9. They are in a sad condition, because they are out of the faith of Christ; they that are
under the law have not the faith of Christ in them; for that dispensation which they are under
is not the administration of faith. The law is not of faith, saith the Apostle (Gal 3:12).

10. Because they have not received the Spirit; for that is received by the hearing of faith,
and not by the law, nor the works thereof (Gal 3:2).

11. In a word, if thou live and die under that covenant, Jesus Christ will neither pray for
thee, neither let thee have one drop of His blood to wash away thy sins, neither shalt thou
be so much as one of the least in the Kingdom of Heaven; for all these privileges come to souls
under another covenant, as the Apostle saith--"For such are not under the law, but under grace"--that
is, such as have a share in the benefits of Jesus Christ, or such as are brought from under
the first covenant into the second; or from under the law into the grace of Christ's Gospel,
without which Covenant of Grace, and being found in that, there is no soul can have the least
hope of eternal life, no joy in the Holy Ghost, no share in the privileges of saints, because
they are tied up from them by the limits and bonds of the Covenant of Works. For you must understand
that these two covenants have their several bounds and limitations, for the ruling and keeping
in subjection, or giving of freedom, to the parties under the said covenants. Now they that
are under the law are within the compass and the jurisdiction of that, and are bound to be
in subjection to that; and living and dying under that, they must stand and fall to that, as
Paul saith, "To his own master he standeth or falleth." The Covenant of Grace doth admit to
those that are under it also liberty and freedom, together with commanding of subjection to
the things contained in it, which I shall speak to further hereafter. Less But
it was clear that the king is not for special reasons an exceptional individual dispensation could approve.
Jacob therefore first sought after by the courts of common law to gain the recognition that he possessed
at least the dispensing power in this scale.

    

[Note 81: + London Gazette, May 13 1685th +]

[Removal of recalcitrant judges.] But despite his claims compared to those who it a few months later,
were moderately, but soon he saw that he was the opinion of nearly Westminster Hall was quite
against it. Four of the judges gave him to understand that they could serve in this case not
to his wishes, and it is remarkable that all four violent Tories were, and that men were among
them, which at its bloody Jeffreys Round trip and accompanied the execution of Elizabeth's
and Cornish had voted Gaunt. Jones, the Chief Justice of Common Pleas, a man who has never before
any one, though no matter how cruel and servile Beihülfe was shrunk, leading now in the royal cabinet
a language, that the lips of the most pristine magistrates of our history is not would be ashamed.
It was explained to him in a nutshell, his view that he either or must give up his place. "At
my place," he replied, "is my little located. I'm in the service of the crown become old and weak,
but I see to my deep sorrow, Your Majesty that I think is better able to express an opinion
that only an ignorant or make a dishonest man could. "-" I am convinced, "said the king,"
that I was twelve Judges think that in this matter are entirely of my mind. "-" Twelve judges
or Sense may well find your majesty, "replied Jones, 'difficult but twelve legal scholars [82]." He was
together with Montague, the first Baron of the Exchequer, and two younger judges, Neville and
Charlton, fired. One of the new judges was Christopher Milton, the younger brother of the great
poet. We know this from Chris Milton little more than that he during the Civil War been a royalist and
was now in his old age inclining to popery. It is not proved that he was ever fully reconciled
with the Roman church, but certainly it is that He hesitated to join the Anglican Church,
which is why he has a strong interest to the maintenance of the dispensing power had [83].

The King found his counsel as refractory as his judges. The first lawyer who learned that you expect
from him the defense of the dispensing power was the Prosecutor Heneage Finch. He refused
and was decided on the following day his Office horrified [84]. The Fiscal General Sawyer was ordered
to make out full power, strength whose members are the Roman church benefices held, which allowed
the Church of England included. Sawyer was with some of the toughest and least justifiable persecution
at that time been concerned strong, and the Whigs abhorred him as a man, who had been stained with
the blood of Russell's and Sydney's, proved on this occasion but he has no lack of integrity
or character strength. "Sire," he said, "this does not mean only dispense of a law, but the whole
of the accession of Queen Elizabeth to this day have compulsory overturn book. I am not allowed
to do and ask your Majesty to consider whether such an attack on the rights of the church the other
day with your gracious Promises in line [85]. "Sawyer would be released almost instantly Finch
have been if the government would have to find a successor for him, but this was not an easy thing.
It was for the protection of the rights of the Crown necessary that at least one its lawyers,
a learned, able and experienced man was, but no such could be ready Available to defend the dispensing
power. The Fiscal General was entitled to his job maintained for several months. Thomas Powis,
an insignificant man, who only by its Servility to such a high post suggested, was appointed Public
Prosecutor.
 And besides, God did so order it that you had me in your houses,
in your Bibles, and also you could speak and talk of me; thus pleading the truth, thou shalt
be forced to confess it is so; nay, it shall be so in some sort with the very Gentiles and
barbarous people that fall far short of that light we have in these parts of the world; for,
saith the Apostle, "The Gentiles which have not the law, do by nature the things contained
in the law, these, having not the law," that is, not written as we have, yet they "are a law
unto themselves: which show the works of the law written in their hearts" (Rom 2:14,15). That
is, they have the law of works in them by nature, and therefore they shall be left without
excuse; for their own consciences shall stand up for the truth of this where he saith, "Their
conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing
one another." Ay, but when? Why, "in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus
Christ according to my Gospel" (Rom 2:15,16). So this, I say, is another end for which the
Lord did give the law--namely, that God might pass a sentence in righteousness, without being
charged with any injustice by those that shall fall under it in the judgment.

Fourth, A fourth end why the Lord did give the law it was, because they that die out of Jesus
Christ might not only have their mouths stopped, but also that their persons "might become
guilty before God" (Rom 3:19). And indeed this will be the ground of silencing, as I said before,
they finding themselves guilty, their consciences backing the truth of the judgment of God
passed upon them, "they shall become guilty"--that is, they shall be fit vessels for the wrath
of God to be poured out into, being filled with guilt by reason of transgressions against the
commandments; thus, therefore, shall the parties under the first covenant be "fitted to destruction"
(Rom 9:22) even as wood or straw, being well dried, is fitted for the fire; and the law was
added and given, and speaks to this very end, that sins might be shown, mouths might be stopped
from quarreling, and that "all the world," mark, "the world may become guilty before God,"
and so be in justice for ever and ever overthrown because of their sins.

And this will be so for these reasons--

1. Because God hath a time to magnify His justice and holiness, as well as to show His forbearance
and mercy. We read in Scripture that His eyes are too pure to behold iniquity, and then we
shall find it true (Hab 1:13). We read in Scripture that He will magnify the law, and make
it honourable, and then He will do it indeed. Now, because the Lord doth not strike so soon
as He is provoked by sin, therefore poor souls will not know nor regard the justice of God,
neither do they consider the time in which it must be advanced, which will be when men drop
under the wrath of God as fast as hail in a mighty storm (2 Peter 3:9; Psa 50:21,22). Now,
therefore, look to it all you that count the long-suffering and forbearance of God slackness;
and because for the present He keepeth silence, therefore to think that He is like unto yourselves.
No, no; but know that God hath His set time for every purpose of His, and in its time it shall
be advanced most marvelously, to the everlasting astonishment and overthrow of that soul that
shall be dealt withal by justice and the law. O! how will God advance His justice! O! how will
God advance His holiness! First, by showing men that He in justice cannot, will not regard
them, because they have sinned; and, secondly, in that His holiness will not give way for such
unclean wretches to abide in His sight, His eyes are so pure.

2. Because God will make it appear that He will be as good as His Word to sinners. Sinners
must not look to escape always, though they may escape awhile, yet they shall not go far all
adoe unpunished; no, but they shall have their due to a farthing, when every threatening and
curse shall be accomplished and fulfilled on the head of the transgressor. Friend, there is
never an idle word that thou speakest but God will account with thee for it; there is never
a lie thou tellest, but God will reckon with thee for it; nay, there shall not pass so much
as one passage in all thy lifetime but God, the righteous God, will have it in the trial by
His law, if thou die under it, in the judgment-day.

[WHO THE ARE THAT ARE UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS.]

THIRD. But you will say--"But who are those that are thus under the law?"

Answ. Those that are under the law may be branched out into three ranks of men; either, first,
such as are grossly profane, or such as are more refined; which may be two ways, some in a
lower sort, and some in a more eminent way.

First, Then they are under the law as a Covenant of Works who are open profane, and ungodly
wretches, such as delight not only in sin, but also make their boast of the same, and brag
at the thoughts of committing of it. These are one sort of people that are under the law, and
so under the curse of the same, whose due is to drink up the brimful cup of God's eternal vengeance,
and therefore I beseech you not to deceive yourselves; for "know ye not that the unrighteous
shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Poor souls, you think that you may have your sins, your
lusts, and pleasures, and yet you shall do pretty well, and be let to go free in the judgment-day;
but see what God saith of such in Deuteronomy 29:19, 20--which shall "bless himself in his
heart, saying, I shall have peace," I shall be saved, I shall do as well as others, in the
day when God shall judge the world by Jesus Christ; but, saith God, I will not spare them,
no, but My anger and My jealousy shall smoke against them. How far? Even to the executing all
the curses that are written in the Law of God upon them. Nay, saith God, I will be even with
them, "for I will blot out their names from under Heaven." And indeed it must of necessity
be so, because such souls are unbelievers, in their sins, and under the law, which cannot,
will not, show any mercy on them; for it is not the administration of mercy and life, but the
administration of death and destruction, as you have it (2 Cor 3:7,9); and all those, every
one of them, that are open profane, and scandalous wretches are under it, and have been so
ever since they came into the world to this day; and they will for certain live and die under
the same dispensation, and then be damned to all eternity, if they be not converted from under
that covenant into and under the Covenant of Grace, of which I shall speak in its place; and
yet for all this, how brag and crank 6 are our poor wantons and wicked ones in this day of
forbearance! as if God would never have a reckoning with them, as if there was no law to condemn
them, as if there was no hellfire to put them into. But O how will they be deceived when they
shall see Christ sitting upon the judgment-seat, having laid aside his priestly and prophetical
office, and appearing only as a judge to the wicked? when they shall see all the records of
Heaven unfolded and laid open; when they shall see each man his name in the Book of Life, and
in the book of the law; when they shall see God in His majesty, Christ in His majesty, the
saints in their dignity, but themselves in their impurity. What will they say then? whither
will they fly then? where will they leave their glory? O sad state! (Isa 10:3).

Second. They are under the law also who do not only so break and disobey the law, but follow
after the law as hard as ever they can, seeking justification thereby--that is, though a man
should abstain from the sins against the law, and labour to fulfill the law, and give up himself
to the law, yet if he look no further than the law he is still under the law, and for all his
obedience to the law, the righteous Law of God, he shall be destroyed by that law. Friend,
you must not understand that none but profane persons are under the law; no, but you must understand
that a man may be turned from a vain, loose, open, profane conversation and sinning against
the law, to a holy, righteous, religious life, and yet be in the same state, under the same
law, and as sure to be damned as the other that are more profane and loose. And though you
may say this is very strange, yet I shall both say it and prove it to be true. Read with understanding
that Scripture in Romans 9:30-31, where the Apostle, speaking of the very thing, saith, "But
Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness"; mark, that followed after the law of
righteousness; they notwithstanding their earnest pursuit, or hunting after the law of righteousness,
"hath not attained to the law of righteousness." It signifies thus much to us, that let a man
be never so earnest, so fervent, so restless, so serious, so ready, so apt and willing to follow
the law and the righteousness thereof, if he be under that covenant, he is gone, he is lost,
he is deprived of eternal life, because he is not under the ministration of life if he die
there. Read also that Scripture, Galatians 3:10, which saith, "For as many as are of the works
of the law are under the curse"; mark, they that are of the works of the law. Now, for to be
of the works of the law, it is to be of the works of the righteousness thereof--that is, to
abstain from sins against the law, and to do the commands thereof as near as ever they can
for their lives, or with all the might they have: and therefore I beseech you to consider it,
for men's being ignorant of this is the cause why so many go on supposing they have a share
in Christ, because they are reformed, and abstain from the sins against the law, who, when
all comes to all, will be damned notwithstanding, because they are not brought out from under
the Covenant of Works, and put under the Covenant of Grace.

Object. "But can you in very deed make these things manifestly evident from the Word of God?
Methinks to reason thus is very strange, that a man should labour to walk up according to the
Law of God as much as ever he can, and yet that man notwithstanding this, should be still under
the curse. Pray clear it."

Answ. Truly this doth seem very strange, I do know full well, to the natural man, to him that
is yet in his unbelief, because he goeth by beguiled reason; but for my part, I do know it
is so, and shall labour also to convince thee of the truth of the same.

1. Then, the law is thus strict and severe, that if a man do sin but once against it, he, I
say, is gone for ever by the law, living and dying under that covenant. If you would be satisfied
as touching the truth of this, do but read Galatians 3:10, where it saith "Cursed is every
one," that is, not a man shall miss by that covenant, "that continueth not in all," mark, in
all "things which are written in the book of the law to do them." (1.) Pray mark, here is a
curse, in the first place, if all things written in the book of the law be not done, and that,
continually too--that is, without any failing or one slip, as I said before. Now there is never
a one in the world but before they did begin to yield obedience to the least command, they
in their own persons did sin against it by breaking of it. The Apostle, methinks, is very notable
for the clearing of this in Romans 3:5. In the one he endeavours for to prove that all had
transgressed in the first Adam as he stood a common person, representing both himself and us
in his standing and falling. "Wherefore," saith he, "as by one man sin entered into the world,
and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men," mark that; but why? "for that all have
sinned" (Rom 5:12). That is, forasmuch as all naturally are guilty of original sin, the sin
that was committed by us in Adam; so this is one cause why none can be justified by their obedience
to the law, because they have in the first place broken it in their first parents. But, (2.)
in case this should be opposed and rejected by quarrelsome persons, though there be no ground
for it, Paul hath another argument to back his doctrine, saying, For we have proved (already)
that both Jews and Gentiles are all under sin. "As it is written, There is none righteous,
no, not one." "They are all gone out of the way, they are together," mark, together, "become
unprofitable, there is none that doeth good, no, not one." "Their throat is an open sepulchre;
with their tongues they have used deceit, the poison of asps is under their lips." Their "mouths
are full of cursing and bitterness." "Their feet are swift to shed blood." In a word, "Destruction
and misery are in their ways; and the way of peace have they not known." So that here, I say,
lieth the ground of our not being justified by the law, even because, in the first place, we
have sinned against it; for know this for certain, that if the law doth take the least advantage
of thee by thy sinning against it, all that ever thou shalt afterwards hear from it is nothing
but Curse, curse, curse him, "for not continuing in all things which are written in the book
of the law to do them."

2. Thou canst not be saved by the righteous Law of God, the first covenant, because that, together
with this thy miserable state, by original and actual sins, before thou didst follow the law,
since thy turning to the law thou hast committed several sins against the law--"In many things
we offend all." So that now thy righteousness to the law being mixed with sometimes the lust
of concupiscence, fornication, covetousness, pride, heart-risings against God, coldness of
affection towards Him, backwardness to good duties, speaking idle words, having of strife in
your hearts, and such like; I say, these things being thus, the righteousness of the law is
become too weak through this our flesh (Rom 8:3), and so, notwithstanding all our obedience
to the law, we are yet through our weakness under the curse of the law; for, as I said before,
the law is so holy, so just, and so good, that it cannot allow that any failing or slip should
be done by them that look for life by the same. "Cursed is every one that continuteth not in
everything" (Gal 3:10). And this Paul knew full well, which made him throw away all his righteousness.
But you will say, that was his own. Answ. But it was even that which while he calls it his
own, he also calls it the righteousness of the law (Phil 3:7-10) and to account it but dung,
but as dirt on his shoes, and that, that he might be found in Christ, and so be saved by Him
"without the deeds of the law" (Rom 3:28). But,

3. Set the case, the righteousness of the law which thou hast was pure and perfect, without
the least flaw or fault, without the least mixture of the least sinful thought, yet this would
fall far short of presenting of thee blameless in the sight of God. And that I prove by these
arguments--(1.) The first argument is, that that which is not Christ cannot redeem souls from
the curse, it cannot completely present them before the Lord; now the law is not Christ; therefore
the moral law cannot, by all our obedience to it, deliver us from the curse that is due to
us (Acts 4:12). (2.) The second argument is, that that righteousness that is not the righteousness
of faith, that is, by believing in Jesus Christ, cannot please God; now the righteousness of
the law as a Covenant of Works is not the righteousness of faith; therefore the righteousness
of the law as acted by us, being under that covenant, cannot please God. The first is proved
in Hebrews 11:6, "But without faith it is impossible to please Him"; mark, it is impossible.
The second thus, "The law is not of faith" (Gal 3:12; Rom 10:5,6), compared with Galatians 3:11.

But for the better understanding of those that are weak of apprehension, I shall prove it thus--1.
The soul that hath eternal life, he must have it by right of purchase or redemption (Heb 9:12;
Eph 1:7). 2. This purchase of redemption must be through the blood of Christ. "We have redemption
through His blood." "Without shedding of blood is no remission." Now the law is not in a capacity
to die, and so to redeem sinners by the purchase of blood, which satisfaction justice calls
for. Read the same Scriptures (Heb 9:22). Justice calls for satisfaction, because thou hast
transgressed and sinned against it, and that must have satisfaction; therefore all that ever
thou canst do cannot bring in redemption, though thou follow the law up the to the nail-head,
as I may say, because all this is not shedding of blood; for believe it, and know it for certain,
that though thou hadst sinned but one sin before thou didst turn to the law, that one sin will
murder thy soul, if it be not washed away by blood, even by the precious blood of Jesus Christ,
that was shed when He did hang upon the cross on Mount Calvary.

Object. But you will say, "Methinks, that giving of ourselves up to live a righteous life should
make God like the better of us, and so let us be saved by Christ, because we are so willing
to obey His law."

Answ. The motive that moveth God to have mercy upon sinners is not because they are willing
to follow the law, but because He is willing to save them. "Not for thy righteousness, or for
the uprighteous of thine heart dost thou go to possess their land" (Deu 9:4-6). Now understand
this: if thy will to do righteousness was the first moving cause why God had mercy on thee
through Christ, then it must not be freely by grace--I say, freely. But the Lord loves thee
and saves thee upon free terms, having nothing beforehand to make Him accept of thy soul, but
only the blood of Christ; therefore to allow of such a principle it is to allow that grace
is to be obtained by the works of the law, which is as gross darkness as lies in the darkest
dungeon in Popery, and is also directly opposite to Scripture--For we are "justified freely
by His grace, through the redemption that is in Christ"; not through the good that is in our
selves, or done by us, no, "but by faith, without"--mark that--"without the deeds of the law"
(Rom 3:24-28). Again, "Not of works, least any man should boast" (Eph 2:9).

Object. But you will say, "Then why did God give the law, if we cannot have salvation by following
of it?"

Answ. I told you before that the law was given for these following reasons--1. That thou mightest
be convinced by it of thy sins, and that thy sins might indeed appear very sinful unto thee,
which is done by the law these ways--(1.) By showing of thee what a holy God He is that did
give the law; and, (2.) By showing thee thy vileness and wickedness, in that thou, contrary
to this holy God, hast transgressed against and broken this His holy Law; therefore, saith
Paul, "the law entered, that the offence might abound," that is, by showing the creature the
holiness of God, and also its own vileness (Rom 5:20). 2. That thou mayest know that God will
not damn thee for nothing in the judgment-day. 3. Because He would have no quarreling at His
just condemning of them at that day. 4. Because He will make thee to know that He is a holy
God and pure.

WHAT MEN MAY ATTAIN TO THAT ARE UNDER THIS COVENANT OF WORKS.

[FOURTH] Quest. "But seeing you have spoken thus far, I wish you would do so much as to show
in some particulars, both what men have done, and how far they have gone, and what they have
received, being yet under this covenant, which you call the ministration of condemnation."

Answ. This is somewhat a difficult question, and had need be not only warily, but also home
and soundly answered. The question consists of three particulars--First, What men have done;
Second, How far men have gone; Third, What they have received, and yet to be under the law,
or Covenant of Works, and so in a state of condemnation.

[First.] As for the first, I have spoken something in general to that already; but for thy
better understanding I shall yet speak more particularly.

1. A man hath and may be convinced and troubled for his sins, and yet be under this covenant,
and that in a very heavy and dreadful manner, insomuch that he find the weight of them to be
intolerable and too heavy for him to bear, as it was with Cain, "My punishment," saith he,
"is greater than I can bear" (Gen 4:13).

2. A man living thus under a sense of his sins may repent and be sorry for them, and yet be
under this covenant, and yet be in a damned state. And when he, Judas, saw what was done, he
"repented" (Matt 27:3).

3. (Exo 10:16, 17).

4. A man may also humble himself for his offences and disobedience against his God, and yet
be under this covenant (1 Kings 21:24-19). If he had his own views after the expedition's work and put in only those Companion taken,
which were ready to obey all his orders strictly, so could he possibly can make something great,
for he seems to be a commander neither have been lacking in courage, yet activity or skill, but
solely and solely on authority. He should have known that of all the defects of this pernicious
is. There have already been victorious armies under the command, which just no outstanding features
possessed. But which army that was commanded by a quarrelsome Clubb, but not more of the Resolution
and escaped disgrace?

The great misfortune, the Argyle affected, had the good that it gave him an opportunity, to show
by unmistakable evidence that what a man he was. From the day on which he Friesland left, had
to be the one where his companions parted from him in Kilpatrick, he can never act freely. He
had the responsibility for a series of measures to have to take that disapproved of his mind.
Now at last he stood alone. Captivity he had the finest kind of play, freedom, in his words and actions
are guided only by his sense of right and decency to leave. From that moment it was as if new wisdom
and virtue would be drawn into it. His mind seemed sharpened and refined, lifted his moral
character and at the same time reduced. The cheeky arrogance of the victors omitted nothing of
what the old to his nobility and his patriarchal Reputation could hurt humble and proud man.
The prisoner was in triumph through Edinburgh towed. He went on foot and bareheaded all the stately street,
which shaded by dark and gigantic stone buildings and, after Holyrood House the castle leads. Before
him, the executioner step with the terrible tools that was used for four parts on the block.
The victorious party had not forgotten that thirty-five years previously posted Argyle's father
at the head of the faction, which Montrose replied to the death. Even before the events were
the houses, and Graham Campbell mutually than not, but since then she had been lying in a bloody
feud constantly. It took trying to ensure that the prisoner went through the same gate and
through the same streets, been through the same fate which Montrose was opposed. The troops, which
accompanied the train were under the command of Claverhouse's, the fiercest and hardest of the
race of Graham. When the Earl had arrived at the castle, his chains were at the feet of him and
forged announced that he had only live a few days. Man had decided not to put him to his final
passing away because of the courts, but it readily to execute in conformity with a number
of years previously against him felled Judgment, a proposition of such outrageous injustice
that even the most servile and insensitive Lawyers could not speak of that terrible time of
it without shame.

But neither the ignominious procession through High Street, even the near prospect of death could Argyle's
noble and majestic calm shake. His firmness was however, found an
even tougher test.

On the orders of the Privy Council it was a paper presented with questions. Of these questions,
he answered those he avoids any risk to not answered by his friends, and refused to say. Then
they told him that if he were not complete answers, he would be put on the rack. Jacob, it certainly
very sorry that he was not personally in Spanish at the sight of the Argyle grazing boots
could, had the measure most commands sent to Edinburgh, that nothing fails should be what the
traitor to reveal any that were concerned in the treason; could be blackmailed. But all threats
were vain. Despite the immediate prospect of torture Mac Callum More death and thought far less of himself
than of his poor clansmen. "I tried it today, "he wrote from his cell," to negotiate for them, and
I had some Hope. But this evening is the command to come, that I must die Monday or Tuesday,
and I should be put to the torture if I do not answer all questions and oath hardening. But I hope God
will sustain me. "

The torture was not applied. Perhaps had the generosity of the victim, the winner moved to an unusual
sympathy. He noticed that she initially been very hard on him were, but soon began to treat
him with respect and kindness. God, he said, has her heart softened.

It is proven that he is not one of his friends betrayed to the to escape the extreme cruelty
of his enemies. On the last morning of his life he wrote the words: "I have no one called to his
disadvantage. I thank God for having me so has received wonderful upright. "

He wrote his own grave writing, a useful and ingenious short poem of simple and vigorous style,
and certainly not bad versification. defendant in these verses He found that, although his
enemies had repeatedly condemned him to death, his friends still
would have been heartless.

A commentary on these comments provide a letter from him to a lady living in the Netherlands.
She had a large sum of money for his Expedition, where he said that it is therefore entitled
to set up a detailed I present the causes which brought about the failure of the same. spoke
of betrayal He released his assistants, their folly, ignorance, and partisanship, but he described
in terms that they, like their own statements later proved justly deserved. It increased after
doubts in him, if he for a dying Christian is not a hard language to have done, and he therefore
asked his friend still on a special leaf that it is the of these men have said should not be
regarded as written. should "Just here I stay" he added mildly, "that they were unmanageable."

The greater part of the few hours he had to live, he brought in prayer and in loving conversation
with some members of his family. He put no remorse over his last company in the day, but complained
of painful sorrow his former Obedience in spiritual matters to the discretion of the government.
He said that his sentence meet whoever as long as the cowardice and
dissimulation was guilty, was not worth The recovery tool for state
and church to be.

The matter, however, he repeated very often, was the cause of God and will surely triumph.
"I do not give me out to be a prophet," he said, "but I have a certain idea that liberation
is near." It can not Surprising that some zealous Presbyterians in this statement and noticed it
a later times ascribed divine inspiration.

Religious faith and hope, combined with natural courage and stoical composure had calmed his mind
so completely that he even on the day on which he was to die, with Appetite for lunch dined
at tables with laughter and then talked, as usual, lay down to sleep a few hours for body and soul
were in full force when He mounted the scaffold. About this time came a Lord of the Privy Council,
which is probably innately Presbyterians and had been tempted only
by considerations of self-interest To leave for the suppression of
the Church, of which he had used them to contribute, with a Message
of his colleagues in the palace and demanded to speak to the Earl.

You answered him that the Earl sleep. The Privy Council considered that this was an empty excuse,
and was out to be admitted. The door of the cell was opened and as the Earl was on the Bed
and slept sweetly in his chains as an innocent child. The Renegades are excited conscience. With contrite
heart he turned away and hurried from the castle and fled to a close next door living lady of
his relatives. Here he threw himself on a Sopha left and the pain of shame and remorse. The
expression of his eyes and his sighs alarmed the lady, she believed he had become suddenly ill,
and asked him to drink a glass of champagne. is "No, no," he replied, "that does not help me."
She asked him now that he wants to tell her what had so moved him. "I was in prison Argyle" he
said, "and I have seen him sleep an hour before the ever so softly, as only a Man can sleep.
But as for me - "

The Earl now rose from his bed, and prepared himself for the final walk. He was first brought the
High Street down to the meeting house of the Privy Council, where he short time should stay
until his execution. During this last period, he asked to pen and wrote to his wife: "Dear wife,
God is immutable. He is always kind and gracious to me and not been able to change this. Forgive
me all my mistakes and seek comfort in Him alone to see the the true consolation. The Lord
be with you He bless and comfort you. Good-bye. "

[Argyle's execution.] It is now time, the house was left of the Privy
council.

The clergy, which accompanied the prisoners were not of his faith, but he heard them like , and
exhorted them to warn their congregations against those teachings that all Protestant Churches
unanimously condemned. He mounted the scaffold, where the old crude guillotine Scotland called
the Virgin, waiting for him, and gave a speech to the people, with the peculiar Phrases of his
sect was interwoven, but the spirit of true piety breathed. He said he forgives his enemies,
he hoped that he would be forgiven. Only a bitter expression escaped him. One of the Episcopal
priest who accompanied him, took the edge of the scaffold and cried
with a loud voice.

"My lord died as a Protestant -" Yes, "said Earl of advancing, "and not only as a Protestant, but with
the hatred of Popery, prelacy and every superstition in the heart "-. Then he hugged his friends,
gave them some characters the memory of his wife and his children knelt down, laid his head on the
block prayed for a while and finally gave the executioner the sign. His head was on the tip put the
Tolbooth, where formerly Montrose's head was decomposed [33].

[Note 33: The writer, the story of which I Argyle's expedition had borrowed are Sir Patrick Hume,
who as Eyewitness speaks and Wodrow, the most valuable materials, including the Earl's own papers,
stood at his command. Where Argyle's or Hume's credibility comes into question, since doubt
I'm not that Argyle's story is the correct one. See also I. Burnet 631 and Bresson's life, edited by
Dr. + + Mac Crie. The story of the Scottish rebellion in Clarke's + Life of James the Second + is
a ridiculous novel, written by a Jacobite, who did not even bother, a map to see the theater of
war.]

    [Rumbold's execution.] The head of the brave and sincere, though
    not perfect free Rumbold was already plugged in the western gates
    of Edinburgh. Surrounded by the party seeking and cowardly allies,
    he had throughout the campaign as one in the school of large
    Protectors educated soldier shown in the council had the authority
    Argyle's strong supported and distinguished themselves in the
    field of peaceful fearlessness. After the Army dispersed, he was attacked
    by a detachment of militia. He defended himself with desperate Bravery,
    and would have also beaten, was it not his horse fetters cut. mortally
    wounded, he was taken to Edinburgh. The government would have liked
    be executed in England, but he was so close to death that if he is
not in Scotland hanged, he was not able to be hung, and fun to hang
him, wanted the winner does not dismiss.

It could not but expect them against a man which was considered the head of the Ryehousecomplots
and owner of the house was in which this plot was named to exercise special clemency would,
but the recklessness, with which they treated the dying, our more humane age must appear almost
incredible. One of the Scottish privy to him said he was a damned scoundrel. "I am at peace
with God, "replied Rumbold calmly," how can I be damned? "

He was all speed put on trial, convicted and sentenced, after a few hours be hung near the town
of Cross in High Street and quartered too. Although he are not without the support of two men,
could he saved but his fortitude until the last moment, and acting under the gallows, his weak
voice against Popery and tyranny with such violence that the officers could beat the drums, so
that the People could not hear him. He said he was a friend of the limited monarchy, but he could
never believe that Providence a few people ready booted and spurred to ride, and millions ready
saddled and bridled to be ridden, sent into the world have. "I commend and praise God's holy name" for
it, he exclaimed, "that I am not here because of a begangnen wrong, but because I stayed true to his
cause in a bad time am. And would any hair on my head, man, I would be all in this struggle because
. Set "

During the investigation, both still in execution, he spoke of the assassination of the horror
that befits a good Christian and a brave soldier. He protested to the Word of the death of decayed
man that he had never entertained the idea of ​​such an abomination to commit. But he openly
admitted that he talks to his fellow conspirators, his own House had described as a place where
Charles and Jacob could be attacked with advantage, and that, although much debattirt about
the matter, but nothing had been decided. It may on first sight seem as if this confession with his
statement that he assassination I always hated, would be incompatible, but he settled here,
by distinguishing , Which fooled many of his contemporaries led astray. Nothing had been able to
encourage him to throw in the food of the two princes, poison or stab them in their sleep, but a to
make unexpectedly attack on the royal bodyguards surrounding cars, sword blows and to change gun
shots and make it depend on whether you kill or killed would be,
this was in his eyes, a very loyal military operation.

Ambush and surprise attacks were among the ordinary incidents of a war. Every old soldier,
Cavalier or Roundhead, had been implicated in such enterprises. Feel the King the battle, he
fell in honorable battle, and not by hand of an assassin. Exactly the same reasoning established after
the revolution Jacob himself and his bravest and most devoted followers, a nefarious plot against
the life of William III. be justified. A squad Jacobite was sent to attack the Prince of Orange
in his winter quarters. The Secret Sense of this very innocuous-sounding phrase was that the
prince on the way from Richmond to Kensington's throat should be cut off. It may seem remarkable,
that such fallacies, the yeast of Jesuit casuistry, have been able men of heroic character, both
Whigs than Tories, to be led to commit a crime, which the divine and human laws especially the
stamp of infamy pressed have. But no sophistry is so clumsy that he does not minds, which blinded
by party spirit are deluded, could [34].

Argyle, which Rumbold survived several hours, gave shortly before his death, a testimony for the
virtues of the gallant Englishman. "Poor Rumbold was a great support and a good man, and he
is Christian died. "[35]

[Note 34: + Wodrow III. IX. 10 +; Western Martyrology + +; + Barnet, I. 633 +, + Fox's History,
Appendix IV + I am unable to no other than the manner indicated in the text Rumbold's Assurance
that he had never entertained the thought of a murder with his confession that he himself to his
house as a known attack on the royal brothers have fit in to bring harmony. The distinction,
which I attribute to him, was also made by a Ryehouseverschwornen Andren, the Captain Walcot,
also a former soldier of the Republic. At Walcot's interrogation asked the witness: "You have
admitted Captain, that you were one of those who against the Garden should fight. "-" For what reason
did he want, but the King not to kill? "then asked the Chief Justice Pemberton. "He said," replied
West, "it was wicked, a defenseless to kill people, and that he could not. "]

[Note 35: + Wodrow III. IX. 9 +]

[Ayloffe's death.] Ayloffe was no less a defiance of death as Argyle
and Rumbold, only was an end to pious minds not as edifying as theirs.

    Although political sympathy it attracted to the Puritans, so
    he had no sympathy for them, and religious was in their eyes for
    a little better than an atheist. He belonged to that part
    of the Whigs, of his models rather among the patriots of Greece
    and Rome, as the prophets and judges of Israel was looking
    for. He was captured and taken to Glasgow. Attempted here he,
    to eviscerate with a small penknife, but although he was more wounds
    taught, but none of them was fatal, and he still had strength enough
    to travel to London unbearable. He was placed before the Privy Council
    and the King put on trial and was but high-minded than that he
    should have been saved through denounce the other. The Whigs it
    was said that the king had said to him: "You thätet better if your
    open to If you were me, Mr. Ayloffe;. Do you know that it is in my
    power to pardon you, "The Prisoner should then be gloomy silence
    broken and have responded.

    "In your power it may be, but it is not in your character.

"He was in conformity with his earlier Ächtungsurtheils at the gate of the temple was executed,
and died with stoic equanimity. [36]

[Note 36: + Wade's Narrative, Harl. MS. 6845 +; + Burnet I. 634 +; Citters's dispatch of 30 Oct.
(9th Nov) 1685; + Luttrell's Diary + of the same date.]

[Devastation of Argyleshire.] Meanwhile, the winners exercised a ruthless revenge on the People
of Argyleshire. Athol Campbell left many hanging without judicial inquiry and only with difficulty
that he was prevented by the Privy Council, to sacrifice even more lives. Thirty miles in circumference
of Inverary devastated the country. Houses were set on fire, Millstones crushed, fruit trees
cut down and burned even the same rootstock. The networks and Fischerböte, the only means by which
many of the coastal people earned their livelihood were destroyed and more than three hundred
rebels and malcontents transported to the colonies. Many of them were condemned to mutilation also.
On a single day average of the hangman of Edinburgh thirty-five prisoner's ears from, a lot of
women were sent across the Atlantic, after being with a had red-hot
iron branded on the cheek.

    [37] It even went with the plan in order of to ask the parliament
    an act by which the name of Campbell should be banned, eighty years
    earlier as the name MacGregor was proscribed.

Argyle's company had made in the south of the island little attention. The news of his Landing
came just before the meeting of the British Parliament in London. The King mentioned the matter
in the throne speech, and the houses assured him that they face every Enemy would stand by him.
More was not required of them. About Scotland they had no violence, and war, the scene of
so far and the output of almost the start was easy to foresee, in London attracted little interest.

[Note
37: + Wodrow III. IX. 4 +, and + III. IX. 10 + Wodrow performs the acts of the privy council,
the names of all the Prisoners, which transported, mutilated or branded were.]

[Unsuccessful attempts to prevent Monmouth's departure from Holland.] But a week before the
eventual dispersal of Argyle's army was shattered by the news all over England, that a far more
suitable to-do man in fear of hostile intent on the coast landed was.

 But do not mistake me; I do not say we should slight any holy duties; God
forbid; but I say, he that doth look for life because he doth do good duties, he is under the
Covenant of Works, the law; let his duties be never so eminent, so often, so fervent, so zealous.
Ay, and I say, as I said before, that if any man or men, or multitudes of people, do get into
never so high, so eminent; and clear practices and Gospel order, as to church discipline, if
it be done to this end I have been speaking of, from this principle, they must and shall have
these sad things fall to their share which I have made mention of.

Object. But, you will say, can a man use Gospel ordinances with a legal spirit?

Answ. Yes, as easily as the Jews could use and practise circumcision, though not the moral
or Ten Commandments. For this I shall be bold to affirm, that it is not the commands of the
New Testament administration that can keep a man from using of its self [that administration]
in a legal spirit; for know this for certain, that it is the principle, not the command, that
makes the subjector to the same either legal or evangelical, and so his obedience from that
command to be from legal convictions or evangelical principles.

Now, herein the devil is wondrous subtle and crafty, in suffering people to practise the ordinances
and commands of the Gospel, if they do but do them in a legal spirit, [I beseech you, do not
think because I say this, therefore I am against the ordinances of the Gospel, for I do honour
them in their places, yet would not that any of them should be idolized, or done in a wrong
spirit,] from a spirit of works; for he knows then, that if he can but get the soul to go on
in such a spirit, though they do never so many duties, he shall hold them sure enough; for
he knows full well that thereby they do set up something in the room of, or, at the least,
to have some, though but a little, share with the Lord Jesus Christ in their salvation; and
if he can but get thee here, he knows that he shall cause thee by thy depending a little upon
the one, and so thy whole dependence being not upon the other, that is, Christ, and taking
of him upon his own terms, thou wilt fall short of life by Christ, though thou do very much
busy thyself in a suitable walking, in an outward conformity to the several commands of the
Lord Jesus Christ. And let me tell you plainly, that I do verily believe that as Satan by his
instruments did draw many of the Galatians by circumcision (though, I say, it was none of the
commands of the moral law) to be debtors to do upon pain of eternal damnation the whole of
the moral law, so also Satan, in the time of the Gospel, doth use even the commands laid down
in the Gospel, some of them, to bind the soul over to do the same law; the thing being done
and walked in, by and in the spirit; for, as I said before, it is not the obedience to the
command that makes the subjector thereto evangelical, or of a Gospel spirit; but, contrariwise,
the principle that leads out the soul to the doing of the command, that makes the persons that
do thus practise any command, together with the command by them practised, either legal or
evangelical. As, for instance, prayer--it is a Gospel command; yet if he that prays doth it
in a legal spirit, he doth make that which in itself is a Gospel command an occasion of leading
him into a Covenant of Works, inasmuch as he doth it by and in that old covenant spirit.

Again; giving of alms is a Gospel command; yet if I do give alms from a legal principle, the
command to me is not Gospel, but legal, and it binds me over, as aforesaid, to do the whole
law--"For he is not a Jew," nor a Christian, "which is one outwardly"--that is, one only by
an outward subjection to the ordinances of prayer, hearing, reading, baptism, breaking of bread,
etc.--"But he is a Jew," a Christian, "which is one inwardly," who is rightly principled, and
practiseth the ordinances of the Lord from the leadings forth of the Spirit of the Lord, from
a true and saving faith in the Lord (Rom 2:28,29). Those men spoken of in the 7th of Matthew,
for certain, for all their great declaration, did not do what they did from a right Gospel
spirit; for had they, no question but the Lord would have said, "Well done, good and faithful
servant." But in that the Lord Jesus doth turn them away into Hell, notwithstanding their great
profession of the Lord, and of their doing in His name, it is evident that notwithstanding
all that they did do, they were still under the law, and not under that covenant as true believers
are--to wit, the Covenant of Grace; and if so, then all their duties that they did, of which
they boasted before the Lord, was not in and by a right evangelical principle or spirit.

Again, saith the Apostle, "Whatsoever is not of faith is sin," (Rom 14:23); but there are some
that do even practise baptism, breaking of bread, together with other ordinances, and yet are
unbelievers; therefore unbelievers doing these things, they are not done in faith but sin.
Now to do these things in sin, or without faith, it is not to do things in an evangelical or
Gospel spirit; also they that do these things in a legal spirit, the very practising of them
renders them not under the law of Christ, as Head of His Church, but the works they do are
so much contradiction to the Gospel of God, or the Covenant of Grace, that they that do them
thus do even set up against the Covenant of Grace; and the very performance of them is of such
force that it is sufficient to drown them that are subjects thereunto, even under the Covenant
of Works; but this poor souls are not aware of, and there is their misery.

Quest. But have you no other way to discover the things of the Gospel, how they are done with
a legal principle, but those you have already made mention of?

Answ. That thou mightest be indeed satisfied herein, I shall show you the very manner and way
that a legal, or old-covenant-converted professor, bear with the terms, doth take both in the
beginning, middle, and the end of his doing of any duty or command, or whatsoever it be that
he doth do. 1. He thinking this or that to be his duty, and considering of the same, he is
also presently persuaded in his own conscience that God will not accept of him if he leave
it undone; he seeing that he is short of his duty, as he supposeth, while this is undone by
him, and also judging that God is angry with him until the thing be done, he, in the second
place, sets to the doing of the duty, to the end he may be able to pacify his conscience by
doing of the same, persuading of himself that now the Lord is pleased with him for doing of
it. 2. Having done it, he contents himself, sits down at his ease, until some further convictions
of his duty to be done, which when he seeth and knoweth, he doth do it as aforesaid, from the
same principle as he did the former, and so goeth on in his progress of profession. This is
to do things from a legal principle, and from an old-covenant spirit; for thus runs that covenant,
"The man that doth these things shall live in them," of "by them" (Lev 18:5; Gal 3:12; Rom
10:5). But more of this in the use of this doctrine.

Object. But, you will say, by these words of yours you do seem to deny that there are conditional
promises in the Gospel, as is clear, in that you strike at such practices as are conditional,
and commanded to be done upon the same.

Answ. The thing that I strike at is this, that a man in or with a legal spirit should not,
nay, cannot, do any conditional command of the Gospel acceptably, as to his eternal state,
because he doth it in an old-covenant spirit. "No man putteth new wine into old bottles"; but
new wine must have new bottles, a Gospel command must have a Gospel spirit, or else the wine
will break the bottles, or the principle will break the command.

Object. Then you do grant that there are conditional promises in the New Testament, as in the
moral law, or Ten Commands.

Answ. Though this be true, yet the conditional promises in the New Testament do not call to
the same people in the same state of unregeneracy to fulfill them upon the same conditions.

The Law and the Gospel being two distinct covenants, they are made in divers ways, and the
nature of the conditions also being not the same, as saith the Apostle, the righteousness of
the law saith one thing, and the righteousness of faith saith another (Rom 10:4-6). That is,
the great condition in the law is, If you do these things, you shall live by them; but the
condition, even the greatest condition laid down for a poor soul to do, as to salvation--for
it is that we speak of--is to believe that my sins be forgiven me for Jesus Christ's sake,
without the works or righteousness of the law, on my part, to help forward. "To him that worketh
not," saith the Apostle [that is] for salvation, "but believeth on Him that justifieth the
ungodly, his faith"--mark, "his faith is counted for righteousness" (Rom 4:5). So that we,
saith, he, "conclude that a man is justified by faith without"--mark again, "without the deeds
of the law" (Rom 3:28).

But again; there is never a condition in the Gospel that can be fulfilled by an unbeliever;
and therefore, whether there be conditions or whether there be none, it makes no matter to
thee who art without the faith of Christ; for it is impossible for thee in that state to do
them, so as to be ever the better as to thy eternal estate; therefore, lest thou shouldst split
thy soul upon the conditions laid down in the Gospel, as thou wilt do if thou go about to do
them only with a legal spirit; but, I say, to prevent this, see if thou canst fulfill the first
condition; that is, to believe that all thy sins are forgiven thee, not for any condition that
hath been or can be done by thee, but merely for the Man's sake that did hang on Mount Calvary,
between two thieves, some sixteen hundred years ago and odd. This led a fierce polemic cause. Whig
and Tory disputants fought fiercely over a dark place in Gregory of Nazianzus praises a pious bishop
who was about to beat someone. The Whigs claimed that the holy man had wanted to beat the Kaiser,
who said Tories he had it apart more than a captain of the guard. Johnson then wrote a Reply
to his attackers, in which he carried out a very clever parallel between Julian and Jacob, who
was then Duke of York went. Julian had several years made as though he detested the idolatry,
while in the hearts of even an idolater was. Julian had when it suited his interest, occasional
respect for the rights Convinced simulating. Julian had cities, which have been approved than
the true religion sincerely were punished by confiscation of their Municipalfreiheiten. And
Julian was of his flatterers The just been mentioned. Jacob felt insulted. Johnson was a lampooner
pursued, found guilty and sentenced to a fine that he could not pay. He was locked up and therefore
it was quite the impression as if his detention only with his life will end. [115]

[Note 115: See Johnson's memoirs as an introduction to the Folio edition of his autobiography,
his "Julian" and his responses to his opponents.

     So we believe, and
therefore do (2 Cor 4:13). Take heed, therefore, that you do not DO, that you may believe,
but rather believe so effectually that you may DO, even all that Jesus doth require of you
from a right principle, even out of love to your dear Lord Jesus Christ, which thing I shall
speak to more fully by and by.

Object. But what do you mean by those expressions? Do not do that you may believe, but believe
so effectually that you may do.

Answ. When I say, Do not do that you may believe, I mean, do not think that any of the things
that thou canst do will procure or purchase faith from God unto thy soul; for that is still
the old-covenant spirit, the spirit of the law, to think to have it for thy doing. They that
are saved, they are saved by grace, through faith, and that not of themselves, not for anything
that they can do, for they are both the free gift of God, "Not of" doing, or of "works, lest
any man should," be proud, and "boast" (Eph 2:8,9). Now, some people be so ignorant as to think
that God will give them Christ, and so all the merits of His, if they will be but valiant,
and do something to please God, that they may obtain Him at His hands; but let me tell them,
they may lose a thousand souls quickly, if they had so many, by going this way to work, and
yet be never the better; for the Lord doth not give His Christ to any upon such conditions,
but He doth give Him freely; that is, without having respect to anything that is in thee (Rev
22:17; Isa 55:1,2). To him that is athirst will I give; He doth not say, I will sell; but,
I will give him the water of life freely (Rev 21:6).

Now, if Christ doth give it, and that freely, then He doth not sell if for anything that is
in the creature; but Christ doth give Himself, as also doth His Father, and that freely, not
because there is anything in us, or done by us, that moves Him thereunto. If it were by doing,
then, saith Paul, "Grace is not grace," seeing it is obtained by works; but grace is grace,
and that is the reason it is given to men without their works. And if it be by grace, that
is, if it be a free gift from God, without anything foreseen as done, or to be done, by the
creature, then it is not of works, which is clear; therefore it is grace, without the works
of the law. But if you say, Nay, it is of something in the man done by him that moves God thereunto;
then you must conclude that either grace is no grace, or else that works are grace and not
works. Do but read with understanding (Rom 11:6).

Now before I go any further, it may be necessary to speak a word or two to some poor souls
that are willing to close in with Jesus Christ, and would willingly take Him upon His own terms,
only they being muddy in their minds, and have not yet attained the understanding of the terms
and conditions of the two covenants, they are kept off from closing with Christ; and all is,
because they see they can do nothing [to merit His favour]. As, for example, come to some souls,
and ask them how they do, they will tell you presently that they are so bad that it is not
to be expressed. If you bid them believe in Jesus Christ, they will answer that they cannot
believe; if you ask them why they cannot believe, they will answer, because their hearts are
so hard, so dead, so dull, so backward to good duties; and if their hearts were but better,
if they were more earnest, if they could pray better, and keep their hearts more from running
after sin, then they could believe; but should they believe with such vile hearts, and presume
to believe in Christ, and be so filthy? Now all this is because the spirit of the law still
ruleth in such souls, and blinds them so that they cannot see the terms of the Gospel. To clear
this, take the substance or the drift of these poor souls, which is this--"If I were better,
then I think I could believe; but being so bad as I am, that is the reason that I cannot."
This is just to do something that I may believe, to work that I may have Christ, to do the
law that I may have the Gospel; or thus, to be righteous that I may come to Christ. O man!
thou must go quite back again, thou art out of the way, thou must believe, because thou canst
not pray, because thou canst not do; thou must believe, because there is nothing in thee naturally
that is good, or desireth after good, or else thou wilt never come to Christ as a sinner; and
if so, then Christ will not receive thee; and if so, then thou mayest see that to keep off
from Christ because thou canst not do, is to be kept from Christ by the law, and to stand off
from Him because thou canst not buy Him. Thus having spoken something by the way for the direction
of those souls that would come to Christ, I shall return to the former discourse, wherein ariseth
this objection--

Object. But you did but even now put souls upon fulfilling the first condition of the Gospel,
even to believe in Christ, and so be saved; but now you say it is alone by grace, without condition;
and therefore by these words, there is first a contradiction to your former sayings, and also
that men may be saved without the condition of faith, which to me seems a very strange thing.
I desire, therefore, that you would clear out what you have said, to my satisfaction.

Answer, 1. Though there be a condition commanded in the Gospel, yet He that commands the condition
doth not leave His children to their own natural abilities, that in their own strength they
should fulfill them, as the law doth; but the same God that doth command that the condition
be fulfilled, even He doth help His children by His Holy Spirit to fulfill the same condition;
"For it is God which worketh in you,"--mark "in you," believers, "both to will and to do of
His own good pleasure" (Phil 2:13). "Thou also hast wrought all our works in us, and for us"
(Isa 26:12). So that, if the condition be fulfilled, it is not done by the ability of the creature.
But,

2. Faith, as it is a gift of God, or an act of ours, take it which way you will, if we speak
properly of salvation, it is not the first nor the second cause of our salvation, but the third,
and that but instrumentally neither--that is, it only layeth hold of and applieth to us that
which saveth us, which is the love of God, through the merits of Christ, which are the two
main causes of our salvation, without which all other things are nothing, whether it be faith,
hope, love, or whatever can be done by us. And to this the great Apostle of the Gentiles speaks
fully, for, saith he, "God, who is rich in mercy, loved us, even when we were dead in sins"
(Eph 2:4,5). That is, when we were without faith, and that was the cause why we believed for
He thereby hath quickened us together, through the meritorious cause, which is Christ, and
so hath saved us by grace--that is, of His own voluntary love and good will; the effect of
which was this, He gave us faith to believe in Christ. Read soberly Ephesians 2:4-8. Faith,
as the gift of God, is not the Saviour, as our act doth merit nothing; faith was not the cause
that God gave Christ as the first, neither is it the cause why God converts men to Christ;
but faith is a gift bestowed upon us by the gracious God, the nature of which is to lay hold
on Christ, that God afore did give for a ransom to redeem sinners; this faith hath its nourishment
and supplies from the same God that at the first did give it, and is the only instrument, through
the Spirit, that doth keep the soul in a comfortable frame, both to do and suffer for Christ;
helps the soul to receive comfort from Christ when it can get none from itself, beareth up
the soul in its progress heavenwards. But that it is the first cause of salvation, that I deny,
or that it is the second, I deny; but it is only the instrument, or hand, that receiveth the
benefits, that God hath prepared for thee before thou hadst any faith; so that we do nothing
for salvation as we are men. But if we speak properly, it was God's grace that moved Him to
give Christ a ransom for sinners; and the same God, with the same grace, that doth give to
the soul faith to believe, and so, by believing, to close in with Him whom God out of His love
and pity did send into the world to save sinners, so that all the works of the creature are
shut out as to justification and life, and men are saved freely by grace. I shall speak no
more here; but in my discourse upon the second covenant, I shall answer a Hell-bred objection
or two, to forewarn sinners how they turn the grace of God into wantonness.

And thus, you see, I have briefly spoken to you something touching the law. First, what it
is, and when given; secondly, how sad those men's conditions are that are under it; thirdly,
who they are that be under it; fourthly, how far they may go, and what they may do and receive,
and yet be under it; which hath been done by way of answers to several questions, for the better
satisfaction of those that may stand in doubt of the truth of what hath been delivered.

Now, in the next place, I shall come to some application of the truth of that which hath been
spoken; but I shall in the first place speak something to the second doctrine, and then afterwards
I shall speak something by way of use and application to this first doctrine.

[DOCTRINE SECOND.]

The second doctrine now to be spoken to is, TO SHOW THAT THE PEOPLE OF GOD ARE NOT UNDER THE
LAW BUT UNDER GRACE--"For ye are not under the law, but under grace" (Rom 6:14).

You may well remember that from these words I did observe these two great truths of the Lord--FIRST,
That there are some in Gospel times that are under the law, or Covenant of Works. SECOND, That
there is never a believer under the law, or Covenant of Works, but under grace. I have spoken
something to the former of these truths--to wit, that there are some under the law, together
with who they are, and what their condition is, that are under it. Now I am to speak to the
second, and to show you who they are, and what their condition is, that are under that [Covenant
of Grace].

But before I come to that, I shall speak a few words to show you what the word "grace" in this
place signifies; [I touched upon this in the first doctrine] for the word "grace" in the Scripture
referreth sometimes to favour with men (Gen 33:10; 39:4; 50:4). Sometimes to holy qualifications
of saints (2 Cor 8:7). And sometimes to hold forth the condescension of Christ in coming down
from the glory which He had with His Father before the world was, to be made of no reputation,
and a servant to men (2 Cor 8:9; Phil 2:7). Again: sometimes it is taken for the free, rich,
and unchangeable love of God to man, through Jesus Christ, that for our cause and sakes did
make Himself poor; and so it is to be understood in these words, "For ye are not under the
law," to be cursed, and damned, and sent headlong to Hell, "but" you are "under grace," to
be saved, to be pardoned, to be preserved, "and kept by the mighty power of God, through faith,"
which alone is the gift of grace, "unto eternal glory." This one Scripture alone proves the
same--"For by grace are ye saved" (Eph 2:8), by free grace, by rich grace, by unchangeable
grace. And you are saved from the curse of the law; from the power, guilt, and filth of sin;
from the power, malice, madness, and rage of the devil; from the wishes, curses, and desires
of wicked men; from the hot, scalding, flaming, fiery furnace of Hell; from being arraigned
as malefactors, convinced, judged, condemned, and fettered with the chains of our sins to the
devils to all eternity; and all this freely, freely by His grace (Rom 3:24) by rich grace unchangeable
grace; for, saith He, "I am the LORD, I change not: therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed"
(Mal 3:6). This is grace indeed.

The word "grace," therefore, in this Scripture (Rom 6:14) is to be understood of the free love
of God in Christ to sinners, by virtue of the new covenant, in delivering them from the power
of sin, from the curse and condemning power of the old covenant, from the destroying nature
of sin, by its continual workings; as is all evident if you read with understanding the words
as they lie--"For," saith he, "sin shall not have dominion over you," or, it shall not domineer,
reign, or destroy you, though you have transgressed against the Covenant of Works, the law;
and the reason is rendered in these words, "For ye are not under the law"--that is, under that
which accuseth, chargeth, condemneth and brings execution on the soul for sin,--"but under
grace"; that is, under that which frees you, forgives you, keeps you, and justifies you from
all your sins, adversaries, or whatever may come in to lay anything to your charge to damn
you. For that is truly called grace in this sense that doth set a man free from all his sins,
deliver him from all the curses of the law, and what else can be laid to His charge, freely,
without any foresight in God to look at what good will be done by the party that hath offended;
and also that doth keep the soul by the same power through faith--which also is his own proper
gift--unto eternal glory.

Again; that it is a pardon not conditional, but freely given, consider, first, it is set in
opposition to works--"Ye are not under the law." Secondly, The promise that is made to them
(saying, "Sin shall not have dominion over you") doth not run with any condition as on their
part to be done; but merely and alone because they were under, or because they had the grace
of God extended to them. "Sin shall not have dominion over you: for," mark the reason, "ye
are not under the law, but under grace."

The words being thus opened, and the truth thus laid down, HOW THERE IS NEVER A BELIEVER UNDER
THE COVENANT OF WORKS, BUT UNDER GRACE, the free, rich, unchangeable love of God, it remaineth
that, in the first place, we prove the doctrine, and after that proceed.

THE DOCTRINE PROVED.

Now in the doctrine there are two things to be considered and proved--FIRST, That believers
are under grace. SECONDLY, Not under the law as a Covenant of Works; for so you must understand
me. For these two we need go no further than the very words themselves; the first part of the
words proves the first part of the doctrine, "Ye are not under the law"; the second part proves
the other, "but" ye are "under grace." But besides these, consider with me a few things for
the demonstrating of these truths, as,

First.

Second. They are not under the law, because their sins and iniquities are not only forgiven,
but they are forgiven them freely. They that stand in the first covenant, and continue there,
are to have never a sin forgiven them unless they can give God a complete satisfaction; for
the law calls for it at their hands, saying, "Pay me that thou owest." O! but when God deals
with His saints by the Covenant of Grace it is not so; for it is said, "And when" He saw "they
had nothing to pay, He frankly" and freely "forgave them" all--"I will heal their backsliding;
I will love them freely."--I will blot "out thy transgressions for Mine own sake," etc. (Luke
7:42; Hosea 14:4; Isa 43:25).

Third. The saints are not under the law, because the righteousness that they stand justified
before God in is not their own actual righteousness by the law, but by imputation, and is really
the righteousness of Another--namely, of God in Christ (2 Cor 5:21; Phil 3:9). "Even the righteousness
of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all," that is, imputed to "them
that believe" (Rom 3:22). But if they were under the old covenant, the Covenant of Works, then
their righteousness must be their own, [But it is impossible that the righteousness of man
by the law should save him.] or no forgiveness of sins--"If thou doest well, shalt thou not
be accepted?" but if thou transgress, "sin lieth at the door," saith the law (Gen 4:7).

Fourth. In a word, whatsoever they do receive, whether it be conversion to God; whether it
be pardon of sin; whether it be faith or hope; whether it be righteousness; whether it be strength"
whether it be the Spirit, or the fruits thereof; whether it be victory over sin, death, or
Hell; whether it be Heaven, everlasting life, and glory inexpressible; or whatsoever it be,
it comes to them freely, God having no first eye to what they would do, or should do, for the
obtaining of the same. But to take this in pieces--1. In a word, are they converted? God finds
them first, for, saith He, "I am found of them that sought Me not" (Isa 65:1). 2. Have they
pardon of sin? They have that also freely,--"I will heal their backsliding, I will love them
freely" (Hosea 14:4). 3. Have they faith? It is the gift of God in Christ Jesus, and He is
not only the Author, that is, the beginner thereof, but He doth also perfect the same (Heb
12:2). 4. Have they hope? It is God that is the first cause thereof--"Remember the word unto
Thy servant, upon which Thou hast caused me to hope" (Psa 119:49). 5. Have they righteousness?
It is the free gift of God (Rom 5:17). Have they strength to do the work of God in their generations,
or any other thing that God would have them do? That also is a free gift from the Lord, for
without Him we neither do nor can do anything (John 15:5). 7. Have we comfort, or consolation?
We have it not for what we have done, but from God through Christ; for He is the God of all
comforts and consolation (2 Cor 1:3-7). 8. Have we the Spirit, or the fruits thereof? it is
the gift of the Father--"how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them
that ask Him (Luke 11:13)? "Thou has wrought all our works in us" (Isa 26:12). Heaven and glory
it is also the gift of Him who giveth us richly all things to enjoy (Matt 25:34).

So that these things, if they be duly and soberly considered, will give satisfaction in this
thing. I might have added many more for the clearing of these things; as 1. When God came to
man to convert him, He found him a dead man (Eph 2:1,2). He found him an enemy to God, Christ,
and the salvation of his own soul; He found him wallowing in all manner of wickedness; He found
him taking pleasure therein; with all delight and greediness. 2. He was fain to quicken him
by putting His Spirit into him, and to translate him by the mighty operation thereof. He was
fain to reveal Christ Jesus unto him, man being altogether senseless and ignorant of this blessed
Jesus (Matt 11:25,27; 1 Cor 2:7-10). 4. He was fain to break the snare of the devil, and to
let poor man, poor bound and fettered man, out of the chains of the enemy.

[THE NEW COVENANT FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE, WHO ARE UNDER IT, AND THEIR PRIVILEGES.]

Now we are to proceed, and the things that we are to treat upon in the second place are these--First.
[Besides the reasons already given.] Why is it a free and unchangeable grace? SECOND. Who they
are that are actually brought into His free and unchangeable Covenant of Grace, and how they
are brought in? THIRD. What are the privileges of those that are actually brought into this
free and glorious grace of the glorious God of Heaven and glory?

[THE NEW COVENANT FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE BECAUSE MADE WITH CHRIST.]

FIRST. WHY IT IS A FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE GRACE.

And for the opening of this we must consider, first, How and through Whom this grace doth come
to be, first, free to us, and, secondly, unchangeable? After thirty-five factual ones possession, after twenty-five years one through the law solemnly
guaranteed possession, after numerous leases and lease modifications, Pledges and bequests it
was too late to look for deficiencies in the legal titles. It would therefore be able to always
happen something to the wounded feelings of the Irish Gentry to heal and her lower back aufzuhelfen
prosperity. The settlers lived in very good conditions. They had their possessions by buildings,
plantings and fences improved significantly, and the rent had doubled within a few years, trade
flourished and the state revenues, which amounted annually to about three hundred thousand pounds,
covered not only plenty of all administrative costs, but also showed a surplus, was sent to England.
There was no doubt that the next coming together in Dublin Parliament, although it is almost exclusively
represented the English interest, in recognition to preserve the royal promise, this interest in all his
legal rights, would be willing to grant the king a very significant sum, to ensure that such
indigenous Families who had been unlawfully deprived of to compensate at least partially. On This
crept ended in our time, the French government disputes that Güterconfiscation through the most extensive
that has ever taken place in Europe in the wake had been. Would also Jacob, when he was with
his most loyal Protestant Rathgeber would be guided, one of the main evil that weighs on Ireland,
or at least significantly have softened. [164]

After he had done so, he would have had to work to the hostile tribes by impartial Protectors
of their rights and reconciled by curbing the excesses of both with
each other.

He had the natives, who gave himself the unbridled wantonness of barbarity, with the same to punish severely,
as the settlers who had abused the dominance of the civilization. As far as the lawful authority
of the crown - and they ranged widely in Ireland - would Nobody that enabled his integrity and
skill for office because of his be origin or belief for any public position held unfit should.
A Roman Catholic king with a standing of its free range State income, had probably no great difficulty
of cooperation by Catholic can keep prelates and priests at the great works of reconciliation
insured. Much would But still the healing influence of time must be left. The natives were still
of the settlers activity, concern for the future of the arts Life and the English language had
to learn. There could be no equality between People living in houses, and people who lived in houses,
between people who of bread, and people who are fed on potatoes, between people, which the noble
Language of great philosopher and poet said, and people who are perverse pride in boasted that they
could not distort their lips to a jargon in which the "progress science "and the" paradise
lost one, "were written. [165] One can, however, with good reason to assume that if the above-described
conciliatory policy of the Government been pursued consistently, would like all barriers gradually
and that of the hostility which have been the curse of Ireland is no more traces would be left
behind, as of the same bitter hostility that once in England between the Saxons and the Normans
raged.

[Note 163: Clarendon reminds the king thereto in one of 14. March 1685 / 86 dated letters, and
adds: "This is undoubtedly a very correct view. "]

[Note 164: Clarendon strongly recommended this procedure and was of the opinion that the Irish Parliament
his part to would help.

    See his letter to Ormond, 28 Aug. 1686.]
    
    [Note 165: It was an O'Neill of high repute, which once said that
it would not be proper for him, the mouth To tilt to babble in English.
- Preface to the Hibernia + Anglicana +.]

[His mistakes.] Unfortunately,
Jacob was not a mediator, but on the contrary, the most violent and
reckless partisan.

    Instead of the mutual hatred between the two populations to appease,
    he roused him to a hitherto unprecedented fervor. He determined
    its position to turn to each other and the Protestant settlers under
the feet of the Popish Celts to throw.

    Being a member of the Established Church, and have English blood
    in his veins, was in his eyes, unable to bourgeois as clothing
    militaire offices. He reflected on the Plan, half of the whole
    land of the island confisciren again and to distribute new, and this
idea he gave to understand so clearly that one party soon seized with
a fear was to appease it to anybody for free, the other was full of
hopes He later tried in vain to knock down.

This was only the smallest part of his Crime and its perversity. He took the deliberate decision
not only the indigenous to put Ireland in the undivided possession of their country, but also
as tools of their to operate the establishment of a despotism in England. It was so successful, as
he could have foreseen. The colonists opposed to the stubborn courage of their Tribe and the mother
country regarded her as their own thing with law. It was now a desperate struggle for a terrible
use. All that is dear to a nation, stand on both sides at stake, and we can blame neither the
Irishman nor the British, that in this extreme danger to the law followed the self-preservation. The
fight was terrible, but short, and the weaker part of subject. His fate was hard, however, was the
cruelty, with which he was treated, if not to justify, to excuse him, for it met him but all
that could add to him only the tyranny, but no more than himself the enemy would have done if he
had overcome him. The result of this senseless attempt England with the help of Ireland to subdue,
was that the Irishman the woodcutters and water carriers the English were. The old landlord lost
in the attempt, what was lost again to conquer, even the greater part of what they had left.
The temporary Preponderance of the papacy called such a series of barbaric laws against Popery
show that this notorious Irish law book in the whole Christian world literally was. These were
the bitter fruits of Jacob's policy.

We have already seen that one of his first steps after he became king, the Ormond's recall from Ireland.
Ormond was the head of the English interest in this country, he was an ardent supporter of the Protestant
faith and its power far exceeded that of an ordinary Lord Lieutenant, first because he is the
chief and most settlers, and secondly because he is not only the head of the Civil Administration,
but also the commander of the troops. The king was not inclined at that time, the government only
to leave Irish hands, had heard him say, in fact, a native viceroy would soon become an independent ruler.
[166] For the moment he decided, therefore, the Power which Ormond had had to divide the civil service
and an English Protestant Lord Lieutenant and the command of the Army and an Irish Roman Catholic
to General transferred. The Lord Lieutenant was Clarendon, the general was Tyrconnel.

Tyrconnel was born, as we have said, from one of the degenerate families
of the old Colony, which was usually lumped together with the original
population of Ireland.

At times, he said, although in a fit of boastfulness with Norman wantonness of the Celtic barbarians,
but in reality, the natives had all his sympathies [167]. The Protestant settlers he hated,
and they replied his hatred. Clarendon's inclinations were quite different kind, but he was
to character, out of interest and principle of a compliant Courtier. His courage was low, not his financial
circumstances, shiny, and the political Doctrines, which preached the Anglican Church at that
time only too eager, had his Spirit of imprinted deep. His skills were too good not to be despised and
under a Kings, he would probably have been an excellent viceroy.

[Note 166: Sheridan-handwritten. among the Stuart papers. I must here acknowledge the courtesy with which Mr.
Glover in me my research for this valuable manuscripts has supported. From the instruction,
which in 1692 for Jacob their son put on shows, that until recently
he believes was, Ireland could not without risk an Irish Lord Lieutenant
be trusted.]

[Note 167: Sheridan-handwritten.]

[Clarendon's arrival
in Ireland as Lord Lieutenant.] It took about three quarters between
the recall and Ormond's arrival in Dublin's Clarendon.

In the meantime the king by a college of judges represents Lord, the Military Administration
but was Tyrconnel's hands. The intentions of the palace started to gradually unveil already.
It came from White Hall, a royal command to disarm the people. This command took Tyrconnel,
as far as it related to the English, with severely. Although the country by bands of robbers
was rendered unsafe, a Protestant gentleman could scarcely permission, a pair of pistols to be
allowed to keep. The native country people, however, were left arms. [168] The Joy of the colonists
was so great to finally appointed in December 1685 Tyrconnel to London Clarendon and even
Dublin was sent. But it soon became clear that the real seat of Government does not Dublin,
but London was. Every post that came across the St. George Channel, brought News of the boundless
influence which Tyrconnel on Irish affairs exercised.

    They said he should Marquis, yes even Duke, he was to the command
    of the Forces are obtained, and were asked to organize the army
    and the courts again. [169]
    
    [Note 168: Clarendon to Rochester, 19 Feb. 1685/86.]
    
    [His insults.] Clarendon felt deeply hurt when he saw that he was
only a child Member of the administration, whose leader he to be expected.

    He complained the fact that all what he was doing disfigured by his
detractors, and that the most important decisions in relation to the
country he managed weeks before the Lord Lieutenant only Suggestion
had been like this, taken in Westminster, publicly made known in the
coffee houses would be discussed and communicated in hundreds of private
letters.

His personal reputation, he said, come here little considered, but it was no small matter if the
representative the majesty of the throne, an object of scorn of the people would be made. [170]

[Note
170: Clarendon to Rochester and Sunderland, 2 March 1685/86, and at Rochester, 14 March.]

[Terror among the colonists.] A panic spread like wildfire among the English settlers, as they
saw that the viceroy, her countryman and a Protestant Faith's brother, was not able to afford them
the protection they expect from him had. They learned through their own bitter experience what it
is, a subjugated caste be. The natives showered them with charges of treason and sedition.
One Protestant had corresponded with Monmouth, the other one had four or five years ago when the
Exclusion was deliberate, disrespectful expressed about the king, and the testimony dishonorable
man was in support of any such accusation is always at hand. The Lord Lieutenant expressed the fear
that if this activity does not cease in Dublin soon be in a very similar reign of terror would,
he had witnessed in London, as everyone's head, and honor in the power of Oates and Bedloe were.
[171]

    

Soon after Clarendon was a short and concise telegram from Sunderland in knowledge set to be carried
out immediately that a complete alteration in the civil and Militairverwaltung Ireland had
been decided and that a large number of Roman Catholics in the civil service immediately should be
made. His Majesty has been added to most ungracious, had in discussed the matter with men,
who were competente adviser, as his Lord Lieutenant inexperienced it can be justly. [172]

Even before this came up letter to the Viceroy, was the message contained in various Due to
come to Ireland. The terror of the settlers was indescribable.

    As a result of the significant Superiority of the native population
    had their situation, in fact, be very sad if those with full force
against them was armed, and no less threatened them.

The English inhabitants of Dublin went with downcast eyes on the road together over, the stock
market operations were thrown to a halt, the landlord rushed to her to sell holdings at any price and
send the proceeds to England, the merchants began to collect their debts and make arrangements
for winding up its affairs. The horror expressed soon its effect on government revenues. [173]
Clarendon tried to instill the frightened settlers a trust of which he himself was far away. He assured
them that their property should not be touched, and he knew that determines the king was determined
to Ansiedelungsacte that their rights to land and Floor guaranteed to maintain his letters to
England but is quite different. He even dared the king to plead, and no intention of His Majesty,
Catholics to put to blame really, he was speaking from the firm view that to be appointed Catholics
at least had to be English. [174]

Jacob's response was dry and kept in a cold tone. He explained that it was not his Intention
was to deprive the English settlers landed her, but that he one large portion of them see as his enemies
and that if he so important property in the hands of his friends leave, it was all the more necessary,
the civil and Militairverwaltung lay in the hands of friends. [175]

Accordingly, a number of Roman Catholics as members of the Privy Council,
and sworn in corporations, where the command to allow the Catholics
to local government.

[176] Many Officers of the army were arbitrarily their posts and thus deprived of their bread. Free used,
the Lord Lieutenant for some of them, which he described as good and loyal soldiers Subjects knew. There
were old gentlemen are lower, which bravely for the monarchy fought and still bore the scars
of honorable wounds on himself. Their bodies have been with men occupied, which had no other recommendation
than their religion. It was said that some of the new captains and lieutenants cowherd, other servants,
or other notorious robber reached that level. Several were so used to the wooden shoes, that
in their militaire Riding boots stumbled along and waddled even funny. Not a few of the adopted
Officers were in Dutch service and four years later had the pleasure of their Successor in ignominious
flight to drive in front of them by the waters of the Boyne. [177]

Clarendon's embarrassment and anxiety was further increased by the messages it on private roads
received. Without his consent and without his knowledge institution was taken, the whole Celtic
Population of the country whose representative he was named after, to arm and to practice. Tyrconnel
headed from London to the operation and the prelates of his church were his agents.
 His first office, after the covenant was made and concluded upon, was that Jesus should
become bound as a Surety, [His Suretyship]. and stand engaged upon oath to see that all the
conditions of the covenant that were concluded on between Him and His Father should, according
to the agreement, be accomplished by Him; and that after that, He should be the Messenger from
God to the world to declare the mind of God touching the tenor and nature of both the covenants,
especially of the new one. The Scripture saith, that Jesus Christ was not only made a priest
by an oath, but also a Surety, or bondsman, as in Hebrews 7:21, 22. In the 21st Verse he speaketh
of the priesthood of Christ, that it was with an oath; and saith, in the 22nd Verse, "By so
much" also "was Jesus made a Surety of a better testament," or covenant.

Now the covenant was not only made on Jesus Christ's side with an oath, but also on God the
Father's side, that it might be for the better ground of establishment to all those that are,
or are to be, the children of the promise. Methinks it is wonderful to consider that the God
and Father of our souls, by Jesus Christ, should be so bent upon the salvation of sinners,
that He would covenant with His Son Jesus for the security of them, and also that there should
pass an oath on both sides for the confirmation of Their resolution to do good. As if the Lord
had said, My Son, Thou and I have here made a covenant, that I on My part should do thus and
thus, and that Thou on Thy part shouldst do so and so. Now that We may give these souls the
best ground of comfort that may be, there shall pass an oath on both sides, that Our children
may see that We do indeed love them. (Heb 6:17,18; 7:21). Mark, the 6th Chapter saith, God
confirmed His part by an oath; and the 7th saith, Christ was made or set on His office also
by an oath. Again, "Once," saith God, "have I sworn by My holiness, that I will not lie unto
David," "nor alter the thing that is gone out of My mouth," (Psa 89:34,35) as was before cited.

Herein you may see that God and Christ were in good earnest about the salvation of sinners;
for as soon as ever the covenant was made, the next thing was, who should be bound to see all
those things fulfilled which were conditioned on between the Father and the Son: the angels,
they could have no hands in it; the world could not do it; the devils had rather see them damned
than they would wish them the least good; thus Christ looked, and there was none to help; though
the burden lay never so heavy upon His shoulder, He must bear it Himself; for there was none
besides Himself to uphold, or so much as to step in to be bound, to see the conditions, before
mentioned, fulfilled neither in whole nor in part (Isa 63:1-7). So that He must not be only
He with whom the covenant was made, but He must also become the bondsman or surety thereof,
and so stand bound to see that all and every particular thing conditioned for should be, both
in manner, and matter, at the time and place, according to the agreement, duly and orderly
fulfilled. Is not this grace?

Now as touching the nature of a surety and his work, in some things it is well known to most
men; therefore I shall be very brief upon it.

First. You know a surety is at the bargain's making; and so was Christ--"Then was I beside
Him" (Prov 8:30).

Second. A surety must consent to the terms of the agreement, or covenant; and so did Christ
Jesus. Now that which He did engage should be done for sinners, according to the terms of the
covenant; it was this--1. That there should be a complete satisfaction given to God for the
sins of the world; for that was one great thing that was agreed upon when the covenant was
made (Heb 10:5,17). 2. Skelton was the time of the riots in English Holland
was born and he had been held, therefore, particularly suitable for the job [27]; but he was neither
for this nor qualified for any other diplomatic position. People have a good judge of character
to understand, it declared the shallowest, most volatile, passionate, talkative and arrogant man, whom
it could be [28]. He took no serious steps to the refugees, as three of the expedition to Scotland
equipped vessels already expired from the Zuyder happy, All the Weapons, ammunition and Mundvorräthe
were brought on board and the passengers embarked had. Now instead of how he ought to have done,
to turn to the States-General, which close to his home held their meetings, he sent a messenger
to the Magistrate leave from Amsterdam with the request that the suspicious ships do not leave.
The magistrate answered from Amsterdam, that the input of Zuyder beyond the reach of its jurisdiction
lies, and referred him to the federal government. It was obvious that this is a mere subterfuge
and that was certainly no trouble had been made when the Amsterdam City Hall had the serious intention
would prevent Argyle on sail. Now turning Skelton to the States General. They were totally inclined
to gratify his request, and since time was short, they deviated from the procedure it otherwise in
the course of business observed habit. That very day on which the colonel turned to them was
in strict accordance with his petition, drawn up command of the Admiralty of Amsterdam been
made. This was in command but as a result of incorrect indications of Skelton's pages the position
of vessels not known exactly. It said it would be in the Texel, while There were at Vlieland.
The Admiralty of Amsterdam took the error as a pretext for nothing to do, and before he could be
corrected, the three ships had sailed. [29]

[Note 27: This is the 16th in his letters of credence March 1684/85 mentioned.]

    [Note 28: Bonrepeaux to Seignelay of 4 (14) February 1686th]
    

    [Note 29: + Avaux Neg.

    April 30 (May 10th), May 1 (11), May 5th (15) 1685 +, + Sir Patrick
    Hume's Narrative +; letter from the Admiralty of Amsterdam to
    the States-General of 20 June 1685; Skelton's Memorial to the States-General
    of 10 May 1685.]

[Argyle's departure from Holland.] The past few hours, which Argyle spent on the coast of Holland,
were hours of the biggest fear. Near him was a Dutch warship with a full position in a moment
the whole expedition would have been confounded. Also rowed a boat around his small fleet, in which
some people with telescopes were, he considered spies. However, no real step done to restrain him, and on
the afternoon of the 2nd May he went with a fair wind to sail.

The ride was happy. The sixth was one of the Orkney Islands in sight. Argyle went very unwisely
at the height of Kirkwall at anchor and allowed two of his companions, here to go to the mainland.
The bishop gave orders to arrest them. The refugees began a long and lively debate on this accident,
because to debate it lacked from the beginning by the end of the expedition never in energy
and stamina, so timid and irresolute in it Others were. Some voted for an attack on Orkney, Others
stayed for non-continuation the trip to Argyleshire. At last the Earl had some at the coast of the
island living Gentlemen arrest and then beat the bishop before the exchange of prisoners. The
bishop was no answer and the fleet set sail again after they had lost three days.

[Argyle lands in Scotland.] This delay was most dangerous. It soon became Edinburgh announced
that the squadron of the rebels had touched the Orkney Islands, and one therefore set in motion
forces quickly. When the Earl reached his province, he found that steps were taken to prevent
his landing. sent at Dunstaffnage He landed his second son, Charles, to call the Campbells to
arms. Karl, however, came back with bad news. The shepherds and fishermen were well prepared to
order Mac Callum More troops, but by the chiefs of the clans were confiscated some prisons, others
had fled, and those remaining were either with the government or wanted know nothing of a revolt
and refused to even, the son of her master head to have only himself. Dunstaffnage of the little
fleet sailed on to Campbell Town, near the southern tip of the Kintyre peninsula. Here the Earl
published a manifesto in Holland under the guidance of the Committee by a Scottish lawyer,
James Stewart, was drawn up, the spring a few months has been taken to completely different things.
In the decrees were in a language that the strong expressions of sometimes burlesque vulgarity
marginalized, many real and some imaginary complaints dealt. Among other things was indicated therein,
the last king had died of poison. For one main purpose of the expedition was the complete
suppression not only of the papacy, but also the prelacy explains which the bitter root and fruit
of the papacy was called, and all good Scots were exhorted to lend the cause of their country and
their God valiant assistance. So eager Argyle also for what he called the pure faith, was taken,
he did it do not bring half Popish, semi-pagan use in application. The mysterious Cross of
yew wood that was first ignited and then deleted in goat blood, was sent out, Campbell's call
to all of the sixteenth to the sixtieth. The Isthmus of Tarbet was intended to rendezvous. The force
that collected there was indeed small in comparison to that which would be met if the courage and the
power of the clans still unbroken would have been, but she was still commanding. It reached the
number of eighteen hundred Argyle divided his men into three regiments of Highlanders and proceeded
with the appointment of the officers.

[Argyle's quarrels with his companions.] The already begun in Holland
squabbles but had not ceased during the whole previous course of the
expedition, in Tarbet but they were more violent than ever.

The Committee was itself in the patriarchal Supremacy of the Earl get involved at the Campbells
and not even allow him to military Rank of his kinsmen to determine according to their own
discretion. While these contentious Disturber of the peace he sought to wrest his power in the
Highlands, they maintained their own correspondence with the Netherlands and exchanged letters, the nominal
general never were communicated. Hume and his allies had the overall supervision of the stores
reserved and they led this important branch of the military administration with a nonchalance
which was different from infidelity hardly could destroy the weapons, wasted the food and were
living in lavish opulence at a time where they all subjects with the example of moderation have
to go ahead.

The big question now was whether the Highlands and the Netherlands [30], the seat of war should be. The
Earl's main goal was for now, his authority over his own territory
to To fix the foreign clans, which had broken out in Perthshire Argyleshire
again and drive out its old headquarters at Inverary retake.

Then he could hope four to five thousand swords have at his disposal, and with such force would
he have been able, these wild areas against the whole power of the Kingdom to defend Scotland,
as well as an excellent basis for offensive operations have won. This seems to have been the most
sensible way to be, who was open to him. Rumbold, the excellent training school had been through
and which one, because he was English, could expect him to an impartial arbitrator between the
Scottish factions would be that, all that stood in his power to assist the Earl. Hume and Cochrane,
however, were quite intractable, their jealousy of Argyle was stronger, in fact, than the wish
that the expedition should succeed. They saw that he's between mountains and lakes formed at the
tip of a mostly members of his own tribe Army will be able to break their resistance and the
full authority of a general exercise. They whispered that the Dutch are the only ones the really
good thing close to his heart, and that Campbell's neither freedom nor for the Church of God
but only for Mac Callum More had taken up arms. Cochrane said he would go to Ayrshire, and
if he alone, should go with nothing but a pitchfork in his hand. After much reluctance, finally
agreed Argyle against his better conviction in it, that his little army was divided. He remained
with Rumbold in the Highlands and Cochrane and Hume joined at the head of the corps, which sailed
to invade the Netherlands.

Cochrane's goal was to Ayrshire, but the coast of this county was from British frigates guarded
and the adventurers had to therefore drive up the mouth of the Clyde to Greenock, the then a small,
was of a single row of straw huts existing fishing village, now but a large, thriving port,
its customs revenue, the Gesammteinkünfte which the Stuarts from the kingdom of Scotland subjected
to exceed five times. stood at Greenock a detachment of militia;
Cochrane but took food and was therefore decided to land.

Hume raised objections, but Cochrane was laid out and ordered an officer named Elphinstone
to go with twenty men in a boat to the shore. But the contentious spirit the leader had infected
all ranks. Elphinstone said he was only required to reasonably to obey orders, but this is unreasonable,
in short, he will not go. Major Fullarton, a good man, respected by all parties, but it was
a special friend of Argyle, undertook it to land with only twelve men and succeeded in spite of
the fire, from the coast was directed at him. There ensued a small battle and the militia retreated.
Cochrane marched in Greenock, is procured Mehlvorrath, but found the people were not inclined
to Insurrection.

[Note 30: namely, the Scottish. D. Transl.]

[Mood of the Scottish nation.] The public mood in Scotland was in fact not as the exiles, which
by their class at any time own blindness infatuated, they had expected. The Government was of hateful
and hated, but the malcontents were split into factions, which were disposed against each
other almost as hostile as against their rulers, and showed no particular
desire of these parties to the incident to join.

    Many spoke from the rebellion any prospect of success, and the courage
of many Other had been broken by long and cruel oppression effectively.

However, there were a class of enthusiasts who were not accustomed to the prospects of success
to consider, not the pressure of the tamed, but on the contrary, bitter to the extreme had,
but these people saw little difference between Argyle and Jacob. Her anger had risen to such a degree
that what Others have called any ardor would, in their eyes laodicäische lukewarm. weighed on
a past of Earl Spots, which they regarded as the most disgraceful apostasy. The same Highlanders, he
is now calling for the extermination of prelacy, he had a few years earlier for the defense
the same times. Were slaves, who knew nothing of religion and do not care about them, which
were ready for Synodalverfassung for episcopacy and papacy to fight, as Mac Callum More precisely,
it was pleased to command, worthy ally for the chosen people God? The held in indecent and
intolerant tone of this manifesto appeared fanatics as a cowardly and worldly concoction. have
a constitution, as it gave them Argyle and afterwards they would like a more powerful and happier
liberators gave them, they seemed no combat worthy. They demanded not only freedom of conscience
for himself, but also absolute Dominion over the conscience of others, not merely Presbyterian
doctrine, constitution and worship, but the Covenant in its extreme austerity. They were to meet
only in that all purposes, concerning whom there is a civil society, the rule of a theological System
have been sacrificed. He who believes that no form of church government a violation the charity
is worthy, who recommended that understanding and tolerance, which ranged between Jehovah and
Baal, as they put it. Who acts like the murder of Cardinal Beatoun and Archbishop Sharpe damn, fell
into the same error for which power Saul as king of Israel had been rejected. All measures,
including through which civilized and Christian people of the horrors of war were to be mitigated,
the Lord is an abomination. Pardon was allowed to be taken nor given. A frenzied Malay, one of a heap
Persecuted mad dog: these were the role models who are warriors who just self-defense to fought, should
take as a model. For the reasons by which statesmen and generals in their steps, can channel
these zealots were absolutely impervious. If a man is dared to cite such reasons, this was a sufficient
proof that he was not to belonged to the faithful. If the divine blessing was missing, it could
well crafty politician war-experienced military leaders, weapons crates from Holland or regiments
not born again Celts from the mountains of Lorn do little. Was, however, on the other side
the time the Lord really came, it was still as of old by what foolish is to make the wise men to
shame before the world and a few just as well as by many . Save The broad swords and bayonets Athol's
Claverhouse's were able to precisely such modest weapons like the slingshot of David or Gideon's
pitchers on the run are [31].

After Cochrane had recognized the impossibility of the population south of the Clyde to insurrection
to move, he returned to Argyle, who was on the island of Bute. The Earl suggested But times
before to try to attack Inverary, but he pushed again for persistent Opposition. The sailors
did it with Cochrane and Hume, the Highlanders did submit strictly the orders of their leader.
It was feared that between the two Parties would come to blows, and led the apprehension of
such a disaster the Committee to make some concessions. The castle Ealan Ghierig, at the mouth
of the hole [32] Riddan located, was chosen as the main parade ground. The military stores
were disembarked there and the wing close to the walls at a point where it passes through rocks
and shoals, which she believes a frigate could not pass protected was laid at anchor. Then
External works were raised, and a battery of some of the ships taken small Cannons ascended. The
command in the fort was transferred most unwisely Elphinstone, who
had already given evidence that he was far more inclined to deal with
his superiors to fight than to fight against the enemy.

Now for a few hours a little energy has been developed. Rumbold took the castle Ardkingglaß. The Earl
scharmützelte successfully with Athol's troops and was already in the approach of against
Inverary understood when he grows during follow-up messages from the ships and by party divisions
in committee was forced to turn back. The royal frigates were Ealan Ghierig come closer than
anyone thought possible, and the gentlemen of the Netherlands refused to most definitely, further
advance into the highlands. Argyle hastened back to Ealan Ghierig. Once there, he proposed an attack
on the frigates. His ships were Although such a company is not conclusive, but they were by a flotilla
of been great support with thirty armed Highlanders wohlbemannten Fischerböten.
 To signify, that the suffering of Christ was not only a bodily suffering,
but a soul suffering; not only to suffer what man could inflict upon Him, but also to suffer
soul torments that none but God can inflict, or suffer to be inflicted upon Him. O, the torments
of His soul! they were the torments indeed; His soul was that that felt the wrath of God. "My
soul," saith He, "is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death" (Matt 26:38). "Now is My soul troubled,
and what shall I say?" (John 12:27). The rock was not so rent as was His precious soul; there
was not such a terrible darkness on the face of the earth then as there was on His precious
soul. O! the torments of Hell and the eclipsings of the Divine smiles of God were both upon
Him at once; the devils assailing of Him, and God forsaking of Him, and all at once! "My God,
My God," saith He, "why hast Thou forsaken Me?" (Matt 27:46). Now in my greatest extremity;
now sin is laid upon Me, the curse takes hold of Me, the pains of Hell are clasped about Me,
and Thou hast forsaken Me. O sad! Sinners, this was not done in pretence, but in reality; not
in show, but in very deed; otherwise Christ had dissembled, and had not spoken the truth; but
the truth of it His bloody sweat declares, His mighty cries declare, the things which and for
what He suffered declare. Nay, I must say thus much, that all the damned souls in Hell, with
all their damnations, did never yet feel that torment and pain that did this blessed Jesus
in a little time. Sinner, canst thou read that Jesus Christ was made an offering for sin, and
yet go in sin? Canst thou hear that the load of thy sins did break the very heart of Christ,
and spill His precious blood? and canst thou find in thy heart to labour to lay more sins upon
His back? Canst thou hear that He suffered the pains, the fiery flames of Hell, and canst thou
find in thy heart to add to His groans by slighting of His sufferings? O hard-hearted wretch!
how canst thou deal so unkindly with such a sweet Lord Jesus?

Quest. But why did Christ offer Himself in sacrifice?

Answ. That thou shouldst not be thrown to the very devils.

Quest. But why did He spill His precious blood?

Answ. That thou mightest enjoy the joys of Heaven.

Quest. But why did He suffer the pains of Hell?

Answ. That thou mightest not fry with the devil and damned souls.

Quest. But could not we have been saved if Christ had not died?

Answ. No; for without the shedding of blood there is no remission; and besides, there was no
death that could satisfy God's justice but His, which is evident, because there was none in
a capacity to die, or that was able to answer an infinite God by His so suffering but He. 9

Quest. But why did God let Him die?

Answ. He standing in the room of sinners, and that in their names and natures, God's justice
must fall upon Him; for justice takes vengeance for sin wheresoever it finds it, though it
be on His dear Son. Nay, God favoured His Son no more, finding our sins upon Him, than He would
have favoured any of us; for, should we have died? so did He. Should we have been made a curse?
so was He. Should we have undergone the pains of Hell? so did He.

Quest. But did He indeed suffer the torments of Hell?

Answ. Yea, and that in such a horrible way too, that it is unspeakable.

Quest. Could He not have suffered without His so suffering? Would not His dying only of a natural
death have served the turn?

Answ. No, in nowise. [1]. The sins for which He suffered called for the torments of Hell; the
conditions upon which He died did call for the torments of Hell; for Christ did not die the
death of a saint, but the death of a sinner, of a cursed and damned sinner; because He stood
in their room, the law to which He was subjected called for the torments of Hell; the nature
of God's justice could not bate Him anything; the death which He was to suffer had not lost
its sting; all these being put together do irresistibly declare unto us that He, as a sacrifice,
did suffer the torments of Hell (Gal 3:13). But, 2. Had He not died and suffered the cursed
death, the covenant had been made void, and His Suretyship would have been forfeited, and,
besides this, the world damned in the flames of Hell-fire; therefore, His being a sacrifice
was one part of the covenant; for the terms of the covenant were that He should spill His blood.
O blessed Jesus! O blessed grace! (Zech 9:10,11).

Quest. But why, then, is His death so slighted by some?

Answ. Because they are enemies to Him, either through ignorance or presumption; either for
want of knowledge or out of malice; for surely did they love or believe Him, they could not
choose but break and bleed at heart to consider and to think of Him (Zech 12:10,11.)

Christ the High Priest of the New Covenant.

FOURTH, [A fourth office of Christ under the new covenant is His priestly]. Thus, passing this,
I shall now speak something to Christ's priestly office. But, by the way, if any should think
that I do spin my thread too long in distinguishing His priestly office from His being a sacrifice,
the supposing that for Christ to be a priest and a sacrifice is all one and the same thing;
and it may be it is, because they have not thought on this so well as they should--namely,
that as He was a sacrifice He was passive, that is, led or had away as a lamb to His sufferings
(Isaiah 53); but as a priest He was active--that is, He did willingly and freely give up His
Body to be a sacrifice. "He hath given His life a ransom for many." This consideration being
with some weight and clearness on my spirit, I was and am caused to lay them down in two particular
heads.

And therefore I would speak something to is this, that as there were priests under the first
covenant, so there is a Priest under this, belonging to this new covenant, a High Priest, the
Chief Priest; as it is clear where it is said, We "having a high priest over the house of God"
(Heb 3:1; 5:5,10; 7:24-26; 8:1, 4; 10:21).

Now the things that I shall treat upon are these--First, I shall show you the qualifications
required of a priest under the Law; Second, his office; and, Third, how Jesus Christ did according
to what was signified by those under the law; I say, how He did answer the types, and where
He went beyond them.

First, For his qualifications:--

1. They must be called thereto of God--"No man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that
is called of God, as Aaron" (Heb 5:4). Now Aaron's being called of God to be a priest signifies
that Jesus Christ is a Priest of God's appointment, such an one that God hath chosen, likes
of, and hath set on work--"Called of God an High Priest," etc. (Heb 5:10).

2. The priests under the law they must be men, complete, not deformed--"Speak unto Aaron,"
saith God to Moses, "saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any
blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God. For whatsoever man he be that
hath a blemish, he shall not approach; a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose,
or any thing superfluous, or a man that is broken-footed, or broken-handed, or crook-backt,
or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones
broken; no man that hath a blemish of the seed of Aaron the priest shall come nigh to offer
the offerings of the Lord made by fire; he that hath a blemish; he shall not come nigh to offer
the bread of his God" (Lev 21:17-21). What doth all this signify but that, (1.) He must not
be lame, to signify he must not go haltingly about the work of our salvation. (2.) He must
not be blind, to signify that he must not go ignorantly to work, but he must be quick of understanding
in the things of God. (3.) He must not be scabbed, to signify that the priest must not be corrupt
of filthy in his office. (4.) In a word, he must be every way complete, to signify to us that
Jesus Christ was to be, and is, most complete and most perfect in things pertaining to God
in reference to His second covenant.

3. The priests under the law were not to be hard-hearted, but pitiful and compassionate, willing
and ready, with abundance of bowels, to offer for the people, and to make an atonement for
them (Heb 5:1,2). To signify, that Jesus Christ should be a tender-hearted High Priest, able
and willing to sympathize and be affected with the infirmities of others, to pray for them,
to offer up for them His precious blood; He must be such an One who can have compassion on
a company of poor ignorant souls, and on them that are out of the way, to recover them, and
to set them in safety (Heb 4:15). And that He might thus do, He must be a man that had experience
of the disadvantages that infirmity and sin did bring unto those poor creatures (Heb 2:17).

4. The high priests under the law were not to be shy or squeamish in case there were any that
had the plague or leprosy, scab or blotches; but must look on them, go to them, and offer for
them (Lev 13), all which is to signify, that Jesus Christ should not refuse to take notice
of the several infirmities of the poorest people, but to teach them, and to see that none of
them be lost by reason of their infirmity, for want of looking to or tending of. 10

This privilege also have we under this second covenant. This is the way to make grace shine.

5. The high priests under the law they were to be anointed with very excellent oil, compounded
by art (Exo 29:7; 30:30). To signify, that Jesus, the Great High Priest of this new covenant,
would be in a most eminent way anointed to His priestly office by the Holy Spirit of the Lord.

6. The priest's food and livelihood in the time of his ministry was to be the consecrated and
holy things (Exo 29:33). To signify, that it is the very meat and drink of Jesus Christ to
do His priestly office, and to save and preserve His poor, tempted, and afflicted saints. O
what a new-covenant High Priest have we!

7. The priests under the law were to be washed with water (Exo 29:4). (Heb 7:26).

8. But I pass that.

Second, Now I shall speak to His office. The office of the high priest in general was twofold.
1. To offer the sacrifice without the camp. 2. To bring it within the veil--that is, into the
holiest of all, which did type out Heaven.

1. [First part of the high priest's office]. (1.) It was the office of the priest to offer
the sacrifice; and so did Jesus Christ; He did offer His own Body and Soul in sacrifice. I
say, HE did OFFER it, and not another, as it is written, "No man taketh away My life, but I
lay it down of Myself; I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again" (John
10:17,18). And again it is said, "When He," Jesus, "had offered up one sacrifice for sin, for
ever sat down on the right hand of God" (Heb 10:12). (2.) The priests under the law must offer
up the sacrifice that God had appointed, and none else, a complete one without any blemish;
and so did our High Priest, where He saith, "Sacrifice and offering Thou wouldest not, but
a body has Thou prepared Me," and that I will offer (Heb 10:5). (3.) The priest was to take
of the ashes of the sacrifice, and lay them in a clean place; and this signifies, that the
Body of Jesus, after it had been offered, should be laid into Joseph's sepulchre, as in a clean
place, where never any man before was laid (Lev 6:11, compared with John 19:41,42).

2. [Second part of the high priest's office]. This being one part of his office, and when this
was done, then in the next place he was, (1.) To put on the glorious garment, when he was to
go into the holiest, and take of the blood, and carry it thither, etc., he was to put on the
holy garment which signifieth the righteousness of Jesus Christ. (2.) He was in this holy garment,
which hath in it the stones, and in the stones the names of the twelve tribes of the children
of Israel, to appear in the holy place. (Exo 28:9,10). And this was to signify, that Jesus
Christ was to enter into the holiest, then He was there to bear the names of His elect in the
tables of His heart before the Throne of God and the Mercy-seat (Heb 12:23). (3.) With this
he was to take of the blood of the sacrifices, and carry it into the holiest of all, which
was a type of Heaven, and there was he to sprinkle the mercy-seat; and this was to be done
by the high priest only; to signify, that none but Jesus Christ must have this office and privilege,
to be the people's High Priest to offer for them. "But into the second went the high priest
alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors
of the people" (Heb 9:7). (4.) He was there to make an atonement for the people with the blood,
sprinkling of it upon the mercy-seat; but this must be done with much incense. (Lev 16:11-15).
Now this was for the priest and the people; all which doth signify that Jesus Christ was after
His death to go into Heaven itself, of which this holy place was a figure, and there to carry
the sacrifice that He offered upon the Cross into the presence of God, to obtain mercy for
the people in a way of justice (Heb 9). And in that he is said to take his hands full of sweet
incense, it signifies that Jesus Christ was to offer up His sacrifice in the presence of His
Father in a way of intercession and prayers.

I might have branched these things out into several particulars, but I would be brief. I say,
therefore, the office of the priest was to carry the blood into the holy place, and there to
present it before the mercy-seat, with his heart full of intercessions for the people for whom
he was a priest (Luke 1:8-11). This is Jesus Christ's work now in the Kingdom of Glory, to
plead His own blood, the nature and virtue of it, with a perpetual intercession to the God
of Mercy on behalf of us poor miserable sinners (Heb 7:25).

[Comfortable considerations from Christ's intercession]. Now, in the intercession of this Jesus,
which is part of His priestly office, there are these things to be considered for our comfort--

1. There is a pleading of the virtue of His Blood for them that are already come in, that they
may be kept from the evils of heresies, delusions, temptations, pleasures, profits, or anything
of this world which may be too hard for them. "Father, I pray not that Thou shouldest take
them out of the world," saith Christ, "but that Thou shouldest keep them from the evil" (John
17:15).

2.

3. The maintaining of grace, also, is by Jesus Christ's intercession, being the second part
of His priestly office. O, had we not a Jesus at the right hand of God making intercession
for us, and to convey fresh supplies of grace unto us through the virtue of His Blood being
pleaded at God's right hand, how soon would it be with us as it is with those for whom He prays
not at all (John 17:9)? But the reason why thou standest while others fall, the reason why
thou goest through the many temptations of the world, and shakest them off from thee, while
others are ensnared and entangled therein, it is because thou hast an interceding Jesus. "I
have prayed," saith He, "that thy faith fail not" (Luke 22:32).

4. It is partly by the virtue of Christ's intercession that the elect are brought in. There
are many that are to come to Christ which are not yet brought in to Christ: and it is one part
of His work to pray for their salvation too--"Neither pray I for these alone, but for them
also which shall believe," though as yet they do not believe "on Me," but that they may believe
"through their word" (John 17:20). And let me tell thee, soul, for thy comfort, who art a-coming
to Christ, panting and sighing, as if thy heart would break, I tell thee, soul, thou wouldst
never have come to Christ, if He had not first, by the virtue of His blood and intercession,
sent into thy heart an earnest desire after Christ; and let me tell thee also, that it is His
business to make intercession for thee, not only that thou mightest come in, but that thou
mightest be preserved when thou art come in (Compare Heb 7:25; Rom 8:33-39).

5. It is by the intercession of Christ that the infirmities of the saints in their holy duties
are forgiven. Alas, if it were not for the priestly office of Christ Jesus, the prayers, alms,
and other duties of the saints might be rejected, because of the sin that is in them; but Jesus
being our High Priest, He is ready to take away the iniquities of our holy things, perfuming
our prayers with the glory of His own perfections; and therefore it is that there is an answer
given to the saints' prayers, and also acceptance of their holy duties (Rev 8:3,4). And for
this cause He is the mediator of the New Testament," or covenant, "that by means of death,
for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are
called," notwithstanding all their sins, "might receive the promise of eternal inheritance"
(Heb 9:11-15).

Third. The third thing now to be spoken to is, to show where and how Jesus Christ outwent and
goes beyond these priests, in all their qualifications and offices, for the comfort of poor saints.

1. They that were called to the priesthood under the law were but men; but He is both God and
man (Heb 7:3,28).

2. Their qualifications were in them in a very scanty way; but Jesus was every way qualified
in an infinite and full way.

3. They were consecrated but for a time, but He for evermore (Heb 7:23,24).

4. They were made without an oath, but He with an oath (Verses 20,21).

5. They as servants; but He as a Son (Hebrews 3:6).

6. Their garments were but such as could be made with hands, but His the very righteousness
of God (Exo 28; Rom 3:22; Phil 3:8,9).

7. Their offerings were but the body and blood of beasts, and such like, but His offering was
His own body and soul (Heb 9:12,13; 10:4,5; Isa 53:10).

8. Those were at best but a shadow or type, but He the very substance and end of all those
ceremonies (Heb 9:1,10,11).

9. Their holy place was but made by men, but His, or that which Jesus is entered, is into Heaven
itself (Heb 9:2,3,24).

10. When they went to offer their sacrifice, they were forced to offer for themselves, as men
compassed about with infirmity, but He holy, harmless, who did never commit the least transgression
(Heb 7:26; 10:11).

11. They when they went to offer they were fain to do it standing, to signify that God had
no satisfaction therein; but He, when "He had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat
down on the right hand of God," to signify that God was very well pleased with His offering
(Heb 10:12).

12. They were fain to offer "oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins";
but He, "by one offering hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified" (Heb 10:11,14).

13. Their sacrifices at the best could but serve for the cleansing of the flesh, but His for
cleansing both body and soul--the blood of Jesus Christ doth purge the conscience from dead
works, to live a holy life (Heb 9:13,14).

14. Those high priests could not offer but once a year in the holiest of all, but our High
Priest He ever liveth to make intercession for us (Heb 9:7; 12:24,25).

15. Those high priests, notwithstanding they were priests, they were not always to wear their
holy garments; but Jesus never puts them off of Him, but is in them always.

16. Those high priests, death would be too hard for them, but our High Priest hath vanquished
and overcome that cruel enemy of ours, and brought life and immortality to light through the
glorious Gospel (Heb 7:21,23; 2:15; 2 Tim 1:10).

17. Those high priests were not able to save themselves; but this is able to save Himself,
and all that come to God, by Him (Heb 7:25).

18. Those high priests' blood could not do away sin; but the blood of Jesus Christ, who is
our High Priest, "cleanseth us from all sin" (1 John 1:7).

19. Those high priests sometimes by sin caused God to reject their sacrifices; but this High
Priest doth always the things that please Him.

20. Those high priests could never convey the Spirit by virtue of their sacrifices or office;
but this High Priest, our Lord Jesus, He can and doth give all the gifts and graces that are
given to the sons of men.

21. Those high priests could never by their sacrifices bring the soul of any sinner to glory
by virtue of itself; but Jesus hath by one offering, as I said before, perfected for ever those
that He did die for. Thus in brief I have showed in some particulars how and wherein Jesus
our High Priest doth go beyond those high priests; and many more without question might be
mentioned, but I forbear.

Christ the forerunner of the saints.

FIFTH. A fifth office of Christ in reference to the second covenant was, that He should be
the forerunner to Heaven before His saints that were to follow after. First, He strikes hands
in the covenant, [and then] He stands bound as a Surety to see everything in the covenant accomplished
that was to be done on His part; [next] He brings the message from Heaven to the world; and
before He goeth back, He offereth Himself for the same sins that He agreed to suffer for; and
so soon as this was done, He goeth post-haste to Heaven again, not only to exercise the second
part of His priestly office, but as our forerunner, to take possession for us, even into Heaven
itself, as you may see, where it is said, "Whither the Forerunner is for us entered" (Heb 6:20).

First. He is run before to open Heaven's gates--Be ye open, ye everlasting doors, that the
King of Glory may enter in.

Second. He is run before us to take possession of glory in our natures for us.

Third. He is run before to prepare us our places against we come after--"I go to prepare a
place for you" (John 14:1-3).

Fourth. He is run thither to make the way easy, in that He hath first trodden the path Himself.

Fifth. He is run thither to receive gifts for us. All spiritual and heavenly gifts had been
kept from us had not Christ, so soon as the time appointed was come, run back to the Kingdom
of Glory to receive them for us. But I cannot stand to enlarge upon these glorious things,
the Lord enlarge them upon your hearts by meditation. [These things have I spoken to show you
that saints are under grace.]

Christ completely fulfilled the conditions of the new covenant.

Here now I might begin to speak of His prophetical and kingly office, and the privileges that
do and shall come thereby, but that I fear I shall be too tedious, therefore at this time I
shall pass them by. Thus you may see how the Covenant of Grace doth run, and with Whom it was
made, and also what were the conditions thereof.

Now, then, this grace, this everlasting grace of God, comes to be free to us through the satisfaction,
according to the conditions, given by Another for us; for though it be free, and freely given
to us, yet the obtaining of it did cost our Head, our public Man, a very dear price. "For ye
are bought with a price," even with the precious blood of Christ. His men were also discarded. Himself was beaten to the ground
and stayed for a while dead to lie. The resistance of the brave Countrymen, however, could not
be of long duration, for powder and shot were completely assumed. They heard the cry: "Ammunition!
For God's sake ammunition, "But it was no longer at hand. Now also was approaching the royal
artillery, half a mile had it been on the road from Weston to Zoyland Bridgewater. The equipment
of the British army was still so poor that it would have cost enormous effort the heavy guns
on the place to drag out the battle raged had not, the Bishop Winchester's carriage horses and
their harness lent for this purpose. This interference of a Christian prelate in a bloody affair,
with strange inconsistency been condemned by some Whig writers, while not criminal found in the behavior
of the many Puritan ministers, which protested against the government were under arms. And
when the guns finally arrived, there was so much of gunners, that a sergeant had to take over the
operation of several artillery regiments, the Dumbarton [96]. So bad, however, the guns were also served,
but they brought the fight quickly to an end. The lances of the rebel battalions began to descend, the
ranks were broken, and the royal cavalry made a repeated attack, and threw all the right down,
while at the same time, the infantry came in great numbers across the ditch. Even in this highest
distress of the miners were still bravely stand and Menrix sold their lives dearly. But in a
few minutes, the defeat was complete. Three hundred royal soldiers were killed or wounded, and
were by the rebels more than a thousand dead on the Moor [97].

Thus ended the last one with a battle-paid struggle, on English soil taken place. The impression
that the same left behind by the simple inhabitants of the neighborhood, was deep and lasting.
However, this impression has been refreshed frequently again because
even in our days still have plow and spade, often gruesome memento
of the carnage, like skulls, bones and strange weapons manufactured
from Ackergeräthen to Unearthed.

Old fellow told not long ago that they often in their childhood the Moore's the battle between
King James and King Monmouth's men played and that the latter always "Soho" would have called [98].

What
in the battle of Sedgemoor most striking is the fact that the output only a moment could be in
doubt and that the rebels thus making a long resistance. At present, it would be regarded as a miracle,
if five or six thousand collier farmers and only one half as large number of regular cavalry
and infantry half Hour remained defiant. Our surprise, however, will diminish, perhaps, if
we Take into account that at times extremely Jacob II, the discipline of the regular army lax,
and that was used on the other side the country people out to serve
in the militia.

The Difference between a regiment and a regiment just Fußgarden of hired peasants was therefore,
although very important, but not as great as it is now. Monmouth led not merely a mob to attack
soldiers experienced, and his people were not without all military coat, while Feversham's troops
in comparison to the British troops the present time almost a mob could be quoted.

It was four clock, the sun rose and the defeated army poured into the streets en masse Bridgewater.
The turmoil, the blood, the wounds, the ghostly figures, which to Floor sank, never to rise again,
spreading terror and consternation in the city.
 Is there to be a righteousness to clothe them with that is to be presented before Divine
justice? there here is the righteousness of Christ, which is "even the righteousness of God
by faith" (Rom 3:22; Phil 3:8-10).

5. Are there any sins now that will fly upon this Saviour like so many lions, or raging devils,
if He take in hand to redeem man? He will be content to bear them all Himself alone, even in
His own body upon the tree (1 Peter 2:24).

6. Is there any law now that will curse and condemn this Saviour for standing in our persons
to give satisfaction to God for the transgression of man? He will be willing to be cursed,
yea, to be made a curse for sinners, rather than they shall be cursed and damned themselves
(Gal 3:13).

7. Must the great and glorious God, whose eyes are so pure that He cannot behold iniquity;
I say, must He not only have the blood, but the very life of Him that will take in hand to
be the Deliverer and Saviour of us poor miserable sinners? He is willing to lay down His life
for His sheep (John 10:11).

8. Must He not only die a natural death, but must His soul descend into hell, though it should
not be left there, He will suffer that also Psalms 16:10; and Acts 2:31. 11

9. Must He not only be buried, but rise again from the dead, and overcome death, that He might
be the first-fruits to God of them that sleep, which shall be saved? He will be buried, and
also through the strength of His Godhead, He will raise Himself out of the grave, though death
hold Him never so fast, and the Jews lay never such a great stone upon the mouth of the selpulchre,
and seal it never so fast (1 Cor 15:4; Luke 24:34).

10. Must He carry that body into the presence of His Father, to take possession of Heaven,
and must He appear there as a priest, as a forerunner, as an advocate, as prophet, as a treasure-house,
as an interceder and pleader of the causes of His people? He will be all these, and much more,
to the end the grace of God by faith in Jesus Christ might be made sure to all the seed. "Who
then can condemn? It is God that justifieth; because Christ hath died, yea rather, that is
risen again." Who, now seeing all this is so effectually done, shall lay anything, the least
thing? who can find the least flaw, the least wrinkle, the least defect or imperfection, in
this glorious satisfaction (Rom 8:33-34; Heb 6:20; 9:24; John 14:2,3; 1 John 2:1)?

Object. But is it possible that He should so soon give infinite justice a satisfaction, a complete
satisfaction? for the eternal God doth require an eternal lying under the curse, to the end
He may be eternally satisfied.

Answ. Indeed, that which is infinite must have an eternity to satisfy God in--that is, they
that fall into the prison and pit of utter darkness must be there to all eternity, to the end
the justice of God may have its full blow at them. But now He that I am speaking of is God,
and so is infinite (Isa 9:6; Titus 1:16,17; Heb 1:8,9; Phil 2:4-6). Now, He which is true God
is able to give in as little a time an infinite satisfaction as Adam was in giving the dissatisfaction.
Adam himself might have given satisfaction for himself as soon as Christ had he been very God,
as Jesus Christ was. For the reason why the posterity of Adam, even so many of them as fall
short of life, must lie broiling in Hell to all eternity is this--they are not able to give
the justice of God satisfaction, they being not infinite, as aforesaid. As I said before.

Object. This is much; but is God connected with this? Is He satisfied now in the behalf of
sinners by this Man's thus suffering? If He is, then how doth it appear?

Answ. It is evident, yea, wonderful evident, that this hath pleased Him to the full, as appeareth
by these following demonstrations.--

First. In that God did admit Him into His presence; yea, receive Him with joy and music, even
with the sound of the trumpet, at His ascension into Heaven (Psa 47:5). And Christ makes it
an argument to His children that His righteousness was sufficient, in that He went to His Father,
and they saw Him no more, "of righteousness," saith He, "because I go to My Father, and ye
see Me no more" (John 16:10). As if He had said, My Spirit shall show to the world that I have
brought in a sufficient righteousness to justify sinners withal, in that when I go to appear
in the presence of My Father on their behalf, He shall give Me entertainment, and not throw
Me down from Heaven, because I did not do it sufficiently.

Again; if you consider the high esteem that God the Father doth set on the death of His Son,
you will find that He hath received good content thereby. When the Lord Jesus, by way of complaint,
told His Father that He and His merits were not valued to the worth, His Father answered, It
is a light thing that I should give Thee, O My Servant, to bring Jacob again; "I will also
give Thee for a light to the Gentiles, that Thou mayest be My salvation unto the end of the
earth" (Isa 49:6). As if the Lord had said, "My Son, I do value Thy death at a higher rate
than that Thou shouldst save the tribes of Israel only; behold the Gentiles, the barbarous
heathens, they also shall be brought in as the price of Thy blood. 12

Again; you may see it also by the carriage of God the Father to all the great sinners to whom
mercy was proffered. We do not find that God maketh any objection against them to come to Him
for the pardon of their sins; because He did want a satisfaction suitable to the greatness
of their sins. There was Manasseh, who was one that burned his children in the fire to the
devil, that used witchcraft, that used to worship the host of heaven, that turned his back
on the Word that God sent unto him; nay, that did worse than the very heathen that God cast
out before the children of Israel (2 Chron 33:1-13). Also those that are spoken of in the Nineteenth
of Acts, that did spend so much time in conjuration, and the like, for such I judge they were,
that when they came to burn their books, they counted the price thereof to be fifty thousand
pieces of silver (Acts 19:19). Simon Magus also, that was a sorcerer, and bewitched the whole
city, yet he had mercy proffered to him once and again (Acts 8). I say, it was not the greatness
of the sins of these sinners; no, nor of an innumerable company of others, that made God at
all to object against the salvation of their souls, which justice would have constrained Him
to had He not had satisfaction sufficient by the blood of the Lord Jesus. 1662
    +; Bonrepaux to Seignelay, 1 (11) February 1686].

[White.] At that same party included a scheming enterprising Irishman named White, the much
spent abroad, the House of Austria as a hybrid of ambassadors and Spy who served and rewarded
for his services with the title of Marquis of Albéville had been
[51].

    

[Note 51: Bonrepaux to Seignelay, 1 (11) February 1686th]

[Tyrconnel.] Soon after the prorogation received this swashbuckling party is an important gain.
Richard Talbot, Earl of Tyrconnel, the most violent and most unbending of those who take liberties
and hated the religion of England, came from Dublin to the court. Talbot came from an old Norman family,
long resident in Leinster have been, had there fallen into decay, the customs of the Celts
had assumed that clung like the old religion and at the insurrection of 1641 had joined them.
In his youth he was one of the largest Swindlers and bullies London's been. When Charles and Jacob
in exile in Flanders lived, he had been presented to them as a man of the squalid services, the to
murder Protector, sent and was prepared. Soon after the Restoration tried Talbot, be acquired
through an even more shameful service the favor of the royal family. It took a pretext to justify
the Duke of York so that he vows broke through which he had obtained from Anna Hyde the highest
proof of feminine love. Talbot undertook in connection with some of his dissolute companions,
such Pretext to deliver. It was agreed that the young lady as a creature without virtue, shame
and honor to represent a long and tender novel of secret meetings and Favors to invent. Talbot
told specifically how he at one of his secret Visits had been so unhappy that Dintenfass of
the Registrar on a pile of papers pour and how cleverly they have prevented the discovery of
the fact that the blame pushed to the accident on their monkeys. These stories, which, even
if it was true would only have to utter the most ordinary people can come, were pure inventions.
Talbot was soon forced to admit this, and he did so without a blush. The maligned Dame was Duchess of
York. If her husband a truly honest and honorable Man was, he would the villains who had slandered,
with indignation and contempt have banished from his presence. But it was a characteristic peculiarity
of James that he even a very shameful and vile act did not find objectionable when used in the
intention was committed to win his favor. Talbot still had access to court appeared daily with
brazen forehead before the princess, he had wanted to ruin and soon received the lucrative post
of main coupler of her husband. Not long after White Hall was suddenly startled by the news that
Dick Talbot, as he usually was called, had forged a plan to assassinate the Duke of Ormond. The
Bravo was sent to the Tower, but after a few days, he strutted back into the galleries carried
around and note between his master and the most shameless maid of honor. In vain grizzled
and wise counselor invaded the royal brothers, that vile People do not favor, the only recommendation
to be engaging appearance and his good taste in clothes was, Talbot was not only welcome in
the palace when the bottle or making the rounds of the dice, but he was alert and in state affairs
belongs. He played the role of an Irish patriot and defended with great insolence and sometimes
with success the cause of his countrymen, whose assets had been confiscated, but could not always
pay his servants, and partly acquired through trade with its influence, partly through the game, partly
by procuring a fortune of three thousand Pound annual income. For under the outer notes of levity,
the waste, the most excessive carelessness and audacity, he was the smartest man and cheaper,
the could give it. Now he was no longer young and lost with severe physical suffering the excesses
of his youth, but neither age nor disease had a significant Change in his character and his manners
produced. Whenever he opened his mouth, raged, cursed and swore he was still furious with such
vehemence that casual observer him as the most unruly rake. The large crowd did not understand that
a man who even in the fasting state, boastful and furious end to employers than others in the
Drunkenness, and who seemed to be completely unable to hide any emotion or keep a secret,
in fact a cold-hearted, far-sighted and wohlberechnender Minions could be. However, Talbot was
one such person. His hypocrisy was far higher and rarer species than those which had florirt
in Barebone's Parliament. For not one who is a consummate hypocrite, his viciousness behind
a dummy Goodness knows to hide, but he who the vice that he is not afraid of open to contribute
to the show, as larvae used to disguise darker and more remunerative vices what to hide in his
interest.

When Talbot was charged by James Earl of Tyrconnel, he had during the nine months between the
death of Karl's and the beginning of Lord Clarendon's government of the troops in Ireland commanded.
When the new Lord Lieutenant was in the process, from London to Dublin issued, the General from
Dublin to London was summoned. Dick Talbot had long been well known been all the way, he had
to be covered, and there were between Chester and the capital Guest
house in which he would not have had Handel.

Wherever he went, he pressed the law to mock horse, swore on the cooks and postilions, and led
by his outrageous Rodomontaden almost casseroles. The Reformation, he said to the people, everything
was ruined, but it would have come back good times, the Catholics would soon be back to normal
and then the heretics should pay for everything. So continually raging and blaspheming like a man
possessed He came to the court. [52] As soon as he arrived, he allied himself most closely with Castel
Maine, Dover and Alde Ville. People shouted unanimously for war against the Church and the
State Constitution. They said their commander, that he does his religion and the dignity of his
crown was guilty, by the cries of the heretical demagogues not to let them vex and Parliament
at the outset to imply that he intended to stay despite the opposition of the Lord effect and
the opposition nothing else will, as to make him a hard master.

[Note 52: Mémoires de Grammont + +, + Life of Edward, Earl of Clarendon +; correspondence of Henry Earl of
Clarendon to several places, especially the letter of 29 Dec. 1685, Sheridan Mspte. among the
Stuart papers, Ellis's correspondence of 12 Jan. 1686.]

[Disposition of the foreign ambassadors.] Each of the parties, in
which the Court was split, was eager foreign allies.

    The ambassadors of Spain, the German Empire and the States-General
    were now just trying so diligently to support Rochester, as
    previously Halifax had supported. Barillon offered his influence
    in the opposite direction on, and he was in it from a standing
    in the rank below it, in his talents but far superior Andren French
agent support: from Bonrepaux.

Barillon was not without diplomatic Ability and possessed a high degree the kindness and the
fine education, through the the then French nobility distinguished. But his mind was the requirements
his important post not equal. He had become phlegmatic and comfortable, loved social Amusements
and pleasures of the table over the affairs and development at major events usually only after
a vigorous activity when it admonitions and self referrals from Versailles had received [53]. Bonrepaux
had the prudence and activity, which he shown as secretary of the Navy Board, soared out of the darkness
and he was to learn the secrets of the trade policy. At the end of 1685 he was with several
special assignments of high importance to London sent. It should have a Commercial contract
negotiations should determine the condition of the English fleets and shipyards and report on, and
finally the Huguenot refugees, of which it was assumed they would be shortages and exile have
become so tame that it almost every condition of Reconciliation would be grateful for to make
some suggestions. The new ambassador was plebeian origin, his form was like a dwarf, his face
and his ridiculously ugly Gascon dialect of his home, but his bright mind, his rare insight and
his witty spirit enabled him quite excellent for his post. Despite its lower Origin, and his
repulsive appearance, he was soon to be a highly agreeable companion and skilled diplomat
known. While he joked with the Duchess of Mazarin, with Waller St. Evremond and discussed scientific
issues and corresponded with La Fontaine knew He managed to gain an accurate knowledge of the
English national affairs. His skill in naval affairs recommended him to James, who for many years
the business of the Admiralty much attention had turned to this business and so well understood
as it ever was able to understand something. They talked every day about the state of open Ships
and the wharf. The result of this intercourse was, as it was to be expected, that the wise and
vigilant Frenchman Jacob's skills and character despise thoroughly learned. He said the world had
overestimated his Britannic Majesty as much as they possess less formal and more virtues than Karl.
[54]

Although the two envoys of Louis the same purpose pursued, so they beat it wisely different routes. They
were divided into the yard; Bonrepaux wrong mainly with Rochester and its surroundings, Barillon
was especially with the opposite party name. The result was that they sometimes the same event by
different Aspects considered. The best clues that it gives about the quarrel, which White
Hall then moved to be found in their despatches.

[Note 53: See his later correspondence in several Points; St. Evremond ditto; the letters of
Madame de Sevigne to Beginning of 1689.

Also see the Instructions for you Tallard after the Peace of Ryswick, in the French Archives.]

[Note
54: St. Simon's memoirs, 1697, 1719; Evremond St., La Fontaine; Bonrepaux to Seignelay 28 Jan (February
7) and 8 (18) Feb. 1686th]

[Cleavage between the Pope and the Society of Jesus.] As each of the two parties at court Jacob
had a support of foreign princes, so was each of them by a church
Authority, before James had great respect for support.

    The Pope was for a legal temperate and procedures and the institutions
    of his views were the apostolic nuncio and the Vicar. [55] On the
    other side was a body whose weight even the weight of the Tantamount
    papacy: the powerful Jesuit order.
    

    That on this occasion these two great spiritual forces, which once
    separated appeared to be connected, faced hostile, is a very important
    and remarkable Circumstance.

For a period of more than a thousand years, the regular clergy, the Mainstay of the Holy See have
been. This chair she had against episcopal interference protected and the protection granted to them
had they richly repaid. Without their efforts would be the bishop of Rome probably only the honorary
head of a great prelate aristocracy been. With the help of Benedictine Gregory VII was able, at
the same time, the Frankish to fight the Emperor and the secular priesthood. With the aid of
the Dominicans and the Franciscans Innocent III destroyed. the Albigensian
sectaries.

[Note 55: Adda, 16 (26) Nov. 7, (17) Dec. and 21 (31) Dec. 1685th Adda gives in these dispatches
are substantial grounds for a Comparison by abolishing the penal laws and maintaining the Oath.
He called the dispute with the parliament gran a + " Disgrazia "+, and implied repeatedly that the
King had by a constitutional due process for Catholics gain much may attempt, however, their situation
by illegal means to , Would bring great harm likely to improve on it.]

[The Jesuit Order.] Was in the sixteenth century, the papacy, the
then new and was more terrible dangers threatened than ever before,
saved by a new religious order, with the ardent enthusiasm met and
organized with extraordinary skill was.

    As the Jesuits to save the Papacy appeared, it was hovering in the
    greatest danger, but from that moment the tide turned lucky. Protestantism,
    which for a whole All people age had carried away with it was hampered
    in its progress, and driven back with rapidity from the foot
    of the Alps to the shores of the Baltic Sea. The order was still
    not a hundred years, so he had the whole world with memorials
    great deeds and suffering for faith fulfilled. No religious community
    was a List of eminent men have so many ways, no other had the field
of their activity expanded to such an extent and yet no one ever had
such a perfect unity of the Thought and action prevailed.

There was no area of ​​the globe, not a field of scientific or practical life, not related to
the Jesuits. They guided the decisions the Kings, they deciphered Latin inscriptions, they observed
the orbits of the satellites of Jupiter, they gave out whole libraries: controversy, casuistry,
history, books on Optics, alcäische Oden, expenses of the church fathers, Madrigals, catechisms
and level. The higher Education of youth was almost entirely in their hands, and was of them with
excellent Skill passed. They had just discovered the point up to which one with the spiritual
Education can go without fear of spiritual emancipation. Even their enemies had , Concede that
in the arts to lead the youthful mind, and not to make their Had the same. In addition, they
used with great zeal and success the Kanzelberedtsamkeit. With even greater zeal and even
greater successes but they were dedicated to the service of the confessional. By the whole Catholic
Europe, they were in possession of the secrets of every government and almost every upstanding
family. Among countless shapes, elegant gentlemen, as a simple Countrymen as a Puritan preacher and she
slipped from a Protestant country in the other. They migrated to countries, their research or
mercantile greed or had caused scientific curiosity ever a stranger. She was found in Mandarin
dress in Beijing as a warden of the observatory, we found them with a spade in his hand in Paraguay,
where they taught the savages in the rudiments of agriculture. But where they may be and what they
want to drive too, her spirit was always and everywhere the same: unlimited Devotion to the common
cause and unconditional obedience to the central government. None of them has or had chosen the
profession itself. Whether at the Jesuit the Arctic Circle or live under the equator, whether
he should spend his days giving the Vatican to arrange gems and comparing handwriting, or so,
the savages of the southern hemisphere ask that they do not want to eat each other, these were
the questions whose decision He left with deep humility others. They needed him in Lima, he swam with
the next fleet to the Atlantic oceans, it was used in Baghdad, he waded with the next caravan
through the sands of the desert. There was need of his services in a country where his life was more
uncertain than that of a wolf, where it was a crime to harbor him, and where in the public
squares plugged heads and members of his brothers told him what he had to expect, he went to meet
without complaint and without hesitation to his fate. This heroic spirit of sacrifice is not now
extinct. As in our day a new and terrible disease around the world made the rounds, as in several
large cities the fear of all the bonds that hold together a society torn apart, when the secular
clergy leave their flocks had not buy as medical minds with money was, and even the strongest
natural affections of love had given way to life, found to the Jesuits at the bedside, the
bishop and priest, doctor and nurse, father and Mother had left, down inclined to the festering
lips to the faint hint of to catch last confession and the passing penitent sinner the image of the
dying Redeemer hold until the last moment.

But with the Society of Jesus own admirable energy, unselfishness and Self-denial were big mistakes
mixed. It was, and not without reason, claims that the ardent public spirit of the Jesuits
indifferent to his rest, his freedom and made his life, he also just as indifferent to truth and
compassion do that no way it seems without permission if it could promote the interest of his religion,
and that he understood the interest in his religion too often the interests of his order. It was
claimed that his role in the most abominable intrigues and conspiracies, of which tells the story
to see clearly is that he, only in the attachment unchangeable in his society, in some countries,
the greatest enemy of freedom, in others the most dangerous enemy was the order. The great victory,
which he in won cause of the Church were to have boasted, in the opinion of many excellent
Members of this church more apparent than real. He had indeed with what looks wonderful Successful
effort to subjugate the world its laws, but as he had done this, he had also relaxed the laws
to fit the spirit of the world. Rather than strive to human nature on the high, marked by divine
teachings and divine example raising stage, he had this level decreased, until it is below
the average level human nature was. He boasted of masses of converts, which in the remote areas
of the East had been baptized, but it was reported that many of these
converts the facts, based on which the whole doctrine of the Gospel,
has been fraudulently concealed were and that others could provide
protection against persecution, that, before the pictures false gods
knelt down while they prayed in silence Paternoster and Ave Maria.

And such tricks should not have been applied only in heathen lands. It No wonder that people
of all classes, and especially the highest, to the confessional the Jesuit temple crowded,
for no one left that confessionals unsatisfied. Here Allen was the priest everything. He was
just only so much severity, so that the spiritual before his Tribunal knee ends were not driven
in a Dominican or Franciscan church. If he was a truly pious soul before him, he spoke in the
holy tone of the first Fathers of the Church, but at the very large part of the people who
have religion enough to they worry if they have done something bad, but not enough to avoid evil,
He followed a very different system. Since he could not freely speak of the debt, It was his
business to keep them from repentance. He had an inexhaustible Stock of painkillers for wounded
conscience. In the casuistic works that were written by his brothers and printed with the permission
of his superiors, were consolations for the sinners of each class. The bankrupts were taught
how he, without a could commit sin to conceal his assets from his creditors. The servant was taught how
he, without committing a sin, could go through with the silver-finished his master.
 Such as are drunkards, whoremasters, liars, perjured persons, covetous, revilers,
extortionists, fornicators, swearers, possessed with devils, thieves, idolaters, witches, sorcerers,
conjurors, murderers, and the like (1 Cor 6:9,10; 2 Chron 33:1-13; Acts 2:36,37; 9:1-6; 19:9;
1 Tim 1:14-16). These are sinners, and such sinners that God hath prepared Heaven, happiness,
pardon of sin, and an inheritance of God, with Christ, with saints, with angels, if they do
come in and accept of grace, as I might prove at large; for God's grace is so great, that if
they do come to Him by Christ, presently all is forgiven them; therefore never object that
thy sins are too great to be pardoned; but come, taste and see how good the Lord is to any
whosoever come unto Him.

[SECOND.] The second thing is, How are these brought into this Everlasting Covenant of Grace?

Answ. When God doth in deed and in truth bring in a sinner into this most blessed covenant,
[Come to the Touchstone, sinner]. for so it is, He usually goeth this way--

First. He slays or kills the party to all things besides Himself, and His Son Jesus Christ,
and the comforts of the Spirit. For the clearing of this I shall show you, 1. With what God
kills; 2. How God kills; 3. To what God kills those whom He makes alive in Jesus Christ.

1. [What God kills]. When God brings sinners into the Covenant of Grace, He doth first kill
them with the Covenant of Works, which is the moral law, or Ten Commandments. This is Paul's
doctrine, and also Paul's experience. It is his doctrine where he saith, "The ministration
of death, written and engraven in stones--the ministration of condemnation," which is the law,
in that place called the letter, "killeth" (2 Cor 3:6-9). The letter, saith he, killeth; or
the law, or the ministration of death, which in another place is called "the voice of words"
(Heb 12:19), because they have no life in them, but rather death and damnation, through our
inability to fulfill them, doth kill (Rom 8:3; 2 Cor 6). It is his experience where he saith,
"I was alive" that is, to my own things, "without the law once," that is, before God did strike
him dead by it, "but when the commandment came," that is, to do and exercise its right office
on me, which was to kill me, then "sin revived, and I died," and I was killed. (Rom 7:9-11).

2. But how doth God kill with this law, or covenant?

1. By opening to the soul the spirituality of it--"The law is spiritual," saith he, "but I
am carnal, sold under sin" (Rom 7:14). Now the spirituality of the law is discovered this way--

(1.) By showing to the soul that every sinful thought is a sin against it. Ay, sinner, when
the law doth come home indeed upon thy soul in the spirituality of it, it will discover such
things to thee to be sins that now thou lookest over and regardest not; that is a remarkable
saying of Paul when he saith, "Sin revived, and I died." Sin revived, saith he; as if he had
said, Those things that before I did not value nor regard, but looked upon them to be trifles,
to be dead, and forgotten; but when the law was fastened on my soul, it did so raise them from
the dead, call them into mind, so muster them before my face, and put such strength into them,
that I was overmastered by them, by the guilt of them. Sin revived by the commandment, or my
sins had mighty strength, life, and abundance of force upon me because of that, insomuch that
they killed me (Matt 5:28).

(2.) It showeth that every such sin deserveth eternal damnation. Friends, I doubt there be
but few of you that have seen the spirituality of the law of works. But this is one thing in
which it discovereth its spirituality, and this is the proper work of the Law.

(3.) God, with a discovery of this, doth also discover His own Divine and infinite justice,
of which the law is a description, which backs what is discovered by the law, and that by discovering
of its purity and holiness to be so Divine, so pure, so upright, and so far of from winking
at the least sin, that He doth by that law, without any favour, condemn the sinner for that
sin (Gal 3:10). Now, when He hath brought the soul into this praemunire,13 into this puzzle, then,

2. He showeth to the soul the nature and condition of the law as to its dealings with, or forbearing
of, the sinner that hath sinned against it; which is to pass an eternal curse upon both soul
and body of the party so offending, saying to him, Cursed be the man that continueth not in
everything that is written in the Book of the Law to do it; for, saith the law, this is my
proper work; first, to show thee thy sins; and when I have done that, then, in the next place,
to condemn thee for them, and that without all remedy, as from ME, or anything within my bounds,
for I am not to save any, to pardon any--nay, not to favour any in the least thing that have
sinned against me; for God did not send me to make alive, but to discover sin, and to condemn
for the same. Now, so soon as this is presented to thy conscience, in the next place, the Lord
also by this law doth show that now there is no righteous act according to the tenor of that
covenant that can replieve him, or take him off from all this horror and curse that lies upon
him; because that is not an administration of pardon, as I said before, to forgive the sin,
but an administration of damnation, because of transgression. O, the very discovery of this
striketh the soul into a deadly swoon, even above half dead! But when God doth do the work
indeed, He doth, in the next place, show the soul that he is the man that is eternally under
this covenant by nature, and that it is he that hath sinned against this law, and doth by right
deserve the curse and displeasure of the same, and that all that ever he can do will not give
satisfaction to that glorious justice that did give this law; holy actions, tears of blood,
selling all, and giving it to the poor, or whatever else can be done by thee, it comes all
short and is all to no purpose (Phil 3). I will warrant him, he that seeth this, it will kill
him to that which he was alive unto before, though he had a thousand lives. Ah, sinners, sinners,
were you but sensible indeed of the severity and truth of this, it would make you look about
you to purpose! O, how would it make you strive to stop at that that now you drink down with
delight! How many oaths would it make you bite asunder! Nay, it would make you bite your tongues
to think that they should be used as instruments of the devil to bring your souls into such
an unspeakable misery; then also we should not have you hang the salvation of your souls upon
such slender pins as now you do; no, no; but you would be in another mind then. O, then we
should have you cry out, I must have Christ; what shall I do for Christ? how shall I come at
Christ? Would I was sure, truly sure of Christ. My soul is gone, damned, cast away, and must
for ever burn with the devils, if I do not get precious Jesus Christ!

3. In the next place, when God hath done this, then He further shows the soul that that covenant
which it is under by nature is distinct from the Covenant of Grace; and also they that are
under it are by nature without any of the graces which they have that are under the Covenant
of Grace; as, (1.) That it hath no faith (John 16:9). (2.) No hope (Eph 2:12). Nor none of
the Spirit to work these things in it by nature. (4.) Neither will that covenant give to them
any peace with God. (5.) No promise of safeguard from His revenging law by that covenant. (6.)
But lieth by nature liable to all the curses, and condemnings, and thunderclaps of this most
fiery covenant. (7.) That it will accept of no sorrow, no repentance, no satisfaction, as from
thee. (8.) That it calls for no less than the shedding of thy blood. (9.) The damnation of
thy soul and body. (10.) And if there be anything proffered to it by thee, as to the making
of it amends, it throws it back again as dirt in thy face, slighting all that thou canst bring.

Now, when the soul is brought into this condition, then it is indeed dead, killed to that to
which it was once alive. And therefore,

3. In the next place, to show you to what it is killed: and that is,

1. To sin. O, it dares not sin! it sees Hell-fire is prepared for them that sin, God's justice
will not spare it if it live in sin; the Law will damn it if it live in sin; the devil will
have it if it follows its sins. [Here I am speaking of one that is effectually brought in].
O, I say, it trembles at the very thoughts of sin! Ay, if sin do but offer to tempt the soul,
to draw away the soul from God, it cries, it sighs, it shunneth the very appearance of sin,
it is odious unto it. If God would but serve you thus that love your pleasures, you would not
make such a trifle of sin as you do.

2. It is killed to the Law of God as it is the Covenant of Works. O, saith the soul, the law
hath killed me to itself, "I through the law am dead to the law" (Gal 2:19). The law is another
thing than I did think it was. I thought it would not have been so soul-destroying, so damning
a law! I thought it would not have been so severe against me for my little sins, for my playing,
for my jesting, for my dissembling, quarreling, and the like. I had some thoughts, indeed,
that it would hew great sinners, but let me pass! and though it condemned great sinners, yet
it would pass me by! But now, would I were free from this covenant, would I were free from
this law! I will tell thee that a soul thus worked upon is more afraid of the Covenant of Works
than he is of the devil; for he sees it is the law that doth give him up into his hands for
sin; and if he was but clear from that, he should not greatly need to fear the devil. O, now
every particular command tears the caul of his heart; now every command is a great gun well
charged against his soul; now he sees he had as good run into a fire to keep himself from burning,
as to run to the law to keep himself from damning; and this he sees really, ay, and feels it
too, to his own sorrow and perplexity. 14

3. The soul also now is killed to his own righteousness, and counts that but dung, but dross,
not worth the dirt hanging on his shoes. O! then, says he, thou filthy righteousness! how hast
thou deceived me! How hast thou beguiled my poor soul! (Isa 64:6). How did I deceive myself
with giving of a little alms; with abstaining from some gross pollutions; with walking in some
ordinances, as to the outside of them! How hath my good words, good thinkings, good meanings,
as the world calls them, deceived my ignorant soul! I want the righteousness of faith, the
righteousness of God; for I see now there is no less will do me any good.

4. It is also killed to its own faith, its notion of the Gospel, its own hope, its own repentings,
its own promises and resolutions, to its own strength, its own virtue, or whatsoever it had
before. Now, saith the soul, that faith I thought I had, it is but fancy; that hope I thought
I had, I see it is by hypocritical, but vain and groundless hope. [These things would be too
tedious to enlarge upon]. Now the soul sees it hath by nature no saving faith, no saving hope,
no grace at all by nature, by the first covenant. Now it crieth out, How many promises have
I broken! and how many times have I resolved in vain, when I was sick at such a time, and in
such a strait at such a place! Indeed, I thought myself a wise man once, but I see myself a
very fool now. O, how ignorant am I of the Gospel now, and of the blessed experience of the
work of God on a Christian heart! In a word, it sees itself beset by nature with all evil,
and destitute of all good, which is enough to kill the stoutest, hardest-hearted sinner that
ever lived on the earth. O, friends, should you be plainly dealt withal by this discovery of
the dealing of God with a sinner when He makes him a saint, and would seriously try your selves
thereby, as God will try you one day, how few would there be found of you to be so much as
acquainted with the work of God in the notion, much less in the experimental knowledge of the
same! And indeed, God is fain to take this way with sinners, thus to kill them with the old
covenant to all things below a crucified Christ.

Six reasons of this discourse.

1. Because otherwise there would be none in the world that would look after this sweet Jesus
Christ. There are but a few that go to Heaven in all, comparatively; and those few God is fain
to deal with them in this manner, or else His Heaven, His Christ, His glory, and everlasting
happiness must abide by themselves, for all sinners. Do you think that Manasseh would have
regarded the Lord, had He not suffered his enemies to have prevailed against him? (2 Chron
33:1-16). Do you think that Ephraim would have looked after salvation, had not God first confounded
him with the guilt of the sins of his youth? (Jer 31:18). What do you think of Paul? (Acts
9:4-6). What do you think of the jailer? (Acts 16:30-32). What do you think of the three thousand?
(Acts 2:36,37). Was not this the way that the Lord was fain to take to make them close in with
Jesus Christ? Was He not fain to kill them to everything below a Christ, that were driven to
their wits' ends, insomuch that they were forced to cry out, "What shall we do to be saved?"
I say, God might have kept Heaven and happiness to Himself, if He should not go this way to
work with sinners. O stout-hearted rebels! O tender-hearted God!

2. Because then, and not till then, will sinners accept of Jesus Christ on God's terms. So
long as sinners can make a life out of anything below Christ, so long they will not close with
Christ without indenting; 15

But when the God of Heaven hath killed them to everything below Himself and His Son, then Christ
will down on any terms in the world. And, indeed, this is the very reason why sinners, when
they hear of Christ, yet will not close in with Him; there is something that they can take
content in besides Him. The prodigal, so long as he could content himself with the husks that
the swine did eat, so long he did keep him away from his father's house; but when he could
get no nourishment anywhere on this side of his father's house, then saith he, and not till
then, "I will arise, and go to my father," etc.

I say, this is the reason, therefore, why men come no faster, and close no more readily, with
the Son of God, but stand halting and indenting 16 about the terms they must have Christ upon;
for, saith the drunkard, I look on Christ to be worth the having; but yet I am not willing
to lose ALL for him; all but my pot, saith the drunkard; and all but the world, saith the covetous.
I will part with anything but lust and pride, saith the wanton. But if Christ will not be had
without I forsake all, cast away all, then it must be with me as it was with the young man
in the Gospel, such news will make me sorry at the very heart.

But now, when a man is soundly killed to all his sins, to all his righteousness, to all his
comforts whatsoever, and sees that there is no way but the devil must leave him, but he must
be damned in Hell if he be not clothed with Jesus Christ; O, then, saith he, give me Christ
on any terms, whatsoever He cost; though He cost me friends, though He cost me comforts, though
He cost me all that ever I have; yet, like the wise merchant in the Gospel, they will sell
all to get that pearl. I tell you, when a soul is brought to see its want of Christ aright,
it will not be kept back; father, mother, husband, wife, lands, livings, nay, life and all,
shall go rather than the soul will miss of Christ. Ay, and the soul counteth Christ a cheap
Saviour if he can get him upon any terms; now the soul indents17 no longer. Now, Lord, give
me Christ upon any terms, whatsoever He cost; for I am a dead man, a damned man, a castaway,
if I have not Christ. What say you, O you wounded sinners? Is not this true as I have said?
Would you not give ten thousand worlds, if you had so many, so be you might be well assured
that your sins shall be pardoned, and your souls and bodies justified and glorified at the
coming of the Lord Jesus Christ?

3. The Lord goeth this way for this reason also, that it might make the soul sensible what
it cost Christ to redeem it from death and Hell. When a man cometh to feel the sting and guilt
of sin, death and Hell upon his conscience, then, and not till then, can he tell what it cost
Christ to redeem sinners. O! saith the soul, if a few sins are so terrible, and lay the soul
under such wrath and torment, what did Christ undergo, who bare the sins of thousands and thousands,
and all at once?

This also is one means to make souls tender of sin (it is the burned child that feareth the
fire), to make them humble in a sense of their own vileness, to make them count everything
that God giveth them a mercy, to make much of the least glimpse of the love of God, and to
prize it above the whole world. O sinners, were you killed indeed [to sin], then Heaven would
be Heaven, and Hell would be Hell indeed; but because you are not wrought upon in this manner,
therefore you count the ways of God as bad as a good man counteth the ways of the devil, and
the ways of the devil and Hell as good as a saint doth count the ways of God.

4. Again, God is fain to go this way, and all to make sinners make sure of Heaven. So long
as souls are senseless of sin, and what a damnable state they are in by nature, so long they
will even dally with the Kingdom of Heaven and the salvation of their own poor souls; but when
God cometh and showeth them where they are, and what it is like to become of them if they miss
of the crucified Saviour, O, then, saith the soul, would I were sure of Jesus; what shall I
do to get assurance of Jesus? And thus is God forced, as I may say, to whip souls to Jesus
Christ, they being so secure, so senseless, and so much their own enemies, as not to look out
after their own eternal advantage.

5. A fifth reason why God doth deal thus with sinners it is, because He would bring Christ
and the soul together in a right way. Christ and sinners would never come together in a beloved
posture, they would not so suitably suit each other, if they were not brought together this
way, the sinner being killed. O, when the sinner is killed, and indeed struck dead to everything
below a naked Jesus, how suitably then doth the soul and Christ suit one with another. Then
here is a naked sinner for a righteousness Jesus, a poor sinner to a rich Jesus, a weak sinner
to a strong Jesus, a blind sinner to a seeing Jesus, an ignorant, careless sinner to a wise
and careful Jesus. O, how wise is God in dealing thus with the sinner! He strips him of his
own knowledge, that He may fill him with Christ's; He killeth him for taking pleasure in sin,
that he may take pleasure in Jesus Christ, etc.

6. God goeth this way with sinners, because He would have the glory of their salvation. Should
not men and women be killed to their own things, they would do sacrifice unto them, and instead
of saying to the Lamb, "THOU ART WORTHY," they would say their own arm, their own right hand
hath saved them; but God will cut off boasting from ever entering within the borders of eternal
glory; for He is resolved to have the glory of the beginning, the middle, and the end; of the
contriving, and saving, and giving salvation to them that enter in to the joys of everlasting
glory (Rom 3:27; Eph 2:8,9; Titus 3:5; Rev 5:9). "That they might be called trees of righteousness,
the planting of the LORD, that He might be glorified" (Isa 61:3). I might have run through
many things as to this; but I shall pass them, and proceed.

Second. Now, the soul being this killed to itself, [The soul that hath the right work of God
upon its heart, is not only killed to itself, but also made alive to Christ]. its sins, its
righteousness, faith, hope, wisdom, promises, resolutions, and the rest of its things which
it trusted in by nature; in the next place, it hath also given unto it a most glorious, perfect,
and never-fading life, which is--

1. A life imputed to it, yet so really, that the very thought of it in the soul hath so much
operation and authority, especially when the mediation of it is mixed with faith, as to make
it, though condemned by the law, to triumph, and to look its enemies in the face with comfort,
notwithstanding the greatness of the multitude, the fierceness of their anger, and the continuation
of their malice, be never so hot against it.

This imputed life--for so it is--is the obedience of the Son of God as His righteousness, in
His suffering, rising, ascending, interceding, and so consequently triumphing over all the
enemies of the soul, and given to me, as being wrought on purpose for me. So that, is there
righteousness in Christ? that is mine. Is there perfection in that righteousness? that is mine.
And I do count this a most glorious life; for by this means it is that I am, in the first place,
proclaimed both in Heaven and earth guiltless, and such an one who, as I am in Christ, am not
sinner, and so not under the law, to be condemned, but as holy and righteous as the Son of
God Himself, because He Himself is my holiness and righteousness, and so likewise having by
this all things taken out of the way that would condemn me. Have I the right work of God on
my soul? Answering myself, "No, surely"; and that because there were so many weaknesses in
me; yes, so many weaknesses in my best duties. For, thought I, how can such an one as I find
mercy, whose heart is so ready to evil, and so backward to that which is good, so far as it
is natural. (Rom 3:24). As if God had said, Sinner, thou thinkest because that thou hast had
so many infirmities and weaknesses in thy soul while thou hast been professing of Me, therefore
now there can be no hopes of mercy; but be it known unto thee, that it was not anything done
by thee at the first that moved Me to have mercy upon thee: neither is it anything that is
done by thee now that shall make me either accept or reject thee. Behold My Son, who standeth
by Me, He is righteous, He hath fulfilled My Law, and given me good satisfaction; on Him, therefore,
do I look, and on thee only as thou art in Him; and according to what He hath done, so will
I deal with thee. (Gal 2:20). "I lay down my life for the sheep." "I am come that they might
have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10,15). (Rom 5:10,21).

2. This life is not only imputed to him that is wrought on by the Spirit of Grace--that is,
not only counted his, but also there is put into the soul an understanding, enlightened on
purpose to know the things of God, which is Christ and His imputed righteousness (1 John 5:20)
which it never thought of nor understood before (1 Cor 2:9-11). Which understanding being enlightened
and made to see such things that the soul cannot be contented without it lay hold of and apply
Christ unto itself so effectually; I say, that the soul shall be exceedingly revived in a very
heavenly measure with the application of this imputed righteousness; for thereby it knoweth
it shall find God speaking peace to itself, with a fatherly affection, saying, "Be of good
cheer, thy sins are forgiven thee"; the righteousness of My Son I bestow upon thee; "For what
the law could not do, in that it was weak through thee," thy "flesh," "I have sent forth My
only Son, and have condemned" thy sins in His flesh (Rom 8:3). And though thou hast gone astray
like a lost sheep, yet on Him I have laid thine iniquities; and though thou thereby didst undo
and break thyself for ever, yet by His stripes I have healed thee. Thus, I say, the Lord causeth
the soul by faith to apply that which He doth by grace impute unto it, for thus every soul
more or less is dealt withal; the soul being thus enlightened, thus quickened, thus made alive
from that dead state it was in before, or at least having the beginnings of this life, it hath
these several virtuous advantages, which they have not that are dead in their sins and trespasses,
and under the law--

[Advantages possessed by the quickened].

First. It seeth what a sad condition all men by nature are in, they being in that state which
itself was in but a while since; but now by grace it is a beginning to scrabble 19 out of it;
now it seeth "the whole world lieth in wickedness," and so liable to eternal vengeance, because
of their wickedness (1 John 5:19). Ah, friends, let me tell you, though you may be ignorant
of your state and condition, yet the poor, groaning, hungering saints of God do see what a
sad, woeful, miserable state you are in, which sometimes makes them tremble to think of your
most lamentable latter end, your dying so, and also to fly the faster to their Lord Jesus,
for very fear that they also should be partakers of that most doleful doom. [Like as the children
of Israel, who fled for fear when the ground opened its mouth to swallow up Korah and his company].
And this it hath by virtue of its own experience, knowing itself was but awhile ago in the
same condition, under the same condemnation. O! there is now a hearth blessing of God that
ever He should show to it its sad condition, and that He should incline its heart to seek after
a better condition. O blessed be the Lord! saith the soul, that ever He should awaken me, stir
up me, and bring me out of that sad condition that I once with them was in (Psa 103:1-3). It
makes also the soul to wonder to see how foolishly and vainly the rest of its neighbours do
spend their precious time, that they should be so void of understanding, so forgetful of their
latter end, so senseless of the damning nature of their sins. O that their eyes were but enlightened
to see whereabouts they are! surely they would be of another mind than they are now in. Now,
the soul wonders to see what slender pins those poor creatures do hang the stress of the eternal
salvation of their souls upon. O! methinks, saith the soul, it makes me mourn to see that some
should think that they were born Christians; and others, that their baptism makes them so;
20 others depend barely upon a traditional, historical faith, which will leave their souls
in the midst of perplexity. That they should trust to such fables, fancies, and wicked sleights
of the devil, as their good doings, their good thinkings, their civil walking and living with
the world. O miserable profession, and the end thereof will be a miserable end!

But now, when the souls is thus wrought upon, it must be sure to look for the very gates of
Hell to be set open against it with all their force and might to destroy it. Now Hell rageth,
the devil roareth, and all the world resolveth to do the best they can to bring the soul again
into bondage and ruin. MS. 6845th +]

[Note 48: Buyse's statement in the Collection of State
+ Trials +, + + 642 Burnet I.;.

    Ferguson's MS + +, quoted by Eachard].
    

[Rebel clash with militia in Bridport.] The position of the insurgents was the Loss of a man
of talent and energy to not replace easily. In the early morning of following day, the 14th
June, broke in the company of Grey on Wade's five hundred men to Bridport attack. There was
a confused and undecided battle lasting, as it between two clusters of farmers, who were commanded
by country gentlemen and lawyers, was to be expected. For a time, pushing back Monmouth's
men, the militia, then but this was again taken and first in considerable confusion to escape.
Grey and the horsemen were not to rest until they were safe again in Lyme, Wade however, collected
the infantry and took it in good order [49].

All grumbled loudly against Grey, and some of the adventurers invaded in Monmouth, a strict Example
statuiren to. Monmouth but wanted to hear about it. Some writers have this indulgence of his
good nature attributed to the limited but often weak; others suspect that he would not proceed
against the hard single peer, which in its Army served. However, it is likely that the Duke,
who does not have excellent general was, but in any event by the war much longer understood as the
priests and lawyers, the were not going to force upon their advice, considerations to which
people in the Military Matters are quite inexperienced, but had never thought of. To a man
who defender has had little to do justice, must be noted that the Lord Grey during the whole
campaign allotted task of the kind was that he, even if he had been the boldest and most skillful
soldier, would hardly in a way can solve that has benefited him in praise. He was at the head
of the cavalry, but it is a well-known thing that a lot of cavalrymen prolonged exercise will
require as a foot soldier, and Kavaleriepferd that a school needs a much longer than its rider.
With an inexperienced Infantry, when animated by enthusiasm and physical courage is, can at
some be aligned, but nothing can be as a clumsily from agriculturists and Merchants and mail to Karrengäulen
existing inexperienced cavalry horses, and of such Art was the one which commanded Grey. It must
not be surprised that these people in Fire is not decided as of, and that they were not able
to use their weapons made, but the fact that they were able to get at all, only in the saddle.

There
are still hundreds of recruits arrived, the whole day was armed and einexercirt. Meanwhile,
the news came out of the rebellion quickly and far. Still the same Evening on which the Duke
had landed, sent the Mayor of Lyme, Greg Alford, a ardent Tory and
extremely violent persecutor of the Nonconformists, his servants,
to add the to alarm sirens gentry of Somersetshire and Dorsetshire,
while he himself according to the horse West rushed.

Late at night he stopped in Honiton and sent from there a few fleeting dashed-line with the
dire message to London [50]. Then he hurried on to Exeter, where he found Christopher Monk, Duke
of Albemarle. This gentleman, the son and heir George Monk's, the restorer of the Stuarts,
was Lord Lieutenant of Devonshire, and held then just mustering the militia. He had time to
four thousand men at his disposal, and with this force he believed the insurgency suppress
all at once can be. He therefore marched to Lyme.

[Note 49: + London Gazette, June 18th 1685 +; + Wade's Confession +;. Hardwicke + Papers +]

[Note
50: + Lords' Journals, June 13th 1685th +]

[Skirmish between the rebels and the militia in Axminster.] But when he on Monday afternoon 15
Axminster reached in June, he found the insurgents set up ready for
him to receive.

    They showed him a very respectable border fronts, four
    parcels of land were against the royal troops and directed the dense
hedges, which on both sides of the narrow Shaded street were filled
with musketeers.

    The arrangements of the enemy distressed However, Albemarle is less
than the spirit that began to speak in his own ranks.

Monmouth was among the common people of Devonshire so popular that the whole militia probably
in bulk to him was when she saw Monmouth's well-known face and figure.

Albemarle considered it, despite its great superiority of forces it advisable to withdraw.
The retreat soon turned into a rout. The whole area was with the weapons and Uniform pieces strewn,
who had thrown away the fugitives, and the prosecution would Monmouth pursued vigorously, he
would have probably taken Exeter without a blow. But he was satisfied with the benefits gained and
considered it desirable that his recruits better to practice first,
before it used to risky ventures.

He therefore marched to Taunton, where he was on 18 June, just a week after landing arrived [51].

[Note 51:. + + Wade's Confession; Ferguson MS + +; Axe Papers + +; + Harl. MS. 6845 +; + Oldmixon,
701, 702nd + Oldmixon, who was then was a boy, lived near the scene of the Events.]

[The News of the rebellion is coming to London.] The Court and Parliament were on the News from
the West not a little frightened.

    On Saturday the 13th June by five clock in the morning the king had
    received the letter sent by the Mayor of Honiton Lyme him. The Privy
    Council was convened immediately, were given orders that the infantry
    regiments and the cavalry squadron should be strengthened, and commissions
for recruitment of new teams appointed.

[Loyalty of Parliament.] Alford's report was presented to the Lords and the main content communicated
the same to the churches. This examined the news arrived from the West and immediately brought in a bill,
soft Monmouth condemned for treason. Addresses were votirt which assured the king that his peers both
as well as his people decided had to help him with life and property
against his enemies. possessed, in its next meeting The two houses
that the declaration of the rebels was to be burned by the hangman;
and let the Verurtheilungsbill go through at all stages.

The Bill was still the same Day the royal assent and on Monmouth's seizure was a reward of five
thousand Pound set [52].

The fact that Monmouth was in arms against the government, was so undeniable that Verurtheilungsbill
the weak against the resistance of only a few peers to the Law was collected and was even blamed
by Whig historians rarely strictly is. If we consider, however, how important it is that legislative
and judicial functions separate the time how important it is also found that a mere rumor, so
strong and general it may be, will not be accepted as legal proof of guilt, the importance of finally
is to maintain the rule that one shall be condemned to death without
it the opportunity have added to his defense, and how easily and quickly
once the breaches committed great principles be extended further,
we might well be inclined to the view that the Parliament against
the observed process could make some reservations.

None of the two houses was present, the least that even so unscrupulous judges as Jeffreys a
jury as evidence of Monmouth's debt would have to represent. The questioned by the Commons Messengers
were not sworn in and their communications could be purely out of thin air be without that they
therefore can be prosecuted for perjury. The Lords, who, as a court, an oath would have able to take
examinirten no witnesses and had no other proofs before him, as the letter from the Mayor of
Lyme, in the eyes of the law even No evidence was. The extreme danger they sometimes justify extreme
measure, but the Verurtheilungsacte was a means that could be brought into effect if any danger
was past, and therefore from the moment when it ceased to have effect to be, was quite unnecessary.
As long as Monmouth was in arms, it was impossible for him to execute, and he was defeated and
captured, so it had no danger nor difficulty him to justice. Later, it was highlighted as a curious
fact that among the zealous Tories, which the bill from the House of Commons before the bar
The Lords argued that Sir John Fenwick, was MP for Northumberland, [53]. This Lord had a few years
later the opportunity to reflect on the matter, and he came to the Conclusion that Verurtheilungsbills
were not fully justify.

The Parliament in this hour of danger or other proof of loyalty. The Commons authorized the king
to pay for momentary needs an extraordinary to raise the sum of four hundred thousand pounds,
and that he get the money without difficulty, pondered them in new taxes. The plan, in the
capital recently for new houses Was taxed by the country gentlemen resumed and eagerly supported.
It was not only decided that these houses should be taxed, but also that a Bill should be introduced,
each new foundation stone was laid within the city limits of London banned. The decision was not executed.
Influential men who in suburban land and had hoped that new roads on their estates and places
would charge, offered on everything to thwart this plan. It was understood that would require much
time to regulate the details of such a law, and the Needs of the king were so urgent that we
deemed it necessary to negotiate of the house by a polite reminder to speed up the rush. The
idea of ​​taxing houses was abandoned and on the other hand, for
the next five years new duties foreign Silks, Leinenwaaren and spirits
down [54].

The Tories in the House sitting now fallen for introducing a bill for so-called Security of person
and the Government of the King. They suggested that it should for treason be explained if someone
said that Monmouth was legitimate, or words said that it aimed, the person or the government
of the sovereign hateful or make contemptible or if someone presented in Parliament a request
for amendment of the order of succession. Some from these provisions aroused general indignation
and abhorrence. The Whigs tried despite their small numbers and their weakness, to connect,
and they were an important Number of moderate and judicious Cavaliers strengthened. Words,
they said, could easily be misunderstood by honest men, but from rogue misinterpreted; visual
Expressions could be taken literally and presented humorous comments as seriously meant be.
A particle, a tense, a mode, the emphasis could all the difference between Establish guilt or
innocence. Is indeed the Savior himself, in his purity of life, the No evidence of any malice could
not find an allegation, because spoken Words had been drawn into the investigation. False
witnesses had left out a syllable by which would have been clearly
demonstrated that those words were meant figuratively, and "thus the
Sanhedrin provided a pretext under which the most shameful of all
judicial murders had been committed.

Who could, with such examples before his eyes, say that if mere speeches already a On treason
charges justified, the loyal subjects was safe? These arguments made such an impression that
was made in committee for improvements, which Hardness of the bill softened considerably,
but the clause which declared it treason when a Member of Parliament, the exclusion of a prince
of the blood requested from the throne, seems to have provoked no debate and was accepted. She
had only insofar meaning, as it demonstrates the ignorance and inexperience of the hot-blooded
Royalists, was who filled the House. If they had only the first rudiments of legislation known,
they would have realized that the provision on which they so much stress submitted had to be
unnecessary as long as the Parliament was inclined to maintain the order of succession, and that
they would be withdrawn once a parliament had the intention to amend the same [55].

The Bill went through in their improved version and was presented to the Lords, but not become
law. The king had obtained from Parliament a financial support, as he could only expect, and
he realized that as long as the insurgency raged, the loyal members the nobility and gentry in their
counties could do more good than in Westminster. He therefore urged their negotiations to a speedy
conclusion, and dismissed on 3 July. To the same day received a law that expired with the 1679
censorship again introduced, the royal assent. This item has a few words on the end of a off
than mixed law, which extended several dying laws. The followers The Court did not think that they
had won a victory and the Whigs expressed quite no dissatisfaction. Neither the Lords nor the
Commons came to a vote, yes, as far as one can see it now, can not even be a debate on a question
which shake in our time the whole structure of society would. The change was also in fact, insignificant
and hardly noticeable, as had been the discovery of Ryehousecomplots the freedom to print without
censorship may be, existed in name only. For many months was hardly a directed against the
court pamphlet was printed differently than secretly, and secretly such pamphlets were still able to be
published [56].

The houses now completed their sessions, they were not prorogued,
but only postponed it they could absorb exactly at their next meeting
of the shops in the state again as they had left them [57].

 But being through grace kept close with
God, in some measure, in prayer and the rest of the ordinances, but went about a year and upwards
without any sound evidence as from God to my soul touching the salvation that comes by Jesus
Christ. But, at the last, as I may say, when the set time was come, the Lord, just before the
men called Quakers came into the country, did set me down so blessedly in the truth of the
doctrine of Jesus Christ, that it made me marvel to see, first, how Jesus Christ was born of
a virgin, walked in the world awhile with His disciples, afterwards hanged on the Cross, spilt
His blood, was buried, rose again, ascended above the clouds and heavens, there lives to make
intercession, and that He also will come again at the last day to judge the world, and take
His saints unto Himself.

These things, I say, I did see so evidently, even as if I had stood when He was in the world,
and also when He was caught up. I having such a change as this upon my soul, it made me wonder;
and musing with myself at the great alteration that was in my spirit--for the Lord did also
very gloriously give me in His precious Word to back the discovery of the Son of God unto me,
so that I can say, through grace, it was according to the Scriptures (1 Cor 15:1-4). Reader,
I speak in the presence of God, and He knows I lie not; much of this, and such like dealings
of His, could I tell thee of; but my business at this time is not so to do, but only to tell
what operation the blood of Christ hath had over and upon my conscience, and that at several
times, and also when I have been in several frames of spirit.

Again; sometimes when my heart hath been hard, dead, slothful, blind, and senseless, which
indeed are sad frames for a poor Christian to be in, yet at such a time, when I have been is
such a case, then hath the blood of Christ, the precious blood of Christ, the admirable blood
of the God of Heaven, that run out of His body when it did hang on the Cross, so softened,
livened, quickened, and enlightened my soul, that truly, reader, I can say, O it makes me wonder!

Again; when I have been loaden with sin, and [I cannot stand here to tell thee of particular
temptations]. pestered with several temptations, and in a very sad manner, then have I had
the trial of the virtue of Christ's blood with the trial of the virtue of other things; and
I have found that when tears would not do, prayers would not do, repentings and all other things
could not reach my heart; O then, one touch, one drop, one shining of the virtue of the blood,
of that blood that was let out with the spear, it hath in a very blessed manner delivered me,
that it hath made me to marvel. O! methinks it hath come with such life, such power, with such
irresistible and marvelous glory, that it wipes off all the slurs, silences all the outcries,
and quenches all the fiery darts, and all the flames of Hell-fire, that are begotten by the
charges of the Law, Satan, and doubtful remembrances of my sinful life.

Friends, as Peter saith to the church, so I say to you, I have not preached to you cunningly
devised fables in telling you of the blood of Christ, and what authority it hath had upon my
conscience; O no, but as Peter saith touching the coming of the Lord Jesus into the world,
so in some measure I can say of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that was shed when He did
come into the world. There is not only my single testimony touching this; no, but there are
all the Prophets do agree in advancing this in writing, and also all the saints do now declare
the same, in speaking forth the amiableness and many powerful virtues thereof. "As for Thee
also, by the blood of Thy covenant," saith God to Christ, "I have sent forth Thy prisoners
out of the pit wherein is no water" (Zech 9:11). "We have redemption through His blood" (Eph
1:7). Again, "We have redemption through His blood" (Col 1:14). The devil is overcome through
"the blood of the Lamb" (Rev 12:11). Yea, and conscience is purged, too, and that through the
blood of the Lamb (Heb 9:14). We have free recourse to the Throne of Grace through the blood
of Jesus (Heb 10:19). I could bring thee a cloud of witnesses out of all the types and shadows,
and out of the sundry Prophets, and much more out of the New Testament, but I forebear, because
I would not be too tedious to the reader in making too large a digression, though I have committed
here in this discourse no transgression, for the blood of Christ is precious blood (1 Peter
1:18,19).

THIRD. THE PRIVILEGES OF THE NEW COVENANT.

In the next place, I shall show you the several privileges and advantages that the man or woman
hath that is under this Covenant of Grace, over what they have that are under the Covenant
of the Law and Works. As,

First. The Covenant of Grace is not grounded upon our obedience, but upon God's love, even
His pardoning love to us through Christ Jesus. The first covenant is stood to be broken or
kept by us, and God's love or anger to be lost or enjoyed thereafter as we, as creatures, behaved
ourselves; but now, the very ground of the Covenant of Grace is God's love, His mere love through
Jesus Christ--"The LORD did not set His love upon you, nor choose you, because ye were more
in number than any people; for ye were the fewest of all people: but because the LORD loved
you, and because He would keep the oath which He had sworn unto your fathers" (Deu 7:7,8).
Again, "In His love and in His pity He redeemed them," "and the angel of His presence saved
them," that is, Jesus Christ (Isa 63:9).

Second. This love is not conveyed to us through what we have done, as is before proved, but
through what He hath done with Whom the covenant was made, which was given us in Christ--According
as He hath chosen us in Christ. "Who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly
places in Christ." "God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you," that is, through Christ's doings,
through Christ's sufferings (2 Tim 1:9; Eph 1:3,4; 4:32). Now if this be but rightly understood,
it doth discover abundance of comfort to them, that are within the bounds of the Covenant of
Grace. For,

1. Here a believer seeth he shall stand, if Christ's doings and sufferings stand; which is
sure foundation, for God dealeth with him through Christ. And so, secondly, he shall not fall,
unless the suffering and merits of Christ be thrown over the bar, being found guilty, which
will never be, before the eyes of Divine justice; for with Him the covenant was made, and He
was the Surety of it; that is, as the covenant was made with Him, so He stood bound to fulfill
the same (Zech 9:11; Heb 7:22). For you must understand that the covenant was made between
the Father and the Son long before it was accomplished, or manifestly sealed with Christ's
blood; it was made before the world began (Titus 1:2; Eph 1:4; 1 Peter 1:18-20). But the conditions
thereof were not fulfilled until less than two thousand years ago; and all that while did Jesus
stand bound as a surety, as I said before, is used to do, till the time in which the payment
should be made. And it was by virtue of His Suretyship, having bound Himself by covenant to
do all things agreed on by the Father and Him, that all those of the election that were born
before He came, that they might be saved, and did enter into rest. For the forgiveness of sins
that were past, though it was through the blood of Christ, yet it was also through the forbearance
of God (Rom 3:25). That is, Christ becoming Surety for those that died before His coming, that
He should in deed and in truth, at the fullness of time, or at the time appointed, give a complete
and full satisfaction for them according to the tenor or condition of the covenant. (Gal 4:4).
Again,

2. The second covenant, which believers are under, as the ground and foundation, if it is safe,
so the promises thereof are better, surer, freer, and fuller, etc.

(1.) They are better, if you compare the excellency of the one with the excellency of the other.
The first hath promised nothing but an early paradise--Do this, and thou shalt live; namely,
here in an earthly paradise. But the other doth bring the promise of a heavenly paradise.

(2.) As the Covenant of Works doth promise an earthly paradise, yet it is a paradise or blessing,
though once obtained, yet might be lost again; for no longer than thou doest well, no longer
art thou blessed by that. O, but the promises in the new covenant do bring unto us the benefit
of an eternal inheritance--That "they which are called might receive the promise of eternal
inheritance." O rare! it is an "eternal inheritance" (Heb 9:15).

(3.) The other, as it is not so good as this, so neither is it so sure as this; and therefore
he calls the one such an one as might be, and was, shaken, but this is said to be such an one
that cannot be shaken. Therefore, ye blessed saints, seeing you have received a kingdom "which
cannot be moved," therefore, "let us have grace, whereby we may serve" our "God acceptably
with reverence and godly fear."

Thus in general, but more particularly.

(4.) They are surer, in that they are founded upon God's love also, and they come to us without
calling for those things at our hands that may be a means of putting of a stop to our certain
enjoying of them. The promises under, or for the law, they might easily be stopped by our disobedience;
but the promises under the Gospel say, "If Heaven above can be measured, and the foundations
of the earth searched," then, and not till then, "I will also cast off all the seed of Israel
for all that they have done" (Jer 31:37). Again, "I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions
for Mine own" name's "sake, and will not remember thy sins" (Isa 43:25). I will make thee a
partaker of My promise; and that I may so do, I will take away that which would hinder; "I
will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea," that My promise may be sure to all the
seed; and therefore, saith the Apostle, when he would show us that the new-covenant promises
were more sure than the old, he tells us plainly that the law and works are set aside and they
are merely made ours through the righteousness of faith, which is the righteousness of Christ--"For
the promise, that he [Abraham] should be the heir of the world," saith he, "was not to Abraham,
or to his seed, through the law," or works, "but through the righteousness of faith. Therefore
it is of faith--to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed" (Rom 4:13-14,16).

(5.) Surer, because that as that is taken away that should hinder, so they are committed to
a faithful Friend of ours in keeping. For all the promises of God are in Christ, not yea and
nay, but yea and amen; certain and sure; sure, because they are in the hand of our Head, our
Friend, our Brother, our Husband, our flesh and bones, even in the heart and hand of our precious
Jesus.

(6.) Because all the conditions of them are already fulfilled for us by Jesus Christ, as aforesaid;
every promise that is a new-covenant promise, if there be any condition in it, our Undertaker
hath accomplished that for us, and also giveth us such grace as to receive the sweetness as
doth spring from them through His obedience to every thing required in them.

(7.) Surer, because that as they are grounded upon the love of God, everything is taken out
of the way, in the hand of a sure Friend. And has Christ has fulfilled every condition as to
justification that is contained therein, so the Lord hath solemnly sworn with an oath for our
better confidence in this particular--"For when God made promise to Abraham," and so to all
the saints, "because He could swear by no greater, He sware by Himself, saying, Surely, blessing
I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. And so, after he had patiently endured,
he obtained the promise. For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation
is to them an end of all strife," that there might be no more doubt or scruple concerning the
certain fulfilling of the promise. (Heb 6:13-18).

(8.) That they are better it appears also in that they are freer and fuller. That they are
freer, it is evident, in that one saith, No works, no life--Do this, and then thou shalt live;
if not, thou shalt be damned. The one saith, Pay me that thou owest; the other say, I do frankly
and freely forgive thee all. The one saith, Because thou hast sinned, thou shalt die; the other
saith, Because Christ lives, thou shalt live also (John 15).

(9.) And as they are freer, so they are fuller; fuller of encouragement, fuller of comfort;
the one, to wit, the law, looks like Pharaoh's seven ill-favoured kine, more ready to eat one
up than to afford us any food; the other is like the full grape in the cluster, which for certain
hath a glorious blessing in it. The one saith, If thou hast sinned, turn again; the other saith,
If thou hast sinned, thou shalt be damned, for all I have a promise in me.

3. They that are of the second are better than they that are of the first; and it also appeareth
in this--The promises of the Law, through them we have neither faith, nor hope, nor the Spirit
conveyed; but through the promises of the Gospel there are all these--"Whereby are given unto
us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these we might be partakers of the Divine
nature" (2 Peter 1:4). O therefore "let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering;
for He is faithful that promised" (Heb 10:23). (Titus 1:2).

4. They that are in this covenant are in a very happy state; for though there be several conditions
in the Gospel to be done, yet Christ Jesus doth not look that they should be done by man, as
man, but by His own Spirit in them, as it is written, "Thou hast wrought all our works in us."
Is there that condition, they must believe? Why, then, He will be both the "author and finisher
of their faith" (Heb 12:2,3). Is there also hope to be in His children? He also doth and hath
given them "good hope through His grace" (2 Thess 2:16). Again, are the people of God to behave
themselves to the glory of God the Father? then He will work in them "both to will and to do
of His own good pleasure" (Phil 2:13).

5. Again, as He works all our works in us and for us, so also by virtue of this covenant we
have another nature given unto us, whereby, or by which we are made willing to be glorifying
of God, both in our bodies and in our spirits, which are His--"Thy people shall be willing
in the day of Thy power" (1 Cor 6:20; Psa 110:3).

6. In the next place, all those that are under this second covenant are in a wonderful safe
condition; for in case they should slip or fall after their conversion into some sin or sins
for who lives and sins not? But when He comes to speak of the Covenant of Grace, speaking first
of the public person under the name of David, He saith thus, "He shall cry unto Me, Thou art
My Father, My God, and the rock of My salvation. Also I will make Him My firstborn, higher
than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for Him for evermore, and My covenant shall
stand fast with Him. Nevertheless My lovingkindness will I not utterly take from Him, nor suffer
My faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out
of My lips. It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven"
(Psa 89:26-37). "My covenant shall stand fast with him"--mark that. As if God had said, I did
not make this covenant with man, but with My Son, and with Him I will perform it; and seeing
He hath given Me complete satisfaction, though His children do, through infirmity, transgress,
yet My covenant is not therefore broken, seeing He with whom it was made standeth firm, according
to the desire of my heart; so that My justice that is satisfied, and My Law, hath nothing to
say, for there is no want of perfection in the sacrifice of Christ. If you love your souls,
and would have them live in the peace of God, to the which you are called in one body, even
all believers, then I beseech you seriously to ponder, and labour to settle in your souls this
one thing, that the new covenant is not broken by our transgressions, and that because it was
not made with us. The reason why the very saints of God have so many ups and downs in this
their travel towards Heaven, it is because they are so weak in the faith of this one thing;
for they think that if they fail of this or that particular performance, if their hearts be
dead and cold, and their lusts mighty and strong, therefore now God is angry, and now He will
shut them out of His favour, now the new covenant is broken, and now Christ Jesus will stand
their Friend no longer; now also the devil hath power again, and now they must have their part
in the resurrection of damnation; when, alas! the covenant is not for all this never the more
broken, and so the grace of God no more straitened than it was before. And what was that? Why,
that "His seed shall endure for ever, and His throne as the sun before Me" (Psa 89:30-34,36).

7. Another privilege that the saints have by virtue of the new covenant is, that they have
part of the possession or hold of Heaven and Glory already, and that two manner of ways--(1.)
The Divine nature is conveyed from Heaven into them; and, secondly, the human nature, i.e.,
the nature of man, is received up, and entertained in, and hath got possession of Heaven. We
have the first-fruits of the Spirit, saith the man of God; we have the earnest of the Spirit,
which is instead of the whole, for it is the earnest of the whole--"Which is the earnest of
our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of His glory"
(Eph 1:13,14; Rom 8:8-11). (2.) The nature of man, our nature is got into glory as the first-fruits
of mankind, as a forerunner to take possession till we all come thither (1 Cor 15:20). For
the Man born at Bethlehem is ascended, which is part of the lump of mankind, into glory as
a public Person, as the first-fruits, representing the whole of the children of God; so that
in some sense it may be said that the saints have already taken possession of the kingdom of
Heaven by their Jesus, their public Person, He being in their room entered to prepare a place
for them (John 14:1-4). I beseech you consider, when Jesus Christ came down from Glory, it
was that He might bring us to Glory; and that He might be sure not to fail, He clothed Himself
with our nature, as if one should take a piece out of the whole lump instead of the whole,
until the other comes, and investeth it in that glory which He was in before He came down from
Heaven (Heb 2:14,15). And thus is that saying to be understood, speaking of Christ and His
saints, which saith, "And" (Eph 2:6).

8. Again, not only thus, but all the power of God, together with the rest of His glorious attributes,
are on our side, in that they dwell in our nature, which is the Man Jesus, and doth engage
for us poor, simple, empty, nothing creatures as to our eternal happiness (1 Peter 1:5). "For
in Him," that is, in the Man Christ, who is our nature, our Head, our root, our flesh, our
bone, "dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily" (Col 2:9,10). Mark how they are joined
together, "In whom dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead. And ye are complete in Him." God dwelleth
completely in Him, and you also are completely implanted in Him, which is the Head of all principality
and power; and all this by the consent of the Father--"For it pleased the Father that in Him
should all fullness dwell" (Col 1:19). Now mark, the Godhead doth not dwell in Christ Jesus
for Himself only, but that it may be in a way of righteousness conveyed to us, for our comfort
and help in all our wants--"All power is given unto Me in heaven and in earth," saith He (Matt
28:18). And then followeth, "And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Verse
20). "He hath received gifts for men, yea for the rebellious" (Psa 68:18). "Of His fullness
have all we received, and grace for grace" (John 1:16). And this the saints cannot be deprived
of, because the covenant made with Christ, in every tittle of it, was so completely fulfilled
as to righteousness, both active and passive, that justice cannot object anything; holiness
now can find fault with nothing; nay, all the power of God cannot shake anything that hath
been done for us by the Mediator of the new covenant; so that now there is no Covenant of Works
to a believer; none of the commands, accusations, condemnations, or the least tittle of the
old covenant to be charged on any of those that are the children of the second covenant; no
sin to be charged, because there is no law to be pleaded, but all is made up by our middle
man, Jesus Christ. O blessed covenant! O blessed privilege! Be wise, therefore, O ye poor drooping
souls that are the sons of this second covenant, and "stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ
hath made you free, and be not entangled AGAIN," nor terrified in your consciences, "with the
yoke of bondage"; neither the commands, accusations, or condemnations of the Law of the old
covenant (Gal 5:1).

Two Hell-bred objections answered.

Object. If it be so, then one need not care what they do; they may sin and sin again, seeing
Christ hath made satisfaction. [The first objection].

Answ. If I were to point out one that was under the power of the devil, and going post-haste
to Hell, for my life I would look no farther for such a man than to him that would make such
a use as this of the grace of God. And let me tell thee this before I leave thee--as God's
covenant with Christ for His children, which are of faith, stands sure, immutable, unrevocable,
and unchangeable, so also hath God taken such a course with thee, that unless thou canst make
God forswear Himself, it is impossible that thou shouldst go to Heaven, dying in that condition--"They
tempted Me, proved Me," and turned the grace of God into lasciviousness, "so I sware," mark
that, "so I sware," and that in My wrath, too, that they should never enter into My rest. Compare
Hebrews 3:9-11, with 1 Corinthians 10:5-10. No, saith God; if Christ will not serve their turns,
but they must have their sins too, take them, Devil; if Heaven will not satisfy them, take
them, Hell; devour them, Hell; scald them, fry them, burn them, Hell! God hath more places
than one to put sinners into. If they do not like Heaven, He will fit them with Hell; if they
do not like Christ, they shall be forced to have the devil.

Object. But if Christ hath given God a full and complete satisfaction, then though I do go
on in sin, I need not fear, seeing God hath already been satisfied. [The second objection].
It will be injustice in God to punish for those sins for which He is already satisfied for
by Christ.

Answ. Rebel, rebel, there are some in Christ and some out of Him. [1]. They that are in Him
have their sins forgiven, and they themselves made new creatures, and have the Spirit of the
Son, which is a holy, living, self-denying Spirit. And they that are thus in Jesus Christ are
so far off from delighting in sin, that sin is the greatest thing that troubleth them; and
O how willing would they be rid of the very thoughts of it (Psa 119:113). It is the grief of
their souls, when they are in a right frame of spirit, that they can live no more to the honour
and glory of God than they do; and in all their prayers to God, the breathings of their souls
are as much sanctifying grace as pardoning grace, that they might live a holy life. They would
as willing live holy here as they would be happy in the world to come; they would as willingly
be cleansed from the filth of sin as to have the guilt of it taken away; they would as willingly
glorify God here as they would be glorified by Him hereafter (Phil 3:6-22). [2]. But there
are some that are out of Christ, being under the Law; and as for all those, let them be civil
or profane, they are such as God accounts wicked; and I say, as for those, if all the angels
in Heaven can drag them before the judgment-seat of Christ, they shall be brought before it
to answer for all their ungodly deeds; and being condemned for them, if all the fire in Hell
will burn them, they shall be burned there, if they die in that condition (Jude 15). And, therefore,
if you love your souls, do not give way to such a wicked spirit. "Let no man deceive you with"
such "vain words," as to think, because Christ hath made satisfaction to God for sin, therefore
you may live in your sins.

Thus have I, reader, given thee a brief discourse touching the Covenant of Works and the Covenant
of Grace, also of the nature of the one, together with the nature of the other. I have also
in this discourse endeavoured to show you the condition of them that are under the Law, how
sad it is, both from the nature of the covenant they are under, and also by the carriage of
God unto them by that covenant. And now, because I would bring all into as little a compass
as I can, I shall begin with the use and application of the whole in as brief a way as I can,
desiring the Lord to bless it to thee.

[USE AND APPLICATION].

A use of examination about the old covenant.

First. And, first of all, let us here begin to examine a little touching the covenant you stand
before God in, whether it be the Covenant of Works or the Covenant of Grace; [The first use
is a use of examination]. and for the right doing of this, I shall lay down this proposition--namely,
that all men naturally come into the world under the first of these, which is called the old
covenant, or the Covenant of Works, which is the Law; "And were all by nature the children
of wrath, even as others"; which they could not be, had they not been under the law; for there
are none that are under the other covenant that are still the children of wrath, but the children
of faith, the children of the promise, the accepted children, the children not of the bond-woman,
but of the free (Gal 4:28-31).

[Quest.] Now here lieth the question. Which of these two covenants art thou under, soul?

Answ. I hope I am under the Covenant of Grace.

Quest. But what ground hast thou to think that thou art under that blessed covenant, and not
rather under the Covenant of Works, that strict, that soul-damning covenant?

Answ. What ground? Why, I hope I am.

Quest. (Job 8:13-15).

Answ. My hope is grounded upon the promises; what else should it be grounded upon?

Reply. Indeed, to build my hope upon Christ Jesus, upon God in Christ, through the promise,
and to have this hope rightly, by the shedding abroad of the love of God in the heart, it is
a right-grounded hope (Rom 5:1-7).

Quest. But what promises in the Scripture do you find your hope built upon? and how do you
know whether you do build your hope upon the promises in the Gospel, the promises of the new
covenant, and not rather on the promises of the old covenant, for there are promises in that
as well as in the other?

Answ. I hope that if I do well I shall be accepted; because God hath said I shall (Gen 4:7). 

Tried it the other hand, Jacob, the interest of his church by violating the basic laws of his Empire
and the solemn promises which he repeated in the face of the whole world added to promote,
so was little doubt that the accusations against which the Roman Catholic religious order of
the day were perfect for all Protestants would be considered justified. For if ever had a Roman
Catholic cause, heretics to keep his word, so Jacob had cause, the Anglican clergy to his word
. Keep To her he owed his crown without their steadfast opposition to the Exclusion he would
have been an exile. He had repeatedly and solemnly its obligations against them acknowledged and vowed
that he would protect them in all their legal rights. If he is not bound by those obligations
considered, it was clear that no was the duty of gratitude or honor bound him if his superstition
came into play. It was then impossible that his people trusted him, and if it could not trust
him, which should members of his church believe it then? He was not considered treacherous by
nature or out of habit. His thoughtless nature and its disregard for the feelings On the other,
he owed a much higher reputation of sincerity, when he somehow deserved. His sycophants took
care of him like Jacob to call the righteous. If it be but showed that he, as he was a Catholic,
became at the same time also a hypocrite and rebellious was what conclusions had to be well out
of the Allen a nation that already was inclined to believe that the papacy a pernicious influence
on the moral Character performers?

[Note 6: I. 447th + Burnet +]

    [Note 7: Tillotson's sermon before the House of Commons on 5 November
1678.]

[Note 8.

    + Locke, First Letter on Toleration +]
    

    [Violation of the Test Act.] For these reasons, many of the most distinguished
Catholics of that Time, including the Pope himself, believes that
the interests of their church on our Island by a moderate and promote
the appropriate constitutional policy can most effectively would be.

But such arguments made no impression on the limited understanding and the imperious character
of the king. In his zeal, the statutory exclusions revoke that plagued the followers of his
religion, he proposed a mechanism which the most enlightened and tolerant Protestants of his
time, convinced that such exclusions necessary for the good of the state were. The English Catholics
owed his policy three years of a illegal and insolent triumph, and one hundred forty years of
subjugation and humiliation.

Many members of his Church clothed officers' positions in the newly established regiments. This
violation of the law was allowed to go uncensored for a while, because you do not feel like had to monir
any infractions on the part of a king who is suddenly forced looked
to defend his crown and his life against rebels.

But now the danger was over, the rebels were defeated and punished, her unsuccessful attempt, the
government, the they hoped to overthrow, strengthened even more. Nevertheless, James still awarded
to agencies incompetent person, and soon was talk that he had decided to no longer to the to
bind Test Act, that he hoped to persuade Parliament to repeal this law that He, however, if the Parliament
should show unruly, yet have his way am.

[Halifax falls from grace.] As soon as this became known, he urged a dull murmur, the precursor
a thunder storm, that the mind had to be the grandfather, his father and brother must give way,
only slumbering, but had not yet expired. The resistance was first in the cabinet. Halifax, it
did not try to hide his displeasure and his apprehension; the Privy
Council he fearlessly spoke the sentiments of which, as it soon became
apparent, The whole nation was penetrated.

Since none of his colleagues supported him, they let the Subject matter covered. After the meeting,
but he was called into the royal cabinet and he had two long conferences with his master. Jacob
tried the effect of flattery and compliments, but in vain, Halifax refused to promise the most definite,
that he vote in the House of Lords to abolish the Test Act and the Habeas Corpus Act am.

Some men from the vicinity of the King advised him on the eve of the convening of Parliament
not the most eloquent and accomplished statesman of the century in the camp of the opposition
to drive. They represented to him that Halifax love the honor and the income of his office,
that, so long as he was Lord President, he hardly with all his might against the government
will occur, but that the dismissal of his high post as much hot, as it all Release considerations.
But the king persisted in his purpose, Halifax was notified that
one of his services are no longer needed, and his name deleted from
the Privy Council book [9].

[Note 9: Councillor book. The name was deleted on 21 Oct. 1685th Halifax to Chesterfield;. Barillon,
19 (29) Sep]

[General dissatisfaction.] His dismissal was not only in England but in Paris, in Vienna and The Hague
a stir because it was well known that he always worked out had to
neutralize the influence of the court of Versailles in the affairs
of England.

    Ludwig was delighted with the news, the ambassadors of the United
    Provinces and the House Austria, however praised the wisdom and virtues
of the statesman in a redundant Manner, which caused a great scandal
in White Hall.

Jacob was very applied particularly to to tell the secretary of the imperial embassy, ​​which was
not afraid that the important Services that Halifax had made in the debate on the Exclusion, with
coarse Ingratitude would be repaid [10].

It soon became apparent that Halifax will have many followers. A portion of the Tories, with their
Danby old leaders at the top began to lead a Whig language, and even the prelates did not understand
vaguely that there was a point where the prince guilty loyalty must yield to higher considerations.
The discontent of the generals was even greater and besorgnißerregender. Already showed the first
symptoms of that mood, which has three Years later drive so many
senior officers to leave the royal standard.

Men who otherwise nothing made a conscience, were now striking a sudden concern. Churchill said
so here, that the king go a bit too far. Kirke, the level of its Slaughter was returned to the west,
swore that he hold on to the Protestant faith will, and even if he faith, in which he renounced
was brought up, should be as He'll never be a Papist. He had already been awarded, and if he
ever his Ever renounce faith, he was the Emperor of Morocco by a solemn promise given connected
to Moslem be [11].

[Note 10: Barillon 26 Oct, (5 Nov.) 1685, Ludwig to Barillon 27th Oct, (6th November) and 6 / 16.
Nov.]

[Note 11: An interesting report on the first appearance the symptoms of discontent among the
Tories found in a letter from Halifax to Chesterfield, written in October 1635th I. Burnet + 684th
+]

    
    [Persecution of French Huguenots.] While the excited manifold already
in relationship Nation anxiously awaited the re-convening of the Houses
of Parliament came News from France, which increased the excitement
even more.

    
    
    The long and heroic struggle, passed the Huguenots against the French
    government had been brought by Richelieu's skill and energy to a
finite conclusion been.

This great statesman who defeated them, but they assured them by the Edict of Nantes granted freedom
of conscience. They were under some slight restrictions allowed to worship God according to their
ritual and to write in defense of their doctrine.

All civil and Militairämter them were open and some time throughout their heresy was no practical
obstacle for them to soar in the world. Some of them commanded Army Corps, Other important sectors
were the leaders of the civil administration. But at last there was a change. Louis XIV entertained
long been a political and religious aversion to the Calvinists. An ardent Catholic, he hated their
theological Dogmas, and as a prince who loved the tyranny, he despised the Republican Theories
that were interwoven into the Geneva theology. He shortened by and by all rights, which the schismatics
enjoyed. He mingled with the education of Protestant children confiscated possessions which
Protestant consistories had fallen by inheritance, and closed under trivial pretexts Protestant
churches. The Protestant clergy were tortured by the tax collectors, the Protestant nobility, the
magistrates withdrawn, and the Protestant court officials announced that His Majesty their services no
longer needed. It was given orders that no longer employed in the Protestant fold Justice should
be. The oppressed sect had some weak signs of the spirit of looking, who had commanded in the previous
century, the whole power of the House of Valois defiance. It massacres and executions took place.
In the cities, where there were many heretics and the estates of the nobility were placed heretical
Dragoons, and the cruelty and licentiousness this crude missionaries was endorsed by the Government
or blamed but very mild. However, was the Edict of Nantes, even though it hurts fact manner in
its most essential points was not formally abolished, and the king said repeatedly in public
ceremony Decrees, that he was determined to keep it upright. But the fanatics and flatterers, which
he lent a sympathetic ear, he gave counsels which he was only too ready to follow. They represented
to him that his strict policy was extremely successful, that I found his will little or no resistance,
that even thousands of Huguenots had been converted, and if he still Thue the last crucial step,
it would to add yet stubbornly resisting soon, France by the stain of heresy be completely cleaned
and its controller, a heavenly crown, deserve no less glorious than that of St. Louis. These
reasons pierced. The last match was out, the Edict of Nantes was revoked and a lot of regulations
against the Sectaries appeared in quick succession. Boys and girls were torn from their parents
and sent to monasteries to be educated there. All Calvinist ministers were asked to either renounce
their faith or leave the country within a fortnight. The other professors, the Reformed faith
was forbidden to leave the kingdom, and to prevent their escape, the ports and borders were
closely guarded. It was believed that true in her in such kind of dangerous shepherds separate
their flocks soon Hurdle would return. But despite all the vigilance of the military took police
a significant emigration place, it was calculated that within a few months, fifty thousand Families
leave France for good. Also, these refugees were not people who a country can do without light,
because most of them were persons of enlightened Education, of great activity and of strict
customs. There are names in the credits, who took in war, science, literature and art a prominent
position. Some of the exiles William of Orange offered their swords and were characterized by Resentment
of, with which they fought against their oppressors afterwards. Other retaliated through even
more terrible weapons and incited by the Dutch, British and German press For thirty years, public opinion
of Europe against the French government. A peaceful-minded part built in the eastern suburb
of London silk manufacture; another portion taught the Saxons in the making of fabrics and
hats, for which France had hitherto had the monopoly. Still others planted the first vines
near the Cape of Good Hope [12].

Under ordinary circumstances, would the courts of Spain and Rome, a prince who so emphatically
against heresy made war, paid to have the liveliest applause. But the injustice and the pride
of Louis had such a hatred excited, that when he was a persecutor, the courts of Spain and Rome
were for the religious freedom party and loud cruelty disapproved of a wild and naughty soldiers
against an innocent people rush [13]. The All Protestant Europe burst into a cry of pain and
fury. To England came the news of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, about a week before
the day postponed to what the parliament. It was now clear that the spirit of Gardiner's and Alba's
still the spirit of the Roman Catholic Church. Jakob Ludwig stood at generosity and humanity
and was not after him in all the skills and knowledge of a statesman at any rate far superior.
Like Jacob, had also promised repeatedly Ludwig, to respect the rights of his Protestant subjects.
Nevertheless, Ludwig was now fully open as a persecutor of the reformed faith on. Probably
one could doubt that Jacob only one opportunity waiting to emulate
their example?

Already he formed the law a mockery, a military force, has command in large part by Roman Catholic officers
was. Was probably a bit unreasonable in fearing that this army for the same purposes should be used
as the fränzösischen Dragoon?

[Note 12: The then published in various languages Records of this persecution are countless.
An unusually clear, elegant and witty overview can be found in Voltaire's Age of Louis XIV]

[Note 13: + "Misionarios embotados" + says Ronquillo. + "Apostoli armati" +, says Innocent. In the
Mackintosh Collection is an interesting letter on this subject is of Ronquillo, dd 26th March
(5 April) 1686th See + Venior, Relatione + di Francia, 1689, led by Professor Ranke in his "Roman
popes," Book VIII]

[Impression that persecution in England.] Jacob was on the procedure of the Court of Versailles
almost as surprised as his subjects. It seemed indeed as if this court is except it had to
put him in embarrassment and harm him. He was on the point to require a Protestant legislature full
toleration for Catholics, and he therefore could not be unwelcome, as the news that the government
of a Neighboring state has had just withdrawn from the toleration
of the Protestants.

    His anger was still increased by a speech which the Bishop of Valence
    at the same time on behalf of the Gallican Clergy addressed
    to Louis XIV.
     To do the works of the
law to the end we may be accepted of God, or that we may please Him, and to have our desires
of Him, is to do things from a legal or old-covenant spirit, and that is expressly laid down
where it is said, "To him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt"; that
is, he appears before God through the Law, and his obedience to it (Rom 4:4,5). And again,
though they be in themselves Gospel-ordinances, as baptism, breaking of bread, hearing, praying,
meditating, or the like; yet, I say, if they be not done in the right spirit, they are thereby
used as a hand by the devil to pull thee under the Covenant of Works, as in former times he
used circumcision, which was no part of the Covenant of Works, the Ten Commands, but a seal
of the righteousness of faith; yet, I say, they being done in a legal spirit, the soul was
thereby brought under the Covenant of Works, and so most miserably destroyed unawares to itself,
and that because there was not a right understanding of the nature and terms of the said covenants.
And so it is now; souls being ignorant of the nature of the old covenant, do even by their
subjecting to several Gospel ordinances, run themselves under the old covenant, and fly off
from Christ, even when they think they are acoming closer to him. O, miserable! If you would
know when or how this is done, whether in one particular or more, I shall show you as followeth--

1. That man doth bring himself under the Covenant of Works, by Gospel ordinances, when he cannot
be persuaded that God will have mercy upon him except he do yield obedience to such or such
a particular thing commanded in the Word. This is the very same spirit that was in the false
brethren (spoken of Acts 15; Galatians, the whole Epistle), whose judgment was, that unless
such and such things were done, "they could not be saved." As now-a-days we have also some
that say, Unless your infants be baptized they cannot be saved;23 and others say, unless you
be rightly baptized, you have no ground to be assured that you are believers, or members of
churches; which is so far off from being so good as a legal spirit, that it is the spirit of
blasphemy, as is evident, because they do reckon that the Spirit, righteousness, and faith
of Jesus, and the confession thereof, is not sufficient to declare men to be members of the
Lord Jesus; when, on the other side, though they be rank hypocrites, yet if they do yield an
outward subjection to this or that, they are counted presently communicable members, which
doth clearly discover that there is not so much honour given to the putting on the righteousness
of the Son of God as there is given to that which a man may do, and yet go to Hell within an
hour after; nay, in the very doing of it doth shut himself for ever from Jesus Christ.

2. Men may do things from a legal or old-covenant spirit when they content themselves with
their doing of such and such a thing, as prayers, reading, hearing, baptism, breaking of bread,
or the like; I say, when they can content themselves with the thing done, and sit down at ease
and content because the thing is done. As, for instance, some men being persuaded that such
and such a thing is their duty, and that unless they do do it, God will not be pleased with
them, nor suffer them to be heirs of His kingdom, they from this spirit do rush into and do
the thing, which being done, they are content, as being persuaded that now they are without
doubt in a happy condition, because they have done such things, like unto the Pharisee, who,
because he had done this and the other thing, said therefore, in a bragging way, "Lord, I thank
thee that I am not as this publican"; for I have done thus and thus; when, alas! the Lord give
him never a good word for his labour, but rather a reproof.

3. That man doth act from a legal spirit who maketh the strictness of his walking the ground
of his assurance for eternal life. Some men, all the ground they have to believe that they
shall be saved, it is because they walk not so loose as their neighbours, they are not so bad
as others are, and therefore they question not but that they shall do well. Now this is a false
ground, and a thing that is verily legal, and savours only of some slight and shallow apprehensions
of the old covenant. I call them shallow apprehensions, because they are not right and sound,
and are such as will do the soul no good, but beguile it, in that the knowledge of the nature
of this covenant doth not appear to the soul, only some commanding power it hath on the soul,
which the soul endeavouring to give up itself unto, it doth find some peace and content, and
especially if it find itself to be pretty willing to yield itself to its commands. And is not
this the very ground of thy hoping that God will save thee from the wrath to come? If one should
ask thee what ground thou hast to think thou shalt be saved, wouldst thou not say, Truly, because
I have left my sins, and because I am more inclinable to do good, [Do not think that I am against
the order of the Gospel]. and to learn, and get more knowledge; I endeavour to walk in church
order, as they call it, and therefore I hope God hath done a good work for me, and I hope will
save my soul. Alas, alas! this is a very trick of the devil to make souls build the ground
of their salvation upon this their strictness, and abstaining from the wickedness of their
former lives, and because they desire to be stricter and stricter. Now, if you would know such
a man or woman, you shall find them in this frame--namely, when they think their hearts are
good, then they think also that Christ will have mercy upon them; but when their corruptions
work, then they doubt and scruple until again they have their hearts more ready to do the things
contained in the law and ordinances of the Gospel. Again, such men do commonly cheer up their
hearts, and encourage themselves still to hope all shall be well, and that because they are
not so bad as the rest, but more inclinable than they, saying, I am glad I am not as this publican,
but better than he, more righteous than he (Luke 18:11).

4. This is a legal and old-covenant spirit that secretly persuades the soul that if ever it
will be saved by Christ, if must be fitted for Christ by its getting of a good heart and good
intentions to do this and that for Christ; I say, that the soul when it comes to Christ may
not be rejected or turned off; when in deed and in truth this is the very way for the soul
to turn itself from Jesus Christ, instead of turning to Him; for such a soul looks upon Christ
rather to be a painted Saviour or a cypher than a very and real Saviour. Friend, if thou canst
fit thyself, what need hast thou of Christ? If thou cant get qualifications to carry to Christ
that thou mightst be accepted, thou dost not look to be accepted in the Beloved. Shall I tell
thee? Thou art as if a man should say, I will make myself clean, and then I will go to Christ
that He may wash me; or like a man possessed, that will first cast the devils out of himself,
and then come to Christ for cure from Him. Thou, must, therefore, if thou wilt so lay hold
of Christ as not to be rejected by Him; I say, thou must come to Him as the basest in the world,
more fit to be damned, if thou hadst thy right, than to have the least smile, hope, or comfort
from Him. Come with the fire of Hell in thy conscience, come with thy heart hard, dead, cold,
full of wickedness and madness against thy own salvation; come as renouncing all thy tears,
prayers, watchings, fastings; come as a blood-red sinner; do not stay from Christ till thou
hast a greater sense of thy own misery, nor of the reality of God's mercy; do not stay while
thy heart is softer and thy spirit in a better frame, but go against thy mind, and against
the mind of the devil and sin, throw thyself down at the foot of Christ, with a halter about
thy neck, and say, Lord Jesus, hear a sinner, a hard-hearted sinner, a sinner that deserveth
to be damned, to be cast into Hell; and resolve never to return, or to give over crying unto
Him, till thou do find that He hath washed thy conscience from dead works with His blood virtually,
and clothed thee with His own righteousness, and make thee complete in Himself; this is the
way to come to Christ. Halifax, expressed some apprehension against the Perth replied sarcastically
smile, there was no danger. "Be of good cheer, my lord," he added, has "Your faith Helped you.
"The prophecy was confirmed, Perth and Melfort came as the true leaders the government of their country
back to Edinburgh. [127] still another member of the Scottish Privy council, Alexander Stuart, Earl
of Murray, a descendant and heir of the rulers swore was also from the belief, the first champion
of his illustrious ancestor was, and declared himself a member of the Roman Church. Sun Queensberry
result has always been the case been the sovereign rights, was against a rival who had prepared
the hearts of the Court to sell such a price, he could not say. He had a series of insults
and endure humiliations similar to those which the same time his friend Rochester to embitter the
life began.

    [Note 124: + Burnet, I. 584th +]

    

    [Note 125: + Ibid.

    I. 652, 653rd +]

[Note 126: + Ibid. I. 678th +]

[Note 127: + Burnet, I. 653rd +]

[Favoring the Catholic religion in Scotland.] It seemed royal decrees, which the Papists authorized
to hold office without making the Testeid, and the clergy received strict orders to refrain in
their sermons of all reflections on the Roman Catholic to include faith. The chancellor took
it upon himself to book the few printers and booksellers, which at that time in Edinburgh
were to send the servants of the Privy Council with orders to publish any work without his permission.
They knew very well that this command was intended to prevent the spread of Protestant writings.
A respectable bookseller said the messenger, that he had in his shop a book about a very harsh
words outside the papacy, and asked if he could sell it.

    They demanded to see, and He showed them a Bible.

    [128] A whole boatload of pictures of saints, rosaries, crosses censers,
and arrived at at the address of Lord Perth in Leith.

The import of such articles had been banned for quite some time, but now let the Customs officers,
ornaments and pass dishes of superstition. [129]

[Note 128: Fountain Hall, 28 Jan. 1685/86.]

[Note 129: + Ibid. 11. Jan. 1685/86. +]

[Riots in Edinburgh.] Soon after it was learned that the house of a Popish Chancellor Chapel
had been set up and that regular mass was celebrated in it. The mob was on and attacked the building
in which the idolatry was celebrated. The iron window grille were torn out and were Lady Perth,
together with some friends pelted with mud. A the rioters were taken and the Privy Council ordered
him flogged to. His Mates but released him and beat the hangman.
The city was the whole night in an uproar. The students of the University
of mingling with the crowd and incited him to the tumult. Zealous
people drank to the health of youth and students attend to the decline
of Papists and encouraged each other to resist the troops. These were
already arms. Among them was distinguished particularly from the Claverhouse's
Dragoons, the Horror and disgust from all over Scotland. They were
met with a hail of stones, one Officer wounded. As all these, and many more privileges, do come to thee through or by the new covenant,
and that thou mightst not doubt of the certainty of these glorious privileges, God hath so
ordered it that they do all come to thee by way of purchase, being obtained for thee, ready
to thy hand, by that one Man Jesus, who is the Mediator, or the Person that hath principally
to do both with God and thy soul in the things pertaining to this covenant; so that now thou
mayst look on all the glorious things that are spoken of in the new covenant, and say, All
these must be mine; I must have a share in them; Christ hath purchased them for me, and given
them to me. Now I need not to say, O! but how shall I come by them? God is holy, I am a sinner;
God is just, and I have offended. No; but thou mayst say, Though I am vile, and deserve nothing,
yet Christ is holy, and He deserveth all things; though I have so provoked God by breaking
His law that He could not in justice look upon me, yet Christ hath so gloriously paid the debt
that now God can say, Welcome, soul, I will give thee grace, I will give thee glory, thou shalt
lie in My bosom, and go no more out; My Son hath pleased Me, He hath satisfied the loud cries
of the Law and justice, that called for speedy vengeance on thee; He hath fulfilled the whole
Law, He hath brought in everlasting righteousness (Dan 9:24,25). He hath overcome the devil,
He hath washed away thy sins with His most precious blood, He hath destroyed the power of death,
and triumphs over all the enemies. This He did in His own Person, as a common Jesus, for all
persons in their stead, even as for so many as shall come in to Him; for His victory I give
to them, His righteousness I give to them, His merits I bestow on them, and look upon them
holy, harmless, undefiled, and for ever comely in my eye, through the victory of the Captain
of their salvation (1 Cor 15:55-57).

And that thou mayest, in deed and in truth, not only hear and read this glorious doctrine,
but be found one that hath the life of it in thy heart, thou must be much in studying of the
two covenants, the nature of the one, and the nature of the other, and the conditions of them
that are under them both. Also, thou must be well-grounded in the manner of the victory, and
merits of Christ, how they are made thine.

First, And here thou must, in the first place, believe that the babe that was born of Mary,
lay in a manger at Bethlehem, in the time of Caesar Augustus; that He, that babe, that child,
was the very Christ.

Second, Thou must believe that in the days of Tiberius Caesar, when Herod was tetrarch of Galilee,
and Pontius Pilate governor of Judea, that in those days He was crucified, or hanged on a tree
between two thieves, which by computation, or according to the best account, is above sixteen
hundred years since. 24

Third, Thou must also believe that when He did hang upon that cross of wood on the Mount Calvary,
that then He did die there for the sins of those that did die before He was crucified; also
for their sins that were alive at the time of His crucifying, and also that He did by that
one death give satisfaction to God for all those that should be born and believe in Him after
His death, even unto the world's end. I say, this thou must believe, upon pain of eternal damnation,
that by that one death, that when He did die, He did put an end to the curse of the Law and
sin [This is the doctrine that I will live and die by, and be willing to be damned if it saves
me not. I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation;
therefore I preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness
(Rom 1:16; 1 Cor 1:23).] and at that time by His death on the Cross, and by His resurrection
out of Joseph's sepulchre, He did bring in a sufficient righteousness to clothe thee withal
completely--"For by one offering He hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified." Not
that He should often offer Himself--"for then must He often have suffered since the foundation
of the world; but now ONCE in the end of the world hath He appeared to put," or do, "away sin
by the sacrifice of Himself"--namely, when He hanged on the Cross. For it is by the offering
up of the body of this blessed Jesus Christ ONCE for all.

[A word of advice]. But because thou in thy pursuit after the faith of the Gospel wilt be sure
to meet with devils, heretics, particular corruptions, as unbelief, ignorance, the spirit of
works animated on by suggestions, false conclusions, with damnable doctrines, I shall therefore
briefly, besides what hath been already said, speak a word or two before I leave thee of further
advice, especially concerning these two things. First, How thou art to conceive of the Saviour.
Second, How thou art to make application of Him.

First. For the Saviour. 1. Thou must look upon Him to be very God and very Man; not man only,
nor God only, but God and Man in one Person, both natures joined together, for the putting
of Him in a capacity to be a suitable Saviour; suitable, I say, to answer both sides and parties,
with whom He hath to do in the office of His Mediatorship and being of a Saviour. 2. Thou must
not only do this, but thou must also consider and believe that even what was done by Jesus
Christ, it was not done by one nature without the other; but thou must consider that both natures,
both the Godhead and the manhood, did gloriously concur and join together in the undertaking
of the salvation of our bodies and souls; not that the Godhead undertook anything without the
manhood, neither did the manhood do anything without the virtue and union of the Godhead; and
thou must of necessity do this, otherwise thou canst not find any sound ground and footing
for thy soul to rest upon.

For if thou look upon any of these asunder--that is to say, the Godhead without the manhood,
or the manhood without the Godhead--thou wilt conclude that what was done by the Godhead was
not done for man, being done without the manhood; or else, that that which was done with the
manhood could not answer Divine justice, in not doing what it did by the virtue and in union
with the Godhead; for it was the Godhead that gave virtue and value to the suffering of the
manhood, and the manhood being joined therewith, that giveth us an interest into the heavenly
glory and comforts of the Godhead.

What ground can a man have to believe that Christ is his Saviour, if he do not believe that
He suffered for sin in his nature? And what ground also can a man have to think that God the
Father is satisfied, being infinite, if he believe not also that He who gave the satisfaction
was equal to Him who was offended?

Therefore, beloved, when you read of the offering of the body of the Son of Man for our sins,
then consider that He did it in union with, and by the help of, the eternal Godhead. "How much
more shall the blood of Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit, offered Himself without spot
to God, purge your consciences from dead works," etc.

And when thou readest of the glorious works and splendour of the Godhead in Christ, then consider
that all that was done by the Godhead, it was done as it had union and communion with the manhood.
And then thou shalt see that the devil is overcome by God-man; sin, death, Hell, the grave,
and all overcome by Jesus, God-man, and then thou shalt find them overcome indeed. They must
needs be overcome when God doth overcome them; and we have good ground to hope the victory
is ours, when in our nature they are overcome.

Second. The second thing is, how to apply, or to make application of this Christ to the soul.
And for this there are to be considered the following particulars--

1. That when Jesus Christ did thus appear, being born of Mary, He was looked upon by the Father
as if the sin of the whole world was upon Him; nay, further, God did look upon Him and account
Him the sin of man--"He hath made Him to be sin for us," (2 Cor 5:21) that is, God made His
Son Jesus Christ our sin, or reckoned Him to be, not only a sinner, but the very bulk of sin
of the whole world, and condemned Him so severely as if He had been nothing but sin. (Rom 8:3;
2 Cor 5:21). Therefore, as to the taking away of thy curse, thou must reckon Him to be made
sin for thee. Consider for whose sakes all this glorious design of the Father and the Son was
brought to pass; and that you shall find to be for man, for sinful man (2 Cor 8:9).

3.

4. How men are to reckon it theirs; and that is, upon the same terms which God doth offer it,
which is freely, as they are worthless and undeserving creatures, as they are without all good,
and also unable to do any good. This, I say, is the right way of applying the merits of Christ
to thy soul, for they are freely given to thee, a poor sinner, not for anything that is in
thee, or done by thee, but freely as thou art a sinner, and so standest in absolute need thereof.

And, Christian, thou art not in this thing to follow thy sense and feeling, but the very Word
of God. The thing that doth do the people of God the greatest injury, it is their too little
hearkening to what the Gospel saith, and their too much giving credit to what the Law, sin,
the devil, and conscience saith; and upon this very ground to conclude that because there is
a certainty of guilt upon the soul, therefore there is also for certain, by sin, damnation
to be brought upon the soul. This is now to set the Word of God aside, and to give credit to
what is formed by the contrary; but thou must give more credit to one syllable of the written
Word of the Gospel than thou must give to all the saints and angels in Heaven and earth; much
more than to the devil and thy own guilty conscience.

Let me give you a parable:--There was a certain man that had committed treason against his
king; but forasmuch as the king had compassion upon him, he sent him, by the hand of a faithful
messenger, a pardon under his own hand and seal; but in the country where this poor man dwelt,
there were also many that sought to trouble him, by often putting of him in mind of his treason,
and the law that was to be executed on the offender. Now which way should this man so honour
his king, but as by believing his handwriting, which was the pardon. Certainly he would honour
him more by so doing than to regard all the clamours of his enemies continually against him.

Just thus it is here: thou having committed treason against the King of Heaven, He through
compassion, for Christ's sake, hath sent thee a pardon; but the devil, the Law, and thy conscience
do continually seek to disturb thee by bringing thy sins afresh into thy remembrance. But now,
wouldst thou honour thy King? Why then, he that believeth "the record that God hath given of
His Son," hath set to his seal that God is true.

Object. But, saith the soul, how, if after I have received a pardon, I should commit treason
again? What should I do then?

Answ. (Isa 55:7).

Sometimes I myself have been in such a strait that I have been almost driven to my wit's ends
with the sight and sense of the greatness of my sins; but calling to mind that God was God
in His mercy, pity, and love, as well as in His holiness, justice, etc.; and again, considering
the ability of the satisfaction that was given to holiness and justice, to the end there might
be way made for sinners to lay hold of this mercy; I say, I considering this, when tempted
to doubt and despair, I have answered in this manner--

"Lord, here is one of the greatest sinners that ever the ground bare; a sinner against the
Law, and a sinner against the Gospel. I have sinned against light, and I have sinned against
mercy. And now, Lord, the guilt of them breaks my heart. The devil also he would have me despair,
telling of me that Thou art so far from hearing my prayers in this my distress, that I cannot
anger Thee worse than to call upon Thee; for saith he, Thou art resolved for ever to damn,
and not to grant me the least of Thy favour; yet, Lord, I would fain have forgiveness. And
Thy Word, though much may be inferred from it against me, yet it saith, If I come unto Thee,
Thou will in nowise cast me out. Lord, shall I honour Thee most by believing Thou canst pardon
my sins, or by believing Thou canst not? Shall I honour Thee most by believing Thou wilt pardon
my sins, or by believing Thou wilt not? Shall I honour the blood of Thy Son also by despairing
that the virtue thereof is not sufficient, or by believing that it is sufficient to purge me
from all my blood-red and crimson sins? Surely, Thou that couldst find so much mercy as to
pardon Manasseh, Mary Magdalene, the three thousand murderers, persecuting Paul, murderous
and adulterous David, and blaspheming Peter--Thou that offeredst mercy to Simon Magus, a witch,
and didst receive the astrologers and conjurors in the 19th of Acts--Thou hast mercy enough
for one poor sinner. Lord, set the case: my sins were bigger than all these, and I less deserved
mercy than any of these, yet Thou hast said in Thy Word that he that cometh to thee Thou wilt
in "nowise cast out." And God hath given comfort to my soul, even to such a sinner as I am.
And I tell you, there is no way so to honour God, and to beat out the devil, as to stick to
the truth of God's Word and the merits of Christ's blood by believing. When Abraham believed--even
against hope and reason--he gave glory to God (Rom 4). And this is our victory, even our faith
(1 John 5:4). Believe, and all things are possible to you. He that believeth shall be saved.
He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and shall never perish, neither shall any
man pluck them out of Christ's Father's hands." And the fine young prostitutes are friendly to Jacob and Margrethchen Ade said
and have gone away happy and come back to yours, and because they Gold and silver and costly
garments from snake king's palace were brought back, so have all had her young and pretty soon
even groom. And Jacob is the groom's Margrethe and they soon became a fun wedding on hold. But
they are here in Thorstorp remained, because the proximity of the island where King lived snake
own eyes, them to be dangerous, but they are more withdrawn into the country up and have as for
battered treasures bought a beautiful property and live in delights. From the Snake kings, and
whether he redeems been since then, they have never heard something.

The hoopoe.

Says Hinrichs Vierk once told by a master tailor Hoopoe:

It is the most wonderful things going in the world: kings are beggars and beggars Become king
and no one can see what he once was and what he will still can. Thus, the hoopoe has once been
a dressmaker, and anyone who sees him now, well in that he has previously lived in a fine and
delicate society? He has a large rich city and lived like a pretty and fine companies and held
a colorful silk skirt worn, and is carried out by a home to another and from one palace in the
others disappeared and the valuable tools and materials, from which he was to make clothes, worn
at home. And because he was handsome and mannerly, have all the pretty women taken him to their
tailor and he has always been working with them, and even the Queen, as they should be crowned,
he has attached the skirt. Meister said hoopoe is soon become a very wealthy man and has been
able to but can not get enough, but is always walking around and has dragged the home and often
had to bear so much that he is like a Dray Stoen under his load and when he climbed the stairs, Huup!
Hupupp! cry had. This work is bliss and belongings would have God forgive him well, but it is
a arge greed came of it, and she can see the Lord No longer with patience. The tailor has recently
stolen and all the witnesses that he could get make his Partly pinched off and abstipitzt.
Since it is done for him that one evening, as He Hupupp with a heavy bundle and even heavier!
Hupupp! hinaufaechzete the stairs, suddenly been transformed into a colorful bird which is called
and the hoopoe Houses and fly around the stables, where people with insatiable greed Allergarstigste
pick up and carry it in its nest must. He wears to this day a colorful skirt, but a such that is
reminiscent of a bad place to which belong the thieves and rogues. One Part of the coat is jet
black, the other fire-red, and colors are both part of Hell, because the black of the skirt to
the hellish darkness and the fire of hell-Rothe Mean fire. A similar Rock as a master, has both the
hoopoe Todtengraeber, a bare nasty worm that herumlaeuft on the roads and dead moles belong, Kaefer
and buries other carrion, and the colorful leaf bug has almost exactly the same dress: both
Erzstinker and are both likely to also have been thieves once. This has the hoopoe yet all maintaining
old tailor from his time that he always Hupupp! Hupupp! to scream, as if he wore nor thieves
load that is too heavy to him. The people call it so frequently the Kukukskuester because its
really loud from a distance so often sounds as if the one Cuckoo sing his song, such as off-the
pastor. But the cuckoo is a funny Mischievous and can sing his songs in joy, the hoopoe is a
sad rogue, and therefore he has to sigh and complain and be Hupupp! Hupupp! it is difficult
even from the throat.

The Wolf and the Nightingale,

or how two poor children transformed Koenig and finally after much trouble yet again with people
were created.

In ancient times, when it was all still very different in the world as now, there lived a king
in Scotland, who had the most beautiful queen in every land, by such a rare beauty and sweetness,
that it far and wide as the very most beautiful and celebrated by poets and was zugenannt
tellers of the Scottish bird Phoenix. This beautiful queen gave birth to the king two little
children, a son and a daughter, and then died out in their youth. The king mourned for years about
her and she could never forget, also said he would never marry again. But the human mind is fickle
and can not itself leave, for as many days passed and the children were already big, but he
took another wife. This woman was very angry, and an evil stepmother to the children of the
king. But it was the prince and the princess right mirror of grace and loveliness, and the hatred
of her stepmother to the children came from the fact that the people in which the Queen died
in good memory was still saying this, but they concealed and that when she appeared with the young princess
of this aufjauchzeten and shouted: she is good and beautiful as her mother. She was what, and she
became angry at himself and arge thought of malice, but hid their evil heart in friendliness.
For she was allowed to before the Kings can not remember that it was the children gram, and
the people they would have been stoned and torn, as they would have done them any harm.

The princess, the king's daughter, who was called Aurora, was now become fifteen years old and
flower like a rose, and was the most beautiful princess in sight. And it attracted many Koenigssoehne
and princes and counts her and courted her and she sought to Gemal they said to them: I the cheerful
and unmarried virginity like better than all Free, and so they had to Mezedhes back where they
came from. But at last came of rights: it was a prince from the east country, a handsome and
stately gentleman. The betrothed it is with the consent of the king and stepmother. And already was
the wedding ring wound and ordered the players to dance, and all the land was in joy if the Vermaelen
the beautiful Princess Aurora. But the stepmother thought very differently in their mind when
gebehrdete it, and said, I will order minstrels that are to one another Dance play, and the
feet to dance somewhere else than the bridal bed. For she said to himself: This is me and
I blacked out completely darken even more, and before that Aurora must go under my sun, especially
when they get such a handsome man and the Gemal the kings of her father brings grandchildren,
because I'm infertile and childless. Also depends the people in it and it cries out for, but
I do not know them and know they do not want; and yet I am the queen: yes I'm the queen! and
soon they will all know, that I am and not Aurora. And now she thought back to many lists arge
day and night and forth, as they spoil the princess and her brother wanted but it did her no
only succeed, for they were too well guarded and protected by the servants and maids, they
had. They saw them as their eyeball and did not depart day and night them because of the love
that she wore to her mother, the Blessed Queen. Now when no time left and the wedding day was
already there and she no longer knew how to help, they all thought the worst art they knew,
and came to the children with the vexing Friendliness, and asked her to come a moment with
her in her rose garden, she would show them a beautiful flower that just broken sey. And they were
happy with her, because the garden was hard behind the castle, and no one could think of something
amiss, for it was the bright noon, and the king and the princes and princesses of the land were
all gathered in the great castle hall, as the same should happen Vermaelen. And she led the
children in the farthest corner of the garden where the flowers were under a Taxusbaum dark,
as if to show them as something special. But she muttered some for quiet words down, then broke
a branch from the tree, and gave the prince and the Princess on the back with a few tricks.
And immediately they were turned into animals. The prince jumped about as a wolf tearing the
wall and ran into the woods, and the princess flew as a small gray bird, the nightingale is,
on the tree, and sang a sad Song.

The Queen played their game so well that no one noticed anything. She ran screaming the castle and
fell with his clothes torn and disheveled hair, on the steps of the hall out as Sey her a great
suffering to happen, and it was called the king of the maids carry
away.

It probably went a good fifteen minutes before she came to herself. Since gebehrdete it is very sad
and cried and cried, Oh! you poor Aurora, what do you Brauttag experienced! oh you are unhappy Prince!
So she cried once over the other, and told then, a swarm Sey robbers suddenly got into the
back garden and have the two Koenig children forcibly torn from their side and kidnapped, but they
have it on the ground are beaten and half dead leave, and they showed a bruise on her forehead,
which she had deliberately pushed against a tree. And all believed their words, and the king
welcomed all his lords and earls and knights and squires mount and pursue the robbers. This
rode through the forest on all sides and all the canyons and cliffs and mountains around far
to the castle probably two or three miles, but by the robbers and the Prince and the princess
they found no trace. And the king and had not rested keep searching and searching for many
weeks and months, and sent messengers and scouts out in all countries, but they always came back
in vain, and with the Prince and Princess It was as if they had never lived, they were so completely
lost. The old king believed that the robbers they had kidnapped because of the precious jewels
and gems they wore on their wedding day, and if she robbed and beaten and killed somewhere interred,
so that you could never get them on the track, and he fretted so much that he soon died. At
his death he handed over because he had no children, the Queen the kingdom, and asked his subjects
that they may you be faithful and obedient as they it had been. They did it well, and recognized
her as their queen, more out of love to him than love her.

Thus four years were the king and control various already dead and the other year, and the Queen
started with great force to rule over the lands, and bought one of the treasures the old king
had left her, many foreign soldiers who come across the sea left and guarded her crown and
her castle. For she knew she of the subjects was not loved, and said: Now, you may fear to
do what they do not do for love would.

So it happened that they from day to day in jedermaenniglich was more hated, but no one was
allowed to be remembered as on the softest whisper to the Queen death was set. But the people
let the whispering and whispering about but not, and as the saying is true: There is nothing so
finely spun, it comes at last to the sun, it had from the beginning * of rumors, as the King children
were gone: no one you know what I mean the walk of the Queen. For there were enough people,
their sharp eye for their friendliness and their unnatural evil arts zutraueten. This Munkel
among the people took over and was now continuing to have, but she takes care not a question,
and thought that are already animals remain what they are and I will not take the crown. But
it all went very differently than they had thought. -------------------------- * Whisper say of
horses, shaking in the summer because of the brakes with the head; rumors is to say: move their
heads against each other, whisper quiet. --------------------------

Koenig was the poor children there, however, quite bad.

The Prince was run as a brown wolf in the forest, and he had to gestures such as a Wolf howl like a wolf and through
the wilderness and desolate places run by day and by night, and how to accompany a thief, for the
wolfish fear had entered into him.

And he had to feed on, like the other wolves of all kinds of wild
game and birds of prey, also had it in the sad winter sometimes probably
do with a profile Send private company and the belly zaehneklappen
and move and take between the hard and cold stones in his camp.

And this was certainly not a princely life, as he had previously led, before he the royal splendor
and glory in this wild misery was violated. But that was special about him that he alone attacked
animals and never tore up and hungry for human blood. But after him would have longed, after
the evil woman who had converted him; but this was careful not to get to where they could face
the teeth of the wolf. One should not believe that the prince, who was now a wolf nor human reason
had, no, it was very dark now in him, and with the image of the animal, in which He had to
walk through the woods, he had not much more than the animal mind. That is true, a dark impulse
drove him often point to the castle and the gardens, as he would have to get there a catch,
but he had no clear recollection of the past: as he would have then to endure even in the wolf skin?
In the moments when he had referred Engine felt he was afflicted with a particular wrath,
but more like giving them a thousand Step came near, a cold shiver ran into him and drove him back.
And the queen had it with her sorcery debt that they had banned him up so far, for further had
not been allowed. But they put the wolf prince for life and leave us much hunt in the forest,
the herumzog around the castle, because she thought that he probably mogte ing it. Therefore
almost all week was twice a big sound hunting and hunting of wolves and Klapper Foxes employed,
and so they have a more assiduous pretext would have had the queen many cute dam deer in this forest
exposed, from which our King Wolf However, some consumed. But he always saved himself from all danger,
how often the dogs zerbliessen him with their mouth and the hair on the back already and how often
the Jaeger shot at him. He then swerved aside for the moment, and when the sound is gesaenftet
and had the Jagdhoerner had ceased, he came back into the thicket, which the castle was close,
and basked frequently on public squares, where he played as a boy and youth sometimes had. But
he knew nothing of the past, but it was a secret love, which drew him there.

The Princess Aurora was forced to fly as a little bird on the tree and was been transformed into
a nightingale. You, however, was in its light and thin spring dress the soul is not so obscured
as the Prince in the wolf skin, but she knew a lot more of themselves and of the people and things,
they could not only talk. For singing but them more beautiful in their loneliness, and often
so beautifully that, before the animal pleasures hopping and jumping and the birds all around, they
gathered and the trees rustled to and the nodding flowers. I think the stones would have danced
for joy, if it so much love would in itself, but whose heart is too cold. The people had probably
soon the little bird noted as a special bird and would be a talk and Rumors of which were among
the people, if something would have prevented them from Woods that
they heard the nightingale sing before.

It behaved so that the following manner:

As the queen of the poor prince turned to the many sound and rattle like hunting the last wolfish
light of life would have blown out and as he thus over the entire wolf family brought great
misfortune, I have been told. But also went over the little birds ago it bad, and in these days
of tyranny, it was an accident, in the area of ​​the castle Being born to a Grasmück blackbird and
nightingale. Namely, the queen, after the old Lord had died and she alone had the power gebehrdete,
suddenly, as did the They affect disease that not only the screaming and screeching and cackling
intolerable Birds can not stand, but that even the sweetest tinkling and singing the funny
little Singvoegelein move them uncomfortable. And so they all the people made credible, she
was in such songs, which otherwise is wont to rejoice all the world,
a fallen parmal fainted.

But that was only an appearance, they wanted an evil deed, they wanted the death of the little
nightingale, if they fluttered around about these trees and gardens. But she knew well that the little
bird the castle on a thousand steps, not closer could, for she had placed it under the same
spell of witches, as his brother. Under the title this unfortunate and sensitivity to delicate and
subtle sounds and sounds was because certainly not just the small but charming Nightingale Princess
all other Birds grabbed by the throat and they were all done in the eight and eight, but they
were all declared outlaws, and Foerster and Jaeger of the Queen received the highest and measured the
most order, anything that wears feathers, to hunt, and the robin not even to spare the wren,
to which a good hunter never otherwise a Income lost. This terrible wrath of the Queen was
a misfortune for the whole feathered , People not only for those who flew in the open or lived
in forests and groves, but also for those who are kept on farms and in the rooms. In the capital
and in the vicinity of the royal palace was nothing Feathered live, for the people thought to ingratiate
himself with the Queen very much and to win their favor when it imitated her.


Answ. First. For certain, the sin is committed by them that do as before I have said--that
is, by a final, knowing, willful, malicious trampling under foot the blood of Christ, which
was shed on Mount Calvary when Jesus was there crucified. And though it be called the sin against
the Spirit, yet as I said before, every sin against the Spirit is not that; for if it were,
then every sin against the light and convictions of the Spirit would be unpardonable; but that
is an evident untruth, for these reasons--First, Because there be those who have sinned against
the movings of the Spirit, and that knowingly too, and yet did not commit that sin; as Jonah,
who when God had expressly by His Spirit bid him go to Nineveh, he runs thereupon quite another
way. Secondly, Because the very people that have sinned against the movings of the Spirit are
yet, if they do return, received to mercy. Witness also Jonah, who though he had sinned against
the movings of the Spirit of the Lord in doing contrary thereunto, "yet when he called," as
he saith, "to the Lord," out of the belly of Hell, "the LORD heard him, and gave him deliverance,
and set him again about his work." Read the whole story of that Prophet. But,

Answ. Second. I shall show you that it must needs be willfully, knowingly, and a malicious
rejecting of the Man Christ Jesus as the Saviour--that is, counting His blood, His righteousness,
His intercession in His own Person, for he that rejects one rejects all, to be of no value
as to salvation; I say, this I shall show you is the unpardonable sin, and then afterwards
in brief show you why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost.

[Must be a willfully and maliciously rejecting the Saviour.]

1. That man that doth reject, as aforesaid, the blood, death, righteousness, resurrection,
ascension, and intercession of the Man Christ, doth reject that sacrifice, that blood, that
righteousness, that victory, that rest, that God alone hath appointed for salvation--"Behold
the Lamb," or sacrifice, "of God" (John 1:29). "We have redemption through His blood" (Eph
1:7). That I may "be found in Him"--to wit, in Christ's righteousness, with Christ's own personal
obedience to His Father's will (Phil 3:7-10). By His resurrection comes justification (Rom
4:25). His intercession now in His own Person in the Heavens, now absent from His saints, is
the cause of the saints' perseverance (Rom 8:33-39).

2. And all spiritual blessings are made over to us through Him; that is, through and in this
Man, which is Christ, we have all our spiritual, heavenly, and eternal mercies (Eph 1:3,4).

3. He that doth knowingly, willfully, and despitefully reject this Man for salvation doth sin
the unpardonable sin, because there is never another sacrifice to be offered. "There is no
more offering for sin.--There remaineth no more sacrifice for sin," (Heb 10:18-26); namely,
than the offering of the body of Jesus Christ a sacrifice once for all (Heb 10:10,14, compared
with 18, 26). (Heb 6:4-6). "If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance."
And why so? Seeing, saith the Apostle, they do crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh,
and do put Him to an open shame. O, then, how miserably hath the devil deceived some, in that
he hath got them to reject the merits of the first offering of the body of Christ, which was
for salvation, and got them to trust in a fresh crucifying of Christ, which unavoidably brings
their speedy damnation.

4. They that do reject this Man, as aforesaid, do sin the unpardonable sin, because in rejecting
Him they do make way for the justice of God to break out upon them, and to handle them as it
shall find them; which will be, in the first place, sinners against the first covenant; and
also despising of, even the life, and glory, and consolations, pardon, grace, and love, that
is discovered in the second covenant, forasmuch as they reject the Mediator and priest of the
same, which is the Man Jesus. And the man that doth so, I would fain see how his sins should
be pardoned, and his soul saved, seeing the means, which is the Son of Man, the Son of Mary,
and His merits, are rejected; "for," saith He, "if you believe not that I am He, you shall,"
mark, "you shall," do what you can; "you shall," appear where you can; "you shall," follow
Moses' law, or any holiness whatsoever, "ye shall die in your sins" (John 8:24). So that, I
say, the sin that is called the unpardonable sin is a knowing, willful, and despiteful rejecting
of the sacrificing of the Son of Man the first time for sin.

[Why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost.]

And now to show you why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost, as in these Scriptures,
(Matt 12; Heb 10; Mark 3).

1. Because they sin against the manifest light of the Spirit, as I said before; it is a sin
against the light of the Spirit--that is, they have been formerly enlightened into the nature
of the Gospel and the merits of the Man Christ, and His blood, righteousness, intercession,
etc.; and also professed and confessed the same, with some life and comfort in and through
the profession of Him; yet now against all that light, maliciously, and with despite to all
their former profession, turn their backs and trample upon the same.

2. It is called the sin against the Holy Ghost because such a person doth, as I may say, lay
violent hands on it; one that sets himself in opposition to, and is resolved to resist all
the motions that do come in from the Spirit to persuade the contrary. For I do verily believe
that men, in this very rejecting of the Son of God, after some knowledge of Him, especially
at their first resisting and refusing of Him, they have certain motions of the Spirit of God
to dissuade them from so great a soul-damning act. But they, being filled with an overpowering
measure of the spirit of the devil, do despite unto these convictions and motions by studying
and contriving how they may answer them, and get from under the convincing nature of them,
and therefore it is called a doing despite unto the Spirit of Grace (Heb 10:29). And so,

3. In that they do reject the beseeching of the Spirit, and all its gentle entreatings of the
soul to tarry still in the same doctrine.

4. In that they do reject the very testimony of the Prophets and Apostles with Christ Himself;
I say, their testimony, through the Spirit, of the power, virtue, sufficiency, and prevalency
of the blood, sacrifice, death, resurrection, ascension, and intercession of the Man Christ
Jesus, of which the Scriptures are full both in the Old and New Testament, as the Apostle saith,
for all the Prophets from Samuel, with them that follow after, have showed of these days--that
is, in which Christ should be a sacrifice for sin (Acts 3:24, compared with verses 6, 13-15,
18, 26). Again, saith, he, "He therefore that despiseth not man, but God; who hath also given
unto us His Holy Spirit" (1 Thessalonians 4:8); that is, he rejecteth or despiseth the very
testimony of the Spirit.

5. It is called the sin against the Holy Ghost, because he that doth reject and disown the
doctrine of salvation by the Man Christ Jesus, through believing in Him, doth despise, resist,
and reject the wisdom of the Spirit; for the wisdom of God's Spirit did never more appear than
its finding out a way for sinners to be reconciled to God by the death of this Man; and therefore
Christ, as He is a sacrifice, is called the wisdom of God. And again, when it doth reveal the
Lord Jesus it is called the "Spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him" (Eph 1:17).

Object. But, some may say, the slighting or rejecting of the Son of Man, Jesus of Nazareth,
the Son of Mary, cannot be the sin that is unpardonable, as is clear from that Scripture in
Matthew 12:32, where He Himself saith, "Whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of Man, it
shall be forgiven him; but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven
him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come." Now by this it is clear that the
sin that is unpardonable is one thing, and the sin against the Son of Man another; that sin
that is against the Son of Man is pardonable; but if that was the sin against the Holy Ghost,
it would not be pardonable; therefore the sin against the Son of Man is not the sin against
the Holy Ghost, the unpardonable sin.

Answ. 1. I do know full well that there are several persons that have been pardoned, yet have
sinned against the Son of Man, and that have for a time rejected Him, as Paul (1 Tim 1:13,
14) also the Jews (Acts 2:36,37). But there was an ignorant rejecting of Him, without the enlightening,
and taste, and feeling of the power of the things of God, made mention in Hebrews 6:3-6. 2.
There is and hath been a higher manner of sinning against the Son of Man, which also hath been,
and is still, pardonable; as in the case of Peter, who in a violent temptation, in a mighty
hurry, upon a sudden denied Him, and that after the revelation of the Spirit of God from Heaven
to him, that He, Jesus, was the Son of God (Matt 16:16-18). This also is pardonable, if there
be a coming up again to repentance. O, rich grace! (verse 29). All that Paul had to keep him
from this sin was, his ignorance in persecuting the Man and merits of Jesus Christ (Acts 9).
But I obtained mercy, saith he, because I did it ignorantly (1 Tim 1:13). And Peter, though
he did deny Him knowingly, yet he did it unwillingly, and in a sudden and fearful temptation,
and so by the intercession of Jesus escaped that danger. So, I say, they that commit this sin,
they do it after light, knowingly, willfully, and despitefully, and in the open view of the
whole world reject the Son of Man for being their Lord and Saviour, and in that it is called
the sin against the Holy Ghost. It is a name most fit for this sin to be called the sin against
the Holy Ghost, for these reasons but now laid down; for this sin is immediately committed
against the motions, and convictions, and light of the Holy Spirit of God that makes it its
business to hand forth and manifest the truth and reality of the merits and virtues of the
Lord Jesus, the Son of Man. And therefore beware, Ranters and Quakers, for I am sure you are
the nearest that sin by profession, which is, indeed, the right committing of it, of any persons
that I do know at this day under the whole heavens, forasmuch as you will not venture the salvation
of your souls on the blood shed on Mount Calvary, out of the side of that Man that was offered
up in sacrifice for all that did believe (Luke 23:33). In that His offering up of His body
at that time, either before He offered it, or that have, do, or shall believe on it for the
time since, together with that time that He offered it, though formerly you did profess that
salvation was wrought out that way, by that sacrifice then offered, and also seemed to have
some comfort thereby; yea, insomuch that some of you declared the same in the hearing of many,
professing yourselves to be believers of the same. O, therefore, it is sad for you that were
once enlightened, and have tasted these good things, and yet, notwithstanding all your profession,
you are now turned from the simplicity that is in Christ to another doctrine, which will be
your destruction, if you continue in it; for without blood there is no remission (Heb 9:22).

Many other reasons might be given, but that I would not be too tedious; yet I would put in
this caution, that if there be any souls that be but now willing to venture their salvation
upon the merits of a naked Jesus, I do verily for the present believe they have not sinned
that sin, because there is still a promise holds forth itself to such a soul where Christ saith,
"Him that cometh to me, I will in nowise," for nothing that he hath done, "cast him out" (John
6:37). That promise is worth to be written in letters of gold.

Objections answered for their comfort who would have their part in the New Covenant.

Object. But, alas, though I should never sin that sin, yet I have other sins enough to damn me.

Answ. What though thou hadst the sins of a thousand sinners, yet if thou come to Christ, He
will save thee (John 6:37; See also Hebrews 7:25).

Object. Alas, but how shall I come? I doubt I do not come as I should do? My heart is naught
and dead; and, alas! then how should I come?

Answ. Why, bethink thyself of all the sins that ever thou didst commit, and lay the weight
of them all upon thy heart, till thou art down loaden with the same, and come to Him in such
a case as this, and He will give thee rest for thy soul (Matt 11:28-30). And again; if thou
wouldst know how thou shouldst come, come as much undervaluing thyself as ever thou canst,
saying, Lord, here is a sinner, the basest in all the country; if I had my deserts, I had been
damned in Hell-fire long ago; Lord, I am not worthy to have the least corner in the Kingdom
of Heaven; and yet, O that Thou wouldst have mercy! Come like Benhadad's servants to the king
of Israel, with a rope about thy neck (1 Kings 20:31,32) and fling thyself at Christ's feet,
and lie there a while, striving with Him by thy prayers, and I will warrant thee speed (Matt
11:28-30; John 6:37).

Object. O, but I am not sanctified.

Answ. He will sanctify thee, and be made thy sanctification also (1 Cor 1:30; 6:10,11).

Object. O, but I cannot pray.

Answ. To pray is not for thee to down on thy knees, and say over a many Scripture words only;
for that thou mayest do, and yet do nothing but babble. But if thou from a sense of thy baseness
canst groan out thy heart's desire before the Lord, He will hear thee, and grant thy desire;
for He can tell what is the meaning of the groanings of the Spirit (Rom 8:26,27).

Object. O, but I am afraid to pray, for fear my prayers should be counted as sin in the sight
of the great God.

Answ. That is a good sign that thy prayers are more than bare words, and have some prevalence
at the Throne of Grace through Christ Jesus, or else the devil would never seek to labour to
beat thee off from prayer by undervaluing thy prayers, telling thee they are sin; for the best
prayers he will call the worst, and the worst he will call the best, or else how should he
be a liar?

Object. But I am afraid the day of grace is past; and if it should be so, what should I do then?

Answ. Truly, with some men indeed it doth fare thus, that the day of grace is at an end before
their lives are at end. (Luke 19:41,42). But for the better satisfying of thee as touching
this thing, consider these following things--

First, Doth the Lord knock still at the door of thy heart by His Word and Spirit? If so, then
the day of grace is not past with thy soul; for where He doth so knock, there He doth also
proffer and promise to come in and sup, that is, to communicate of His things unto them, which
he would not do was the day of grace past with his soul (Rev 3:20).

Object. But how should I know whether Christ do so knock at my heart as to be desirous to come
in? That I may know also, whether the day of grace be past with me or no?

Answ. Consider these things--1. Doth the Lord make thee sensible of thy miserable state without
an interest in Jesus Christ, and that naturally thou hast no share in Him, no faith in Him,
no communion with Him, no delight in Him, or love in the least to Him? If He hath, and is doing
this, He hath, and is knocking at thy heart. 2. Doth He, together with this, put into thy heart
an earnest desire after communion with Him, together with holy resolutions not to be satisfied
without real communion with Him. 3. Doth He sometimes give thee some secret persuasions, though
scarcely discernible, that thou mayest attain, and get an interest in Him? 

But the noble forgot my not even in his glory, which I modestly on the Side was, he introduced
me to the oldest and most respected men of society, and I was welcomed with a hearty handshake
from them. They led us in a wild tumult up the stairs, I was sat between two moss-covered heads
in the place of honor, gave me Pass a large glass of beer, and a fox had to cede to the new
comer his pipe.

I was introduced because in ----- s as a student, and I confess, I liked it that bad not the
little people. There was an open, trusting tone, there was no need not in shackles of conventionality,
which are certainly the most vicious annoying umherzuschleppen, they spoke and thought as a just
liked it. If you consider that I was just in the fall In 1819 there was, so you will not be
surprised that I did not at first quite found in the conversation did. Then once I made those words
of art (technical terms), of which I have already been given a small sample to provide much,
I confused often "pig", which lucky with "bad luck", which means bad luck, such as "cut down"
even with a stick beat, beat with "cramming", with other weapons
themselves.

But something else was difficult, if not of dogs, namely, land Pauker, broom or the like was said,
we fell behind the beer glass in extremely transcendental Investigations of which I knew little
or nothing at first, but I noticed the Nouns which occurred, and
if I was pulled into the conversation, then answered I gravely: "Freedom,
our country, Germans, popularity.

Since I now have the Turner was a great and really jumps teufelsmaessige could do about this as
I let grow gradually long hair, parted such fine and combed, a delicate cut-out collar over laid
the German rock me on the blade does not understand evil, so it was no wonder I sometimes in
great esteem was among this people.

I used this influence as much as possible to the people after my views to guide and educate them
and "for winning the world".

A clear under a big part of my fellow students, a certain pious Tone crept in, I liked the
now and not in my opinion, not even for young people sent. When I think of the young gentlemen in London
and Paris, in Berlin, Vienna, Frankfurt etc., thought of the happy hours I spent in their districts,
though I have this People on the other hand, gave their beautiful, tall stature, her strong arms,
her good sense, its not only limited knowledge on the sports field, not in the ballroom, only
to exuberant Ideas and ideals, not too lively wit, to a fine scorn of the spice of life and
upset, saw when I instead nachzufliegen beautiful girl, sneaking
into the church to apply looked to listen to one of their Orthodox
professors, so I could an adverse feeling in I do not suppress.

Once I had taken so firm foot, I drew some funny brothers to me, taught to new card games,
sang songs in front of them delightful, she knew by wit, and the like to be held so that soon
more joined. Now I was more daring attacks. I stood with my fellow Sunday before the Kirchtuere,
examined with a practiced eye temporary women's, then moved when the lambs were inside the barn
and Kuester had closed, with my family in a pub opposite the church
and offered to all the guests to maintain better than the doctor N.
or Professor N. in the Church of his audience.

Before three weeks passed, I had a bigger party on my side. The more pious shouted from the start
about the raw spirit, tearing, and gave notice that we Christian were boys, but it did not help
my satires had done so good effect that they ashamed in the end even to be seen in the church,
and it was fashionable, each Sunday before the Kirchtuere to be, but up to this point and
no further.

The Wirtshaeuser were filled as ever, there was much drinking, so it ripped the custom one,
competitions keep drinking, and you will not believe it, there was even true art drinker!

Although it preached against tearing some destruction, but comforted by the old German by the
fact that their "ancestors" have also excels by drinking, were the most pious the great tankard
manufacture and forced and labored so long to them as of Goetz Berlichingen
or even like Hermann could swallow the Cherusci.

The finer, more educated It was of course from the beginning also an abomination but I pointed
to a passage in Jean Paul. He says in his unsurpassable Fixlein Quintus:

"Jerusalem noticed nice that the barbarism that is often hard behind the most beautiful, most colorful
Flor rises of Sciences, is a kind of fortifying mud to the over-refinement avert the threat
of that pile, and I think that someone who is considering how far
the science increase in a student, the son of a certain Muse barbaric
Middle Ages - the so-called Boys life - a benefactor that toughens
him again so that the refinement is not over the border runs.

"

When a master like Jean Paul, I for this occasion to thank hereby publicly say, that speaks out,
what could the little master and disciple them?

      They sat down in the black smoked pub, "muddy" quite proficient at
the "barbarous Middle Ages "and had overhauled by virtue of their
innate genius, my older wards soon.

* * * * *

CHAPTER VII.

Satan visits the colleges and what he learned there.

However, I practically lived in the manner described and made life, I also forgot the dic cur
hic not lay down again with Ernst T heoretisch e. ​​I heard the Philosophers and theologians,
and not on lectures unfleissig case of lawyers and doctors. I had to first talk about the philosophers,
by one of the brightest lights of that university, if in the distance of his speech was often
heard it said, the K T e erlhatden ufelim an L b. Such a mysterious
depth, one would say such extravagant Thoughts, such compactness of
the style, such a gorgeous eloquence was not yet been found in Israel.

I have heard him and I solemnly protest against that verdict, as if I would be sitting in it.
I have endured a lot in the world, I am even Ev. Matthaei VIII, 31 and 32 went into the swine,
but in such a philosopher - No, I would have thanked me yet!

What brought forward the good man in his sleepy, unpleasant tone was, for his listeners as well
as French for an Eskimo. You had everything properly translate into German, about it to clear
before we came that he could fly just as a different person, too. But he made himself great
because he made his conclusions in a sky-high Jacob's Ladder and such a deal with a mystical
angepinselt varnish had, on this he now climbed to ascended blue ether promised to call down
from its sun height, which he had seen, he rose and rose until he
joined the head through the clouds, looked into the pure blue of the
sky, which excludes the green grass even more beautiful than the above,
and saw Sancho Panza, when he rode the wooden horse to the sun, under
the earth the size of a mustard seed, and people like mosquitoes over
herself - nothing.

They seem to me, the good people of this kind, as the men of Babylon,
which a large Lighthouse wanted to build for all the people, so that
no course in the desert, and lo there the Lord confused their language,
that neither master nor apprentice understood each other more.

Since I praise me another of the local philosophers, he read about the logic and deduced year
in, year out, that is two times two is four, and the gentlemen Studiosi written all collisions
of issues that twice two is four. This man remained orderly in the field and Blach moved his goals
with greater composure than his illustrious colleagues, which, if
another called it hogwash not gospel, anti metacritique reviews and
reviews of the anti- sent out into the world.

I honestly confess that the devil has fun with such bad things BPAs. I suggested the way to another
Hoersaal one where they lectured about the soul of man. Just Heaven! If I would have to make
so many circumstances, a dissolute life in my purgatory to deduce! The man on the desk painted
the soul in a large blackboard and said: "As it is, gentlemen!"

He was not satisfied, he claimed, they sitting up in the pineal gland.

I quit the philosophers and theologians attended. To my people know closer to , I decided to
learn, on a Sunday after church one or the other, my visit to pay. I dressed all in black that
I had a rather theological Air, and went on my cruise. They had previously told me I should not have to
jump to conclusion to make the pure and pious character of these
men, they were a bit after the Old Testament Costume, neglecting outer
education and therefore easily fall into the link tables.

My heart armed with patience, I entered the room of the first theologians. A bluish A thick cloud
of smoke rose elderly man in a flowered dressing-gown, a all black meerschaum pipe in his hand.
He made a brief curtsy with his head and looked I then eagerly and questioningly. I explained to him
how I did the philosophy not satisfy, and that I was minded to visit some theological colleges.
He muttered some incomprehensible, but as it seemed, learned comments,
a wry smile approvingly the mouth, and walked in the room and down.

I put the invitation to accompany him on his walk ahead, and walked in just as solemn steps
beside him, as I listened carefully to what his learned Mouth may be put on. In vain! He grinned
here and there a little less, said But not another word, at least I knew nothing but the words
"smoke a pipe?"

I realized he politely offering me a pipe, but could not make use of it; for he was smoking really
bad to even number.

I've given up a long time, about anything to get embarrassed, or would have this absurd silence
the professor put me entirely out of text. As it was I leisurely her beside him, turned back
when he turned, and counted the steps that are Room in the length measure. After reading the
old Ameublement, the different clothes and Waescherudera, which lay on the chairs, the strange chaos
of his work table patterned, had I dared my scrutiny of the professor himself His appearance
was very strange. The thin and long hair hung to his bald head, the knitted Sleepyhead he held under his
arm. The gown was torn at the elbows and held various Holes, which seemed burned into it by carelessness.
One leg was a black silk Stocking and the foot with a shoe buckles clothed, the other was stuck
in a wide, past Felt slippers, and half exposed to the leg, hung a yellow socks. Before I during
was able to continue the incomprehensible silence of theologians continue my remarks, the door
was flung open, a large, skinny woman, with the redness of anger
on the narrow Cheeks, rushed in,.

"No, that's too bad, Blaise!" she
cried, "the coast is there and looking up at the Eucharist.

The Dean is standing before the altar, and you are still in a dressing gown! "

"God knows, my dear," replied the doctor quietly, "I forget the ugly! But see, I had one foot
already equipped for the service of God, as me an idea remembered that the doctor must heartily
beat Paul. "

Without paying attention to the fact that he was almost robbed of the last veil, he would hastily tear
down the gown to decorate his other carcasses to the service of the Lord. His wife, however, presented
with a quick turn in front of him and pulled the ample folds apart
her clothes, that the professor was no more visible.

"Excuse me, Mr. Candidate," she said, barely suppress their anger.

"He is the official zeal, that you will excuse him. Give us the pleasure another time. He must now in
the church. "

I walked silently to my hat and left the Ehezaerter at the hands of
his amiable Xanthippe.

"A good start in theology!" I thought, and the pleasure that other clergy men to visit, I was gone completely.
But I decided, with some lectures To hear what I said even the day after.

Imagine a long, low room, crammed with young people in the most adventurous Figures. Hats of
all colors and shapes, flowing down a long, short, rising hair, Beards, that allowed a sapper
of the old guard would not have been ashamed, and small, delicate Stutzbaertchen, gallant tail coats
and high ties, skirts and German in addition to create broad Shirt collar. So the young clerics
sat in the College. In front of each had a Kit, a pile of papers, ink and pen to the words of
wisdom straight to the ad notam. "O Plato and Socrates!"

I thought, "would have taken down your studio and academics, how many words deep, sacred knowledge
was not for nothing noisy, how majestically would have to be the folios of Socratis opera exempt
in some library! -

Now, all heads were bared.

A short, thick figure pushed his way through the ranks the young men to the lectern, it was the
doctor Schnatterer I had visited yesterday. With Wonnegefuehl he seemed to look over the assembly,
then coughed a little less, and began:

"Honorable, highly respected!"

(So ​​he said those who paid six dollars in fees).

"Wertgeschaetzte!" (That which the ordinary fee paid).

"Gentlemen!" (Which were those of poverty, or only half paid nothing). And now he began his sermon,
the feathers rattled, creaked the paper, but he looked down as the moon to rain clouds.

I could have any convenient time to attend these lectures, because the doctor treated was allowed
to become just the section de angelis Mali, which I hope EXCELLENT beaten. Truly, he would not
let me wait long. "The devil," said he, "persuaded the first People to sin and is still hostile
to the whole human race. " After this set, I now hoped to hear a philosophical appreciation
of this vicious faith; But far from it. He stayed with the first word that me and T are eufel
the Jews Would have been called Beelzebub. At a cost of learning, as I behind the poor Dressing
gown would not have sought, he threw the word Beelzebub now forty-five minutes long way and
forth. He claimed that explain one thing, it means a fly master, the mosquitoes was to drive out
of the country, others do not take the Sephub of the mosquitos, but as A nklage how the Chaldeans
and Syrians. Others explain Sephub as grave, Sepulcrum. The Feathers, chirping and flying, so profound
learning you do not hear every day. To those few Explanations but he had a full three quarters
of an hour used for the quotations from sacred and secular scribes
were endless.

From the beginning it gave me a lot of fun, the to see carried to such a dogmatic way and anatomiert
especially Satan so thoroughly.

But finally it made me bored, and I wanted to leave my place to the endless twaddle to escape,
because the doctor was resting for a moment, the handkerchiefs were used, the feet were placed
in another position, the springs and sprayed new cut - all pointed out that now a major impact
would happen.

And it was so.

The great theologian, after seeking the opinions of others be executed and duly praised it
had started, now with anointing and dignity to develop his own opinion.

He said that all these statements are no good by giving no suitable sense. He knows a very different
and I believe in this piece and still more than Michaelis DOEDERLEIN
allowed to ask.

He read namely Saephael and that means manure, litter and the like. The Devil, Beelzebub would
be here in the M r D reck, the U nreinliche, to pneuma akatharton, called the stinker, just
as in popular belief with the phenomena of Satan, a certain obscene
odor is associated.

I could not believe my ears. Such Sottise had seemed before. I was in the to use concept, the
Orthodox exegetes with the same means that once Dr. Luther, who understood no fun, I tried to him
namely, the next best inkwell to throw at his head, but it struck
me at how I could better take revenge on him; I tamed my anger, and
pushed on my revenge.

The doctor suggested but in the consciousness of his dignity to the magazine, stood up, bent down
all sides, and walked towards the door. The deep silence which had reigned in the hall, dissolved
in a dull murmur of applause on.

"What a learned man, what a deep thinker who fill the lowest learning!"
murmured the students of the great exegetes.

Diligently compared them with each other their notebooks, whether they also no word of his
striking evidence Bold of his allegations had escaped. And how happy they were, if not a jot
lacked hope where they were allowed to to get a thick, clean, whole folders.

But when they had the dear leaves in the folders, they were the old
man again.

They stuffed the mile-long pipe, you put the cap kuehn on the ears,
singing or moved big dogs from whistling, and who would have the youth,
the next step in the storm Bierhaus treat injuries sustained, considered
that they were the son and heir of orthodoxy and via recta of the
boldest conjecture of the great dogmatist come from?

Thus ended my first theological education, I was, if not in wisdom and insight, but a concept
of myself, whom I never thought become richer.

I promised myself, even with the most sacred oaths, not theologians of this school dark to hear
more.

For if the Supreme brought them under such stark terms to market,
I could hope from the rest?

But the Orthodox Saephael or Dr - had ck-soul I vowed revenge, and I was man enough to execute them.

*
* * * *

CHAPTER VIII

Satan gets Haendel and reflected.

Consequences.

Meanwhile, something else happened that I may not go over here because it as a Commenting on
the strange customs of the people among whom I lived can serve. I had for some time diligently attended
the anatomy in order to get to know the physicians. Then it happened one day that I was busy with
several friends at a carcass, by telling them through analysis of the organs of the brain, heart,
etc. Cancellation demonstrate the belief in immortality was looking for.

Suddenly I heard a voice behind me: "Ugh, how it smells!"

I turned around quickly and saw a young theologian, I have in that dogmatic Lecture by the zeal and
well-being, allowing him the absurd conjecture of Professor wrote down was against him. So when
I express this: "Ugh, how smell's here! "which I at that moment from
the theologian's lips only to me, as the" Lord in feces, "referring,
heard, I told him pretty much that I and those nasty Innuendoes will
not stand.

According to the ancient sacred book of the law of the
guys that you say Komment, this was an insult, could be washed with
blood. The theologian, an able Raufer let me are calling the next
day immediately. Such fun was desirable to me, for who are Reputation
among his fellow students wanted to say had to have beaten that time,
although the duel itself, from my friends as something irrational,
unnatural was considered. I can identify my enemy to the cause of
a pleasure resort, an hour before the city to identify and both parties
appeared at the appointed time on the spot.

Each was solemnly led
into a room, stripped him of the Upper Rock and the "Paukwichs", that
is the armor in which the duel should take place, created. This armor
or Paukwichs consisted of a wide-brimmed hat, the face gave satisfactory
protection, a vast, broad foot pad that strapped over his belly was.
She was of leather upholstery, and the color of the compound to which
they belonged, ausgeschmueckt. "Come unto Me all," every
one, though you be never so many, so vile, though your load be never so heavy and intolerable,
though you deserve no help, not the least help, no mercy, not the least compassion, yet "cast
your burden upon Me, and you shall find rest for your souls." Come unto Me and I will heal
you, love you, teach you, and tell you the way to the Kingdom of Heaven. Come unto Me, and
I will succour you, help you, and keep you from all devils and their temptations, from the
Law and its curses, and from being for ever overcome with any evil whatever. Come unto Me for
what you need, and tell Me what you would have, or what you would have Me do for you, and all
My strength, love, wisdom, and interest that I have with My Father shall be laid out for you.
Come unto Me, your sweet Jesus, your loving and tender-hearted Jesus, your everlasting and
sin-pardoning Jesus. Come unto Me, and I will wash you, and put My righteousness upon you,
pray to the Father for you, and send My Spirit into you, that you might be saved. Therefore,

Consider, besides this, what a privilege thou shalt have at the Day of Judgment above thousands,
if thou do in deed and in truth close in with this Jesus and accept of Him; for thou shalt
not only have a privilege in this life, but in the life everlasting, even at the time of Christ's
second coming from Heaven; for then, when there shall be the whole world gathered together,
and all the good angels, bad angels, saints, and reprobates, when all thy friends and kindred,
with thy neighbours on the right hand and on the left shall be with thee, beholding of the
wonderful glory and majesty of the Son of God; then shall the Son of Glory, even Jesus, in
the very view and sight of them all, smile and look kindly upon thee; when a smile or a kind
look from Christ shall be worth more than ten thousand worlds, then thou shalt have it. You
know it is counted an honour for a poor man to be favourably looked upon by a judge, or a king,
in the sight of lords, earls, dukes, and princes; why, thus it will be with thee in the sight
of all the princely saints, angels, and devils, in the sight of all the great nobles in the
world; then, even thou that closest in with Christ, be thou rich or poor, be thou bond or free,
wise or foolish, if thou close in with Him, He will say unto thee, "Well done, good and faithful
servant," even in the midst of the whole world; they that love thee shall see it, and they
that hate thee shall all to their shame behold it; for if thou fear Him here in secret, He
will make it manifest even at that day upon the house-tops.

Secondly, Not only thus, but thou shalt also be lovingly received and tenderly embraced of
Him at that day, when Christ hath thousands of gallant saints, as old Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
David, Isaiah, Jeremiah, together with all the Prophets, and Apostles, and martyrs, attending
on Him; together with many thousands of glittering angels ministering before Him; besides,
when the ungodly shall appear there with their pale faces, with their guilty consciences, and
trembling souls, that would then give thousands and ten thousands of worlds, if they had so
many, if they could enjoy but one loving look from Christ. I say, then, then shalt thou have
the hand of Christ, reached to thee kindly to receive thee, saying, Come, thou blessed, step
up hither; thou was willing to leave all for Me, and now will I give all to thee; here is a
throne, a crown, a kingdom, take them; thou wast not ashamed of Me when thou wast in the world
among my enemies, and now will not I be ashamed of thee before thine enemies, but will, in
the view of all these devils and damned reprobates promote thee to honour and dignity. Thou
shalt see that those who have served Me in truth shall lose nothing by the means. No; but ye
shall be as pillars in My temple, and inheritors of My glory, and shall have place to walk
in among My saints and angels (Zech 3:7). O! who would not be in this condition? who would
not be in this glory? It will be such a soul-ravishing glory, that I am ready to think the
whole reprobate world will be ready to run mad, to think that they should miss of it (Deu 28:34).
Then will the vilest drunkard, swearer, liar, and unclean person willingly cry, "Lord, Lord,
open to us," yet be denied of entrance; and thou in the meantime embraced, entertained, made
welcome, have a fair mitre set upon thy head, and clothed with immortal glory (Zech 3:5). O,
therefore, let all this move thee, and be of weight upon thy soul to close in with Jesus, this
tender-hearted Jesus. And if yet, for all what I have said, thy sins do still stick with thee,
and thou findest thy hellish heart loath to let them go, think with thyself in this manner--Shall
I have my sins and lose my soul? Will they do me any good when Christ comes? Canst thou set
so light of Heaven, of God, of Christ, and the salvation of thy poor, yet precious soul? Canst
thou hear of Christ, His bloody sweat and death, and not be taken with it, and not be grieved
for it, and also converted by it? If so, I might lay thee down several considerations to stir
thee up to mend thy pace towards Heaven; but I shall not; there is enough written already to
leave thy soul without excuse and to bring thee down with a vengeance into Hell-fire, devouring
fire, the Lake of Fire, eternal everlasting fire; O to make thee swim and roll up and down
in the flames of the furnace of fire!

FOOTNOTES:

1 These words are quoted from the Genevan or Breeches Bible (Mark 2:17).--Ed.

2 This quotation is from the Genevan translation (Eph 2:3).--Ed.

3 It is observable that the reason given for the punishment of the murderer with death (Gen
9:6) is taken from the affront he offers to God, not from the injury he does to man.--Scott.

4 The reader need scarcely be reminded, that by "public person" is meant the Saviour, in whom
all His people have an equal right. "For He made Him, who knew no sin, to be sin for us" (2
Cor 5:21).--ED.

5 Bunyan's first sight of the spiritual, inward, and extensive requirements of the law filled
his heart with despair; see "Grace Abounding," No. 28. It was like the alarming sound of the
drum Diabolus mentioned in the "Holy War," which caused Mansoul to shake with terror and dismay.
Thus the soul is stripped of self-righteousness, and flies to Christ, whose blood alone cleanseth
from all sin.--ED.

6 "Crank," brisk, jolly, lusty, spiritful, buxom.--ED.

7 From the Puritan or Genevan version.--ED.

8 These nine particulars are very methodically arranged, and are all deeply interesting. Very
few of those who read the scriptural law of sacrifices see how clearly they pointed as types
to Christ the great Antitype.--ED.

9 It is a mark of prying and dangerous, if not wicked curiosity to inquire whether God could
have found any other way of salvation than by the atoning death of our blessed Lord. Instead
of such vain researches, how much more consistent would it be to call upon our souls, and all
that is within us, to bless His name, who hath thus provided abundant pardon, full remission,
even to the chief of sinners.--ED.

10 The duty of the priests, under the law, led them to be familiar with the most loathsome
and catching diseases; and doubtless they took every precaution to avoid contagion. Poor sin-sick
soul, do you consider your state more loathsome and dangerous than the leprosy? Fly to Christ,
our High Priest and Physician; He will visit you in the lowest abyss of misery, without fear
of contagion, and with full powers to heal and save.--ED.

11 The word "hell" in the two verses means the unseen place of the dead, the invisible world,
or the grave.--ED.

12 How awful and vast must have been the sufferings of the Saviour, when He paid the redemption
price for the countless myriads of His saints; redeemed "out of every kindred, and tongue,
and people, and nation." Such were the ecstatic vision which Bunyan enjoyed, drawn from the
unerring pages of eternal truth.--ED.

13 This singular use of the law term "premunire," meaning that the soul has trusted in a foreign
jurisdiction, incurred God's anger, and forfeited its liberty and all its goods.--ED.

14 These are solemn truths, in homely, forcible language. Let the soul be convinced that by
the obedience of Christ it is released from the law, it has no fear of Satan or of future punishment;
Christ is all and in all.--ED.

15 "Indenture"; a written agreement, binding one party to reward the other for specified services.
As man is by nature bound to love God with all his soul, he cannot be entitled to any reward
for anything beyond his duty. When he feels that he has failed in his obedience, he must fly
to Christ for that mercy which he can never obtain by indenture of service or merit and reward.--ED.

16 Same as 15--Ed.

17 Same as 15--Ed.

18 For a deeply affecting account of the author's experience about this period read Grace Abounding,
No. 259-261.--ED.

19 "Scrabble"; to go on the hands and feet or knees. See a remarkable illustration of the word
"scrabble" in Grace Abounding, No. 335.--ED.

20 As Bunyan was a Baptist, this is full proof that his friends did not ascribe regeneration
to water baptism. It is an awful delusion to suppose that immersion in or sprinkling with water
can effect or promote the new birth or spiritual regeneration of the soul.--ED.

21 This is one of the very thrilling circumstances described by Bunyan in his Grace Abounding,
No. 24:--Sunday sports were then allowed by the State, and after hearing a sermon on the evil
of Sabbath-breaking, he went as usual to his sport.

22 The word Man was essential in Bunyan's days, as an antidote to the jargon of the Ranters,
who affirmed that Jesus only existed in the heart of the believer.--ED.

23 Same As 20--Ed.

24 Same as 22--Ed.

***

ISRAEL'S HOPE ENCOURAGED;

OR,

WHAT HOPE IS, AND HOW DISTINGUISHED FROM FAITH:

WITH ENCOURAGEMENTS FOR A HOPING PEOPLE.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

   'Auspicious hope! in thy sweet garden grow
    Wreaths for each toil, a charm for every woe.'

Christian hope is a firm expectation of all promised good, but especially of eternal salvation
and happiness in heaven, where we shall be like the Son of God. This hope is founded on the
grace, blood, righteousness, and intercession of Christ--the earnest of the Holy Spirit in
our hearts, and the unchangeable truths and enlightening power of God.[1] 'Every man that hath
this hope in him purifieth himself even as God is pure' (1 John 3:3). Blessed hope! (Titus
2:13). Well might the apostle pray for the believing Romans, 'That ye may abound in hope through
the power of the Holy Ghost' (15:13). 'Which is Christ in you the hope of glory' (Col 1:27).
This is the sacred, the solemn, the all-important subject which Bunyan in his ripe age makes
the theme of his meditations and of his deeply impressive exhortations.

When drawing near the end of his pilgrimage--while in the fullest fruition of his mental powers--he
gives the result of his long and hallowed experience to comfort and cherish his fellow pilgrims
in their dangerous heaven-ward journey. One of his last labours was to prepare this treatise
for the press, from which it issued three years after his decease, under the care of his pious
friend Charles Doe.

Here, as drawn from the holy oracles of God, we contemplate Hope, the helmet of salvation,
without which our mental powers are exposed to be led captive into despair at the will of Satan.
Poor, lame, infirm, helpless man, cannot live without tender--great--rich--manifold--abounding
mercies. 'No faith, no hope,' 'to hope without faith is to see without eyes, or expect without
reason.' Faith is the anchor which enters within the vail; Christ in us the hope of glory is
the mighty cable which keeps us fast to that anchor. 'Faith lays hold of that end of the promise
that is nearest to us, to wit, in the Bible--Hope lays hold of that end that is fastened to
the mercy-seat.' Thus the soul is kept by the mighty power of God. They who have no hope, enter
Doubting Castle of their own free will--they place themselves under the tyranny of Giant Despair--that
he may put out their eyes, and send them to stumble among the tombs, and leave their bones
in his castle-yard, a trophy to his victories, and a terror to any poor pilgrim caught by him
trespassing on Bye-path Meadow.[2] Hope is as a guardian angel--it enables us to come boldly
to a throne of grace 'in a goodly sort.' The subject is full of consolation. Are we profanely
apt to judge of God harshly, as of one that would gather where he had not strawn? Hope leads
us to form a holy and just conception of the God of love. 'Kind brings forth its kind, know
the tree by his fruit, and God BY HIS MERCY IN CHRIST. What has God been doing for and to his
church from the beginning of the world, but extending to and exercising loving-kindness and
mercy for them? Therefore he laid a foundation for this in mercy from everlasting.' 'There
is no single flowers in God's gospel garden, they are all double and treble; there is a wheel
within a wheel, a blessing within a blessing in all the mercies of God; they are manifold,
a man cannot receive one but he receives many, many folded up one within another.' Bless the
Lord, O my soul!!

Reader, my deep anxiety is that you should receive from this treatise the benefits which its
glorified author intended it to produce. It is accurately printed from the first edition. My
notes are intended to explain obsolete words or customs or to commend the author's sentiments.
May the Divine blessing abundantly replenish our earthen vessels with this heavenly hope.

GEO. OFFOR.

FOOTNOTES:

1. Cruden.

2. Pilgrim's Progress.

Israel's Hope Encouraged;

'Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.'--Psalms
130:7

This Psalm is said to be one of 'the Psalms of Degrees,' which some say, if I be not mistaken,
the priests and Levites used to sing when they went up the steps into the temple.[1] But to
let that pass, it is a psalm that gives us a relation of the penman's praying frame, and of
an exhortation to Israel to hope in God.

Verse 1. 'Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord'; that is, out of deep or great
afflictions, and said, 'Lord, hear my voice, let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my
supplications.' The latter words explain the former; as who should say, By voice I mean the
meaning and spirit of my prayer. There are words in prayer, and spirit in prayer, and by the
spirit that is in prayer, is discerned whether the words be dead, lifeless, feigned, or warm,
fervent, earnest; and God who searcheth the heart, knoweth the meaning of the Spirit, because
he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God (Rom 8:27). Verse 3. 'If
thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?' Here he confesseth, that all
men by the law must fall before God for ever; for that they have broken it, but cannot make
amends for the transgression thereof. But, he quickly bethinking himself of the mercy of God
in Christ, he saith, verse 4, 'But there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared.'
Then he returns, saying, verse 5, 'I wait for the Lord,' that is, in all his appointments;
yea, he doubleth it, saying, 'My soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.' By which repetition
he insinuates, that many are content to give their bodily presence to God in his appointments,
while their hearts were roving to the ends of the earth; but for his part he did not so. Verse
6. 'My soul waiteth for the Lord, more than they that watch for the morning, I say, more than
they that watch for the morning.' As who should say, even as it is with those that are tired
with the night, either by reason of dark or wearisome journies, or because of tedious sickness,
to whom the night is most doleful and uncomfortable, waiting for spring of day; so wait I for
the Lord, that his presence might be with my soul. So and more too I say, 'More than they that
wait for the morning.' Then he comes to the words which I have chosen for my text, saying,
'Let Israel hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.'

In which words we have, FIRST, AN EXHORTATION; SECOND, A REASON OF THAT EXHORTATION; and THIRD,
AN AMPLIFICATION OF THAT REASON. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord'; there is the exhortation; 'For
with the Lord there is mercy'; there is the reason of it; 'And with him is plenteous redemption';
there is the amplification of that reason.

[FIRST. AN EXHORTATION.]

In the exhortation there are three things to be inquired into. FIRST, The matter contained
in it; SECOND, The manner by which it is expressed; THIRD, The inferences that do naturally
flow therefrom.

[FIRST. The matter contained in the exhortation.]

We will speak first to the matter contained in the text, and that presenteth itself unto us
under three heads. First, A duty. Second, A direction for the well management of that duty.
Third, The persons that are so to manage it.

First, Then, to speak to the duty, and that is HOPE; 'Let Israel HOPE.' By which word there
is something pre-admitted, and something of great concern insinuated.

That which is pre-admitted is faith; for when we speak properly of hope, and put others distinctly
to the duty of hoping, we conclude that such have faith already; for no faith, no hope. To
hope without faith, is to see without eyes, or to expect without a ground: for 'Faith is the
substance of things hoped for,' as well with respect to the grace, as to the doctrine of faith
(Heb 11:1). Doth such a one believe? No. Doth he hope? Yes. If the first is true, the second
is a lie; he that never believed, did never hope in the Lord. Wherefore, when he saith, 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord,' he pre-supposeth faith, and signifieth that he speaketh to believers.

That which is of great concern insinuated, is, that hope has in it an excellent quality to
support Israel in all its troubles. Faith has its excellency in this, hope in that, and love
in another thing. Faith will do that which hope cannot do. Hope can do that which faith doth
not do, and love can do things distinct from both their doings. Faith goes in the van, hope
in the body, and love brings up the rear: and thus 'now abideth faith, hope,' and 'charity'
(1 Cor 13:13). Faith is the mother-grace, for hope is born of her, but charity floweth from
them both.

But a little, now we are upon faith and hope distinctly, to let you see a little. 1. Faith
comes by hearing (Rom 10:17), hope by experience (Rom 5:3,4). 2. Faith comes by hearing the
Word of God, hope by the credit that faith hath given to it (Rom 4:18). 3. Faith believeth
the truth of the Word, hope waits for the fulfilling of it. 4. Faith lays hold of that end
of the promise that is next to us, to wit, as it is in the Bible; hope lays hold of that end
of the promise that is fastened to the mercy-seat; for the promise is like a mighty cable,
that is fastened by one end to a ship, and by the other to the anchor: the soul is the ship
where faith is, and to which the hither[2] end of this cable is fastened; but hope is the anchor
that is at the other end of this cable, and which entereth into that within the vail. Thus
faith and hope getting hold of both ends of the promise, they carry it safely all away. 5.
Faith looketh to Christ, as dead, buried, and ascended; and hope to his second coming (1 Cor
15:1-4). Faith looks to him for justification, hope for glory (Rom 4:1-8). 6. Faith fights
for doctrine, hope for a reward (Acts 26:6,7). Faith for what is in the bible, hope for what
is in heaven (Col 1:3-5). 7. Faith purifies the heart from bad principles (1 John 5:4,5). Hope
from bad manners (2 Peter 3:11,14; Eph 5:8; 1 John 3:3). 8. Faith sets hope on work, hope sets
patience on work (Acts 28:20, 9:9). Faith says to hope, look for what is promised; hope says
to faith, So I do, and will wait for it too. 9. Faith looks through the word to God in Christ;
hope looks through faith beyond the world to glory (Gal 5:5).

Thus faith saves, and thus hope saves. Faith saves by laying hold of God by Christ (1 Peter
1:5). Hope saves by prevailing with the soul to suffer all troubles, afflictions, and adversities
that it meets with betwixt this and the world to come, for the sake thereof (Rom 8:24). Take
the matter in this plain similitude. There was a king that adopted such a one to be his child,
and clothed him with the attire of the children of the king, and promised him, that if he would
fight his father's battles, and walk in his father's ways, he should at last share in his father's
kingdoms. He has received the adoption, and the king's robe, but not yet his part in the kingdom;
but now, hope of a share in that will make him fight the king's battles, and also tread the
king's paths. Yea, and though he should meet with many things that have a tendency to deter
him from so doing, yet thoughts of the interest promised in the kingdom, and hopes to enjoy
it, will make him out his way through those difficulties, and so save him from the ruin that
those destructions would bring upon him, and will, in conclusion, usher him into a personal
possession and enjoyment of that inheritance. Hope has a thick skin, and will endure many a
blow; it will put on patience as a vestment, it will wade through a sea of blood, it will endure
all things, if it be of the right kind, for the joy that is set before it. Hence patience is
called, 'Patience of hope,' because it is hope that makes the soul exercise patience and long-suffering
under the cross, until the time comes to enjoy the crown (1 Thess 1:3). The Psalmist, therefore,
by this exhortation, persuadeth them that have believed the truth, to wait for the accomplishment
of it, as by his own example he did himself--'I wait for the Lord,' 'my soul waiteth,' 'and
in his word do I hope.' It is for want of hope that so many brisk professors that have so boasted
and made brags of their faith, have not been able to endure the drum[3] in the day of alarm
and affliction. Their hope in Christ has been such as has extended itself no further than to
this life, and therefore they are of all men the most miserable.

The Psalmist therefore, by exhorting us unto this duty, doth put us in mind of four things.
I. That the best things are yet behind, and in reversion for the saints. II. That those that
have believed, will yet meet with difficulties before they come at them. III. The grace of
hope well exercised, is the only way to overcome these difficulties. IV. They therefore that
have hope, and do exercise it as they should, shall assuredly at last enjoy that hope that
is laid up for them in heaven.

I. For the first of these, that the best things are yet behind, and in reversion for believers;
this is manifest by the natural exercise of this grace. For 'hope that is seen, is not hope;
for what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? But if we hope for that we see not, then do
we with patience wait for it' (Rom 8:24,25). Hope lives not by sight, as faith doth; but hope
trusteth faith, as faith trusts the Word, and so bears up the soul in a patient expectation
at last to enjoy what God has promised. But I say, the very natural work of this grace proveth,
that the believer's best things are behind in reversion.

You may ask me, what those things are? and I may tell you, first, in general, they are heavenly
things, they are eternal things, they are the things that are where Christ sitteth on the right
hand of God (John 3:12; 2 Cor 4:18; Col 3:1). Do you know them now? Do you know them now? They
are things that are referred to the next world, for the saints when they come into the next
world; talked of they may be now, the real being of them may be believed now, and by hope we
may, and it will be our wisdom to wait for them now; but to know what they are in the nature
of them, or in the enjoyment of them, otherwise than by faith, he is deceived that saith it.
They are things too big as yet to enter into our hearts, and things too big, if they were there
to come out, or to be expressed by our mouths.

There is heaven itself, the imperial heaven; does any body know what that is? We did nothing but re- our Lord to take
refuge with Natas. He had promised, when women of Truebenau to watch with the chambermaid,
but, dear God, he must have slept like a roof; because we knocked three or four times until
he gave us answer, and the chamber cat was not now to give more. "

"Well, he let the beautiful Rosalie to bleed?"

"No, he has her, as I said Lizzie, mustard plaster two hands laid
on his heart, it It should have been soon.

"

"Poor Professor!" I thought, "your pretty roses with her sixteen more years and this Natas in
the cozy quiet of the night, paving the pappend to the throbbing
heart.

"

"The Lord Ökonomierat dad was probably very offended by the story?"

I asked, about the thing to get into the clear.

"It did not, for he was asleep, before Lizzie with the spirit of the
Hirschhorn Pharmacy back.

But it rings on the second floor, and I shall. "He's said and flew speed motion like this.

So on even the merry company was scattered, and yet I did not know
how all this could come so suddenly.

I remembered though, that yesterday at the punch something strange happened was, what might it
have been but I could not remember.

Natas should be able to give me information?

But when pondering right, was something Natas happened. The professor hesitated about in my memory
- best I seemed to Natas to go and ask him the cause of the rapid departure.

I threw myself into my clothes, and before I finished completely with the short dress was brought
Lohnlakai me a ticket the following:

"Ew. Honor would put me endlessly when you before my departure from here, the set at noon,
I still wanted to visit again. v. Natas.

"

Curious, I answered his call and met her friend ready for the journey
between suitcases and boxes stand.

He met me with his winning excellence, it embarrassed me an unmistakable Train of irony, who
played yesterday at his mouth and I had never seen him otherwise.

He laughed at me that I reported myself to the ladies as a drinker and a weak I have hair-bag
strapped, told me that I was blissfully asleep, and asked me with a watchful eye, I still knew
about last night.

I told him my confused memories, he laughed heartily, and called them
Figments of a sick imagination.

The departure of the entire society, he was a big fall celebration fault, which would be kept in
Worms.

They were all, even the morose Ökonomierat, traveled there, it But even shouted down his business the
Rhine.

The coincidences of Truebenau and the beautiful Rosalie mass he was pleased with the strong
punch and to carry just a hobby to have as many medical knowledge
in order for such small random able to help.

We heard the car drive up, the waiter brought it and reported by the grateful Hotel a bottle of
the most ancient Rhine wine. Natas had earned it, because in truth, only he had as long as us
here in chains.

"You're a writer, Doctor?" he asked me while we the narcotic scented Ausschluerften farewell drink.

"If
not now dabbles a little in the literature?" I answered him. "I have earlier as a poet tried,
but I soon saw enough that I can not for the immortality sing. I therefore took a few notes
lower and immortal, translated works of foreign nations love for German audiences. "

He praised my humble resignation, as he called it, and asked me if I bring myself could, the
memoirs of a famous man who had until now only available in manuscript,
to translate?

"Provided that you can decipher, it is an easy job for you, I would
give you the keys to the manuscript and in High German be authentic.

"

I showed me, as of course, very willing to do so. I understood earlier decipher and it hoped with little
practice to get perfect. He completed a nice box of red morocco, and handed me a manuscript bound
together often.

The characters I crawled around in front of the eye, like ants in their aufgestoerten hillock,
but he gave me the key to his secret writing, and the work seemed to me again so easily.

We hugged us and told us goodbye. In warm thanks for his mercy that at last even had for me, for the beautiful
days that he had prepared us, I accompanied him to the Car.

The Wagentuere joined, the coachman struck on his four horses, she
preferred to and the interesting phenomenon flew from hence, but from
inside the car I thought to hear that throaty laugh, which I of yesterday
under the Bruchstuecken my memory preserved.

When I ascended the stairs, I handed the waiter a letter.

The Professor I told him to such a pass my own hands, I ripped it up -

"Dear, Wertgeschaetzter!

"I am about to board my horse and out of this cave of roaring lions to . Escape I tell you
in writing good-bye, because you from the deathlike stupor, you harder than has befallen us
all, are not to wake. The fact that our beautiful together had to end so horribly! Is not it,
dear skeptic, now you have it clear that this Natas was nothing more
than Satan incarnate!

"He looks me perhaps at this moment about the shoulder and reads what I say: but I do not say nothing.
Ökonomierat the poor and his daughter, the pale Truebenau, my beautiful Things, the captain
and the chief forester, he has in his network. God grant that he did not also lured. Me he
has half and half, for I have been bitten too deeply in his ideas
on chemical studded Angel.

I tear myself away and do that I'll continue.

"Good-bye, Best! Monday, 7 October, early 6th clock."

Now my memories came back in droves.

Yes, it was the devil that his game had played with us, it was the
devil, which she had yesterday was fun, to frighten us; It had to
be the devil's memoirs, which I held in my hand.

  
  Those who stood by me but for the fact that this
                           graffiti crept up to me not by the eye to the brain and made me mad,
and I could not just because I want the Dechiffreur Dekopisten and
power of Satan, to write to his unconscious into servitude?

I took the manuscript in my suitcase and went to the professor to his advice to . Ask But I met
in Worms no trace of any of the fun society in the three Imperial crowns. Either it has collected
of Satan and in his eight-seat car His eternal kingdom gehaudert, or he sent me in April.
The latter seemed likely.

In Worms but I met a pious clergyman, who was employed at the cathedral. I helped him in front
of my case and was told that I should read about it so many fairs To leave when the manuscript
contained arc. The Council did not seem evil.

I traveled in my And sent home next Sunday for the first sheet in the Church of Satan. Probatum
est; on Monday, I began to decipher and not have the slightest Absolute and neither The paper
even remarked to me.

Of my comrades in Mainz, I have heard, however, little more. The professor continues, to shine
through his discoveries in chemistry, and I fear he is on the way to give the devil hearing,
will make him a B erzelius.

The captain should have shot himself, wife of Things, however, the beautiful widow, after a display
Hamburger correspondents not long married again.

* * * * *

THE STUDY OF SATAN TO THE FAMOUS UNIVERSITY ...... EN.

"Deceiver deceived! Your rings are not all three real! The real ring was probably lost. " Lessing,
Nathan. III. 7.

FIFTH CHAPTER.

Introductory remarks.

All the world reads or writes memoir at this time, in the salons of the great and small Residences, in the
resources and casinos Mittelstaedt, in the Tabagie and pubs of small talk of sentenced memoirs, memoirs,
and tells according to memoirs, yes, it might seem, since it was twelve years as nothing more
strange to the earth, Memoirs.

Men and women take the spring in order to show the people writing that they also lived in a strange
time, that they too once in a Sonnennaehe have moved to their otherwise have been kept free
person an aura of importance awarded.

Crowned heads, not content, from its former grandeur, where, as in the Images primer, with a
crown on his head went to bed, to have collected, not satisfied so that they fly through courier trips
to Europe from one end to another in order to assure each other of their friendship, writing
memoirs for their peoples, tell them their fortunes, their trips. The contemporary world has
been made for posterity, it has its a new standard by which they judge the actions given into the
hands, it is the Memoirs.

Great generals, famous marshals, far from imitating the example of that Roemer, the leisure of
peace in the deeds of the legions under his leadership worthy of posterity about delivering
believed that if he ever spoke of himself only in the third person, have the modest path taken,
speak of themselves, as befits men of such weight, when I build from their memoirs Odeon in rejuvenated
scale and connect hearty front on stage on. With Schlachtstuecken on a large scale, they decorate
the scenes; statesmen Ladies and famous, the great army and its laurel-crowned eagle, the whole
world around put them in the background as background actors, but they even play their Sulla
or Brutus, worthy of the immortal Talma.

Mundus vult decipi, that is, people read memoirs, what holds me the
same even such a Court "welcome" vorzusetzen?

It uses may include: "The cobbler stick to his last, Satan has not with memoir writing leave. "

Ei! really? And if Satan but this would have a job, memoirs wool over the world, If only he had
seen such much or even more than the military or diplomatic diplomats
Warriors who fill the world with her literary fame after Bulletins
aufgehoert of their victories have mentioned, if now in this poor
devil a desire to felt, even for a homo literatus apply to?

Yes, I confess to blushing, the longer I was exaggerating about my love in Germany, the more irresistible
it pulls me out to writers, and if it allows the ladies is to spot the finger with ink, it
is the devil but also be allowed to?

And this brings me to a second point, you might say to my writing Try, I was not a literatus,
not a man of companies & c. For now, I have just The ladies, who, if they have so learned're not scholars
by profession to lead, had the honor, then I appeal to those sons of the camp, the major threats
become gray, under strain, had no time to study humanities, and yet so gleaming write memoirs,
and I say, thirdly, that the prejudice that I was a unstudierter
Vicious, very wrong, for I am become a doctor of philosophy in optima
forma, as be seen from my memoirs, and may have a degree black to
white.

The Archangel Gabriel, when I took him with the plan to develop my
memoirs, known warned me with a thoughtful expression before the so-called
reviewers.

He gave me to understand that I could get away evil by no one save those, and even more recently
even have brought doctors of theology in Berlin, Halle and Leipzig hard. I replied not without learning,
that the saying "clericus clericum non Decimate" propriety and be applied to my relationship
to the reviewer can, I will anyway have the atan Old Testament S,
adversarius, the adversary is called that at all, those passe, the
most striking proof, I suppose, but from the New Testament, where
I will diabolos or detractors called, since now diaballein as much
as acerbe recens, he must, if he had only a little logic, can draw
the conclusion by itself.

       

The archangel was as natural, not a little respect for my learning in languages and even said that
I'm missing on this type.

It is in reading through these messages from my memoirs, perhaps not that systematic, peaceful progress
of the speech found that the works of deep thinking intellects to
be as intrinsically maintains.

It will be shorter and longer Bruchstuecke of my reign and bustle of the Earth miss and find
the inner connection.

We do not blame me for it; it was not my intention to create a painting this time, you meet their
solid enough in all bookshops in Germany.

The memoir writer has achieved his purpose when he himself and his
position at the time angehoert which he represents, and reflects about
it, if he develops events, either him or his contemporaries have close
or distant relationship when he famous presents his contemporaries
and his relationships with you in mind.

And believe these claims I have met in my memoirs, they are the least to me in my work initiated,
to justify my audacity in front of me, than a writer honored public
occur.

       [Footnote: What the devil speaks seriously and taught in the guise
of can be almost like a young candidate of theology, print his first
sermon!

Note the publisher.]

About personality, famous ancestry or bright
conditions, the devil nothing to say.

What could be more to say about it, I've listed in the "visit Goethe
"pronounced and therefore refer the reader there.

Diligent reader, ds like those that fly over the bow for bow in a quarter hour, Thus, what about
not beat this part because he much to better understanding of the rest is set up, modest and
ordinary readers, I have to say about anything here as: they should put down the book when they are
bored.

* * * * *

Before his servant comes back with the second arc of the show, nor has the undersigned Time,
some remarks einzuflicken. It seems to him namely, Satan possesses a considerable Dose of vanity,
you notice just how important he speaks of that section, in which he makes some comments, it
would be enough if it had been only suggested that related to this
or that is in it, but to recommend to the reader, but he would like
the section included in those which are not about to beat is very
presumptuous.

Then the disorder, in which he makes it!

Another, like the editors, would have it, though not with the birth certificate, but this is no
course the devil is indeed possible is at least starting with the incident that the chronology
is after the first. I durchblaettert the manuscript fugitive (read before each arch dedicated
sufficiently I am well in eight) and found that it begins with events that the whole new Time
all belonged, and later in the colorful mixtures of people and their deeds of ten, twenty years
can occur, one can see well that he did not have good school needs.

For greater clarity, and that the interested reader can choose in
spite of the devil, what he wants, I have provided the contents of
each chapter.

T he H ublisher r.

* * * * *

CHAPTER VI.

How Satan involves the University and the friendships he makes there.

Germany has always been particularly pleasing to me, and I admit it,
it is this confession a little selfishness is based; It was believed
there to me like in the gospel, those Kuehnen philosophical Wagehaelsen
that, at the risk that I take her to me, my have denied existence
and made me a ridiculous phantom, it is not yet managed to destroy
the lucky children sense that people, in whose unclouded imagination
I still black as a Moor, with horns and claws, and tail with Bocksfuessen
continue living as their ancestors have known me.

If other nations are screwed up by the so-called Enlightenment to the extent that they I believe nothing
of a god, even at no more vicious, so here make under this People, even my arch enemies, the
theologians, for the fact that I stay in the standing. Hand in Hand with the belief in the
deity falls on them, faith in me, and how many times I've me so cute
word heard from her lips: "Anathema, sit erglaubtankei NEN T eufe l. "

I am therefore quite annoyed that I did not have reasonable at the idea earlier I come, spend my free
time on a university to see where, how I systematically from semester to semester beaten.

I could still enjoy the way some things. All the world is now civilized, refined, civilized, well
read, taught. Many times when I thought to make a good cut, it was found I want a good school
bag, some philosophy, ancient literature, so lacking even a little medicine; emerged only as
the magnetization, I also took a course at Messmer and after Health made many happy. But this
is not done today, so the wretched Phrases, which are circulating
in Germany: eindummer eufel T-arm r T eufel, einunwissender T eufel
what appeared neglected my to indicate scientific education.

It is born a scholar from the sky, and I've fallen from heaven, but not as taught, so I decided
that I wanted to study, and perhaps it in the philosophy to get to the point that I would invent
a whole new system, of which I no small Promised success. I chose ----- s and moved in the fall of
1819 on there.

I had, as you can imagine, not fail to tell me to my new costume in style. My name was B Arbe, shiny
my circumstances, which means that I brought a with large changes, had a lot of cash money,
good clothes and kept myself well, as a newcomer or, as they say,
act as a fox, but I had already studied everywhere, me look around
the world.

No wonder I have the first evening of polite society, the next morning had trusted friends and brothers
on the second evening to life and death on the arms. You might think I'm exaggerating, I would
be cavalier, I would honor to represent and "Get me the hell" Set as Verstaerkungspartikel this (because
"On my honor" and "Get me the devil" behavior to one another as the spirit to lenis Spiritus
asper), in my situation, I can only my motto passed as Satan.

They were good boys, I found there. It went as follows but this: you can To think that I was
not unprepared, those who know the German universities only removed
know that one of language, customs, dress and way of thinking from
the world entirely different People's lives there.

I read the immortal Mr. Schmalz's works about the university, Aktenstuecke Sands, head over
fraternities and Country Teams & c., but was still not quite make
it and realized that I still lacked many.

The accident helped me out of the Not F. I took a Retourchaise, my partner was an old student, who has
been eight years lay on the medicine. He had the savoir vivre of an old boys, and I am eagerly,
in the six hours that I supply him with the town of Muse, to him my to study role.

There was a large, well-built man of four to twenty-five years, his hair was dark earlier and
might be adapted to today's method, but it hung because the Studiosus spared the cost, it can
be to shave, messy around the head, but he tried to Such a comb too often with five fingers from
the forehead. His face was beautiful, especially Nose and mouth, finely shaped and fine, the eye
had a lot of expression, but what a strange impression made it! The
face of the sun started reddish brown, a large beard overgrown by
the temple to chin, and around the lips hung a fine beer from the
reddened Henriquatre.

His facial expression was awful and ridiculous
at the same time, the eyebrows were drawn together somber and formed
wrinkles, the eyes looked sternly and proudly around him, and each
mass Thoughts with a majesty, a dignity that would have been worthy
of a king's son.

On the lower parts of the face, especially about
the chin, I could not quite make be, for they stuck deep in the tie.
The garment seemed to the young man devoted far more attention to
than the rest of the suit, this casual half Shoe height measured binding
of black silk ran without throwing a wrinkle in including the chin
to the sternum and was excluded in this way a fine masonry, on which
the head was resting, his clothing was white in a yellow coat he baize,
in affectionate moments probably Gottfried and what he called food
and drinks told, these Gottfried baize reached to a margin over the
knee and joined closely to the whole body, on the chest was open and
he showed so much to see the tie left, that the Lord Studiosus with
clothing is to be not well endowed.

Width, wave sweeping trousers
of black velvet joined to the outer garment; the boots were neatly
formed and served enormous spurs of polished iron to the slide. 

On
his head was a little piece of red cloth Studiosus in the form of
an inverted flower ceramic body hanged, which he knew to be balanced
with a lot of art against the wind, it looked funny almost as if it
were covered with a small drinking glass, a large cabbage head.

I
had studied Zachariae immortal swaggerers too good not to know that
as soon as I lost a brother nakedness against the Lord grant his respect
was lost to me forever; I saw him so his brow wrinkles, his serious,
eye gauging, as far as it went, from and had the joy that he me right
after the first hour before striking the "Philistines and the Florbesen,
"in German, an old professor and his daughter, which the rest of our
Travel company accounted distinguished. That we that have hope and rightly exercise it, might assuredly enjoy that hope that is
laid up for us in heaven: God has promised it, and that to our Saviour for us. Had he promised
it to us, we might yet have feared, for that with our faults we give a cause of continual provocation
to him. But since he hath promised it to Christ, it must assuredly come to us by him, because
Christ, to whom it is promised, never gave occasion of provocation to him to take it back.
And that it was promised to Christ, it is evident, because it was promised before the world
began: 'In hope of eternal life,' saith Paul, 'which God, that cannot lie, promised before
the world began' (Titus 1:2). And this is, that we might hope. Men that use to hope to enjoy
that money or estate, that by those that are faithful is promised to them, and put into the
hands of trusty persons for them; why this is the case, God that cannot lie, has promised it
to the hopers, and has put it into the hand of the trusty Jesus for us, therefore let us hope
that in his times we shall both see and enjoy the same we hope for.

4. Yea, that all ground of doubt and scruple as to this might be removed out of the way, when
Christ, who as to what was last said, is our hope (1 Tim 1:1), shall come, he shall bring that
grace and mercy with him that shall even from before his judgment-seat remove all those things
that might have any tendency in them to deprive us of our hope, or of the thing hoped for by
us. Here then you see that there is grace and mercy still for us in reversion; grace and mercy
to be brought unto us at the revelation, or second coming of Jesus Christ. How then can we
be hindered of our hope? For transporting mercy will then be busy for them that indeed have
here the hope of eternal life. None knows the mystery of God's will in all things revealed
in his Word. Therefore many texts are looked over, or laid by, as those whose key doth go too
hard; nor will I boast of any singular knowledge in any particular thing.[11] Yet methinks
since grace and mercy was not only brought by Christ when he came into the world, but shall
be brought again with him when he comes in his Father's glory, it signifies, that as the first
brought the beginning of eternal life to us while we were enemies, this second will bring the
full enjoyment of it to us while we are saints, attended with many imperfections. And that
as by the first grace of all unworthiness was pardoned and passed by; so by this second grace,
the grace that is to be brought unto us at the revelation of Jesus Christ, all shortness in
duties, and failings in performances, shall be spared also; and we made possessors by virtue
of this grace and mercy of the blessings hoped for, to wit, the blessings of eternal life.
But thus much for the duty contained in the exhortation, to wit, of hoping.

[Second. A direction to the well managing of the duty of hope.]

I shall therefore come, in the next place, to treat of the well managing of this duty with
reference to this primary object, which is the Lord himself. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.'
There is a general object of hope, and there is a particular object; there is a common object,
and there is a special one. Of the general and common object, to wit, of heaven and happiness,
I have said something already; wherefore it remains that now we come and treat of this particular
and special object of our hope: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' The Lord, therefore, is to be
the particular and special object of our hope: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' Now in that there
is not only a duty here exhorted to, but a direction for the better management of that duty,
to the particular and special object upon which this duty should be exercised, it suggesteth,
how apt good men are, especially in times of trouble, the case of Israel now, to fix their
hopes in other things than on the Lord. We have seen a great deal of this in our days; our
days indeed have been days of trouble, especially since the discovery of the Popish plot, for
then we began to fear cutting of throats, of being burned in our beds, and of seeing our children
dashed in pieces before our faces. But looking about us, we found we had a gracious king, brave
parliaments, a stout city, good lord-mayors, honest sheriffs, substantial laws against them,
and these we made the object of our hope, quite forgetting the direction in this exhortation,
'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' For indeed the Lord ought to be our hope in temporals, as well
as in spirituals and eternals. Wherefore Israel of old were checked, under a supposition of
placing their hope for temporals in men; 'It is better to trust in the Lord, than to put confidence
in man. It is better to trust in the Lord, than to put confidence in princes' (Psa 118:8,9).
And again, 'Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help'
(Psa 146:3). This implieth that there is in us an incidency to forget God our hope, and to
put confidence in something else. And to be sure we shall find it the more difficult to make
the Lord our hope only, when things that are here, though deceitfully, proffer us their help.[12]
But my design is not to treat of the object of hope but with reference to the next world. And
as to that we must take heed that we set our hope in God, in God in the first place, and in
nothing below or besides himself. To this end it is that he has given us his word, and appointed
a law to Israel.

I. Because of his own grace he is become the special object of hope, designating himself in
the most special sense to be the portion of his people (Psa 78:5-7)--'The Lord is my portion,
saith my soul, therefore will I hope in him' (Lam 2:24). Wherefore this we must look well to,
and take heed that we miss not of this object (Psa 146:5). This is the special object, the
ultimate object, the object that we cannot be without; and that, short of which, we cannot
be happy as, God willing, shall be showed more anon (Jer 50:7). God is not only happiness in
himself, but the life of the soul, and he that puts goodness into every thing in the next world,
in which goodness shall be found (Jer 17:13). And this our Lord Jesus Christ himself affirmeth,
when he saith, 'I am the way,' to wit, the way to life and happiness. And yet he saith, 'I
am the way to the Father,' for that it is HE that is the fountain and ocean of happiness and bliss.

So then, that we might in the next world be heirs of the highest good, God has made us heirs
of his own good self; 'Heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ'; heirs of God through Christ
(Rom 18:17; Gal 4:7). This God, this eternal God, therefore, is of necessity to be the object
of our hope, because he is, of grace, become our hope. The church in heaven, called the body
and temple of God, is to be an habitation for himself, when it is finished, to dwell in for
ever and ever. This then we hope for, to wit, to be possessed at that day with eternal life;
eternal glory (1 Tim 6:12,19). Now this eternal life and eternal glory is through God the hope
of his people (1 Peter 5:10; 1 John 5:20). Nor can it be, that heaven and happiness should
ever be the portion of them that make not God their hope, any more than such a lady should
hope to enjoy the estate of such a lord, who first makes not the lord himself her husband.[13]
Heaven, heaven is the talk of the ignorant, while the God of heaven they cannot abide. But
shall such ever come to glory? But,

II. God must be the special object of our hope, and him in special that must be enjoyed by
us in the next world, or nothing can make us happy. We will suppose now, for the illustrating
of this matter, that which is not to be supposed. As,

1. Suppose a man, when he dieth, should go to heaven, that golden place, what good would this
do him, if he was not possessed of the God of it? It would be, as to sweetness, but a thing
unsavoury; as to durableness, but a thing uncertain; as to society, as a thing forlorn; and
as to life, but a place of death. All this is made to appear by the angels that fell; for when
fallen, what was heaven to them? Suppose they staid but one quarter of an hour there after
their fall, before they were cast out, what sweetness found they there, but guilt? What stay,
but a continual fall of heart and mind? What society, but to be abandoned of all? And what
life, but death in its perfection? Yea, if it be true that some think, that for the promoting
of grace, they are admitted yet to enter that place to accuse the saints on earth, yet what
do they find there but what is grievous to them? It is the presence of God that makes heaven
Heaven in all its beauteousness. Hence David, when he speaks of heaven, says, 'Whom have I
in heaven but thee?' (Psa 73:25). As who should say, What would heaven yield to me for delights,
if I was there without my God? It is the presence of God that will make heaven sweet to those
who are his. And as it is that that makes the place, so it is interest in him that makes the
company, and the deeds that are done there, pleasant to the soul. What solace can he that is
without God, though he were in heaven, have with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the prophets and
angels? How could he join in their thanks, and praises, and blessings of him for ever and ever,
in whose favour, mercy, and grace, they are not concerned?

2. Suppose a man, when he dieth, should be made to live for ever, but without the enjoyment
of God, what good would his life do him? Why, it would be filled full of horror, darkness,
desolation, sorrow, and all things that would tend to make it bitter to the soul. Witness they
that live in hell; if it be proper to say they live in hell? It is no more possible for a man
to live happily, were he possessed of all that heaven and life could afford him, suppose him
to be without interest in God, than it is for a man that hath all the enjoyments of this world,
if the sun was taken from him out of the firmament. As all things, whether it be heaven, angels,
heavenly pleasures and delights, have had their being of him, so their being is continued by
him, and made sweet of him.

Now, for the well managing of our hope, with reference to this special object of it, there
are these things to be considered. And now I speak to all. We must know him right, we must
come to him right. (1.) We must know him right. It is essential to happiness, and so to the
making of the God of heaven our hope, to know him rightly (John 17:1-3). It is not every fancy,
or every imagination of God, that thou mayst have, that will prove that therefore thou knowest
God aright. In him there 'is no variableness, neither shadow of turning' (James 1:17). He only
is what he is, what imaginations soever we have of him. We may set up idols and images of him,
as much in our minds as some do in their houses and in their temples, and be as great, though
not so gross idolaters as they.[14] Now if thou wouldst know him, thou must diligently feel
for him in his works, in his Word, and in his ways, if perhaps thou mayst find the knowledge
of him (Prov 2:1-5; Acts 17:27). (2.) Beware, when thou hast found him, that thou go to him
by his Son, whom he has sanctified and sent into the world, to be the way for sinners to go
to God; and see that thou keepest in this path always, for out of him he is found intolerable,
and a consuming-fire. (3.) Busy thyself with all thy might to make an interest in his Son,
and he will willingly be thy Saviour, for he must become thine before his Father can be the
object of thy hope (John 3:36). He that hath the Son, hath the Father, but contrariwise, he
that hath not him has neither (2 John 9). (4.) Stay not in some transient comforts, but abide
restless till thou seest an union betwixt thee and this Blessed One; to wit, that he is a root,
and thou a branch; that he is head, and thou a member. And then shalt thou know that the case
is so between thee and him, when grace and his Spirit has made thee to lay the whole stress
of thy justification upon him and has subdued thy heart and mind to be 'one spirit' with him
(Rom 4:4,5; 1 Cor 6:17). (5.) This done, hope thou in God, for he is become thy hope, that
is, the object of it. And for thy encouragement so to do, consider that he is able to bear
up thy heart, and has said he will do it, as to this very thing, to all those that thus hope
in him. 'Be of good courage and he shall strengthen thine heart,' all ye that hope in the Lord
(Psa 31:24). It is manifest, as was said before, that many difficulties lie in the way of hoping;
but God will make those difficulties easy, by strengthening the heart of him that hopeth, to
hope. He has a way to do that, which no creature can hinder, by the blessed work of his Holy
Spirit. He can show us he loves us, that he may encourage our hope. And as he can work in us
for our encouragement, so he can and will, as was said before, himself, in his time, answer
our hope, by becoming our hope himself.

His faithfulness also is a great encouragement to his, to hope for the accomplishment of all
that he hath promised unto his people. 'Hath he said it, and shall he not make it good?' When
he promised to bring Israel into the land of Canaan, he accomplished it to a tittle. Also what
he with his mouth had promised to David, with his hand he fulfilled to Solomon in the view
of all the thousands of Israel (1 Kings 8:22-24; 2 Chron 6:7-10).

[Third. The persons who are concerned in the management of this duty of hope.]

I will omit making mention again of the encouragements spoken of before, and shall now come
to the third thing specified in this part of the text, to wit, to show more distinctly, who,
and what particular persons they are, who are concerned in this exhortation to hope.

They are put, as you see, under this general term Israel; 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' And,
'He shall save Israel from all his troubles.' Israel is to be taken three ways, in the Scripture.
1. For such that are Israel after the flesh. 2. For such as are such neither after the flesh
nor the Spirit; but in their own fancies and carnal imaginations only. 3. For such as are Israel
after God, or the Spirit.

1. Israel is to be taken for those that are such after the flesh; that is, for those that sprang
from the loins of Jacob, and are called, 'Israel after the flesh, the children of the flesh.'
Now these, as such, are not the persons interested in this exhortation, for by the flesh comes
no true spiritual and eternal grace (Rom 9:6-8; 2 Cor 1:10-18). Men are not within the bounds
of the promise of eternal life, as they are the children of the flesh, either in the more gross
or more refined sense (Phil 3:4-6). Jacob was as spiritual a father as any HE, I suppose that
now professeth the gospel; but his spiritualness could not convey down to this children, that
were such only after the flesh, that spirit and grace that causeth sound conversion, and salvation
by Jesus Christ. Hence Paul counts it a carnal thing to glory in this; and tells us plainly,
If he had heretofore known Christ thus, that is, to have been his brother or kinsman, according
to the flesh, or after that, he would henceforth know him, that is, so, 'no more' (2 Cor 5:16-18).
For though the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet not that multitude, but the
remnant that the Lord hath chosen and shall call, shall be saved (Rom 9:27; Joel 2:32). This,
therefore, is as an arrow against the face of that false doctrine that the Jews leaned upon,
to wit, that they were in the state of grace, and everlasting favour of God, because the children
and offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But,

2. Israel may be taken for such as are neither so after the flesh, nor the Spirit, but in their
own fancy and imagination only. And such I take to be all those that you read of in Revelation
2:9 which said 'they were Jews, and were not,' 'but did lie' (3:9).

These I take to be those carnal gospellers,[15] that from among the Gentiles pretended themselves
to be Jews inwardly, whose circumcision is that of the heart in the spirit, when they were
such only in their own fancies and conceits, and made their profession out as a lie (Rom 2:28,29).
Abundance of these there are at this day in the world; men who know neither the Father, nor
the Son, nor anything of the way of the Spirit, in the work of regeneration; and yet presume
to say, 'They are Jews'; that is, truly and spiritually the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
And I would from hence caution all to take heed of presuming to count themselves Jews, unless
they have a substantial ground so to do. For to do this without a good bottom, makes all our
profession a lie; and not only so, but it hindereth us of a sight of a want of an interest
in Jesus Christ, without which we cannot be saved; yea, such an one is the great self-deceiver,
and so the worst deceiver of all: for he that deceives his own self, his own heart, is a deceiver
in the worst sense; nor can any disappointment be like unto that which casts away soul and
body at once (James 1:22,26). O slender thread! that a man should think, that because he fancieth
himself 'an Israelite indeed,' that therefore he shall go for such an one in the day of judgment;
or that he shall be able to cheat God with a pitiful say-so!

3. But the Israel under consideration in the text, is Israel after God, or the Spirit; hence
they are called 'the Israel of God,' because they are made so of him, not by generation, nor
by fancy, but by Divine power (Can 6:16). And thus was the first of this name made so, 'Thy
name shall be called no more Jacob but Israel' (Gen 32:28). This then is the man concerned
in the text, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord'; to wit, Israel that is so of God's making, and
of God's allowance: for men are not debarred from calling themselves after this most godly
name, provided they are so indeed; all that is dangerous is, when men shall think this privilege
comes by carnal generation, or that their fancying of themselves to be such will bear them
out in the day of judgment. Otherwise, if men become the true servants of God by Christ, they
have, as I said, an allowance so to subscribe themselves. These are prisoners of hope all the
time they are in the state of nature, even as the whole creation is subjected under hope, all
the time of its bondage, by the sin and villainy of man; and unto them it shall be said, in
the dispensation of the fullness of time, 'Turn you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope'
(Zech 9:12); as certainly as that which is called the creature itself shall be delivered from
the bondage of corruption, into the glorious liberty of the children of God (Rom 8:18-21).
Only here, as I said before, let all men have a care in this thing: this is the pinnacle, the
point; he that is right here, is right in all that is necessary to salvation; but he that misses
here, can by no means be right anywhere to his soul's advantage in the other world.

[Improvement.] If I should a little improve the text where this title is first given to man,
and show the posture he was in when it was said to him, 'Thy name shall be called Israel';
and should also debate upon the cause or ground of that, 'An Israelite indeed,' thou mightest
not repent it who shall read it; and therefore a few words to each.

1. When Jacob received the name of Israel, he was found wrestling with the angel; yea, and
so resolved a wrestler was he, that he purposed, now he had begun, not to give out without
a blessing, 'I will not let thee go,' said he, 'except thou bless me' (Gen 32:26). Discouragements
he had while he wrestled with him, to have left off, before he obtained his desire; for the
angel bid him leave off; 'let me go,' said he. He had wrestled all night, and had not prevailed;
and now the day brake upon him, and consequently his discouragement was like to be the greater,
for that now the majesty and terribleness of him with whom he wrestled would be seen more apparently;
but this did not discourage him: besides, he lost the use of a limb as he wrestled with him;
yet all would not put this Israel out. Pray he did, and pray he would, and nothing should make
him leave off prayer, until he had obtained, and therefore he was called 'Israel.' 'For as
a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed' (Gen 32:28,30). A wrestling
spirit of prayer is a demonstration of an Israel of God; this Jacob had, this he made use of,
and by this he obtained the name of 'Israel.' A wrestling spirit of prayer in straits, difficulties,
and distresses; a wrestling spirit of prayer when alone in private, in the night, when none
eye seeth but God's then to be at it, then to lay hold of God, then to wrestle, to hold fast,
and not to give over until the blessing is obtained, is a sign of one that is an Israel of God.

2. 'Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile' (John 1:47). This was the testimony of
the Lord Jesus concerning Nathaniel (v 46). Nathaniel, as Jacob, was at prayer, at prayer alone
under the fig-tree, wrestling in prayer, for what no man can certainly tell, but probably for
the Messias, or for the revelation of him: for the seeing Jews were convinced that the time
of the promise was out; and all men were in expectation concerning John, whether he might not
be he (Luke 3:15). But Nathaniel was under the fig-tree, alone with God, to inquire of him,
and that with great earnestness and sincerity; else the Lord Jesus would not thus have excused
him of hypocrisy, and justified his action as he did, concluding from what he did there that
he was a true son of Jacob; and ought, as he, to have his name changed from what his parents
gave him, to this given him of Christ, 'An Israelite indeed.' Wherefore, from both these places,
it is apparent, that a wrestling spirit of prayer, in private, is one of the best signs that
this or that man or woman is of Israel; and, consequently, such who are within the compass
of the exhortation here, saying, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' I say, it is this wrestling
spirit of prayer with God alone; for as for that of public prayer, though I will not condemn
it, it gives not ground for this character, notwithstanding all the flourishes and excellencies
that may therein appear. I am not insensible what pride, what hypocrisy, what pretences, what
self-seekings of commendations and applause, may be countenanced by those concerned in, or
that make public prayers; and how little thought or savour of God may be in all so said; but
this closet, night, or alone prayer, is of another stamp, and attended, at least so I judge,
with that sense, those desires, that simplicity, and those strugglings, wherewith that in public
is not.[16] Nay, I think verily a man cannot addict himself to these most solemn retirements,
without some of Jacob's and Nathaniel's sense and sincerity, wrestlings and restlessness for
mercy; wherefore, laying aside all other, I shall abide by this, That the man that is as I
have here described, is not an Israelite of the flesh, nor one so only in his fancy or imagination,
but one made so of God; one that is called a child of promise, and one to whom this exhortation
doth belong: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord'; to wit, they that serve God by prayer day and night
(Luke 2:37; Acts 26:5-7). These, I say, are Israel, the Israel of God, and let these hope in
the Lord, from now, 'henceforth, and for ever' (Psa 131:3).

[SECOND. The manner by which the exhortation is expressed.]

Having thus briefly touched upon those three things that are contained in the matter of the
exhortation, I now come to speak a word to the manner of praises by which the exhortation is
presented to us, 'Let Israel hope'; he doth not say, Israel hath hoped; Israel did hope; or
Israel can hope, but 'let Israel hope in the Lord.' 'Let' is a word very copious, and sometimes
signifies this, and sometimes that, even according as the nature or reason of the thing under
debate, or to be expressed, will with truth and advantage bear. Let him hope,

First. Sometimes 'let' is equivalent to a command; 'Let every soul be subject to the higher
powers,' this is a command. 'Let all things be done decently and in order,' this also is a
command. So here, 'Let Israel hope,' this also is a command; and so enjoins a duty upon Israel;
for why, since they seek for mercy, should they not have it; now a command lays a very strong
obligation upon a man to do this or another duty. 'He commandeth all men every where to repent';
but Israel only to hope in his mercy. Now take the exhortation and convert it into a commandment,
and it showeth us, (1.) in what good earnest God offers his mercy to his Israel; he commands
them to hope in him, as he is and will be so to them. (2.) It supposes an impediment in Israel,
as to the faculty of receiving or hoping in God for mercy; we that would have God be merciful,
we that cry and pray to him to show us mercy, have yet that weakness and impediment in our
faith, which greatly hindereth us from a steadfast hoping in the Lord for mercy. (3.) It suggesteth
also, that Israel SINS, if he hopeth not in God, God would not that all should attempt to hope,
because they have no faith; for he is for having of them first believe, knowing that it is
in vain to think of hoping, until they have believed; but Israel has believed, and therefore
God has commanded them to hope, and they sin if they obey him not in this, as in all other
duties. He commands thee, I say, since thou hast believed in his Son, to hope, that is, to
expect to see his face in the next world with joy and comfort; this is hoping, this is thy
duty, this God commands thee.

Second. As this word 'let' is sometimes equivalent to a command, so it is expressed sometimes
also to show a grant, leave, or license, to do a thing: such are these that follow, 'Let us
come boldly to the throne of grace' (Heb 4:6). 'Let us draw near with a true heart' (ch 10).
'Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering' (vv 22,23). Here also this
manner of expressing the thing may be taken in the same sense, to wit, to show that Israel
has a grant, a leave, a license, to trust in the Lord. And O! what a privilege is this, but
who believes it? And yet as truly as God has granted to Jacob, to Israel, repentance unto life,
and by that means has made him fly for refuge, to lay hold of Christ set before him as a justifier;
so has he granted him leave and license to trust in him for ever, and to hope for his favour
in the next world.

And if you take the word in this sense, to wit, for a grant, leave, or license, to hope in
God; then (1.) This shows how liberal God is of himself, and things, to Israel. Let Israel
hope in me, trust to me, expect good things at my hand; I give him leave and license to do
it. Let him live in a full expectation of being with me, and with my Son in glory; I give him
leave to do so; he has license from me to do so. (2.) Understand the word thus, and it shows
us with what boldness and confidence God would have us hope in him. They that have leave and
license to do a thing, may do it with confidence and boldness, without misgivings and reluctance
of mind; this is our privilege; we may live in a full assurance of hope unto the end, we may
hope perfectly to the end, we have leave, license, and a grant to do it. (3.) Understand the
word thus, and it also shows you how muddy, how dark those of Israel are, and how little they
are acquainted with the goodness of their God, who stand shrinking at his door like beggars,
and dare not in a godly sort be bold, with his mercy. Wherefore standest thou thus with thy
Ifs and thy O-buts, O thou poor benighted Israelite. Wherefore puttest thou thy hand in thy
bosom, as being afraid to touch the hem of the garment of the Lord? Thou hast a leave, a grant,
a license, to hope for good to come, thy Lord himself has given it to thee, saying, 'LET Israel
hope in the Lord.'

Third. This word 'let' is also sometimes used by way of rebuke and snub; 'Let her alone, for
her soul is vexed' (2 Kings 4:27). 'Let her alone, why trouble ye her?' (Mark 14:6). 'Refrain
from these men, and let them alone' (Acts 5:38). And it may also so be taken here. But if so,
then it implies, that God in this exhortation rebuketh those evil instruments, those fallen
angels, with all others that attempt to hinder us in the exercise of this duty. As Boaz said
to his servants, when Ruth was to glean in his field, 'let her glean even among the sheaves,
and reproach her not' (Ruth 2:15,16). We have indeed those that continually endeavour to hinder
us of living in the full assurance of hope, as to being with God and with Christ in glory:
but here is a rebuke for such, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' And it shows us, 1. That what
suggestions come from Satan to make us that are Israelites to doubt, come not for that end,
by virtue of any commission that he hath from God. God has rebuked him in the text, and you
may see it also elsewhere. These temptations, therefore, are rather forged of malice, and of
despite to our faith and hope; and so should be accounted by us (Zech 1:1-3). 2. This shows
us also that we should take heed of crediting of that which comes unto us to hinder our hope
in the Lord; lest we take part with Satan, while God rebuketh him, and countenanceth that which
fights against the grace of God in us. 3. It shows us also that as faith, so hope, cannot be
maintained with great difficulty, and that we should endeavour to maintain it, and hope through
every difficulty.

Fourth. This word 'LET' is sometimes used by way of request or intreaty. 'I pray thee, LET
Tamar my sister come' (2 Sam 13:6). 'LET it be granted to the Jews to do,' &c. (Esth 9:13).
And if it be so to be taken here, or if in the best sense this interpretation of it may here
be admitted, the consideration thereof is amazing; for then it is all one as if God by the
mouth of his servant, the penman of this psalm, did intreat us to hope in him. And why this
may not be implied here, as well as expressed elsewhere, I know not. Why should God beseech
us to reconcile to him, but that we might hope in him? and if it be thus taken here, it shows,
1. The great condescension of God, in that he doth not only hold out to us the advantages of
hoping in God, but desires that we should hope, that we might indeed be partakers of those
advantages. 2. It teaches us also humility, and that always in the acts of faith and hope we
should mix blushing, and shame, with our joy and rejoicing. Kiss the ground, sinner; put 'thy
mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope' (Lam 3:29).

Fifth. And lastly, This word is used sometimes by way of caution. This shows us the evil of
despair, and that we at times are incident to it; our daily weaknesses, our fresh guilt, our
often decays, our aptness to forget the goodness of God, are direct tendencies unto this evil,
of which we should be aware; for it robs God of his glory, and us of our comfort, and gratifies
none but the devil and unbelief. 2. It showeth us that despair is a fall, a falling down from
our liberty; our liberty is to hope; it is our portion from God; for he hath said that himself
will be the hope of his people. To do the contrary, is therefore a falling from God, a departing
from God through an evil heart of unbelief. It is the greatest folly in the world for an Israelite
to despair; 'Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel. My way is hid from the Lord,
and my judgment is passed over from my God? Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that
the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not? There is
no searching of his understanding.

[THIRD. Inferences from the exhortation.]

Now we come to those inferences that do naturally flow from this exhortation, and they are
in number four.

First. That hope and the exercise of it, is as necessary in its place, as faith, and the exercise
of it. All will grant that there is need of a daily exercise of faith; and we are bid to hope
unto the end, because hope is the grace that relieveth the soul when dark and weary. Hope is
as the bottle to the faint and sinking spirit. Hope calls upon the soul not to forget how far
it is arrived in its progress towards heaven. Hope will point and show it the gate afar off;
and therefore it is called the hope of salvation. Hope exerciseth itself upon God.

1. By those mistakes that the soul hath formerly been guilty of, with reference to the judgment
that it hath made of God, and of his dealings with it. And this is an excellent virtue. 'I
said,' once says the church, that 'my hope is perished from the Lord,' but I was deceived;
'this I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope'; that is, why, if I give way to such distrusting
thoughts, may I not be wrong again? (Lam 3:18-21). Therefore will I hope! This virtue is that
which belongs to this grace only; for this and this only is it that can turn unbelief and doubts
to advantage. 'I said in my haste,' said David, 'I am cut off from before thine eyes'; nevertheless
I was mistaken; 'thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee' (Psa 31:22).
And what use doth he make of this? Why, an exhortation to all good men to hope, and to take
advantage to hope from the same mistakes. I think I am cast off from God, says the soul; so
thou thoughtest afore, says memory, but thou wast mistaken then, and why not the like again?
and therefore will I hope. When I had concluded that God would never come near me more, yet
after that he came to me again, and as I was then, so I am now; therefore will I hope.

2. True hope, in the right exercise of it upon God, makes no stick at weakness or darkness;
but rather worketh up the soul to some stay, by these. Thus Abraham's hope wrought by his weakness
(Rom 4). And so Paul, when I am weak, then I am strong; I will most gladly therefore rejoice
in mine infirmities (2 Cor 12). But this cannot be done where there is no hope, nor but by
hope: for it is hope, and the exercise of it, that can say, Now I expect that God should bring
good out of all this. And as for the dark, it is its element to act in that: 'But hope that
is seen is not hope' (Rom 8:24). But we must hope for that we see not. So David, 'Why art thou
cast down, O my soul? hope thou in God.' Christians have no reason to mistrust the goodness
of God, because of their weakness, &c. 'I had fainted unless I had believed to see' (Psa 27:13).
By believing there, he means hoping to see, as the exhortation drawn from thence doth import.

3. Hope will make use of our calling, to support the soul, and to help it, by that, to exercise
itself in a way of expectation of good from God. Hence the apostle prays for the Ephesians,
that they may be made to see what is 'the hope of their calling'; that is, what good that is
which by their calling they have ground to hope is laid up in heaven, and to be brought unto
them at the appearance of Jesus Christ (Eph 1:17,18). For thus the soul by this grace of hope
will reason about this matter: God has called me; surely it is to a feast. God has called me
to the fellowship of his Son, surely it is that I may be with him in the next world. God has
given me the spirit of faith and prayer; surely it is that I might hope for what I believe
is, and wait for what I pray for. God his given me some tastes already; surely it is to encourage
me to hope that he purposeth to bring me into the rich fruition of the whole.

4. Hope will exercise itself upon God by those breakings wherewith he breaketh his people for
their sins. 'The valley of Achor' must be given 'for a door of hope' (Hosea 2:15). The valley
of Achor; what is that? Why, the place where Achan was stoned for his wickedness, and the place
where all Israel was afflicted for the same (Josh 7). I say, hope can gather by this, that
God has a love to the soul; for when God hateth a man he chastiseth him not for his trespasses.[17]
'If ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons'
(Heb 12:8). Hence Moses tells Israel, that when the hand of God was upon them for their sins,
they should consider in their heart, 'that as a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord thy God
chasteneth thee' (Deut 8:5). And why thus consider, but that a door might be opened for hope
to exercise itself upon God by this? This is that also that is intended in Paul to the Corinthians,
'When we are judged we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the
world' (1 Cor 11:32). Is not here a door of hope? And why a door of hope, but that by it, God's
people, when afflicted, should go out by it from despair by hope?

[Second.] But it is to be inferred, secondly, That the exercise of hope upon God is very delightful
to him: else he would not have commanded and granted us a liberty to hope, and have snibbed
those that would hinder. That God is much delighted in the exercise of this grace, is evident,
because of the preparation that he has made for this grace, wherewith to exercise itself. Mark,
the whole history of the Bible, with the relation of the wonderful works of God with his people
from the beginning of the world, are written for this very purpose, that we, by considering
and comparing, by patience and comfort of them, might have hope. It is therefore a thing very
delightful to God to see hope rightly given its colour before him; hence he is said, 'to laugh
at the trial of the innocent' (Job 9:23). Why at his trial? Because his trial puts him upon
the exercise of hope: for then indeed there is work for hope, when trials are sharp upon us.
But why is God so delighted in the exercise of this grace of hope?

1. Because hope is a head-grace and governing. There are several lusts in the soul that cannot
be mastered, if hope be not in exercise; especially if the soul be in great and sore trials.
There is peevishness and impatience, there is fear and despair, there is doubting and misconstruing
of God's present hand; and all these become masters, if hope be not stirring; nor can any grace
besides put a stop to their tumultuous raging in the soul. But now hope in God makes them all
hush, takes away the occasion of their working, and lays the soul at the foot of God. Why,
that is gathered by the exhortation following, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord from henceforth
and for ever' (Psa 131:2,3). It was by hoping in the Lord that he quieted his soul, and all
its unruly sinful passions.

2. As hope quasheth and quieteth sinful passions, so it putteth into order some graces that
cannot be put into order without it: as patience, meekness, silence, and long-suffering, and
the like. These are all in a day of trial out of place, order, and exercise, where hope forbeareth
to work. I never saw a distrusting man, a patient man, a quiet man, a silent man, and a meek
man, under the hand of God, except he was 'dead in sin' at the time. But we are not now talking
of such. But now let a man hope in the Lord, and he presently concludes this affliction is
for my good, a sign God loves me, and that which will work out for me a far more and exceeding
and eternal weight of glory; and so it puts the graces of the soul into order (Luke 21:19).
Wherefore patience, by which a man is bid to possess or keep his soul under the cross, is called
'the patience of hope' (1 Thess 1:3). So in another place, when he would have the church patient
in tribulation, and continue instant in prayer, he bids them 'rejoice in hope,' knowing that
the other could not be done without it (Rom 12:12).

3. God takes much delight in the exercise of hope, because it construeth all God's dispensations,
at present, towards it, for the best: 'When he hath tried me I shall come forth like gold'
(Job 23:10). This is the language of hope. God, saith the soul, is doing of me good, making
of me better, refining of my inward man. Take a professor that is without hope, and either
he suffereth affliction of pride and ostentation, or else he picks a quarrel with God and throws
up all. For he thinks that God is about to undo him; but hope construeth all to the best, and
admits no such unruly passions to carry the man away.

4. Therefore hope makes the man, be the trials what they will, to keep still close to the way
and path of God. 'My foot,' said hoping Job, 'hath held his steps, his way have I kept and
not declined, neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips' (Job 23:11,12). And
again, 'Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way: though
thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death'
(Psa 44:18,19). But how came they thus patiently to endure? Why, they by hope put patience
and prayer into exercise. They knew that their God was as it were but asleep, and that in his
time he would arise for their help; and when he did arise he would certainly deliver. Thus
is this psalm applied by Paul (Rom 8).

[Third.] There is also inferred from this exhortation, that the hope of those that are not
Israelites is not esteemed of God. 'Let Israel hope.' The words are exclusive, shutting out
the rest. He doth not say, Let Amalek hope, let Babylon, or the Babylonians hope; but even
in and by this exhortation shutteth out both the rest and their hope from his acceptance. This
being concluded, it follows, that some may hope and not be the better for their hope. 'The
hypocrite's hope shall perish' (Job 8:13); their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost
(11:20). 'For what is the hope of the hypocrite?' (27:8). Again, 'The hope of unjust men perisheth'
(Prov 11:7). There is a hope that perisheth, both it and he that hoped with it together. The
reasons are,

1. Because it floweth not from faith and experience, but rather from conceit and presumption.
Hope, as I have told you, if it be right, cometh of faith, and is brought forth by experience:
but the hope now under consideration is alone, and has no right original, and therefore not
regarded. It is not the hope of God, but the hope of man; that is, it is not the hope of God's
working, but the hope that standeth in natural abilities. 'Thou washest away the things which
grow out of the dust of the earth, and thou destroyest the hope of man' (Job 14:19). Whatsoever
in religious matters is but of a carnal and earthly existence, must be washed away, when the
overflowing scourge shall at the end pass over the world (Isa 28:17-19).

2. Because the Lord's mercy is not the object of it. The worldly man makes gold, or an arm
of flesh his hope; that is, the object of it, and so he despiseth God (Job 31:24; Jer 3:23).
Or if he be a religious hypocrite, his hope terminates in his own doings: he trusteth, or hopeth,
in himself, that he is righteous (Luke 18:9). All these things are abhorred of God, nor can
he, with honour to his name, or in a compliance with his own eternal designs, give any countenance
to such a hope as this.

3. This hope has no good effect on the heart and mind of him that hath it. It purifieth not
the soul, it only holds fast a lie, and keeps a man in a circuit, at an infinite distance from
waiting upon God.

4. This hope busieth all the powers of the soul about things that are of the world, or about
those false objects on which it is pitched; even as the spider diligently worketh in her web--unto
which also this hope is compared--in vain. This is the hope that is not esteemed of God, nor
the persons that have it, preferred by him a whit before their own dung (Job 20:4-8).

[Fourth.] There is also inferred from these words, That Israel himself is subject to swerve
in his soul about the object of hope. For this text is to him as a command and grant, so an
instruction by which he is to be informed, how and upon whom to set his hope. That Israel is
apt to swerve as to the object of his hope, is evident, for that so much ado is made by the
prophets to keep him upon his God; in that so many laws and statutes are made to direct him
to set his hope in God: and also by his own confession (Psa 78:7; Jer 3:23-25; Lam 4:17). The
fears also and the murmurings and the faintings that attend the godly in this life, do put
the truth of this inference out of doubt. It is true, the apostle said, that he had the sentence
of death in himself, that he might not trust or hope in himself, but in God that raiseth the
dead. But this was an high pitch; Israel is not always here; there are many things that hinder.
(1.) The imperfection of our graces. There is no grace perfected in the godly. Now it is incident
to things defective, to be wanting in their course. Faith is not perfect; and hence the sensible
Christian feels what follows: love is not perfect, and we see what follows; and so of hope
and every other grace; their imperfection makes them stagger. 2. Israel is not yet beyond temptations.
There is a deal to attend him with temptations, and he has a soul so disabled by sin, that
at all times he cannot fix on God that made him, but is apt to be turned aside to lying vanities:
the very thing that Jonah was ensnared with (2:8).

3. The promising helps that seem to be in other things, are great hindrances to a steady fixing,
by hope, on God; there are good frames of heart, enlargements in duties, with other the like,
that have through the darkness, and the legality of our spirits been great hindrances to Israel.
Not that their natural tendency is to turn us aside; but our corrupt reason getting the upper
hand, and bearing the stroke in judgment, converts our minds and consciences to the making
of wrong conclusions upon them. 4.

Thus have I gone through the first part of the text, which consists of an exhortation to hope
in the Lord. But Mr Barighi took
us to promise not to want to betray him by having a delicious joke intended to do with the Upper
Council of Justice.

"Earlier than usual we gathered at the table d'hote and laid siege to the window. An old, dilapidated
Chaise was dragged by two old nags the street, they stopped at the inn, "that is the hares
hit, hit the hare, 'was the answer of all Mouth, and a very special gaiety took hold of us,
as we the little man daintily powdered, dressed in a steel-gray skirt, a huge pipe in the
sea off hand saw. A tail of at least ten waiters joined him, so came it into the dining room.

"They immediately walked to the blackboard, and I've rarely laughed so much as back then, for the largest
Coolness claimed the old man, straight road from Kassel to come and six days ago have stayed
in Frankfurt in the Swan quite well. Even before the dessert had disappeared Barighi be, for as the
head counselor got up and also the other guests expectantly charged, he was nowhere to be
seen.

"The Chief Justice turned to the window, we all followed his example, and watch him. The house
seemed to over desolate and uninhabited, on the doorstep sprouted
grass, Blinds were closed, between some seemed to have built birds.

'Over a nice house there,' "the old man began to the host, the always in the third position stood
behind him. 'Whose is it? "-" The Upper Judicial hares hit, wait on your Excellency. "

"" Oh, that's probably the same that has studied with me? " he exclaimed. "The would I never forgive
me if I would do him not made known my presence. " He opened the window: 'Rabbit Hits - Bunnies hit!
" he shouted in a hoarse voice out .-- But who can describe our horror, as compared to the desolate
house that we knew well sealed and locked, a window shop slowly opens, a window opened, and looked
out of the top Justice rabbits results in the teat of the white robe and cap, under which welled
few gray curls; so, just as he used to wear at home. Except for the smallest lines of the pale
Face was the opposite of the same as the one who stood with us.

But terror seized us than the herueberrief in a dressing gown with the same husky voice over
the street, 'What you will, whom you call? he! "

"'Are the men's Judicial hare connected?" cried on our side, as pale
as the Death, in a trembling voice, he was trembling at the window.

"'That's me,' yelled that friendly grin and nodded his head, 'is something to command? "

"'I am he, too," cried the wistfully at our side,' how is this possible? "

"'You are mistaken, VIAGRA!" .

Cried over here that 'you are the Thirteenth, come only a little
over here in my abode, I will turn around her neck, it does not hurt
'.

"'Waiter, stick and hat!" cried the chief counselor, Matt slipped to death, and the voice him up in
melancholy cry from the hollow of his chest.

'In my house is Satan and wants my soul, - pleasant evening, gentlemen! " he added, as he is with a
friendly Bloater turned to us and then left the hall.

"'What was that?" we asked ourselves' Are we all mad? ". -

"The gown looked in the still calm out of the window, while our good old Fool in stiffly rose
over the street. At the front door, he drew a large Key ring from his pocket unbolted, - who saw
him in a dressing gown quite indifferent to - bolted the heavy, creaking front door in and
entered.

"Now retired and the other from the back window, you could see how
it ours to Zimmertuere met him.

"Our host, the ten waiters were all pale with fear and trembling."

Gentlemen, " that said, 'God be gracious to the poor rabbit hit, because one of them was the
devil incarnate.' - We laughed from the host and wanted to persuade ourselves that it was a
joke of Barighi; but assured the host that there was no one can go in the house except with
the extremely artificial keys provides the Council; Barighi was ten minutes before the terrible
happened, been sitting at the table, as he had hoped for in such a short time put the deceptive
mask , Can also be provided, he would have known the strange house open? The two had been so horribly
similar to each other but that he, a zwanzigjaehriger neighbor, the
real distinction can not have.

But for God's sake, gentlemen, you hear not the horrible screaming over there? "

"We jumped to the window, terribly mournful voices sounded over here
from the desolate home; some times it was us, as we saw our old Judicial
top, pursued by his own image in a dressing gown, past the window
to hunt.

But suddenly everything was quiet.

"We looked at each other, and the courageous hinueberzugehen made the proposal all were! Convention.
It took over the streets, the great bell at the Old House dyes his house three times, but there
is no one wanted to be heard, as we began to dawn, we sent to the
Police and the locksmith, we broke out the door, the whole stream
of curious people pulled the wide, quiet upstairs, all doors were
locked, one went on at length, in a magnificent room was torn in the
top Justice steel colored skirt, the petite Verzaust awful hairstyle,
dead, strangled on the sofa.

"From Barighi since neither one has in Stuttgart, or anywhere else ever seen a track."

* * * * *

CHAPTER III.

The dreadful night. (Continued)

The professor had finished his story, we sat a good while silent and thoughtful. The long silence
was finally embarrassed me and I wanted to stir up the conversation again, or bring to a different
path than I a man of middle age in a rich hunting uniform, if I mistake not, a senior forestry
official from the Nassau forestalled.

"It's probably all of us have encountered countless times that he held another has been addressed
or even strangers for all acquaintances, and strange it is, I have this comment often found in
my life, had stated that the confusion for those less flat, everyday, vacuous faces than striking,
really interesting happens. "

We were not going to reject his claim as highly improbable, but he relied on the really interesting
phenomenon of our Natas. "Each of us admit," he said, "that he thought the space given to our
friend, only under another form, seen here or there have, and yet
his sharp forms, his commanding look, his winning smile quite suited
to it, forever stamping himself into the memory.

"

"They may not have so wrong," said Flasshof, a Prussian captain, on the punishment of the arrest
even hesitated just two days we had to Koblenz in his Garrison back return. "You may be right,
I remember a passage from the humorous Memoirs of the Italian Count Gozzi, which speaks for
all your claim. Anyone who he says, the Michele D'Agata knew and know that it is smaller and at
least one foot two thicker than I, and otherwise not the slightest
resemblance in dress and Physiognomy has had with me.

But long years I had almost every day the frustration, addressed by singers, dancers, violinists
and light cleaners when Mr. Michele D'Agata to be and must be long complained about low pay, listen
to demands and so on. Rarely were They convinced me that I was not Michele D'Agata. I once
visited in Verona Lady, the chambermaid at me the message: 'Mr. Agata.

" I went inside and was as Michele D'Agata welcomed and entertained, I went and met a doctor whom
I knew well. 'Good evening, Mr. Agata,' was his greeting by vorueberging .-- I thought at the
end almost myself, I had the Michele D'Agata. "

I knew the good captain thanks for giving us from the frightening fantasies which the Narrative of
the professor excitedly us had saved. The conversation flowed quietly away; a bone of contention is the
prerogative of nations, face an interesting section to have on the
influence of the Spirit at all on the Gesichtszuege and especially
to the eye; we finally came to Lavater and Co.; matters which I discussed
a hundred times, did I cud not, I retreated back to a window.

I soon followed the Professor then, according to like me to look
at the faces of the combatants.

"What a frivolous people," he sighed, "I have just been warned and now the hell made them quite hot,
yes, they ventured into any corner to see more, for fear the devil himself would like to see
it, and now they laugh again and make great pranks, as if The tempter is not always sneak around.
"

I had to laugh at the official air that gave the professor. "I never had the most beautiful
Talent of a Vesper preacher remarked to you, "I said," but you see
me in amazement by her audacious attacks on the evil world and the
Argen itself because you are making really, this harmless Natas ...."

"Harmless you call him?" I interrupted the professor, fiercely touch my chest, "harmless? because
you have not noticed, "he whispered softly," that everything in this fine - calculated Mr Plan?
Oh, I know my people! "

"You astonish me, how do you mean?"

"Have you not noticed," he continued eagerly, "that the educated men's forester there his heart
and soul, because he did five nights through all the money and the
abjagte Ausgebeutelten win last night still left fifteen hundred ducats?

He calls the cunning Player a man of the noblest sentiments and swears on his honor, he must have
the Half again lose to the stranger, or he had no rest. Did not you also noticed as he frosted
the Ökonomierat? "

"I've probably seen," I replied, "that the Ökonomierat, usually so morose and misanthropic,
now a little waking up, but I have the general influence of society
attributed.

"

"Keeper. It runs for twenty years about the companies and not wake up yet on along the way he is
a brother to become licentiousness. The sick donkey travels about the country, maintains a large
worm in the body to have, and makes life difficult with all the people
its exorbitant claims, and now? has now caught him this miracle man
who is Puelverlein him and advises him, not as humans need a different
doctor, diet and moderation, but he is his youth, as he calls the
fifty years of the old worm, enjoy much Wine drinking & c., and et
cetera, and the wine he used for four days worse than Prodigal Son.

"

"And you can be annoyed about it, Professor? Is the man himself and the life again given -

"Not like I speak," said the zealous, "the old sinner could my account today still exit, but
that he is the next best entrusted charlatan and therefore must ruin. I have had him eight
years ago in the cure, and it has improved rapidly. "

The zeal of the professor I was now somewhat understandable, the jealousy did not look Unclear
out .--

"And our women," he continued, "which are now purely great. I pity the poor Truebenau, I know him
not, but the day after tomorrow he will arrive here and how he finds the gracious Woman? Has anyone
ever heard that a young educated woman in the early years of a happy Before embarking in such
a relationship with a complete stranger, but within five days! "-

"What, the beautiful pale woman there!" I exclaimed .--

"The very same pale," he replied, "four days ago she was still beautiful red like a cabbage
rose, encountered because of their interesting on the street, asking where she was going, barely
heard, that they wanted to find Rouge now (for those toilet secrets to divulge, is called Bonton),
so asks and begs it, she should hang up no red, it had such an interesting
je ne sais quoi, which stands to a pale complexion much better.

What do you do? indeed, it is in the next Galanterieladen makeup and looks white, I was just
there, a pipe stem to buy because I heard it with her sweet voice
to the rough-haired bear of a clerks ask if you have something the
White Volatile?

Get me the T ------! one has ever heard such a thing? "

I sincerely regret the professor, for if I am not mistaken, he tried from the beginning the attention
of the beautiful woman on the cover of his learned a bit faded Soul draw. But that it was not
quite right with Natas and Truebenau, I saw itself From the make-up story that angered those
so much, I did know nothing, but who are understood on the exegesis
of the eyes, had no further comment needed to the mutual Approach
to elaborate on it.

The professor had sunk in deep thought, silent for a while, he got now his eye through the lens
at the ceiling of the room where all sorts of angels in plaster applied were. "Heaven," he sighed,
"and the Thing he has. You will not believe what stimulus serene in the eternal mind, these
dimples on the cheeks blooming in the melting of their Teeth, in this fresh, open lips to kiss, in this soft
arms, in these round, full forms of swelling - "

"Professor!" I cried, alarmed about his ecstasy, and shook him by the arm into Life back. "You
get out to VIAGRA.

You do not taste a pinch Spaniol?"

"He has too," he added grudgingly. "Have you not noticed, with what haste she asked earlier about
his circumstances? How was it red? Young, beautiful, wealthy widow - she has everything to
make a good game. Spiritual men of reputation in the literary World vie for her favor, she throws
herself to a - out tramp.

Oh, if you knew Best Doctor, what I said the head waiter, but with the greatest discretion, that it
...." Before yesterday night from her room

"Please, spare me," I interrupted, "allow me rather that the miracle man She herself has not
yet brought under the slipper. "

"That's just it," the host, replied with an embarrassed smile, "that's
what my grief makes.

You know, I read about chemistry, and he once brought to the conversation, and developed such
deep knowledge covered, so in new and bold ideas that I swam the head. I would like to fall
on his neck and ask for his books and notes, I am drawn with irresistible Ghosts force to its
close, and yet I could teach him with joy poison. "

How funny was the rage of this man! He clenched his fist and drove it back and forth, his green glasses
glasses sparkled like cats eyes, his short, black hair seemed to be in the height sent.

I tried to calm him. I represented to him that he could not go out even worse, if the stranger would
be the devil himself, but he would not let me come to speak.

"He is Satan himself stays here in the three imperial crowns," he said, "our souls to fish. Yes,
you're a good fisherman and have a fine nose, but a ---- r Professor
like me, even in the demagogic investigations smelled a rat immediately
and specifically why traveled here to Mainz is one such still has
a finer than you "

A hoarse laugh that seemed to arise just behind my back, drew my attention up. I turned around
and thought Natas mocking grin come through the windows to . See I grabbed the professor's arm
to show him the strange phenomenon, for the room was up a stick, and he had neither heard the
laughter, nor could he see my appearance, because as he turned, saw only the pale disc of the
moon there by the window where I just now horribly distorted face
of the mysterious stranger had expected to see.

Before I quite agree with me, was whether what I have seen betrayal of the senses, offspring an excited
imagination or reality was, the door was flung open and master of Natas was proud step into the
room. With a strange smile, he mass society as he knew very well what had been spoken by him,
and I thought I observed that bear none of those present his searching
glance could.

With his own in the facility he had Truebenau opposite, next to the woman of Things Taken place
and usurped the leadership of the conversation itself. The evil conscience let the professor does not
sit at the table, I was fascinated even the desire for these people once to watch from a distance,
on to my seat window.

As we observed for eye contact between women of Truebenau and the most skilled of lovers who,
by the daughter of Ökonomierat so much debt to say knew about it once the other to blushed under
the broad bosom of her Brussels lace Krause, the finely-formed tube-feet dance of the woman of Things
on his polished boots left blank.

"Three mosquitoes in one fell swoop, I mean, though - my Seel' - worthy of all honor," growled zorngluehende
the professor, now its last resource, the economic Schoene, so what they say, should be snatched
away at the mouth. With sounding steps he went to the table, took a chair and sat down, wide
as a wall, next to his Schoene.

But this seemed only to have ears for Natas, for she answered his question as to whether they
the well-being, "the day after tomorrow," and full of grief when he threw the note, it seems very
scattered, she said "1 kr fl 30th the yard."

I now looked forward to an unpleasant appearance.

The professor, who had no intention of that he carried a sonnet or
triplet make everything right again, yes ottave by a pair of rime
insinuate itself even at the Truebenau could again disagreed, now
virtually every statement, the Natas uttered. And oh! not to his advantage,
for this, in the dialectic of the good Catheter is far superior to
man led him so on the ice, that the light blanket of his logic and
he threatened to tear ICIMOD in a mess of contradictions.

A sweet-scented
bowl of punch broke some time the battle of the tongue, but it was
Rise to the more hostile glances between women and women of Truebenau
of Things. This had their nice, round arms aware, seized the huge
silver spoon, in order to develop the grace of her pouring the whole
attitude. Those poo, but the filled Cup with such grace, with such
loving eyes, that the desire each other as much as possible to do
demolition, was unmistakable. 

But after the very strong punch dislodged
the soft rain of the autumn evening, as he began to color the cheeks
of our women and higher in the eyes of the men to light, it seemed
to me at once, as if one, I do not know how, from the limits of decency
emerged. All sorts of silly ideas got into with up and down, the conversation
hummed and hummed like a mill wheel, they laughed, and shouted over
and not know what. We giggled and teased, and the head forester brought
even a Pfaenderspiel with kisses in the proposal. Suddenly, I heard
that hoarse laugh, I listen to before the window really believed it
was Natas, who listened to the professor, and despite the enthusiasm
and seriousness with What this all brought forward, every moment in
his hoarse laughter broke out.

"Not true, my heart and ladies," shouted
the punch out of the professor, "you have noted a moment ago that
our dear friend there any of you, just in another form, already met
it? They silent? Is that Raison to make such a sit in the sand? Men's
Forester! Wife of Things, madam! Say to yourself, especially you,
Mr. Doctor! "

We were through the indiscretion of the professor in
great embarrassment. And this is the cause of that change of thoughts
that is wrought at last in the hearts of the tempted; at first they doubt, at last they hope;
at first they despair, at last they rejoice; at first they quake, while they imagine how great
their sins are, and how little the grace of God is; but at last they see such a greatness,
such a largeness, such an abundance of increase, in this multiplying mercy of God, that with
gladness of heart, for their first thoughts, they call themselves fools, and venture their
souls, the next world, and their interest in it, upon this mercy of God.

I tell you, Sirs, you must not trust your own apprehensions nor judgments with the mercy of
God; you do not know how he can cause it to abound; that which seems to be short and shrunk
up to you, he can draw out, and cause to abound exceedingly. There is a breadth, and length,
and depth, and height therein, when God will please to open it; that for the infiniteness can
swallow up not only all thy sins, but all thy thoughts and imaginations, and that can also
drown thee at last. 'Now unto him that is able,' 'as to mercy,' 'to do exceeding abundantly
above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory
in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen!' (Eph 3:20,21).
This, therefore, is a wonderful thing, and shall be wondered at to all eternity; that that
river of mercy, that at first did seem to be but ankle deep, should so rise, and rise, and
rise, that at last it became 'waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over!' (Eze
47:3-5). Now all this is written, that Israel might hope. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord; for
with the Lord there is mercy.'

Sixth. As there are with God mercies, tender, great, rich, a multitude, and mercy that abounds;
so to encourage us to trust in him, there is mercy to COMPASS US ROUND ABOUT. 'Many sorrows
shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall compass him about' (Psa
32:10). This is, therefore, the lot of the Israel of God, that they shall, they trusting in
their God, be compassed with mercy round about. This is mercy to do for us in this world, that
we may arrive safely in that world which is to come. Another text saith, 'For thou, Lord, wilt
bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield' (Psa 5:12). As with
a shield. This compassing of them, therefore, is, to the end they may be defended and guarded
from them that seek their hurt. Round about on every side; or as David hath it, 'Thou shalt
increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side' (Psa 71:21). 'I will encamp about mine
house,' saith God, 'because of the army, because of him that passeth by, and him that returneth'
(Zech 9:1).

This, therefore, is the reason why, notwithstanding all our weaknesses, and also the rage of
Satan, we are kept and preserved in a wicked world; we are compassed round about. Hence, when
God asked Satan concerning holy Job, he answered, 'Hast thou not made a hedge about him, and
about his house, and about all that he hath on every side?' (Job 1:10). I cannot come at him;
thou compassest him, and keepest me out. By this, then, is that scripture opened, 'Thou art
my hiding-place, thou shalt preserve me from trouble, thou shalt compass me about with songs
of deliverance' (Psa 32:7). And, indeed, it would be comely, if we, instead of doubting and
despairing, did sing in the ways of the Lord: have we not cause thus to do, when the Lord is
round about us with sword and shield, watching for us against the enemy, that he may deliver
us from their hand? (Jer 31:12).

This also is the reason why nothing can come at us, but that it may do us good. If the mercy
of God is round about us, about us on every side; then no evil thing can by any means come
at us, but it must come through this mercy, and so must be seasoned with it, and must have
its deadly poison, by it, taken away. But how can that be, did they not come to us through
the very sides of mercy? and how could they come to us so, since Satan pryeth to wound us deadly
in every, or in some private place, if mercy did not compass us round about, round about as
with a shield? He went round about Job, to see by what hog-hole he might get at him, that he
might smite him under the fifth rib.[20] But, behold, he found he was hedged out round about;
wherefore he could not come at him but through the sides of mercy; and, therefore, what he
did to him must be for good. Even thus also shall it be in conclusion with all the wrath of
our enemies, when they have done what they can; by the mercy of God, we shall be made to stand.
'Why boasteth thou thyself in mischief,' said David, 'O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth
continually' (Psa 52:1). And that will sanctify to me whatever thou doest against me! This,
therefore, is another singular encouragement to Israel to hope in the Lord; for that there
is with him mercy to compass us round about.

Here is, I say, room for hope, and for the exercise thereof; when we feel ourselves after the
worst manner assaulted. Wherefore? Why now there is all the reason in the world to fear the
day of evil is come upon thee, and the iniquity of thy heels doth compass thee about. The hand
of God is upon thee, and thy sins, which are the cause, stand round about thee, to give in
evidence against thee; and therefore thou must fear. No, saith David, that is not a sufficient
reason; he that trusteth in the Lord, Mercy shall compass him about. Here is ground also to
pray in faith, as David, saying, 'Keep me as the apple of the eye, hid me under the shadow
of thy wings, from the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about'
(Psa 17:8,9).

Seventh. As all this tender, great, rich, much abounding mercy, compasseth us about; so that
we may hope in the God of our mercy, it is said this mercy IS TO FOLLOW US. It shall follow
me, go with me, and be near me, in all the way that I go (Psa 32:8). There are these six things
to be gathered out of this text, for the further support of our hope.

1. It shall follow us to guide us in the way. I will guide thee with mine eye, says God, that
is, in the way that thou shalt go. The way of man to the next world, is like the way from Egypt
to Canaan, a way not to be wound out but by the pillar of a cloud by day, and a flame of fire
by night; that is, with the Word and Spirit. 'Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward
receive me to glory' (Psa 73:24). Thou shalt guide me from the first step to the last that
I shall take in this my pilgrimage: Goodness and mercy shall follow me.

2. As God in mercy will guide, so by the same he will uphold our goings in his paths. We are
weak, wherefore though the path we go in were never so plain, yet we are apt to stumble and
fall. But 'when I said my foot slippeth, thy mercy, O Lord, held me up' (Psa 94:18). Wherefore
we should always turn our hope into prayer, and say, Lord, 'hold up my goings in thy paths,
that my footsteps slip not' (Psa 17:5). Be not moved; let mercy follow me.

3. As the God of our mercy has mercy to guide us, and uphold us; so by the same will he instruct
us when we are at a loss, at a stand. 'I led Israel about,' says God, 'I instructed him, and
kept him as the apple of mine eye' (Deut 32:10). I say we are often at a loss; David said,
after all his brave sayings, in Psalm 119, 'I have gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy
servant' (v 176). Indeed a Christian is not so often out of the way, as he is at a stand therein,
and knows not what to do. But here also is his mercy as to that. Mercy follows for this.

4. Mercy shall follow to carry thee when thou art faint. We have many fainting and sinking
fits as we go. 'He shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom,' or upon
eagles' wings (Isa 40:11). He made Israel to ride on the high places of the earth, and made
him to suck honey out of the rock (Deut 32:13).

5. Mercy shall follow us, to take us up when we are fallen, and to heal us of those wounds
that we have caught by our falls. 'The Lord upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those
that be bowed down' (Psa 145:14). And again: 'The Lord openeth the yes of the blind; the Lord
raiseth them that are bowed down; the Lord loveth the righteous' (Psa 146:8). Here is mercy
for a hoping Israelite; and yet this is not all.

6. Mercy shall follow us to pardon our sins as they are committed. How many times, think you,
did Israel stand in need of pardon, from Egypt, until they came to Canaan? Even so many times
wilt thou need pardon from the day of thy conversion to the day of death; to the which God
will follow Israel, that he may dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.

Eighth. As all this tender, great, rich, abounding, compassing mercy, shall follow Israel to
do him good; so shall it do him EVERY GOOD TURN, in delivering of him from every judgment that
by sin he hath laid himself obnoxious to, with rejoicing. For 'mercy rejoiceth against judgment'
(James 2:13). That is, applying it to the mercy of God towards his, it rejoiceth in delivering
us form the judgments that we have deserved; yea, it delivereth us from all our woes with rejoicing.
In the margin it is 'glorieth'; it glorieth in doing this great thing for us. I have thought,
considering how often I have procured judgments and destructions to myself, that God would
be weary of pardoning, or else that he would pardon with grudging. But the Word said, 'He fainteth
not nor is weary' (Isa 40;28). 'I will rejoice over them to do them good,--with my whole heart,
and with my whole soul' (Jer 32:41). This doing of us good with rejoicing, this saving of us
from deserved judgments with rejoicing, this getting the victory over our destructions for
us, with rejoicing; O! it is a marvellous thing! 'O sing unto the Lord a new song, for he hath
done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm hath gotten him the victory'; the
victory for us (Psa 98:1). And as Paul said, 'We are more than conquerors through him' (Rom
8:37); and this he did with triumph and rejoicing (Col 2:15). The heart is seen oft-times,
more in the manner than in the act that is acted; more in the manner of doing than in doing
of the thing. The wickedness of the heart of Moab was more seen in the manner of action than
in the words that he spake against Israel. 'For since thou spakest [of] against him thou skippedst
for joy' (Jer 48:27). So Edom rejoiced at the calamity of his brother; he looked on it and
rejoiced: and in his rejoicing appeared the badness of his heart, and the great spite that
he had against his brother Jacob (Oba 10:14).

Now, my brethren, I beseech you consider, that God hath not only showed you mercy, but hath
done it with rejoicing. Mercy doth not only follow you, but it follows you with rejoicing:
yea, it doth not only prevent your ruin, by our repeated transgressions procured, but it doth
it with rejoicing. Here is the very heart of mercy seen, in that it rejoiceth against judgment.
Like unto this is that in Zephaniah: 'The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty: he will
save, he will rejoice over thee with joy, he will rest in his love, he will joy over thee with
singing' (Zeph 3:17,18).

There are many things that show with what an heart mercy is of God extended, as is afore described,
to Israel for his salvation; but this, that it acteth with rejoicing, that it saveth with rejoicing,
and gets the victory over judgment with rejoicing! is a wonderful one, and one that should
be taken notice of by Israel, for his encouragement to hope. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord,
for with him there is mercy,' tender, great, rich, multiplying mercy, mercy that compasseth
us about, that goeth with us all the way, and mercy that rejoiceth to overcome every judgment
that seeketh our destruction, as we go toward our Father's house and kingdom!

It is said in the Word, God delighteth in mercy. 'Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth
iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not
his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy' (Micah 7:18). Here then is a reason of
the rejoicing of mercy against judgment. Why, mercy is God's delight; or, as another hath it,
'Mercy pleaseth thee.' What a man delights in, that he will set on foot, and that he will seek
to manage, that he will promote, and that he will glory in the success and prosperity of. Why,
the text saith, God delighteth in mercy: nor do I believe, how odious soever the comparison
may seem to be, that ever man delighteth more in sin, than God hath delighted in showing mercy.
Has man given himself for sin? God has given his Son for us, that he might show us mercy (John
3:16). Has man lain at wait for opportunities for sin? God has waited to be gracious, that
he might have mercy upon us (Isa 30:10). Has man, that he might enjoy his sin, brought himself
to a morsel of bread? Why Christ, Lord of all, that he might make room for mercy, made himself
the poorest man (Luke 9:58; 2 Cor 8:9). Has man, when he has found his sin, pursued it with
all his heart? Why God, when he sets a showing mercy, shows it with rejoicing, for he delighteth
in mercy.

Here also you may see the reason why all God's paths are mercy and truth to his (Psa 25:10).
I have observed that what a man loveth he will accustom himself unto, whether it be fishing,
hunting, or the like. These are his ways, his course, the paths wherein he spends his life,
and therefore he is seldom found out of one or another of them. 'Now,' saith David, 'all the
paths of the Lord are mercy' (Psa 25:10). He is never out of them: for wherever he is, still
he is coming towards his Israel in one or other of these paths, stepping steps of mercy. Hence
again it is that you find that at the end of every judgment there is mercy; and that God in
the midst of this remembers that (Habb 2:3). Yea, judgment is in mercy; and were it not for
that, judgment should never overtake his people (1 Cor 11:32). Wherefore let Israel hope in
the Lord, seeing with him is all this mercy.

Ninth. Besides all this, the mercy that is with God, and that is an encouragement to Israel
to hope in him, IS EVERLASTING: 'The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon
them that fear him' (Psa 103:17). From everlasting to everlasting; that is more, more than
I said. Well,

1. Then from everlasting; that is, from before the world began; so then, things that are, and
are to be hereafter, are to be managed according to those measures that God in mercy took for
his people then. Hence it is said, that he has blessed us according as he chose us in Christ,
before the world began; that is, according to those measures and grants that were by mercy
allotted to us then (Eph 1:4). According to that other saying, 'according to his mercy he saved
us,' that is, according as mercy had allotted for us before the world began (Titus 3:5). 'According
to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ before the world began' (2 Tim 1:9).
This is mercy from everlasting, and is the ground and bottom of all dispensations that have
been, are, or are to come to his people. And now, though it would be too great a step to a
side, to treat of all those mercies that of necessity will be found to stand upon that which
is called mercy from everlasting, yet it will be to our purpose, and agreeable to our method,
to conclude that mercy to everlasting stands upon that; even as vocation, justification, preservation,
and glorification, standeth upon our being chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world
(Rom 8:29,30). Here then is the mercy that is with God and that should encourage Israel to
hope. The mercy that has concerned itself with them, is mercy from everlasting. Nor may it
be thought that a few quarrels of some brain-sick fellows will put God upon taking new measures
for his people; what foundation has been laid for his, before he laid the foundation of the
world, shall stand; for that it was laid in Christ by virtue of mercy: that is, from everlasting
(Rom 9:11). The old laws, which are the Magna Charta, the sole basis of the government of a
kingdom, may not be cast away for the pet that is taken by every little gentleman against them.[21]
We have indeed some professors that take a great pet against that foundation of salvation,
that the mercy that is from everlasting has laid; but since the kingdom, government, and glory
of Christ is wrapped up in it, and since the calling, justification, perseverance, and glorification
of his elect, which are called his body and fulness, is wrapt up therein, it may not be laid
aside nor despised, nor quarrelled against by any, without danger of damnation.

Here then is the mercy with which Israel is concerned, and which is with God as an encouragement
to them that should hope, to hope in him. It is mercy from everlasting; it is mercy of an ancient
date; it is mercy in the root of the thing. For it is from this mercy in the root of the thing.
For it is from this mercy, this mercy from everlasting, that all, and all those sorts of mercies,
of which we have discoursed before, do flow. It is from this that Christ the Saviour flows;
this is it, from which that tender mercy, that great mercy, that rich mercy that aboundeth
towards us, doth flow; and so of all the rest.

2. But mercy from everlasting is but the beginning, and we have discoursed of those mercies
that we have found in the bowels of this already, wherefore a word of that which is to everlasting
also. 'From everlasting to everlasting.' Nothing can go beyond to everlasting; wherefore this,
to everlasting, will see an end of all. The devil will tempt us, sin will assault us, men will
persecute; but can they do it to everlasting? If not, then there is mercy to come to God's
people at last; even when all evils have done to us what they can. After the prophet had spoken
of the inconceivable blessedness that God hath prepared for them that wait for him, he drops
to present wrath, and the sin of God's people in this life. This done, he mounts up again to
the first, and saith, 'in those is continuance'; that is, the things laid up for us are everlasting,
and therefore 'we shall be saved' (Isa 64:4,5). How many things since the beginning have assaulted
the world to destroy it, as wars, famines, pestilences, earthquakes, &c., and yet to this day
it abideth. But what is the reason of that? Why, God liveth, upon whose word, and by whose
decree it abideth. 'He hath established the earth, and it abideth'; it standeth fast, and 'cannot
be moved' (Psa 119:90, 93:1, 96:10). Why, my brethren, mercy liveth, mercy is everlasting;
'His mercy endureth for ever!' (Psa 136). And therefore the church of God liveth; and when
all her enemies have done their all, this is the song that the church shall sing over them:
'They are brought down and fallen, but we are risen, and stand upright!' (Psa 20:8). Everlasting
mercy, with everlasting arms, are underneath (Deut 33:27).

And as this shows the cause of the life of the church, notwithstanding her ghostly and bodily
enemies, so it showeth the cause of her deliverance from her repeated sins. As God said of
leviathan 'I will not conceal his parts,' &c. (Job 41:12). So it is very unbecoming of God's
people to conceal their sins and miscarriages, for it diminisheth this mercy of God. Let therefore
sin be acknowledged, confessed, and not be hid nor dissembled; it is to the glory of mercy
that we confess to God and one another what we are; still remembering this, but mercy is everlasting!

As this shows the reason of our life, and the continuance of that, notwithstanding our repeated
sins, so it shows the cause of the receiving [or renewing] of our graces, from so many decays
and sickness. For this mercy will live, last, and outlast, all things that are corruptible
and hurtful unto Israel. Wherefore 'let Israel hope in the Lord,' for this reason, 'for with
the Lord there is mercy.' 1. Tender mercy for us. 2. Great mercy for us. 3. Rich mercy. 4.
Manifold mercy. 5. Abounding mercy towards us. 6. Compassing mercy wherewith we are surrounded.
7. Mercy to follow us wherever we go. 8. Mercy that rejoiceth against judgment. And, 9. Mercy
that is from everlasting to everlasting. All these mercies are with God, to allure, to encourage,
and uphold Israel in hope.

[SECOND. What is to be inferred from this reason.]

I come now to the second thing, which is to show what is to be inferred from this reason. And,

First. This, to be sure, is to be inferred, That Israel, as the child of God, is a pitiful
thing of himself; one that is full of weaknesses, infirmities, and defects, should we speak
nothing of his transgressions. He that is to be attended with so many mercies, absolutely necessary
mercies, for there is not in these mercies one that can be spared, must needs be in himself
a poor indigent creature. Should you see a child attended with so many engines to make him
go, as the child of God is attended with mercies to make him stand, you would say, What an
infirm, decrepit, helpless thing is this![22] Alas! I have here counted up mercies in number
nine. If I had counted up nine hundred and ninety-nine, all had been the same, for the child
of God would not have one to spare. The text saith, 'The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercy,'
and all little enough to preserve his Israel (Psa 119:64). Indeed, those that I have presented
the reader with are the chief heads of mercies; or the head-mercies from which many others
flow. But, however, were they but single mercies, they show with great evidence our deficiency;
but being double, they show it much more.

Should it be said there is such a lord has a son, a poor decrepit thing; he is forced to wear
things to strengthen his ancles, things to strengthen his knees, things to strengthen his loins,
things to keep up his bowels, things to strengthen his shoulders, his neck, his hands, fingers;
yea, he cannot speak but by the help of an engine, nor chew his food but by the help of an
engine. What would you say? What would you think? Would you not say such a one is not worth
the keeping, and that his father cannot look for any thing from him, but that he should live
upon high charge and expense, as long as he liveth; besides all the trouble such an one is
like to be of to others. Why this is the case: Israel is such an one, nay, a worse. He cannot
live without tender mercy, without great mercy, without rich mercy, without manifold mercy
and unless mercy abounds towards him. He cannot stand if mercy doth not compass him round about,
nor go unless mercy follows him. Yea, if mercy that rejoiceth against judgment doth not continually
flutter over him, the very moth will eat him up, and the canker will consume him (Job 4:19).
Wherefore it is necessary to the making of Israel live and flourish, that everlasting mercy
should be over his head, and everlasting mercy under his feet, with all the afore-mentioned
mercies, and more in the bowels of it. But I say doth not this sufficiently show, had we but
eyes to see it, what a sad and deplorable creature the child of God of himself is? O! this
is not believed nor considered as it should. Vain man would be wise; sinful man would be holy;
and poor, lame, infirm, helpless man, would be strong, and fain persuade others that he hath
a sufficiency of himself. But I say, if it be so, what need all this mercy? If thou canst go
lustily, what mean thy crutches? No, no, Israel, God's Israel, when awake, stands astonished
at his being surrounded with mercies, and cries out, 'I am not worthy of the least [I am less
than the least] of all thy mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast showed unto thy servant'
(Gen 32:10).

Second. This also showeth how sorely the enemies of Israel are bent to seek his destruction.
The devil is, by way of eminency, called the enemy of God's people: 'the devil, your adversary'
(1 Peter 5:8). And this, that there are so many mercies employed about us, and all to bring
us to the place which God hath appointed for us, doth demonstrate it. Why, this is the case,
enemies lie in wait for poor Israel in every hole; he can neither eat, drink, wake, sleep,
work, sit still, talk, be silent; worship his God in public or in private, but he is in danger
of being stabbed, or being destroyed. Hence, as was said before, he is compassed about with
mercy as with a shield (Micah 7:20). And again it is said concerning these, 'God's truth,'
his mercy, 'shall be thy shield and buckler' (Psa 91:4). And again, 'He is a buckler to all
them that trust in him' (2 Sam 22:31). Yea, David being a man sensible of his own weakness,
and of the rage and power of his enemies, cries out to his God to take hold of shield and buckler,
and to stand up for his help (Psa 35:2). But what need these things be asserted, promised,
or prayed for? if Israel had no enemies, or none but such, he could, as we say, make his party
good with all. Alas, their cries, their tears, sighs, watchings, and outcries, at sundry times,
make this, beyond all show of doubt, a truth.

If Solomon used to have about his bed no less than threescore of the valiantest of Israel,
holding swords, and being expert in war, every one with his sword upon his thigh, because of
fear in the night--and yet these fears were only concerning men--what guard and safe-guard
doth God's poor people need, who are continually, both night and day, roared upon by the unmerciful
fallen angels of hell! (Can 3:7,8). I will add, if it be but duly considered, all this guard
and safeguard by mercy notwithstanding, how hardly this people do escape being destroyed for
ever, yea, how with hearts broken, and loins broken, many of them with much difficulty get
to the gates of heaven! it will be easily concluded, that her enemies are swifter than eagles,
stronger than lions; and that they often overtake her between the straits.

To say nothing of the many thousands that dare not so much as once think of true religion,
because of the power of the enemy which they behold, when alas! they see nobody but the very
scarecrows which the devil hath set up for I count the persecutor of God's people but the devil's
scarecrow, the old one himself lies quat--yet, I say, how are they frighted! how are they amazed!
What a many of the enemies of religion have these folks seen today![23] yea, and they will
as soon venture to run the hazard of hell-fire, as to be engaged by these enemies in this way.
Why, God's people are fain to go through them all, and yet no more able than the other to do
it of themselves. They therefore are girded, compassed, and defended by this mercy, which is
the true cause indeed of their godly perseverance.

Third. A third thing that I infer from these words is, What a loving God has Israel! 'Truly
God is good to Israel. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so.' A loving God, that should take
this care of him, and bestow so many mercies upon him. Mercies of all sorts, for all cases,
for all manner of relief and help against all manner of perils. What is man that God should
so unweariedly attend upon him, and visit him every moment? Is he a second God? Is he God's
fellow? Is he of the highest order of the angels? or what is he? O! he is a flea, a worm, a
dead dog, sinful dust and ashes; he comes up like a flower and is cut down, and what a thing
is it that God should so much as open his eyes upon such a one! (1 Sam 26:20; Job 25:6, 45:2,3).
But then, what a thing is it that God should magnify him, and that he should set his heart
upon him! (Job 7:17). Yea, that he should take him into acquaintance with him, give his angels
to be all ministering spirits for him! Yea, engage his mercy for him, his tender, great, manifold,
and everlasting mercy for him, to compass him round withal, as with a shield, that nothing
might work his ruin for ever and ever! The old man had given way to new, life and pleasure as they used
to marched through the green trees, and the devil was once again what, how long ago, and was a valued,
respected man

I could not contain myself to take a walk through the diverse society. The brilliant military personnel
from all batches with their equally different Chargierten Schoenen, the graceful and elegant
interior Elegants, the mothers, their daughters dressed to market argued that the well-fed councils,
with a good grip of cash money in his pocket, and Earls, barons, citizens, students and apprentices, decent
and indecent society - all around me, all of them at the most reasonable ways to be mine!
In a relaxed Mood, I went on and on, I was always happier and more cheerful.

Then I saw the midst of the billowing thick of the crowd a few men at a small table wanted to
sit, which are good not quite to my merry company. One I could only see from the back, it was
a small, agile man appeared, much to his Neighbors to speak out gestured frequently with his
arms and, after every major set he spoke, a dark red Franz erkleckliches
sip of wine.

The other might already far advanced in years are, he was poor but neatly dressed, bowed his head
in one hand while the other strange with a long walking stick Figures
in the sand wrote, and he listened with a sad smile to the speaker,
and seemed little or reply brief.

Both characters had something to me so familiar, and yet I could not at the moment remember who
they were. The lively little jumped up at last, pressed the old man's hand walked with short, quick
steps, laughing hoarsely to himself away, and was lost soon into
the crowd.

The old man looked melancholy and then put the tiefgefurchte forehead again in the hand.

I remembered all my friends, not fit to this figure, an idea flew
through I should be there - but what does the devil to make a lot
of compliments?

I stepped closer, put rely on the chair, which the other had, and
offered the old man a good evening.

He slowly raised his head and struck the eye.

Yes, he was there, it was the eternal J ud e.

"Bon soir, baby brother," I said to him, "it's schnack manner to 'agree to Berlin see the zoo
again, it will be probably more years Sun eighty, that I no longer Had pleasure? "

He looked at me quizzically.

"So, it's you?" He finally squeezed out. "Away with you I have nothing to do! "

"Just do not like so gross, Lord," I gave him the answer, "we have
some midnight vertollt together when you were still awake on the ground
and quite systematically debauched lived to yourself soon be brought
under the ground.

But now you are, I believe, a Pietist become. "

The Jew did not answer, but a sardonic smile about his weathered trains flew like a flash through
the ruins, showed me that he is still not right with the Church was agreed.

"Who was going just across from you?" I asked, as he still persisted in his silence.

"That was the Councillor Hoffmann," he said.

"So, the I know him very well, although he always avoids me like an eel, and I was but help him
to some of his nocturnal fantasies that he himself often fear and was afraid, and I did not
as his own doppelgangers over the shoulders looked, as he wrote to his Kreisler? As he turned
and looked at the apparition, called He his wife that they join him, for it was midnight, and
his lamp burning overcast '.-- So, so, was it? And what he wanted from you, Lord? "

"That you warp to your mockery!

Are you not co-eternal with me, and I pressed up the time is not
on his back?

No longer call that I hate the name! But the Councillor Hoffmann is concerned, "he continued
calmly," he goes around to the to look at people, and if he finds
one that has something This striking in themselves, such as a blow
from the lunatic asylum or a stitch from the spirit realm, he is pleased
to bass and characterized him with words or with the stylus.

And because he has felt to me something odd about like, he sat down with me, talked with me
and invited me to him in his house to visit the House of World Cultures.

"

"So, so! And where do you come actually come, if I may ask?"

"Recta from China!" Ahasuerus answered.

"A boring nest, it looks just like before Fifteen hundred years ago when I was the first time there.
"

"In China, were you?" I asked, laughing. "How did you get to the boring people who even for the
devil is amusing enough?

"

"Stop it," replied the other, "you know, like me driving the unrest by the states. I have, as
the morning sun rose behind the new century, the Mongolian mountains
head against the long wall of China ran, but it still did not go with
me to the end, and I rather would have a hole pushed through that
garden wall of the heavenly kingdom, as an old Aries, as that up there
I would have let a hair curl.

"

Tears rolled down the old man out of sight. The tired eyelids would join; but the oath of the Lord
holds it open until he can sleep when the others rise. He had long been silent, and indeed I
was not the poor, without an emotion of pity . See He sat up again .-- "Satan," he asked with
a trembling voice, "how much Clock is he in eternity? "

"It is evening," I gave him the answer.

"Oh midnight!" he groaned, "when finally get your cool shade and fall on my burning eyes? When
you nahest, opening hours, find the graves, and space for e inen, then the rest like? "

"Ugh cuckoo, old Howler!" I broke out, angry about the manners of the eternal whining Wanderers.
"How can you just put up such a poetic lament?

Allowed to believe me, you Congratulate you that you have a little ordinary. Some funny soul
has a certain Place much worse than you here on earth. One has but here its still fun, because
people see to it that great to run out of tricks. If I as many free Would have time as you, I
wanted to enjoy life differently.

Ma foi, baby brother, why go you not to England, where they now publicly about the amorous adventures
of a Queen concerted? Why not come to Spain, where it now breaks out soon? Why not in France,
To have your amusement about how you painted over the walls of the Empire and with old Tapestries
of Louis XIV times they have brought from exile hung. I can assure you, it looks even foolish, because
the wallpaper is everywhere too short through the cracks and still
looks serious and threatening the empire like the blood of the murdered,
which is capable of eliminating any plaster and, as often as we know
it anstreicht still with the old colorful color durchschlaegt!

"

The old man had me zugehoert attention, his face was always cheerful
and Now he laughed heartily.

"You are, as I see, still the same old," he said, and shook my hand, "know each untie something,
and if he is from Abraham Shot would come! "

"Why," I continued, "why do not you hold up longer and more often
here in the good and honest to Germany?

Can you see something comical than this Duodezlaender!

Since everything is so - but still, there goes about a secret by the police. One could easily something
snapped and the Wandering Jew and the devil send as restless heads
to Spandau.

But to get to something else, why are you here in Berlin? "

"This has its own explanation," replied the Jew. "I'm here for a poet to . Visit "

"You a poet?" I exclaimed in surprise. "How do you get on with this idea?"

"I read some time ago, a thing that you say it short story, which
I have the main role played.

Although it led to the stupid title: D erew J building and, after all it is a beautiful poetry that
brought me wonderful consolation!

Now I would like to see the man and To speak has made the strange thing. "

"And it should stay here in Berlin?" I asked curiously. "And what's his name?"

"He should live here and is called FH It has also called me the road,
but my memory is like a sieve through which to pour the moonlight!

"

I was not a little curious how the eternal Jew produce a poet would, and decided to accompany him.
"Listen to old age," I said to him, "we have to always good standing
with each foot, and I hope that you are your feelings towards me 'll
Change.

Otherwise - "

"Is to threaten not just necessary, Mr. Satan," he replied, "because you know I do I have very
little of you and your tricks know sufficiently well, but why you
are me as very pleasant and very old friend.

Why do you ask for? "

"Well, you could give me the courtesy turn me to the poet, who up in a novel abkonterfeite to
take. Will not you? "

"I see not one, for you may have an interest there," replied the old man and looked at me suspiciously.
"You could have any ghosts in the sense and you may flatter even with evil intentions to the
brave man's soul. This by the way you suggest just out of mind, for the pious writes short stories
that the devil himself harm him nothing may go along because of me .-- But you can. "

"I think also in terms of this soul, I'll take care little for poets
and the like;.

The product is light, which asks the little devil. It is for me only interested in the Man himself,
what draws me to him. Besides, in this costume you can not here in
Berlin Make visits, old man!

"

The Eternal Jew gazed with pleasure his worn brown skirt with large Perlmutterknoepfen, his
long jacket with wide Scholars food, his short, zeisiggruenen trousers,
to the Knees were playing towards brown.

He put the black and red, triangular hat on his ear, took the long walking stick firmly into the
hand, stood in front of me and asked:

"I'm not dressed like King
Solomon stately and graceful as the son of Jesse?

What 's wrong with just me? Of course I do not wear a false beard as you, no glasses sits me on the
nose, not my hair is standing in the height a la madness. I have my No body in quilted skirt, pressed
and around my legs tremble not drawn wide trousers, what course Mr.
Bock foot may have caused - "

"Not such lewd belong here," I said to the ancient Jews.

"Know that you must now dressed in the fashion, if you will be making his fortune, and even The
devil makes no exception. But listen to my proposal. I provide you with a decent suit, and
you set it in front of my tutor.

In this way we can get easy access into houses, and how I wanted to reward you if your are a poet
into an aesthetic tea Sedelnikov! "

"An aesthetic tea, what's this? In China, I have some measure swallowed tea, flower tea, Kaisertee,
Mandarin tea, chamomile tea even, but aesthetically tea was never there. "

"O sancta simplicitas! Jew, as far as you're back in the culture!

Do not you know, that these are companies where over tea leaves and some nice ideas sufficiently
warm Water is poured and the people that comes up? Sugar and rum to taste everyone does this,
and they amused themselves there admirably. "

"Have I ever heard such a thing, I will glad Hans," replied the Jew, "and what costs it, if
you can see it?

"

"Cost? It costs nothing, than that of the woman kisses the hand of the house, and when their daughters
give sing or mime performances, here and there a hatch 'wonderful' or 'divine' leaves. "

"That is a wonderful nation has become in the last eighty years. To Frederick the Great Times
they knew nothing of these things. But of the fun because you can go. For I feel in this Sandwueste
tremendous boredom. "

The visit was so fixed on the next day. We are still discussing about the role I have an apprentice
from two to twenty-three years, he would have to play as a tutor, and parted.

I promised excellent maintenance of the morrow.

The Eternal Jew was so old, clumsy manners knew, so did not send in today's world that we had
to keep him in the garb of a tutor, at least, be made for a pedant. I decided, myself as much
elegance as the devil is always possible to create and thereby bring the old man quite at a
loss.

       Distraction was him beyond the stipulated maximum needed; for he
had recently on his solitary walks such an approach get of bigotry
that he threatened to become a Pietist.

The poets, led me to what the Eternal Jew, a man of middle age, took us very well behaved on. The
Jew was called the doctor and placed in me Mucker's Eleven, the young Baron Stobelberg before. I
turned my attention outward sign half on the beautiful Engravings on the wall, on the titles
of many books that stood around for more undivided my ear and if it was possible without being
noticed, even my mind to participate in the conversation to leave.

The old man began with praise about the amendment from the Wandering
Jew, and the poet, however, much too fine and educated, as he would
have his guest to leave this praise, turned the conservation on the
legend of the Wandering Jew at all and that they will be addressed
in that way was.

The Eternal Cut to the astonishment of the poet, grim faces, as these individual others claimed
that it is in the legend of the Wandering Jew a deep morality, for the depraved among men apparently
was always the one which his pain of disappointed hopes was just at the outlet, excited that
hope. He appeared particularly discarded if both of which excited the hopes of appearing more
unhappy than he who was mistaken.

There was little, so the doctor would have saved Mucker his incognito, and been a really brilliant
poet as the eternal Jew went to his body.

Still confused but was my old tutor, than that brought the conversation to the more recent literature.
Here, his voice was completely , and he saw the next best opportunity to recommend.

A good man invited us to visit him often, and no sooner had he heard that we are completely
stranger in Berlin and still do not know how we should spend the evening, he asked us to him
to assist in a house where all the assembly selected the company of friends of the beautiful
Literature was gathered over tea. We told thankful and resigned.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XII.

Satan visits the Wandering Jew an aesthetic tea.

Ahasuerus was upset the whole day. The very thing that he in his heart
the poet legally had to give him so much embarrassed.

He growled once more about the others about the "pert Youth (Although the poets of that amendment
had been in years) and the decay of time and customs.

Despite the respect that I would have against him as my tutor should have I told him a good opinion
and took the old bears by at least so far, that he wanted to be polite to the man who was so like
us in the tea aesthetic to lead.

The seventh hour struck. In a fashionable tuxedo, well flavored, in the fine, delicate pleated
linen dress, the trousers of Paris, the broken Seidenstruempfe Lyon, the shoes of Strasbourg,
the eye-glass worked so fine and pleasant, as show only accessible
from the factory of Messrs. Lood in Werenthead, I introduced myself
to the astonished eyes of the Jews is, this was not with his fashionable
toilet half done and the maximum was dressed strangely, such as that
the elegant, high tie a Berlin masterpiece, had tied a belt around
the waist, and firmly insisted on this is the latest costume from
M ore a.

After I cleaned it with much difficulty, we set out.

In the car I to brilliant act, had rented for the evening, I repeated all the lessons about
the social Decency.

"You must," I told him, "in an aesthetic tea rather than scattered and deep thinking cheeky
appear. You may not necessarily commend, but look 'always look as hast thou anything else up its sleeve
that would be much too wise for a mortal ear. The Beifallaecheln Hochweis satisfaction is difficult
and can take a long practice before the Mirrors are completely learned.

It has, however, surrogates for praise by which something very and can blame bitter, without having
read it removed. Do you hear such talk about a novel, who now will be a lot of attention. It
is just a natural forward, to keep it have already read, must and will ask you for your opinion. Will
you now ridiculous make and answer, I have not read it? No! You respond freshly to it: 'He I like
the whole not bad, even though he claims not to my novels correspond. He has some depth and originality,
the development is fiction-like, but I think here are missing and there in the form of something,
and lists some of the characters too. "

"Say you so, and did you put in the mouth and forehead wrinkles critical, so you will no deep
and nimble Judgement denied. "

"Your drivel keep the devil," replied the old man sullenly. "Do you think I will because these
little people, or even to make you fun, aesthetic facial cut? Because fraudsters you do very,
Satan. I will drink tea for my sake as much as you want, but - "

"As you can see it again," I objected, "who is going for in a respectable company SA Ufen? How much
you still lack to appear today formed as! Sip sip, Maximum drink - but since the car already holds
in the poet, take up with the fact that We do not ridicule, Ahasuerus! "

The poet sat down with us and the car rolled on, I saw it on the old well, that he, the closer
we got the goals of our trip, the more terror waxes stronger was mute. Although He has over
eighteen centuries walked the earth, so he could be so little found in people and their relationships,
that he bumped every moment. So asked He, for example, the poet on the road, whether the Assembly,
in which we sail, out of pure Christian there, to which question
that naturally large eyes and did not know quite liked they come here.

With a few, but striking trains us designed by the poet the circle that should take us. The mild and
thoughtful piety, prevail in the delicate character of the lady should, and the solemn seriousness,
the quiet grandeur of the elder lady, who, although Protestant, quite
sad that the Air had holy nuns, who, having broken with Heart of the
world said goodbye, now you all through life in a great, interesting
Pain consume, [footnote: All in the rush to the publisher assumes
the freedom, the elevation the boudoir of Protestant nun, as he imagines
it to be attached here.

In the window are flowers in the corner, a prayer-desk with a cast iron crucifix. A guitar is a
necessary Prop, though but the owner can at most play "Sanctissima O" on it. A Holy image over
the sofa, a picture of the measures imposed by Flor V defunct or U ngetreuen, entwined by etzlichem,
thoughtful ivy. She herself in white or ashen Costume, a mirror on the wall.] The younger lady,
fresh, round, blooming, bright, naive, was in love with a guard lieutenant, but because he is
not the parents thoughtfully enough is, do not come to the aesthetic tea. You have the most beautiful
places in Goethe, Schiller, Tieck, etc., which her mother previously painted, learned by heart and
give it here and with precision because dearest price. She sings, which is not expected, at the
request Italian arias with artificial rolls. Their main force is the waltz but the games. The
rest of the company, some wits, some critics, sentimental and naive, young and older women, free,
and others Fraeulein [footnote: Satan appears here between to distinguish Freifraeulein and
other Fraeulein. Among those he understands the good of Adel, under the latter, which one means
or otherwise spinster housekeeper. I think by the way to define the difference in this way, very
inappropriate. Because you will agree with me that the bourgeois
Fraeulein often just as free in their manners and conduct, than the
real one.] we learn to know yourself closer.

The car stopped, the footman broke the strike and helped to bang out my mentor. Silently We moved
quickly up the lighted staircase. A lovely Ambraduft us flowed from the hall contrary. Noise
of many voices and the clatter of teaspoons sounded out of the half-open
Door of the salon, they also flew open and bathe in the sunshine of
the floating chandelier, sat in a circle, the society.

The poet took us from the seat of the lady and found the doctor and his Mucker Eleven, the young
Baron of Stobelberg before. Graciously bowed and handed the lady us the beautiful, delicate hand,
by our friendly welcome was called. With that delicate Ease that I had overheard a Viennese
Incroyable, I took the delicate hand and breathed a gentle kiss of awe over it. Like the custom
of the stranger she seemed to like it and like it will grant the
mentor of the well-drawn wards which in fact Favor.

But, oh horror! By niederbueckte, I noticed that his gray, pungent Jews from the chin beard shaved
off was not smooth, but like a prickly singled out. The Madame frowned
fiercely at the piercing kiss, but the decency to not let more than
a faint whine hervorstoehnen. Wistfully looked at the beautiful white
hand, which began aground red, and she was obliged to seek assistance
in the next room. I saw where her maid from the silver toilet colognes
and took the sore spot Rieber. Were then brought beautiful glazed
gloves, cut off the cap of it, so that it could see out the delicate
fingertips, and the gracious hand so clothed. 

Meanwhile, the young
ladies had zugefluestert our names, the men came closer to us and
we interviewed over indifference, to which we replied again indifferent
to the soul of the house came in again. The Noble knew her grief for
the burgeoning hand to hide so well that it seemed to be investigated
only a domestic business and even the old sinner himself knew nothing
of the mischief he had caused.

The only punishment was that they
gave him a piercing look for his stinging hand kiss threw, and me
the whole evening remarkably distinguished him.

The reader will have
seen that it was a very elegant tea, to which, the poet had led. The
massive silver tea at which the younger daughter was preparing tea,
the magnificent chandeliers and mirrors, the burning colors of the
carpets and wallpaper, the artificial flowers in the most delicate
vases, and finally the society itself that is fully Costume was mixed
black and white, would bring about the situation and good tone of
the housewife.

The tea had but also as a aesthetics. Madam sorry
that we did not earlier had come. It is also further declared in that God now threateneth none but those that
refuse to take Jesus for their Saviour, and for that he is resolved to make his foes his footstool.
What are more natural consequences flowing from anything, than that by these things is the
sufficiency of the suitableness of redemption by Christ proved? For all these things followed
Christ, for, or because he humbled himself to the death of the cross, that he might become
a Redeemer; therefore God raised him up, took him to his throne, and gave him glory, that your
faith and hope might be in God by him (Phil 2).

But alas! what need we stand to prove the sun is light, the fire hot, the water wet? What was
done by him was done by God, for he was true God; and what comparison can there be betwixt
God and the creature, betwixt the worth of God's acts, and the merit of the sin of poor man!
And can death, or sin, or the grave hold us, when God saith, 'Give up?' Yea, where is that,
or he, that shall call into question the superabounding sufficiency that is in the merit of
Christ, when God continueth to discharge, day by day, yea, hourly, and every moment, sinners
from their sin, and death, and hell, for the sake of the redemption that is obtained for us
by Christ?

God be thanked here is plenty; but no want of anything! Enough and to spare! It will be with
the merit of Christ, even at the end of the world, as it was with the five loaves and two fishes,
after the five thousand men, besides women and children, had sufficiently eaten thereof. There
was, to the view of all at last, more than showed itself at fist. At first there was but five
loaves and two fishes, which a lad carried. At last there were twelve baskets full, the weight
of which, I suppose, not the strongest man could bear away. Nay, I am persuaded, that at the
end of the world, when the damned shall see what a sufficiency there is left of merit in Christ,
besides what was bestowed upon them that were saved by him, they will run mad for anguish of
heart to think what fools they were not to come to him, and trust in him that they might be
saved, as their fellow-sinners did. But this is revealed that Israel, that the godly may hope
and expect. Let Israel therefore hope in the Lord, for with him is plenteous redemption.

[Amplifying reasons as a conclusion of the whole.]

Now as this last clause, as I termed it, is the amplification of the reason going before; so
itself yieldeth amplifying reasons as a conclusion of the whole. For,

First. Add redemption unto mercy, and then things still are heightened and made greater. And
it must, because the text adds it, and because both the nature of God, the holiness of his
law, and the present state of the sinner that is to be saved, requireth that it should be so.
God is justice as well as mercy; the law is holy and just; that man that is to be saved is
not only a sinner, but polluted. Now, then, that mercy and justice may meet and kiss in the
salvation of the sinner, there must be a redemption; that the sinner may be saved, and the
law retain its sanction and authority, there must be a redemption; that the sinner may be purged
as well as pardoned, there must be a redemption. And, I say, as there must, so there is: 'For
with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.' Mercy is the original,
the cause, and the manager of our redemption. Redemption is the manifestation, and the completing
of that mercy. If there had been no mercy, there had been no redemption. Mercy had been defective
as to us, or must have offered violence to the law and justice of God, and have saved us contrary
to that word, 'In the day thou eatest thou shalt die,' and 'Cursed is every one that continueth
not in all things written in the book of the law to do them.' But now, redemption coming in
by mercy, the sin is done away, and the sinner saved, in a way of righteousness.

Second. By law as well as grace; that is, in a way of justice as well as in a way of mercy.
Through the redemption that is in Jesus Christ, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation
through faith in his blood, and so to show the world the equity of his proceeding with sinners
in the saving of their souls. As if God should say to all those who stumble at the salvation
of sinners by grace, Behold, I act according to law and justice. For of grace I save them through
a redemption, and therefore am faithful and just to my law, as well as free and liberal of
my mercy. Wherefore thus I declare I am righteous, faithful, and just in passing over or remitting
of sin. Nay, the matter so standeth now betwixt me and the sinful world, that I could not be
just if I did not justify him that hath faith in the blood of Jesus, since by that blood my
justice is appeased for all that this or that sinner has done against my law!

This is a way that God, nor any child of his, need be ashamed of before any that shall call
in question the legality and justice of this procedure. For why may not God be merciful, and
why may not God be just? And since he can be both merciful and just in the salvation of sinners,
why may he not also save them from death and hell? Christ is God's salvation, and to show that
he is not ashamed of him, he hath presented him, and the way of redemption by him, before the
face of all people (Luke 2:30-32). Nor is the Son, who is become, with respect to the act of
redemption, the author of eternal salvation, ashamed of this his doings. This he speaks to
show what were some of his sufferings when he engaged in the work of our redemption, and how
heartily he did bear and go through them. 'For,' says he, 'the Lord God will help me,' that
is, justify me in it, 'therefore shall I not be confounded, therefore have I set my face like
a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed' (v 7). And if God, and his Son Jesus Christ,
are neither of them ashamed to own this way of salvation, why should the sinners concerned
thereabout be afraid thereupon to venture their soul? I know, saith he, 'I shall not be ashamed';
I shall not, that is, when all things come to light, and everything shall appear above board;
when the heart and soul of this undertaking of mine shall be proclaimed upon the house-tops,
I know I shall not be ashamed.

It was also upon this account that Paul said he was not ashamed of the gospel (Rom 1). For
he knew that it was a declaration of the highest act of wisdom that ever God did spread before
the face of the sons of men. And of what wisdom is the gospel a declaration but of that of
forgiveness of sins by grace, through the redemption that is by the blood of Jesus Christ?

And as Paul speaketh here as a minister, so he speaketh after the same manner also as he is
a believer, saying, 'I am not ashamed' of this gospel, 'for I know whom I have believed,' or
trusted with my soul, 'and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed
unto him against that day' (2 Tim 1:11,12). Wherefore seeing that mercy is not presented to
us alone, or singly, but as accompanying and concurring with redemption; it is manifest enough
that mercy standeth not above, and consequently that it saveth none but in, by, and through
a Redeemer. He that believeth not in Christ shall be damned. But what needs that, if mercy
could save the soul without the redemption that is by him? If any say, Christ is the mercy
of God to us. True, if you count him a Redeemer, a worker out of a redemption for us by his
death and blood upon the cross. But otherwise he is none; I mean, if you make him a lawgiver,
and a Saviour, only as he has set an example to us to get to heaven by doing commandments,
or by treading in his steps. Yea, though you say his commandment is that we believe in him:
for, take the work of redemption by his blood from the curse, out of his hand, and then what
concerning him is left from me to believe, but, as was said before, that he is a lawgiver,
and as such, at best, but a pattern to us to get to heaven, as here? And whoso counteth him
as such, is so far off from counting of Christ the mercy of God to us, that they make him a
contradictor of mercy, both in the fountain and all the streams of it. For to propound life
eternal to us, through the observation of laws, is to set before us that which contradicteth
grace and mercy, let the work be what it will; nor will it help at all to say, that they that
do the law of Christ, or that take him for their law and example, shall be sure of mercy to
pass by their shortness of attaining to the perfection of what is set before them. For all
this might have been done, and not one drop of blood spilt for the redemption of man. This swamp was long the Celts against the attacks of the Kings of Wessex protected and Alfred
had granted a refuge from the persecution of the Danes. In those distant times this area could
only be passed in boats, it was a big lake where a lot small islands of varying terrain and treacherous
lay scattered about, which were covered with lush reeds and on which it from deer and wild pigs
swarming. In times of the Tudors had the traveler, the road from Ilchester to be Bridgewater
led to make the water half a detour of several miles. As Monmouth looked down at Sedgemoor,
it was drained in part by the Arts and numerous deep trenches cut, which will be there, "Rhines'
called. raised the midst of the moor in the immediate vicinity of the steeples some villages
whose names imply that they were once washed by the waves. called in one of these villages, Weston
Zoyland lay the royal cavalry, and Feversham had set up his headquarters there. Many people
still living who knew the daughter of the maid to assist him in that day tables served, and a
big bowl of Persian porcelain, which was set before him, is still in the neighborhood kept.
It should be noted that the population of Somersetshire not like the factory districts of
immigrants from distant places exists. One finds often agriculturists, cultivating still the
same soil, their Ancestors built, as the Plantagenets ruled England. The traditions of Somersetshire
are therefore relevant to the historian of no small value. [89]

Further away is the village of Bridgewater Middlezoy. In this village and its Environment was the
militia of Wiltshire under Pembroke's commands quartered.

On the open moors, near Chozoy, several battalions of regular infantry
camped.

Sadly Monmouth looked down at her, for he remembered involuntarily because he a few Years
at the top of an existing column from the same people the wild enthusiasts which Bothwelbrücke
defended, had driven in complete confusion before them.
 There also followeth therefrom, that by the blood of Christ we have not redemption from
law, and justice, as to the condemning part of both, but that rather this title is given to
it for honour and glory, to dignify it; as the name of God is also given to him: for they that
affirm the one, are bold to affirm the other. For as by them is concluded, that there is no
necessity why the blood of Christ should be counted the absolutely necessary price of our redemption
from the curse of the law and severity of justice; so by them it is concluded, that it is not
necessary to hold that Christ the Redeemer is naturally and co-eternally God, as the Father.
But 'let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous
redemption.'

Third. Must there be redemption by blood added to mercy, if the soul be saved? This shows us
what an horrible thing the sin of man is. Sin, as to the nature of it, is little known in the
world. O! it sticks so fast to us, as not to be severed from us by all the mercy of God: do
but exclude redemption by the blood of Christ. I will say it over again. All the mercy of God
cannot save a sinner, without respect to redemption from the curse of the law, by the death
and blood of Christ. 'Without shedding of blood is no remission' (Heb 9:22). No remission,
no pardon, or passing by of the least transgression, without it. Tears! Christ's tears will
not do it. Prayers! Christ's prayers will not do it. An holy life! the holy life that Christ
lived, will not do it, as severed from his death and blood. The word redemption, therefore,
must be well understood, and close stuck to, and must not be allowed, as properly spoken, when
we talk of deliverance from sin, the law, and God's curse, unless it be applied particularly
to the death and blood of Christ (Eph 1:7). We have redemption through his blood (Rev 1:5).
'Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us; for it is written,
Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree' (Gal 3:13). He has redeemed us to God by his blood.
This is the redemption that is joined with mercy, yea, that is the fruit thereof; and it is
that without which sin cannot be removed out of the sight of God. Moses, that was a better
preacher of the law, and the sufficiency of the righteousness thereof, than any now can pretend
to be, yet he full well declared by all his bloody sacrifices, that the blood and death of
Jesus Christ is of absolute necessity for the redemption of the soul. Besides, he tells us
that the man that should flee to the city of refuge, from the avenger of blood, should not
be at liberty from the law, unless he kept himself close in that city until the death of the
high-priest. Wherefore, Christian man, know thou thy sin in the nature of it and persuade thyself,
that the removing of it from before the face of God is by no less means than the death and
blood of Christ. But it is a poor shift that the enemies of the truth are put to, when, to
defend their errors, they are forced to diminish sin, and to enlarge the borders of their fig-leaf
garments, and to deny or cast away, as much as in them lies, one of the attributes, the justice
of God. Indeed they will say they abhor to do thus, and all erroneous persons will put the
best face they can upon their bad matters; but the natural consequences of things amount to
it; nor can they, when men stick close to their sides, avoid the charge.

Fourth. Then here you see the reason of that free course that mercy hath among the sons of
men, and why it doth, as has been showed before what it doth. Why justice is content. Blood
hath answered the demand of justice. The law hath nothing to object against his salvation that
believeth in Jesus Christ. Blood has set the door open for us with boldness to go to God for
mercy, and for God to come with his abundant grace to us. This is the way that Moses desired
to find, when God so largely spake to him of his mercy. 'Thou hast said,' says Moses to God,
'I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Now, therefore, I pray thee,
if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now thy way that I may know thee,' &c. (Exo 33:12,13).
What if it should be applied thus? thou now talkest of mercy, but in thy words to us from the
Mount, thou spakest fire and justice; and since thou hast delivered us to holy a law, and are
resolved that the least tittle thereof shall by no means fall to the ground; by what means
is it that mercy should come unto us? Well, saith God, I will show thee my way, I will put
thee in a clift of the rock, which was a figure of Christ, for Christ says, 'I am the way'
(Exo 34; John 14:6). This done, he proclaimed his name, and showed him how he could be gracious,
and gave him the sign of his being merciful, a promise that his presence should go with him.
The breaking then of the body of Jesus was, the renting of the vail, that out of which came
blood, that the way to God might be living; and not death, or sword, or flame, to the poor
children of men. Out hence therefore bubbleth continually the tender mercy, the great mercy,
the rich mercy, the abundant mercy, the multiplying mercy, and every other mercy of God to
us for our present and everlasting good.

Not that God was sparing of his mercy, and would not part with it unless paid for it; for this
way of redemption by blood was his contrivance, the fruit of his wisdom (Eph 1:8). So then,
God was big with mercy for a sinful world; but to be continually extending of mercy, since
sin and justice, because of the sanction of the law, lay in the way as a turning flaming sword,
there did lie the work (Gen 3:24); so it was concluded, that mercy might, in a way of justice,
be let out to sinners; Christ, the Son of God, should die for the sin of man. By which means
the outcries of the law and justice against us for our sins did cease, and mercy flowed from
heaven like the waters of Noah, until it became a sea (Micah 7:18,19).

By redemption by blood, therefore, is this great mystery--That a just God can save that man
that has broken that law, that God has said he will inflict the penalty for the breach thereof
upon, and do his justice no wrong--expounded; not by a relaxation of the punishment, as the
doltish wisdom of this world imagines; but by an inflicting of the exactest justice upon that
nature that has offended. My father is a country parson, my Mother
was a pious woman, her son would like to like to see in the surplice. You have to suddenly decided,
for with a scar from ear to mouth I can not pulpit more climb. "

The boys looked sympathetically at the brave theologians, probably with secret sadness at the
Pain of the old pastor, think of the misery of the pious mother liked it when the message arrived
in that accident. But I thought it was for the greatest happiness of the youth, by be given
such a short operation in the world again. I asked him what he begin now remember, and he openly admitted
that the status of a cavalry or an actor it would have always been most attracted.

I would have covered his neck like this for rational thought, for just under These two classes
I count the most friends and supporters. I advised him thus again earnestly to follow the impulse
of nature, giving him the best letters of recommendation major generals, and promised in the
merits stage settings.

All the staff but that the strange duel had lived, I was an excellent Schmaus, and also my opponent
and his associates were not forgotten. The former theologian I paid later in the silence of
his debts and provided him when he had recovered, with money and
letters, which revealed to him a cheerful, bright career.

My secret campaigns charity was as little as the brilliant outcome
of the affair a secret remained.

You saw me from now on as a higher being, and I knew some young lady even the tears shed over my
magnanimity sentiment.

The doctors, however, let me present a deputation by a magnificent Schlaeger, because I felt, as
she put it, "eruchihre fuerdenguten G r A natomiegeschlagenhabe.

The world remains in all shapes identity, it was from the beginning.

The evil, self- the unreasonable man she worships like when it shows
itself only in a shiny robe; the good, honest virtue of their rough
manners and her unpolished, raw look at most careful, never gain approval.

*

* * * *

CHAPTER IX.

Satan's revenge on Doctor Schnatterer.

When I saw how far the philosophy and theology in ------ s behind my ideas, which I had previously
made, will stay behind, I went eagerly to aesthetics, rhetoric, but especially on the beautiful
literature. It it not be me, I have in this way used my time in vain. I visited so not that famous
school, a study of bread to drive that could once feed on a man with
a wife and child, but the dic cur hic, I called back quite often in
my soul told me always that I should look for in each science to get
a little blow, but me as much as possible in those arts of to perfect
that are now a man of education is indispensable.

On occasion, to quote a passage from a poet, about the beauty of a painting arty talk, a statue
to explain to all the rules for pathetic, for The men some theological literature, some legal
phrases, some new medical Discoveries, some philosophical exorbitant claims to have up your sleeve,
I thought absolutely necessary in order to be able to move about with grace in the modern world,
and without I want to even make a compliment, may I say, I have in
the few months ------ S learned the art.

I have decided, following the example of my idols in writing memoirs, including the small events
be listed if they are instructive or odd if they contain food for
thought or laugh.

I can not fail, therefore, my to tell revenge on Doctor Schnatterer.

Said the doctor had laudable habit, Sunday afternoon with several other professors in a pub to
walk for half an hour outside the city. There used to be to the darn stiff limbs dislocate again,
push pins and other kinds of Kurzweil to drive as it is for honest men fitting, we played well
even when closed Doors Whistchen or a picket and sometimes drank a little glass of thirst,
which at least wanted to see the world from evil, that the gentlemen
in the chaise in the evening of the host bring to the city were.

The venerable theologian but wont always long to return home before sunset, they say, because the
doctor's wife had allowed him a longer time limit, and he then walked leisurely pace its way
avoided, but the broad highway, and took the field path, the thirty steps herlief sideways alongside
that, the reason was because of the wide path at the beautiful Sunday
evening was strewn with pedestrians, the doctor but the higher Roets
his face and the slightly uncertain transition do not show the eyes
of the world wanted.

Thus the Boesen the lonely path Schnatterers declared, the pious but
stopped, looked at him and said, "Behold, he is not on the broad path
of the wicked, the pious doctor, but the narrow path that leads to
life.

"

This habit of the doctor I had built my revenge. I fit him in a beautiful Sunday evening, the
whole world had lured into the open, up, and he appeared in good Days from the inn. With a humble
bow, I approached him and asked me if I allowed to accompany him
on his way home, the evening seemed to me in his scholarly yet close
once so beautiful.

The doctor seemed to have a cordial blow, he put my arm in the trusting his, and started with me perorieren
to the depths of science. But I suggested his eye with blindness, and as I seemed to go as
honorable Studiosus beside him, turned I mean shape and appeared to the astonished gaze of the walkers and
the beautiful Luisel, the notorious prostitute of the city .-- Ah! Hogarth that on that evening
walk under the previous Christians on the broad road would be changed!

What a wonderful originals for pious indignation, rigid surprise malicious glee He could lie
down in his sketchbook.

The foremost stood, the strange pair as they walk in the meadow path
saw they turned to follow us down to the descendants.

Like an immense power rolled we have the quantity, astonished, like a wild fire flew the incredible
rumor: "The doctor Schnatterer with the beautiful Luisel "from mouth
to mouth in the city.

"Woe to him by whom scandal comes!" exclaimed the pious. "If you have ever experienced the one
Christian preacher? "

"Well, well, who would have looked behind the respectable?" said with a shrug of the half-pious.
"If the scandal not only public promenade -!"

"Doctor The Lord make yourself comfortable!" laughing children of
the world, "preaching to the wrong and goes for a walk with sin.

"

It echoed from the field to the city, citizens and students, maids and street boys telling " it
in pubs, at the fountain and at all corners, and "Doctor Schnatterer" and "beautiful Luisel"
was the shout, with the slogan for the evening and some the following day.

At a bend in the road I went unnoticed from the dust and joined as Studiosus to my comrades
who served up the news to me quite warm.

The good doctor but went his way quietly remarked, sunk deep in his meditations, not the pressure
from the amount that was reflected by his vision, not the whinnying laughter, that followed his steps.
It was expected that some pious women of his affectionate Ehehaelfte
the history taught, had pulled even before the theologian at the doorbell;
because on the street You can clearly hear the terrible voice of the
angel court, the welcomed him, and clapping, which was heard here
and there was far too sonorous, as you can imagine that would have
the doctor's wife had the cheek of her husband with the M ande prejudice.

How

I would but thought it was so. After half an hour sent the doctor's wife to me and let me pick.
I met the doctor with highly accumulated cheeks, depressed Sitting
in an armchair.

The woman walked up to me and cried by eyes to hinueberblitzen the doctor dear, "This man then
claimed by the tavern tonight with you come to be gone and you say if it's true, you say! "

I bent down proper and assured me that I had never dreamed of the honor enjoy, and I had been
home all evening.

Thunderstruck, jumped to the doctor, the terror of his tongue seemed paralyzed to have "been at
home?" he stammered. "Do not go with me?

O, with whom should I go be, as with you, dearest friend? "

"What I know with whom the doctor gone?" I gave a smile in reply. "With me not! "

"Oh, you're just too classy, ​​Mr. Hans," cried the angry woman, "what you should not Know
what the whole town knows, the old sinner who Schandmensch!

We know his tricks well, with the beautiful Luisel he scharmuziert!

"This gave me the evil done to enemy," the doctor raced and ran around the room, "the evil one,
Beelzebub, in my conjecture of the Stinker. "

"The noise you did to it, you scoundrel," cried the tender, pulled
her trodden Slippers off and ran after him, but I sneaked down the
stairs and out of the house and thought to myself, "the doctor has
done all right, we should not meet trouble Wall paint, or he comes.

       "

The doctor will Schnatterer ausgepocht from then on in his college
and was able to the bold conjectures the zeal would no longer, under
the front of his fatality of young students had prevailed.

The colleges funds did not reach that sum, which the Professor's wife had adopted as a general scale, and
the professor lived therefore in perpetual strife with the irreconcilable. This was, so to speak,
the T eufel an e iindie W irtschaftgeleg t.

* * * * *

CHAPTER.

Satan is drawn because of inconvenience and interrogated, he leaves the university.

About this time we heard a lot of demagogues in Germany, intrigues, arrests and investigations.
They laughed about it because it seemed to look at everything through the Vergroesserungsglas
which Fear and evil conscience reproached. Besides, it might in some places but not quite
have been uneasy, even in the usually quiet ------ s strange it was
haunted in some minds.

I will give a brief outline of the state of things. If you at ease among the boys walked around
and was present at their feasts, it imposed itself by itself by saying that many of them were
inspired by something other than just by the end of their next Bread studies, as some were very
interested because in the morning with their creditors herumzuzanken and their grades (Philistines
with pump registers), and afterwards to bathe the dog and teach him
the fine arts, then make the window in front of their parade Schoenen,
etc., had the other, and not a minor part, thrown on ideals.

Although I had in that I continued to study the drink, made sure that the guys are not too very
draining the world would like, but it always remained a mysterious workings, from which I was
not very wise.

Especially expressed this when the heads were illuminated; because there was much talk of National
education, religious kind of German, some also bubbled over and shouted at by the emergency
of the country, from - but that is now indifferent to what was mentioned,
it is enough to say that it seemed as if a great idea many hearts
taken them a em braces combined.

I liked the thing in itself is not evil, it should be on something Unsettled Posed so I was right
there, for revolutions have always been my item, and should only In my opinion the whole, have a sleeker,
lighter coat.

There were people among them who to lead with the skill of a statesman, the amount knew who had
an elegance of style, a lightness of intercourse appropriated how
they learned in the diplomatic salons with difficulty and hardly executed
with as much decency is, but most were caught in a fantastic dark,
whispered a lot of the triad in the unity of the idea that they had
risen, and had past and future, Middle Ages and the chaos of the present
time kneaded together so that no Theseus is would have found out from
these labyrinths.

I noticed many times that one or the other of the luminaries in an intimate hour I like to something
would have confided, and I was understanding, World Education, money and big Konnex ions,
properties, to not despise, and which one seeks to draw more into
the middle.

But whenever they were about to catch up with the dark portals of the mystery before my eyes, it seemed,
I do not know what to hold back, they claimed, I do not mind, because this noble Seelenvermoegen
it seemed as touchstone to use it.

But I did look like a disguised Jacobins, I liked by my influence on the amount of suspicion
aroused have? One morning the janitor came with some purring in my Room and took me prisoner
in the name of His Magnificence.

The Universitaetssekretaer followed to arrange my papers and seal, and gave me to understand
that as a D em agoge was arrested.

They gave me a decent room in the university buildings provided, eager for every convenience,
and high when the Council was assembled, I was led into the room to about my political Table V to
be heard vomiting.

The deans of the four faculties, the rector Magnifikus, a physician,
and the Universitaetssekretaer sat around a table draped in festive
green vestments, the profound silence which in the There was room,
the stiff attitude of the learned judges, their tough faces compelled
me involuntarily from a smile.

Magnifikus pointed to a chair opposite him at the end of the table,
sat down Delinquent, Magnifikus waved again, and the caretaker came
from.

Still silence, the Secretary shall manage the paper to the Protocol
and cuts Springs, and an old professor has his enormous box go around.

Each of the men takes a touch, deliberately and with flexion of the head, Dr. Saper, my next neighbor,
snuff and I presented the can be expensive but the magazine, from a defensive view Magnifici scared,
fall with thunderous noise to ground.

"All hail, sir," the old professor, setting aside all respect screamed.

"O

Jerum," groaned the secretary and threw away the pen-knife, for he had made terror cut his finger.

"Humbly"
stammered the frightened doctor Saper.

This all said, confused at once, and the latter knelt on the floor and was with the paper scissors,
which he had taken in haste, the buried tobacco . Shovel

Magnifikus but took the big bell and rang three times, the caretaker
came hurry and consternation in and asked what was to command, and
Magnifikus, with a binding smile doctor Saper over, said, "Let it
be, dear, he is good but nothing more, because we but will be needed
at this meeting, some tobacco, I think this vote must, that will put
fresh ad locum.

"

Saper doctor quickly pulled his purse of, gave the caretaker a few pennies and ordered him to Lot
haste to bring three snuff. This hurried to the hall. In front of the house he found, as I learned
later, gathered half the university, for my arrest was soon known become, and all pressed added
in order to learn the details. One can therefore Voltage of the minds, think as you saw the overthrow
caretaker out the door. The foremost held him and pushed him and asked where he would send
such a hurry, and hardly one could find in his assertion that he
hastened Lot three would have to take snuff.

But the room was after the removal of the gods entered the last, for respectable silence. Magnifikus
touched me with a look of sovereignty and began:

"We are fed from a maximum-price contract of the Central Commission of Inquiry, to some inconveniences,
and secret connections, since some of our university Time to have evolved around to focus our
attention.

We are now having given serious consideration the circumstances totally agree about it, that
you, of any cash, is highly suspect made, have made for such conditions in our academic youth
dahi and angesponnen to have. Hm! What say you, lord of cash? "

"What I say to that? Far yet. I expect the proper evidence to my life and make such an accusation
suspicious behavior.

"

"The evidence?" replied the astonished president. "They demand evidence?

Is that the respect before an academic senate? Man himself will lead the proof that it is not culpable
Suspicion of demagogy. "

can "with Q-term license, your Magnificence," replied the Dean of
the lawyers, "Inquisit, of suspicion when he is accused inalle egeverlangen
W, that his Reasons of suspicion to be named.

"
Rector of the medical state of the cold sweat on his forehead, you
could see that he Muehe the Beweisgruende in his head back and herwaelzte.
Like a messenger from heaven appeared therefore it with the caretaker
of the can and also reported with anxious voice, that the students
have banded together in large numbers in front of the university buildings
and a suspicious murmur through the ranks, walk with the Pereat or
Scheibeneinwerfen seemed to threaten.

He had hardly spoken, so a
servant rushed in and taught by the woman Magnifikussin in the Lord
Magnifikus a compliment from, "and he would like to exculpate home,
because the students did all sorts of suspicious movements. "

"Is
not this the clearest evidence against your secret machinations, dear
Lord of cash?" said Magnificence in the plaintive tone. "But the rebellion
is rising, Videant Consul, ne quid detrimenti - you take his measures,
- that the devil just to run the office of my all fatal Haendel must
bring - Domine Collega, Dr. Pepper, what do you agree?

"It's really
not a vote yet submitted to the vote and advanced to maturity, I guess
to dismiss but, Lord of cash until further notice and he - " For this is the very cause why this is added in the text, to wit, the plenteousness
of redemption, it is, I say, that men should hope to partake by it, of the goodness and mercy
of God. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous
redemption.' Mercy and redemption, mercy through a Redeemer, therefore 'let Israel hope'! It
must also be noted, that this word redemption is, as it were, the explicatory part of the text,
for the helping of Israel to hope. As who should say, as there is with God mercy, so there
is with him a way to his mercy, and that way is redemption, or a price paid for your sins;
and that you should not be discouraged through the greatness of your sins, I tell you there
is with God plenty of this redemption, or a price paid to the full; to an over and above. It
also is as if he had said, Forget not this, for this is the key of all the rest, and the great
support to the saints in prayer, or while they wait upon God in any of his appointments to
encourage them to hope.

Tenth. And lastly, This also should teach the saints, when they sin or praise the Lord, they
should not sing of mercy only, but of mercy and judgment too; 'I will sing of mercy and judgment;
unto thee, O Lord, will I sing' (Psa 101:1). Of mercy and judgment, or justice in the manifestation
of it, as smiling upon our forgiveness. When Hannah sang of, and rejoiced in God's salvation,
she sang aloud of holiness, saying, 'There is none holy as the Lord' (1 Sam 2:1,2). Holy in
keeping his word, though it cost the blood of his Son. This also is that that is called a helping
of his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, and the performing of the mercy promised;
even the oath that he sware to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us, that we being
delivered out of the hands of our enemies--by a Redeemer--might serve him without fear, &c.
(Luke 1:49,54). When you praise, therefore, remember Christ and his blood, and how justice
and judgment took hold on him, that they might not take hold on thee; yea, how they by taking
hold on him, left a way to thee to escape. Isaac should have been sacrificed, had not the Lord
provided a ram; and thou thyself shouldest have been damned, had not the Lord provided a lamb
(Gen 22; Rev 5). Hence Christ is called the 'Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world,'
that taketh them away by the sacrifice of himself. Sing therefore in your praises unto God,
and to the Lamb!

[THE APPLICATION OR USE OF THE WHOLE.]

I would come now to speak one short word of use to the whole. And,

First. This still shows more and more, what a sad state God's people have brought themselves
into by sin. I told you before that the revelation of so much mercy as is presented unto us
by the first part of the text, sufficiently declared our state to be miserable by sin. But
what shall we say, when there must be added to that the heart blood of the Son of God, and
all to make our salvation complete? For albeit mercy is essential to our salvation, and that
without which there can be no salvation; yet it is the blood that maketh the atonement for
the soul, THAT propitiates, and so makes capable of enjoying of it. It was mercy and love,
as I said afore, that sent one to shed his blood for us; and it is the blood of him that was
sent, that puts us into the enjoyment of mercy. O! I have thought sometimes, what bloody creatures
hath sin made us![28] The beasts of the field must be slain by thousands before Christ came,
to signify to us we should have a Saviour; and after that, he must come himself, and die a
worse death than died those beasts, before the work of saving could be finished. O redemption,
redemption by blood, is the heart-endearing consideration! This is that which will make the
water stand in our eyes, that will break a heart of flint, and that will make one do as they
do, that are 'in bitterness for their first-born' (Zech 12:10).

Sinner, wouldst thou have mercy? wouldst thou be saved? Go thou then to the blood of the cross,
as set forth in the word of the truth of the gospel, and there thou shalt find that mercy that
thou hast need of first; for there is a mercy that may be called a FIRST mercy, and that is
the mercy that gives admittance into, and an interest in all the rest. Now the mercy that doth
this, is that which reconcileth us to God; but that other things cannot do, if we stand off
from the blood of the cross. Wherefore we are said to be reconciled to God, by the death of
his Son. According to that other saying, 'He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him
up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?' (8:32). In both these
places the Son of God, and our Redeemer, is set forth to us in the first place, as the only
one that reconcileth to God the sinner by the blood of his cross; wherefore to this Christ,
as crucified, the sinner must come first; because nothing else can reconcile to God; and if
thou be not reconciled to God, what art thou but an enemy to him, partake of what mercy thou
canst? (Col 1:20). Go to him, did I say? receive him into the arms of thy faith; hold him fast,
for he is a Saviour; yea, carry him as set forth by the gospel, dying for thee, and pray God
for his sake to bestow upon thee all those mercies that will compass thee about as with a shield,
and follow thee all thy days, till thou enterest in at the doors of eternity; and this is the
way to speed! For he that hath the Son hath life, in the beginning of it; and he that holds
fast the Son, shall have life in the consummation of it. I do the oftener touch upon this matter,
because this Christ is the door, in at which whosoever entereth shall be saved; but he that
climbs up any other way, shall be judged as a thief and a robber (John 10:1).[29] But,

Second. Is Christ, as crucified, the way and door to all spiritual and eternal mercy? And doth
God come to the sinner, and the sinner again go to God in a saving way by him, and by him only?
And is there no other way to the Father but by his blood, and through the veil, that is to
say, his flesh? (Heb 10:19,20). Then this shows the danger, upon what pretence soever, of casting
off the daily sacrifice, and setting up in its place the abomination that maketh desolate.
I mean, of casting away a crucified Christ, and the setting up the vanity of moral obedience
as the more substantial and most acceptable thing with God. I call not a crucified Christ the
daily sacrifice, as if I thought he often suffered for sin, since the foundation of the world;
but because the virtue of that one offering is that, and only that, by the which we daily draw
nigh unto God; and because the virtuousness of that one sacrifice will for ever abide beneficial
to them that come to God, to the world's end by him.

But I say, into what a miserable plight have such people put themselves, that have cast off
coming to God by Christ, as he is the propitiation for their sins, and that seek to come another
way? Such are lapsed again to Gentilism, to Paganism, to Heathenism; nor will it help at all
to say they rely on the mercy and goodness of God, for there is no such thing as spiritual
and eternal mercy can come from God to him, that comes not to him by Christ. The Turks, if
I be not mistaken, have this for the beginning of every chapter of their Alcoran, 'The Lord,
God, gracious and merciful,'[30] yet are counted unbelievers, and are verily so, for they have
not received the faith of Christ. The Lord God, gracious and merciful, will not save them,
no not by grace and mercy, unless repenting of their presuming upon mercy, without a bloody
sacrifice, they come to him by his Son (Acts 4:12). Men therefore that have laid aside the
necessity of reconciliation to God by the precious blood of Christ, are in a damned state;
nor will it help at all to say they do indeed believe in him. I am not so void of reason as
to think that they that have cast away Christ, as he is a propitiatory sacrifice with God for
sin, should also cast away his name out of their mouth; no, his name is too honorable, and
the profession of it too glorious for them to do such a thing. But retaining his name, and
the notion of him as a Saviour, they yet cast him off, and that in those very things wherein
the essential part of his sacrifice, the merit of it, and his everlasting priesthood, consists;
and in this lies the mystery of their iniquity.

They will have him to be a Saviour, but it must not be by fulfilling of the law for us; but
it must not be by the putting of his glorious righteousness, that which he performed by subjecting
himself to the law, on our behalf, upon us; but it must not be by washing of us from our sins
in his own blood; but it must be by his kingly and prophetical offices. When, as for his kingly
and prophetical offices, he puts those people under the government of them that he has afore
made to stand justified before God, from the curse of the law by his priesthood.

The term of mercy is but a general sound, and is as an arrow shot at rovers, unless the blood
and death of the Son of God be set before us, as the mark or mean by which our spirits are
to be directed to it. What profit shall a man have, and what shelter or succour shall he find,
in hearing of the most exact relation of the strength of the most impregnable castle in the
world, unless he knows the door, and entereth in by that, into that place of strength, in the
time when the enemy shall pursue him? Why, this is the case: We hear a noise of mercy, and
of being at peace with God; what a good God, God is, and what a blessed thing it is to be a
child of God; how many privileges the children of God have, and what will be their exaltation
and glory in the next world! And all the while they that tell us these things conceal from
us the way thereto, which is Christ, not in the naming of him, but in the right administration
of his gospel to us.

Christ, and faith in him as a Saviour, not in the name only, but in the true sense thereof,
is the mark, as I have said, from which if any swerve, they err from the saving way, and so
come nothing near that mercy that can save them. Hence Christ is called a standard, an ensign
(Isa 5:26). 'And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign
of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek, and his rest shall be glorious' (Isa 11:10).
And again, 'Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles; and
set up my standard to the people' (49:22). Hence again he is called the captain, the chieftain,
of our salvation, and him without whom there neither is nor can be any.

But now the men of this confederacy, rather than they will submit themselves to the righteousness
of God, will lay odiums and scandals upon them that preach they should (Rom 10:2,4). Not forsooth,
if you will believe them, but that they are highly for the righteousness of God, let it be
that which they count so; but then to be sure it shall never be the personal performances of
Christ, by which they that believe in him are justified from all things; but that which they
call 'first principles,' 'dictates of human nature,' 'obedience to a moral precept,' followed
and done as they have Christ for an example; not understanding that Christ, in his own doings,
is the end of all these things to every one that believeth. But if it be urged that Gentiles
and Pagans are possessed with those very principles, only they have not got the art, as our
men have, to cover them with the name of Christ and principles of Christianity, then they fall
to commending the heathens and their philosophers, and the natural motives and principles by
which they were actuated; preferring of them much before what by others are called the graces
of the Spirit, and principles upon what the doctrine of the free grace and mercy of God by
Christ are grounded. But, as I said, all the good that such preachers can do as to the next
world, is, to draw the people away from their ensign and their standard, and so lead them among
the Gentiles and infidels, to seek by their rules the way to this unspeakable mercy of God.
Wherefore their state being thus deplorable, and their spirits thus incorrigible, they must
be pitied, and left, and fled from, if we would live.

Third. Is Christ Jesus the redemption; and, as such, the very door and inlet into all God's
mercies? Christian man, look well to thyself, that thou goest no whither, and dost nothing,
I mean in any part of religious worship, &c., but as thou art in him (2 Cor 12:18,19).[31]
Walk in him, speak in him, grow in him, for he is THE ALL (Col 2:6,7). And though others regard
not to 'hold the head, from which all the body by joints and bands have nourishment ministered,'
yet have thou a care! (Eph 4:15; Col 2:19). This is he that is thy life, and the length of
thy days, and without whom no true happiness can be had. Many there be that count this but
a low thing; they desire to soar aloft, to fly into new notions, and to be broaching of new
opinions, not counting themselves happy, except they can throw some new-found fangle, to be
applauded for, among their novel-hearers. But fly thou to Christ for life; and that thou mayest
so do, remember well thy sins, and the judgment and wrath of God; and know also that he is
merciful, but at mercy none can come, but through the cursed death Christ underwent. And although
some of the wanton professors of our age may blame thee for poring so much upon thy sins, and
the pollution of thy nature, yet know that there is an advantage in it. There be some alive
in the world, who, though they count the nature and commission of sin the very evil of evils,
yet can say that the remembrance of how vile they are, and of what evils they have committed,
has been to them a soul-humbling, a Christ-advancing, and a creature-emptying consideration.
Though sin made death bitter to Christ, yet sin makes Christ sweet to his. And though none
should sin, that grace might abound, yet where sin has abounded, grace doth much more abound,
not only as an act of God, but also in the eye of faith.

A sight of the filth, and a sense of the guilt of sin, makes a pardon to such a soul more than
empty notion; and makes the mean through which the pardon comes more to be desired than is
either life or limb. This is it that makes the sensible soul prize the Lord Jesus, while the
self-justiciary[32] laugheth him to scorn. This is it which makes the awakened sinner cast
away his own righteousness, while the self-conceited one makes it his advocate with the Father.

Some, indeed, count their own doings the only darling of their soul, while others cast it to
the dogs. And why should a man cumber himself with what is his, when the good of all that is
in Christ is laid, and to be laid out for him? Not that a believer casts off to do good, for
he knows that what good thing is done in faith and love, is acceptable to God, and profitable
to his neighbour. But this is it, he setteth not his good deed against the judgment of God;
he cometh not in his own good. When he comes to God for forgiveness of sins, then he sees nothing,
knows nothing, mentions nothing as righteousness, but that which Christ wrought out in the
days of his flesh, and that only. But how then is what he doth accepted of God? Verily as the
duty of a son, and as the work of one that is justified. We must therefore conclude that there
is acceptation, and acceptation: acceptation of the person, and acceptation of his performance.
Acceptation of the person may be considered with respect to justification from the curse, and
so acceptation there can be none, but through the one offering of the body of Jesus Christ
once for all. Also the acceptation of a duty done by such a person is, by virtue of the self-same
offering, the person being considered as standing just through Christ before God. And the reason
why a justified person must have his duties accepted the same way, as is his person, is because
justifying righteousness sets not the person free from sin, save only in the sight of God and
conscience; he remaineth still infirm in himself, and standeth still in need of the fresh and
continual application of the merits of the Lord Jesus, which also the soul receiveth by virtue
of Christ's intercession. I speak now of acceptation with reference to the justice of the law,
and the judgment of God upon person or work, according to the self-same law. For so they both
must be accepted through the self-same Mediator, or they cannot be accepted at all. Nor is
it a thing to be wondered at, that a man should stand just in the sight of God, when polluted
and defiled in his own sight. He stands just before God in the justice of his Son, upon whom
God looks, and for whose sake he accepts him. May not a scabbed, mangy man, a man all over-run
with blains and blotches, be yet made beautiful to the view of a beholder, through the silken,
silver, golden garment that may be put upon him, and may cover all his flesh? Why, the righteousness
of Christ is not only unto but upon all them that believe (Rom 3:22). And whoso considers the
parable of the wretched infant, shall find, that before it was washed with water it was wrapped
up or covered, as it was found, in its blood, in and with the skirt of his garment that found
it in its filth. And then he washed it with water, and then he sanctified it by the anointing
oil of the Spirit of God (Eze 16:8,9). I speak thus to thee, Christian reader, partly because
in the faith of these things is thy life; and because I would yet enforce the exhortation upon
thee with the reason and the amplification thereof, to wit, to put thee upon trusting in the
Lord through the encouragement that thou hast in redeeming mercy so to do.

Some may say, Will God see that which is not? and will he judge a man just that is a sinner?
But I will answer, The man that had the rainbow about his head, was to look on, or be looked
upon, while he shone like a jasper and a sardix-stone (Rev 4:3). The blood of the paschal lamb
was to be looked upon by him that came to destroy the land of Egypt in their firstborn (Exo
12:13). I add, The rainbow that God gave to Noah for a token that he would no more destroy
the earth with the waters of the flood, was to be looked upon, that God might remember to show
mercy to his people (Gen 9:8-17). Now all these meet in the man Christ Jesus, who is the only
one, for the sake of whom the sinner that believeth in him stands acquitted in the sight of
God. His is the blood, he is the prince, that is more than the token of the covenant: nor do
all the colours in the rainbow appear so beautiful in the eyes of man, as does the garment
of Christ; which is from his loins, even upward, and from his loins, even downward, in the
eyes of the God of heaven (Eze 1:27,28). And wilt thou say these are things that are not? Also,
he can legally judge a man just, that is a sinner. Do but admit of a diverse consideration,
and God will so consider of that sinner which he justifieth, in despite of all the teeth in
thy proud mouth! 'He justifieth the ungodly' (Rom 4:5). Not that were, but that are such now,
in the judgment and verdict of the law, might deal with them in their own persons as men (Rom
5:5-10). He will then consider them in his Son; in, and under the skirt of his Son. He will
consider them as washed in the blood of his Son, and will also consider 'that in him is no
sin,' and so he will deal with them. 'We know that he was manifested to take away our sins,
and in him is no sin' (1 John 3:5).

What though I have broke a thousand pound in my creditor's debt--yet if another will discharge
the whole freely, what has the law to do with me as to that? Or what if I cannot but live upon
the spend all my days, yet if my friend will always supply my need, and, through his bounty,
keep me from writ, bailiff, or jail, is it not well for me? Yea, what if what I can get shall
be laid up for me for hereafter, and that my friend, so long as there is death or danger in
the way, will himself secure me, and bear my charges to the world's end; may I not accept thereof,
and be thankful? Blessed be God for Jesus Christ! I believe he is more than all this to me.
I know similitudes will not hold in all things; but we that believe are set free from the curse
of the law by another man's obedience. For 'by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous'
(Rom 5:19). Let then the believer, as was said, study and pray, and read God's Word continually,
for the sake of the glory of this truth, that it may be made more his own, and that his conscience
may be more and more settled in the power and glory thereof.[33]

Fourth. As the Christian should most labour to get into the power and glory of this doctrine,
so let him see that he holds it fast. This doctrine is foreign to flesh and blood; it is not
earthly, but from heaven (Matt 16:17). How have many, that as to the grounds of Christian religion,
one would think, had been well taught, yet not taking such heed thereto as they should, they
have let slip all, and their hearts have been filled with the world again, or else have drunk
in some opinion that has been diametrically opposite to what they professed of the truth before
(Heb 2:1-4). Wherefore hast thou anything of the truth of Christ in thy heart? 'Hold that fast,
that no man take thy crown' (Rev 3:11). now a poet of so high positioned person allowed by such a low creature, which is already
suspicious of her mask making, be led to destruction? Can those Great Spirit, which is still
in its case, towers above the other buildings, he may by an ordinary be drawn down, "Brother licentiousness"
than what the Mephisto expels? And - must not This mask would do that tragedy entry?

But I say nothing. To make things happen, nothing is changed, and my dear Grandmother On this subject
would say to me: "son Diabolik Remember that a large Poets have a large audience and to get
a big audience, so popular as possible to be. "

       * * * * *

CHAPTER XVII.

The visit.

This all remains a raised fist poem and G OETHE one of the first spirits his time, and one may
wonder, then, that I felt a great desire in me, this man to see again. I could have made him
an unexpected visit, even if I was often very angry with my caricature,
I was on the point of him once in costume naechtlicherweile of Mephistopheles
to appear to give him some terror in the limbs hunt, but some good
nature, one has sometimes found in me, kept me again and again to
make the old man a sleepless night.

I decided therefore, as Doctor visit legens, an honorable title on the road, it and as such
I arrived in Weimar. It is with famous people as with a strange animal. If an honest tenant with
his family to the city to the fair, so is his first that he asked the porter at the inn: "When
can we see the lions, boy?" "Sir," replied the host, "the monkeys and the seal throughout the
day to have but the lion is best placed, if he has the food in the
body, so I advise to to go that time.

"

Just so happened to me in Weimar. I came out of Jena with a young Americans across. Even in his
country of the poet fame had reached long ago, and he made the big tour through Europe the most
famous man in honor already a detour of twenty miles. In the inn where we were staying, we immediately
asked what time we are with Mr. Goethe could happen? We were traveling clothes, particularly
during my Fellowship had become somewhat insignificant.

The landlord looked at ourselves with suspicious glances and asked, before he even answered our question
as to whether we would have dinner jackets with us.

Luckily we were both equipped with it, and our landlord promised us immediately register to leave.
"They will probably after dinner, at five Clock accepted.

To this There are currently His Excellency most are talking. Also no doubt that you accepted be,
because if you, as the Lord here is especially so in America would be to Weimar, but it relentlessly,
a send away without being seen again. "

This patriotism was indeed very far. But the good man we left it in the belief the young Philadelphians
recta come to Weimar and go from there back home. Incidentally, He predicted correctly: Doctor
legens Supfer, as I called myself, and Fort Hill in America were appointed to five Clock.

At last the hour struck, we were on our way. The poet lives very nice. A gentle, tasteful,
decorated with statues of stairs leads to him. A deep, mysterious Silence lay on the hallway,
we entered. Silently, the servant led us into the parlor. Comfortable elegance, delicacy and subtlety,
combined with dignity, drew this room from. My young companion looked astonished these walls,
these pictures, these Meubles. He had not imagined it, the S tuebchendes
D view.

With the admiration of these environments also seemed afraid of the size of the expected rise.
All shades of red crossed over to his pleasant face. His heart beat audibly, his Eye was rigidly
attached to the door, enter through which the Celebrated had.

I, however, had leisure enough to think about the great man. How much further, I said I just
endlessly about the gifts of the Spirit to help mortals than the random brilliance birth.

The son of an insignificant citizen of Frankfurt has the highest level achieved here, the the people
in the ordinary course of things is open. There has been some such Level climbed. Geschaeftsmaenner
by a specialist have the modest place near the door all the seats of their colleges through,
until the chair, which is initially at the throne, it took up in
his arms.

Some have fought on the battlefield, the portfolio - Goethe has broken its own path on which none
preceded him, he still not followed is. He has proved that man can, what he wants. Because you
tell me anything about a All the comprehensive genius of a spirit that made his age, it gradually
but have led to the higher - the age has made him.

I still can well imagine what was hopeless life "Werther" in the love Germany. The Lotte seemed
as if by magic from the soil to grow. The number of Werther was legion. But what about Goethe's merit
in this?

Had it really only missing the fact that He was the horn to his lips,
and at the first note he stated, had priest and Layman, nun and little
ladies in their whimsical antics of St. Vitus dance begin?

As means this great creative mystery? A Z lleszurrechten an t. The "Sieg" had defrosted the
hard hearts and for all kinds of misery, for moonlight and Graeber susceptible made since coming
Goethe -

The door opened, - he came.

Three times we bent down deep - and then dared to blink up at him. A nice, handsome old man! Eye clear
so and bright as a young man, his forehead full sovereignty, mouth full of dignity and grace.
He was dressed in a fine, black dress, and from his Chest gleamed a beautiful star .-- But it
we did not take long time for such considerations. With the use of a fine man of the world, which
daily provides so many admirers with him, invited he us to sit down.

What I was for a donkey had to go in this so habitual mask to him! Doctores Legents he might
have seen many hundreds. Americans who said as our host, he sake
of the sea were certainly a few.

Thus it happened that he was mostly with my Fellowship entertained. Had I but for a scholar
or a beautiful Iroquois Spirit spent the Mississippi! If I could not tell him wonders how his penetrated
beyond the glory to Ohio, how in the Cabane of Louisiana about him and his "Wilhelm Meister"
to chat - so I was given some minor phrases, and my lucky Fellowship could entertain the great
man.

How wrong are often the terms, which one of the entertainment with a large Man makes! He is
known as a funny head, so you think you when you visit him for the first time a type of electrical machine
too close. It flatters him, you think he would have to be Joke sparks radiate from, as the
black cats, if given at night his back strokes. Is he a novelist, so perk to have an interesting
short story, the shake the Famous for entertainment only quick off
the cuff will.

Is he even a Playwright, he tells us, perhaps a friendly plan to a new tragedy with which we can
then set before our very warm friend again. Is he even a comprehensive Head like Goethe, one who is to
say that meets all the saddles - as interesting as instructive must be the conversation! How much you
have to pull himself together but also to to meet him!

The Americans also thought that, before he sat next to Goethe. His I drove like that of the good
Walt, before he came to Flitt [Footnote: Jean Paul Flegel years], anxious above in all four chambers
of the brain down and out in about two heart chambers, such as a mouse to it as a tasty Ideenkoernchen
raise, which he could carry him and submit to the snack bar. He looked on anxiously the lips
of the poet, not a word attributed to him as the candidate to the strict Examiner, and he doubled
up his hat and tore a glove into small glazed Pieces. But what a hundredweight stone might drop
it by heart, as the poet from his height came down to him and with him as Hans and Harry said in
the pub.

He said, namely with it by the good weather in America, and by about the ratio of wind to the
air, the dunes of the water-rich in America which is widespread in our old Europe, showed letting
us know that the universe of science is absorbed into him, because he was not only lyrical
and epic poet, linguist and novelist, comedy and tragedy, poet, biographer (his own) and a
translator - no, he was even meteorologist!

Who can be boast penetrated so deeply into the mysterious realm of knowledge to? Who can say
of himself that he's with any language, that is not his Patriotic speak a dialect, but what
he would like to just be familiar with and value that you can! I think if I would have him as
a traveling chef for up leads, he would have with me in scholarly discussions about embedded
the mysterious composition of a Gaenseleberpastete calculated or after a Sekundenuhr how long
one had to cook a steak on each side.

So with the beautiful weather in America, we talked, and behold - the Armesuendergesicht of
American brightened, the floodgates opened his eloquence - he described the fine, soft rain
of Canada, he let the roar of New York and Fruehlingsstuerme praised the umbrella factory in the
Franklin Street in Philadelphia.

I was at the end, as I would not Goethe, but in a host home in good old fellow, and it would with
a bottle of beer, talked about the weather, so human, so cordial
was our discourse, but that's just the great mystery of the conversation
that one habit - not to speak well, but good to hear n. When the less
Time and space are educated to speak, when it makes a face as you
listen aware of his honey words, he will later announce with enthusiasm
that one at such and such a flavorful entertain.

This did a lot of experienced writers, and instead give us a mite of his wealth, he would have to
provide us with weather observations.

After we might have him ennuyiert sufficiently, he gave the signal
to get up, the Chairs were moved, removed their hats and sent to us,
our farewell compliments to make.

The good man had no idea that he quote the devil, as he wished magnanimous me also to see
with him, I said to him, and it will keep its time has yet; for indeed his Mephistopheles
I have not swallowed. Only one - two Bow, we left.

Silent and still quite stupid admiration of the Americans followed me to the inn, and the Redness
of the lively discourse was still on his cheek, sometimes sneaked
a approvingly Smile on his lips, he seemed highly pleased with the
visit.

Having arrived at our room, he threw himself heroically in a chair and had two bottles Champagne
apply. The cork was driving with a joy shot at the ceiling, the Americans make up two glasses,
offered me one and struck on the welfare of that great poet.

"Is it not good news," he said, "to find men were raised as high as
one of us?

I was uneasy and afraid of a genius who wrote thirty volumes; I must confess, at the storm that
covered us in the open sea, I was not so afraid. And how condescending he was, as he has sensibly
diskuriert us had the joy he to me, as I came out of the new country! "He poured himself thereby
a hard working and drinking woozy on his and the poet's health, and
the witnessed grace and sparkling wine He finally fell with the determination
to be America's Goethe to sleep in his arms.

But I sat down to the rest of the bottles.

       This wine has all the drinks on earth he who pleases me the most,
be easier volatile spirit that so little ground Gravity carries with
it, makes him worthy of spirits in human bodies when they visit the
earth to be tasted.

I had to smile when I looked at the Blessed
Schlaefer, how easy it is for a great man to make
other people happy, he
                         must ask themselves is, as if they were to him pretty much the same,
and they come almost from the mind.

* * * * *

THE FEAST in purgatory.

A sketch.

"The greatest happiness of the historian is that the dead not for their views can protest. " World
and time. I.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Description of the feast.

Satan meets three strange subjects.

I share here a section from my memoirs, which, though not concern myself I recorded me but because
he gave me was very interesting and perhaps in other not be without some interest would like.
He leads the inscription: "T he F esttag in F egefeuer "and came following the request for this
title. It is on the Earth in all the great lords and potentates custom, their joy and their
sorrow quite noisy and to commit much. When a native of royal blood body given the dust is the coast line
in the land of hard work, for it will ring bells for many days.

When a princess or even an heir born, announces terrible cannon this message. Landesvaeterliche landesmuetterliche
or birthdays, if possible, with all Gloss committed. The citizen militias case back from the
dignitaries hold a feast in the evening Ball is, or at least in the Landstaedtchen biere dans
ante. In short, everything lives in dulci jubilo on those days.

G ross now to my good mother to prove an honor, I thought it already has more for centuries.
In Purgatory, where she is usually always in this Days common soul freedom. The souls get this day over
the body which will feature on had the upper world, their clothes, their customs, their manners. What
is there of nobility, must send deputations to the hand kiss the
elderly (in pleno they can not be admitted, otherwise the procession
lasted several days).

Former Hofmarschaelle, chamberlains and so have the great service and appreciate it an honor
to do the honors, the festivities to lead to arrange the tours in the balls, which are given in the evening,
etc.

I fulfilled through these celebrations a dual purpose. Suddenly feels chere Grande-Mama extremely
flattered by this attention, secondly, I am considered for the souls
a respectable man who begrudge them a pleasure to third, making this
single day, spent in joy and old habits, that the unfortunate souls
after all the , Which feel quite right for the purpose of such an
institution, such as purgatory is.

On such a festive day I go then covered by the crowd. Sometimes you can see me indeed, a thousand-voiced
"Vivat the Lord devil! Vive le diable!" happy then my landesvaeterliches Heart, but I know well
that it is enforced no less than an H urra in the upper world; because they think I push more
if they do not scream.

In my incognito I then visit the various groups. Tout comme chez vous, my Gentlemen, just a bit grotesque,
coffee companies, tea of ​​all varieties, diplomatic, military, theological, economic state, health
clubs can be found, such as by natural Instinct together make a good
day and lead to amusing conversations, which, if I wanted to share
it, on some recent event and a pretty light time of older would take.

Once I entered a room of the Cafe de Londres (because, by the way, it is this day everything
in grand style and maximum elegant), I met three young men, but through your appearance immediately
aroused my curiosity and me when they brought up for discussion should come together to promise
not seemed little entertainment. I transformed Therefore, my suit in the costume of a nimble waiter
and stood in the hall to the Rulers to use.

Two of these young people is about a game of pool. I marked them and looked at me while the third
one.

He was negligent leaning back in a spacious armchair, His legs were resting on a small chair in
front of him, his left hand played neglectful with a riding crop, his right arm supported the
chin. A beautiful head!

His face elongated and very pale. The forehead high and free, light brown, well-coiffed Hair around,
bent nose, and pointed, shaped like wax in white, thin lips and pulled pleasant, the blue eyes and
bright, but usually cold and without any interest slowly over the objects hung conductive. All
this and a fine hat, close up as below, pressured neglectful to an ear, let me suggest an Englishman.
Be very fine, dazzling white linen, the chosen, very simple clothes
could only be a gentleman, and indeed belong in the highest ranks.

I looked at my list and found that it was Lord Robert Fotherhill. He waved as I looked at
him so, with his eyes, because he probably was too inconvenient to call. I rushed to him and put
on his orders large glass of rum, a Havana cigar and a lighted candle in front of Him.

The other two men, however, had finished their game and approached the table, on which the Englishman
was sitting, I quickly glanced at my list and was told that was a one young Frenchman, the Marquis
de Lasulot, the other a Garnmacher Baron, a German.

The Frenchman was a small, stocky, affable males. His black hair and thick-haired, black whiskers
were very pretty with a slightly burnt complexion, bright red Cheeks
and moving, friendly black eyes, full lips and to the well-fed Chin
pulled that beautiful, inimitable blue, which should please the ladies
so well and is found in England and Germany is by far less than in
southern states, because Here the dark beard to be more dense and
usually sooner than there.

Apparently a Incroyable of the Chaussee d'Antin! The elegant negligee, as to the slightest little thing
out of the wayward taste of Paris for four months (as long liked
the young man wanted to be already dead).

Assisted by the graceful negligence umgebundenen East Indian scarf, the little pale red scarf
with a needle, a la Duc de Berry held together, down to the spats, the one after that time
for three days inside buttoned, except for the shoes, to be considered
fashionable, great for on the tips of Incline to toe and without any
sales to be had, I say, except for those little things the uninitiated,
a minor and miserable one, the sufficiency in the mysteries introduced
is important and essential are considered necessary, he was conscientious
and after taste for the latest attracted the morning.

He appeared just before his Jean pressured the reins of his convertible in the hand Whip of polished
whalebone hardly be leaning in the corner of the car and now have be flown in in my cafe to provide
more to be seen than to see, talk more about, to listen as.

He absconds lorgnettierte the gentleman in the chair seemed to adapt
to the uncertain my glass of rum and the smoke machine, that had the
right to relieve a little curled, but none the less to the side of
His Lordship and began to speak:

"Will you see the ball tonight,
my Lord, give us the Monseigneur le diable: will many women are there,
sir?

I ask, I ask you, because I have little acquaintance here.

"Sir may I might offer my car to both of us to lead? It is a very respectable thing, this car,
I have the honor to assure you, sir, he has cost me at Latonnier four months ago, eighteen hundred
francs. Sir, you need take no servant, if I have the honor to accompany you, my Jean is a servant
of a miracle guy. "

So it went at a gallop over the tongue of the Incroyable.

  His Lordship seemed by the way not much to build it.

He stared at the first words of the French, taught Then head a little
on in order to clear his right hand, seized with this - the first
Movement for half an hour - the goblet, sipping some rum trains, smoking
comfortably his cigar, put his head back on the right hand and seemed
to the French people with more the eye than the ear to listen and
respond in this manner to do, for he replied not a syllable on the
invitation of the French talkative and seemed, like his compatriot
Shakespeare said,

"The double teeth gate"

have laid before his speech
organs. Our own prayers alone are availing.
Our own "Desires-awake" and "Wet-eyes," our own aspirations after God, our own deep repentance
and sense of utter helplessness drives us to the Saviour, through whom ALONE we can find access
and adoption into the family of our Father who is in heaven.

The soul that communes with God attains an aptitude in prayer which no human learning can give;
devotional expressions become familiar; the Spirit of adoption leads them with deep solemnity
to approach the Infinite Eternal as a father. Private prayer is so essentially spiritual that
it cannot be reduced to writing. "A man that truly prays one prayer, shall after that never
be able to express with his mouth, or pen the unutterable desires, sense, affection, and longing
that went to God in that prayer". Prayer leads to "pure religion and undefiled," "to visit
the fatherless and widows in their affliction," and to preserve us "unspotted from the world"
(James 1:27). Blessed indeed are those who enjoy an abiding sense of the Divine presence; the
Christian's divine life may be measured by his being able to "pray without ceasing," to "seek
God's face continually." Men ought "always to pray," and to "continue in prayer." This does
not consist in perpetually repeating any form of prayer, but in that devotional frame of mind
which enables the soul to say, "For me to live is Christ." When David was compassed about with
the sorrows of hell, he at once ejaculates, "O Lord, I beseech thee deliver my soul." When
the disciples were in danger they did not recite the Lord's Prayer, or any other form, but
at once cried, "Lord, save us, we perish." Bunyan, speaking of private prayer, keenly inquires,
will God not hear thee "except thou comest before him with some eloquent oration?" "It is not,
as many take it to be, even a few babbling, prating, complimentary expressions, but a sensible
feeling in the heart." Sincerity and a dependence upon the mediatorial office of Christ is
all that God requires. "The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him--IN TRUTH" (Psa 145:18).
In all that related to the individual approach of the spirit to its heavenly Father, our pious
author offended not; but having enjoyed communion with God, he was, as all Christians are,
desirous of communion with the saints on earth, and in choosing the forms of public worship,
he gave great offence to many by rejecting the Book of Common Prayer.

To compel or to bribe persons to attend religious services is unjustifiable, and naturally
produces hypocrisy and persecution. So it was with the decree of King Darius, (Dan 6); and
so it has ever been with any royal or parliamentary interference with Christian liberty. "Who
art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth" (Rom
14:4). "EVERY ONE of us shall give account of himself to God" (Rom 14:12). All the solemnities
of the day of judgment point not merely to the right, but to the necessity of private decision
on all questions of faith, worship, and conduct, guided solely by the volume of inspiration.
Mansoul, in its regenerate state, is the temple which the Creator has chosen for his worship;
and it is infinitely more glorious than earthly edifices, which crumble into dust, while God's
temples will be ever glorious as eternity rolls on.

Bunyan, to the sixteenth year of his age, had, when he attended public worship, listened to
the Book of Common Prayer. At that time an Act of Parliament prohibited its use under severe
and unjust penalties, and ordered the services to be conducted by the rules of a directory.
In this an outline is given of public thanksgivings, confessions, and petitions; but no form
of prayer. In the preface the Puritans record their opinion, that the Liturgy of the Church
of England, notwithstanding all the pains and religious intentions of its compilers, hath proved
an offence; unprofitable ceremonies hath occasioned much mischief; its estimation hath been
raised by prelates, as if there were no other way of worship; making it an idol to the ignorant
and superstitious, a matter of endless strife, and of increasing an idle ministry. Bunyan had
weighed these observations, and recollected his former ignorance and superstition, when he
counted all things holy connected with the outward forms, and did "very devoutly say and sing
as others did."4 But when he arose from the long and dread conflict with sin, and entered upon
his Christian life, he decidedly preferred emancipation from forms of prayer, and treated them
with great severity. He considered that the most essential qualification for the Christian
ministry is the gift of prayer. Upon this subject learned and pious men have differed; but
the opinions of one so eminently pious, and so well-taught in the Scriptures, are worthy of
our careful investigation. Great allowances must be made for all that appears harsh in language,
because urbanity was not the fashion of that day in religious controversy. He had been most
cruelly imprisoned, with threats of transportation, and even an ignominious death, for refusing
conformity to the Book of Common Prayer. Being conscientiously and prayerfully decided in his
judgment, he set all these threats at defiance, and boldly, at the risk of his life, published
this treatise, while yet a prisoner in Bedford jail; and it is a clear, concise, and scriptural
discourse, setting forth his views upon this most important subject.

Any preconceived form would have fettered Bunyan's free spirit; he was a giant in prayer, and
commanded the deepest reverence while leading the public devotions of the largest congregations.
The great question as to public prayer is whether the minister should, relying upon Divine
assistance, offer up prayer to God in the Saviour's name, immediately conceived under a sense
of His presence; or whether it is better, as it is certainly easier, to read a form of prayer,
from time to time, skillfully arranged, and with every regard to beauty of language? Which
of these modes is most in accordance with the directions of the Sacred Scriptures, and most
likely to be attended with spiritual benefit to the assembled church? Surely this inquiry does
not involve the charge of schism or heresy upon either party. "Let every man be fully persuaded
in his own mind." Nor should such differences lead us to despise each other. Let our first
inquiry be, whether the Saviour intended a fixed form of prayer? And if so, did he give His
church any other than that most beautiful and comprehensive form called the Lord's Prayer?
And did he license any one, and if so, who, to alter, add to, or diminish from it? On the other
hand, should we conclude that "We know not what we should pray for as we ought, only as the
Spirit helpeth our infirmities," then must we rely, as Bunyan did, upon the promised aid of
that gracious Spirit. Blessed, indeed, are those whose intercourse with heaven sheds an influence
on their whole conduct, gives them abundance of well-arranged words in praying with their families
and with the sick or dejected, and--whose lives prove that they have been with Jesus, and are
taught by him, or who, in Scripture language, "pray with the spirit and with the understanding
also."

GEO. OFFOR.

ON PRAYING IN THE SPIRIT.

"I WILL PRAY WITH THE SPIRIT, AND I WILL PRAY WITH THE UNDERSTANDING ALSO"--(I Cor 14:15).

PRAYER is an ORDINANCE of God, and that to be used both in public and private; yea, such an
ordinance as brings those that have the spirit of supplication into great familiarity with
God; and is also so prevalent in action, that it getteth of God, both for the person that prayeth,
and for them that are prayed for, great things.5 It is the opener of the heart of God, and
a means by which the soul, though empty, is filled. By prayer the Christian can open his heart
to God, as to a friend, and obtain fresh testimony of God's friendship to him. I might spend
many words in distinguishing between public and private prayer; as also between that in the
heart, and that with the vocal voice. Something also might be spoken to distinguish between
the gifts and graces of prayer; but eschewing this method, my business shall be at this time
only to show you the very heart of prayer, without which, all your lifting up, both of hands,
and eyes, and voices, will be to no purpose at all. "I will pray with the Spirit."

The method that I shall go on in at this time shall be, FIRST. To show you what true prayer
is. SECOND. To show you what it is to pray with the Spirit. THIRD. What it is to pray with
the Spirit and understanding also. And so, FOURTHLY. To make some short use and application
of what shall be spoken.

WHAT PRAYER IS.

FIRST, What [true] prayer is. Prayer is a sincere, sensible, affectionate pouring out of the
heart or soul to God, through Christ, in the strength and assistance of the Holy Spirit, for
such things as God hath promised, or according to the Word, for the good of the church, with
submission, in faith, to the will of God.

In this description are these seven things. First, It is a sincere; Second, A sensible; Third,
An affectionate, pouring out of the soul to God, through Christ; Fourth, By the strength or
assistance of the Spirit; Fifth, For such things as God hath promised, or, according to his
word; Sixth, For the good of the church; Seventh, With submission in faith to the will of God.

First. For the first of these, it is a SINCERE pouring out of the soul to God. Sincerity is
such a grace as runs through all the graces of God in us, and through all the actings of a
Christian, and hath the sway in them too, or else their actings are not any thing regarded
of God, and so of and in prayer, of which particularly David speaks, when he mentions prayer.
"I cried unto him," the Lord "with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. If I regard
iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear" my prayer (Psa 66:17,18). Part of the exercise
of prayer is sincerity, without which God looks not upon it as prayer in a good sense (Psa
16:1-4). Then "ye shall seek me and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart"
(Jer 29:12-13). The want of this made the Lord reject their prayers in Hosea 7:14, where he
saith, "They have not cried unto me with their heart," that is, in sincerity, "when they howled
upon their beds." But for a pretence, for a show in hypocrisy, to be seen of men, and applauded
for the same, they prayed. Sincerity was that which Christ commended in Nathaniel, when he
was under the fig tree. "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile." Probably this good
man was pouring out of his soul to God in prayer under the fig tree, and that in a sincere
and unfeigned spirit before the Lord. The prayer that hath this in it as one of the principal
ingredients, is the prayer that God looks at. Thus, "The prayer of the upright is his delight"
(Prov 15:8).

And why must sincerity be one of the essentials of prayer which is accepted of God, but because
sincerity carries the soul in all simplicity to open its heart to God, and to tell him the
case plainly, without equivocation; to condemn itself plainly, without dissembling; to cry
to God heartily, without complimenting. "I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus;
Thou has chastised me, and I was chastised, as a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke" (Jer 31:18).
Sincerity is the same in a corner alone, as it is before the face of the world. It knows not
how to wear two vizards, one for an appearance before men, and another for a short snatch in
a corner; but it must have God, and be with him in the duty of prayer. It is not lip-labour
that it doth regard, for it is the heart that God looks at, and that which sincerity looks
at, and that which prayer comes from, if it be that prayer which is accompanied with sincerity.

Second. It is a sincere and SENSIBLE pouring out of the heart or soul. It is not, as many take
it to be, even a few babbling, prating, complimentary expressions, but a sensible feeling there
is in the heart. Prayer hath in it a sensibleness of diverse things; sometimes sense of sin,
sometimes of mercy received, sometimes of the readiness of God to give mercy, &c.

1. A sense of the want of mercy, by reason of the danger of sin. The soul, I say, feels, and
from feeling sighs, groans, and breaks at the heart. For right prayer bubbleth out of the heart
when it is overpressed with grief and bitterness, as blood is forced out of the flesh by reason
of some heavy burden that lieth upon it (I Sam 1:10; Psa 69:3). David roars, cries, weeps,
faints at heart, fails at the eyes, loseth his moisture, &c., (Psa 38:8-10). Hezekiah mourns
like a dove (Isa 38:14). Ephraim bemoans himself (Jer 31:18). Peter weeps bitterly (Matt 26:75).
Christ hath strong cryings and tears (Heb 5:7). And all this from a sense of the justice of
God, the guilt of sin, the pains of hell and destruction. Then cried I unto the Lord (Psa 116:3,4).
And in another place, "My sore ran in the night" (Psa 77:2). Again, "I am bowed down greatly;
I go mourning all the day long" (Psa 38:6). In all these instances, and in hundreds more that
might be named, you may see that prayer carrieth in it a sensible feeling disposition, and
that first from a sense of sin.

2. Sometimes there is a sweet sense of mercy received; encouraging, comforting, strengthening,
enlivening, enlightening mercy, &c. Thus David pours out his soul, to bless, and praise, and
admire the great God for his loving-kindness to such poor vile wretches. And thus is the prayer
of saints sometimes turned into praise and thanksgiving, and yet are prayers still. This is
a mystery; God's people pray with their praises, as it is written, "Be careful for nothing,
but in every thing by prayer, and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made
known unto God" (Phil 4:6). A sensible thanksgiving, for mercies received, is a mighty prayer
in the sight of God; it prevails with him unspeakably.

3. In prayer there is sometimes in the soul a sense of mercy to be received. This again sets
the soul all on a flame. "Thou, O lord of hosts," saith David, "hast revealed to thy servant,
saying I will build thee an house; therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray--unto
thee" (II Sam 7:27). This provoked Jacob, David, Daniel, with others--even a sense of mercies
to be received--which caused them, not by fits and starts, nor yet in a foolish frothy way,
to babble over a few words written in a paper; but mightily, fervently, and continually, to
groan out their conditions before the Lord, as being sensible, sensible, I say, of their wants,
their misery, and the willingness of God to show mercy (Gen 32:10,11; Dan 9:3,4).

A good sense of sin, and the wrath of God, with some encouragement from God to come unto him,
is a better Common-prayer-book than that which is taken out of the Papistical mass-book,7 being
the scraps and fragments of the devices of some popes, some friars, and I wot not what.

Third. Prayer is a sincere, sensible, and an AFFECTIONATE pouring out of the soul to God. O!
the heat, strength, life, vigour, and affection, that is in right prayer! "As the hart panteth
after the water-brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God" (Psa 42:1). "I have longed after
thy precepts" (Psa 119:40). "I have longed for thy salvation" (ver 174). (Psa 84:2). "My soul
breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times" (Psa 119:20). Mark ye
here, "My soul longeth," it longeth, it longeth, &c. O what affection is here discovered in
prayer! The like you have in Daniel. "O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do;
defer not, for thine own sake, O my God" (Dan 9:19). Every syllable carrieth a mighty vehemency
in it. This is called the fervent, or the working prayer, by James. And so again, "And being
in an agony, he prayed more earnestly" (Luke 22:44). Or had his affections more and more drawn
out after God for his helping hand. O! How wide are the most of men with their prayers from
this prayer, that is, PRAYER in God's account! Alas! The greatest part of men make no conscience
at all of the duty; and as for them that do, it is to be feared that many of them are very
great strangers to a sincere, sensible, and affectionate pouring out their hearts or souls
to God; but even content themselves with a little lip-labour and bodily exercise, mumbling
over a few imaginary prayers. When the affections are indeed engaged in prayer, then, then
the whole man is engaged, and that in such sort, that the soul will spend itself to nothing,
as it were, rather than it will go without that good desired, even communion and solace with
Christ. And hence it is that the saints have spent their strengths, and lost their lives, rather
than go without the blessing (Psa 69:3; 38:9,10; Gen 32:24,26).

All this is too, too evident by the ignorance, profaneness, and spirit of envy, that reign
in the hearts of those men that are so hot for the forms, and not the power of praying. Scarce
one of forty among them know what it is to be born again, to have communion with the Father
through the Son; to feel the power of grace sanctifying their hearts: but for all their prayers,
they still live cursed, drunken, whorish, and abominable lives, full of malice, envy, deceit,
persecuting of the dear children of God. O what a dreadful after-clap is coming upon them!
which all their hypocritical assembling themselves together, with all their prayers, shall
never be able to help them against, or shelter them from.

Again, It is a pouring out of the heart or soul. There is in prayer an unbosoming of a man's
self, an opening of the heart to God, an affectionate pouring out of the soul in requests,
sighs, and groans. "All my desire is before thee," saith David, "and my groaning is not hid
from thee" (Psa 38:9). And again, "My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall
I come and appear before God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me" (Psa
42:2,4). Mark, "I pour out my soul." It is an expression signifying, that in prayer there goeth
the very life and whole strength to God. As in another place, "Trust in him at all times; ye
people,--pour out your heart before him" (Psa 62:8). This is the prayer to which the promise
is made, for the delivering of a poor creature out of captivity and thralldom. "If from thence
thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart
and with all thy soul" (Deut 4:29).

Again, It is a pouring out of the heart or soul TO GOD. This showeth also the excellency of
the spirit of prayer. It is the great God to which it retires. "When shall I come and appear
before God?" And it argueth, that the soul that thus prayeth indeed, sees an emptiness in all
things under heaven; that in God alone there is rest and satisfaction for the soul. "Now she
that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God" (I Tim 5:5). Be thou my strong habitation,
whereunto I may continually resort:--for thou art my rock and my fortress; deliver me, O my
God,--out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. For thou art my hope, O Lord God, thou
art my trust from my youth" (Psa 71:1-5). Many in a wording way speak of God; but right prayer
makes God his hope, stay, and all. Right prayer sees nothing substantial, and worth the looking
after, but God. And that, as I said before, it doth in a sincere, sensible, and affectionate way.

Again, It is a sincere, sensible, affectionate pouring out of the heart or soul to God, THROUGH
CHRIST. This through Christ must needs be added, or else it is to be questioned, whether it
be prayer, though in appearance it be never so eminent or eloquent.

Christ is the way through whom the soul hath admittance to God, and without whom it is impossible
that so much as one desire should come into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth (John 14:6). "If
ye shall ask anything in my name"; "whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, I will do
it" (John 14:13,14). This was Daniel's way in praying for the people of God; he did it in the
name of Christ. "Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his supplications,
and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord's sake" (Dan
9:17). And so David, "For thy name's sake," that is, for thy Christ's sake, "pardon mine iniquity,
for it is great" (Psa 25:11). But now, it is not every one that maketh mention of Christ's
name in prayer, that doth indeed, and in truth, effectually pray to God in the name of Christ,
or through him. This coming to God through Christ is the hardest part that is found in prayer.
A man may more easily be sensible of his works, ay, and sincerely too desire mercy, and yet
not be able to come to God by Christ. That man that comes to God by Christ, he must first have
the knowledge of him; "for he that cometh to God, must believe that he is" (Heb 11:6). And
so he that comes to God through Christ, must be enabled to know Christ. Lord, saith Moses,
"show me now thy way, that I may know thee" (Exo 33:13).

This Christ, none but the Father can reveal (Matt 11:27). And to come through Christ, is for
the soul to be enabled of God to shroud itself under the shadow of the Lord Jesus, as a man
shroudeth himself under a thing for safeguard (Matt 16:16).8 Hence it is that David so often
terms Christ his shield, buckler, tower, fortress, rock of defence, &c., (Psa 18:2; 27:1; 28:1).
Not only because by him he overcame his enemies, but because through him he found favour with
God the Father. And so he saith to Abraham, "Fear not, I am thy shield," &c., (Gen 15:1). The
man then that comes to God through Christ, must have faith, by which he puts on Christ, and
in him appears before God. Now he that hath faith is born of God, born again, and so becomes
one of the sons of God; by virtue of which he is joined to Christ, and made a member of him
(John 3:5,7; 1:12). And therefore, secondly he, as a member of Christ, comes to God; I say,
as a member of him, so that God looks on that man as a part of Christ, part of his body, flesh,
and bones, united to him by election, conversion, illumination, the Spirit being conveyed into
the heart of that poor man by God (Eph 5:30). So that now he comes to God in Christ's merits,
in his blood, righteousness, victory, intercession, and so stands before him, being "accepted
in his Beloved" (Eph 1:6). And because this poor creature is thus a member of the Lord Jesus,
and under this consideration hath admittance to come to God; therefore, by virtue of this union
also, is the Holy Spirit conveyed into him, whereby he is able to pour out himself, to wit,
his soul, before God, with his audience. And this leads me to the next, or fourth particular.

Fourth. For these things do so depend one upon another, that it is impossible that it should
be prayer, without there be a joint concurrence of them; for though it be never so famous,
yet without these things, it is only such prayer as is rejected of God. For without a sincere,
sensible, affectionate pouring out of the heart to God, it is but lip-labour; and if it be
not through Christ, it falleth far short of ever sounding well in the ears of God. So also,
if it be not in the strength and assistance of the Spirit, it is but like the sons of Aaron,
offering with strange fire (Lev 10:1,2). But I shall speak more to this under the second head;
and therefore in the meantime, that which is not petitioned through the teaching and assistance
of the Spirit, it is not possible that it should be "according to the will of God" (Rom 8:26,27).

Fifth. Prayer it is, when it is within the compass of God's Word; and it is blasphemy, or at
best vain babbling, when the petition is beside the book. David therefore still in his prayer
kept his eye on the Word of God. "My soul," saith he, "cleaveth to the dust; quicken me according
to thy word." And again, "My soul melteth for heaviness, strengthen thou me according unto
thy word" (Psa 119:25-28; see also 41, 42, 58, 65, 74, 81, 82, 107, 147, 154, 169, 170). And,
"remember thy word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope" (ver 49). And
indeed the Holy Ghost doth not immediately quicken and stir up the heart of the Christian without,
but by, with, and through the Word, by bringing that to the heart, and by opening of that,
whereby the man is provoked to go to the Lord, and to tell him how it is with him, and also
to argue, and supplicate, according to the Word; thus it was with Daniel, that mighty prophet
of the Lord. He understanding by books that the captivity of the children of Israel was hard
at an end; then, according unto that word, he maketh his prayer to God. "I Daniel," saith he,
"understood by books," viz., the writings of Jeremiah, "the number of the years whereof the
word of the Lord came to Jeremiah,--that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations
of Jerusalem. (Dan 9:2,3). So that I say, as the Spirit is the helper and the governor of the
soul, when it prayeth according to the will of God; so it guideth by and according to, the
Word of God and his promise. Hence it is that our Lord Jesus Christ himself did make a stop,
although his life lay at stake for it. I could now pray to my Father, and he should give me
more than twelve legions of angels; but how then must the scripture be fulfilled that thus
it must be? (Matt 26:53,54). As who should say, Were there but a word for it in the scripture,
I should soon be out of the hands of mine enemies, I should be helped by angels; but the scripture
will not warrant this kind of praying, for that saith otherwise. It is a praying then according
to the Word and promise. The Spirit by the Word must direct, as well in the manner, as in the
matter of prayer. "I will pray with the Spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also"
(I Cor 14:15). But there is no understanding without the Word. For if they reject the word
of the Lord, "what wisdom is in them?" (Jer 8:9).

Sixth. FOR THE GOOD OF THE CHURCH. This clause reacheth in whatsoever tendeth either to the
honour of God, Christ's advancement, or his people's benefit. For God, and Christ, and his
people are so linked together that if the good of the one be prayed for, to wit, the church,
the glory of God, and advancement of Christ, must needs be included. For as Christ is in the
Father, so the saints are in Christ; and he that toucheth the saints, toucheth the apple of
God's eye; and therefore pray for the peace of Jerusalem, and you pray for all that is required
of you. For Jerusalem will never be in perfect peace until she be in heaven; and there is nothing
that Christ doth more desire than to have her there. That also is the place that God through
Christ hath given to her. He then that prayeth for the peace and good of Zion, or the church,
doth ask that in prayer which Christ hath purchased with his blood; and also that which the
Father hath given to him as the price thereof. Now he that prayeth for this, must pray for
abundance of grace for the church, for help against all its temptations; that God would let
nothing be too hard for it; and that all things might work together for its good, that God
would keep them blameless and harmless, the sons of God, to his glory, in the midst of a crooked
and perverse nation. And this is the substance of Christ's own prayer in John 17. And all Paul's
prayers did run that way, as one of his prayers doth eminently show. (Phil 1:9-11). But a short
prayer, you see, and yet full of good desires for the church, from the beginning to the end;
that it may stand and go on, and that in the most excellent frame of spirit, even without blame,
sincere, and without offence, until the day of Christ, let its temptations or persecutions
be what they will (Eph 1:16-21; 3:14-19; Col 1:9-13).

Seventh. And because, as I said, prayer doth SUBMIT TO THE WILL OF GOD, and say, Thy will be
done, as Christ hath taught us (Matt 6:10); therefore the people of the Lord in humility are
to lay themselves and their prayers, and all that they have, at the foot of their God, to be
disposed of by him as he in his heavenly wisdom seeth best. Yet not doubting but God will answer
the desire of his people that way that shall be most for their advantage and his glory. When
the saints therefore do pray with submission to the will of God, it doth not argue that they
are to doubt or question God's love and kindness to them. But because they at all times are
not so wise, but that sometimes Satan may get that advantage of them, as to tempt them to pray
for that which, if they had it, would neither prove to God's glory nor his people's good. "Yet
this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will,
he heareth us; and if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the
petitions that we desired of him," that is, we asking in the Spirit of grace and supplication
(I John 5:14,15). For, as I said before, that petition that is not put up in and through the
Spirit, it is not to be answered, because it is beside the will of God. For the Spirit only
knoweth that, and so consequently knoweth how to pray according to that will of God. "For what
man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things
of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God" (I Cor 2:11). But more of this hereafter. Thus
you see, first, what prayer is. Now to proceed.

[WHAT IT IS TO PRAY WITH THE SPIRIT.]

SECOND. I will pray with the Spirit. Now to pray with the Spirit--for that is the praying man,
and none else, so as to be accepted of God--it is for a man, as aforesaid, sincerely and sensibly,
with affection, to come to God through Christ, &c.; which sincere, sensible, and affectionate
coming must be by the working of God's Spirit.

There is no man nor church in the world that can come to God in prayer, but by the assistance
of the Holy Spirit. "For through Christ we all have access by one Spirit unto the Father" (Eph
2:18). Wherefore Paul saith, "For we know not what we should pray for as we ought; but the
Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And he that
searcheth the hearts, knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession
for the saints according to the will of God" (Rom 8:26,27). And because there is in this scripture
so full a discovery of the spirit of prayer, and of man's inability to pray without it; therefore
I shall in a few words comment upon it.

"For we." Consider first the person speaking, even Paul, and, in his person, all the apostles.
We apostles, we extraordinary officers, the wise master-builders, that have some of us been
caught up into paradise (Rom 15:16; I Cor 3:10; II Cor 12:4). "We know not what we should pray
for." Surely there is no man but will confess, that Paul and his companions were as able to
have done any work for God, as any pope or proud prelate in the church of Rome, and could as
well have made a Common Prayer Book as those who at first composed this; as being not a whit
behind them either in grace or gifts.9

"For we know not what we should pray for." We know not the matter of the things for which we
should pray, neither the object to whom we pray, nor the medium by or through whom we pray;
none of these things know we, but by the help and assistance of the Spirit. Should we pray
for communion with God through Christ? should we pray for faith, for justification by grace,
and a truly sanctified heart? none of these things know we. But here, alas! the apostles speak
of inward and spiritual things, which the world knows not (Isa 29:11).

Again, as they know not the matter, &c., of prayer, without the help of the Spirit; so neither
know they the manner thereof without the same; and therefore he adds, "We know not what we
should pray for as we ought"; but the Spirit helpeth our infirmities, with sighs and groans
which cannot be uttered. Mark here, they could not so well and so fully come off in the manner
of performing this duty, as these in our days think they can.

The apostles, when they were at the best, yea, when the Holy Ghost assisted them, yet then
they were fain to come off with sighs and groans, falling short of expressing their mind, but
with sighs and groans which cannot be uttered.

But here now, the wise men of our days are so well skilled as that they have both the manner
and matter of their prayers at their finger-ends; setting such a prayer for such a day, and
that twenty years before it comes. One for Christmas, another for Easter, and six days after
that. They have also bounded how many syllables must be said in every one of them at their
public exercises. For each saint's day, also, they have them ready for the generations yet
unborn to say. They can tell you, also, when you shall kneel, when you shall stand, when you
should abide in your seats, when you should go up into the chancel, and what you should do
when you come there. All which the apostles came short of, as not being able to compose so
profound a manner; and that for this reason included in this scripture, because the fear of
God tied them to pray as they ought.

"For we know not what we should pray for as we ought." Mark this, "as we ought." For the not
thinking of this word, or at least the not understanding it in the spirit and truth of it,
hath occasioned these men to devise, as Jeroboam did, another way of worship, both for matter
and manner, than is revealed in the Word of God (I Kings 12:26-33). But, saith Paul, we must
pray as we ought; and this WE cannot do by all the art, skill, and cunning device of men or
angels. "For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit"; nay, further,
it must be "the Spirit ITSELF" that helpeth our infirmities; not the Spirit and man's lusts;
what man of his own brain may imagine and devise, is one thing, and what they are commanded,
and ought to do, is another. Many ask and have not, because they ask amiss; and so are never
the nearer the enjoying of those things they petition for (James 4:3). It is not to pray at
random that will put off God, or cause him to answer. While prayer is making, God is searching
the heart, to see from what root and spirit it doth arise (I John 5:14). "And he that searcheth
the heart knoweth," that is, approveth only, the meaning "of the Spirit, because he maketh
intercession for the saints according to the will of God." For in that which is according to
his will only, he heareth us, and in nothing else. And it is the Spirit only that can teach
us so to ask; it only being able to search out all things, even the deep things of God. Without
which Spirit, though we had a thousand Common Prayer Books, yet we know not what we should
pray for as we ought, being accompanied with those infirmities that make us absolutely incapable
of such a work. Which infirmities, although it is a hard thing to name them all, yet some of
them are these that follow.

First. Without the Spirit man is so infirm that he cannot, with all other means whatsoever,
be enabled to think one right saving thought of God, of Christ, or of his blessed things; and
therefore he saith of the wicked, "God is not in all his thoughts," (Psa 10:4); unless it be
that they imagine him altogether such a one as themselves (Psa 50:21). For "every imagination
of the thoughts of his heart was only evil," and that "continually" (Gen 6:5; 8:21). They then
not being able to conceive aright of God to whom they pray, of Christ through whom they pray,
nor of the things for which they pray, as is before showed, how shall they be able to address
themselves to God, without the Spirit help this infirmity? Peradventure you will say, By the
help of the Common Prayer Book; but that cannot do it, unless it can open the eyes, and reveal
to the soul all these things before touched. Which that it cannot, it is evident; because that
is the work of the Spirit only. The Spirit itself is the revealer of these things to poor souls,
and that which doth give us to understand them; wherefore Christ tells his disciples, when
he promised to send the Spirit, the Comforter, "He shall take of mine and show unto you"; as
if he had said, I know you are naturally dark and ignorant as to the understanding any of my
things; though ye try this course and the other, yet your ignorance will still remain, the
veil is spread over your heart, and there is none can take away the same, nor give you spiritual
understanding but the Spirit. The Common Prayer Book will not do it, neither can any man expect
that it should be instrumental that way, it being none of God's ordinances; but a thing since
the Scriptures were written, patched together one piece at one time, and another at another;
a mere human invention and institution, which God is so far from owning of, that he expressly
forbids it, with any other such like, and that by manifold sayings in his most holy and blessed
Word. (See Mark 7:7,8, and Col 2:16-23; Deut 12:30-32; Prov 30:6; Deut 4:2; Rev 22:18). For
right prayer must, as well in the outward part of it, in the outward expression, as in the
inward intention, come from what the soul doth apprehend in the light of the Spirit; otherwise
it is condemned as vain and an abomination, because the heart and tongue do not go along jointly
in the same, neither indeed can they, unless the Spirit help our infirmities (Mark 7; Prov
28:9; Isa 29:13). (Psa 51:15). I suppose there is none can imagine but that David could speak
and express himself as well as others, nay, as any in our generation, as is clearly manifested
by his word and his works. Nevertheless when this good man, this prophet, comes into God's
worship, then the Lord must help, or he can do nothing. He could not speak one right word,
except the Spirit itself gave utterance. "For we know not what we should pray for as we ought,
but the Spirit itself helpeth our infirmities." But,

Second. It must be a praying with the Spirit, that is, the effectual praying; because without
that, as men are senseless, so hypocritical, cold, and unseemly in their prayers; and so they,
with their prayers, are both rendered abominable to God (Matt 23:14; Mark 12:40; Luke 18:11,
12; Isa 58:2, 3). It is not the excellency of the voice, nor the seeming affection, and earnestness
of him that prayeth, that is anything regarded of God without it. For man, as man, is so full
of all manner of wickedness, that as he cannot keep a word, or thought, so much less a piece
of prayer clean, and acceptable to God through Christ; and for this cause the Pharisees, with
their prayers, were rejected. No question but they were excellently able to express themselves
in words, and also for length of time, too, they were very notable; but they had not the Spirit
of Jesus Christ to help them, and therefore they did what they did with their infirmities or
weaknesses only, and so fell short of a sincere, sensible, affectionate pouring out of their
souls to God, through the strength of the Spirit. That is the prayer that goeth to heaven,
that is sent thither in the strength of the Spirit. For,

Third. Nothing but the Spirit can show a man clearly his misery by nature, and so put a man
into a posture of prayer. Talk is but talk, as we use to say, and so it is but mouth-worship,
if there be not a sense of misery, and that effectually too. O the cursed hypocrisy that is
in most hearts, and that accompanieth many thousands of praying men that would be so looked
upon in this day, and all for want of a sense of their misery! But now the Spirit, that will
sweetly show the soul its misery, where it is, and what is like to become of it, also the intolerableness
of that condition. For it is the Spirit that doth effectually convince of sin and misery, without
the Lord Jesus, and so puts the soul into a sweet, sensible, affectionate way of praying to
God according to his word (John 16:7-9).

Fourth. If men did see their sins, yet without the help of the Spirit they would not pray.
For they would run away from God, with Cain and Judas, and utterly despair of mercy, were it
not for the Spirit. When a man is indeed sensible of his sin, and God's curse, then it is a
hard thing to persuade him to pray; for, saith his heart, "There is no hope," it is in vain
to seek God (Jer 2:25; 18:12). I am so vile, so wretched, and so cursed a creature, that I
shall never be regarded! Now here comes the Spirit, and stayeth the soul, helpeth it to hold
up its face to God, by letting into the heart some small sense of mercy to encourage it to
go to God, and hence it is called "the Comforter" (John 14:26).

Fifth. It must be in or with the Spirit; for without that no man can know how he should come
to God the right way. Men may easily say they come to God in his Son: but it is the hardest
thing of a thousand to come to God aright and in his own way, without the Spirit. It is "the
Spirit" that "searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God" (I Cor 2:10). And, He shall
take of mine, and "show it unto you" (John 16:14).

Sixth. Because without the Spirit, though a man did see his misery, and also the way to come
to God; yet he would never be able to claim a share in either God, Christ, or mercy, with God's
approbation. O how great a task is it, for a poor soul that becomes sensible of sin and the
wrath of God, to say in faith, but this one word, "Father!" From their Sparbuechse namely the
novels were purchased. If one had read, so I had it, read it was also he then returned to the
lending library and sought out the books there are that either Standing back no more, or had become
so fat from reading was that it properly myself anglaenzte n. Such are the true to our liking,
I thought, and certainly it was an 'R inaldo inaldin R i', 'D omschuet z', an 'old U N eberallund
any 'or else one of our favorites.

At home, I tied it up in an old Latin writings, for Amalie was very clean educated and would
have if the interior of the novel was not always very pure, but never with bare fingers touched
the rich luster of their favorites. I respectfully carried him then the garden and handed over
to him, and I never received it back without me Amalie the most beautiful places with a pin would
have known about knitting. Sun and read we loved, our love was based on the model that we were
reading, and soon she was tenderly and coyly, sometimes fiery and stormy, indeed, occurred when
jealousy, and gave we are all possible pains, an object, a cause for our nameless accident to
contrive.

My usual ratio to the rich merchant's daughter, incidentally, was that of a precious boy of dark birth,
who lives in the courtyard of a large count or princes, an unfortunate Passion for the beautiful
daughter of the house and finally gets from her secret, but intimate love in receiving. And
how vividly did Amalie to give their role as benevolent, how condescending it was against me!
How she loved the beautiful, noble knight boy which no obstacle was too difficult to get to
her, the wide moat (the Entenpfuetze in our yard) forded, the battlements of the wall (the fence)
ascended to her in Garden room (the mossy bank under the acacias) to sneak. One thousand daggers
(the nails on the fence that my trousers were very dangerous), lurking one thousand daggers
at him, but love him undamaged leads to the feet of his mistress.

The only accident of my love, was that we really had no accident. Although there it here and there
border disputes between the poor knight (my father) and the rich Princes (the clerk), namely
when one of our hinuebergeflogen chickens in his garden was and went for a walk on its hotbeds,
or there was even a real feud, if the Fuerst a herald (his clerks) to remind us herueberschickte
and to let the tribute (Because my father is a very large account in the account book was the princes).
But this Everything was no harassing misfortune for our love and not served to our Situation
to make even more romantic.

The only consequence that came out of my life and my love was my sad misfortune, always among
the last of my class to be and capable of blows to the old Rector get, but also taught about
it and I comforted my mistress. I discovered them namely, that the Duke (the Rector) eldest prince
wooed for her love and to love from me the boy had refused, he had certainly found our love and
the reason for his dismissal and the old father, the headmaster, taught that his approach on such
an unworthy manner revenge on me. I had the best on their faith, but knew well, where the blows
came from; the old Duke knew I was not learning the irregular Greek verbs, and for that I was beaten.

So I became fifteen and fourteen years old lady, was untroubled until the latter Our love was
heaven, there occurred a sudden two Ungluecksfaelle, of which have been sufficient for one
would be to me from my herabzuschmettern heights.

It was the time when after the Treaty of Paris began the Fouque novels,
in my country Fashion to be. . .

"What is it, Fouque novels?" asked the Lord.

"These are light brown, religious stories, but by this definition, you are no longer as prior knowledge.
Mr. von Fouque is a pious knight who, because it no longer the time has come to joust with sword and
lance, riding with a pen in the barriers and fights like a huge Waehringer. He's a bit crude
and vulgar Middle Ages but rather modernized embalmed today's fashion world in some religious
mysticism and pushed back by five hundred years. Now everything tastes very sweet and looks
very graceful, dark-light-off, the Knights, of which we knew before anything else than they were
rough country squire, who sought religious and fine manners so little
than the Grosstuerke from the sixth commandment, appear here with
a charming courtesy, speak in fine phrases, are mainly religious and
kreuzglaeubi g.

The ladies are modern Schwaermerinnen only chaste,
pure, clothed with stiff collar and anything frilly chivalrous.

Even the noble steeds are brighter than today and have proper understanding, as well as the
wolf dogs and other such creatures. "

"Mon dieu! Such nonsense you read in Germany?" cried the Frenchman, and struck with wonder the hands
together.

"Yes, gentlemen, you read and admired. There was a time for us when we come back like this had
to admire everything about foreign nations, as we now, on our own glories limited, but not us
found that we could admire, as the tempi passati - that threw we
are with our habitual imitation zeal to these and all of them were
old German.

Many had not imagination enough to be very into that glorious past hineinzudenken, they generally
felt the need of manuals, which, like fashion magazines Recently, about customs and traditions
of our ancestors would have taught us, there was those pious knight on a second Orpheus, he
struck the strings, and there was a new Sex, the girls who were with the French garrisons become
somewhat frivolous, were discreet, chaste, pious lady, the young men took off their fashionable
coats, let hair and beard grow, put on their shirts half a yard of
linen, and 'Clothes make the man, 'says a proverb, probatum est: they
too were virtuous, brave and pious.

"

! Goddam you are right, I've seen those figures, "interrupted the Englishman; "Eight years ago
I made the big tour and came to Switzerland. Vierwaldstätter I let me see the site showing where
the Swiss have donated their republics. I met on the meadow a society that strange, half-modern,
early half of the dressing rooms Centuries seemed to have dressed himself. Five or six young men
sat and stood on the grass and looked with shining eyes out over the lake. They had wonderful Caps
on the head, were to be regarded almost like pancakes. Long flowing hair fell in picturesque Disorder
on back and shoulders, her neck she wore freely and had broad, delicately
embroidered Collar, who as now set out the ladies.

A skirt that apparently dressed today by a master, but was made according to ancient form, they
are not ill, he joined tightly around his body and showed everywhere the beautiful growth of
the young men. In strange contrast to wide trousers were of coarse linen. Their skirts looked
out threatening dagger handles, and in her hand she wore Beilstoecke,
approximately as the Roman lictors.

Not at all but rather wanted to go with this costume, that she had glasses on his nose and powerful
tobacco smoke.

I asked my guide, what would it be for a strange and fitting uniforms and whether they should perhaps
imagine a crew of grütli meadow. But he informed me that it would be moving students from Germany. Involuntarily,
I am inclined to the idea the knight-errant Don Quixote on, I got a laugh in my boat, and praised
my luck, on a space occupied by the raised memories that it evokes, too easily to dreamy Comparisons
executed such a grotesque appearance to have had from life. The young German reconciled myself
with it but again, for when my boat was hanging over the lake opened, they raised a four-part
singing in so sublime melody, with so worthy, poignant Phrases that
I thought them in the prejudice Abbate, which brought her suit in
me had.

"

"Well, there you are," continued the Baron Garnmacher, "so it seemed at that time under old
and young In Germany, I also had read novels Fouque, was a pious boy, was I like all my comrades,
and was my old German lady, the 'blissfully Maid', with one, chaste, intimate love lichen attached.
Amalie on the way, was the 'Z auberri n g ', the' F ahrten hiodolfs T 'and so not produce
the desired impression, they laughed The discreet, light brown, blue-eyed women, especially
the B erthavon L ight enrieth, and I praised Lafontaine and Langbein,
raunchy stories, which you one of her friends had slipped.

I was very honored by the German character which was rising in me than I her hearing would have
been, but the lascivious novels that fuel continued burning in the girl who , because for her
age she was already quite large, for a budding virgin, gave and short - there was a scene between
Joseph us, and I wrapped myself in my old German Rock Fouque and
my virtue, and fled from the temptations of the sirens, like my hero
Thiodolf front of the beautiful Zoe.

The result was that she despised me as an unworthy and the Prince, the Rector Son, gave her love.
Whether he studied with her long legs and Lafontaine, I do not know
to say, is only as far as I know, that he the prince, Amalia's father,
a few weeks later has whipped by hand from the garden.

I sat again on my Dachkaemmerlein had the Hebrew Bible and the Greek Irregular in front of me and
my novels on them. Some nights I have there hot tears cried and looked down through the blinds
in the garden, for the undisciplined Virgin should not behold my misery, it should be the
struggle between love and hate do not read on my face. I was firmly convinced that as unhappy
as I am not Man may be more, and at most hapless O ttovon T rautwang s when he lived in France with
his sensible, light-brown steed a cave, could perhaps have been so
full of grief as I am.

But the measure of my suffering was not full, you hear how 'from entwoelkter height' me second
thunder struck.

The old rector had given his students an essay on a topic in which we question should answer,
n M ann D wenwirfuerdengroesste eutschl andshalte n. It should be proven value in history, reasons
for and against given and everything will be settled fairly taught. I had, as I have already I noticed,
gentlemen, always a hard head, and essays with reasons were me always been contrary, I had
also always delivered mediocre or bad work. But for this work I was very excited, I felt a great
joy in me, my Thoughts to say about the great men of my country and
my ideals (and who has in these years such) to be able to put in the
proper light.

Historically, the thing should be written. What was easier for me than this? Now I first felt
the benefits of my eager reading. Where was one to which so many stories I had read? And who,
of any one of the stories these books into the hands took, who could be in doubt who the greatest
men of my country? Although I was not quite with myself in the pure to whom I should recognize
the crown. H a Spera S pada? It is true he was a brave man, the terror of his enemies, the love
his friends. But, as history says he was addicted to drinking heavily, and this was already
in a slag for his excellent character. A dolphder K ue hne, R D augrafvon Assel? He has a bit
more of a big man as terrible he chastised the priests! If only he does not walk in the history
of Rome and Buses would have to do, but this weakens but his majestic image. It is true, O
tto rautwangen T stands out as a star of the first magnitude in the history of Germany, I kept
thinking, but he does not seem to have been the biggest yet, though his Piety that is very set
in attack, every spell overcame.

Iceland is probably the German Empire, indeed, among all the German hero but none that the T hiodolf
enough water. As strong as Samson, harmless as a Dove, gentle as a lamb, in anger, a B erserke
r - it can not fail, he is the largest German.

I sat down and wrote down full enthusiasm that hierarchy. Probably ten times jumped I click, my heart
was too full, I could not say anything, the pen, the words failed I probably ten times, I read aloud to
me the most successful agencies. How sublime was it when I spoke of the strength of the Icelander,
as he tamed a wolf, as in Constantinople a horse only a little on the forehead and knocked
that it was dead on the spot, how generous disdain it all reward, yes, he rejected an imperial
throne to his true love to stay, how childish he is pious, though
he knew the Christian religion is not right; I described how beautiful
it all, yea, it had the heart of the old rector stir!

I could imagine how he read my work with increasing acclaim, as in the morning the class would come
to censor our essays. He certainly sends a mild, friendly glance at the last place where he
usually looked only like a roaring lions, then he read my work aloud, saying, Is it possible to
achieve better than to read something? And guess who made it! The latter should be the first. The
stone which the builders have rejected, is to be the cornerstone. Step forth, my son, Garnmachere!
I've always said you were a prayer, I could imagine that you study
with so much zeal stories?

Take out the price that you deserve. "

So he had to say he could not help it, without doing the glaring injustice. Eager wrote I now
my paper come clean. To show that I was also in the more recent stories was not inexperienced,
I said at the conclusion that after the invention of gunpowder eng chen A lcibiades and next to
him ermannvon H N ordenschil d for holding the greatest men. We can give you the R itter E uros,
which later did eSeller as D omschuetzmitseinen G such great attention, what factor are concerned,
the bravery, maybe put on the page, but there are those on both a
much higher position.

I brought triumphantly to the rector of the tower and he almost had
to laugh in your face, he said grumpily, "He will have a nice smear,
Garnmacher!"

'Read, and then - set up, I was proud of him and left him to answer.

If your native land, my lord, a question of price would be made about the worthy English Theologians,
and it would in a scholarly, well-larded with phrases answer the
merits the Vicar of Wakefield established, who would not laugh here?

If you, my dear Marquis, after the worthiest lady in the days of Louis XIV would ask, and praised
the new H eloise, one would not hold for a madman? Listen, what folly I had committed!

The Saturday on which we habitually censored our work, appeared at last. As often This day was
otherwise appeared, he had been my one day of the accident. Usually crept I am there with palpitations
to school, because I could be certain, blamed for poor work to be publicly vilified. But how
much proud I performed today, I had my best rock dressed, wearing
the most beautiful, finely embroidered collar, my flowing hair was
neatly parted and curled, and I looked handsome and confessed to me
that I was also in Exterior of the price of unworthy, what should
I advertise receiving today.

The rector began to censor the essays. How poor, obscure heroes had my Other students elected:
Hermann, Charles the Great, Emperor Henry, Luther, and the like -
he went through many, he did not always have to work.

Yes, it was obviously my hero He had saved up to last - as the best!

At last he rested for a moment, cleared his throat and took issue with rose-colored bedspread,
mine, at hand. My heart beat loudly with joy, I felt how my mouth forgiven a triumphant smile
was, but I had trouble with the modest Lobe look. The rector began: "And now I come to a work that
their peers does not have on Earth. I will read some passages from it! " He declaimed with uncommon
Pathos precisely those places of power, which I had written with such great enthusiasm. A roar of
laughter from more than forty throats interrupted every sentence, and when he finally came
to the conclusion that I omschuet with a bold twist to the terrible D zen had scattered some
flowers, rang Bravo! Ancora! and the tables crashing under the applause drumming fists of my
classmates. The rector nodded and went silent continued: 'It would be a successful satire
of the gentlemen spit and company, if not the author himself would
be a satire on mankind. Men
without understanding may say the same words in prayer as others do; but if there be an understanding
in the one, and none in the other, there is, O there is a mighty difference in speaking the
very same words! The one speaking from a spiritual understanding of those things that he in
words desires, and the other words it only, and there is all.

Second. Spiritual understanding espieth in the heart of God a readiness and willingness to
give those things to the soul that it stands in need of. David by this could guess at the very
thoughts of God towards him (Psa 40:5). And thus it was with the woman of Canaan; she did by
faith and a right understanding discern, beyond all the rough carriage of Christ, tenderness
and willingness in his heart to save, which caused her to be vehement and earnest, yea, restless,
until she did enjoy the mercy she stood in need of (Matt 15:22-28).

And understanding of the willingness that is in the heart of God to save sinners, there is
nothing will press the soul more to seek after God, and to cry for pardon, than it. If a man
should see a pearl worth an hundred pounds lie in a ditch, yet if he understood not the value
of it, he would lightly pass it by: but if he once get the knowledge of it, he would venture
up to the neck for it. So it is with souls concerning the things of God: if a man once get
an understanding of the worth of them, then his heart, nay, the very strength of his soul,
runs after them, and he will never leave crying till he have them. The two blind men in the
gospel, because they did certainly know that Jesus, who was going by them, was both able and
willing to heal such infirmities as they were afflicted with: therefore they cried, and the
more they were rebuked, the more they cried (Matt 20:29-31).

Third. The understanding being spiritually enlightened, hereby there is the way, as aforesaid,
discovered, through which the soul should come unto God; which gives great encouragement unto
it. It is else with a poor soul, as with one who hath a work to do, and if it be not done,
the danger is great; if it be done, so is the advantage. But he knows not how to begin, nor
how to proceed; and so, through discouragement, lets all alone, and runs the hazard.

Fourth. The enlightened understanding sees largeness enough in the promises to encourage it
to pray; which still adds to it strength to strength. As when men promise such and such things
to all that will come for them, it is great encouragement to those that know what promises
are made, to come and ask for them.

Fifth. The understanding being enlightened, way is made for the soul to come to God with suitable
arguments, sometimes in a way of expostulation, as Jacob (Gen 32:9). Sometimes in way of supplication,
yet not in a verbal way only, but even from the heart there is forced by the Spirit, through
the understanding, such effectual arguments as moveth the heart of God. When Ephraim gets a
right understanding of his own unseemly carriages towards the Lord, then he begins to bemoan
himself (Jer 31:18-20). And in bemoaning of himself, he used such arguments with the Lord,
that it affects his heart, draws out forgiveness, and makes Ephraim pleasant in his eyes through
Jesus Christ our Lord: "I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus," saith God, "Thou
hast chastised me, and I was chastised; as a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke; turn thou me,
and I shall be turned; for thou art the Lord my God. Surely after that I was turned, I repented,
and after that I was instructed," or had a right understanding of myself, "I smote upon my
thigh, I was ashamed; yea, even confounded; because I did bear the reproach of my youth." These
be Ephraim's complaints and bemoanings of himself; at which the Lord breaks forth into these
heart-melting expressions, saying, "Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he a pleasant child? For since
I spake against him, I do earnestly remember him still; therefore my bowels are troubled for
him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the Lord." Thus, you see, that as it is required
to pray with the Spirit, so it is to pray with the understanding also. And to illustrate what
hath been spoken by a similitude:--set the case, there should come two a-begging to your door;
the one is a poor, lame, wounded, and almost starved creature, the other is a healthful lusty
person; these two use the same words in their begging; the one saith he is almost starved,
so doth the other: but yet the man that is indeed the poor, lame, or maimed person, he speaks
with more sense, feeling, and understanding of the misery that is mentioned in their begging,
than the other can do; and it is discovered more by his affectionate speaking, his bemoaning
himself. His pain and poverty make him speak more in a spirit of lamentation than the other,
and he shall be pitied sooner than the other, by all those that have the least dram of natural
affection or pity. Just thus it is with God: there are some who out of custom and formality
go and pray; there are others who go in the bitterness of their spirits: the one he prays out
of bare notion and naked knowledge; the other hath his words forced from him by the anguish
of his soul. Surely that is the man that God will look at, "even to him that is poor," of an
humble "and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word" (Isa 66:2).

Sixth. An understanding well enlightened is of admirable use also, both as to the matter and
manner of prayer. He that hath his understanding well exercised, to discern between good and
evil, and in it placed a sense either of the misery of man, or the mercy of God; that soul
hath no need of the writings of other men to teach him by forms of prayer. For as he that feels
the pain needs not to be taught to cry O! even so he that hath his understanding opened by
the Spirit needs not so to be taught of other men's prayers, as that he cannot pray without
them. The present sense, feeling, and pressure that lieth upon his spirit, provokes him to
groan out his request unto the Lord. When David had the pains of hell catching hold on him,
and the sorrows of hell compassing him about, he needs not a bishop in a surplice to teach
him to say, "O Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul" (Psa 116:3, 4). Or to look into a book,
to teach him in a form to pour out his heart before God. It is the nature of the heart of sick
men, in their pain and sickness, to vent itself for ease, by dolorous groans and complainings
to them that stand by. Thus it was with David, in Psalm 38:1-12. And thus, blessed be the Lord,
it is with them that are endued with the grace of God.

Seventh. It is necessary that there be an enlightened understanding, to the end that the soul
be kept in a continuation of the duty of prayer.

The people of God are not ignorant how many wiles, tricks, and temptations the devil hath to
make a poor soul, who is truly willing to have the Lord Jesus Christ, and that upon Christ's
terms too; I say, to tempt that soul to be weary of seeking the face of God, and to think that
God is not willing to have mercy on such a one as him. Ay, saith Satan, thou mayest pray indeed,
but thou shalt not prevail. Thou seest thine heart is hard, cold, dull, and dread; thou dost
not pray with the Spirit, thou dost not pray in good earnest, thy thoughts are running after
other things, when thou pretendest to pray to God. Away hypocrite, go no further, it is but
in vain to strive any longer! Here now, if the soul be not well informed in its understanding,
it will presently cry out, "the Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me" (Isa
49:14). Whereas the soul rightly informed and enlightened saith, Well, I will seek the Lord,
and wait; I will not leave off, though the Lord keep silence, and speak not one word of comfort
(Isa 40:27). He loved Jacob dearly, and yet he made him wrestle before he had the blessing
(Gen 32:25-27). Seeming delays in God are no tokens of his displeasure; he may hide his face
from his dearest saints (Isa 8:17). He loves to keep his people praying, and to find them ever
knocking at the gate of heaven; it may be, says the soul, the Lord tries me, or he loves to
hear me groan out my condition before him.

The woman of Canaan would not take seeming denials for real ones; she knew the Lord was gracious,
and the Lord will avenge his people, though he bear long with them (Luke 18:1-6). The Lord
hath waited longer upon me than I have waited upon him; and thus it was with David, "I waited
patiently," saith he; that is, it was long before the Lord answered me, though at the last
"he inclined" his ear "unto me, and heard my cry" (Psa 40:1). And the most excellent remedy
for this is, an understanding well informed and enlightened. Alas, how many poor souls are
there in the world, that truly fear the Lord, who, because they are not well informed in their
understanding, are oft ready to give up all for lost, upon almost every trick and temptation
of Satan! The Lord pity them, and help them to "pray with the Spirit, and with the understanding
also." This made me, through the assistance of his Holy Spirit, to cleave to him, to hang upon
him, and yet to cry, though for the present he made no answer; and the Lord help all his poor,
tempted, and afflicted people to do the like, and to continue, though it be long, according
to the saying of the prophet (Hab 2:3). And to help them (to that end) to pray, not by the
inventions of men, and their stinted forms, but "with the Spirit, and with the understanding also."

[Queries and Objections answered.]

And now to answer a query or two, and so to pass on to the next thing.

Query First. But what would you have us poor creatures to do that cannot tell how to pray?
The Lord knows I know not either how to pray, or what to pray for.

Answ. Poor heart! thou canst not, thou complainest, pray. Canst thou see thy misery? Hath God
showed thee that thou art by nature under the curse of his law? If so, do not mistake, I know
thou dost groan and that most bitterly. I am persuaded thou canst scarcely be found doing any
thing in thy calling, but prayer breaketh from thy heart. Have not thy groans gone up to heaven
from every corner of thy house? (Rom 8:26). I know it is thus; and so also doth thine own sorrowful
heart witness thy tears, thy forgetfulness of thy calling, &c. Is not thy heart so full of
desires after the things of another world, that many times thou dost even forget the things
of this world? Prithee read this scripture, Job 23:12.

Query Second. Yea, but when I go into secret, and intend to pour out my soul before God, I
can scarce say anything at all.

Answ. 1. Ah! Sweet soul! It is not thy words that God so much regards, as that he will not
mind thee, except thou comest before him with some eloquent oration. His eye is on the brokenness
of thine heart; and that it is that makes the very bowels of the Lord to run over. "A broken
and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise" (Psa 51:17).

2. The stopping of thy words may arise from overmuch trouble in thy heart. David was so troubled
sometimes, that he could not speak (Psa 77:3, 4). But this may comfort all such sorrowful hearts
as thou art, that though thou canst not through the anguish of thy spirit speak much, yet the
Holy Spirit stirs up in thine heart groans and sighs, so much the more vehement: when the mouth
is hindered, yet the spirit is not. Moses, as aforesaid, made heaven ring again with his prayers,
when (that we read of) not one word came out of his mouth (Exo 14:15). But,

3. If thou wouldst more fully express thyself before the Lord, study, first, Thy filthy estate;
secondly, God's promises; thirdly, The heart of Christ. Which thou mayest know or discern,
(1.) By his condescension and bloodshed. (2.) By the mercy he hath extended to great sinners
formerly, and plead thine own vileness, by way of bemoaning; Christ's blood by way of expostulation;
and in thy prayers, let the mercy that he hath extended to other great sinners, together with
his rich promises of grace, be much upon thy heart. Yet let me counsel thee, (a.) Take heed
that thou content not thyself with words. (b.) That thou do not think that God looks only at
them neither. But, (c.) However, whether thy words be few or many, let thine heart go with
them; and then shalt thou seek him, and find him, when thou shalt seek him with thy whole heart
(Jer 29:13).

Objection. But though you have seemed to speak against any other way of praying but by the
Spirit, yet here you yourself can give direction how to pray.

Answ. We ought to prompt one another forward to prayer, though we ought not to make for each
other forms of prayer. To exhort to pray with Christian direction is one thing, and to make
stinted forms for the tying up the Spirit of God to them is another thing. The apostle gives
them no form to pray withal, yet directs to prayer (Eph 6:18; Rom 15:30-32). Let no man therefore
conclude, that because we may with allowance give instructions and directions to pray, that
therefore it is lawful to make for each other forms of prayer.

Object. But if we do not use forms of prayer, how shall we teach our children to pray?

Answ. My judgment is, that men go the wrong way to teach their children to pray, in going about
so soon to teach them any set company of words, as is the common use of poor creatures to do.

For to me it seems to be a better way for people betimes to tell their children what cursed
creatures they are, and how they are under the wrath of God by reason of original and actual
sin; also to tell them the nature of God's wrath, and the duration of the misery; which if
they conscientiously do, they would sooner teach their children to pray than they do. The way
that men learn to pray, it is by conviction for sin; and this is the way to make our sweet
babes do so too. But the other way, namely, to be busy in teaching children forms of prayer,
before they know any thing else, it is the next way to make them cursed hypocrites, and to
puff them up with pride. Teach therefore your children to know their wretched state and condition;
tell them of hell-fire and their sins, of damnation, and salvation; the way to escape the one,
and to enjoy the other, if you know it yourselves, and this will make tears run down your sweet
babes' eyes, and hearty groans flow from their hearts; and then also you may tell them to whom
they should pray, and through whom they should pray: you may tell them also of God's promises,
and his former grace extended to sinners, according to the word.

Ah! Poor sweet babes, the Lord open their eyes, and make them holy Christians. He doth not
say, I will muzzle you up in a form of prayer; but "I will teach you the fear of the Lord";
which is, to see their sad states by nature, and to be instructed in the truth of the gospel,
which doth through the Spirit beget prayer in every one that in truth learns it. And the more
you teach them this, the more will their hearts run out to God in prayer. God never did account
Paul a praying man, until he was a convinced and converted man; no more will it be with any
else (Acts 9:11).

Object. But we find that the disciples desired that Christ would teach them to pray, as John
also taught his disciples; and that thereupon he taught them that form called the LORD'S PRAYER.

Answ. 1. To be taught by Christ, is that which not only they, but we desire; and seeing he
is not here in his person to teach us, the Lord teach us by his Word and Spirit; for the Spirit
it is which he hath said he would send to supply in his room when he went away, as it is (John
14:16; 16:7).

2. As to that called a form, I cannot think that Christ intended it as a stinted form of prayer.
(1.) Because he himself layeth it down diversely, as is to be seen, if you compare Matthew
6 and Luke 11. Whereas if he intended it as a set form, it must not have been so laid down,
for a set form is so many words and no more. (2.) We do not find that the apostles did ever
observe it as such; neither did they admonish others so to do. Search all their epistles, yet
surely they, both for knowledge to discern and faithfulness to practice, were as eminent as
any HE ever since in the world which would impose it.

[3.] But, in a word, Christ by those words, "Our Father," &c., doth instruct his people what
rules they should observe in their prayers to God. (1.) That they should pray in faith. (2.)
To God in the heavens. (3.) For such things as are according to his will, &c. Pray thus, or
after this manner.

Object. But Christ bids pray for the Spirit; this implieth that men without the Spirit may
notwithstanding pray and be heard. (See Luke 11:9-13).

Answ. The speech of Christ there is directed to his own (verse 1). Christ's telling of them
that God would give his Holy Spirit to them that ask him, is to be understood of giving more
of the Holy Spirit; for still they are the disciples spoken to, which had a measure of the
Spirit already; for he saith, "when ye pray, say, Our Father," (verse 2) I say unto you (verse
8). Christians ought to pray for the Spirit, that is, for more of it, though God hath endued
them with it already.

Quest. Then would you have none pray but those that know they are the disciples of Christ?

Answ. Yes.

1. Let every soul that would be saved pour out itself to God, though it cannot through temptation
conclude itself a child of God. And,

2. I know if the grace of God be in thee, it will be as natural to thee to groan out thy condition,
as it is for a sucking child to cry for the breast. Prayer is one of the first things that
discovers a man to be a Christian (Acts 9:12). But yet if it be right, it is such prayer as
followeth. (1.) To desire God in Christ, for himself, for his holiness, love, wisdom, and glory.
For right prayer, as it runs only to God through Christ, so it centers in him, and in him alone.
"Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire," long for, or
seek after, "beside thee" (Psa 73:25). (2.) That the soul might enjoy continually communion
with him, both here and hereafter. "I shall be satisfied, when I awake with" thine image, or
in "thy likeness," (Psa 17:15). "For in this we groan earnestly," &c., (II Cor 5:2). (3.) Right
prayer is accompanied with a continual labour after that which is prayed for. "My soul waiteth
for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning" (Psa 130:6). "I will rise now, I will
seek him whom my soul loveth" (Song 3:2). For mark, I beseech you, there are two things that
provoke to prayer. The one is a detestation to sin, and the things of this life; the other
is a longing desire after communion with God, in a holy and undefiled state and inheritance.
Compare but this one thing with most of the prayers that are made by men, and you shall find
them but mock prayers, and the breathings of an abominable spirit; for even the most of men
either do pray at all, or else only endeavour to mock God and the world by so doing; for do
but compare their prayer and the course of their lives together, and you may easily see that
the thing included in their prayer is the least looked after by their lives. O sad hypocrites!

Thus have I briefly showed you, FIRST, What prayer is; SECOND, What it is to pray with the
Spirit; THIRD, What it is to pray with the Spirit, and with the understanding also.

FOURTH. [USE AND APPLICATION.]

I shall now speak a word or two of application, and so conclude with, First, A word of information;
Second, A word of encouragement; Third, A word of rebuke.

USE First, A word of information.

For the first to inform you; as prayer is the duty of every one of the children of God, and
carried on by the Spirit of Christ in the soul; so every one that doth but offer to take upon
him to pray to the Lord, had need be very wary, and go about that work especially with the
dread of God, as well as with hopes of the mercy of God through Jesus Christ.

Prayer is an ordinance of God, in which a man draws very near to God; and therefore it calleth
for so much the more of the assistance of the grace of God to help a soul to pray as becomes
one that is in the presence of him. It is a shame for a man to behave himself irreverently
before a king, but a sin to do so before God. And as a king, if wise, is not pleased with an
oration made up with unseemly words and gestures, so God takes no pleasure in the sacrifice
of fools (Eccl 5:1, 4). It is not long discourses, nor eloquent tongues, that are the things
which are pleasing in the ears of the Lord; but a humble, broken, and contrite heart, that
is sweet in the nostrils of the heavenly Majesty (Psa 51:17; Isa 57:15). Therefore for information,
know that there are these five things that are obstructions to prayer, and even make void the
requests of the creature.

1. When men regard iniquity in their hearts, at the time of their prayers before God. For the
preventing of temptation, that by the misunderstanding of this may seize thy heart, when there
is a secret love to that very thing which thou with thy dissembling lips dost ask for strength
against. For this is the wickedness of man's heart, that it will even love, and hold fast,
that which with the mouth it prays against: and of this sort are they that honour God with
their mouth, but their heart is far from him (Isa 29:13; Eze 33:31). O! how ugly would it be
in our eyes, if we should see a beggar ask an alms, with an intention to throw it to the dogs!
Or that should say with one breath, Pray, you bestow this upon me; and with the next, I beseech
you, give it me not! And yet thus it is with these kind of persons; with their mouth they say,
"Thy will be done"; and with their hearts nothing less. With their mouth say, "Hallowed be
thy name"; and with their hearts and lives thy delight to dishonour him all the day long. These
be the prayers that become sin (Psa 109:7), and though they put them up often, yet the Lord
will never answer them (II Sam 22:42).

2. When men pray for a show to be heard, and thought somebody in religion, and the like; these
prayers also fall far short of God's approbation, and are never like to be answered, in reference
to eternal life. There are two sorts of men that pray to this end.

(1.) Your trencher chaplains, that thrust themselves into great men's families, pretending
the worship of God, when in truth the great business is their own bellies; and were notably
painted out by Ahab's prophets, and also Nebuchadnezzar's wise men, who, though they pretended
great devotion, yet their lusts and their bellies were the great things aimed at by them in
all their pieces of devotion.

(2.) Them also that seek repute and applause for their eloquent terms, and seek more to tickle
the ears and heads of their hearers than anything else. These be they that pray to be heard
of men, and have all their reward already (Matt 6:5). These persons are discovered thus, (a.)
They eye only their auditory in their expressions. (b.) They look for commendation when they
have done. (c.) Their hearts either rise or fall according to their praise or enlargement.
(d.) The length of their prayer pleaseth them; and that it might be long, they will vainly
repeat things over and over (Matt 6:7). They study for enlargements, but look not from what
heart they come; they look for returns, but it is the windy applause of men. And therefore
they love not to be in their chamber, but among company: and if at any time conscience thrusts
them into their closet, yet hypocrisy will cause them to be heard in the streets; and when
their mouths have done going their prayers are ended; for they wait not to hearken what the
Lord will say (Psa 85:8).

3. A third sort of prayer that will not be accepted of God, it is, when either they pray for
wrong things, or if for right things, yet that the thing prayed for might be spent upon their
lusts, and laid out to wrong ends. Some have not, because they ask not, saith James, and others
ask and have not, because they ask amiss, that they may consume it on their lusts (James 4:
2-4). Ends contrary to God's will is a great argument with God to frustrate the petitions presented
before him. Hence it is that so many pray for this and that, and yet receive it not. God answers
them only with silence; they have their words for their labour; and that is all. Object. But
God hears some persons, though their hearts be not right with him, as he did Israel, in giving
quails, though they spent them upon their lusts (Psa 106:14). Answ. If he doth, it is in judgment,
not in mercy. He gave them their desire indeed, but they had better have been without it, for
he "sent leanness into their soul" (Psa 106:15). Woe be to that man that God answereth thus.

4. Another sort of prayers there are that are not answered; and those are such as are made
by men, and presented to God in their own persons only, without their appearing in the Lord
Jesus. For though God hath appointed prayer, and promised to hear the prayer of the creature,
yet not the prayer of any creature that comes not in Christ. "If ye shall ask anything in my
name." And whether ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ (Col 3:17). "If ye shall ask anything in my name," &c., (John 14:13, 14), though you
be never so devout, zealous, earnest and constant in prayer, yet it is in Christ only that
you must be heard and accepted. But, alas! the most of men know not what it is to come to him
in the name of the Lord Jesus, which is the reason they either live wicked, pray wicked, and
also die wicked. Or else, that they attain to nothing else but what a mere natural man may
attain unto, as to be exact in word and deed betwixt man and man, and only with the righteousness
of the law to appear before God.

5. The last thing that hindereth prayer is, the form of it without the power. It is an easy
thing for men to be very hot for such things as forms of prayer, as they are written in a book;
but yet they are altogether forgetful to inquire with themselves, whether they have the spirit
and power of prayer. These men are like a painted man, and their prayers like a false voice.
They in person appear as hypocrites, and their prayers are an abomination (Prov 28:9). When
they say they have been pouring out their souls to God he saith they have been howling like
dogs (Hosea 7:14).

When therefore thou intendest, or art minded to pray to the Lord of heaven and earth, consider
these following particulars. 1. Consider seriously what thou wantest. Do not, as many who in
their words only beat the air, and ask for such things as indeed they do not desire, nor see
that they stand in need thereof. 2. When thou seest what thou wantest, keep to that, and take
heed thou pray sensibly.

Object. But I have a sense of nothing; then, by your argument, I must not pray at all.

Answ. 1. If thou findest thyself senseless in some sad measure, yet thou canst not complain
of that senselessness, but by being sensible there is a sense of senselessness. According to
thy sense, then, that thou hast of the need of anything, so pray; (Luke 8:9), and if thou art
sensible of thy senselessness, pray the Lord to make thee sensible of whatever thou findest
thine heart senseless of. This was the usual practice of the holy men of God. "Lord, make me
to know mine end," saith David (Psa 39:4). "Lord, open to us this parable," said the disciples
(Luke 8:9). And to this is annexed the promise, "Call unto me and I will answer thee, and show
thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not," that thou art not sensible of (Jer 33:3).
But,

Answ. 2. Take heed that thy heart go to God as well as thy mouth. Let not thy mouth go any
further than thou strivest to draw thine heart along with it. David would lift his heart and
soul to the Lord; and good reason; for so far as a man's mouth goeth along without his heart,
so far it is but lip-labour only; and though God calls for, and accepteth the calves of the
lips, yet the lips without the heart argueth, not only senselessness, but our being without
sense of our senselessness; and therefore if thou hast a mind to enlarge in prayer before God,
see that it be with thy heart.

Answ. 3. Take heed of affecting expressions, and so to please thyself with the use of them,
that thou forget not the life of prayer.

I shall conclude this use with a caution or two.

Caution 1. And the first is, take heed thou do not throw off prayer, through sudden persuasions
that thou hast not the Spirit, neither prayest thereby. It is the great work of the devil to
do his best, or rather worst, against the best prayers. He will flatter your false dissembling
hypocrites, and feed them with a thousand fancies of well-doing, when their very duties of
prayer, and all other, stink in the nostrils of God, when he stands at a poor Joshua's hand
to resist him, that is, to persuade him, that neither his person nor performances are accepted
of God (Isa 65:5; Zech 3:1). Take heed, therefore, of such false conclusions and groundless
discouragements; and though such persuasions do come in upon thy spirit, be so far from being
discouraged by them, that thou use them to put thee upon further sincerity and restlessness
of spirit, in thy approaching to God.

Caution 2. As such sudden temptations should not stop thee from prayer, and pouring out thy
soul to God; so neither should thine own heart's corruptions hinder thee. (Let not thy corruptions
stop thy prayers). It may be thou mayest find in thee all those things before mentioned, and
that they will be endeavouring to put forth themselves in thy praying to him. Thy business
then is to judge them, to pray against them, and to lay thyself so much the more at the foot
of God, in a sense of thy own vileness, and rather make an argument from thy vileness and corruption
of heart, to plead with God for justifying and sanctifying grace, than an argument of discouragement
and despair. David went this way. "O Lord," saith he, "pardon mine iniquity, for it is great"
(Psa 25:11).

USE Second. A word of encouragement.

And therefore, secondly, to speak a word by way of encouragement, to the poor, tempted, and
cast down soul, to pray to God through Christ. Though all prayer that is accepted of God in
reference to eternal life must be in the Spirit--for that only maketh intercession for us according
to the will of God, (Rom 8:27)--yet because many poor souls may have the Holy Spirit working
on them, and stirring of them to groan unto the Lord for mercy, though through unbelief they
do not, nor, for the present, cannot believe that they are the people of God, such as he delights
in; yet forasmuch as the truth of grace may be in them, therefore I shall, to encourage them,
lay down further these few particulars.

1. That scripture in Luke 11:8 is very encouraging to any poor soul that doth hunger after
Christ Jesus. In verses 5-7, he speaketh a parable of a man that went to his friend to borrow
three loaves, who, because he was in bed, denied him; yet for his importunity-sake, he did
arise and give him, clearly signifying that though poor souls, through the weakness of their
faith, cannot see that they are the friends of God, yet they should never leave asking, seeking,
and knocking at God's door for mercy. Mark, saith Christ, "I say unto you, though he will not
rise and give him, because he is his friend; yet because of his importunity," or restless desires,
"he will rise and give him as many as he needeth." Poor heart! thou criest out that God will
not regard thee, thou dost not find that thou art a friend to him, but rather an enemy in thine
heart by wicked works (Col 1:21). And thou art as though thou didst hear the Lord saying to
thee, Trouble me not, I cannot give unto thee, as he in the parable; yet I say, continue knocking,
crying, moaning, and bewailing thyself. I tell thee, "though he will not rise and give thee,
because thou art his friend; yet, because of thy importunity, he will arise and give thee as
many as thou needest." The same in effect you have discovered, Luke 18, in the parable of the
unjust judge and the poor widow; her importunity prevailed with him. And verily, mine own experience
tells me, that there is nothing that doth more prevail with God than importunity. Is it not
so with you in respect of your beggars that come to your door? Though you have no heart to
give them anything at their first asking, yet if they follow you, bemoaning themselves, and
will take no nay without an alms, you will give them; for their continual begging overcometh
you. Are there bowels in you that are wicked, and will they be wrought upon by an importuning
beggar? Go thou and do the like. It is a prevailing motive, and that by good experience, he
will arise and give thee as many as thou needest (Luke 11:8).

2. Another encouragement for a poor trembling convinced soul is to consider the place, throne,
or seat, on which the great God hath placed himself to hear the petitions and prayers of poor
creatures; and that is a "throne of grace" (Heb 4:16). "The mercy-seat" (Exo 25:22). Which
signifieth that in the days of the gospel God hath taken up his seat, his abiding-place, in
mercy and forgiveness; and from thence he doth intend to hear the sinner, and to commune with
him, as he saith (Exo 25:22),--speaking before of the mercy-seat--"And there I will meet with
thee," mark, it is upon the mercy-seat: "There I will meet with thee, and" there "I will commune
with thee, from above the mercy-seat." Poor souls! They are very apt to entertain strange thoughts
of God, and his carriage towards them: and suddenly to conclude that God will have no regard
unto them, when yet he is upon the mercy-seat, and hath taken up his place on purpose there,
to the end he may hear and regard the prayers of poor creatures. If he had said, I will commune
with thee from my throne of judgment, then indeed you might have trembled and fled from the
face of the great and glorious Majesty.

3. There is yet another encouragement to continue in prayer with God: and that is this:

As there is a mercy-seat, from whence God is willing to commune with poor sinners; so there
is also by his mercy-seat, Jesus Christ, who continually besprinkleth it with his blood. Hence
it is called "the blood of sprinkling" (Heb 12:24). When the high-priest under the law was
to go into the holiest, where the mercy-seat was, he might not go in "without blood" (Heb 9:7).

Why so? Because, though God was upon the mercy-seat, yet he was perfectly just as well as merciful.
Now the blood was to stop justice from running out upon the persons concerned in the intercession
of the high-priest, as in Leviticus 16:13-17, to signify that all thine unworthiness that thou
fearest should not hinder thee from coming to God in Christ for mercy. Thou criest out that
thou art vile, and therefore God will not regard thy prayers; it is true, if thou delight in
thy vileness, and come to God out of a mere pretence. But if from a sense of thy vileness thou
do pour out thy heart to God, desiring to be saved from the guilt, and cleansed from the filth,
with all thy heart; fear not, thy vileness will not cause the Lord to stop his ear from hearing
of thee. The value of the blood of Christ which is sprinkled upon the mercy-seat stops the
course of justice, and opens a floodgate for the mercy of the Lord to be extended unto thee.
Thou hast therefore, as aforesaid, "boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,"
that hath made "a new and living way" for thee, thou shalt not die (Heb 10:19, 20).

Besides, Jesus is there, not only to sprinkle the mercy-seat with his blood, but he speaks,
and his blood speaks; he hath audience, and his blood hath audience; insomuch that God saith,
when he doth but see the blood, he "will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you,"
&c., (Exo 12:13).

I shall not detain you any longer. 

"Oh, how happy you are," said the neighbor wistfully, "but I know it! You already, that my Scrooge
is moved to the hall? What will happen to me! "

"I know you from my heart and regret, but tell me, as it came so fast?"

"Oh!" replied the lady, and secretly crushed a tear in the eye, - "oh, you have no idea of ​​the
cabal that exists in life. You know how eagerly Scrooge always for that was the country well.
Since he now had a new tattoo invented, he has it played to me on the window, he is charming.
His colonel, he also liked very well, but these have wanted him to give him the honor of the
invention. Of course Scrooge could not do it, and upset the colonel rested not till the poor
according to Hall was added. Oh, you never can imagine how sad my heart is lost if the tattoo
comes over to my window and they play it all Evening after the new
invention, and the one who made him can hear him!

"

"I am sorry you right. But you already know something new?

That, when the Guard have different uniforms? "

"Is it possible? O tell, how? How do you know it?"

"Listen, but in the strictest confidence, for it is still deep, deep mystery. Eduard has it of
its rulers, and confessed it to me recently, but under the seal of the deepest secrecy. See,
the buttons are farther apart on the chest and continue down close
and, at this way, the waist is much thinner, then they should also
golden Achselschnuere To get the white but the Colonel and I think
even the General is not yet entirely certain.

Also at the end stanchions trousers happen Vera - Eduard must look like an angel - see so far
...."

They whispered softly now, so I cut the trousers of the Guard do not
have rights could come into the clear.

         Only so much I saw that beautiful eyes with platonic feelings have
a very nice fire, they light up but much more charming, much brighter
Radiation throw when sensual D ear in them is reflected.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XIII.

Fear hours of the Wandering Jew.

The Reader was to come to a section and put down the book.

General applause place, and the habitual exclamations, which had already been subject to the sampler
were Gabriele also given. I could see the presence of mind and quick comprehension of the two
Fraeulein not enough admire, though not the smallest part of the read might have heard, so
they were trained so well that they seemed full of admiration. One even ran towards Wollau
wife, took her hand and pressed it to the heart, by her dearly thanked for the pleasure that they
have all prepared.

This lady was sitting there, full of splendor and glory, as if they Gabriele itself into the
world would have.

After thanking all sides for the praise of her friend have been bestowed upon, and did not understand vaguely
that they themselves might some influence on the I had a new book, for it now and then softly echoes
of their own ideas about inner life and about the status of women in society, in which it confidential
Hours of their open-minded girlfriend.

It was of course so good, why make her some compliments, although
they generally was convinced that the genius girlfriend nothing out
of the inner life mirrored Wollauschen Something will have.

The Eternal Jew, however, had in these processes played a very strange figure. Verwunderungsvoll
He looked into this world when he can not believe his eyes and ears.

But there was also an endeavor, according to my rule aesthetic and critical look, can not be
denied. But because he the exercise lacked it, so he cut as horrible grimaces that he several times
during the Reading aloud the attention of the whole circle pulled up and the lady of the house
me sympathetically asked if my tutor was not well.

I excused him with a toothache, which attacked him at times, and believed everything again have
done well too.

But when Madame de Wollau who sat opposite him, their influence on the poet told had Prized, being bolted
to the same old people occur so funny that he laughed out loud.

Who ever had the good fortune to attend an elegant tea in polite company Hoechst, can be imagined,
as if embarrassed, all were when this rude outburst of scorn rang. An awkward, silent pause
was dead, in what is now the doctor Mucker, sometimes the offended lady looked at her. The woman of
the house, bearing in mind the stinging kiss, wanted the naughty stranger who hurt the decency
of their house so grossly, without reserve rebuke, than this with
more skill and cunning, as I would have thought him capable, from
the affair consider knew.

"I hope, madam," he said, "you will not misunderstand my untimely laughter, however, and allow
me to justify myself. It is certainly met all of you also know that an association of ideas brought
you completely except CONTENANCE.

Is it already many in the middle among the most sacred things, a ridiculous idea pushed open,
the tickling him in the mouth, and the more he strove him to behave and REDUCE, the more unstoppable
burst he shows at once. It happened to me at this moment. They would connect me infinitely, Madam,
if you allow me, through candid narration by me from Mrs. Wollau inexcusable. "

Madam, greatly pleased that the decency was not injured but guaranteed respecting him in a friendly
his request, and the Wandering Jew began: "Woman of Wollau us their interesting relationship communicated
to a famous poet, and has told us how they in many hours about their literary works discussed
with her, and it reminded me very much an anecdote from my own life.

"On a trip through southern Germany I spent some time in S. My Abendspaziergaenge directed mostly
to the royal garden, every class at all hours open.

The beautiful world could be seen there on foot and in carriages every evening. I chose the lonely
parts of the garden, where I, interfering with thick bushes to the
sun and Closed out, lived on soft Moosbaenken me and my thoughts.

"One evening when I had rested for some time on my Lieblingsplaetzchen came two well-dressed elderly
woman and sat on a bench, which only has a narrow, but leafy hedge was separated from the mine.
I did not bother to provide them my neighborhood, they did not seem
suspect to convey to be seen.

Curiosity, it was left not what stopped me, for I knew no soul in that city, so I could their
Speeches hoechst be indifferent.

But imagine my surprise, my dear, as I heard the following conversation:

"'Well? And may I wish you luck, love Do, please, finally, this obstinate Elise from the world
made? "

"" Yes, "replied the other lady, 'this morning after coffee I killed her."

"Terror ran through my limbs, when I so clearly and indifferent to a murder heard speak, as
quietly as possible I approached the completion of the hedge that
away from them separated, sharpens my ears like a spaniel that nothing
should escape me so, and heard Next:

"'And as you have taught her
death?

As usual, by poison? Or you have the Unfortunate, as Othello his Desdemona, smothered with the
deck bed? "

"'Neither,' replied that, 'but rather hard to me was this murder, you think, For three days
I had been between life and death, and always I did not know what to do with it. Then I thought
finally a daring agent, I left you, how to slide down by accident, from a bridge without railings
in the deep current, the waves beat together about her. We have seen nothing of Eliza. "

"'You have done well, and which number was that they in one way or another Type killed? "

"'Well, that will soon be counted, Pauline Dupuis, Marie, etc. But the former I wore the most money
one. These were still the good times by 1802, few compete with me. "

"The hair stood on end. So five innocent creatures had already made this woman the world made it.
Was not it a good work on human society, if I such an atrocity revealed and the murderer to justice
moved?

"The ladies were all up after a few talks and had been indifferent to the City turned. Quietly
I got up and crept after them like a shadow their heels following. They walked through the promenade,
I followed, and turned back and went through the gate, I followed, they finally seemed to notice
my observations, for the one faced a few times around to me, her
evil conscience seemed to me wakes up, she might have guessed that
I knew the murder, she wants me fooled by the different direction
of the streets that they strikes; but I - follow.

At last they are still in a home. You ring the bell, one concludes on, they enter. As soon as they
are in the door, so I go up fast, I remember the number of the house and hurry, driven by that
zeal which the discovery of so gruesome mystery upset in each, should cover the management of
the police.

"I ask the Director to secret hearing. I told him put the whole thing, all I heard had, apart
from the murdered white but unfortunately does not show off their true names, than a certain
P aulin D upuis that in 1802 under the hand of murderous the woman died. But this was the
man in such cases police grizzled enough. He thanks me for my zeal, immediately sends patrols
in the street, which I described to him, and asks me to it when the night would be completely
engulfed in that house accompany. The night he would rather be in this, as he in such scenes the throng
of People and possibly avoid the attention.

"The night fell, we left. The police soldiers who had surrounded the house insured, that no man
had left the same. The bird was then captured. We kept our the house and began opening the first
floor of our investigation. Just outside the door of the first room I heard the voices of two
women. Ig I open and interpret the chief of police, the smaller elderly lady on the criminal.

"Astonished
stood on it and asked for our desires.

In their eyes, in all its Being this lady had something that impressed me. I lost a moment
by the text and pointed to the only director to have them because
of their question to the former.

But this could not impress easily. With that solemn air of a criminal court official he asked
her about her from today's walk. She conceded, and the Bank, where they sat. Your statement is entirely
at the mine, the man they saw as already remitted at.

The woman began to be anxious, she asked what they wanted because of it, why her house, her room
filled with armed men, why they are assailed with such questions?

"The man saw the police in this anguished question only the eruption
of a guilty Conscience.

He seemed to think the best, completely by insidious question their to elicit the crime: 'Madame,
what have you begun Anno 1802 with Pauline Dupuis?

No longer deny it, we know everything and they died by your hand, like this morning, the hapless Elise!
"

"'Yes, sir, I've been dying to make one like the others,' replied
the woman with a peace of mind, which seemed to move even in a wicked
smile.

"'And this murder you confess with as much equanimity as if you had
dismissed two pigeons?" asked the astonished police director, has
not happened in practice, such a killer be liked.

'Do you know that you are lost, it can cost you your head? "

"'No, no!" replied the lady. "The story is so famous .'--' world?" called former. I'm not even
forty-two years since police director? Do you like I can escape? "

"'And yet I'll be right, allow you that I bring you bring the evidence?"

"'Not

by the body without proper security! Guard! Two men on each side of Madame! In the first attempt
to escape - happened '!

"Four policemen with drawn bayonets accompanied the unfortunate, to me the mind seemed to have
lost. But soon she came back, a small book in his hand.

"'Here, gentlemen, you will find the evidence to the murder," she
said, handing us a smile handed over the book.

"'Pocket Book for 1802,' muttered the manager, as he opened the book and durchblaetterte. 'What
the devil, printed and read is here: P aulin D upuis of - my God, They are the widow of the
Lord from - and, if I mistake not, even a writer?

"'Tis so,' replied the lady, bursting into a merry laugh, which is also in the Director concurred
by saying, speechless with laughter, pointing at me.

"'And Elise - as is poor with this child?"

I asked, the relation of cause and the cheerfulness of the murderer and the policeman still not
understanding.

"'It is murder on my desk," said the laughing,' and to-morrow by the Printing to enter into eternal
life. "-

"What do I need to add still there?" Gentlemen and ladies, I was the fool in the game, and that
woman was the highly praised, interesting theory v. H. The narrative 'Pauline Dupuis' is still visible
today, whether the brilliant woman her Elise, the them in the morning
of that day after the coffee was completed, edited, I do not know.

I had to escape from S to not to be the laughing stock of the city. But before I even sent the
police chief over a wide Diaetenrechnung Zeitversaeumnis because I carried those funny murder
story the thirsty from his usual evening visit was held in a club. "-

The Eternal Jew had ended with a binding expression to Madame de Wollau.

General Applause was given to him, and a gracious smile of the housewife told him how happy He
had justified itself. And as the dark eyes of this lady before the men from its unfortunate proximity
were away, as fast as she approached him again, as down upon him the grace sun again. He moved
several times before the interview, he was asked about his travels, especially about those in
southern Germany. For as Scotland and its people for London and Old England at all, so Schwaben
for the Berlin that never in the Rebenhuegeln of the Neckar and the
cheerful verdant banks of the upper Danube is one of those thoughtful,
wonderful songs from the lips of a "luschtiga Bueebles" or a vigorous,
hochaufgeschuerzten "Maedler" overheard, an object of high curiosity.

What a strange opinions about that country, even in educated circles like this elegant Tea, were in
circulation, I heard this evening, to my great astonishment. In a magical garden by rolling hills,
from clear blue streams, blooming, fragrant fruit forests in resplendent vineyards cut, live,
they said, a small people, which is still pretty much at the first stage of the culture; immense
scholars who do not perceive them to express, imaginative writers, speak a word of the good German.
have your girl no education, their wives did not hesitate. Your men are not before the fortieth
year wise, and all over the country every day are made many thousands of those follies, which
are generally under the name "Schwaben tricks" are known.

I got this ridiculous verdict before, I had some years been in Swabia, and had me found among the
good people very well, I did not have to fear from the role of a
pupil to fall, I would have immediately responded, as I knew it; but
as it saved me the trouble of my mentor, who unfortunate enough the
good opinion He had won a few moments, only to be quickly lost again.

"Whether the Berliner," he said, "more inner education, more elegance have the external form
as the Swabians, whether here in Brandenburg, with more subtlety
equipped to Earth or rather is on the sand than in Swabia, I do not
investigate, but so much I have seen with my own eyes that there is
on average lower than the girls a much bigger amount of pretty, pretty
faces, even by itself as in Saxony, which yet famous because of this
article.

"

Source sottise! " I heard snorting wife of Wollau, "which this absurd allegation common man - "

In vain I waved to the Lord with the eyes, nothing gave him the poet a friendly Ribs to remind
him that he was among women who also claim to beauty made, quietly, as if the angry Schoenen the
biggest compliment would have said, went He continued: "You can not believe how cute these
decried dialect of beautiful Dyes his lips, as everything sounds
so naive, so sweet, how very handsome, these blooming Face when you
tell them that they are beautiful, that you love them, how mischievous
beat her down her eyes, as innocent blush, which is then in its spell
Despite if they turn away coyly and whisper, 'Oh ganget Se mer away,
Moinet Se because, i believe it?

" Here in northern Germany, there are usually only Teegesichter, the one consolation is Find ethereal
look or aesthetic, they have to hold your breath for the first time when they ever think it worth,
about to blush like that. "

O Jew, which block you were shot! No sooner you have the angry flashing eyes of a lady reconciled,
so you make the big mistake that twelve beautiful ladies the face of two countries, not just to praise
them not to list, but even their essential Complexion to decry their interesting Mondscheinblaesse
for Teegesichter!

The young ladies looked surprised when she could not believe their ears, to the elderly, which
threw terrible views of the wicked and the other gentlemen who, as
astonished no words could find a replica.

The tea cups, the golden spoon rattled loudly in the trembling hands of mothers with rage, the
last ten years, with much effort it then, had brought that their daughters want to look classy
and sophisticated - to which today, except the feeling of dignity, something sufferer, almost
sickly heard - which always again swelling fullness of their daughters, the recurrent redness
of the cheeks but had known how to conquer at last.

Now should this strange, exciting, nasty man she and her joy, her art wreck? He should go for it, the
ladies of this German Paris with those cumbersome Residents of the uncultured Schwab to bring them only
in parallel and the first fail to rank?

And so they should tolerate?

Jamais! Madam spoke up with a look that over the icy face of the silent Anger like a northern lights
over Schneegefilde herabglaenzte: "I must regret sincerely, Doctor Mucker that the beautiful
Swabia and his naive peasant girls so faithless have left, and I ask you, dear, "she continued, as they
are to the poet, who had introduced us, objected, "I ask you, you seem the gentleman to stop,
my circle to visit.

Jotter but he could among our women and its robust nature miss those naivete, he has made himself
so completely their own. "

Triumphant were directed to the needy, the mothers donated eyes of gratitude, the Tittered
behind their Sachtuechern, the young men had again the language found and made fun of my poor steward.
But the fine Time with the lady left the outbreak of the National revenge to remain at room
until they the doctor thought sufficiently punished. Insulted this man was allowed in her salon
will never if he had earned by his equally ruthless in their unwillingness
utterance, she bent so fast with that skill, the fine-educated women
is so peculiar to all other Remarks before by inviting her nephew
to keep his promise and society sacrifice the long-promised novel.

       

This young man had been busy throughout the evening my attention.

He differed from the other young men who chatted empty into the day,
very beneficial by Ernst and good behavior, by elected term and short,
real Judgement.

He was tall and slim built, beautiful male, just maybe for some more too lean. His eyes were shiny and
had that expression of quiet observation that a human expert or at least anybody tells a man's
life and bustle of the big and small world had seen in many forms and thought about it.

He was what made me feel very favorable for him at the meeting, the Wandering Jew and a satire
with no word, I want to say, attended with no expression.

For the first time in this whole evening he drew from the question of his aunt, a smile that
his face especially the mouth, much more pleasant was, truly, in this man I would have me if I had
been one of the present lady, must necessarily fall in love, but of course, young women have
very different views about the devil, and the simple black Garb of
the young man was of course the brilliant guard uniform and their
bold, the buxom forms do not display section offset.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XIV.
THE CURSE.

(A short story.)

"I'm vain abgemueht, my aunt," said
the young man with a full, wohltoenender Voice, "a novella-like or
light, a happy story for this evening . See But in order not to appear
wortbruechig, I have to some extent already the error make good looking.
If you allow, I will tell something of my own life, if it is not quite
the romantic attraction and the attractive response of a novel, but
always the value of truth has gotten. " 

The aunt noticed him kindly,
that the simple truth was often bigger attraction than the tension
of a fictional novel, so she confessed to him that they expect something
very interesting; because he saw since the return from his travels
so mysteriously, that one of its Begebnisse may be quite tense.

The
older ladies lorgnettierten him closely and gave this remark completely
applause; But to tell the young man began to:

"When I was five years
ago in this hall by a large company, which the goodness of my Aunt
had gathered again by the departing, took leave, I warned a few ladies
- if I was not mistaken, wife of Wollau with them - before the fire
in front of beautiful Roman women, their, the inflammation of the
heart looks.

Were there no objects of pity among those that in the old world perished by the flood, or that
in Sodom were burned with fire from heaven? doubtless, according to our apprehension, there
were many: but Noah, and he only, found grace in God's eyes; not because that of himself he
was better than the rest, but God acted as a gracious prince towards him, and let him share
in mercy of his own sovereign will and pleasure. But this at first was not so fully made manifest
as it was afterwards. Wherefore the propitiatory was not called, as here, a throne of grace,
but a mercy-seat, albeit there was great glory in these terms also; for, by mercy-seat was
showed, not only that God had compassion for men, but that also to be good was as his continual
resting-place, whither he would at length retire, and where he would sit down and abide, whatever
terrible or troublesome work for his church was on the wheel[3] at present. For a seat is a
place of rest, yea, is prepared for that end; and in that here mercy is called that seat, it
is to show, as I said, that whatever work is on the wheel in the world, let it be never so
dreadful and amazing, yet to God's church it shall end in mercy, for that is God's resting-place.
These, with many more places, show that mercy is God's place of rest, and thither he will retire
at last, and from thence will bless his church, his people.

But yet these terms, a throne, the throne of grace, doth more exceed in glory: not only because
the word grace shows that God, by all that he doth towards us in saving and forgiving, acts
freely as the highest Lord, and of his own good-will and pleasure, but also for that he now
saith, that his grace is become a king, a throne of grace. A throne is not only a seat for
rest, but a place of dignity and authority. This is known to all. Wherefore by this word, a
throne, or the throne of grace, is intimated, that God ruleth and governeth by his grace. So
then, in that here is mention made of a throne of grace, it showeth that sin, and Satan, and
death, and hell, must needs be subdued. For these last mentioned are but weakness and destruction;
but grace is life, and the absolute sovereign over all these to the ruling of them utterly
down. A throne of grace!

But this then God plainly declareth, that he is resolved this way to rule, and that he pointeth
at sin as his deadly foe: and if so, then, 'where sin aboundeth, grace must much more abound'
(Rom 5:20).[5] For it is the wisdom and discretion of all that rule, to fortify themselves
against them that rebel against them what they can. Sin seeks for the dominion, and grace seeks
for the dominion; but sin shall not rule, because it has no throne in the church among the
godly. Grace is king. Grace has the throne, and the people of God are not under the dominion
of sin, but of the grace of God, the which they are here implicitly bid to acknowledge, in
that they are bid to come boldly to it for help: 'That we may obtain mercy, and find grace
to help; to help in time of need.' For as from the hand and power of the king comes help and
succour to the subject, when assaulted by an enemy; so from the throne of grace, or from grace
as it reigns, comes the help and health of God's people. Here then the saints take shelter
from the roaring of the devil, from the raging of their lusts, and from the fury of the wicked.
That also is a very notable place, 'He will subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their
sins into the depths of the sea' (Micah 7:19). Thus is mercy and grace got into the throne,
reigns, and will assuredly conquer all; yea, will conquer, and that with a shout. 'Mercy rejoiceth
against judgment' (James 2:13). Yea, glorieth when it getteth the victory of sin, and subdueth
the sinner unto God and to his own salvation, as is yet more fully showed in the parable of
the prodigal son (Luke 15). But this, briefly to show you something of the nature of the terms,
and what must necessarily be implied thereby.

[What is to be inferred from the term 'throne of grace.']

Second. We will in the next place show what is to be inferred from hence. And,

1. To be sure this is inferred, that converted men are not every way, or in every sense, free
from the being of sin. For, were they, they need not betake themselves to a throne of grace
for help; when it saith there is grace in God, it inferreth, that there is sin in the godly;
and when it saith, grace reigns, as upon a throne, it implies, that sin would ascend the throne,
would reign, and would have the dominion over the children of God. This also is manifest, when
he saith, 'Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts
thereof' (Rom 7:12). And the only way to prevent it is to apply ourselves, as by the text we
are directed, to the throne of grace for help against it.

2. The text implies, that at certain times the most godly man in the world may be hard put
to it by the sin that dwelleth in him; yea, so hard put to it, as that there can be no ways
to save himself from a fall, but by imploring heaven and the throne of grace for help. This
is called the needy time, the time when the wayfaring man that knocked at David's door shall
knock at ours (2 Sam 12); or when we are got into the sieve into which Satan did get Peter
(Luke 22:31); or when those fists are about our ears that were about Paul's; and when that
thorn pricks us that Paul said was in his flesh (2 Cor 12:7,8). But why, or how comes it to
pass, that the godly are so hard put to it at these times, but because there is in them, that
is, in their flesh, no good thing, but consequently all aptness to close in with the devil
and his suggestions, to the overthrow of the soul? But now here we are presented with a throne
of grace, unto which, as presented with a throne of grace, unto which, as David says, we must
'continually resort'; and that is the way to obtain relief, and to find help in time of need
(Psa 71:3).

3. As Christians are sometimes in imminent dangers of falling, so sometimes it is so, that
they are fallen, are down, down dreadfully, and can by no means lift up themselves. And this
happeneth unto them because they have been remiss as to the conscionable performance of what
by this exhortation they are enjoined to. They have not been constant supplicants at this throne
for preserving grace; for had they, they should, as the text suggests, most certainly have
kept from such a fall; help should have been granted them in their needful time. But that is
it, of which such are guilty, which is written in the prophet Isaiah, 'But thou hast not called
upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel' (Isa 43:22). Therefore thou art
profaned, therefore thou art given to reproaches (Isa 43:28). Now, as they which are falling
are kept from coming down by coming to this throne of grace, so those that are fallen must
rise by the sceptre of love extended to them from thence. Men may fall by sin, but cannot raise
up themselves without the help of grace. Wherefore, it is worthy of our inquiry after a more
thorough knowledge of this throne of grace, whence, as we may well perceive, our help comes,
and by what comes from thence we are made to stand. I therefore come now to a more particular
description of this throne of grace; and to show how the godly know, or may know it, from other
thrones of God.

[What this throne of grace is.]

First, then, this throne of grace is the humanity, or heart and soul of Jesus Christ, in which
God sits and resteth for ever in love towards them that believe in him. Forasmuch as Christ
did, by the body of his flesh, when here, reconcile them unto the Father. For a glorious throne
to his Father's house, that is, for his Father's house, to come to their Father by; for that
they shall always find him thereon; or, as another scripture saith, in Christ reconciling them
unto him, not imputing to them their trespasses and sins (2 Cor 5:19). Nor is it possible,
that we lay aside the human nature of Christ, for us to find any such thing as a throne of
grace, either in earth or heaven; for that then nothing can be found to be the rest of God.
'This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased,' is God's own language; but there is none
other of whom he hath so said (Matt 3:17). Wherefore he resteth in him towards us, and in him
only. Besides, grace cannot be extended towards us but in a way of justice; for that the law
and our sin obstructeth another way (Gen 3:24). But, lay the human nature of Christ aside,
and where will you find, THAT that shall become such a sacrifice to justice for the sin of
men, as that God, for the sake of that, shall both forgive, and cause that grace for ever should
reign towards us in such a way? It reigns through righteousness, or justice, by Jesus Christ,
and no way else. Christ Jesus, therefore, is this throne of grace; or him, or that, by which
grace reigns towards the children of God (Rom 5:21).

That scripture also gives us a little light herein, 'And I beheld, and lo! in the midst of
the throne,' &c., 'stood a Lamb, as it had been slain' (Rev 5:6). This is to show the cause
why grace is so freely let out to us, even for that there stands there, in the midst of the
throne, and in the midst of the elders, a lamb as it had been slain, or, as it was made a sacrifice
for our sin; for, as a slain lamb, he now lives in the midst of the throne, and is the meritorious
cause of all the grace that we enjoy. And though it seems by this text that the throne is one
thing and the Lamb another, yet the Lamb of God is the throne, though not as a lamb or sacrifice,
but as one that by his sacrifice has made way for grace to run like a river into the world.
The Son of God, Jesus Christ, is ALL; he is the throne, the altar, the priest, the sacrifice,
and all: but he is the throne, the priest, the altar, and the sacrifice, under divers considerations.
He is not the throne as he is the priest; he is not the priest as he is the sacrifice; he is
not the sacrifice as he is the altar; yet is truly all these. Yea, there is no throne of grace,
no high priest, no propitiatory sacrifice, &c., but he. Of all which we may yet speak further
before we conclude this treatise. I conclude, then, that Christ Jesus, in his human nature,
is this throne of grace. In his human nature, I say, he has by that completely accomplished
all things necessary for the making way for grace to be extended to men; and that that is not
only God's place of rest, but that by and from which, as upon a glorious throne, his grace
shall reign over devil, death, sin, hell, and the grave, for ever. This human nature of Christ
is also called the tabernacle of God; for the fullness of the Godhead dwells in it bodily.
It is God's habitation, his dwelling-place, his chair and throne of state. He doth all in and
by it, and without it he doth not any thing. But to pass this, let us come to the next thing.

[Where the throne of grace is erected.]

Second. We will now come to discourse of the placing of this throne of grace, or to discover
where it is erected. And for this we must repair to the type, which, as was said before, is
called the mercy-seat; the which we find, not in the outward court, nor yet within the first
veil (Heb 9:3-5); which signifies, not in the world, nor in the church on earth, but in the
holy of the holies, or after the second veil, the flesh of Christ (Heb 10:20). There then is
this throne of God, this throne of grace, and no where here below. And for as much as it is
called the throne of God, of grace, and is there, it signifieth that it is the highest and
most honourable. Hence he is said to be far above all heavens, and to have a name above every
name. Wherefore he that will come to this throne of grace, must know what manner of coming
it is by which he must approach it; and that is, not personally,[6] but by runnings out of
heart; not by himself, but by his Priest, his High Priest; for so it was in the type (Heb 9:7).
Into the second, where the mercy-seat was, went the high priest alone, that is, personally,
and the people by him, as he made intercession for them. This then must be done by those that
will approach this throne of grace. They must go to God, as he is enthroned IN Christ; BY Christ,
as he is the High Priest of his church; and they must go to him in the holiest, by him. Two to three candles were extinguished, my anxiety was ever greater.

Finally, however, as the sounds fortwogten still they pressed me to the core. The Ore melted my
chest before the dense rays, sadness took hold of me, thoughts of the days my youth gone like
shadows in front of my mind, involuntary agitation took possession
of me, and tears entstuerzten for years for the first time my eyes.

Ashamed, I looked around me, but if not seen my tears. But the players, wonderful Sight lay crushed
on her knees, the Lord and his friends were crying bitterly. Twelve candles were extinguished.
Again rose the deep, heart-piercing Toene moved, lamenting the hall, always dull, always quiet mingles.
Since unlit the last candle and simultaneously the sea of ​​fire of the church, and fearful shadow,
deep darkness came from the choir and was deposited over the congregation.

I felt like I was from the Community pushed out of the blessed in a very nasty night.

As the chorus sounded out of range of rooms behind sweet, plaintive voices. What of that dark, gruesome
Unison unknown deviates left melted before this Dolce of sadness. All around me Sobs of weeping,
over here from the chorus sounds, sung by angels looking believed
I can not help but annihilated in a world going down with and listen
to the belief delusions of immortality had been.

The singing had died away, flares illuminated the scene, the crowd
poured through the gates, and I thought me to leave to prepare, since
I first saw that my beautiful Neighbor still sunk on her knees was.

I took courage.

'Signora,' said I, 'the gates are closed, we are the last in the chapel.

"

No answer. I took their rights, which hung down on the side, it was cold and without Life. She
lay in a swoon.

I found myself in a strange situation. The night was far advanced, with only a few Flambeau
went through the church, I had to fear every moment to be forgotten. I do not recollected long called
one of the torch-bearer for his help with the lady erect.

As I was when I opened the curtains!

The somber glow of the torch halbverloeschten fell on a face, what I saw on the most magnificent boxes of
Raphael never! Glaenzendbraune curls had been dissolved and fell down into the shrouded bosom
and moved the lovely oval of her face, on which a transparent Blaesse stored had. The beautiful
arch of the eyebrows promised a serious, perhaps a little mischievous Eye and the mouth half
open Clothed with the whitest pearls, was grief, could Pain have
so moved.

When we tried to straighten her, she opened the beautiful, blue eyes,
his own, schwaermerischer Gloss me so surprised that I had some time
to collect myself necessary.

She raised suddenly, and stood in all their beauty to me. What a delicate forms with so much
grace, with such unusual height of the growth.

She looked puzzled in the church around and then let their eyes heruebergleiten to me.

'And here, Otto? " she said, not Italian, no, in pure, well-sounding German.

As I was so wonderful! She spoke so well known to me, even my name, they had called, where they could
tell him - she seemed puzzled by my silence?.

'Not in a good mood, my friend? And yet you have supported me so kind? But! Let Us go, it's getting
late. "

She was right. The torch threatened to ridiculed lear.

I gave her my arm. She pressed tenderly my hand.

What was I thinking, what could I do? Fraud of her was not possible - the girl could not be
a prostitute. Confusion was evident. But they knew me by my name to name. She was so without
Arg - I dared - I took over the role of a disgruntled suitor and walked in silence with her through
the halls.

The portal was my sorrows again. Which road should I choose not to immediately to betray my ignorance?
I gathered all my courage and walked to the middle Street to.

'My God! " she cried and pulled my arm gently sideways, 'Otto, where you are only now? We would
indeed come to the Tiber. "

Oh! As I heard that voice so much! How beautiful our language sounds in a beautiful Mouth! Many
times I had envied the Romans to the inner melody of tones, this
was far more than I ever heard in Rome, and it apparently had to be
a German girl, I saw it out of everything, and yet so pure, round
sound of their language!

When I was still silent, broke them out in a faint cry. Their teary eyes looked at me wistfully,
her lips curved , as if they expected a kiss.

'Are you not good to me, my Otto? Oh, you could be angry with me that I Lamentations heard? Oh!
not angry with me! But you're right, I would rather not go there. I thought to find solace,
and found no comfort, no hope. All my friends seemed to the grave emerged, seemed to blow over the
Alps and with sounds of the action to call me to himself.

As I am so alone on the earth! " cried she, by her black eye in the nightly Blue sky appeared.
'How am I so alone - And if I do not have is my Otto -'

My situation bordering on despair, not the nicest, sweetest child in the arms and yet can say
how I loved her! When her tears still would not stop, whispered I whispered at last, 'How could
I be angry with you? "

She looked kind of grateful -'Du're right again?

And oh! as you see today, but even not so dark out, even your voice sounds so soft! Let tomorrow
so and do not let again wait a whole day out on you. "

She approached a house and stopped from being moved by the bell. 'And now good Night, my heart, "she
said, 'how much I sat down with you still on the bench, but the Signora probably waiting too
long. " I did not know what happened to me, I felt a hot Kiss on my lips, and she was gone.

I
remember the number of the house, but the road I could not tell. Just a Fountains and carved
against about a Madonna from her house in stone, I could as a sign note for the future. I squirmed
with unspeakable exertions through the maze of streets and was not happy when I finally reached
my house.

Until the morning light no Sleep. At first I did not sleep the moon, who grinned at me through
the window in, and when I preferred the curtain, even the angels seemed hereinzublicken head
of the girl. Sometimes garnered the lamentations of my confused head, and I cursed at last
an adventure That cost me a sleepless night.

Very early the next morning came Lord Parter and one of his friends with me. They wanted I have met when
I brought my enigmatic good home and turn me teasingly, I did it yesterday denied altogether.
When I told them, I am very adventures, the Parts by told, they were still wild and claimed me several
times already clear have seen the same lady.

I was always clear that any daemon in I wrapped my form, since the girl seemed to know me as
accurate, and I was no less eager, the dear girl, as the likeness of my bodily form to see. The
two Englishmen had me promise not to disclose, as I I feared the ridicule of my friends, at the
same time they also promised me to look . Help

After wandering, and we had to invent a thousand lies to the awakening of curiosity to deceive
our friends, we finally found in the remotest corners of the city
that Marks, the Madonna and the fountain.

I saw the house of the Holden, I looked at the bank the door, on which I would have to be saved,
but here our path came to an end. As foreigners we would have risked too much, so far known to us from
the streets, under a class of people, particularly the English is so gram, we intrude into
someone's house. We moved several times through the street, always
had the door locked, the windows always jealous imposed.

We distributed our guarded the days hiking, neither my Schoene, yet my image was to be seen.

Shops
called me at this time to Naples. As pleasant to me otherwise the journey was would be, it
was me in my present-voltage highly compromised. Incessantly pursued I whisper the image of the
girl, in dreams as in waking, I heard the sweet voice. I had the chants in the chapel voted
so soft?

Had the fleeting image of Fine able, what the spirit and the beauty of so many others could
not about me?

Restless, I left. The journey, as many alternate belongings, the serious business The charm
of society, nothing gave me my peace again.

It was the time of carnival, when I returned to Rome. Could I hope the crowd the amount of the
item out of my desire? My English friends had left, I had no one to whom I might trust me. Without
hope, I had several days to expire, I could not move me to mingle with the delights of the carnival.

As
I was astonished, but when on the morning of the fourth day of the
carnival week, the Minister asked how I was amused yesterday.

I told him I was not in the parade. He was astonished, claimed to me from his car with a lady
on his arm saw and welcomed have to. He was silent, a little offended when I again said no. But suddenly
occurred to me the thought: What if it was the most sought?

- It was in all circles looking forward to this evening. A splendid masque, which Women had taken
over from the most noble Roman houses a role should the carnival glorify. I yielded to the insistence
of my friend and went in the parade.

Do not expect me any description of this play. At any other time I would have given him all my
attention, not only because it made me as popular entertainment been very interesting, but because
the character of the Romans, especially here at the most reveals. But when I say that out of the
whole evening, of all the glories of the parade only a shadow remained in my memory, and only
one bright star in the night appears, you will be forgiven, if I about the interesting spectacle of
your curiosity not sufficiently satisfy.

The long, narrow road was already filled when we came in through the
Porta del Popolo.

Unpredictable waves surged through the crowd each other, and the eye-guided unsatisfied about
it of time, because under the mixture of the most vivid colors found no point, it noted. The
expectation was tense. Everywhere you hear talk of the masquerade, which will soon would have to
close. A lavish applause now penetrated by the obelisk in the Piazza over here and announced the
entrance of the masks. All eyes turned to it. From the balconies skeletons and down waving towels
and waved them towards nice hands by the carriages on the sides urged to make the cars of the
train room. He approached. Certainly, a beautiful sight! The gods of ancient Rome seemed drawn back
into the old walls to be, to celebrate their triumph. Lovely, majestic groups! What a wonderful
outline in the figures of Apollo and Mars, how lovely Venus and Juno,
and you could not do it for Immodesty hold, but just had to see this
as the most beautiful triumph, when the People with the impetuosity
Goddesses called to remove the masks.

But the applause was endless, parvi as the countess, the noble forms of the face uncovered,
as Psyche approached. Truly, This charming earnestness, this gentle size would inspire a Zeuxis
and Praxiteles . Can

The evening approached, we made preparations to climb the scaffolding, because the horse race
should begin. I was pretty much left on the street, with wistful eyes the Galleries and balconies
scrutinizing whether my beauty is not to take it. Suddenly felt I have a slight blow on the
shoulder. 'So lonely? " sounded in the dear mother tongue sweet voice in my ear. I looked around.
A lovely mask in the clothing of a Tyrolean woman stood behind me.

Through the caves of the screen flashed those blue eyes that made me back then very surprised.
Ist's you - there is no doubt. I offered her hand in silence, she pressed quietly. 'You wicked
Otto,' she whispered, 'all night I've searched in vain. As I had to talk to the Signora rid of
them! "

The guard has withdrawn down the street. It was high time to look into the galleries. I pointed
up, she gave me her arm, she followed. Sombrero, a secret behind a pillar offered to represent,
they chose it of course, carnival, horse racing, all the beauties of Rome were for I lost when
my silent sky opened, as she took off the mask. Still sweet, infinitely more beautiful than she
was that night.

The delicate pallor, she then made the Chapel was brought, given way to a fine, transparent Roets,
the eye still beamed with higher gloss than it was then, and the deep, almost melancholy gravity
of the trains as they I then was, was tempered by a smile, the delicate and volatile, tender
to the lips was blowing. "

"She fixed again a few minutes in silence their eyes on my face, brushed my playing the hair from
his forehead, and then suddenly exclaimed: 'Now it's you all again!

Just as in That evening in the chapel, which you deny me so stubbornly! Admit it you know him
your Luise yet? "

"What pain, what should I say? Fell as suddenly the signal, the horses ran through the parade. My
Beautiful turned downward in the head, and I, my senses barely conversant, escaped behind the
next pillar, so as not in the moments before the unsuspecting girls as a goal or yet to appear
a little worse. And what I was different when I myself right asked seriously? What I wanted from
the girl, from what I could do it?

       And was not so much curiosity-driven crime?

"While I was still fought with myself whether it is more honest to give up an adventure the end
could only be a foolish, I noticed that my body occupied again was. I crept closer up to them, at
least to hear who the lucky one, as I did, without my immodest close to tell, could not see. "

'How
can you only ask so distracted? " Louise said, 'you even got me up out yes. "
'I would have led you, the moment that I step to you first? Confess,
you are betraying me, to you who has derived?

With close to self-conscious
voice, the tears, she insisted on what they said before. 'You are
well as our weather over the Alps, just ever so friendly, and now
so cold, so dark. "

That got up quickly, 'I'm not vote, madam, the
goal of your jokes to be, "he said," and if you delve into puzzles,
you will be my company annoying to be. " He got up and turned to go.
I could extend the suffering of the poor no longer and stepped out
behind the pillar to me as a resolution to show the puzzle. But how
was me! My own form, my own face, I thought I seen opposite. The surprising
resemblance - "

* * * * *

CHAPTER XV.

The Intermezzo .-- The drinkers.

A
terrible cry of anguish, a rattle, like lightning and thunder followed
one another, interrupted the narrator. What a sight! The Jew was sprawled
on the floor of the hall, ueberschuettet with tea, rubble of his chair
and the fine Meissen cup, which he shattered in the fall, around him.
The anger at such a break was written on every face, angry The ladies
turned their eyes from the spectacle of the men made no move to assist
him.

Thus therefore is our high priest within the holiest to offer incense upon the golden altar
of incense, that is, before the throne. Wherefore, when thou goest thither, even to 'the throne
of grace,' look for him, and be not content, though thou shouldst find God there, if thou findest
him not there, I suppose now an impossibility, for edification's sake, for without him nothing
can be done; I say, without him as a priest. He is the throne, and without him as a throne,
God has no resting-place as to us; he is a priest, and without him as such we can make no acceptable
approach to God; for by him as priest our spiritual sacrifices are accepted (1 Peter 2:5).
'By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually,--giving thanks,'
and confessing to and 'in his name' (Heb 13:15). And for our further edification herein, let
us consider, that as God has chosen and made him his throne of grace; so he has sworn, that
he shall be accepted as a priest for ever there. For his natural qualifications we may speak
something to them afterwards; in the meantime know, that there is no coming to God, upon pain
of death without him.

Nor will it out of my mind, but that his wearing the rainbow upon his head doth somewhat belong
to him as priest, his priestly vestments being for glory and beauty, as afore was said, compared
to the colour of it (Rev 10:1; Eze 1). But why doth he wear the rainbow upon his head; but
to show, that the sign, that the everlastingness of the covenant of grace is only to be found
in him; that he wears it as a mitre or frontlet of gold, and can always plead it with acceptance
to God, and for the subduing of the world and good of his people. But,

Thirdly, The throne of grace is to be known by the sacrifice that is presented there. Yea,
the priest was to take of the blood of his sacrifice, and sprinkle it seven times before the
Lord, that is, before the mercy-seat, or throne of grace; and was to put some of the blood
upon the horns of the altar of incense before the Lord (Lev 4:5-7, 16:13-15). So then the throne
of grace is known by the blood that is sprinkled thereon, and by the atonement that by it is
made there. I told you before that before the throne of grace there is our high-priest; and
now I tell you, there is his sacrifice too; his sacrifice which he there presenteth as amends
for the sins of all such as have a right to come with boldness to the throne of grace. Hence,
as I mentioned before, there is said to be in the midst of the throne, the same throne of which
we have spoken before, 'a lamb as it had been slain' (Rev 5:6). The words are to the purpose,
and signify that in the midst of the throne is our sacrifice, with the very marks of his death
upon him; showing to God that sitteth upon the throne, the holes of the thorns, of the nails,
of the spear; and how he was disfigured with blows and blood when at his command he gave himself
a ransom for his people; for it cannot be imagined that either the exaltation or glorification
of the body of Jesus Christ should make him forget the day in which he died the death for our
sins; specially since that which puts worth into his whole intercession is the death he died,
and the blood he shed upon the cross, for our trespasses.

Besides, there is no sight more taketh the heart of God, than to see of the travail of the
soul, and the bruisings of the body of his Son for our transgressions. Hence it is said, He
'is in the midst of the throne' as he died, or as he had been slain (Rev 7:17). It is said
again, 'The Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them.' The Lamb, that is, the
Son of God as a sacrifice, shall be always in the midst of the throne to feed and comfort his
people. He is the throne, he is the priest, he is the sacrifice. But then how as a Lamb is
he in the midst of the throne? Why, the meaning in mine opinion is, that Christ, as a dying
and bleeding sacrifice, shall be chief in the reconciling of us to God; or that his being offered
for our sins shall be of great virtue when pleaded by him as priest, to the obtaining of grace,
mercy, and glory for us (Heb 9:12). By his blood he entered into the holy place; by his blood
he hath made an atonement for us before the mercy-seat. His blood it is that speaketh better
for us than the blood of Abel did for Cain (Heb 12:24). Also it is by his blood that we have
bold admittance into the holiest (Heb 10:19). Wherefore no marvel if you find him here a Lamb,
as it had been slain, and that in the midst of the throne of grace.

While thou art therefore thinking on him, as he is the throne of grace, forget him not as he
is priest and sacrifice; for as a priest he makes atonement; but there is no atonement made
for sin without a sacrifice. Now, as Christ is a sacrifice, so he is to be considered as passive,
or a sufferer; as he is a priest, so he is active, or one that hath offered up himself; as
he is an altar, so he is to be considered as God; for in and upon the power of his Godhead
he offered up himself. The altar then was not the cross, as some have foolishly imagined. But
as a throne, a throne of grace; so he is to be considered as distinct from these three things,
as I also have hinted before. Wouldst thou then know this throne of grace, where God sits to
hear prayers and give grace? then cast the eyes of thy soul about, and look till thou findest
the Lamb there; a Lamb there 'as it had been slain,' for by this thou shalt know thou art right.
A slain Lamb, or a Lamb as it had been slain, when it is seen by a supplicant in the midst
of the throne, whither he is come for grace, is a blessed sight! A blessed sight indeed! And
it informs him he is where he should be.

And thou must look for this, the rather because without blood is no remission. He that thinks
to find grace at God's hand, and yet enters not into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, will
find himself mistaken, and will find a DEAD,[9] instead of 'a living way' (Heb 10:19). For
if not anything below, or besides blood, can yield remission on God's part, how should remission
be received by us without our acting faith therein? We are justified by his blood, through
faith in his blood (Rom 5:6-9). Wherefore, I say, look when thou approachest the throne of
grace, that thou give diligence to see for the Lamb; that is, 'as it had been slain' in the
midst of the throne of grace; and then thou wilt have, not only a sign that thou presentest
thy supplications to God, where, and as thou shouldst; but there also wilt thou meet with matter
to break, to soften, to bend, to bow, and to make thy heart as thou wouldst have it; for if
the blood of a goat will, as some say, dissolve an adamant, a stone that is harder than flint;[10]
shall not the sight of 'a Lamb as it had been slain' much more dissolve and melt down the spirit
of that man that is upon his knees before the throne of grace for mercy; especially when he
shall see, that not his prayers, not his tears, not his wants, but the blood of the Lamb, has
prevailed with a God of grace to give mercy and grace to an undeserving man? This then is the
third sign by which thou shalt know when thou art at the throne of grace: that throne is sprinkled
with blood; yea, in the midst of that throne there is to be seen to this day, a Lamb as it
had been slain; and he is in the midst of it, to feed those that come to that throne, and to
lead them by and to 'living fountains of waters' (Rev 7:17). Wherefore,

Fourth. The throne of grace is to be known, by the streams of grace that continually proceed
therefrom, and that like a river run themselves out into the world. Mark you, here is again
a throne; the throne of God, which, as we have showed, is the human nature of his Son; out
of which, as you read, proceeds a river, a river of water of life, clear as crystal. And the
joining of the Lamb also here with God is to show that it comes, I say, from God, by the Lamb;
by Christ, who as a lamb or sacrifice for sin, is the procuring cause of the running of this
river; it proceedeth out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. Behold, therefore, how carefully
here the Lamb is brought in, as one from or through whom proceeds the water of life to us.
God is the spring-head; Christ the golden pipe of conveyance; the elect the receivers of this
water of life. He saith not here, 'the throne of the Lamb,' but 'and of the Lamb, to show,
I say, that he it is out of or through whom this river of grace should come.' But and if it
should be understood that it proceedeth from the throne of the Lamb, it may be to show that
Christ also has power as a mediator, to send grace like a river into the church. And then it
amounts to this, that God, for Christ's sake, gives this river of grace, and that Christ, for
his merits sake, has power to do so too. For Christ has power with the Father to give grace
and forgiveness of sins to men (John 5:21-26; Mark 2:10). But let us come to the terms in this
text. Here we have a throne, a throne of grace; and to show that this throne is it indeed,
therefore there proceeds therefrom a river of this grace, put here under the term of 'water
of life,' a term fit to express both the nature of grace and the condition of him that comes
for it to the throne of grace.

It is called by the name of water of life, to show what a reviving cordial the grace of God
in Christ is, shall be, and will be found to be, of all those that by him shall drink thereof.
It shall be in him, even in him that drinks it, 'a well of water springing up into everlasting
life' (John 4:14). It will therefore beget life, and maintain it; yea, will itself be a spring
of life, in the very heart of him that drinks it. Ah! it will be such a preservative also to
spiritual health, as that by its virtue the soul shall for ever be kept, I say, the soul that
drinks it, from total and final decay; it shall be in them a well of living water, springing
up into everlasting life.

But there is also by this phrase or term briefly touched the present state of them that shall
come hither to drink; they are not the healthful, but the sick. It is with the throne of grace,
as it is with the Bath, and other places of sovereign and healing waters, they are most coveted
of them that are diseased, and do also show their virtues on those that have their health and
limbs; so, I say, is the throne of grace; its waters are for healing, for soul-healing, that
is their virtue (Eze 47:8,9). Wherefore, as Joseph washed his face, and dried his tears away,
when he saw his brother Benjamin, so all God's saints shall here, even at the throne of grace,
where God's Benjamin, or the Son of his right hand, is, wash their souls from sorrow, and have
their tears wiped from their eyes. Wherefore, O thou that are diseased, afflicted, and that
wouldst live, come by Jesus to God as merciful and gracious; yea, look for this river when
thou art upon thy knees before him, for by that thou shalt find whereabout is the throne of
grace, and so where thou mayest find mercy.

But again, as that which proceeds out of this throne of grace is called 'water of life,' so
it is said to be a river, a river of water of life. This, in the first place, shows, that with
God is plenty of grace, even as in a river there is plenty of water; a pond, a pool, a cistern,
will hold much, but a river will hold more; from this throne come rivers and streams of water
of life, to satisfy those that come for life to the throne of God. Further, as by a river is
showed what abundance of grace proceeds from God through Christ, so it shows the unsatiable
thirst and desire of one that comes indeed aright to the throne of grace for mercy. Nothing
but rivers will satisfy such a soul; ponds, pools, and cisterns, will do nothing: such an one
is like him of whom it is said, 'Behold he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not; he trusteth
that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth' (Job 40:23). And hence it is said again, 'When the
poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst, I the Lord
will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them.' But, Lord, how wilt thou quench
their boundless thirst? Behold here is a pool of water as big as a wilderness, enough one would
think to satisfy any thirsty soul. O, but that will not do! wherefore he will open rivers,
fountains, and springs, and all this is to quench the drought of one that thirsteth for the
grace of God, that they have enough.

This abundance the throne of grace yieldeth for the help and health of such as would have the
water of life to drink, and to cure their diseases withal: it yields a river of water of life.
Moreover, since grace is said here to proceed as a river from the throne of God and of the
Lamb, it is to show the commonness of it; rivers you know are common in the stream, however
they are at the head (Judg 5). And to show the commonness of it, the apostle calls it 'the
common salvation'; and it is said in Ezekiel and Zecharias, to go forth to the desert, and
into the sea, the world, to heal the beasts and fish of all kinds that are there (Eze 47:8;
Zech 14:8). This, therefore, is a text that shows us what it is to come to a throne, where
the token of the covenant of grace is, where the high priest ministereth, and in the midst
of which there is a Lamb, 'as it had been slain': for from thence there cometh not drops, nor
showers, but rivers of the grace of God, a river of water of life.

Again, as the grace that we here read of is said, as it comes from this throne, to come as
a river of water of life; so it is said to be pure and clear as crystal. Pure is set in opposition
to muddy and dirty waters, and clear is set in opposition to those waters that are black, by
reason of the cold and icyish nature of them; therefore there is conjoined to this phrase the
word crystal, which all know is a clear and shining stone (Eze 34:19; Job 6:15,16). Indeed
the life and spirit that is in this water, will keep it from looking black and dull; and the
throne from whence it comes will keep it from being muddy, so much as in the streams thereof.
'The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it' (Prov 10:22). Indeed,
all the sorrow that is mixed with our Christianity, it proceedeth, as the procuring cause,
from ourselves, not from the throne of grace; for that is the place where our tears, as was
showed you, are wiped away; and also where we hang up our crutches. The streams thereof are
pure and clear, not muddy nor frozen, but warm and delightful, and that 'make glad the city
of God' (Psa 46).

These words also show us, that this water of itself can do without a mixture of anything of
ours. What comes from this throne of grace is pure grace, and nothing else; clear grace, free
grace, grace that is not mixed, nor need be mixed with works of righteousness which we have
done; it is of itself sufficient to answer all our wants, to heal all our diseases, and to
help us at a time of need. It is grace that chooses, it is grace that calleth, it is grace
that preserveth, and it is grace that brings to glory: even the grace that like a river of
water of life proceedeth from this throne. Look then for these signs of the throne of grace,
all you that would come to it, and rest not, until by some of them you know that you are even
come to it; they are all to be seen have you but eyes; and the sight of them is very delectable,
and has a natural tendency in them, when seen, to revive and quicken the soul. But,

Fifth. As the throne of grace is known and distinguished by the things above named, so it is
by the effects which these things have wrought. There is about that throne 'four and twenty
seats, and upon the seats four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment, and they
have on their heads crowns of gold' (Rev 4:4). There is no throne that has these signs and
effects belonging to it but this; wherefore, as by these signs, so by the effects of them also,
one may know which is, and so when he is indeed come to the throne of grace. And a little as
we commented upon what went before, we will also touch upon this.

1. By seats, I understand places of rest and dignity; places of rest, for that they that sit
on them do rest from their labours; and places of dignity, for that they are about the throne
(Rev 14:13). 'And the four and twenty elders which sat before God on their seats, fell upon
their faces and worshipped God' (Rev 11:16). And forasmuch as the seats are mentioned, before
they are mentioned that sat thereon, it is to show, that the places were prepared before they
were converted.

2. The elders, I take to be the twelve patriarchs and the twelve apostles, or the first fathers
of the churches; for they are the elders of both the churches, that is, both of the Jewish
and Gentile church of God; they are the ancients, as also they are called in the prophet Isaiah,
which are in some sense the fathers of both these churches (Isa 24:23). These elders are well
set forth by that four and twenty that you read of in the book of Chronicles, who had every
one of them for sons twelve in number. There therefore the four and twenty are (1 Chron 25:8-31).

3. Their sitting denoteth also their abiding in the presence of God. 'Sit thou at my right
hand,' was the Father's word to the Son, and also signifieth the same (Psa 110:1). It is then
the throne of grace where the four and twenty seats are, and before which the four and twenty
elders sit.

4. Their white robes are Christ's righteousness, their own good works and glory; not that their
works brought them thither, for they were of themselves polluted, and were washed white in
the blood of the Lamb; but yet God will have all that his people have done in love to him to
be rewarded. Yea, and they shall wear their own labours, being washed as afore is hinted, as
a badge of their honour before the throne of grace, and this is grace indeed. 'They have washed
their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb, therefore are they before the throne
of God' (Rev 7:14,15). They have washed as others did do before them.

5. 'And they had on their heads crowns of gold' (Rev 4:4). This denotes their victory, and
also that they are kings, and as kings shall reign with him for ever and ever (Rev 5:10).

6. But what! were they silent? did they say, did they do nothing while they sat before the
throne? Yes, they were appointed to be singers there. And no sooner have you made up for it, so you bring everything again against
you on. What went up because of the S chwabenmaedel that you its beauty preacher at the tea-tables
of Berlin? Are you allowed for even in China say a more beautiful, they have a Teegesicht? And
now that you inserted the pointed words of the ungracious woman had, now, than anything in the
first sensible issue that was dealt with this evening, listened, now you fall, as the late high
priest Eli in the second chapter of Samuel, ruecklings in the room and shatter - not his own hollow
skull, like that worthy Jewish Pope - no! a delicately carved armchair and a cup of Meissner porcelain,
say, ie, poor fellow, how did you like it just started? "

"In your place, Mr. Satan, I would not be so arrogant to our kind," he said peevish. "You know
that you deserve no power over my soul, because for fifteen hundred Years, I know your tricks and intrigues
well. As for the Elis-story, I will I come clean with you, provided your help to me in an inn,
for the laepperige tea here, with the one in China, rinse the cups would barely, with the worst
yet Arrack, have made me very miserable. "

I left before a restaurateur, and brought in to keep the doctor after an accident Mucker. It
was pretty late at night, and only a few, but real drinkers in the host room. We sat at a table for
four or five of these nocturnal companions and I left Apply for the elderly Burgundy, and
in fluent Malabar, of which the drinker certainly did not understand, I asked him to tell.

After the Wandering Jew had recovered by several sips, he began:

"I think it is a part of the curse that is upon me, that I, as soon
as I am in higher Spheres of society dare to be ridiculous, a few
examples will suffice you.

"You know that I, to give me the boredom of life on earth, sometimes a love affair looking for
- well, tarry your face but not so ironically, I am a stereotype edition of a strong Five Goats,
and such may already have venture onto the ice. Now had I once in a small Saxon town of a beautiful
girl on the grain. I had access for several days in the parental home, and the little coquette
I did not even averse. I dressed carefully in order to please her, I scherwenzelte around her, when
she went walking in short, I was so arrant fool, as ever about the patch went from Leipzig. In
the town it was fashionable, in the morning at nine clock in the house The beautiful pass
by, she looked out, so with grace, the hat and pulled something little
sigh.

"This I had been noticed and soon moved to their best now, when the bell buzzed neun clock,
in that house over, and I had the pleasure to see how my angel for each window looked out and
smiled graciously. One morning it is very muddy on the road, I was therefore to preserve the
white silk stockings on his toes and made steps like a tap. But before the house of my nice
was the dirt cleanly into large clusters swept up, because the dad was a kind of police inspector
and the residents had give a good example, how my heart rejoiced over this cleanliness! I was
there solid experience, I could with his right leg when I made my compliments, delicate , Without
extravagance to spot me. My angel looked down graciously, joyful, I prefer the hat of the beautiful
curled toupee Schwenke him in a bold arch and - o accident - he escaped from my hand, it drives
like an arrow in the piled rubbish, that only the head looks out.

  
  "How beautiful
  Schiller says:

'A
  look After the grave His property Sends the man behind.

"

"So I stood thunderstruck at the debris. If I was in delicate position
with the fingertips Pull out the hat?

But it was feared that he was completely ruined, should I completely chapeau bas move on, as
one who sprung the gallows without a hat or a madhouse?

"As a silver Feuergloeckchen now the merry laughter of my Dulcinea strikes my Ear, muttering
as the heavy death knell, the Grabgelaeute hope my answer, ten Basses from the cafe opposite; hussar
lieutenant, clerk, shouting merchants from the wide-open windows, and 'Hussa, Sultan, seek lost! "
dyes his voice of my most formidable rival, the Count Lobau.

An English bulldog from Menschenlaenge out come crashing down, grabs the lost hat with a practiced
nose, runs up to me, stood up on its hind legs, groping with his paws on my shoulders and
presented me the dripping corpus delicti.

"What I told you here with many words, my friend, was the work of a moment; frozen as I was standing
there, and gave only the intrusiveness of the polite dog my composure. Whinnying, jubilant laughter
echoed from the coffee house, and also her in all the windows were angefuellt with laughter,
and when I, an affectionate glance the recent run up, left, I saw how she put the handkerchief
into his mouth Battiste, not to burst out laughing. Then I lost again by the text; angry I grabbed
the Hat and hit him in the face of the Great Dane, but the beast knew no fun, she packed I,
on the delicate breast strips, I let her spoils and this made me
haste them, through thick and thin galloping, but followed the beast,
and other dogs and urchins crashed after, and the horrible hunt took
only one end, as I breathlessly into the portal crashed my inn.

"The fact that it was with my love out, you can imagine, especially
since I found out after that Coquette had ordered all their worshipers
at this hour in the cafe to get my daily window to admire Parade!

"

I pitied the poor of heart, but he calmly picked up his glass, drank, and then continued:

"Can you assure as scoundrels, it was always me, but especially in the new enlightened age,
where you so very much holds on the propriety and despair would like, if the excellent hoop
skirt of etiquette is a little touched roughly. Therefore it is hoellenangst me at a banquet ever.
Sauce is fat around given, I see in spirit, that I tremble so and they'll spill. Then comes the
begging of me to me breaks from the cold sweat, the gravy boat rattle terribly in my trembling
hand it varies, I'm going after that with his other hand and - right, my friendly neighbor
has the whole bag of tricks on the new Drap d'or Genoese velvet, that everything swimming
in the most beautiful fat. But I have finally gone through such a Fegefeuertour, without spilling
sauce, without knocking down a glass without dropping a spoon, connect without the lap dog
on the tail, the daughter of the house the largest Sottisen to say
if I want to be polite and spicy, so I edited some mischief still
for Conclusion that I may depart in shame today.

"

"Well," I said, "and what threw up because today middle of the room?"

"When the boring man lift of his narrative, as he had a couple of priests hear sing and how he
had gone after a pretty girl - what you can do anywhere, without just in Rome to be - because
I overcame the boredom that is one of my evil, and so I sat down
to entertain me in my chair, rocking me backwards movement very pleasant.

Suddenly, before I was aware, the chair hit me backwards over, and I was - "

"I have unfortunately seen how you were lying," I said, "but how can you only respectable Society
so completely forget all the good manners and rocking his chair. "

"Be quiet now, and bring me to the damn story, I have this evening no luck made, that's all.
Bibamus Diabolik, "said the old man by himself working sample with a grin then went ahead
and pointed to the dark red glass: "It's kosher, brother, good Burgundy, Chambertin real and
at least twenty years old.

You may laugh at me now or not is a good old Weinchen of Suedstamme
but still my passion, and I maintain that the world is now just about
as bad from, because so much tea, spirits and beer, but the less wine
is drunk.

"

"You could have quite a Jew!"

"How handsome," he continued, in the heat, "such as stately else took from the Wirtshaeuser. Broad,
stocky, strong build, the three-pointed hat, set a little on the side, red faces, fiery eyes,
bluish playing noses, bellies respectable - they were, the high, gold-studded sea pipe in hand,
solemnly into the room in greeting. If the hat hung on a nail, the floor was put in the corner, walked
the guest is well known Sombrero, to which he had for years made their own and often named after
him was. The landlord presented with an 'Enjoy your meal', the wine jug from the respectable drinkers
who habitual cup neighbors gathered at the appointed hour, they drank a lot, we talked little
and went back home at the appointed hour. So it was in the good old days, like the People say
the count by years, so it was only death and made it a change. Now they all hang on the wall
to make state like the princes and the hosts to sit two pence off the benches. Funny, restless
mob runs around in the Wirtshaeusern, you never know everything,
next to whom one comes to sit, and the names of the people osmopo
K litismu s. Maximum meet some old wine green face of the real variety,
But this race is almost extinct!

"

"Look there," I remembered him, "Are you crying in the desert, sit there a couple of rights. Just look at
the small little man there in the brown coat, as is so fiery red eyes roll forth over the bottle
can. It seems to me a true connoisseur, because he drinks the kidney stone Kirchhof wine he
has before him, in very small trains and crushed him to properly the tongue, before he swallows.
And there the big fat man with the red nose, he is not a character from the old days? If he does
not see the glass in the whole fist, instead of the current the small and delicate gold finger
stretch?

If it is not already at the fourth bottle, since we are here and have you not noticed how he always
puts the cork in the bag to count later, how many bottles he drank? "

"Truly, these are real!" exclaimed the enthusiastic Jew, "I have been young and old become but
there are not many such, let us put them to us, mi fratercule!

We were advised not to fail. Those drinkers were true of the sort, because for twenty Years,
they came every night into the same inn. One can imagine how happy
we We joined them.

I do because I love those owls and exploration, the Wandering Jew, however, because the contrast
between the elegant tea drinkers and those in favor of his eyes very the latter failed. He
was so cordial that he seemed to forget that he, with their Forefathers had been drinking, that
maybe he would drink with their grandchildren again late.

  The old fellow might now have their
    charge, for they were friendly, and began
  to First to hum softly to himself,
    then this is designed to hum a tune
  and finally they sang in a hoarse
    throat wine their usual songs. Even
  the old people summarized this desire.
    He tootled with the melodies, and when they had finished, he began
his Lied to.

He sang:
    
  "If his body while I count age After
    nights, he watched through happy Who,
  if he is wanting and the coins,
    Fun at the penny makes The place in
  us his people, Let him be greeted
    us as brothers, Because he, like us, the God of joy In closing his
gentle arms.

    
  When cradled gently by the dance, From
    Floetentoenen sweet intoxicated Dear
  love to schmieget in arms And look
    for love look is exchanged; Since
  we have enjoyed in flight, And quickly
    caught the moment And heart firmly closed on the heart The lips nibbled
sweet greeting.

    
  The wine can pay you with gold, But
    his fire is quickly cooled, If not the God in his rays, In his Geisterglut
up appeared; To us who sing his hymns, We lit up before its flame,
And on the wings free Toene Increases our spirit to spirit up.

    
  Drum, which her friends happy words
    A worthy voice rises, You, I greet you, surging chords That you float
down to us!

    
  They appear - they float down, In
    the full tone of voice murmurs,
  And lovely echoes in our songs The full
    Glaeser party sound.
  
    How we have always held And remain henceforth also in the process
And the world may become obsolete to us We remain eternally young
and new: Then once the mind is muddy, us We have it in old wine, And
go with song and love In our joy of heaven.

"

Whether this was the Wandering Jew's own poetry, I can not say for certain, but he let me noted
that he was a little poet at times, the two old wine spirits were
very satisfied and built them, they pushed the old PEOPLE hand and
behaved, as he would have them eternal salvation proclaimed.

It struck on the clock three quarters before twelve.

  The Eternal Jew looked at me and broke
    up; I followed. Touching was
  the farewell between us and the
    drinkers, and even on the street we heard singing their raucous voices
in strange sounds:

"And once the mind is muddy, us We bathe him in
the old wine, And go with song and love In our joy of heaven.

       "

* * * * *

SATAN'S VISIT TO LORD OF GOETHE

together with

some introductory
remarks about the diabolical in German literature.

  
  "From time to time, see I like the old
  And I am careful not to break with him, It
  is very pretty from a great man, So human to speak
                                       with the devil himself.

" Goethe.

CHAPTER XVI.

Remarks about the diabolical in German literature.

"The idea of ​​a devil is as old as the world and not only by the Bible to the people come. Each
religion has its demons and evil spirits - of course, because people
have sinned from the beginning and even after their usual anthropomorphism
evil they saw, attributed to a spirit whose business it is to wreak
havoc everywhere "-.

This I would talk about if I would have brought it up to the professor of philosophy And now about
the I deeeines T would have to make wide eufels me.

In my position, but I dye over such demonstrations that habitually run out that they are recruiting
me to dispute with Decalogue reasons of time, I laugh and say, the people so stupid they might
be here and there, but soon remember if it was not quite geheuerumsieher, and they like me now
or Ahriman the evil principle, Satan or Mr. Urian call, they know me in all peoples and languages.
It is an nice thing about the "Medici hic est, 'so I like that speak
the German literature so much.

Have not the greatest minds of this nation to make efforts to glorify me, and if I not already would
be to make me forever?

In my Dissertatio de rebus diabolicis I say here about including the following: "Paragraph 8. T he
I dee, dasmoralische V erderbenineiner P ers ondarzustellen, musstesichdaherden D ichternhal
baufdraengen, which were, as it was mostly the case in Germany, philosophical formed, but it
was their philosophy as their moral of that vast, thick variety, are not to glide with ease over
objects white, so it was that the structure their philosophical imagination that lead to the feet wore,
she did not with skill let occur, they stumbled onto the stage and the stage, spread through philosophemes,
of the Tenth did not understand at once, and turned and turned, as
they should on a narrow bridge with no railings in Reifroecken avoid
each other.

Hence it was that the devil of these poets were recorded throughout.

Consider eg Klinger Satan. How many bombast, this poor devil in hell first, and then herzuleiern
on Earth!

Blade's devil!

Is not believed that he had only him quickly out of the puppets from the Road brought him
stretched out his limbs until he had the right size, and put it inside the scene set? Man
does not understand how a man should abandon such a monster misled. "

There are several such literary monsters, not the place to be listed
allowed.

They have all given me has always been fun, and I felt many times as the Policinello of the
Italian comedy, I was with these people, a standing figure, if somewhat differently dressed up,
but always stuck out the horns, and which is in better knowledge of an Ecce homo, behold, that
is the devil wrote.

But even the devil can you have justice, says an old proverb that is why the devil for revenge
and to be fair again. "Everyone is, as he's can" I drove away in the dissertation, and how those
poets in the moral corruption in abspiegelte each other again in reflections, it also gave them
their devil. Hence it is that Mr. Urian in Klopstock again far different looks.

"That is a fallen angel Abaddon, the hell-fire singed the wings, the But even now is to exclude
more noble and worthy. But unfortunately this purpose, but a little wrong, this happens to me at least
Klopstocksche Evil One as an elegant, who, expelled for bad behavior from the salons in the Tabagie
spies and civic clubs not to find really know about indecent and moans. "

Or less how I talked myself out in that scholarly dissertation, and
I give some today, that considers how each idea, including that of
the devil, on the individual views the poet of evil must be directed,
which means all but apologized to those famous Man who by virtue of
his comprehensive genius, not the narrow confines of his country or
Range of time in which he lives, but all belonged to the earth and
future centuries could, it did not excuse the fact that he has made
such a poor devil to the world.

The G M oethesche ephistopheles is nothing more than that horned and tailed bugbear of the
people. The tail and he has rolled up their pants put, for the Bocksfuesse he has attracted
elegant boots that he has horns under the beret hidden - Behold the Devil of the great poet!
It is my object: "The just so is the great art of man to know that a thousand threads weave
through the his bold idea of ​​his high-flown ideas of the people living on the Folk poetry
."--" builds support, friend! Is it a man who, as they say, so high above its object is to restrain
himself and never leaves him, it's such a poet worthy that it nestles in the shackles of popularity?
Should not the royal Adler this people at his popular Schopf take
and carry with him into his sun height?

"

"Forgive me, dearest friend," I get the answer, "you forget that many among this people wears
a wig, would not be in such danger that he break the braid and he half-height back to earth
falls? Look! the master has the intent better, he has made those thousands of threads, of which
I told you, a rope ladder, braided, to which his disciples neatly and safely climb up to him.
But the master setteth her into his ark, like Noah, he hangs with
them about the present time Suendflut and looks calm as a god in the
rain out, flowing from the pens of young poets.

"

"A picture Ammonia water!" I reply, "and also a Sottise. was because at that Ark cattle not more
than men?

And does the master to wait until the tide during the and then his Stierlein and his donkey,
his peacocks and camels pair and pair to the ground can walk?

"Will he might, like the Patriarch, the invention of wine ascribe to a patent can issue about
it and write about his inn: 'Here alone is Real to have 'such as Maria Farina on his cologne, so
for all the damage is good? "

But to get back on the Mephistopheles, just by being such a very popular and common devil gave
Goethe has obviously nothing to the dignity of his most beautiful
Poem won.

He will indeed bring attract many readers, this Mephisto, many thousands will exclaim: "How
wonderful this is the devil, as he lives and breathes!."

To the rest Beauty of the poem they care very little and are content that it finally Once
a character in literature is that its sphere is appropriate.

"But you do not recognize, then," I will be told, "you do not recognize
the beautiful, deep Irony, which is precisely in this Mephistopheles?

  "
  
  Irony? And what?

I see nothing in this my likeness as a Knight of the common the horse's
foot, as described in each spinning room.

  Allow me this picture yet closer to light.

I am introduced to wit, a spirit that can be summoned After the magical
laws must be addressed:

"Confess, I's just that I also take a walk,
Prohibits me a small obstacle The pentagram on your threshold; "

and
to break the threshold spell

"I need a rat tooth;"

therefore ordered

"The
Lord of the rats and mice, The flies, frogs, bugs, lice "

  
  

In a magic formula to his subservient vermin edge that which banishes
him to gnaw.
The body of Christ is the tabernacle of God, and so that in which God dwells; for the fulness
of the Godhead dwells in him bodily (Col 2:9). Therefore, as also has been hinted before, Christ
Jesus is the throne of grace. Now, since his flesh is called the veil, it is evident that the
glory that dwells within him, to wit, God resting in him, cannot be understood but by them
that by faith can look through, or enter through, his flesh to that glory. For the glory is
within the veil; there is the mercy-seat, or throne of grace; there sitteth God as delighted,
as at rest, in and with sinners, that come to him by and through that flesh, and the offering
of it for sin without the gate. 'I am the way,' saith Christ; but to what? and how? (John 14:6).
Why, to the Father, through my flesh. And you that were sometime alienated, and enemies in
your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled [but how?] in the body of his flesh,
[that then must be first: to what?] to present you holy and unblameable, and unreprovable in
his sight' (Col 1:20-22). That is, when you enter into his presence, or approach by this flesh,
the mercy-seat, or the throne of grace.

This therefore is the manner of our coming, if we come aright to the throne of grace for mercy,
we must come by blood through his flesh, as through the veil; by which, until you have entered
through it, the glory of God, and that he is resolved that grace shall reign, will be utterly
hid from your eyes. I will not say, but by the notion of these things, men may have their whirling
fancies,[17] and may create to themselves wild notions and flattering imaginations of Christ,
the throne of grace, and of glory; but the gospel knowledge of this is of absolute necessity
to my right coming to the throne of grace for mercy. I must come by his blood, through his
flesh, or I cannot come at all, for here is no back door. This then is the sum, Christ's body
is the tabernacle, the holiest; 'thy law,' saith he, 'is within my heart,' or in the midst
of my bowels (Psa 40:7,8). In this tabernacle then God sitteth, to wit, on the heart of Christ,
for that is the throne of grace. Through this tabernacle men must enter, that is, by a godly
understanding of what by this tabernacle or flesh of Christ has been done to reconcile us to
God that dwells in him. This is the way, all the way, for there is no way but this to come
to the throne of grace. This is the new way into the heavenly paradise, for the old way is
hedged and ditched up by the flaming sword of cherubims (Gen 3:24). The NEW and LIVING way,
for to go the other is present death; so then, this 'new and living way which he hath consecrated
for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,' is the only way into the holiest, where
the throne of grace is (Heb 10:20).

SECOND. We must approach this throne of grace, as having our hearts, first, sprinkled from
an evil conscience. The priest that was the representator of all Israel, when he went into
the holiest, was not to go in, but as sprinkled with blood first (Exo 29). Thus it is written
in t he law; 'not without blood'; and thus it is written in the gospel (Heb 9:7). And now since
by the gospel we have all admittance to enter in through the veil, by faith, we must take heed
that we enter not in without blood; for if the blood, virtually, be not seen upon us, we die,
instead of obtaining mercy, and finding the help of grace. This I press the oftener, because
there is nothing to which we are more naturally inclined, than to forget this. Who, that understands
himself, is not sensible how apt he is to forget to act faith in the blood of Jesus, and to
get his conscience sprinkled with the virtue of that, that attempteth to approach the throne
of grace? Yet the scripture calls upon us to take heed that we neglect not THUS to prepare
ourselves. In the law all the people were to be sprinkled with blood, and it was necessary
that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these, that is, with the
blood of bulls, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these, that
is, with the offering of the body, and shedding of the blood of Christ. By this then must thou
be purified and sprinkled, who by Christ wouldst approach the throne of grace.

THIRD. Therefore it is added, 'And our bodies washed with pure water.' This the apostle taketh
also out of the law; where it was appointed, as was showed before. Christ also, just before
he went to the Father, gave his disciples a signification of this, saying to Peter, and by
him to all the rest, 'If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me' (John 13:8). This pure
water is nothing but the wholesome doctrine of the word mixed with Spirit, by which, as the
conscience was before sprinkled with blood, the body and outward conversation is now sanctified
and made clean. 'Now ye are clean through the word,' saith Christ, 'which I have spoken unto
you' (John 15:3). Hence, washing, and sanctifying, and justifying, are put together, and are
said to come by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the Spirit of our God (1 Cor 6:11).
Here you are bid to come boldly, and are also showed how that may be done. It may be done through
the blood of sprinkling, and through the sanctifying operations of the Spirit which are here
by faith to be received. And when what can be said shall be said to the utmost, there is no
boldness, godly boldness, but by blood. The more the conscience is a stranger to the sprinkling
of blood, the further off it is of being rightly bold with God, at the throne of grace; for
it is the blood that makes the atonement, and that gives boldness to the soul (Lev 17:11; Heb
10:19). It is the blood, the power of it by faith upon the conscience, that drives away guilt,
and so fear, and consequently that begetteth boldness. Wherefore, he that will be bold with
God at the throne of grace, must first be well acquainted with the doctrine of the blood of
Christ; namely, that it was shed, and why, and that it has made peace with God, and for whom.
Yea, thou must be able by faith to bring thyself within the number of those that are made partakers
of this reconciliation, before thou canst come boldly to the throne of grace. But,

[What it is to come to the throne of grace without boldness.]

First. There is a coming to the throne of grace before or without this boldness; but that is
not the coming to which by these texts we are exhorted; yet that coming, be it never so deficient,
if it is right, it is through some measure an inlet into the death and blood of Christ, and
through some management, though but very little, or perhaps scarce at all discerned of the
soul, to hope for grace from the throne; I say, it must arise, the encouragement must, from
the cross, and from Christ as dying there. Christ himself went that way to God, and it is not
possible but we must go the same way too. So, then, the encouragement, be it little, be it
much--and it is little or much, even as the faith is in strength or weakness, which apprehendeth
Christ--it is according to the proportion of faith; strong faith gives great boldness, weak
faith doth not so, nor can it.

Second. There is a sincere coming to the throne of grace without this boldness, even a coming
in the uprightness of one's heart without it. Hence a true heart and full assurance are distinguished.
'Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith' (Heb 10:22). Sincerity may
be attended with a great deal of weakness, even as boldness may be attended with pride; but
be it what kind of coming to the throne of grace it will, either a coming with boldness, or
with that doubting which is incident to saints, still the cause of that coming, or ground thereof,
is some knowledge of redemption by blood, redemption which the soul seeth it has faith in,
or would see it has faith in. For Christ is precious, sometimes in the sight of the worth,
sometimes in the sight of the want, and sometimes in the sight of the enjoyment of him.[18]

Third. There is an earnest coming to the throne of grace even with all the desire of one's
soul. When David had guilt and trouble, and that so heavy that he knew not what to do, yet
he could say, 'Lord, all my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid from thee' (Psa
38:1-9). He could come earnestly to the throne of grace; he could come thither with all the
desire of his soul: but still this must be from that knowledge that he had of the way of remission
of sins by the blood of the Son of God.

Fourth. There is also a constant coming to the throne of grace. Here you see is constant crying
before the throne of grace, crying night and day; and yet the man that cries seems to be in
a very black cloud, and to find hard work to bear up in his soul; yet this he had, namely,
the knowledge of how God was the God of salvation; yea, he called him his God as such, though
with pretty much difficulty of spirit, to be sure. Wherefore it must not be concluded, that
they come not at all to the throne of grace, that come not with a full assurance; or that men
must forbear to come, till they come with assurance; but this I say, they come not at all aright,
that take not the ground of their coming from the death and blood of Christ; and that they
that come to the throne of grace, with but little knowledge of redemption by blood, will come
with but little hope of obtaining grace and mercy to help in time of need.

I conclude then, that it is the privilege, the duty and glory of a man, to approach the throne
of grace as a prince, as Job said, could he but find it, he would be sure to do. Will he plead
against me with his great power? No; but he would put strength in me. There the righteous might
dispute with him: so should I be delivered for ever from my judge' (23:3-7). Indeed, God sometimes
tries us. 'He holdeth back,' sometimes, 'the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud upon
it' (Job 26:9). And this seems to be Job's case here, which made him to confess he was at a
loss, and to cry out, 'O that I knew where I might find him!' And this he doth for trial, and
to prove our honesty and constancy; for the hypocrite will not pray always. Will he always
call upon God? No, verily; especially not when thou bindest them, afflictest them, and makest
praying hard work to them (Job 36:13).

But difficulty as to finding of God's presence, and the sweet shining of the face of his throne,
doth not always lie in the weakness of faith. Strong faith may be in this perplexity, and may
be hard put to it to stand at times. It is said here, that God did hold back the face of his
throne, and did spread a cloud upon it; not to weaken Job's faith, but to try Job's strength,
and to show to men of after ages how valiant a man Job was. Faith, if it be strong, will play
the man in the dark; will, like a mettled horse, flounce in bad way, will not be discouraged
at trials, at many or strong trials: 'Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him,' is the language
of that invincible grace of God (Job 13:15). There is also an aptness in those that come to
the throne of grace, to cast all degrees of faith away, that carrieth not in its bowels self-evidence
of its own being and nature, thinking that if it be faith, it must be known to the soul; yea,
if it be faith, it will do so and so: even so as the highest degrees of faith will do. Thus
now have I showed you the manner of right coming to the throne of grace, for mercy and grace
to help in time of need.

[None but the godly know the throne of grace.]

The next thing that I am to handle, is, first, To show you, that it is the privilege of the
godly to distinguish from all thrones whatsoever this throne of grace. This, as I told you,
I gathered from the apostle in the text, for that he only maketh mention thereof, but gives
no sign to distinguish it by; no sign, I say, though he knew that there were more thrones than
it. 'Let us come boldly,' saith he, 'to the throne of grace,' and so leaves it, knowing full
well that they had a good understanding of his meaning, being Hebrews (Heb 9:1-8). They being
now also enlightened from what they were taught by the placing of the ark of the testimony,
and the mercy-seat in the most holy place; of which particular the apostle did then count it,
not of absolute necessity distinctly to discourse. Indeed the Gentiles, as I have showed, have
this throne of grace described and set forth before them, by those tokens which I have touched
upon in the sheets that go before--for with the book of Revelation the Gentiles are particularly
concerned--for that it was writ to churches of the Gentiles; also the great things prophesied
of there relate unto Gentile-believers, and to the downfall of Antichrist, as he standeth among
them.

But yet, I think that John's discourse of the things attending the throne of grace were not
by him so much propounded, because the Gentiles were incapable of finding of it without such
description, as to show the answerableness of the antitype with the type; and also to strengthen
their faith, and illustrate the thing; for they that know, may know more, and better of what
they know; yea, may be greatly comforted with another's dilating on what they know. Besides,
the Holy Ghost by the word doth always give the most perfect description of things; wherefore
to that we should have recourse for the completing of our knowledge. I mean not, by what I
say, in the least to intimate, as if this throne of grace was to be known without the text,
for it is that that giveth revelation of Jesus Christ: but my meaning is, that a saint, as
such, has such a working of things upon his heart, as makes him able by the Word to find out
this throne of grace, and to distinguish it to himself from others. For,

First. The saint has strong guilt of sin upon his conscience, especially at first; and this
makes him better judge what grace, in the nature of grace, is, than others can that are not
sensible of what guilt is. What it was to be saved, was better relished by the jailor when
he was afraid of and trembled at the apprehensions of the wrath of God, than ever it was with
him all his life before (Acts 16:29-33). Peter then also saw what saving was, when he began
to sink into the sea: 'Lord, save me,' said he, I perish (Matt 14:30). Sin is that without
a sense of which a man is not apprehensive what grace is. Sin and grace, favour and wrath,
death and life, hell and heaven, are opposites, and are set off, or out, in their evil or good,
shame or glory, one by another. What makes grace so good to us as sin in its guilt and filth?
What makes sin so horrible and damnable a thing in our eyes, as when we see there is nothing
can save us from it but the infinite grace of God? Further, there seems, if I may so term it,
to be a kind of natural instinct in the new creature to seek after the grace of God; for so
saith the Word, 'They that are after the flesh, do mind the things of the flesh; but they that
are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit' (Rom 8:5). The child by nature nuzzles in its
mother's bosom for the breast; the child by grace does by grace seek to live by the grace of
God. All creatures, the calf, the lamb, &c., so soon as they are fallen from their mother's
belly, will by nature look for, and turn themselves towards the teat, and the new creature
doth so too (1 Peter 2:1-3). For guilt makes it hunger and thirst, as the hunted hart does
pant after the water brooks. Hunger directs to bread, thirst directs to water; yea, it calls
bread and water to mind. Let a man be doing other business, hunger will put him in mind of
his cupboard, and thirst of his cruse of water; yea, it will call him, make him, force him,
command him, to bethink what nourishing victuals is, and will also drive him to search out
after where he may find it, to the satisfying of himself. All right talk also to such an one
sets the stomach and appetite a craving; yea, into a kind of running out of the body after
this bread and water, that it might be fed, nourished, and filled therewith. Thus it is by
nature, and thus it is by grace; thus it is for the bread that perisheth, and for that which
endureth to everlasting life. But,

Second. As nature, the new nature, teaches this by a kind of heavenly natural instinct; so
experience also herein helpeth the godly much. For they have found all other places, the throne
of grace excepted, empty, and places or things that hold no water. They have been at Mount
Sinai for help, but could find nothing there but fire and darkness, but thunder and lightning,
but earthquake and trembling, and a voice of killing words, which words they that heard them
once could never endure to hear them again; and as for the sight of vengeance there revealed
against sin, it was so terrible, that Moses, even Moses, said, 'I exceedingly fear and quake'
(Heb 12:18-21; Exo 19; 2 Cor 3). They have sought for grace by their own performances; but
alas! they have yielded them nothing but wind and confusion; not a performance, not a duty,
not an act in any part of religious worship, but they looking upon it in the glass of the Lord,
do find it spaked[21] and defective (Isa 64:5-8). They have sought for grace by their resolutions,
their vows, their purposes, and the like; but alas! they all do as the other, discover that
they have been very imperfectly managed, and so such as can by no means help them to grace.
They have gone to their tears, their sorrow, and repentance, if perhaps they might have found
some help there; but all has either fled away like the early dew, or if they have stood, they
have stunk even in the nostrils of those whose they were. How much more, then, in the nostrils
of a holy God!

They have gone to God, as the great Creator, and have beheld how wonderful his works have been;
they have looked to the heavens above, to the earth beneath, and to all their ornaments, but
neither have these, nor what is of [or resulting from] them, yielded grace to those that had
sensible want thereof. Thus have they gone, as I said, with these pitchers to their fountains,
and have returned empty and ashamed; they found no water, no river of water of life; they have
been as the woman with her bloody issue, spending and spending till they have spent all, and
been nothing better, but rather grew worse (Mark 5). Had they searched into nothing but the
law, it had been sufficient to convince them that there was no grace, nor throne of grace,
in the world. For since the law, being the most excellent of all the things of the earth, is
found to be such as yieldeth no grace--for grace and truth comes by Jesus Christ, not by Moses
(John 1:17)--how can it be imagined that it should be found in anything inferior? Paul, therefore,
not finding it in the law, despairs to find it in anything else below, but presently betakes
himself to look for it there where he had not yet sought it--for he sometimes sought it not
by faith, but as it were by the works of the law (Phil 3:6-8)--he looked for it, I say, by
Jesus Christ, who is the throne of grace, where he found it, and rejoiced in hope of the glory
of God (Rom 9:29-31, 5:1-3). But,

Third. Saints come to know and distinguish the throne of grace from other thrones, by the very
direction of God himself; as it is said of the well that the nobles digged in the wilderness--they
digged it by the direction of the lawgiver, so saints find out the throne of grace by the direction
of the grace-giver. Hence Paul prays, that the Lord would direct the hearts of the people into
the love of God (2 Thess 3:5). Man, as man, cannot aim directly at this throne; but will drop
his prayers short, besides, or the like, if he be not helped by the Spirit (Rom 8:26). He setteth
us in the way of his steps, that is, in that way to the throne by which grace and mercy is
conveyed unto us.

Fourth. We know the throne of grace from other thrones, by the glory that it always appears
in, when revealed to us of God: its glory outbids all; there is no such glory to be seen anywhere
else, either in heaven or earth. But, I say, this comes by the sight that God gives, not by
any excellency that there is in my natural understanding as such; my understanding and apprehension,
simply as natural, is blind and foolish. Wherefore, when I set to work in mine own spirit,
and in the power of mine own abilities, to reach to this throne of grace, and to perceive somewhat
of the glory thereof, then am I dark, rude, foolish, see nothing; and my heart grows fat, dull,
savourless, lifeless, and has no warmth in the duty. But it mounts up with wings like an eagle,
when the throne is truly apprehended. Therefore that is another thing by which the Christian
knows the throne of grace from all others; it meets with that good there that it can meet with
nowhere else. 

The Wagentuere had remained open, but still did not get out of second.

The head waiter was surprised at the car, twice, had he seen, and
always with you shaken his head.

"Bst, Mr. Head Waiter, a word," I called down, "who was it -"

"Will have the same honor," replied the acceptable and was soon in my room.

"A strange phenomenon," I said to him, "a heavy wagon with four horses,
and only a single master without any operation.

"

"Against all rules and experience," replied the other, "very strange,
very strange.

However, the coachman assured that it was a good man, for he was always two dollars for eight stations.
Perhaps an Englishman by profession, all have something ordinary.

"

"You know his name yet?" I asked, curious as it is sent.

"If written only at the supper on the slate," replied he; "have the Lord Dentists anything
else -? "

I knew my annoyance at the moment nothing, he went and left me with
my conjectures over the remote in the eight-seat car alone.

When I went down to dinner in the evening, the waiter slipped past me, a tremendous Slate in
his hand. He was hardly aware of me, than he, in one hand a light in the others, the panel trod
before me, presenting me such.

"By Natas, boatmen," was written. "He has no use?" I asked.

"No," was the answer, "he has adopted two Lohnlakaien that it neither in nor out allowed to dress.
"

When I entered the dining room, the company had already settled, I hurried still in my chair,
sat opposite Mr. Natas.

This man had already aroused my curiosity, so it was interesting to me now so I saw him in
the neighborhood.

The face was beautiful, but pale, hair, and eyes full of shiny black beard, the white teeth, of the
finely divided unveiled lips often competed with the snow the dazzling
white linen.

Was he old? Was he young? One could not determine, for half his face seemed to smile with its spicy,
which begins quietly in the corner of his mouth and as a cloud go up to the finely curved nose to the
wanton eye, early mature and under the storm of passions to betray done blooming youth, and
soon it was believed a to man of advanced years have been right, by diligent study of a rich Toilet
knows how to preserve themselves.

There are heads, faces, fit only to a Koerperform and otherwise no other. I was not reproach
that it is hallucinatory, that the eye on too much This form, as if nature had got used as
it is a different mix might think. This head could never sit in a squat, corpulent body, he could
only be the crown of a tall, slender, delicate-built form. It was also and the thoughtless
rapid movement of facial muscles, as in gentle mockery around the
mouth, in the deep seriousness of the high brow played, is expressed
in the body through the assessments but comfortable position, by the
rapid, round, almost graceful movement of the arms at all, in the
light, royal decorum of the man from.

Such was Mr. Natas, who sat opposite me at the dinner table. I had during the first Corridors shall
be enough to make these comments without the interesting vis-a-vis by curious Gaze to fall hard. The
new host seemed the way, several observations induce, for in the upper end of the table this
evening were the glasses of several women in perpetual motion, me
and my neighbors they had lunch Maximum patterned with the naked eye.

The dessert was served, the director of the culinary music went about his well-earned wages to collect.
He came to the stranger. This threw a dollar at the small Muenzensammlung and whispered something
in his ear to the surprised collectors. With three deep Bows that seemed to affirm and to promise,
and walked hurriedly to his chapel back.

The instruments were tuned again.

I was curious what might have that well-chosen, and the director gave the signal, and equal
in the first bars I saw the beautiful Polonaise from Osinsky.

The stranger leaned carelessly back in his chair, he seemed to belong only to the music, but
soon noticed I know that the dark restless eye on the long, black lashes running around - it was
evident He scanned the faces of those present and the impression which the beautiful Polonaise
on she did.

Verily! This train seemed to betray an experienced judge of men. Indeed would be the final incorrect,
the one from the heat or cold to participate in the realm of music on wanted to move the coarser
or lower susceptibility of the heart for the beautiful and noble; yes but also even the howling
dog by the gentle tones of the flute, the horse, however, pointed the ears at the blare of
trumpets, bold, proud, it lifts the neck, and his step is stronger and firmer.

But still could see nothing more entertaining than the faces of different persons in the most beautiful
moments in the piece, I made the stranger a compliment about the happy Choice of this music,
and quickly had a conversation between us about the effect of Music on this or that characters
evolved around.

The other guests had run, however, only a few that in the distance our had listened to conversation,
moved gradually closer. Midnight came, without I knew how, for the stranger had given us so deeply
into all the relations of people look into all their passions and desires, can we admit that
we still had to nowhere as deep thought to have heard so surprising conclusions or read.

By that evening we went to a new life in the three imperial crowns. It was as though the joy even
kept their debut with us and now celebrate their most sacred holidays; stay guests, which can come
up with would have never longer than one night here, closed on the ever-increasing circles, and forgot
that they are human were, the snow had collected from all the random parts of the world. And Natas, this
strange creature was the soul of the whole. It was he who, when he was only until his next table
neighbors had made known to the Maitre de plaisir were delivered.

He organized Festivals, tours in the beautiful area acquired and the heartfelt thanks of everyone.
Had he was already through the ingenious choice of pleasure won all hearts, so this is even more
the case when he led the conversation.

That amusing tale of the-horns of Oberon seemed to come into existence; Natas was allowed to open
only for the Lips, each first felt the strings of his loveliest Heart struck, on light wings buzzing
then the conversation around the table, willful were the jokes, bold looks of the men, mischievous
giggles of the women, and finally, the issue rushed in as unfettered
streams that after little more of it knew as one that had amused divine.

And

yet, was the wizard who conjured up this pleasure, far away, each
into the raw, common hinueberzuspielen.

He took some to an object, a day of news, told anecdotes, played
the conversation and sent on, knowing everyone their deepest peculiarity
elicit and delighted by his lively wit, by a warm representation,
which by all shades of the deepest feelings of sadness and brushed
up at the whim of those outbreaks, which flutter in the most sensual,
most charming costume on the fine line of decency.

Sometimes it seemed indeed that it might have been less dangerous if he the saint, he touches, almost
scorn spoken, would have the delicacy, which he gnawed, really torn; those delicate, mysterious
veil, with which he covered this or that provoked only won on the lustful thoughts to look deeper,
and the lush play of the imagination many heads of our beautiful women even more space, but
you could not be angry with him, not contradict, his brilliant qualities
torn out irresistible, enveloped reason with sweet charm, and his
bold hypothesis crept in as the truth the unguarded heart.

* * * * *

CHAPTER TWO

The dreadful night.

So had the brilliant stranger to me twelve and fifteen men and women in a great Whirlpool of joy torn.
Almost all were for no purpose in this house, and yet no one dared, the thought of departure
even remotely imagine. On the contrary, if we in the morning long slept, dined at noon time,
evening and night long long played drunk had chatted and laughed, it seemed the magic that
bound us to this house, only a new have chain wrapped around his foot to.

But it should be changed, perhaps for our salvation. On the sixth day of our joy Empire a Sunday,
was our Lord Natas throughout the inn to be found. The waiter apologized him with a small tour,
he would not come before sunset, but at tea, to the night table inevitably
be there.

We were so used to the indispensable, that we all enter this message made, and it seemed to us as
we would tied the wings and commands us to fly.

The talks came as naturally to the absentees, and its striking, gleaming
Release.

Strange it was that I did not want to come out of my mind, I told him, only under another form,
met once before in my life means, as absurd and the idea was so compelling he pushed me again
and again.

From earlier Years ago I remembered that is, a man who in his essence, in his eyes had mainly, a great
resemblance with him. He was a foreign doctor, visited only now and then my home town and lived
there from the beginning always very quiet, but had soon a Circle of admirers gathered around him. The
memory of those people was me by the way fatal; because it was said
that whenever he visited us, is always a major accident was, but I
could not help thinking to be Natas had the greatest similarity with
him, yes, there is one and the same person.

I told my table mates made every thought pursued me and the uncomfortable Comparison of a nature
liable to me so cruel, like the stranger was in my native city, with our friends who had so completely
earned my respect and love, but even more incredible It sounds like maybe if I assure you that
my neighbor across the same thought had, and they believed in a very
different form our witty partner seen to have.

"You could make a very anxious," said the Baroness of Everything,
which is not far from me sass, "They want our good Natas at the end
of the Wandering Jew, or, God knows what else to still do!

"

A small elderly gentleman, a professor in T., the last few days, also to our society connected and
happy, always quiet, a little wine now and then blissfully mitlebte had during our "comparative
anatomy," as he called it, quietly to herself hingelaechelt and skilful Its speed oval box
turned over in his fingers, like a wheel that was to be considered.

"I can no longer keep my comments behind the mountains," he finally broke los, "if you allow,
madam, I consider him not just for the Wandering Jew, but but for a very strange man. While he
was there, did well here and when the thought flashed in me: 'Den have you seen where it was? " However,
as indicated by Magic crawled back those memories when he me with the black, jumping around
Eye covered. "

"So it was just me also - me - me," we all cried in astonishment.

"Well, hey, huh!" laughed the professor. "Now it falls to me but with the eyes like scales that there
is no other than the one I've seen twelve years ago in Stuttgart. "

"What you have seen him and in what circumstances?" asked Mrs. eagerly
from Thing and blushed over half the too great zeal, she had betrayed.

The professor took a pinch, tapped in the Jabot and began: "It may now approximately twelve
be years when I process because of a few months in Stuttgart, spent. I lived in one of the
first Gasthoefe and also dined habitually at large in society the
host board.

Once I arrived a few days in which I had the room must be careful, for the first time back
to the table. They spoke very eager about a certain Mr. Barighi, the For some time the Mittagsgaeste
by his lively wit, by his skill in all languages ​​delight; all were unanimous in his praise, his
character was only about one does not quite agree, for the one made him the diplomats, some to master
a language, the third at a high exiles, others to a spy. The door opened, one was quiet, almost
embarrassed to have led to the dispute so loud, I noticed that the discussed gathered to be done
and saw - "

"Now, I ask them, of us" - "the same, the us so admirably for several
days keeps.

This would be the way, just not the supernatural, but you continue to hear: two He knew he had
us, Mr. Barighi, then called the stranger, by his witty conversation the board seasoned than we once interrupted
the host of the inn: 'Gentlemen,' said the polite, 'get ready for a delicious entertainment
that you tomorrow given will be, before, the high-school counselor hares hit took off today and draws
tomorrow '. "

"We asked what was meant, and an old gray captain, who for many Years, the highest place in
the inn claimed that told us the farce: 'Just lives across the dining
room, an old bachelor, desolate lonely in a big house; He is a senior
counselor out of service, lives on a decent pension and is about this
have an enormous fortune.

"

"'The same is a complete fool and has own habits, such as that he
themselves are often large company, and the going always fast.

He leaves twelve envelopes come out of the tavern, his wines he has
in the basement, and one or the other of our Markoe has the honor
of serving.

You might think he has all kinds of hungry and thirsty people with you! Not at all! old yellow
Stammbuchblaetter, on each a large cross, placed on the chairs, the old fellow is as comfortable as if
he would be among the most amusing companion; he talks and laughs
with them, and the thing is to be regarded as horrible that one has
always the new waiter needs to, because who was once in such a supper
is not more in the deserted house.

"'The day before yesterday was
another supper, and our new Franz Swear there heaven and earth, it
bring no more soul over. The next day after the feast is then the
second singularity of the Upper Council of Justice. He goes out of
town early in the morning and return again the next morning back,
but not in his house, which is by this time firmly locked and sealed,
but here to the inn.

"Since then he's doing quite foreign to people
who he sees every day all year to feed, Lunch and faces up to a window
and looks after his house across from the top to bottom.

"'Who owns
the house over there?' He asked the host.

"Pflichtmaessig this bends
each time, and answers: 'The Lord Justice Upper hare hits Ew. Excellence
come up '. "

"But, sir, how is because your great results with our
rabbit Natas together?"

"Will you wait to be yet, sir," replied he,
"it will be the same how come a light. The rabbit then connected inspected
the house and learns that it hit the rabbit belong. You must keep in mind that we speak all this while of that part of Christ's
perfection, as to duties, which stood in the number of performances, and not in the nature
or quality of acts. And I say, as to the thing in hand, Christ had duty to do, with respect
to his office as high priest for us, which immediately concerned himself; such duties as gave
him a legal admittance unto the execution thereof; such duties, the which, had they not orderly
been done, the want of them would have made him an undue approacher of the presence of God,
as to that. Wherefore, as I said afore, by what he did thereabout, he consecrated, or sanctified
himself for that work, according to God, and was accepted for his piety, or in that he feared
and did orderly do what he should do.

Fourth. The next thing preparatory to the execution of this office of high priest was the sacrifice
itself. The sacrifice, you know, must, as to the being of it, needs precede the offering of
it; it must be before it can be offered. Nor could Christ have been an high priest, had he
not had a sacrifice to offer. And I bring in the sacrifice as the last thing preparatory, not
that it was last, as to being, for it was before he could be capable of doing any of the afore-named
duties, being his body, in and by which he did them, but it was the last as to fitness; it
was not to be a sacrifice before the time, the time appointed of the Father; for since he had
prepared it to that end, it was fit as to the time of its being offered, that that should be
when God thought best also (Heb 10:5).

Behold then, here is the high priest with his sacrifice; and behold again, how he comes to
offer it. He comes to offer his burnt-offering at the call of God; he comes to do it in his
priestly garments, consecrated and sanctified in his own blood; he comes with blood and tears,
or by water and blood, and offereth his sacrifice, himself a sacrifice unto God for the sin
of the world; and that too at a time when God began to be weary of the service and sacrifices
of all the world.

[Christ the sacrifice as well as the high priest, and how he offered it.]

Thus you see our high priest proceeded to the execution of his priestly office; and now we
are come to his sacrifice, we will consider a little of the parts thereof, and how he offered,
and pleads the same. The burnt-offering for sin had two parts, the flesh and the fat, which
fat is called the fat of the inwards, of the kidneys, and the like (Lev 3:12-16). Answerable
to this, the sacrifice of Christ had two parts, the body and the soul. The body is the flesh,
and his soul the fat; that inward part that must not by any means be kept from the fire (Isa
53:10). For without the burning of the fat, the burnt-offering and sin-offering, both which
was a figure of the sacrifice of our high priest, was counted imperfect, and so not acceptable.
To signify, methinks, the feeling sense that this sacrifice of his body and soul should have
of the curse of God due to sin, all the while that it suffered for sin.

The fat made the flame to increase and to ascend; wherefore God speaks affectionately of the
fat, saying, The fat of mine offerings. And again, 'He shall see of the travail of his soul
and shall be satisfied' (Isa 53:10-12). The soul-groans, the soul-cries, the soul-conflicts
that the Son of God had, together with his soul-submission to his Father's will, when he was
made a sacrifice for sin, did doubtless flame bright, ascend high, and cast out a sweet savour
unto the nostrils of God, whose justice was now appeasing for the sin of men.

His flesh also was part of this sacrifice, and was made to feel that judgment of God for sin
that it was capable of. And it was capable of feeling much, so long as natural life, and so,
bodily sense, remained. It also began to feel with the soul, by reason of the union that was
betwixt them both; the soul felt, and the body bled; the soul was in an agony, and the body
sweat blood; the soul wrestled with the judgment and curse of the law, and the body, to show
its sense and sympathy, sent out dolorous cries, and poured out rivers of tears before God.
We will not here at large speak of the lashes, of the crown of thorns, of how his face was
bluft[23] with blows and blood; also how he was wounded, pierced, and what pains he felt while
life lasted, as he suffered for our sins; though these things are also prefigured in the old
law, by the nipping or wringing of the head, the cutting of the sacrifice in pieces, and burning
it in the fire (Lev 1). Now, you must know, that as the high priest was to offer his sacrifice,
so he was to bring the blood thereof to the mercy-seat or throne of grace, where now our Jesus
is; he was to offer it at the door of the tabernacle, and to carry the blood within the veil;
of both which a little.

[Christ a willing and an effectual sacrifice.]

1. He was to offer it, and how? Thus did Christ when he offered up himself, as is manifest
by that which follows. (1.) He offered a male, 'himself,' without blemish (Heb 7:27). (2.)
He gave himself a ransom; he 'gave his life a ransom' (Matt 20;28). (3.) He laid down his life
of himself (John 10:18; Luke 12:5). (4.) He longed for the day of his death, that he might
die to redeem his people. (5.) Nor was he ever so joyful in all his life, that we read of,
as when his sufferings grew near; then he takes the sacrament of his body and blood into his
own hands, and with thanksgiving bestows it among his disciples; then he sings an hymn, then
he rejoices, then he comes with a 'Lo, I come.' O the heart, the great heart, that Jesus Christ
had for us to do us good! He did it with all the desire of his soul.

2. He did it, not only voluntarily, and of a free will, but of love and affection to the life
of his enemies. Had he done thus for the life of his friends, it had been much; but since he
did it out of love to the life of his enemies, that is much more.

3. He did it without relinquishment of mind, when he was in: no discouragement disheartened
him; cry and bleed he did, yea, roar by reason of the troubles of his soul, but his mind was
fixed; his Father sware and did not repent, that he should be his priest; and he vowed, and
said he would not repent that he had threatened to be the plague and death of death (Hosea
13:13,14).

4.

[Christ the altar.]

I should now come to the second part of the office of this high-priest, and speak to that;
as also to those things that were preparatory unto his executing it; but first, I think convenient
a little to treat of the altar also upon which this sacrifice was offered to God.

Some, I conceive, have thought the altar to be the cross on which the body of Christ was crucified,
when he gave himself an offering for sin; but they are greatly deceived, for he also himself
was the altar through which he offered himself; and this is one of the treasures of wisdom
which are hid in him, and of which the world and Antichrist are utterly ignorant. I touched
this in one hint before, but now a little more express. The altar is always greater than the
gift; and since the gift was the body and soul of Christ--for so saith the text, 'He gave himself
for our sins'--the altar must be something else than a sorry bit of wood, or than a cursed
tree. Wherefore I will say to such, as one wiser than Solomon said to the Jews, when they superstitiated
the gift, in counting it more honourable than the altar, 'Ye fools, and blind, for whether
is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift?' (Matt 23:18,19).

If the altar be greater than the gift, and yet the gift so great a thing as the very humanity
of Christ, can it--I will now direct my speech to the greatest fool--can that greater thing
be the cross? Is, was the cross, the wooden cross, the cursed tree, that some worship, greater
than the gift, to wit, than the sacrifice which Christ offered, when he gave himself for our
sins! O idolatry, O blasphemy![24]

Quest. But what then was the altar? Answ. The divine nature of Christ, that Eternal Spirit,
by and in the assistance of which he 'offered himself without spot to God'; he, through the
Eternal Spirit 'offered himself' (Heb 9:14).

1. And it must be THAT, because, as was said, the altar is greater than the gift; but there
is nothing but Christ's divine nature greater than his human; to be sure, a sorry bit of wood,
a tree, the stock of a tree, is not.

2. It must be this, because the text says plainly 'the altar sanctifies the gift,' that is,
puts worth and virtue into it; but was it the tree, or the Godhead of Christ, that put virtue
and efficacy into this sacrifice that he offered to God for us? If thou canst but tell thy
fingers, judge.

3. The altar was it of old that was to bear up the sacrifice until it was consumed; and with
reference to the sacrifice under consideration, the tree could not bear up that; for our sacrifice
being a man, consisting of soul and body, that which could bear him up in his suffering condition,
must be that that could apply itself to his reasonable and sensible part for relief and succour,
and that was of power to keep him even in his spirit, and in a complete submissiveness to God,
in the present condition in which he was; and could the tree do this, think you? Had the tree
that command and government of the soul and sense of Christ, of the reason and feeling of the
Lord Jesus, as to keep him in this bitter suffering, in that evenness and spotlessness in his
torment, as to cause that he should come off this great work, without the least smell or tang[25]
of imperfection? No, no; it was through the Eternal Spirit that he 'offered himself without
spot to God.'

Quest. Wherefore then served the cross? Answ. I ask, and wherefore then served the wood by
which the sacrifices were burned? The sacrifices were burned with wood upon the altar; the
wood then was not that altar, the wood was that instrument by which the sacrifice was consumed,
and the cross that by which Christ suffered his torment and affliction. The altar then was
it that did bear both the wood and sacrifice, that did uphold the wood to burn, and the sacrifice
to abide the burning. And with reference to the matter in hand, the tree on which Christ was
hanged, and the sacrifice of his body, were both upheld by his divine power; yet the tree was
no more a sacrifice, nor an altar, than was the wood upon the altar; nor was the wood, but
the fire, holy, by which the sacrifice was consumed. Let the tree then be the tree, the sacrifice
the sacrifice, and the altar the altar; and let men have a care how, in their worship, they
make altars upon which, as they pretend, they offer the body of Christ; and let them leave
off foolishly to dote upon wood, and the works of their hands: the altar is greater than the
gift or sacrifice that was, or is, upon it.

[How Christ executes the office of high-priest.]

We come now to the second part of the office of this high-priest and to show how he performeth
that. In order to which, I must, as I did with reference to the first, show you what things,
as preparatory, were to precede the execution of it. We have here, as you see, 'our passover
sacrificed for us,' for our encouragement to come to the throne of grace; and now let us look
to it, as it is presented in the holiest of all, and to the order of its being so presented.

1. First, then, before there was anything further done, I mean by this high-priest, as to a
further application of his offering, the judgment of God was waited for by him, with respect
to his estimation of what was already done, to wit, how that was resented[26] by him; the which
he declared to the full by raising him from the dead. For in that he was raised from the dead,
when yet he died for our sins, it is evident that his offering was accepted, or esteemed of
value sufficient to effect that for the which it was made a sacrifice, which was for our sins;
this, therefore, was in order to his being admitted into heaven. God, by raising him from the
dead, justified his death, and counted it sufficient for the saving of the world. And this
Christ knew would be the effect of his death, long before he gave himself a ransom; where he
saith, 'This also shall please the Lord better than an ox, or bullock that hath horns and hoofs'
(Psa 69:31). And again, 'For the Lord God will help me, therefore shall I not be confounded:
therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know I shall not be ashamed. He is near that
justifieth me; who will contend with me? Let us stand together; who is mine adversary? Let
him come near to me. Behold, the Lord God will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? Lo,
they all shall wax old as a garment, the moth shall eat them up' (Isa 50:7-9). All this is
the work of the Lord God, his Father, and he had faith therein, as I said before. And since
it was God who was to be appeased, it was requisite that he should be heard in the matter,
to wit, whether he was pacified or no: the which he has declared, I say, in raising him up
from the dead. And this the apostles, both Paul and Peter, insinuate, when they ascribe his
resurrection to the power of another, rather than to his raising of himself, saying, 'this
Jesus hath God raised up' (Acts 2:32). 'God hath raised' him up 'from the dead' (3:15), 'whom
God raised from the dead,' and the like (4:10, 5:30, 8:56, 13:30). I say, therefore, that God,
by raising up Christ from the dead, hath said, that thus far his offering pleased him, and
that he was content.

2. But lest the world, being besotted by sin, should not rightly interpret actions, therefore
God added to his raising him up from the dead, a solemn exposing of him to view, not to all
men, but to such as were faithful, and that might be trusted with the communicating of it to
others: 'Him,' saith Peter, 'God raised' from the dead, 'and showed him openly, not to all
the people, but to witnesses chosen before of God, even to us who did eat and drink with him,
after he rose from the dead' (Acts 10:40,41). And this was requisite, not for that it added
anything to the value and worth of his sacrifice, but for the help of the faith of them that
were to have eternal salvation by him. And it is for this cause that Paul so enlargeth upon
this very thing, to wit, that there were them that could testify that God had raised him up
from the dead, namely, that men might see that God was well pleased, and that they had encouragement
to come boldly by him to the throne of grace for mercy (1 Cor 15:1-8). And this exposing of
him to view, was not for the length of a surprising or dazzling moment, but days and nights,
to the number of no less than forty; and that to the self-same persons, to wit, 'the apostles
whom he had chosen: To whom also,' says the text, 'he showed himself alive after his passion,
by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining
to the kingdom of God' (Acts 1:2,3). Thus God therefore being willing more abundantly to show
him unto the world, ordered this great season betwixt his resurrection and ascension, that
the world might see that they had ground to believe an atonement was made for sin.

3. But again, a third thing that was to precede the execution of the second part of this his
priestly office was, the manner and order of his going into the holiest; I say, the manner
and order of his going. He was to go thither in that robe of which mention was made before,
to wit, in the virtue of his obedience, for it was that which was to make his way for him as
now sprinkled with his blood. He was to go thither with a noise which the Holy Ghost calls
a shout, saying, 'God is gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet' (Psa 47:5).
This was prefigured by the bells, as I said, which did hang on the border of Aaron's garments.
Even as he ascended and went up; for Aaron's bells were to be heard when he went into, and
when he came out of, the holy place (Exo 28:33-35). But what men were to ascend with him, but,
as was said afore, the men that 'came out of the graves after his resurrection?' (Matt 27:53).
And what angels but those that ministered to him here in the day of his humiliation? As for
the evil ones, he then rode in triumph over their heads, and crushed them as captives with
his chariot wheels. He is ascended on high, he has 'led captivity captive, he has received
gifts for men' (Eph 4:8).

Thus then he ascended unto, into the holy paradise, where he was waited for of a multitude
of the heavenly host, and of thousands of millions of the spirits of just men made perfect.
So approaching the highest heavens, the place of the special presence of God, he was bid sit
down at his right hand, in token that, for his sufferings' sake, God had made him the highest
of every creature, and given him a name above every name, and commanded that at the name of
Jesus now all things in heaven should bow, and promised, that at the day of judgment, all on
earth, and under it, should bow too, to the glory of God the Father (Phil 2:6-11). Thus he
presented himself on our behalf unto God, a sacrifice of a sweet-smelling savour, in which
God resteth for ever, for that the blood of this sacrifice has always with him a pleasing and
prevailing voice. It cannot be denied, it cannot be outweighed by the heaviness, circumstances,
or aggravations of any sin whatsoever, of them that come unto God by him. He is always, as
I said before, in the midst of the throne, and before the throne, 'a Lamb as it had been slain,'
now appearing in the presence of God for us. Of the manner of his intercession, whether it
was vocal or virtual, whether by voice of mouth, or merit of deed, or both, I will not determine;
we know but little while here, how things are done in heaven, and we may soon be too carnal,
or fantastical in our apprehensions. Intercession he makes, that is, he manages the efficacy
and worth of his suffering with God for us, and is always prevalent in his thus managing of
his merits on our behalf. And as to the manner, though it be in itself infinitely beyond what
we can conceive while here, yet God hath stooped to our weakness, and so expressed himself
in this matter, that we might somewhat, though but childishly, apprehend him (1 Cor 13:11,12).
And we do not amiss if we conceive as the Word of God hath revealed; for the scriptures are
the green poplar, hazel, and the chestnut rods that lie in the gutters where we should come
to drink; all the difficulty is, in seeing the white strakes, the very mind of God there, that
we may conceive by it.

But the text says he prayeth in heaven, he makes intercession there. Again, it saith his blood
speaks, and, consequently, why may not his groans, his tears, his sighs, and strong cries,
which he uttered here in the days of flesh? I believe they do, and have a strong voice with
God for the salvation of his people. He may then intercede both vocally and virtually; virtually
to be sure he does, and we are allowed so to apprehend, because the text suggesteth such a
manner of intercession to us; and because our weakness will not admit us to understand fully
the thing as it is, our belief that he maketh intercession for us has also the advantage of
being purged from its faultiness by his intercession, and we shall be saved thereby, because
we have relied upon his blood shed, and the prevalency of the worthiness of it with God for
us; though as to this circumstance, the manner of his interceding, we should be something at
a loss.

The Word says that we have yet but the image of heavenly things, or of things in the heavens. Some
members wanted to know from a relaxation of existing laws nothing. Other Although such a relaxation
were not averse, but they saw a but that it's outrageous would be to allow Roman Catholics to
the highest posts of honor, while the law to maintain, which punished the visit Presbyterian
conventicles with death. The response of the council was therefore not as submissive as usual.
The king, in his His reply is delinquent counselors a sharp reprimand and summoned three of them,
the Duke of Hamilton, Sir George Lockhart and General Drummond, according to the Westminster.

    [Note 135: This letter is dated 4 March 1686.]

[A deputation of Scottish privy betakes to London.] Hamilton's talents and Although knowledge
was not so significant that they would have enough to a stranger to soar to a high position,
but still appeared in a man the first peer of Scotland, was very respectable. Lockhart had
a long time for one of the first lawyer, orator and logician been necessary to rise to his
country, and enjoyed this reputation, which give great possessions, because he had such a significant
asset, as at that time had very few Scottish nobles. [136] He was recently elected President Session
of the Court [137] been appointed. Drummond, a younger brother's Perth and Melfort's, was commander
of the troops standing in Scotland. He was a frivolous and worldly minded man, but a certain
sense of honor that was missing his two brothers, kept him from public apostasy back. He lived
and died - as one of his countrymen to very name suggests - as a bad Christian, but as a good
Protestant [138].

Jacob liked the deferential language of the three councils, as they first appeared before him. He spoke
against Barillon very cheap about them, especially Lockhart praised as the most talented and
most eloquent of all living Scots. But soon they appeared less tractable than is expected of
them had, and it was said at court that by the company with which they operates in London, had
been corrupted are. Hamilton did a lot with devotees the state church to, and it was feared that
in consequence of his relationship Lockhart advised the family Wharton in society is even worse.
It was indeed well of course, that the serious and persistent, but this measure containing
dissatisfaction, which England prevailed, to statesmen who had just come from a country where
the opposition in a different form than in the revolt for a long time almost unknown, and when
everything either lawless rage or cringing submissiveness, was made a deep impression, and that
they had to be encouraged it with the constitutional opposition to the royal will to try. Although
they agreed to the Roman Catholics big relief to grant, but only under two conditions: first,
that a similar forbearance on the Calvinistic sectaries will be extended, and second, that
the king with a solemn Promise to undertake to do anything to the prejudice of the Protestant religion.

[Note
136: Barillon, 19 (29) April 1686; + Burnet, I. 370th +]

    

    [Note 137: + Court + of session, the highest Scottish Civil
    Court, the English Court of Chancery + + and + Court of Common Pleas
    in accordance with +. D. Transl.]

    
    [Note 138: The words are found in a letter of John Stone to Waristoun.]

[Your
negotiations with the king.] Both conditions were certainly not after
Jacob's Sense.

After a prolonged battle, he saw himself, however reluctantly to the Presbyterians to ensure
some toleration and the complete freedom but he for members his church, claimed he wanted
to grant them under any circumstances. [139] on the second condition, which featured the Scottish
council, he refused to take decision. He said that the Protestant religion is a false promise
and that he could not quite that he would not use his power to the prejudice of a false religion.
The negotiations on this point took a long time and came to nothing for any of the parties satisfactory
results. [140]

[Note 139: A few words from above deserve to Barillon be.

    They alone would suffice to a question about Decide much for their
    ignorance, confusion and factionalism have contributed. +
    "Cette liberté aux accordée a Nonconformists faite une grande difficulté,
    et a été pendant plusieurs débattue jours. Le Roy d'Angleterre avoit
    envie que les Catholiques continued eussent seuls la liberté de
    l'exercice de leur religion. "+ 19th (29) April 1686.]
    
    [Note 140: Barillon, 19 (29) April; Citters, 13 (23) 20th (30th) and
9th April (19) May.]

[Meeting of the Scottish stands.] Moved the
meantime, the convening of the Scottish Scores appointed time approached,
and the three councils had therefore to leave London for their comply
with parliamentary duties in Edinburgh.

    On this occasion learned Queensberry a new offense. In the last
    session he had officiated as Lordobercommissar and as such the majesty
of the absent king represented.

This dignity, the highest, after a Scottish Noble aim was now the renegade Murray was transferred.

[Show
itself intractable.] On 29 April opened the parliament in Edinburgh in his meetings. It was
read a letter from the king, in which he exhorted the stands, his Roman Catholic to give the subjects
relief, and for them free trade with England and a Offered amnesty for political offenses. It has
appointed a committee to draft the response. This committee, although appointed by Murray himself,
and composed of privy councilors and courtiers drafted a reply, although
they had full assurances of loyalty and reverence, But with all this
unmistakably betrayed the decision, the request of the king to refuse
to meet.

The stands, it said it would, as far as their consciences allow them the wishes His Majesty in regard
to his Roman Catholic subjects meet. These expressions satisfied the Registrar by no means, but he had
to be content with it and it cost him even some effort to persuade Parliament to accept delivery
thereof. Some zealous Protestants raised objections to the mention of the Roman Catholic faith. There
is no such Religion, she said, but there is only one idolatrous waste, which the laws punished with the rope
and the Christian men should be no euphemistic name. call such a belief after Catholicism, would
mean the whole question of which between Rome and the Reformed Church float up. The offer of free trade
with England was seen as a shameful insult. "Our fathers," said one of the Speaker, 'sold their
King for sinful gold and the shame of that vile trade is not blurred. One should not say of us that
we have bartered away our God! " Sir John Lauder of Fountain Hall, one of the senators of the
college of justice suggested that the words before. "the people who usually Roman Catholics are
called -" Will you be Majesty a nickname given? "Said the Chancellor. The response was drafted by
the Committee accepted, but a significant and respectable minority voted against the proposed
words as too courtly. [141] It was noted that Members of the towns almost unanimously against the
government were. Until now, these members have been in the Parliament of minor importance and
have been considered only as the tail of powerful nobles. Now they showed for the first Female
independence, a determination and a common spirit that troubled the court. [142]

The answer did not like Jacob so much that he printed the same in the Gazette not allowed. He was
soon to learn that a law as he wished to see adopted it, not even would be proposed. The Article
Lords, where it was up to draft the laws on which the States had to consult later, were actually
appointed by himself, but they even showed themselves rebellious. As they gathered, were the
recent London unreturned three counselors at the top of opposition to the royal will. Hamilton
said almost, he could not do what was required, he was a faithful and loyal subject, but the
conscience draw a border. ? "Conscience," said the chancellor, "conscience is a vague Word that
means everything and nothing. "-" When was the conscience, "a Lockhart, the sat as a representative
of the large county of Lanark in Parliament, "an empty word, so do
we exchange with one another expression that means something hopefully.

Let us for say, the basic laws of Scotland "These words prompted a fierce debate.. General Drummond,
who took Perthshire, agreed with Hamilton and Lockhart, and most of the bishops present were
on the same page. [143]

It was clear that James himself had in the article-committee to command no majority. The Message
vexed and irritated him. He led a violent and threatening language and punished some of his unruly
servants in the hope that the other would be to warn be served. Several members of the council were
dismissed and several levels have been withdrawn, which constituted a large portion of their income.
The most distinguished victim was Sir Mackenzie of Rosehaugh. He had long held the office
of Lord Advocate and the persecution of the Covenanters taken such a share that he is still today
in the eyes of the serious and God-fearing Scottish peasantry occupies a position which is not
the enviable Claverhouse's height is not far away. Mackenzie's legal skills were not the most brilliant,
but as a scholar, as beautiful spirit and as an orator, he stood by his countrymen in high esteem,
and his reputation had suffered in the London coffee houses and in
the Oxford Cloisters common.

The remaining court papers he prove that he a talented man was, only they are affected by something
that he probably for Ciceronian momentum stopped by interjections, which betrayed more art
than passion and lengthy descriptions in which Epipheta tiring to a Epipheta Klimax each pile. Now
he had shown for the first time concern and was therefore appalled despite his claims to the gratitude
of the government of his office. He retired back to the country and soon came to London in order
to justify himself, but was of King admitted not [144]. While the king tried it this way, the
Article Lords compel obedience by intimidation, they encouraged the public opinion on persistence.
The utmost efforts of the Registrar, it could not prevent the national feeling is expressed in the pulpit
and the press. A treatise in such a bold and spicy Tone was held that no printer to print
them dared to take over, was in manuscript widespread. The on the opposite side of writings had far
smaller effect, although they have been disseminated at public expense, and although the Scottish
Defenders of the government a very influential ally of the English side was: Lestrange, who
had been sent to Edinburgh and apartments at Holyrood House lived. [145]

After a three-week debate, the Lords of the article finally came to a decision. They suggested that
the Roman Catholics should be allowed in their worship Private houses to hold, but it soon
became clear that even this measure, if they also lagged behind the demands and expectations
of the king of the stands either do or not it will only be accepted with strong restrictions
and modifications would be.

During the duration of this struggle there was in London a nervous tension. Each report each
row of Edinburgh was read avidly. Once was a rumor that Hamilton had yielded and the government
will enforce every point. Then came the news that the opposition gathered again and I was stubborn as
ever. In the most critical moments given the Post Office orders to all letter bag from Scotland
to send to White Hall, and a whole week was not a single private letter, which came from beyond
the Tweed, issued in London. In our time, such a disruption to the written transport the whole
island into confusion bring, but at the time of the trade and the
correspondence was between England and Scotland is so low that the
inconveniences were probably much less important than that which is
undertaking a short delay in the arrival of the Indian Post .

Arise Thus, while the ordinary ways in which they could receive messages sealed were the amount
observed in the galleries of Whitehall with rapt attention the Faces of the king and his ministers,
and we noticed with great satisfaction that after each Expressen coming from the north, the enemies
of the Protestant faith always dark . Looked

[Note 141: Fountain Hall, 6 May 1686.]

[Note 142: + + 15 Ibid. June 1686.]

[Note 143: Citters, 11 (21) May 1686th Citters insured the States-General that his communications
on the best have. I will quote a portion of it here. It is also an amusing Pröbchen of the
motley style of the former Dutch diplomat.

+ "The king's missive, the Hoog boven de behalve Commissaris aensprake aen, afgesonden het parlement,
gelyck dat altoos gebruyckelyck is, versocht waerby Syne Majesteyt nu in genere hieft the
rigoureuse de ofte Sanglante bet van het mitigatie Ryck Jegens Pausdom het in het generals comitee of
Articles (Soo men has naemt daer) na gestelt ordre en synd read in 't , Voteren the Hertog van
onder other Hamilton Klaer seyde dat nyt hy daertoe Soude Verstaen niet, dat hy different from
what the GeneGen King in all voorval getrouw te serve volgens het dictamen synergistic conscientie:
't gene de Lord Cancelier talk gaf aen de Grave Pert dat het te sedge
Woort conscientie niets en beduyde, en alleen een individual vagum
what waerop the Chevalier Lockhart het wil be nit Verstaen betyckenis
van de; dan verder Gingher woordt conscientie, soo sal ik in dat wy
fortioribus sedge Meynell volgens de van het Ryck fondamentale worlds.

    "+

    

    In the + "Hind Let Loose" + is a relevant point of I have given
    without this dispatch from Citters no faith would.
    
'No man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it' (Eph 5:29).--Things
are thus spoken, because of the infirmity of our flesh.--So that had Christ no love to us as
we are sinners, yet because we are part of himself, he cannot but care for us, nature puts
him upon it; yea, and the more infirm and weak we are, the more he is touched with the feeling
of our infirmities, the more he is afflicted for us: 'For we have not an High Priest which
cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities' (Heb 4:15). He at no time loseth this
his fellow-feeling, because he always is our head, and we the members of his. I will add, the
infirm member is most cared for, most pitied, most watched over to be kept from harms, and
most consulted for.[30]

I love to play the child with little children, and have learned something by so doing; I have
met with a child that has had a sore finger; yea, so sore as to be altogether at present useless;
and not only so, but by reason of its infirmity, has been a let or hindrance to the use of
all the fingers that have been upon that hand, then have I began to bemoan the child, and said,
Alas! my poor boy, or girl, hast got a sore finger! Ah! quoth the child, with water in its
eyes, and hath come to me to be bemoaned. Then I have begun to offer to touch the sore finger.
O! saith the child, pray do not hurt me: I then have replied, Canst thou do nothing with this
finger? No, saith the child, nor with this hand either; then have I said, Shall we cut off
this finger, and buy my child a better, a brave golden finger? At this the child has started,
stared in my face, gone back from me, and entertained a kind of indignation against me, and
has no more cared to be intimate with me. Then have I begun to make some use of that good sermon
which this little child has preached unto me; and thus have I gone on. If membership be so
dear, if this child has such tenderness to the most infirm, the most useless of its members;
if it counts me its friend no longer than when I have a mouth to bemoan and carriages that
show tenderness to this useless finger; what an interest doth membership give on in the body,
and what compassions hath the soul for such an useless thing, because it is a member! and turning
all this over to Jesus Christ, then instead of matter and corruption, there presently comes
honey to me out of this child's sore finger; I take leave to tell you now how I use to play.
And though I have told this tale upon so grave a truth, as is the membership of Christians
with their head, yet bear with me; no child can be so tender of its sore finger as is the Son
of God of his afflicted members; he cannot but be touched with the feeling of our infirmities.[31]

Ah! who would not make many supplications, prayers, and intercessions, for a leg, for an eye,
for a foot, for a hand, for a finger, rather than they will lose it? And can it be imagined
that Christ alone shall be like the foolish ostrich, hardened against his young, yea, against
his members? It cannot be.

Should he lose a member, he would be disfigured, maimed, dismembered, imperfect, next to monstrous.
For his body is called his fulness, yea, the fulness of him that fills all in all. This has
naturally a respect for those for whom he ever liveth to make intercession; yea, an unfathomable
respect for them, because they are his members.

Fifth. But again, when nature, relation, and membership is urged to show the fit qualifications
wherewith Christ is endued, I intend not to intimate, as if the bottom of all lay here; for
then it might be urged that one imperfect has all these; for who knows not that sinful man
has all these qualifications in him towards his nature, relations, and members? I have therefore,
as I said, thus discoursed, only for demonstration-sake, and to suit myself with the infirmity
of your flesh. I might come, also, in the next place, to tell you, that Jesus Christ our High
Priest is thus, with reference to other designs. We are his purchase and he counts us so; his
jewels, and he counts us so; his estate real, and he counts us so (Psa 16:5,6). And you know
a man will do much, speak much, intercede much and long, for that which he thus is interested
in. But we will come to speak more particularly of the exceeding excellency of his natural
qualifications, and show you that he hath such as are peculiar to himself alone, and that we
are concerned in them.

[The peculiar natural qualifications of Christ as our High Priest.]

1. He is holy, and so a suitable High Priest. There is a holiness that sets further from, and
a holiness that brings one nearer to, and to be concerned the more with the condition of those
in affliction; and that holiness is that which is entailed unto office. When a man is put into
an office, the more unholy he is, the worse he performs his office; and the more holy, the
better he performs his office. For his holiness obliges him to be faithful unto men, wherein
he is concerned by his office. Hence you read, that he is 'a faithful High Priest,' because
he is a holy one, and 'such an High Priest became us, who is holy,' &c. (Heb 2:17, 7:26). 'Good
and upright is the Lord' Jehovah, Christ Jesus, 'therefore will he teach sinners in the way'
(Psa 25:8). 'He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God' (2 Sam 23:3).
I mention these texts to show you, that holiness, when entailed to office, makes a man do that
office the better. Now then, Christ is holy, and he is made, called, and made of God an High
Priest, after the order of Melchisedec, and is to manage that his office for thee with God;
that is to say, to continue to make reconciliation for iniquity; for that iniquity that cleaveth
unto thee, and that spuriously breaketh, or issueth from thy flesh after thou art called and
converted. For we are now upon the second part of the execution of the priesthood of Christ;
that which he executeth, I say; and by executing takes away the iniquity of our holy things
and of our life, after our turning to God by him. Now he that is to do this is holy, and so
one that will make conscience of performing that office for us, with which he is intrusted
of God. Hence he is set in opposition to those high priests that had infirmities, that were
not holy, and upon this very account preferred above them. This therefore is a great thing,
to wit, that we have an High Priest that is holy, and so one that will not fail to perform
to the utmost the trust committed to him in our behalf, to wit, 'to offer both gifts and sacrifices
for sins' (Heb 5:1). This is one thing.

2. There is added to this of his holiness another; and that is harmless. 'For such an High
Priest became us who is holy, harmless' (Heb 7:26). A harmful man, when he is in office, O
how much mischief may he do! Such an one is partial in doing his office, such an one will put
the poor by his right, such an one will buy and sell a cause, a man, an interest, will do or
not do, as his harmfulness prompts him to it; 'so is a wicked ruler over the poor people' (Prov
28:15). But now our Jesus, our High Priest, is holy, harmless; he will wrong no man, he will
deprive no man, he will contemn no man, he will deny to no man that comes to God by him, the
benefit and advantage of his blessed intercession; he respecteth not persons, nor taketh reward.
A harmful man will stomach, and hate, and prejudice a man; will wait for an opportunity to
do him a mischief; will take the advantage, if he can, to deny him his right, and keep from
him his due, when yet it is in the power of his hand to help him. O! but Christ is harmless,
harmless as a dove, he thinks no ill, intends no ill, doth no ill; but graciously, innocently,
harmlessly, makes intercession for thee; nor will he be prevailed with to prejudice thy person,
or to forbear to take up thy name into his lips, be thy infirmities, and weaknesses, and provocations
never so many, if thou indeed comest to God by him. He is holy, and harmless, and so the more
fit to become our High Priest and to make intercession for us.

3. But again, this is not all, he also is undefiled; 'For such an High Priest became us, who
is holy, harmless, undefiled.' This term is put in to show, that he neither is, nor can be
found, neither now, nor at any time, faulty in his office. A man that is holy may yet be defiled;
a man that is harmless may yet be defiled. We are bid to be holy and harmless; and in a gospel
sense so every Christian is. O! but Christ is so in a legal sense; in the eye of the law, perfectly
so. This is a great matter, for it shows, that as nothing done by us can tempt him to be hurtful
to us; so there is nothing in himself that can tempt him so to be. A man that is defiled has
that within him that will put him upon using of his office unfaithfully, though he should have
no provocation from those for whose good he is to execute his office; but he that is undefiled--undefiled
in a law sense--as our Lord Jesus is, is such an one as doth not only not do hurt, and not
act falsely in his office, but one that cannot, one that knoweth not, how to be unfaithful
to his trust. He is holy, harmless, undefiled, this therefore is a great thing. He has not
the original of hurtfulness in him, there is no such root there; there is a root of bitterness,
springing up in us, by which not only ourselves, but ofttimes others are defiled (Heb 12:15).
O! but our High Priest is undefiled, he is not corrupt, nor corrupteth; he doth his office
fairly, faithfully, holily, justly, according to, or answering, our necessities, and the trust
reposed in him, and committed to him. But,

4. This is not all; as he is holy, harmless, and undefiled; so he is separate from sinners,
both in his conception, in his composition, and the place ordained for him to execute this
part of his High Priest's office in. He was not conceived in the womb by carnal generation;
he was not made up of polluted and defiled nature; he officiateth not with those materials
that are corrupt, stained, or imperfect; but with those that are unspotted, even with the spotless
sacrifice of his own unblemished offering. He, nor his offering, has any such tang, as had
the priests, and their sacrifices under the law, to wit, sin and imperfection; he is separate
from them in this respect, further than is an angel from a beast. He has none of the qualities,
actions, or inclinations of sinners; his ways are only his own; he never saw them, nor learned
them, but of the Father; the none upright among men, wherefore he is separated from them to
be a priest. Again,

5. The text saith, that neither saint, nor heavens, are clean in God's sight. Wherefore, by
this expression, he shows us that our High Priest is more noble than either heaven or angel:
yea, more clean and perfect than any. It shows us also that all the heavenly host are at his
command, to do as his intercession shall prevail with the Father for us. All angels worship
him, and at his word they become, they all become ministering spirits for them who shall be
heirs of salvation.

Besides, by this word he shows, that it is impossible that our High Priest should degenerate
or decay; for that he is made 'higher than the heavens'; the spirits sometimes in the heavens
have decayed (2 Peter 2:4). The heavens themselves decay and wax old; and that is the farthest
that by the Word we are admitted to go (Heb 1:10-12). But as for him that is above the heavens,
that is made higher than the heavens, that is ascended up far above all heavens; he is the
same, and 'his years fail not' (Heb 1:12). 'The same yesterday, today, and for ever' (Heb 13:8).
This therefore is added, to show that Christ is neither as the angels, nor heavens, subject
to decay, or degenerate, or to flag and grow cold in the execution of his office; but that
he will be found even at the last, when he is come to the end of this work, and is about to
come out of the holy place, as affectionate, as full of love, as willing, and desirous after
our salvation, as he was the first moment that he was made High Priest, and took upon him to
execute that his blessed office for us. Wherefore our High Priest is no such one as you read
of in the law (Lev 21:18). He is no dwarf, hath no blemish, nor any imperfection; therefore
is not subject to flag or fail in due execution of his office, but is able to save to the uttermost
them that come unto God by him, 'seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.' And
it is well worth our consideration, that it is said he is made thus; that is, appointed, instituted,
called, and qualified thus of God; this shows the Father's heart as well as the Son's, to usward,
to wit, that this priesthood was of him, and the glorious effects thereof by him. I come now
to the second motive, to wit, that we may find grace and mercy to help in time of need; or
we shall find grace and mercy to help, if we come as we should, to the throne of grace. In
this motive we have these three things considerable. First, That saints are like to meet with
needy times while they are in this world. Second, That nothing can carry us through our needy
times but more, or a continual supply of mercy and grace. Third, That mercy and grace is to
be had at the throne of grace, and we must fetch it from thence by prayer, if we would, as
we should, go through these needy times.

First. For the first of these, that saints are like to meet with needy times, or with such
times as will show them that they need a continual assistance of the grace of God, that they
may go rightly through this world. This is therefore a motive, that weareth a spur in the heel
of it, a spur to prick us forward to supplicate at the throne of grace. This needy time is
in other places called the perilous time, the evil day, the hour and power of darkness, the
day of temptation, the cloudy and dark day (2 Tim 3:1; Eph 6:13; Luke 22:53; Heb 3:8; Eze 34:12;
Gen 47:9; Matt 6:34). And indeed, in the general, all the days of our pilgrimage here are evil,
yea, every day has a sufficiency of evil in it to destroy the best saint that breatheth, were
it not for the grace of God. But there are also, as I have hinted, particular special times,
times more eminently dangerous and hazardous unto saints. As,

[Ten special times of need.]

There are their young days, the days of their youth, and childhood in grace. Now tempt him,
threaten him, flatter him, stigmatise him, throw dust into his eyes, poison him with error,
spoil him while he is upon the potter's wheel; any thing to keep him from coming to Jesus Christ.
And is not this a needy time; doth not such an one want abundance of grace? is it not of absolute
necessity that thou, if thou art the man thus beset, shouldst ply it at the throne of grace,
for mercy and grace to help thee in such a time of need as this? To want a spirit of prayer
now, is as much as thy life is worth. O, therefore, you that know what I say, you that are
broke loose from hell, that are fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before you, and
that do hear the lion roar after you, and that are kept awake with the continual voice of his
chinking chain, cry as you fly; yea, the promise is, that they that come to God with weeping,
with supplication, he will lead them. Well, this is one needy time, now thy hedge is low, now
thy branch is tender, now thou art but in the bud. Pray that thou beest not marred in the potter's
hand.

2. The time of prosperity is also a time of need, I mean of thy spiritual prosperity. For as
Satan can tell how to suit temptations for thee in the day of thy want, so he has those that
can entangle thee in the day of thy fulness. He has his spiritual wickednesses in the high
and heavenly places (Eph 6:12). He can tell how to lay a snare for thee in the land of Canaan,
as well as in the wilderness; in thy time of receiving good things, as well as in thy hungry
and empty hours. Nay, such times seem to be the most dangerous, not in themselves, but through
the deceits of our heart. Hence Moses gives this caution to the children of Israel, that when
God had given them the promised land, and vineyards, and wells, and olive trees, and when they
had eaten and were full, 'Then,' says he, 'beware lest thou forget the Lord which brought thee
forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage' (Deut 6:10-13). And again, he doubleth
this caution, saying, 'When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy
God, for the good land which he hath given thee. Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God
in not keeping his commandments, and his judgments, and his statutes, which I command thee
this day; lest when thou hast eaten and art full,' and thou in all good things art increased,
'then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth
out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage'; all this may be applied spiritually (Deut
8:10-14). For there are, as I said, snares laid for us in our best things; and he that has
great enjoyments, and forgets to pray for grace to keep him humble then, shall quickly be where
Peter was, after his knowledge of the Lord Jesus by the revelation of the Father.

3. Another needy time is a time when men are low and empty, as to worldly good; this time is
full of temptations and snares. At this time, men will, if they look not well to their doings
and goings, be tempted to strain curtesies both with conscience and with God's Word, and adventure
to do things that are dangerous, and that have a tendency to make all their religion and profession
vain. This holy Agur was aware of; so he prayed, Let me not be rich and full, lest I deny thee;
let me not be poor, lest I steal, and take the name of my God in vain (Prov 30:7-9). There
are many inconveniences that attend him that is fallen into decay in this world. It is an evil
day with him, and the devils will be as busy with him, as the flies are with a lean and scabbed
sheep. It shall go hard but such a man shall be full of maggots; full of silly, foolish, idle
inventions, to get up, and to abound with fulness again. It is not a time now, will Satan say,
to retain a tender conscience, to regard thy word or promise, to pay for what thou buyest,
or to stick at pilfering, and filch from thy neighbour.[32] This Agur was afraid of; therefore
he prayed that God would keep him from that which would be to him a temptation to do it. How
many in our day have, on these very accounts, brought religion to a very ill savour, and themselves
unto the snare of the devil, and all because they have not addicted themselves to pray to God
for grace to help in this time of need, but rather have left off the thing that is good, and
given up themselves to the temptations of the devil, and the subtle and ensnaring motions of
the flesh.

4. Another needy time is the day of persecution; this is called, as was hinted before, 'the
hour of darkness,' 'the cloudy and dark day.' This day, therefore, is full of snares, and of
evils of every kind. Here is the fear of man, the terrors of a prison, of loss of goods and
life.[33] Now all things look black, now the fiery trial is come. He that cannot now pray;
he that now applieth not himself to God on the throne of grace, by the priesthood of Jesus
Christ, is like to take a fall before all men upon the stage; a foul fall, a fall that will
not only break his own bones, but also the hearts of those that fear God and behold it: 'Come
therefore boldly unto the throne of grace, that ye may obtain mercy, and find grace to help
in time of need.'

5. Another time of need is that time wherein thou changest thy condition, and enterest into
a new relation. For here also the snares and traps lie waiting for thee. There is a hopeful
child goes to service, or to be an apprentice; there is a young man, a young maid, entereth
into a married condition, and though they pray before, yet they leave off to pray then. Why,
these people are oftentimes ruined and undone; the reason is, this change is attended with
new snares, with new cares, and with new temptations, of the which, because through unwatchfulness
they are not aware, they are taken, drawn to perdition and destruction by them. Many in my
short day have gone, I doubt, down to the pit, THIS way, that have sometimes been to appearance
the very foremost and hopefulest in the place where they have lived. O how soon has their fire
gone out; has their lamps forborne to burn! How quickly have they lost their love to their
ministers, by whom they were illuminated, and to the warmest Christians, through communion
with whom they used to be kept awake and savoury! How quickly have they found them out new
friends, new companions, new ways and methods of life, and new delights to feed their foolish
minds withal! Another time of need is, when the generality of professors are decayed; when
the custom of fancies and fooleries have taken away all gravity and modesty from among the
children of men. Now pray, or thou diest; yea, pray against those decays, those vain customs,
those foolish fancies, those light and vain carriages that have overtaken others, else they
will assuredly knock at thy door, and obtain favour at thy hand, the which if they do, they
will quickly bring thee down into the dirt with others, and put thee in peril of damnation
as well as they.

7. Another time of need is, the time of guilt contracted, and of the hiding of God's face.
This is a dangerous time. If thou now shalt forbear to pray, thou art undone, for the natural
tendency of guilt is to drive a man from God. So it served our first father; and ofttimes when
God hides his face, men run into desperation, and so throw up all duties, and say as he of
old, 'What should I wait for the Lord any longer?' (2 Kings 6:33). Now thy great help against
this is prayer, continuing in prayer. Prayer wrestleth with the devil, and will overthrow him:
prayer wrestleth with God, and will overcome him: prayer wrestleth with all temptations, and
makes them fly. Great things have been done by prayer, even by the prayer of those that have
contracted guilt, and that have by their sins lost the smiles and sense of the favour of God.
The day of reproach and slander is another time of need, or a day in which thou wilt want supplies
of grace. Sometimes we meet with such days wherein we are loaden with reproaches, slanders,
scandals, and lies. Christ found the day of reproach a burdensome day unto him; and there is
many a professor driven quite away from all conscience towards God, and open profession of
his name, by such things as these (Psa 69:7). Reproach is, when cast at a man, as if he was
stoning to death with stones. Now ply it hard at the throne of grace, for mercy and grace to
bear thee up, or thou wilt either miscarry or sink under ground by the weight of reproach that
may fall upon thee.[34]

9. Another time of need is that wherein a man's friends desert and forsake him, because of
his gospel principles, or of those temptations that attend his profession. This is a time that
often happeneth to those that are good. Thus it was with Christ, with Paul, with Job, with
Heman, and so has been with many other of God's servants in the day of their temptations in
this world; and a sore time it is. Job complained under it, so did Heman, Paul, and Christ
(John 6:66; 2 Tim 1:15; Job 19:13-19). Now a man is as forlorn as a pelican in the wilderness,
as an owl in the desert, or as a sparrow upon the house-top. If a man cannot now go to the
throne of grace by prayer, through Christ, and so fetch grace for his support from thence,
what can he do? He cannot live of himself (John 15:4). Wherefore this is a sore evil.

10. Another time of need is the day of death, when I am to pack up and to be gone from hence,
the way of all the earth.[35] Now the greatest trial is come, excepting that of the day of
judgment. Now a man is to be stripped of all, but that which cannot be shaken. Now a man grows
near the borders of eternity. Now he begins to see into the skirts of the next world. Now death
is death, and the grave the grave indeed! Now he begins to see what it is for body and soul
to part, and what to go and appear before God (Eccl 12:5). Now the dark entry, and the thoughts
of what is in the way from a deathbed to the gate of the holy heaven, comes nearer the heart
than when health and prosperity do compass a man about. Wherefore this is like to be a trying
time, a time of need indeed. (Eccl 12:6). Wherefore, I say, this motive weareth a spur on his
heel, a spur to prick us on to the throne of grace for mercy, and grace to help in time of
need. But,

[Continual supplies of grace essential to our welfare.]

Second. I come now to the next thing, which is, to show that nothing can carry us through our
needy times, but more or a continual supply of mercy and grace. This the text fully implies,
because it directeth us to the throne of grace, for mercy and grace for that very end. And
had there been any thing else that could have done it, the apostle would have made mention
of it, and would also have directed the saints unto it. But forasmuch as he here makes mention
of the needy time, and directs them to the throne of grace for mercy and grace to help, it
followeth that mercy and grace, and that only, can help us in the evil time. Now mercy and
grace are to be distinctly considered. 1. Mercy, for that by it we have through Christ the
continuation and multiplication of forgivenesses, without which there is no salvation. 2. Grace,
for that by it we are upheld, supported, and enabled to go through our needy times, as Christians,
without which there is no salvation neither. The first all will grant, the second is clear:
'If any man draws back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him; but we are not of them who draw
back unto perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul' (Heb 10:38,39).

1. Mercy is that by which we are pardoned, even all the falls, faults, failings, and weaknesses,
that attend us, and that we are incident to, in this our day of temptation; and for this mercy
we should pray, and say, 'Our Father, forgive us our trespasses' (Matt 6:9-12). For though
mercy is free in the exercise of it to usward, yet God will have us ask, that we may have;
as he also saith in the text, 'Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain
mercy.' Here then we have one help, and that is, the mercy of God is to be extended to us from
his throne through Jesus Christ, for our pardon and forgiveness in all those weaknesses that
we are attended with in the needy or evil times; and we should come to God for this very thing.
Set me clear and free from guilt, and from the imputation of sin unto death, by Christ.

Nor can any thing help where this is wanting; for our parts, our knowledge, our attainments,
nor our graces, cannot so carry us through this world, but that we shall be guilty of that
that will sink us down to hell, without God's pardoning mercy. It is not the grace that we
have received can do it, nor the grace that is to be received that can do it; nothing can do
it but the pardoning mercy of God: for because all our graces are here imperfect, they cannot
produce a spotless obedience. But where there is not a spotless obedience, there must of necessity
follow a continuation of pardon and forgiveness by mercy, or I know what will become of the
soul. Here, therefore, the apostle lays an obligation upon thee to the throne of grace, to
wit, that thou mayest obtain mercy, a continuation of mercy, mercy as long as thou art like
to live this vain life on the earth; mercy that will reach through all thy days. We receive
not our mercies so humbly, so readily, so gladly, and with that thankfulness as we should:
and therefore, for the want of these, have the need of another, and another act of God's sin-pardoning
mercy, and need shall have thereof, as long as evil time shall last with us.

But is not this great grace, that we should thus be called upon to come to God for mercy? Yea,
is not God unspeakably good, in providing such a throne of grace, such a sacrifice, such a
high priest, and so much mercy for us, and then to invite us to come with boldness to him for
it? Nay, doth not his kindness yet further appear, by giving of us items and intimations of
needy times, and evil days, on purpose to provoke us to come to him for mercy? This then shows
us, as also we have hinted before, that the throne of grace, and Christ Jesus our High Priest,
are both provided upon the account of our imperfections, namely, that we who are called might
not be, by remaining weaknesses, hindered of, but obtain eternal inheritance. Weaknesses, such
weaknesses remain in the justified, and such slips and failings are found in and upon them,
that call for a course of mercy and forgiveness to attend them. Farther, this also intimates,
that God's people should not be dejected at the apprehensions of their imperfections; I say,
not so dejected, as therefore to cast off faith, and hope, and prayer; for a throne of grace
is provided for them, to the which they may, they must, they ought continually to resort for
mercy, sin-pardoning mercy.

2. As we are here to obtain mercy, so we are here to find grace. They that obtain mercy, shall
find grace, therefore they are put together. That they may obtain mercy and find grace; only
they must find mercy first; for as forgiveness at first goes before sanctification in the general,
so forgiveness afterwards goes before particular acts of grace for further sanctification.
God giveth not the spirit of grace to those that he has not first forgiven by mercy, for the
sake of Christ.[37] Also so long as he as a Father forbears to forgive us as his adopted, so
long we go without those further additions of grace that are here suggested in the text. But
when we have obtained mercy to forgive, then we also find grace to our renewing. Therefore
he saith, First obtain mercy, and then find grace.

Grace here I take to be that grace which God has appointed for us, to dwell in us; and that
by and through the continual supply of which we are to be enabled to do and suffer, and to
manage ourselves in doing and suffering according to the will of God. So again, 'he giveth
more grace; wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble'
(James 4:6; Prov 3:34; 1 Peter 5:5). The grace, therefore, that this text intends, is grace
given or to be given; grace received or to be received; grace a root, a principle of grace,
with its continual supplies for the perfecting of that salvation that God has designed for
us. This was that which comforted Paul, when the messenger of Satan was sent to buffet him,
it was said unto him by Christ, 'My grace is sufficient for thee' (2 Cor 12:9). As who should
say, Paul, be not utterly cast down, I have wherewith all to make thee stand, and overcome,
and that is my grace, by which thou shalt be supported, strengthened, comforted, and made to
live a triumphant life, notwithstanding all that oppress thee. But this came to him upon his
praying; for this I prayed to God thrice, saith he. So again, 'God is able to make all grace
abound toward you; that ye always have all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good
work' (2 Cor 9:8). Thus you see, that by grace in these places is meant that spirit, and those
principles of grace, by the increase and continual supply of which we are inwardly strengthened,
and made to abound to every good work.

This then is the conclusion, That as there is mercy to be obtained by us at the throne of grace,
for the pardon of all our weaknesses; so there is also grace there to be found that will yet
strengthen us more, to all good walking and living before him. He giveth more grace, and they
receive one time or another abundance of grace that shall reign in life by one Jesus Christ.
This then teaches us several things, some of which I will mention. As,

[What this should teach us.]

1. That nature, as nature, is not capable of serving of God: no, not nature where grace dwells,
as considered abstract from that grace that dwells in it. Nothing can be done aright without
grace, I mean no part nor piece of gospel-duty. 'Let us have grace whereby we may serve God
acceptably.' Nature, managed by grace, seasoned with grace, and held up with grace, can serve
God acceptably. Let us have grace, seek for and find grace to do so; for we cannot do so but
by grace: 'By the grace of God I am what I am; and his grace which was bestowed upon me, was
not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all; yet not I, but the grace of God
which was with me' (1 Cor 15:10). He called them weak and pathetic by Rolfe
to accept even a piece of bread! What -? they should obey like him straightforwardly, the man
who had left her shamefully, now he called imperiously to himself, because he just took? Richard
intoxicated formally angry scornful words - his Mother he had never seen so passionately moved.
But she had a powerful counterweight to all of his violent speeches: the gratitude that we the
wounded Hero of his country was guilty, and before each, but any personal sensitivity not to have.
Against this objection he had to fall silent here, the reason was that with him suddenly moved to
resist no longer. In no case, he wanted to but because of the greater convenience of living,
or more abundant and finer food and such Wretchedness be tempted to step out of bitter isolation.
This should this professor not only imagine. With such childish means he was not intercepted. Incidentally,
it was his opinion, probably just the mother. He was as annoying Appendage just tolerated.
Both seemed equally outrageous. He observed Rolfers suspicious was nothing else than a uniform courtesy
notice in conduct against the Mother. Damn, it had been different, he was capable of many and
would have this professor have to say his opinion! He was at times almost choked when he saw the
Martha Man with a loving humility was - it was helpful to hand him the meat is cooked, the
peeled fruit, the wine poured. Through this inner anger then encouraged Richard re right in the
intent to not let go, even from good food to him tasted excellent to never take a second time,
by just enough, as he barely Used to eat. Which was not always easy to him, because the strong
air of that between two seas lying tract of land brought him an unexpected healthy appetite, and
the professor as the mother was so cruel, yet persuade him hard.

Many things attracted his curiosity in the rooms, the country probably easy, but with of course
artistic taste were established and in some strange piece of folk Carvings and Webearbeiten, old books
in strange and exotic objects contained.

A hundred times he wanted a question on the origin and history, between relationships and Availability of
things to jump over the lips and he had to grit your teeth vigorously, to not let go. The worst
was when the early afternoon clash with and rattle the ancient stagecoach wobbled through the
village and was sent or Luetje He even rushed there to get the new newspapers, and he not with
the mother and Professor could talk about all the huge acts that happened out there, but so dumb and
had to stand aside. It was with such vows a bitter thing!

Then again, he told himself that he would never understand the man. For one, the been there,
he seemed to Richard too quiet, even from a bitter, hard indifference the boys rebelled. He could
if were frightening or glorious news, the printed sheets lay aside
silently and without saying a word for half an hour the right to stare
down.

That was the boy scary.

Most of all he wandered outside in the garden and yard, around in the stable and barn. He found
a highly attractive world. With the old Luetje he had quickly made friends and had from him
not only in Holstein Low German, but also in the feeding and putting
the cart before Liese teach.

Surprised, he stood before the draw-well, looked in fairy tales showers flows, in its dark
depths close to the bottom of which the water glistened softly, and laughed, when the high clumsy
move and honker before the age of a coal-black leather bucket Strickland were lowered to fill,
slow climb back up. Ice cold and it was clear the water and tasted a bit like steel, it came
from the mysterious center the Earth's interior and was wearing a bit of primal power in itself.
- It was him every day a new delight, Early in the dark gray of the winter morning, to swing
on the box seat of the little basket cart and snap to learn under the direction of the old coachman
the reins, the whip, to encourage the prudent Liese fastest pace and, with a bold arch of the
drive up economy of the ancient town, where Liza was found during he himself turned to the sciences
that him at that time on the course, the least Knowledge worthy of all the good things of the
earth considered themselves. The schoolboy bored him. With the heavy closed, something insidious
nature of these low-and German farmers Landowner sons he did not have much to start. Knowledge
of life he was to them far forward. He made a remark which seemed to him, of course, they understood
him at all do not put their heads together behind his back and laughed. Although he impressed
newly discovered what they were familiar of old, and now suddenly a very different side illuminated
and viewed, searched them and seemed strange. Hellauf blazed his Joy in everything that moved,
grew, was alive in animal and plant life. He could are absorbed and quickly check the spotted
cows in the morning through the silent city streets were driven, and miss about the start of
school. He did really prefer any Day to feed the pigs, and saw their greedy trunk sewers. He
stared with an intensity his bright eyes dunkelbewimperten in the wrinkled face of a clear-cut
farmers, that embarrassed and annoyed the old man turned himself muttering, as if this boy
look to him to steal his secrets, bring in some incomprehensible way to light, how much Money
he had placed on the savings bank, or explore other things to know not everyone needed.

* * * * *

Rolfers often heard in the next room with pleasure the fresh voice so ebullient eagerly interrupted
by loud, hearty laugh, the mother reported that Richard unusual Curiosity and had met. He
was careful, both by appearing to sudden silence to bring. It was his desire to be alone a lot,
the pain that plagued him even more often, to do with himself, he
wanted to mother and son the opportunity, without disturbing its to
the presence in the house and garden are home.

       It had to happen well before he remember was allowed, the defiant
isolation in which the boy liked clear, almost attack.

But sometimes he was impatient.

Him who had no attachment to sentimentality moving, it is strange if he through the village went
to the post office or otherwise procured a trade route, and the country people, who never and the
least in this area tend to be courteous, at the sight of his empty drooping Sleeve with awkward reverence
our caps covered. The boys stood at attention, shouted Hurrah, where he passed away, or ran to
them, help him open a door, a gate. Women approached, asked where he "got the" - and "your" is also here,
and when he thought that peace would come, as did the fact of his
injuries is sufficient, it have clairvoyant Equip forces.

Andre earned him the last apples, the first fresh eggs into the house or an old chicken broth
to a final. Rolfers never had much traffic with the villagers cared - he was above all free and live
unmolested in his house do - he knew now well enough that no such signs of love and kindness his person
were, but from a warm feeling of gratitude to the protectors of the country were given. However,
they did it well and joined him strangely fixed with the people who lived around him under the
old grünbemoosten high straw roofs. His greeting was cordial. Here and there he remained standing
with the elderly, the had sons at the front, to establish a dialogue, asking for letters, statements,
to give, as far as he could, wounded and missing in research on the right to direct routes.
He went out of the house, he was among friends, and it depressed him nigh with an unbearable
tension that your son could see in him only the "enemy". It was less Richards unfriendly and
cold nature, what troubled him, but rather the inability of the boys from the Personal to a
higher and stronger Intuitive world soar.

By the commander of his regiment he was in France on one occasion, in the The Company had awarded
to the Iron Cross has been promised. Then came his injury caused thereby to the repeated change
of the place. Rolfers believed the matter long forgotten and did not take steps to bring them
back into memory. As was him the Cross by the colonel of his regiment on behalf of General still
sent. He went over in the common dining room where he heard Richard and Martha to the woman's to bring
honor to sign and ask them to fix it to the black and white ribbon in his buttonhole. He knew he
did this only for the boy.

Richard approached, took the cross as it lay on the table, in the
hand and looked thoughtfully it down.

But he then put it down again, threw a shy bright side glance of Rolf and dealt with some
other things without utter a word.

"You're a right Stoffel," scolded Martha. "Can not you do the uncle of happiness?" She had found
a way out of this designation of the existing relations between them.

"Well, that has yet almost everyone," the boy growled in response. "What's going on because there!"

"Richard, how could you be naughty so - I must be ashamed for you," cried the And mother had tears in
his voice.

"Let's just Martha," said Rolf quiet. "He's quite right. There really is nothing else as a memorial
sign that one has done his duty. It has other more. "

Richard pulled the corners of his mouth contemptuously down. He had expected safe, a bit pathetic
to hear from Rolf 'mouth of the Iron Cross, had already prepared
internally, however, and it hurt him that now was nothing like that.

"The guy obviously has not the least patriotic feeling," it went through the boy's Brain. "Ugh,
how distasteful to me is this condescending cold!"

He strolled out to his friend Luetje, slamming the door with a considerable bang.

Rolfers stepped up to the mother, and softly stroked her hair. It
was the first soft contact since they lived together.

"Patience, child," he said. "Never go fast such conquests. On a good portion childish rudeness
I have made myself prepared. This does nothing to the point. Just please I love you, do not scold
the boy, or he is completely hardened. "

Martha sighed. It was suffering from anxiety, which are not different from their life together
wanted. It had an abundance of hope stirred in her heart, and now seemed to be no to want
to flower. She had been right with their fears. Was not it thousand have been relaxed, as she and
her two-room boy in the Berlin garden apartment happily lived and loved her? What was the sacrifice
that she and her soul forgiveness had brought fruit for now - the man - and how she hoped also
to her boy? None of them any good it seemed to grow. Any housekeeper or nurse could afford what
they did for Franz Rolfes. If he no longer wanted? But he seemed very frugal. A recluse he had
become locked in a long time of their separation.

- - Or should he be bound but somewhere. To a woman, against whom he and many delicate to take
social considerations had? Humiliated them at the end for nothing? He seemed to open his correspondence
spread before her, spoke frankly to her about all and its commercial and pecuniary affairs. But
in addition, he practiced it constantly in writing with the left hand. Maybe he awaited impatiently
the moment when he one loved one, finally, the legitimate mail from themselves without the mediation
of a Third parties could give?

Was he in the lovely, tastefully decorated room, where she lived, in the bed where they slept,
occasionally accommodates female visits? The old coachman knew about it ... the white-haired
woman in the blue print dress, the clatter in the kitchen with the dishes, would have their information
can be. But it would have been an impossibility Martha Lebus, they auszuforschen. No, Rolfes'
life in the meantime, since he left belonged to him, - As you theirs. He had never asked her
if other men had come near her. It hurt Martha, that he would not
hear.

       Why they had in the many years kept as good, if he was indifferent?

* * * * *

In the upper floor of the house had been the former owner of a spacious studio room at the gable expanded.
Now it remained closed. Rolfers this winter did not even have the Staircase leading up to enter.

One
afternoon in the snowy dusk brought the truck driver two images boxes,
provided by a closed issue has been returned.

Luetje dragged her upstairs and called Richard , to let themselves
be the key to the studio of Mr. Rolf and him to open the door.

Richard Sun entered the studio of his father - for the first time
he saw the workshop of an artist.

»Luetje, you shut the studio again," asked Martha.

"No, Richard is still the top!"

"My God - so long ... I just want the same ... I hope he does not
specify a nonsense, "cried she worried.

"Nah - it makes non-nonsense - just the looks on the pictures," growled
Luetje.

"Let him," decided Rolfers.

"He can not see anything - do you not go up yet,"

Rolfers made a
negative motion, and sat by the window in the old armchair, where
he rested you.

After a while the mother could not fail to go to the door and call out:

"Richard, where are you? Come to me! "

Rolfers shook his head.

"Can you women for never understand what a first impression for a person? You love the boy -
and not begrudge him that ... "

"I frightens me, he could discard or destroy ..."

"And if - what is it ... I want to see him - his face - while he was around haunts ... "

Martha had made her gray soldiers trump again. The needles rattled hurriedly moved by restless
fingers.

Anything else Richard had always obeyed ...

After a while she heard him fall down the stairs cautiously, sneaking down the hall, the front door
aufklinken.

"He ought to come to tea," remarked the mother.

"No, he should not now come to tea - Let him go, he will be alone with him." Rolfers leaned forward,
lifted the curtain and looked at the little figure piece on the Garden gate in obedience to turned
the corner, struck the lonely path to the moor.

       When he returned looked back into the room where the woman had now
lit the lamp, shone his Trains warm and outgoing.

"- I will never forget how happy I was when I first came in a museum - my mother took me one
day unexpectedly into town and went in with me! - How drunk am I
walked around for four days - got to blame blame the school because
I was not looking - Yes - I remember - a colossal hams with as Rubens'
NEM leaping lion beast and an overweight female person - the totally
overwhelmed me - now I find it disgusting - It was just the force
that luxury, because yelling at me so ... "He laughed gutlaunig, by
immersing himself in his childhood memories.

"Then I went's up first, that I Painters must be ... "

Martha asked again and was telling herself as she supplied him with tea and cigarettes to him
and fire caused. It had always been her favorite hours when he fell into chat - It was already
rare enough, and was always a sign of particularly good mood. Suddenly there came a point where the
inexorable presence again, eerily serene against the Merry pushed
past did.

And the man stopped, was in the chair, in a blue smoke haze wrapped,
and dreamed of irretrievable happiness unrestrained creativity.

Musical memories arose in his brain, from the melodies, as his inner
ear heard, rose colors up, attached to each other symphonic, lines
glided into leitmotifs as they wanted something by him, his imagination
she spun together on draft. - - Rolfers them looked like they were
formed and gradually melted away ...

* * * * *

The professor gave
Luetje the order to heat the studio space. said after lunch He in
his brief way to Richard:

"The images have to be unpacked and neuverschickt.

You can come up with after and help me.

"

The conversation was limited and the top of the dusty, with sketches, drawings hung, to set
aside screens, with maps, bottles, paint tubes, palettes and easels cramped space on the instructions
that the boy was Rolfers.

He fumbled fairly sent with a screwdriver and chisel on the flat
boxes.

Rolfers watched him and had no eyes for all the memories of works
produced in begun, after completion screamed.

When Richard picked a picture out of the box, he called his name, put it on an easel.

"This is our mud," said the boy is pleased.

"How do you recognize it?"

"Well - but here, the large mountain ash and Torfgraben. That must be fine if the heath Sun flower.
"

"- - Yes - a great color - the brown of the soil is famous for the purple of Flower surface.
In many a year, she is also pale - purple - The air sounds here are
always so heavy and tired - "

The "I want to see ...,« said Richard, whose eyes rested intently at the picture.

"Will you have time."

"The peat ... that's the old Timme - in the little house where the
moss on the many Roof grows - the more so dull sitting in front of
the door ... "

"Yes - he is drowsy - has 's look like an old animal that just made'
is out crawling m Moor.

Wait a minute, - be somewhere around here, the studies to be the picture - you can see it, like
so what. "

The boy was embarrassed, while Rolf leafed through the folders.

       He hastily jumped to the referred to the large table wear.

Rolfers took sheet to sheet out - said spoke about his plans, experiments, discussed the differences
between image and study of Composition and perspective - as a matter of personal definition
of art ... He thought hardly the fact that he had before him a boy, which had to be everything Bohemian
villages. He talked witty, vivid and apt as it was made of his grown-up painting class College
students would have spoken. He went into the studio back and forth, occupied his remarks on
the place, even in color sketches of colleagues with sensible Examples.

"Are you interested in actually for these things," he said, breaking off.

The boy nodded eagerly.

Rolfers smiled. Such a clear view source had Martha may have at times - if they toward him, expecting
trembling with love and tenderness, his embrace, his kiss.

Strange, how could revive dead things and then was so new and different ...

A silence had arisen in the Rolfers heard the voice of the boy, in shy and hoarse Excitation:

"I
want to show you something - well - it's nothin '- I know ..."

"So
- get's and then we'll see"

He shot down over the living room of
his mother: "You - he wants to see my sketches ..."

She saw the bright
spiritual beauty, the young face shone through - no so - so had their
young never seen it before.

A pain that made them totally dizzy,
ran it from the heart to the finger tips.

Why I had his power back
into our lives? she thought, full of hatred.

* * * * *

Now Richard
was a pupil of his father. Of him was a tough teacher. Often the boy
would Sunday morning, a thousand times rather dreamy, sipped, would
aimlessly in the village and the Neighborhood around stripes. That's
no longer existed. The barren time, the duties of the school remained,
had to be exploited. The worst thing for Richard was that he should
again from scratch . Start Box of paints, brushes and colors can be
set aside - only draw with charcoal, red chalk, with a pencil - but
draw only. Which he found humiliating and philistine. He leaned inwardly,
however, and often regretted enough that he look into his work in
Rolfers was. It had been a sweet dream and try to date, a filling
leisure hours. What was hot work, he learned now erst.

Leafing through
his earlier sketches, he had one day laboriously scribbled discovered
"4" on the clean school drawing and made his thoughts. The Professor
his work had already seen so ... Well - the mother had had probably
not able to brag to him.

But how could that be - should be about
but the interest of his, are in Richard's work played at the invitation
of the professor any role? If it is not only the mother and have their
care services be? Referring thereto at the end of the remark of the
professor: "Remember one thing, my boy - I can insult your rudeness
does not -

16. Our first lesson is of sin, righteousness, and judgment; second, Christ's obedience unto
death for our salvation; third, Christ ascended to God's right hand, the Mediator and Advocate.
Thus the bitter comes before the sweet, to make the sweet the sweeter.--Ed.

17. Alluding to these destructive operations of nature, the whirlwind and the whirlpool, the
first whirling fancies that Christ saves from the punishment, and not from the power of sin,
takes them from the gospel hope, and the second receives them into the vortex of misery. O
my soul, be watchful unto prayer at a throne of grace, for who can withstand the whirlpool
if once within its influence?--Ed.

18. To see the fulness and freeness of the treasures of grace in Christ--to see that we must
partake of it or perish--to be looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith, are
indeed powerful incentives to keep us near the throne of grace.--Ed.

19. Probably a frightful military saying heard by Bunyan, when serving in the debauched army
of Charles I, from some of Prince Rupert's cavaliers.--Ed.

20. How much this paragraph reminds us of the experience of poor Christian in his fearful battle
with the fiend!

21. 'Spaked'; marked with small spots.--Ed.

22. Instituted, inducted, or installed.--Ed.

23. Exposed to violence--blindfolded or hoodwinked.--Ed.

24. Protestants can have little idea of the idolatry used in the Church of Rome. Something
may be gathered from the following directions, given in a very beautiful office for Good Friday,
corrected by royal authority, in conformity with the breviary and missal of our holy father
Pope Urban VIII, printed at Paris by Posset:--

'The priest having retired a little behind the altar, the deacon takes the cross (a plain wooden
cross without the figure), covered with a veil, and gives it to the priest, who turns to the
people and shows the top of the cross, before which they all prostrate themselves and kiss
the ground, singing Ecce lignum crucis. He then removes the veil from the right limb of the
cross, and lifts it up, singing, still louder, Behold the wood of the cross; again the people
prostrate themselves. The priest then comes to the middle of the altar, and taking off the
veil, exhibits the wooden cross to be adored; then setting it down, he goes on his knees, and
rising, takes off his shoes and approaches the cross to worship it, making three genuflections,
and kisses it. All the clergy who are present take off their shoes, prostrate themselves, worship
and kiss the cross in the order of their dignity. All the officers of the church, and all the
people, follow in the same manner to adore it, while solemn music and chanting attends and
completes the ceremony.' Thus a wooden board, made into the shape of a cross by some joiner,
receives Divine honours. Talk not of heathen idols. Who can wonder that honest John Bunyan
felt indignation, and exclaimed, 'O idolatry! O blasphemy!'--Ed.

25. An extraneous taste that leaves a sting behind, as, 'She had a tongue with a tang.' 'The
wine has a tang of the cask.'--Ed.

26. This use of the word 'resent' has been long obsolete; it expressed a deep sense or strong
perception of good as well as evil; in this place it means, 'proved to have been satisfactory
or gratifying.'--Ed.

27. How sublime is the Christian system, in its adaptation to all God's intelligent creatures!
So lovely in its simplicity, that the child--nay, even the poor Bushman of Africa, or the half-idiot
native of New South Wales--is able readily to comprehend how God, for Christ's sake, can blot
out all iniquities and transgressions; while the noblest intellect admires and adores its vast
and extensive ramifications of mercies. Blessings numerous and unbounded are developed, reaching,
in their ultimate effects, far beyond the utmost stretch of human perception, even when the
most brilliant imagination is enlightened and sanctified by the Holy Ghost. The intentions
of mercy commence in the purposes of God before the creation--are infinite in extent--and eternal
in duration. How is Divine wisdom and mercy thus displayed in the adaptation of the gospel
to the personal inquiry and reception of every individual of the human race!--Ed.

28. The beginning, increase, and perfection of life eternal, consists in holy knowledge; that
God and Christ are of the same nature, equal in power and glory. As Christ is the most excellent
object, therefore the knowledge of Christ is, and must be the most excellent knowledge; not
only all the excellencies of the creatures are found in him, but all excellencies, yea, the
fulness of the Godhead, dwells in him bodily. All learning, in comparison of the knowledge
of Christ, is the most contemptible ignorance. He is the wisdom of God, and our highest wisdom
will be, with holy Paul, to part with whatever is most dear and precious to us, that we may
win Christ, receiving him as he is revealed in the word of truth.--Mason.

29. Power of exercising affection and feeling.--Ed.

30. Bunyan's daughter, Mary, was blind, and thus became an object of his tenderest solicitude.
When he was sent to prison for preaching, he felt for her far more than for all other worldly
objects. 'My poor blind child. O the thoughts of the hardship she might go under would break
my heart to pieces.'--Grace Abounding, No. 320 and 329.--Ed.

31. It is a stupendous and unspeakably blessed privilege that Christ and believers are one
flesh. Husband and wife, soul and body, are not so closely united as Christ and believers are
to each other. He has carried their sorrows, borne their punishment, and procured complete
redemption for them. And eternal blessings on him! he now ever liveth in heaven to act and
intercede for them. He there exercises a tender and compassionate spirit towards his suffering
children and servants here on earth. His love and pity to every individual of his church, infinitely
exceeds that of the most affectionate parent towards their offspring. Our extremity is his
opportunity--he is touched with the feeling of our infirmities, will give consolation under,
sanctify, and at length deliver the godly out of all temptations and afflictions.--Mason.

32. As this is Satan's temptation in the time of poverty, so the time of prosperity is equally
dangerous--the love of gain, when it possesses the soul, is insatiable. Satan whispers into
the ear, and the heart too readily entertains the wicked thought--'Get money; if you cannot
do it honestly, still get money.' The most contemptible meannesses have been practised by the
wealthy. O beware of that ruinous idolatry, covetousness.--Ed.

33. Query, is this that part of a Christian's experience referred to in the Pilgrim's Progress,
the second part of the Valley of the Shadow of Death?--Ed.

34. No man could speak more experimentally on the pain inflicted by slander, although utterly
unfounded, than John Bunyan. So eminent a man became a mark for Satan and his emissaries to
shoot at. He was charged with witchcraft, called a highwayman, and every slander that malice
could invent was heaped upon him. His remedy, his consolation, was the throne of grace--a specific
that never did, nor ever will fail.--Ed.

35. The late Rev. John Newton, who lived to a good old age, in his latter days used to tell
his friends--'I am like a parcel, packed up and directed, only waiting the carrier to take
me to my destination'; blessed tranquility under such solemn circumstances.--Ed.

36.

37. Grace, mercy, peace, justification, sanctification, and glorification, all flow from Christ
the propitiatory sacrifice, in whom, as his beloved, the Father accepts us graciously, and
loves us freely.--Mason.

38. Spiritual strength, like bodily food, must be renewed day by day. The necessity of daily
food for our bodies should remind us of that bread that cometh down from heaven, and that water
of life which, as a river, maketh glad the city of our God. 'As oft as ye do this,' eat and
drink, 'ye do show the Lord's death.' O that such a recollection may have an abiding influence
upon our souls!--Ed.

39. In those days travellers did well to advance as far in a day as we now do in an hour. To
make a country tour, required then the same precautions, as to supplies, as it now does to
make the grand tour of Europe. To have carried coin would have been a great encumbrance, as
well as risk from robbers. How accurately Bunyan knew the mode used in such cases to secure
supplies, and with what beautiful simplicity it is spiritualized.--Ed.

40. How truly and solemnly is the downward road of a sinner here portrayed. 1. Drawn aside
by lust. 2. A lie to conceal his wicked folly. 3. Intoxication, to drown his convictions and
harden his conscience. 4. The consequent ruin of his worldly prospects; and, 5. A vain effort
by fraud to keep up his credit!!!--Ed.

41. It was in Bunyan's time the universally received opinion that Satan appeared in the shape
of animals to allure poor wretches into sin--Shakespeare, Judge Hale, Cotton Mather, Baxter,
with all our eminent men, believed in these supernatural appearances.--Ed.

***

THE ACCEPTABLE SACRIFICE;

OR,

THE EXCELLENCY OF A BROKEN HEART:

SHOWING THE NATURE, SIGNS, AND PROPER EFFECTS OF A CONTRITE SPIRIT.

BEING THE LAST WORKS OF THAT EMINENT PREACHER AND FAITHFUL MINISTER OF JESUS CHRIST, MR. JOHN
BUNYAN, OF BEDFORD.

WITH A PREFACE PREFIXED THEREUNTO BY AN EMINENT MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL IN LONDON.

London: Sold by George Larkin, at the Two Swans without Bishopgates, 1692.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

The very excellent preface to this treatise, written by George Cokayn, will inform the reader
of the melancholy circumstances under which it was published, and of the author's intention,
and mode of treatment. Very little more need be said, by way of introducing to our readers
this new edition of Bunyan's Excellency of a Broken Heart. George Cokayn was a gospel minister
in London, who became eventually connected with the Independent denomination. He was a learned
man--brought up at the university--had preached before the House of Commons--was chaplain to
that eminent statesman and historian, Whitelocke--was rector of St. Pancras, Soper Lane--remarkable
for the consistency of his conduct and piety of his life--but as he dared not to violate his
conscience, by conformity to ceremonies or creeds which he deemed antichristian, he suffered
under persecution, and, with upwards of two thousand godly ministers, was ejected from his
living, and thrown upon the care of Divine Providence for daily food. The law ordered him to
be silent, and not to set forth the glories of his Saviour; but his heavenly Father had ordained
him to preach. There was no hesitation as to whom he would obey. At the risk of imprisonment,
transportation, and death, he preached; and God honoured his ministry, and he became the founder
of a flourishing church in Hare Court, London. His preface bears the date of September, 1688;
and, at a good old age, he followed Bunyan to the celestial city, in 1689. It is painful to
find the author's Baptist friends keeping aloof because of his liberal sentiments; but it is
delightful to witness the hearty affection with which an Independent minister recommends the
work of a Baptist; and truly refreshing to hear so learned a man commending most earnestly
the work of a poor, unlettered, but gigantic brother in the ministry. Surely there is water
enough connected with that controversy to quench any unholy fire that differences of opinion
might ignite. George Cokayn appears to have possessed much a kindred spirit with John Bunyan.
Some of his expressions are remarkably Bunyanish. Thus, when speaking of the jailor, 'who was
a most barbarous, hard-hearted wretch; yet, when God came to deal with him, he was soon tamed,
and his heart became exceeding soft and tender.' And when alluding to the Lord's voice, in
softening the sinner's heart, he says: 'This is a glorious work indeed, that hearts of stone
should be dissolved and melted into waters of godly sorrow, working repentance.'

The subject of a broken heart is one of vital importance, because it is essential to salvation.
The heart, by nature, is hard, and cannot, and will not break itself. Angels have no power
to perform this miracle of mercy and of justice. It is the work of the Holy Spirit in the NEW
BIRTH. Some have supposed that God always prepares the heart for this solemn, this important
change, by a stroke of his providence; but it is not so. Who dares limit the Almighty? He takes
his own way with the sinner--one by a whisper, another by a hurricane. Some are first alarmed
by the preaching of the Word--many by conversation with a pious friend or neighbour; some by
strokes of Providence--but all are led to a prayerful searching of the holy oracles, until
there, by the enlightening influence of the Spirit, they find consolation. The great question
is, not as to the means, but the fact--Have I been born again? Have I been grafted into Christ?
Do I bring forth the fruits of godliness in mourning over my sins, and, in good words and works,
am I a living epistle known and read of all--men, angels, devils--and of the Omniscient God?
These are the all-important inquiries which, I trust, will deeply influence every reader. Let
two of Bunyan's remarks make an indelible impression on every mind: 'God will break ALL hearts
for sin, either here to repentance and happiness, or in the world to come to condemnation and
misery.' 'Consider thou must die but once; I mean but once as to this world, for if thou, when
thou goest hence, dost not die well, thou canst not come back again and die better.' May our
spirits be baptized into these solemn truths, and our broken hearts be an acceptable sacrifice
to God.

GEO. OFFOR.

A PREFACE TO THE READER.

The author of the ensuing discourse--now with God, reaping the fruit of all his labour, diligence,
and success, in his Master's service--did experience in himself, through the grace of God,
the nature, excellency, and comfort of a truly broken and contrite spirit. So that what is
here written is but a transcript out of his own heart: for God--who had much work for him to
do--was still hewing and hammering him by his Word, and sometimes also by more than ordinary
temptations and desertions. The design, and also the issue thereof, through God's goodness,
was the humbling and keeping of him low in his own eyes. The truth is, as himself sometimes
acknowledged, he always needed the thorn in the flesh, and God in mercy sent it him, lest,
under his extraordinary circumstances, he should be exalted about measure; which perhaps was
the evil that did more easily beset him than any other. But the Lord was pleased to overrule
it, to work for his good, and to keep him in that broken frame which is so acceptable unto
him, and concerning which it is said, that 'He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up
their wounds' (Psa 147:3). And, indeed, it is a most necessary qualification that should always
be found in the disciples of Christ, who are most eminent, and as stars of the first magnitude
in the firmament of the church. Disciples, in the highest form of profession, need to be thus
qualified in the exercise of every grace, and the performance of every duty. It is that which
God doth principally and more especially look after, in all our approaches and accesses to
him. It is to him that God will look, and with him God will dwell, who is poor, and of a contrite
spirit (Isa 57:15, 66:2). And the reason why God will manifest so much respect to one so qualified,
is because he carries it so becomingly towards him. He comes and lies at his feet, and discovers
a quickness of sense, and apprehensiveness of whatever may be dishonourable and distasteful
to God (Psa 38:4). And if the Lord doth at any time but shake his rod over him, he comes trembling,
and kisses the rod, and says, 'It is the Lord; let him do what seemeth him good' (1 Sam 3:18).
He is sensible he hath sinned and gone astray like a lost sheep, and, therefore, will justify
God in his severest proceedings against him. This broken heart is also a pliable and flexible
heart, and prepared to receive whatsoever impressions God shall make upon it, and is ready
to be moulded into any frame that shall best please the Lord. He says, with Samuel, 'Speak,
Lord, for thy servant heareth' (1 Sam 3:10). And with David, 'When thou saidst, Seek ye my
face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek' (Psa 27:8). And so with Paul, who
tremblingly said, 'Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?' (Acts 9:6).

Now, therefore, surely such a heart as this is must needs be very delightful to God. He says
to us, 'My son, give me thine heart' (Prov 23:26). But, doubtless, he means there a broken
heart: an unbroken heart we may keep to ourselves; it is the broken heart which God will have
us to give to him; for, indeed, it is all the amends that the best of us are capable of making,
for all the injury we have done to God in sinning against him. We are not able to give better
satisfaction for breaking God's laws, than by breaking our own hearts; this is all that we
can do of that kind; for the blood of Christ only must give the due and full satisfaction to
the justice of God for what provocations we are at any time guilty of; but all that we can
do is to accompany the acknowledgments we make of miscarriages with a broken and contrite spirit.
Therefore we find, that when David had committed those two foul sins of adultery and murder,
against God, he saw that all his sacrifices signified nothing to the expiating of his guilt;
therefore he brings to God a broken heart, which carried in it the best expression of indignation
against himself, as of the highest respect he could show to God (2 Cor 7:11).

The day in which we live, and the present circumstances which the people of God and these nations
are under, do loudly proclaim a very great necessity of being in this broken and tender frame;
for who can foresee what will be the issue of these violent fermentations that are amongst
us? Who knows what will become of the ark of God? Therefore it is a seasonable duty with old
Eli to sit trembling for it. Do we not also hear the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of wars;
and ought we not, with the prophet, to cry out, 'My bowels, my bowels! I am pained at my very
heart; my heart maketh a noise in me, I cannot hold my peace,' &c. (Jer 4:19). Thus was that
holy man affected with the consideration of what might befall Jerusalem, the temple and ordinances
of God, &c., as the consequence of the present dark dispensations they were under. Will not
a humble posture best become us when we have humbling providences in prospect? Mercy and judgment
seem to be struggling in the same womb of providence; and which will come first out we know
not; but neither of them can we comfortably meet, but with a broken and a contrite spirit.
If judgment comes, Josiah's posture of tenderness will be the best we can be found in; and
also to say, with David, 'My flesh trembleth for fear of thee, and I am afraid of thy judgments'
(Psa 119:120).

But such as know the power of his anger will have a deep awe of God upon their hearts, and,
observing him in all his motions, will have the greatest apprehensions of his displeasure.
So that when he is coming forth in any terrible dispensation, they will, according to their
duty, prepare to meet him with a humble and broken heart. It was not a Frederick, but a true war Erich; because of the war
and the savagery stuck in it, and he was by no schoolmaster nor chastise to the rankings, but went
by like a Cossack and Tartar horse. He was beautiful, sunshine and strong as Eichbaeume and
over in all its ferocity people pleasant and pleasing the masses, so that each of the boys liked.
After his father's Death, when he was fifteen years old now and should obey an older brother,
who the son was the real wife of the old red mouth, he endured the stricter discipline, but
rather ran away and came to the island of Hiddensee, and went from there out to ships in the world
and was a huge Matros. When he is the merry marine life half a dozen years trying had, he once
again came to Stralsund and from there to Bergen Ruegen at home, where his mother lived. And his
mother and other friends persuaded him there, he should remain in the country, which God has fixed
beams down under and the restless and uncertain Sea leave. And he is a Foerster went into teaching,
that he the happiest fun and learned woodcraft, and a nimble and pretty soon became huntsman, in
which the women and girls in the doors and windows stopped and looks and friendly greeting
us and nodded when he vorueberging, for he is probably one of the most beautiful Reisig and
most people have that could be seen far and wide. Here he has now, however, as often happens
when the huntsmen, learned many things forbidden arts, is a Freischuetz become, and has won the
Rabenstein. This was the brave sailors just a game been, what in the wildest storm never a mast
too high nor too smooth was that he him and climbed from its top the howling sea merry in the open jaws
of death would have looked.

Rotermund Fritz - so people called him - has now by his discoveries of the Raven no stone can remember,
but even used his karfunklischen Diebsschluessel funny, but because
He was very kind and friendly by nature, he did not have a very horrible
deeds, but those which identifies the frivolous youth often funny
pranks.

Because he and his Stein was able to go invisible in all the houses and chambers, he has indeed
a funny gift used, but never any honest or poor man took a penny, but where he did a bad, unjust
master, who was on his treasures, which he made the welding and blood of his subjects had ridden
together, pressed or a felt and usurers, the insatiable, the last possessions of the little
ones and little ones devoured the people, because he has diligently eingesprochen and made their
boxes and bags a little lighter and relaxed. But this is especially him was that he kept of
such prey thief almost never for himself, but it has executed wear almost everything in which he
poor and needy and hungry old and abandoned Child has known. Since it is nocturnal and midnight,
when all eyes of the deepest Sleep was closed, sneaked into the houses and has the silver or gold
shares hingeschuettet on tables, beds and cradles, that people, when they awoke, amazement and
the hands clasped together and prayed. Because they could not believe that an invisible have
been the thief's hand is distributor of campaigns charity, but had to believe it's from above come
and a little angel from heaven had them carried into the house. And so in the cities and villages,
which visited the Fritz Foerster, many were talking at the same time of swashbuckling thieves
and campaigns charity of angels, as for God's kingdom and Satan's kingdom, and the Talks about
it here are off together on earth forever. But many other rogue tricks Fritz has perpetrated the loose,
the hatch was light as the wind everywhere in and out; and what would the doors and windows
when they had mouth to tell him not everything ! Know But I must not tell everything because it
is not posted here, and also Poss all the other tricks I could never auserzaehlen he at Christmas
and Carnival and played at weddings, dances and mummeries than not covered and yet invisible
guest added.

Fritz has an emergency but soon felt in the Rabenstein, the distress was severe and as a devil's
plague of illegal art attaches. Namely because the raven stone Galgenvoegeln eyes and gallows
is born, he has a secret and insurmountable impulse to gallows and the wheel is in a weather that drives
his vehicle and owner, that he thereby must be when it is done at such high bit. If, in the island
a high court and one on a gallows should be beheaded or hanged, it's
driving him down with vicious violence and how to Windesfluegeln he
had to be there and should he run three or four miles in two hours
that the breathless tongue hanging out of his mouth.

But that was far worse and horrible that he's birthdays and anniversaries of celebrate facing
poor sinner had to. On the anniversary of the execution, namely gathered the spirits of the directed
in order to their nightly dance of death around the high courts hold, and this dance they commit
horrible celebrate at midnight, and as must all the and dance along, which have the Ravenstone.
So had some love for even Fritz night where he would have gladly stayed somewhere else or asleep,
in the hail and snow, storm and thunder out into the wild and wide over nations, and fields
like a Cain to the gallows and High Court run away and dance along the eerie dance, he often
began to go out of breath almost; because his other dancers and Mittaenzerinnen understandably
jumped to the lightest of all Feet along. And the people him to travel to such a nightly ball
could well , And note that it was anything wrong had happened - because he saw eight, fourteen days
later still pale and sick from - he shook but all other comments and questions easily on, and
began to joke about it or any wind, and said, "Well what do dormice! you who streches every evening
at regular time on your soft pillow can, you probably rosy cheeks and big belly anschnarchen,
but with the Jaeger is no different order, which must be much a nightly Company: foxes, martens, otters
and other wildlife, gives you the warm furs, and begins spying on you not in the sunshine. One hits
as well as well-sometimes to something no good, but it also shakes a brave Jaeger again to learn
from, and the efficiency and secret Jaegerkuenste and the brave hunter stories to exist, to you
lacking the heart. "

Rotermund Fritz so had driven it many a sweet year, and probably fresh and funny lived and for dances
and feasts and fun and beautiful girl always money in his pocket; but he had not become rich because
he could not bear full pockets. He was previously satisfied with his green coat and was still
a Jaegermann remained, because talented but of non-historical something that should make the wild
to a tame Jaeger Edelmann, and that was this:

In war, at the time of King Karolus * in the city of Bergen were hanged two Jews, the they had
caught a horse thief. They had dangled there for a year at the gallows, as Rotermund Fritz-year celebration
out had to learn how to Hebrew on the gallows and the wheel is danced.

And since he has a really good pace learned to dance Davidic dance, as the Jewish spirit had
turned around in such a quick Asian momentum that he - what had happened to her before - sat
exhausted fallen asleep and only woke, as the dawn began to light the East already. Because,
as he jumped up startled, went it is found that the wind was the shabby coat-tails of one Galgenkrametvogels,
under whose spindly legs, he had fallen asleep, so hard against the left cheek was blowing, that
the blood after that jumped out.

The Fritz, as he felt the slap on and after that the tentative Hand saw blood, cried out half
schauderig, half laughing: "Why do you have an Mauschelchen! too damn hot buttons and people
probably want your revenge on me, which I in other Shops sometimes also to pay well-care visits
at midnight? "At the same time He looked for his coat, and saw no smallest sign of a button, and
wondered and he shuddered even more. He took flying in the wind therefore the tip so that it closer
investigated whether put some hidden in the folds of a button. But there was nothing. But he
felt something hard in the corners, and soon saw that those with a thousand threads back and
forth in sub-feed so durchnaeht were when they last until the last day should. He reached with
his now freshly Jaegerfaeusten and tore the whole coat-tails to Shreds apart, and what he saw?
A few sparkling gems fell before him on the earth. -------------------------- * In Sweden and in
the then Swedish German Baltic lands, this king Karolus (Charles XII) is equal to the Iskander
of the East and our Frederick Barbarossa on the Kyffhäuser few decades after his death, a mythical
Name become. All laengstvergangne ​​monstrous and mighty ranks among such names; if a hundred
or few thousand years backward or forward must be expected, which takes care of the the people, who
for the poetic and mythical a truly divine Era has, ie: measured by the ordinary masses none. --------------------------

He
took her in and she looked at his Rabenstein and the bright dawn, and found that these stones just
as pale against those of water were against the red fire. And jumped He rose in the air and
shouted: "Well, this is the first gallows dance, anything but horror and has brought abomination
", and he strolled from it.

But as he well after half an hour gallows and fear behind him and the sun are already in the
clear sky saw, as he took the stones out of his pocket and looked at it more closely, and soon knew
what they were worth. Because of his many and wide cruises He had seen many wonders and miraculous
sea, and was also where the beautiful gruenlockigen Mermaids singing so magically that the skipper
of the sailors, so as not to them jump into the deep, pour the ears with tar and must seal with
wax, and was also to the country come when the diamonds and rubies on the beach in the sand,
as in We had the pebbles, but pick up and allowed to take no account
of the horrible Dragons and griffins guarding them.

He was now happily at home, took his horse from the stable, saddled it, and said in Ade eight days,
and he trotted on to the old ferry, and from there we went to Hamburg
or Berlin, where he sold the precious diamonds Jews back to Jews with
big bags full of ducats, well over a few tons of gold, came home after
a few days.

Now Fritz had money in abundance, and came with the money he also refined and serious Thought,
quite new idea, as he had not had in his life. He went back and was a gentleman, and purchased from his
brother Boldevitz, where his father had lived and where he was born, and also bought several
other nice balance and goods, which because . Lying around Fritz Jaeger and then drove with
fours and sixes and with long strings, and had servants and JAEGER behind you are on the box
and runners with silver Staebe run before, and was called by Mr. Fritz Rotermund, as his father
was told in his days had.

And now he is also a beautiful noble lady as wife, and begat sons and daughters, and lived
and behaved like a gentleman. He remained as friendly gebaeurisch and with the people and
was so gentle and so kind to his people against the Poor, that all said in wonder: The wild
and reckless Fritz is a yes man and to become a Christian yet.

And that was not only vain appearance, but it was his sincere earnestness. When Fritz as big had
acquired property and became a gentleman was there really seemed to be a new spirit in have driven
him to a better spirit, speed, usually so rare and with the sudden Wealth used to come into
the house. He hated from now on his Rabe and his Police informed erna real thief tricks, also loved
his old tricks no longer wag, but wanted to really turn around and convert from the heart and
another man of God may be was therefore henceforth to other good Christians and church and altar,
and lived with Wife and children and with friends and neighbors and with all people so that
all love him and value and kept his youth and youthful pranks like forgot. As he is really Christian
and human being and sought to live, he was still a plaguing Worm to what he knew and his God
alone, and this was his bad worm Rabenstein. What has endured to this poor man and suffered,
it is impossible to describe.

Namely, he felt, and he again turned back to Christianity and the faith of his childhood was
that the Rabenstein Geheures was nothing but an evil diabolical trickery, and would have it at once
like throwing in the deepest sea or in the most hidden world buried or burned in the most violent
fire, that never a man's hand him wiederfaende and endowed with its hellish glory disaster.
But! But! How have you been, poor Rotermund Fritz? It is the Rabensteins much harder going,
when he wins. And Fritz the Ravenstone cast aside, as he devouring the lake, the consuming wanted
to provide fire, the more treacherous stone barely a second from him and flew him always returns
to the hand that had thrown him with all his might on its own, or in the bag, from which he was
taken. Now, Fritz, who now really is not the merry and hot Merry Fritz could try it by and by
with all the elements, such as whether one were to assume the stone rather than the other, but
the terrible stone, the captive and remained indestructible.

He did it out of this unfortunate specimen at the most zealous and incessant attempts with the very best
element, with devotion and prayer, and how much He has since struggled, and often how much
he knows about the silent midnight in his room and in the lonely Located in the forest and sacred
places on the knees and to his God and Saviour mercy has prayed that he would take him from evil, that
God alone knows. Always nor did he keep up the bloody assizes and the mean real erna Lichen Galgentaenze
yet have to dance along, and now with a terrific horror and shudder, because Christ knew what
it was. He has probably lived for twenty years in his new position to the outside, the friendly,
Christian man, the mild and merciful Lord, the inwardly tormented and tortured. He has not dropped
and has not become tired in humility and prayer, and this has all worn with bowed hearts as
a poor sinner, whom God for his reckless Arrogance and insolence of its pagan and punish by what
it is now so fierce pain become, would save you. Finally the day of salvation and pardon come,
but in a horrible way.

Fritz was a night to a boom driven hard to Putbus where on the way in which one goes to Kasnevitz,
about half an hour from the castle, on a desolate Heidehuegel nor Today, the debris of a gallows stand.
There he found upon his arrival that horrible night rabble fly around even in the horrible dance,
and also rode with him from the other side other dancers as a man who was clothed with living
flesh as he and conversant sat on horseback, and a bare sword in his right hand, swung as he
challenged anyone. And certainly, he challenged, because the Fritz felt at the sight of the hottest
Grimm flare up in himself, and had to draw his sword and run against him, as he Fritzen run up on foot,
saw jumped down from his steed. Fritz instantly recognized him as the Erzboesewicht disreputable
old, who lived at the extreme end of the island and Jasmund the people are many horrible and
mordliche stories. His name was Zuhmen. The old rogue appeared gray, but on the dance floor, because
it a few months ago a Rabenstein had found. Now he was second on the island, the one Rabenstein
owned and had communicated this erna real Lichen funeral also. For this is also a driving
anger, and an unhappy fate of the terrible stone, that if two Who
meet the Rabenstein, they must keep a life-and-death struggle.

And so, since the two met each other in a blind rage and fought the grisly battle, while the lighter army
his funny dance they danced and whirled around, and as the blows their blades doubled, so doubled
in their hearts and the anger.
 Now that this is meant of Christ, is confirmed by his own lips; for in the
days of his flesh he takes this book in his hand, when he was in the synagogue at Nazareth,
and read this very place unto the people; and then tells them that that very day that Scripture
was fulfilled in their ears (Luke 6:16-18).

But see, these are the souls whose welfare is contrived in the heavens. God consulted their
salvation, their deliverance, their health, before his Son came down from thence. Doth not
therefore this demonstrate, that a broken-hearted man, that a man of a contrite spirit, is
of great esteem with God. I have often wondered at David that he should give Joab and the men
of war a charge, that they take heed that they carry it tenderly to that young rebel Absalom
his son (2 Sam 18:5). But that God, the high God, the God against whom we have sinned, should,
so soon as he has smitten, give his Son a command, a charge, a commission to take care of,
to bind up and heal the broken in heart; this is that which can never be sufficiently admired
or wondered at by men or angels.

And as this was his commission, so he acted; as is evidently set forth by the parable of the
man who fell among thieves. He went to him, poured into his wounds wine and oil; he bound him
up, took him, set him upon his own beast, had him to an inn, gave the host a charge to look
well to him, with money in hand, and a promise at his return to recompence him in what farther
he should be expensive while he was under his care (Luke 10:30-35). Behold, therefore, the
care of God which he has for the broken in heart; he has given a charge to Christ his Son,
to look well to them, and to bind up and heal their wounds. Behold also the faithfulness of
Christ, who doth not hide, but read this commission as soon as he entereth upon his ministry,
and also falls into the practical part thereof.

And behold again into whose care a broken heart and a contrite spirit hath put this poor creature;
he is under the care of God, the care and cure of Christ. If a man was sure that his disease
had put him under the special care of the king and the queen, yet could he not be sure of life,
he might die under their sovereign hands. Ay, but here is a man in the favour of God, and under
the hand of Christ to be healed; under whose hand none yet ever died for want of skill and
power in him to save their life; wherefore this man must live; Christ has in commission not
only to bind up his wounds, but to heal him. This, I say, he has in the commission, the broken-hearted
are put into his hand, and he has said himself he will heal him. And this is a fifth demonstration.

Sixth. As God prefers such a heart, and so esteems the man that has it; as he desires his company,
has provided for him his cordials, and given a charge to Christ to heal him, so he has promised
in conclusion to save him. 'He saveth such as be of a contrite spirit,' or, as the margin has
it, that be 'contrite of spirit' (Psa 34:18).

And this is the conclusion of all; for to save a man is the end of all special mercy. 'He saveth
such as be of a contrite spirit.' To save, is to forgive; for without forgiveness of sins we
cannot be saved. To save, is to preserve one in this miserable world, and to deliver one from
all those devils, temptations, snares, and destructions that would, were we not kept, were
we not preserved of God, destroy us body and soul for ever. To save, is to bring a man body
and soul to glory, and to give him an eternal mansion house in heaven, that he may dwell in
the presence of this good God, and the Lord Jesus, and to sing to them the songs of his redemption
for ever and ever. This it is to be saved; nor can any thing less than this complete the salvation
of the sinner. Now, this is to be the lot of him that is of a broken heart, and the end that
God will make with him that is of a contrite spirit. 'He saveth such as be contrite of spirit.'
He saveth such! This is excellent!

But, do the broken in spirit believe this? Can they imagine that this is to be the end that
God has designed them to, and that he intended to make with them in the day in which he began
to break their hearts? No, no; they, alas! think quite the contrary. They are afraid that this
is but the beginning of death, and a token that they shall never see the face of God with comfort,
either in this world or that which is to come. Hence they cry, 'Cast me not away from thy presence';
or, Now I am 'free among the dead whom God remembers no more' (Psa 51:11, 88:4,5). For indeed
there goes to the breaking of the heart a visible appearance of the wrath of God, and a home
charge from heaven of the guilt of sin to the conscience. This to reason is very dreadful;
for it cuts the soul down to the ground; 'for a wounded spirit who [none] can bear?' (Prov 18:14).

It seems also now to this man, that this is but the beginning of hell; but as it were the first
step down to the pit; when, indeed, all these are but the beginnings of love, and but that
which makes way for life. The Lord kills before he makes alive; he wounds before his hands
make whole. Yea, he does the one in order to, or because he would do the other; he wounds,
because his purpose is to heal; 'he maketh sore, and bindeth up; he woundeth, and his hands
make whole' (Deut 32:39; 1 Sam 2:6; Job 5:18). His design, I say, is the salvation of the soul.
He scourgeth, he breaketh the heart of every son whom he receiveth, and woe be to him whose
heart God breaketh not. 'A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.' For
this say I, First. This is evident; for that it is better than sacrifices, than all sacrifice.
Second. The man that has it is of more esteem with God than heaven or earth. Third. God coveteth
such a man for his intimate and house companion. Fourth. He reserveth for them his cordials
and spiritual comforts. Fifth. He has given his Son a Charge, a commandment to take care that
the broken-hearted be healed; and he is resolved to heal them. Sixth. And concluded, that the
broken-hearted, and they that are of a contrite spirit, shall be saved, that is, possessed
of the heavens.

[III. WHAT A BROKEN HEART, AND WHAT A CONTRITE SPIRIT IS.]

I come now in order to show you what a broken heart and what a contrite spirit is. This must
be done, because in the discovery of this lies both the comfort of them that have it, and the
conviction of them that have it not. Now, that I may do this the better, I must propound and
speak to these four things. FIRST. I must show you what an one that heart is that is not broken,
that is not contrite. SECOND. I must show you how, or with what the heart is broken and made
contrite. THIRD. Show you how, and what it is, when broken and made contrite. And, FOURTH.
I shall, last of all, give you some signs of a broken and contrite heart.

FIRST. For the first of these, to wit, What an one that heart is, that is not a broken, that
is not a contrite heart.

First. The heart, before it is broken, is hard and stubborn, and obstinate against God, and
the salvation of the soul (Zech 7:12; Deut 2:30, 9:27).

Second. It is a heart full of evil imaginations and darkness (Gen 18:12; Rom 1:21).

Third. It is a heart deceitful and subject to be deceived, especially about the things of an
eternal concernment (Isa 44:20; Deut 11:16).

Fourth. It is a heart that rather gathereth iniquity and vanity to itself than anything that
is good for the soul (Psa 41:6, 94:11).

Fifth. It is an unbelieving heart, and one that will turn away from God to sin (Heb 3:12; Deut
17:17).

Sixth. It is a heart not prepared for God, being uncircumcised, nor for the reception of his
holy word (2 Chron 12:14; Psa 78:8; Acts 7:51).

Seventh. It is a heart not single, but double; it will pretend to serve God, but will withal
lean to the devil and sin (Psa 12:2; Eze 33:31).

Eighth. It is a heart proud and stout: it loves not to be controlled, though the controller
be God himself (Psa 101:5; Prov 16:5; Mal 3:13).

Ninth. It is a heart that will give place to Satan, but will resist the Holy Ghost (Acts 5:3,
7:51).

Tenth. In a word, 'It is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked'; so wicked that
none can know it (Jer 17:9).

That the heart before it is broken is such, and worse than I have described it to be, is sufficiently
seen by the whole course of the world. Where is the man whose heart has not been broken, and
whose spirit is not contrite, that according to the Word of God deals honestly with his own
soul? It is one character of a right heart, that it is sound in God's statutes, and honest
(Psa 119:18; Luke 8:15). Now, an honest heart will not put off itself, nor be put off with
that which will not go for current money with the merchant; I mean, with that which will not
go for saving grace at the day of judgment. But alas! alas! but few men, how honest soever
they are to others, have honesty towards themselves; though he is the worst of deceivers who
deceiveth his own soul, as James has it, about the things of his own soul (1:22,26). But,

SECOND. I now come to show you with what and how the heart is broken, and the spirit made contrite.

[First. With what the heart is broken, and the spirit made contrite.]

The instrument with which the heart is broken, and with which the spirit is made contrite,
is the Word. 'Is not my word like as a fire, saith the Lord; and like a hammer, that breaketh
the rock in pieces?' (Jer 23:29). The rock, in this text, is the heart, which in another place
is compared to an adamant, which adamant is harder than flint (Zech 7:11,12; Eze 3:9). This
rock, this adamant, this stony heart, is broken and made contrite by the Word. But it only
is so, when the Word is as a fire, and as a hammer to break and melt it. And then, and then
only, it is as a fire, and a hammer to the heart to break it, when it is managed by the arm
of God. No man can break the heart with the Word; no angel can break the heart with the Word;
that is, if God forbears to second it by mighty power from heaven. This made Balaam go without
a heart rightly broken, and truly contrite, though he was rebuked by an angel; and the Pharisees
die in their sins, though rebuked for them, and admonished to turn from them, by the Saviour
of the world. Wherefore, though the Word is the instrument with which the heart is broken,
yet it is not broken with the Word, till that Word is managed by the might and power of God.

This made the prophet Isaiah, after long preaching, cry out, that he had laboured for nought,
and in vain; and this made him cry to God, 'to rend the heavens and come down,' that the mountains,
or rocky hills, or hearts, might be broken, and melt at his presence (Isa 44:4, 64:1,2). For
he found by experience, that as to this no effectual work could be done, unless the Lord put
to his hand. This also is often intimated in the Scriptures, where it saith, when the preachers
preached effectually to the breaking of men's hearts, 'the Lord wrought with them;[2] the hand
of the Lord was with them,' and the like (Mark 16:20; Acts 11:21).

Now when the hand of the Lord is with the Word, then it is mighty: it is 'mighty through God
to the pulling down of strong holds' (2 Cor 10:4). It is sharp, then, as a sword in the soul
and spirit; it sticks like an arrow in the hearts of sinners, to the causing of the people
to fall at his foot for mercy (Heb 4:12). Then it is, as was said afore, as a fire and as a
hammer to break this rock in pieces (Psa 110:3). And hence the Word is made mention of under
a double consideration. 1. As it stands by itself. 2. As attended with power from heaven.

1. As it stands by itself, and is not seconded with saving operation from heaven, it is called
the Word only, the Word barely, or as if it was only the word of men (1 Thess 1:5-7; 1 Cor
4:19,20; 1 Thess 2:13). Because, then, it is only as managed by men, who are not able to make
it accomplish that work. The Word of God, when in a man's hand only, is like the father's sword
in the hand of the sucking child; which sword, though never so well pointed, and though never
so sharp on the edges, is not now able to conquer a foe, and to make an enemy fall and cry
out for mercy, because it is but in the hand of the child. But now, let the same sword be put
into the hand of a skilful father--and God is both skilful and able to manage his Word--and
then the sinner, and then the proud helpers too, are both made to stoop, and submit themselves;
wherefore, I say, though the Word be the instrument, yet of itself doth do no saving good to
the soul; the heart is not broken, nor the spirit made contrite thereby; it only worketh death,
and leaveth men in the chains of their sins, still faster bound over to eternal condemnation
(2 Cor 2:15,16).

2. But when seconded by mighty power, then the same Word is as the roaring of a lion, as the
piercing of a sword, as a burning fire in the bones, as thunder and as a hammer that dashes
all to pieces (Jer 25:30; Amos 1:2, 3:8; Acts 2:37; Jer 20:9; Psa 29:3-9). Wherefore, from
hence it is to be concluded, that whoever has heard the Word preached, and has not heard the
voice of the living God therein, has not as yet had their hearts broken, nor their spirits
made contrite for their sins.

[Second. How the heart is broken, and the spirit made contrite.]

And this leads me to the second thing, to wit, To show how the heart is broken and the spirit
made contrite by the Word, and verily it is when the Word comes home with power. But yet this
is but general; wherefore, more particularly,

1. Then the Word works effectually to this purpose, when it findeth out the sinner and his
sin, and shall convince him that it has found him out. Thus it was with our first father; when
he had sinned, he sought to hide himself from God; he gets among the trees of the garden, and
there he shrouds himself; but yet, not thinking himself secure, he covers himself with fig-leaves;
and now he lieth quiet. Now God shall not find me, thinks he, nor know what I have done. But
lo! by and by, he 'hears the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden.' And now, Adam, what
do you mean to do? Why, as yet, he skulketh, and hides his head, and seeks yet to lie undiscovered;
but behold, the voice cries out, ADAM! and now he begins to tremble. 'Adam, where art thou?'
says God; and now Adam is made to answer (Gen 3:7-11). But the voice of the Lord God doth not
leave him here: no, it now begins to search, and to inquire after his doings, and to unravel
what he had wrapt together and covered, until it made him bare and naked in his own sight before
the face of God. Thus, therefore, doth the Word, when managed by the arm of God. It findeth
out, it singleth out the sinner; the sinner finds it so; it finds out the sins of the sinner;
it unravels his whole life, it strips him and lays him naked in his own sight before the face
of God; neither can the sinner nor his wickedness be longer hid and covered; and now begins
the sinner to see what he never saw before.

2. Another instance for this is David, the man of our text. He sins, he sins grossly, he sins
and hides it; yea, and seeks to hide it from the face of God and man. Well, Nathan is sent
to preach a preaching to him, and that in common, and that in special: in common, by a parable;
in special, by a particular application of it to him. While Nathan only preached in common,
or in general, David was fish-whole,[3] and stood as right in his own eyes as if he had been
as innocent and as harmless as any man alive. But God had a love for David; and therefore commands
his servant Nathan to go home, not only to David's ears, but to David's conscience. Well, David
now must fall. Says Nathan, 'Thou art the man'; says David, 'I have sinned,' and then his heart
was broken, and his spirit made contrite; as this psalm and our text doth show (2 Sam 12:1-13).

3. A third instance is that of Saul; he had heard many a sermon, and was become a great professor,
yea, he was more zealous than were many of his equals; but his heart was never broken, nor
his spirit ever made contrite, till he heard one preach from heaven, till he heard God, in
the Word of God, making inquiry after his sins: 'Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?' says
Jesus; and then he can stand no longer: for then his heart brake, then he falls to the ground,
then he trembles, then he cries out, 'Who art thou, Lord?' and, 'Lord, what wilt thou have
me to do?' (Acts 9). Only I must join here a caution, for every operation of the Word upon
the conscience is not saving; nor doth all conviction end in the saving conversion of the sinner.
It is then only such an operation of the Word that is intended, namely, that shows the sinner
not only the evil of his ways, but brings the heart unfeignedly over to God by Christ. And
this brings me to the third thing.

THIRD. I am therefore come to show you how and what the heart is when broken and made contrite.
And this I must do, by opening unto you the two chief expressions in the text. First. What
is meant by this word broken. Second. What is meant by this word contrite.

First. For this word broken, Tindal renders it a troubled heart;[4] but I think there is more
in it. And why is the breaking of the heart compared to the breaking of the bones? but because
as when the bones are broken, the outward man is disabled as to what it was wont to do; so
when the spirit is broken, the inward man is disabled as to what vanity and folly it before
delighted in; hence, feebleness is joined with this brokenness of heart. 'I am feeble,' saith
he, 'and sore broken' (Psa 38:8). I have lost my strength and former vigour, as to vain and
sinful courses.

This, then, it is to have the heart broken; namely, to have it lamed, disabled, and taken off
by sense of God's wrath due to sin, from that course of life it formerly was conversant in;
and to show that this work is no fancy, nor done but with great trouble to the soul, it is
compared to the putting the bones out of joint, the breaking of the bones, the burning of the
bones with fire, or as the taking the natural moisture from the bones, the vexing of the bones,
&c. (Psa 23:14; Jer 20:9; Lam 1:13; Psa 6:2; Prov 17:22). All which are expressions adorned
with such similitudes, as do undeniably declare that to sense and feeling a broken heart is
a grievous thing.

Second. What is meant by the word contrite. A contrite spirit is a penitent one; one sorely
grieved, and deeply sorrowful, for the sins it has committed against God, and to the damage
of the soul; and so it is to be taken in all those places where a contrite spirit is made mention
of; as in Psalm 34:18; Isaiah 57:15, 66:2.

As a man that has by his folly procured a broken leg or arm, is heartily sorry that ever he
was so foolish as to be engaged in such foolish ways of idleness and vanity; so he whose heart
is broken with a sense of God's wrath due to his sin, hath deep sorrow in his soul, and is
greatly repentant that ever he should be such a fool, as by rebellious doings to bring himself
and his soul to so much sharp affliction. Hence, while others are sporting themselves in vanity,
such a one doth call his sin his greatest folly. 'My wounds stink, and are corrupt,' saith
David, 'because of my foolishness.' And again, 'O God, thou knowest my foolishness, and my
sins are not hid from thee' (Psa 38:5, 69:5).

Men, whatever they say with their lips, cannot conclude, if yet their hearts want breaking,
that sin is a foolish thing. Hence it says, 'The foolishness of fools is folly' (Prov 14:24).
That is, the foolishness of some men, is that they take pleasure in their sins; for their sins
are their foolishness, and the folly of their soul lies in their countenancing of this foolishness.
But the man whose heart is broken, he is none of these, he cannot be one of these, no more
than he that has his bones broken can rejoice that he is desired to play a match at football.
Hence, to hear others talk foolishly, is to the grief of those whom God has wounded: or, as
it is in another place, their words are 'like the piercings of a sword' (Psa 69:26; Prov 12:18).
This, therefore, I take to be the meaning of these two words, a broken and a contrite spirit.

FOURTH. Lastly, As to this, I now come more particularly to give you some signs of a broken
heart, of a broken and a contrite spirit.

First. A broken-hearted man, such as is intended in the text, is a sensible man; he is brought
to the exercise of all the senses of his soul. All others are dead, senseless, and without
true feeling of what the broken-hearted man is sensible of.

1. He sees himself to be what others are ignorant of; that is, he sees himself to be not only
a sinful man, but a man by nature in the gall and bond of sin. In the gall of sin: it is Peter's
expression to Simon, and it is a saying common to all men: for every man in a state of nature
is in the gall of sin; he was shapen in it, conceived in it; it has also possession of, and
by that possession infected the whole of his soul and body (Psa 51:5; Acts 8:23). This he sees,
this he understands; every professor sees not this, because the blessing of a broken heart
is not bestowed on every one. David says, 'There is no soundness in my flesh'; and Solomon
suggest that a plague or running sore is in the very heart. But every one perceives not this
(Psa 38:3; 1 Kings 8:38). He saith again, that his 'wounds stank, and were corrupted': that
his 'sore ran, and ceased not' (Psa 38:5, 77:2). But these things the brutish man, the man
whose heart was never broken, has no understanding of. But the broken-hearted, the man that
has a broken spirit, he sees, as the prophet has it, he sees his sickness, he sees his wound:
'When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound'; he sees it to his grief, he sees
it to his sorrow (Hosea 5:13).

2. He feels what others have no sense of; he feels the arrows of the Almighty, and that they
stick fast in him (Psa 38:2). He feels how sore and sick, by the smiting of God's hammer upon
his heart to break it, his poor soul is made. He feels a burden intolerably lying upon his
spirit (Hosea 5:13). 'Mine iniquities,' saith he, 'are gone over mine head; as a heavy burden
they are too heavy for me' (Psa 38:4). He feels also the heavy hand of God upon his soul, a
thing unknown to carnal men. He feels pain, being wounded, even such pain as others cannot
understand, because they are not broken. 'My heart,' saith David, 'is sore pained within me.'
Why so? Why! 'The terrors of death are fallen upon me' (Psa 55:4). The terrors of death cause
pain, yea, pain of the highest nature; hence that which is here called pains, is in another
place called pangs (Isa 21:3).

You know broken bones occasion pain, strong pain, yea, pain that will make a man or woman groan
'with the groanings of a deadly wounded man' (Eze 30:24). Soul pain is the sorest pain, in
comparison to which the pain of the body is a very tolerable thing (Prov 18:14). Now here is
soul pain, here is heart pain; here we are discoursing of a wounded, of a broken spirit; wherefore
this is pain to be felt to the sinking of the whole man, neither can any support this but God.
Here is death in this pain, death for ever, without God's special mercy. This pain will bring
the soul to, and this the broken-hearted man doth feel. Ay, I'll warrant thee, poor man, thou
foundest trouble and sorrow indeed; for the pains of hell and sorrows of death are pains and
sorrow the most intolerable. But this the man is acquainted with that has his heart broken.[5]

3. As he sees and feels, so he hears that which augments his woe and sorrow. You know, if a
man has his bones broken, he does not only see and feel, but oft-times also hears what increases
his grief; as, that his wounds are incurable; that his bone is not rightly set; that there
is danger of a gangrene; that he may be lost for want of looking to. These are the voices,
the sayings, that haunt the house of one that has his bones broken. And a broken-hearted man
knows what I mean by this; he hears that which makes his lips quiver, and at the noise of which
he seems to feel rottenness enter into his bones; he trembleth in himself, and wishes that
he may hear joy and gladness, that the bones, the heart, and spirit, which God has broken,
may rejoice (Habb 3:16; Psa 51:8). He thinks he hears God say, the devil say, his conscience
say, and all good men to whisper among themselves, saying, there is no help for him from God.
Job heard this, David heard this, Heman heard this; and this is the common sound in the ears
of the broken-hearted.

4. The broken-hearted smell what others cannot scent. Alas! sin never smelled so to any man
alive as it smells to the broken-hearted. You know wounds will stink: but [there is] no stink
like that of sin to the broken-hearted man. His own sins stink, and so doth the sins of all
the world to him. Sin is like carrion; it is of a stinking nature; yea, it has the worst of
smells; however, some men like it (Psa 38:5). But none are offended with the scent thereof
but God and the broken-hearted sinner. 'My wounds stink, and are corrupt,' saith he, both in
God's nostrils and mine own. But, alas! who smells the stink of sin? None of the carnal world;
they, like carrion-crows, seek it, love it, and eat it as the child eats bread. 'They eat up
the sin of my people,' saith God, 'and they set their heart on their iniquity' (Hosea 4:8).
This, I say, they do, because they do not smell the nauseous scent of sin. You know, that what
is nauseous to the smell cannot be palatable to the taste. The broken-hearted man doth find
that sin is nauseous, and therefore cries out it stinketh. They also think at times the smell
of fire, of fire and brimstone, is upon them, they are so sensible of the wages due to sin.

5. The broken-hearted is also a tasting man. Wounds, if sore, and full of pains, of great pains,
do sometimes alter the taste of a man; they make him think his meat, his drink, yea, that cordials
have a bitter taste in them. How many times doth the poor people of God, that are the only
men that know what a broken-heart doth mean, cry out that gravel, wormwood, gall, and vinegar,
was made their meat (Lam 3:15,16,19). This gravel, gall, and wormwood, is the true temporal
taste of sin; and God, to make them loathe it for ever, doth feed them with it till their hearts
both ache and break therewith. Wickedness is pleasant of taste to the world; hence it is said
they feed on ashes, they feed on the wind (Isa 44:20; Hosea 12:1). Lusts, or any thing that
is vile and refuse, the carnal world think relishes well; as is set out most notably in the
parable of the prodigal son. 'He would fain have filled his belly,' saith our Lord, 'with the
husks that the swine did eat' (Luke 15:16). But the broken-hearted man has a relish that is
true as to these things, though, by reason of the anguish of his soul, it abhors all manner
of dainty meat (Job 33:19,20; Psa 107:17-19). Thus I have showed you one sign of a broken-hearted
man; he is a sensible man, he has all the senses of his soul awakened, he can see, hear, feel,
taste, smell, and that as none but himself can do. I come now to another sign of a broken and
contrite man.

Second. And that is, he is a very sorrowful man. This, as the other, is natural; it is natural
to one that is in pain, and that has his bones broken, to be a grieved and sorrowful man. He
is none of the jolly ones of the times; nor can he, for his bones, his heart, his heart is broken.

1. He is sorry for that he feels and finds in himself a pravity of nature; I told you before
he is sensible of it, he sees it, he feels it; and here I say he is sorry for it. It is this
that makes him call himself a wretched man; it is this that makes him loathe and abhor himself;
it is this that makes him blush, blush before God and be ashamed (Rom 7:24; Job 42:5,6; Eze
36:31). He finds by nature no form nor comeliness in himself, but the more he looks in the
glass of the Word, the more unhandsome, the more deformed he perceiveth sin has made him. Every
body sees not this, therefore every body is not sorry for it; but the broken in heart sees
that he is by sin corrupted, marred, full of lewdness and naughtiness; he sees that in him,
that is, in his flesh, dwells no good thing; and this makes him sorry, yea, it makes him sorry
at heart. A man that has his bones broken finds he is spoiled, marred, disabled from doing
as he would and should, at which he is grieved and made sorry.

Many are sorry for actual transgressions, because they do oft bring them to shame before men;
but few are sorry for the defects that sin has made in nature, because they see not those defects
themselves. A man cannot be sorry for the sinful defects of nature, till he sees they have
rendered him contemptible to God; nor is it any thing but a sight of God that can make him
truly see what he is, and so be heartily sorry for being so. Now 'mine eye seeth thee,' saith
Job, now 'I abhor myself.' 'Woe is me, for I am undone,' saith the prophet, 'for mine eyes
have seen the King the Lord.' And it was this that made Daniel say his 'comeliness was turned
in him into corruption'; for he had now the vision of the Holy One (Job 42:6; Isa 6:1-5; Dan
10:8). Visions of God break the heart, because, by the sight the soul then has of his perfections,
it sees its own infinite and unspeakable disproportion, because of the vileness of its nature.

Suppose a company of ugly, uncomely, deformed persons dwelt together in one house; and suppose
that they never yet saw any man or woman more than themselves, or that were arrayed with the
splendours and perfections of nature; these would not be capable of comparing themselves with
any but themselves, and consequently would not be affected and made sorry for their uncomely
natural defections. But now bring them out of their cells and holes of darkness, where they
have been shut up by themselves, and let them take a view of the splendour and perfections
of beauty that are in others, and then, if at all, they will be sorry and dejected at the view
of their own defects. This is the case; men by sin are marred, spoiled, corrupted, depraved,
but they may dwell by themselves in the dark; they see neither God, nor angels, nor saints,
in their excellent nature and beauty: and therefore they are apt to count their own uncomely
parts their ornaments and their glory. But now let such, as I said, see God, see saints, or
the ornaments of the Holy Ghost, and themselves as they are without them, and then they cannot
but must be affected with and sorry for their own deformity. When the Lord Christ put forth
but little of his excellency before his servant Peter's face, it raised up the depravity of
Peter's nature before him to his great confusion and shame; and made him cry out to him in
the midst of all his fellows, 'Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord' (Luke 5:4-8).

This therefore is the cause of a broken heart, even a sight of divine excellencies, and a sense
that I am a poor, depraved, spoiled defiled wretch; and this sight having broken the heart,
begets sorrow in the broken-hearted.

2. The broken-hearted is a sorrowful man; for that he finds his depravity of nature strong
in him, to the putting forth itself to oppose and overthrow what his changed mind doth prompt
him to; 'When I would do good,' saith Paul, 'evil is present with me' (Rom 7:21). Evil is present
to oppose, to resist, and make head against the desires of my soul. The man that has his bones
broken, may have yet a mind to be industriously occupied in a lawful and honest calling; but
he finds, by experience, that an infirmity attends his present condition that strongly resists
his good endeavours; and at this he shakes his head, makes complaints, and with sorrow of heart
he sighs and says, I 'cannot do the thing that I would' (Rom 7:15; Gal 5:17). I am weak, I
am feeble; I am not only depraved, but by that depravity deprived of ability to put good motions,[6]
good intentions and desires into execution, to completeness; O says he, I am ready to halt,
my sorrow is continually before me!

You must know that the broken-hearted loves God, loves his soul, loves good, and hates evil.
Now, for such an one to find in himself an opposition and continual contradiction to this holy
passion, it must needs cause sorrow, godly sorrow, as the apostle Paul calls it. For such are
made sorrow after a godly sort. To be sorry for that thy nature is with sin depraved, and that
through this depravity thou art deprived of ability to do what the Word and thy holy mind doth
prompt thee to, is to be sorry after a godly sort. For this sorrow worketh that in thee of
which thou wilt never have cause to repent; no, not to eternity (2 Cor 7:9-11).

3. The broken-hearted man is sorry for those breaches that, by reason of the depravity of his
nature, are made in his life and conversation. And this was the case of the man in our text.
The vileness of his nature had broken out to the defiling of his life, and to the making of
him, at this time, base in conversation. This, this was it, that all to[7] brake his heart.
He saw in this he had dishonoured God, and that cut him, 'Against thee, thee only, have I sinned,
and done this evil in thy sight' (Psa 51:4). He saw in this he had caused the enemies of God
to open their mouths and blaspheme; and this cut him to the heart. This made him cry, I have
sinned against thee, Lord. This made him say, 'I will declare mine iniquity, I will be sorry
for my sin' (Psa 38:18).

When a man is designed to do a matter, when his heart is set upon it, and the broken-hearted
doth design to glorify God, an obstruction to that design, the spoiling of this work, makes
him sorrowful. Hannah coveted children, but could not have them, and this made her 'a woman
of a sorrowful spirit' (1 Sam 1:15). A broken-hearted man would be well inwardly, and do that
which is well outwardly; but he feels, he finds, he sees he is prevented, prevented at least
in part. This makes him sorrowful; in this he groans, groans earnestly, being burdened with
his imperfections (2 Cor 5:1-3). You know one with broken bones has imperfections many, and
is more sensible of them, too, as was said afore, than any other man; and this makes him sorrowful,
yea, and makes him conclude that he shall go softly all his days in the bitterness of his soul
(Isa 38:15).

Third. The man with a broken heart is a very humble man; or, true humility is a sign of a broken
heart. Hence, brokenness of heart, contrition of spirit, and humbleness of mind, are put together.

To follow our similitude. Suppose a man, while in bodily health, stout and strong, and one
that fears and cares for no man; yet let this man have but a leg or an arm broken, and his
courage is quelled; he is now so far off from hectoring of it with a man, that he is afraid
of every little child that doth but offer to touch him. Now he will court the most feeble that
has ought to do with him, to use him and handle him gently. Now he is become a child in courage,
a child in fear, and humbleth himself as a little child.

Why, thus it is with that man that is of a broken and contrite spirit. Time was, indeed, he
could hector, even hector it with God himself, saying, 'What is the Almighty, that we should
serve him?' or what profit shall I have if I keep his commandments? (Job 21:15; Mal 3:13,14).
Ay! But now his heart is broken; God has wrestled with him, and given him a fall, to the breaking
of his bones, his heart; and now he crouches, now he cringes, now he begs of God that he will
not only do him good, but do it with tender hands.

He stands, as he sees, not only in need of mercy, but of the tenderest mercies. God has several
sorts of mercies, some more rough, some more tender. God can save a man, and yet have him a
dreadful way to heaven! This the broken-hearted sees, and this the broken-hearted dreads, and
therefore pleads for the tenderest sort of mercies; and here we read of his gentle dealing,
and that he is very pitiful, and that he deals tenderly with his. But the reason of such expressions
no man knows but he that is broken-hearted; he has his sores, his running sores, his stinking
sores; wherefore he is pained, and therefore covets to be handled tenderly. Thus God has broken
the pride of his spirit, and humbled the loftiness of man. And his humility yet appears,

1. In his thankfulness for natural life. He reckoneth at night, when he goes to bed, that like
as a lion, so God will tear him to pieces before the morning light (Isa 38:13). There is no
judgment that has fallen upon others, but he counts of right he should be swallowed up by it.
But perceiving a day added to his life, and that he in the morning is still on this side hell,
he cannot choose but take notice of it, and acknowledge it as a special favour, saying, God
be thanked for holding my soul in life till now, and for keeping my life back from the destroyer
(Job 33:22; Psa 56:13, 86:13).

Man, before his heart is broken, counts time his own, and therefore he spends it lavishly upon
every idle thing. His soul is far from fear, because the rod of God is not upon him; but when
he sees himself under the wounding hand of God, or when God, like a lion, is breaking all his
bones, then he humbleth himself before him, and falleth at his foot. Now he has learned to
count every moment a mercy, and every small morsel a mercy.

2. Now also the least hopes of mercy for his soul, O how precious is it! He that was wont to
make orts[8] of the gospel, and that valued promises but as stubble, and the words of God but
as rotten wood; now, with what an eye doth he look on the promise? Yea, he counted a peradventure
of mercy more rich, more worth, than the whole world. Now, as we say, he is glad to leap at
a crust; now, to be a dog in God's house is counted better by him than to 'dwell in the tents
of the wicked' (Matt 15:16,27; Luke 15:17-19).

3. Now he that was wont to look scornfully upon the people of God, yea, that used to scorn
to show them a gentle cast of his countenance; now he admires and bows before them, and is
ready to lick the dust of their feet, and would count it his greatest, the highest honour,
to be as one of the least of them. 'Make me as one of thy hired servants,' says he (Luke 15:19).

4. Now he is, in his own eyes, the greatest fool in nature; for that he sees he has been so
mistaken in his ways, and has not yet but little, if any true knowledge of God. Every one now,
says he, have more knowledge of God than I; every one serves him better than I (Psa 73:21,22;
Prov 30:2,3).

5. Now may he be but one, though the least in the kingdom of heaven! Now may he be but one,
though the least in the church on earth! Now may he be but loved, though the least beloved
of saints! Trine had
otherwise always the most efficient and most beautiful people had, but who could now not stand
her house, she moved away, and they could last no more than hack and Mack not get into their
service, and the long remained, and almost every month they had fresh people. All the world
now believed once, Trine was a witch, and no one wanted her have to do. Also, it was over with
the old hospitality and cheerfulness of the house and with the feasts and dances, because no
one wanted to come, and Trine had with her cat Mies Martinich sit alone and eat alone sausages
and roasting geese.

But alas, you poor Trine Pipers that you were otherwise have been so happy and cheerful and happy all
had pleased, as you went to your old days? Not only no journeymen and Gesellinnen and neighbors
and neighbors came over to rejoice in the blessings that God had given you, and to amuse with you,
but passed in a few years, that of which you had can amuse. People kopfschuettelten and whispered
while the cat was the one who so far is the hidden charms and informants have been and barns, Kornboeden,
Keller, Pantries, milk buckets and Butterfaesser and money cats and Sparbuechsen filled, but
Well this Wundertaeter and Warlock was there, why did they not still prosperous than before? Why
was rather Trines economy back from day to day more? Poor Trine had servants and maids, as hardly
any beggars pitcher houses would have willingly, right what we call Plug crutches and oven,
and their otherwise smooth horses lost weight and croaked of snot and worm, and their pigs and
cows had lice and gave no more milk, and their sheep and geese were Drehkoepfe, as they had studied
science secret, and their chickens and Ducks laid no eggs and no longer bred, her field was thistles
and thorns for grain and wheat. In short, Trine came in two years in bitter poverty: horses
were gone, cows were gone extinct pigs, sheep slaughtered, eaten by pigeons and chickens Marder,
the dog on a chain hunger - no cock crow on your door, not a beggar sighed over his prayer before.
And Trina was sitting alone and leave with yellow, wrinkled and wrinkled cheeks and tears
of sorrow and watery eyes and snow-white hair lose weight in the freezing corner of her empty
room and held her and burned in the ashes Cat on the lap and cried miserably over the meager
scraps that one of her distant threw, for neither did she like to come close.

Thus, they found one morning dead sprawled on the floor of her room,
and their Mies Martinich loyal cat dead on her lying.

People have told them with horror. And the otherwise rich Trina, who gave the church and the clergy
always so happy when she something had to give, is buried, how to bury a beggar, without song
and sound, without Bells and entourage, and no neighbors have them, want to accompany the
cemetery, not a relative is followed her body, she had them so abated nothing. O cold world,
how cold will you are in age, then have nothing with which to be able to cover the feet, and
oh, the earthly defects, considered with sharper eyes to the old man!

When Trina was dead now, tell the people, it is always handled as
a witch and goes to to this day as a witch in the form of an old gray
cat, who is known because she has eyes that glow like burning coals,
and that they terribly loud spruehet and snorts when she hunts.

It will be seen all Mitt Erna Echte to the point where Trines house was formerly, and there
miserably howled, but in winter, when the barns and are on the roofs of the furious cat weddings,
she is always ahead of the hellish Hunting and leads the whole crowd and miaulet and whining
on the allerscheusslichste. This Understand the people's voice in Putgarten so well, that old
and young like crying out: "Hear Da is again the old Trine! "

This has been the Trine Pipers, and so it goes for many people to this day. It is a Poor, miserable
beggar woman and has become lost their Christian, good name, because she has had the colorful
cat Martinich rather than people.

Because if they no been witch, so have the neighbors and neighbors believe it yet, because they
are in its ugly and unnatural love of the incomprehensible creature so in the cat had mind
and sign into hineinvertieft stolen and people that they no longer was seeking and how else
might you loved last blinked with cats and Cat's eyes squinted, and with all Katzenmaennchen
are curved and twisted, have so that no person and no cattle and therefore, no longer has
to endure it lucky with her and they can last with her cat Mies Martinich all alone and so
remained in the largest Wretch perished.

Klas Avenstaken.

In the countryside near the town of Minden, Westphalia, where it has
many able farmers who lived before long years in Duemmelshusen Schulze,
who was called Peter Avenstaken, a man of morals and how patient and
gentle and so infamous among friends and neighbors well and popular,
but otherwise of great horseman and body, and of such enormous strength
that he passed only the strong and wide was called Peter, and that
the people he went a hundred yards from the road, when he was evil,
because he was evil, so he was very, and anyway could not mediocre .

Do This Schulze Duemmelshusen had a favorite word he used frequently
and the in his friendship and relationship was very old, for maintaining
respectable peasantry on certain words and sayings Sinnsprueche just
be held so as noblemen, the flags and lead shield, and also share
a pride in the old.

This word was said by degrees or, as they say in Westphalia, Grade doer, and after the words
because he is so often in the mouth led, some people called him Peter Grad doer, what he would
probably be incorporated. It was at the word nor a superstition, which for centuries in the family
Avenstaken had propagated, namely, they thought, that of the children, which is the word I make
out the other, the fittest and luckiest will be found, and so listened and noted the age early on.
But had its origin of the saying of a old story that has gone with the founder of the house, who settled
in Minden was. He was a shoemaker named class, born in the little place Corbach Waldeck. One
day when he was with one of his companions in their travels and through the high forest plotted
along the Weser was the way to Minden, was a furious wolf him go. His company was not the start
but ran away and climbed a tree, Class but remained firm foot and stand eye, took his stick and
was waiting for the wolf, and than this to feed him, he pushed him the stick in the throat
and pushed open so powerful that the stick back out again and drove the wolf stretched out all
fours. His company was now back at him, but that he beat away from you as a cowardly and wretched
Schaecher, and went with a couple of Koehler, that the adventure had watched his Path through
the forest and slept in the next village. The wolf he had the skin removed and was this beautiful
trophy on his stick that he a skinner sold in the next city. As the class had arrived in the
village inn, telling " Koehler battle with the wolf, and all the peasants and servants and
prostitutes came together, they saw the young shoemaker, who had killed the wolf with the
stick, like Koenig David the Goliath with stones. And they wondered much, for the young man
saw not so great, though he was strong, and they all wanted to see and touch the rod, the
prostitutes, but it held only with horror. It was otherwise a very ordinary spike floor, the one
given to the young Becker Corbach class had his wanderings, and he was at the top burned because
Becker had umgeruehrt the coals in the oven at times with it. The more classes and praised the people
were happy about it because of the hearty response that he was the mayor of the village on the
question of how he did it because starting with the wolf kill him, because the plug will not have done
it well alone, but the Schusterpfriemen I probably have to come to the assistance with. For Klas
told him very briefly, Mr. Schulze, with a If you catch everything bit of courage to clever,
and so is this just by plugging oven the wolf went and asked not only whether his back door was
locked. The mayor wanted to be angry, and growled, but the others were called silence him.
For Klas had won for himself all his free creatures capable, and most took the pretty young
girls undertook the work, and carried him apples and pears and nuts and Cake to the bet and called
him by himself on the dance, which later in the evening the inn began, and they would have from
resulting not from the people, some had him hugged and kissed well with pleasure. But that did not
happen, and class itself was still really stupid, because this was his first traveling, and history
that the first time that he the stranger was.

The next morning when the sun broke, took his class and his wolf skin, and plugging came to Minden
and found work with a master and stayed there. But it was his lucky that he had with the Koehler
addressed here in the village inn, as a young and pretty Peasant girl was so in love with him
that she saw nothing else day and night and dreamed as the young shoemaker journeyman class,
and that they love and longing almost abzehrte and he did not want to live without. The parents
searched her the most out of it, but love, it honestly believes, as they say, the most incurable
of all diseases. They had to so if they wanted to keep her daughter finally give into it, and
went even after Minden and searched by Klas on Corbach everyone knew already because of his
wolf story; and they took the brave fellows to their beautiful daughter, who was her only
child, that they were taking it to the woman and the death redeemed. And class to be asked
not long because the pretty young girl he liked, and he moved in with her in the village,
and put awl and Ahl, and took away the plow and spade it into the hand and lived as a righteous
Peasant, and was for some years Schulze's place, the grumbling about his speech had. Place
called him and his world class Avenstaken, but he got used to the
floor to the other he used, degree doer, because they used to in jest
of it say, says Klas Avenstaken degree doer.

And his grandchildren and great-grandchildren kept after him as a good word, good luck and
courage meant.

St. Peter's in Duemmelshusen were of his wife Grethe Tibbeke for many sons and daughters , Greth
was born and her husband have often been put, he should a son baptized in the name of the
main classes of friendship, he had but always denied, and other names given to boys. Now it happened
that another boy was born, and that Peter wanted to use force, glad that this class should be
stiffened against which Greth very because they wanted the friendship and the name John because
he on Midsummer Eve to the world had come. They also said, as she looked at the child in the cradle:
Look man, as gently and quietly looks the boy! that will do you no class in the world, which
is a Wolf picks up, but Peter replied, Kikelkakel! very reason he is called class, the pious
always the best heroes have been, and look like bullies bite, often no End of these two straws.
In short, it helped Greth no prayers and pleas, no wailing and scolding, Peter was adamant
this time and said: Just because he on Midsummer Eve, in such a large Evening is born, he will
be called class, and I bet he will be an able class. And with these words he took his hat from
the nail and put it on a little queer, as he used to do when he is angry, and went out and did
not notice the cries of his Greth and aunts and gossips behind him. The priest had to baptise
the child class.

So forget the Greth, their John could not, half crying and half laughing said: No, St. Peter's
what came through the foolish head, as dogs and cats wont to happen, which, if you take them
the boys that we cherish, leave one or two and the rest drown, always take the same boys from
all first and then contribute to their camp, draw where people are and then leave, thinking the
old woman best would have to know which of their young Seyen the best. I will look at what
will be attacked from this class of my dear Peter.

And the small class flourished his name well, undaunted, he took his mother's breast and left
it its food, shot in the second month, already had made his first tooth, the fourth Months only six
teeth and have enjoyed the way all food and drink, before the ninth Month but he was already
standing on its own feet and turned his face to the sky. Then , Peter, his father, him on the
arm, smiled and held him seelenvergnuegt the Greth back and said, Look, Greth, what a class!
Greth but half evil half good-naturedly replied: Your class is not all about mountains, I wanted
to, his name was John. And Peter put the boy back on the ground, looked angry and walked silently
and glumly from the Door. Such little teasing about the boy had often under the two spouses, by
the way, loved with all my heart. They hurt the small classes but not He prospered well, was broad
at the shoulders and chest, threw all the boys of his age and also a year older, were on the ground.

He
was in the eating, drinking, sleeping and playing five years ago has become. Now put him the
father of the spring and summer just around the geese, and the winter he had in the Pray and go
to school and learn the ABCs. With the seventh year he moved to the pig herders before and in
the ninth, he had already oxen and horses hat. All this he did properly and sent so that the
father enjoyed it. The only thing complaints poured in, were bumps, which he suggested the
neighbors' children, Ms Greth often lamented about the many torn
pants and jackets that he brought home, no, not always brought home
but sometimes hung on the trees and the thorns left, they also complained
to the top Tribunal of arbitrators with his father at times when he
geblaeuet his older brothers had, for in anger, he could force all
the boys, the four were older than five years he said.

The old Peter was delighted a mostly when he was in such hochnothpeinlichen Halsgerichtsfaellen
had to climb his chair. The conclusion of the song was almost always that the plaintiffs and Greth
Anwald because of their inadmissibility of the reasons and witnesses have been dismissed. Wohlgefaellig
Peter then said: I know I did it in my boyhood so, has he the Klas ever started the quarrel?
the others are not always the Necker? happens to them their right to if he punishes efficient.
It is good that he can force them, they will be the desire to pass away. And then he took his class
common and stroked him and kissed him and warned him to keep all bliss. Meanwhile, it was
necessary but, in fact, not: Klas was one of the most tranquil and friendly boy, do anything
to harm any creature, could tease the least weaker and smaller boys, but when he provoked a ward,
used he power of his fists not mediocrity.

Not as good as after the geese, swine and steers it went behind the
benches of the class Schoolmaster.

He had little desire for learning and skill and could in four years hardly bring to read, for
what he skilfully in the winter, he had in the summer in fields and woods ever correctly reflect
sweat out, so that his brothers and the neighborhood kids at school always were praised far more
than he. However, the old schoolmaster love him very much and gave him the praise of Sittig,
of obedience and piety. In the house that was under the old some small annoyance. Peter, who
had all his children the most, what he but never wanted to remember was, often alone and helped
him out with him his Lex cope. But they did so not through yet, Greth often called him their broad
bullhead, and Peter could not apply it, he had to listen to it and to remain silent, so he had to
It probably suffer that Juergen and Joachim and Christine, his brothers, and the Thrine and Therese,
his sisters, as more skilled and smarter children were praised. Then said They probably sometimes
mockingly - otherwise it was a kindhearted woman - Peter, we do just see what becomes of your class, I
wish he would be John, he'd be different now. It then struck out the last straw, Peter took his
cap and went to the farm and in the stable, and that he auslueftete besaenne again. And when
he was sober and then came back, he grumbled for itself: class is yet to be the best. Klas was
namely, another great sign of what the father he built houses: since their fourth year said the
boy always doer degree when he was violently or what Violent and desolation wanted to start,
especially when he clenched his fists to slaughter. The that no other Peter Avenstakens children,
although they hear the word from the mouth of the father often could. And Peter experienced
great joy in that class before his ninth year around Village, young and old class was called
degree doer and that the people back to Duemmelshusen said degree doer says Klas Avenstaken.

Klas was twelve years old now, was unusually large for his age and strong, was very straight
and firmly on his feet, had a large head and broad forehead with curtains Flat hair, under which
he looked out a few defiant blue eyes. Many people said He was a handsome boy, Peter, his father
said, he is the nicest boy in the village, but Greth said, that he was too clumsy and thick,
and his brothers Seyen much nicer. Then came the thirteenth autumn of his life, and with the
November of that autumn disappeared by Klas one of the most wonderful events that will tell me
now, suddenly out of the parental Home.

Peter had hired a new servant, who drew upon the first of November. This was called Hans Valentin
and was already an elderly man of fifty years. The servant was not long in the house, he concluded
with the boys a peculiar friendship, but most with class. Valentin knew namely many fables, stories
and tales and all sorts of old long ago lost Leuschen *, and told them in the evening after
work, the children, and it was through his beautiful stories soon so famous that even the
children of the neighborhood frequently in Peter's house came to hear him. This was most of Saturday
and Sunday evening, when Valentine had time to talk. The boys took the apples Valentin and
nuts, and other nice things, and so was the co-located in a corner back and feasted and told. But
this was something special, that of all children not kept alive the stories told again and better
than classes, so that Peter it often with pleasure and smile zuhorchte called to the Greth:
Do you hear Greth? Hoerst du's how the class can tell the flash boy? But she let it slip and said cold
probably: Yes he is a class and a class he remains a true Maehrchenklas, but Schultz is he
will never be, because he can not write, yes. Thus spoke the Aging about any class to his own
way, they realized not to say that was happening to a large class and that alteration Valentin
him much more alive and the heart was much more fun. Taken because the stories the boy so that
he saw nothing and heard, wrote poetry and dreamed of being witches
and wizards Dragons and giants, enchanted princesses and enchanted
castles.

Yes, it went so far as Many a night that the boy could not even sleep in front, but often the
eyes still had open when the cock announced by his fifth circles already, the sky was aufthun his
eyes closed again. -------------------------- * The beautiful word for Tale. --------------------------

Valentin
got there it was with his boys up against the holy Christmas, where the long Evenings and
many holidays to games and tales of opportunity and where did all the world because of the
birth of the sweet little child Jesus to many festivals and pleasures about left and where friends
fun with friends and neighbors with neighbors lived. Valentine had up to this happy time his best
stories saved up, he had the children, which, together with the Old
had considered him plenty of gifts as they say, than his Maeusekiste
up.

Of all the stories but that he served up to them, they were most pleased by the of the pancakes
and mountains of the glass mountain to which he follows with a bright voice fine-sounding
rhymes used to sing:

Who, tell me where is the pancake mountain, peppered with roast beef, with sugar and marzipan
And stuffed full of ducats bushels? Crystal Mountain, Crystal Mountain, When you jump up? Gambling
dwarf, artificial dwarf When you wake up?

When the bell strikes twelve, When the thief carries sacks, jump 'on me;

When the cock crowed a second AND the moon is at its highest, then wake me on.

These stories are so pleased that they are at least four days in a row with new decorations had
to be told, especially since, as Valentine knew, the two mountains were in the neighborhood in
the high forest, in which he the boy that there is often the cattle had kept the oak and beech,
described very clearly and stated that in their Summit objects. By day, he added, one can not
look at these mountains, however, what they are, then they look like all the other mountains, but
at midnight they are what they are, one of the very clearest and most transparent of all glass, where Moon
and stars shine through to the bottom, and the other of the most magnificent pancakes, as gorgeous
as he is never baked in a pan. The legend goes that he then waved friendly and a lower voice,
that he who enters the pancake mountain, a great king, and jump into the glass mountain, whole
sacks of ducats and gold and silver cups Shells wears them home, but who has the courage to?
Such people are not all days . Born

The little word: But who has the courage to? was now, as it usually happens among boys, Opportunity
for much teasing, and they whetted twisted and teased each other with it, and some Weeks you
heard at the end of each story by always sound: But who has the courage to? and some damage also
said Elke well Klas degree doer has the courage. And then shrugged it Klas always in the fingers,
and he certainly would have needed if the father was not there would be, for Peter it punished hard
when the boys were fighting in his presence.
 Hence many think they do well when they sin. Jonah thought
he did well to be angry with God (Jonah 4:9). The Pharisees thought they did well when they
said, Christ had a devil (John 8:48). And Paul thought verily, that he ought to do many things
against, or contrary to, the name of Jesus; which he also did with great madness (Acts 26:9,10).
And thus sin puffs up men with pride, and a conceit of themselves, that they are a thousand
times better than they are. Hence they think they are the children of God, when they are the
children of the devil; and that they are something as to Christianity, when they neither are
such, nor know what it is that they must have to make them such (John 8:41-44; Gal 6:3).

Now, whence flows this but from pride, and a self-conceit of themselves, and that their state
is good for another world, when they are yet in their sins, and under the curse of God? Yea,
and this pride is so strong and high, and yet so hid in them, that all the ministers in the
world cannot persuade them that this is pride, not grace, in which they are so confident. Hence
they slight all reproofs, rebukes, threatenings, or admonitions that are pressed upon them,
to prevail with them to take heed, that they be not herein deceived. 'Hear ye,' saith the prophet,
'and give ear: be not proud, for the Lord hath spoken.' 'But if ye will not hear it, my soul
shall weep in secret places for your pride' (Jer 13:15-17). And what was the conclusion? Why,
all the proud men stood out still, and maintained their resistance of God and his holy prophet
(Jer 43:2).

Nor is there any thing that will prevail with these to the saving of their souls, until their
hearts are broken. David, after he had defiled Bathsheba, and slain her husband, yet boasted
himself in his justice and holiness, and would by all means have the man put to death that
had but taken the poor man's lamb, when, alas! poor soul, himself was the great transgressor.
But would he believe it? No, no; he stood upon the vindicating of himself to be a just doer;
nor would he be made to fall until Nathan, by authority from God, did tell him that he was
the man whom himself had condemned; 'Thou art the man,' said he: at which word his conscience
was awakened, his heart wounded, and so his soul made to fall under the burden of his guilt,
at the feet of the God of heaven for mercy (2 Sam 12:1-13).

Ah! pride, pride! thou art that which holds many a man in the chains of his sins; thou art
it, thou cursed self-conceit, and keepest them from believing that their state is damnable.
'The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God' (Psa 10:4). And
if there is so much in the pride of his countenance, what is there, think you, in the pride
of his heart? Therefore Job says it is to hide pride from man, and so to save his soul from
hell, that God chasteneth him with pain upon his bed, until the multitude of his bones stick
out, and until his life draws nigh to the destroyer (Job 33:17-22).

It is a hard thing to take a man off his pride, and make him, instead of trusting in, and boasting
of his goodness, wisdom, honesty, and the like, to see himself a sinner, a fool, yea, a man
that is cruel, as to his own immortal soul. Pride of heart has a power in it, and is therefore
compared to an iron sinew, and an iron chain, by which they are made stout, and with which
they are held in that stoutness, to oppose the Lord, and drive his Word from their hearts (Lev
26:19; Psa 73:6).

This was the sin of devils, and it is the sin of man, and the sin, I say, from which no man
can be delivered until his heart is broken; and then his pride is spoiled, then he will be
glad to yield. If a man be proud of his strength or manhood, a broken leg will maul him; and
if a man be proud of his goodness, a broken heart will maul him; because, as has been said,
a broken heart comes by the discovery and charge of sin, by the power of God upon the conscience.

Fourth. Man, take him as he comes into the world, and he is not only a dead man, a fool, and
proud, but also self-willed and headstrong (2 Peter 2:10). A stubborn ungain creature is man
before his heart is broken. Hence they are so often called rebels, rebellious, and disobedient:
they will only do what they list. 'All day long,' says God, 'have I stretched out my hand to
a disobedient and gainsaying people.' And hence, again, they are compared to a self-willed
or headstrong horse, that will, in spite of his rider, rush into the battle. 'Every one,' says
God, 'turneth to his course, as the horse rusheth into battle' (Jer 8:6). They say, 'With our
tongue will we prevail, our lips are our own; who is lord over us' (Psa 12:4).

Hence they are said to stop their ears, to pull away their shoulder, to shut their eyes, and
harden their hearts, 'against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the Most High'
(Psa 107:11; Zech 7:10,12). They are fitly compared to the rebellious son who would not be
ruled by his parents, or to the prodigal, who would have all in his own hand, and remove himself
far away from father and father's house (Deut 21:20; Luke 15:13). Now for such creatures, nothing
will do but violence. The stubborn son must be stoned till he dies; and the prodigal must be
famished out of all; nothing else, I say, will do. Their self-willed stubborn heart will not
comply with the will of God before it is broken (Deut 21:21; Luke 15:14-17). These are they
that are called the stout-hearted; these are said to be far from righteousness, and so will
remain until their hearts are broken; for so they must be made to know themselves (Isa 9:9-11).

Fifth. Man, as he comes into the world, is not only a dead man, a fool, proud, and self-willed,
but also a fearless creature. 'There is,' saith the text, 'no fear of God before their eyes'
(Rom 3:18). No fear of God! There is fear of man, fear of losing his favour, his love, his
good-will, his help, his friendship; this is seen everywhere. How do the poor fear the rich,
the weak fear the strong, and those that are threatened, them that threaten! But come now to
God; why, none fear him; that is, by nature, none reverence him; they neither fear his frowns,
nor seek his favour, nor inquire how they may escape his revenging hand that is lifted up against
their sins and their souls because of sin. Little things they fear the losing of them; but
the soul they are not afraid to lose. 'They fear not me, saith the Lord' (Mal 3:5).

How many times are some men put in mind of death by sickness upon themselves, by graves, by
the death of others? How many times are they put in mind of hell by reading the Word, by lashes
of conscience, and by some that go roaring in despair out of this world? How many times are
they put in mind of the day of judgment. As, 1. By God's binding the fallen angels over to
judgment. 2. By the drowning of the old world (2 Peter 2:4,5; Jude 6,7). 3. By the burning
of Sodom and Gomorrah with fire from heaven (2 Peter 2:6; Jude 7). 4. By appointing a day (Acts
17:29-31). 5. By appointing a judge (Acts 10:40-42). 6 By reserving their crimes in records
(Isa 30:8; Rev 20:12). 7. By appointing and preparing of witnesses (Rom 2:15). 8. And by promising,
yea, threatening, yea, resolving, to call the whole world to his bar, there to be judged for
all which they have done and said, and for every secret thing (Matt 25:31-33, 12:36; Eccl 11:9,
12:14).

And yet they fear not God: alas! they believe not these things. These things, to carnal men,
are like Lot's preaching to his sons and daughters that were in Sodom. When he told them that
God would destroy that place, he seemed unto them as one that mocked; and his words to them
were as idle tales (Gen 19:14). Fearless men are not won by words; blows, wounds, and killings,
are the things that must bring them under fear. How many struggling fits had Israel with God
in the wilderness? How many times did they declare that there they feared him not? And observe,
they were seldom, if ever, brought to fear and dread his glorious name, unless he beset them
round with death and the grave. Nothing, nothing but a severe hand, will make the fearless
fear. Hence, to speak after the manner of man, God is put upon it to go this way with sinners
when he would save their souls; even bring them, and lay them at the mouth, and within sight
of hell and everlasting damnation: and there also charge them with sin and guilt, to the breaking
of their hearts, before they will fear his name.

Sixth. Let God report of himself never so plainly, man by nature will not believe this report
of him. No, they are become vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart is darkened;
wherefore they turn the glory of God, which is his truth, into a lie (Rom 1:21-25). They are, which
the redemption is not successful. Whoever succeeds, however, who married the princess and get
all the treasure and the other poor prisoners freed at the same time. They say the last twenty
years it has sunk, a shoemaker, who was called Fritz Jochim. That was a beautiful young blood
and was always walking a lot on the Wall. The one with suddenly disappeared, and no one knew
where he was thrown up and flown, and its Parents and friends have made him look all over the
world but not found! He may now sit well with the others.

Rats Koenig Birlibi

I want to tell the story of the rat Birlibi Koenig, a story that I Balzer told Tievs from Preseke
often has with many other stories. Balzer was a servant; served on my father's yard when I was eight,
nine years old, a man of roguish Ideas, who knew many stories and fairy tales. The story of
the rat king Birlibi is:

In the village of Stralsund's Old Kamp,
which between Garza and Putbus sideways on the beach lies, has previously
lived a wealthy farmer who was called Hans Burwitz.

That was a neat, smart man, where everything he got attacked, and who had the best army in the
village. He had sixteen cows, forty sheep, eight horses and two foals in the stable and the pairing,
smooth as the eel and of such good breeding, that its abundance in the horse market Berger were
paid less to eight to ten guns apiece. To this end, he had six beautiful children, Sons and
daughters, and it went so well that the people it well to the rich peasant Altenkamp used to call. This
man is by nightly gears in the forest for all his Fortune came.

Hans Burwell was also a strong Jaeger, especially he had an excellent weather on Foxes and martens,
and was so often at night in the forest where he had placed his iron
and lay in wait for the catch.

As he has in the dark and in the twilight of the dawn and the moonlight seen and heard some
things that he did not like wiedererzaehlen, such as the forest of Many wonderful and bizarre
events happening at night, but the story of the rats Koenig Birlibi has to learn from him.
 Alas! how many are there that contemn
all the allurements of heaven, and that trample upon all the threatenings of God, and that
say, 'Tush,' at all the flames of hell, whenever these are propounded as motives to work them
off their sinful delights! so fixed are they, so mad are they, upon these beastly idols. Yea,
he that shall take in hand to stop their course in this their way, is as he that shall attempt
to prevent the raging waves of the sea from their course, when driven by the mighty winds.

When men are somewhat put to it, when reason and conscience shall begin a little to hearken
to a preacher, or a judgment that shall begin to hunt for iniquity, how many tricks, evasions,
excuses, demurs, delays, and hiding-holes will they make, invent, and find, to hide and preserve
their sweet sins with themselves and their souls, in the delights of them, to their own eternal
perdition? Hence they endeavour to stifle conscience, to choke convictions, to forget God,
to make themselves atheists, to contradict preachers that are plain and honest, and to heap
to themselves such of them only as are like themselves, that speak unto them smooth things,
and prophesy deceits; yea, they say themselves to such preachers, 'Get you out of the way;
turn aside out of the path; cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us' (Isa 30:8-11).
If they be followed still, and conscience and guilt shall, like blood-hounds, find them out
in their secret places, and roar against them for their wicked lives, then they will flatter,
cogg, dissemble, and lie against their soul, promising to mend, to turn, to repent, and grow
better shortly; and all to daff[13] off convictions and molestations in their wicked ways,
that they may yet pursue their lusts, their pleasures, and sinful delights, in quiet, and without
control.

Yea, further, I have known some that have been made to roar like bears, to yell like dragons,
and to howl like dogs, by reason of the weight of guilt, and the lashes of hell upon their
conscience for their evil deeds; who have, so soon as their present torments and fears were
gone, returned again with the 'dog to his vomit; and as the sow that was washed, to her wallowing
in the mire' (Hosea 7:14; 2 Peter 2:20-22).

Once again, some have been made taste of the good Word of God, of the joy of heaven, and of
the powers of the world to come, and yet could not by any one, nay, by all of these, be made
to break their league for ever with their lusts and sins (Heb 6:4,5; Luke 8:13; John 5:33-35).
O Lord! what is man, that thou art mindful of him? Wherein is he to be accounted of? He has
sinned against thee; he loves his sins more than thee. He is a lover of pleasures more than
he is a lover of God!

But now, how shall this man be reclaimed from this sin? How shall he be brought, wrought, and
made, to be out of love with it? Doubtless it can be by no other means, by what we can see
in the Word, but by the wounding, breaking, and disabling of the heart that loves it, and by
that means making it a plague and gall unto it. Sin may be made an affliction, and as gall
and wormwood to them that love it; but the making of it so bitter a thing to such a man, will
not be done but by great and sore means. I remember we had in our town some time since, a little
girl that loved to eat the heads of foul tobacco-pipes, and neither rod nor good words could
reclaim her, and make her leave them. So her father takes advice of a doctor, to wean her from
them, and it was this: Take, saith he, a great many of the foulest tobacco-pipe heads you can
get, and boil them in milk, and make a posset of that milk, and make your daughter drink the
posset-drink up. He did so, and gave his girl it, and made her drink it up; the which became
so irksome and nauseous to her stomach, and made her so sick, that she could never abide to
meddle with tobacco-pipe heads any more, and so was cured of that disease. Thou lovest thy
sin, and neither rod nor good words will as yet reclaim thee. Well, take heed; if thou wilt
not be reclaimed, God will make thee a posset of them, which shall be so bitter to thy soul,
so irksome to thy taste, so loathsome to thy mind, and so afflicting to thy heart, that it
shall break it with sickness and grief, till it be loathsome to thee. And now come!

And they took him by the hand, and he was her quiet and obedient as
a little child and had the lead of her where she wanted.

And the queen took him into the room of the princess and her daughter put her hands the two together
and blessed them on. And they could be pleasing to speak, but they could not speak. For the
princess was gone not more than class, once they had seen him, it had been in it, as if to
sound out her breast: the is the man, and no other!

And if the princess was called the most beautiful of all, Sun Klas mogte well with the just rights
of the most beautiful of all are called.

And now class, and the ships remained at anchor in the bay, and no eye was on the winds Eight.
They were all addressed to the country, no one thought of ropes and
sails and oars, but The men decorated spores and Waffenroecke for
the wedding.

This was in a few weeks celebrated with great splendor, and the beautiful princess took classes Avenstaken
to the man Henceforth the king class of Jutland was called.

And he lived some merry day and some nice night with the princess in the castle. It was the castle
but in South Jutland, where now stands the city Schlesswig. But he forgot in the joy not in transmission,
they made preparations for war against the zealous Gentiles, and
they set it.

And it began a long hard struggle for domination, until they were defeated and finally class was
king of the whole great peninsula and over the Islands around.

And it was the end of the second year, after he killed the pagan king and the princess had
married when he had conquered all the land of the nations among themselves up to the Elbe
and the cross was erected as a banner of salvation of his reign everywhere for the colorful idols
of stone and wood - as classes once stood on this side of the river Elbe, and his own eyes, as
he saw in the distance beyond the point where it once with the bar on the ship was bound, and
it was really the point, and he saw three trees again, the stuck high on a hill above the shore.
And his wonderful biography walked over to him here in thought, and in humility he fell on the
ground and prayed and thanked God that he saved him from so many dangers and in such an extraordinary
had made way for the King and Lord over countries and peoples. And he named the place where he stood,
and there Glueckstadt builded a castle, and the castle and the town
is of his time to this day.

Klas was twenty-six years old, and it was the sixth Year since that morning, where was he escaped
the gallows, which he had so innocent should hang.

And when he had conquered the nations, and pacified the country with castles and fortresses,
since he thought with longing and love of his old parents and his siblings and friends, and
delay no longer but joined the trip to them. He took the queen but his Gemal together with thousand
of his horsemen, that he would have a royal escort, so he pulled over the same against South.
And when they pulled four days and broke the fifth day and they were not far from his home because
he told the troopers rode back and stay forward with his Queen and only had a squire with him.
And it was just the lunch the fifth day and the bell struck twelve, as they rode in Duemmelshusen
and gradezu on his father's house. They let the horses run in the village but were able to run
what they so people who saw them, not about them nor does it reflect betrayed his parents could.
And when she arrived home from Peter Avenstakens, the king leaped from Klas Horse called and
funny doer degrees! that it was heard by the whole village. And Peter, with Wife and children
sat at the table just jumped in at the words and saw the man and the Woman with the golden crowns
on their heads. He noted, however, immediately that it was his son, and said: Well thank God
that you're back and become a king! We have already heard, they have us believe but do not
want your own mother has it do not believe, just me and Valentin have believed it right, because
we both knew well, that something special had to be out of you. And he cried aloud in joy: Valentin!
Valentin! come on out, that you see, what happened to our class! And Valentin came and the mother
and siblings all came, and it was a heart and kisses, that there is no wanted to take over. And
had gone in as the king and the queen and at the Parents set table and ate with them and had
been drinking in humility to God and Love for them, since Peter took over the old and the joy
he did not know what he talking should, he said, for joy almost too much. And as he whispered into
the ears of Greth, and it is probably not have been right in such moments: Now Greth, my class
of the class gone? John would have made your best interests to be
more?

And class is many a day and many weeks left in his old age and has merry with they lived, and
did it and his siblings and neighborhood children plentifully, the old Valentine but he has taken
to him and said: "Dear Valentine, you must My sons tell some funny stories and waidliche how
every able man with God's help, something can be so brave men and heroes become of them. And
Valentin is like pulled him because he was on a much more class and thought Koenig with him,
he did it really made king. Even his youngest brother, the Koenig and brought his youngest sister
and the brother and the sister of a count become a countess, and live many distinguished people
in the world, which originate from them. He has, however, insisted before the departure that, if
the father died, he Bauergut the should fall, and has bought his brothers just around ten
times that value. And the father and the brothers have promised him and kept. For he said,
"I will one of my sons hinschicken, to be a farmer and his children and grandchildren to remain
farmers, because farmers are older and stay out longer than the Kings.

And King Classic is gone back home to his kingdom and still has many years of happy love lived and
ruled with his queen and many sons and daughters fathered with her, and have many great kings
and queens ruled out his blood for him. But it is the glorious race of class Avenstaken now
extinct a long time and a different strain prevails in the land that once revered him as king. But
his son Konrad sex lasts until this day. This was his youngest son, Konrad. This he did immediately
after his birth to the country a farmer and let him live, work and farming and sent it then in the
land of his home in Westphalia to Duemmelshusen, find him on the farm his father was. And
Conrad has become big and strong like King Classic, but not so powerful and beautiful to the
world, but died as a village mayor what his grandfather Peter been. And from that the king's son
Conrad are still to this day all Avenstaken her living as farmers in Duemmelshusen and in
the area.

Princess Svanvithe

You've probably heard of the legend that here in Garz, where the Wall is now above the lake, been
thousands of years ago a large and beautiful castle with magnificent heath Houses and churches
in which they have had their idols and worshiped. This castle have Once upon a time, the Christians
conquered, killed all the heroes and their churches and overturned the idols that were in it, burned
with fire: and now nothing left of all the great glory as the old wall and some Leuschen which people
to tell, particularly impressed by the man with helmet and armor, the white on the white horse often
about the city and the lake hinreitet. Some who have seen him nocturnal stories, It was the old
king of the castle, and he had a golden crown. But that is all nothing. But that it sounds
like Christmas and St. John in the night from the lake, as if Bells are rung in the churches,
that is true, and many people have heard it, and also my father. This is a church that is submerged
in the lake, others say it is the Goetz old temple. The believe I did not, for what should
be the heroes of Christian Holidays will ring? But the ringing and ringing in the lake you
is nothing compared to what the Wall goes on, and which I will tell a story. There sits a beautiful
Princess to war with whipped hair and weeping eyes, waiting for the will of the to redeem,
and this is a very sad story.

In those ancient times when the castle was Garze Heide besieged by the Christians and the inside
in great distress, because they were were very crowded, as already put down some towers were
and they had not quite live longer and the poor people in the city now and re already died of hunger
in there was an old gray-haired man, the father of the king, ruled on Ruegen. This old man was
so old that he did not quite hear more and see could, but it still was his desire, under the
gold and the precious stones and diamonds to dig, which he had collected and his predecessors
in the kingdom and the deep under the Earth in a beautiful, through pure marble and crystal-built
hall were held. Of which there were very large pile of reclaimed, much bigger than the rye and barley
pile which are heaped on your father's granary. And when the castle of the Christians to Garz Sun
was distressed in the siege and many of the bravest men and the king, the old man's son, slain
in the battle on the walls and the gates of the city were important because the old man no longer
out of the marble chamber, but it was night and day and had the doors and stairs that led them
to be walled up close, but he knew another little secret passage that ran away under the earth,
hundreds of steps down as the lock and the other side of the lake had an outlet, which no man
knew when he and where he could hinausschluepfen and buy out at the people eating and drinking.
As is now conquering the castle of the Christians and was destroyed and the men and women were
killed in the castle and all the houses and churches burned, that no stone others remained,
as the towers and walls fell over each other, and was the door of the gold chamber even buried;
also was not a man alive who knew where the dead king's treasures had had. The old king was sitting
down there with his pile of gold and had his secret passage open and has lived many hundred years
after the castle destroyed was, for they say that people who hang on too much silver and gold
may are not of life saved and not die when God no matter how much the death . Ask So lived the
old, hoary-headed man, many, many years and had his gold watch, until it all aridity and was
as dry as a skeleton. Since he's dead and been transformed as a punishment and must now be considered
a lean black dog under the pile of gold and they are guarding, if someone comes and wants to get
the treasure. But at night between twelve and a clock, when the ghost hour, he must still go
around as an old gray man with a black Pudelmuetze on the head and a white stick in his Hand.
So people have often seen him in Garze wood on the way to Poseritz, nor is sometimes it around
at the cemetery. For there to be had before Heidengraeber age, and The heroes have always taken
a lot of silver and gold in the earth. The pick he wants so he creeps there, but can not get
it, for he must not touch the consecrated ground. But this is his punishment that he has to
run so smoothly when other people in the beds and Graves sleep because he has been so stingy.

Now
it came to pass many days that a king lived in Bergen on Ruegen, the had a beautiful daughter,
who was called Svanvithe, and she was the most beautiful princess far and wide, and there were kings
and princes and princes from all lands that the beautiful princess courted. And the king,
her father knew hardly leave before all the suitors and did not last
houses enough that it housed the aliens, yet Stables, where they hesitate
and their squires and stable their horses, and it almost gebrach Oats
in the land and space for all the drivers and attendants who came
with them, and was Ruegen so full of people than ever have been since
those days.

And the king was glad been if the princess would have made him a man and the others would be
free weggereist. It can, however, when the kings do not make it as easy as with other people,
and must since everything fro with much delicacy and slowness. The princess, having probably
remained a full half a year in her lonely chamber, and was seen no one not a single word was
said, finally found a prince who loved her well, and the they wanted to have a man, and the prince
also liked the old king that he liked him wanted as Eidam. And they had given each other rings,
and was great joy throughout the Country, that the beautiful Svanvithe should be married, and
had all the tailors and cobblers to do the abundance, to make beautiful clothes and shoes that
are worn to the wedding should. The prince, however, and became engaged Svanvithens groom was
called Peter of Denmark and over the masses was fine and handsome man, that his kind seen few
were.

Because when it all grows green in sweet hope and love and flourished and the island in Joys and
stood only a few days were up to the wedding, the devil came and sowed are weeds, and the air
was changed into sadness. It was, at the allda Royal court, a prince of Poland, a deceitful
and bad master, else and chivalrous in form and gesture. He had wooed many a year at the Princess
and they tormented day and night, but she had always said no because she did not like him . Suffer
As this Polish prince now saw that it should really be a wedding and that Mr Peter was chosen
by Denmark for the true love of the beautiful Svanvithe, he thought evil in his heart to arge
Tuecke and knew it by his skill to put such a way that The king and
everybody believed, was not chastise Svanvithe princess and have some
Nights at the Polish prince slept.

It also believed Mr Peter and went suddenly away, and the Polish Prince was first weggereist,
and all the kings and princes were traveling away. And the palace of the king was in mountain
deserts and empty there, and all the joy was pulled away with and all violinists and pipers,
and all strings, the armed men to tournaments and festivals had. And the shame of the poor
princess sounded over the country, even in Sweden and Denmark and Poland, they heard it, like
the marriage had been dashed. But she was certainly innocent and pure as a child born from
the womb, and there was nothing but the horrible wickedness of the wicked Polish prince, whom
she had rejected as a suitor.

So it was of poor Svanvithe, and the king, her father was a few days after these stories like a
madman, and knew not of himself, and he was so felt that he would have an injury can do that because
of his daughter and because of the abuse, they on the whole royal House had brought. And when
he changed his mind and came to himself and the whole blame thoughtful, into which he was advised
by his daughter, as he groaned in his heart, and he had the Svanvithe nice pick and struck it
hard and tore her hair and pushed them from and ordered his servants, that they brought them
out in a hidden chamber that His eyes never her again. He then left in an enclosed by thick
walls and build with dark tree-shaded garden behind his palace a gloomy tower, where neither
sun nor moon shone, as he locked the princess.

The tower, which he had built, but was firm and tight and had only one small hole in the Door, making
some light fell into it and how the princess became the food served. There was also no beds,
table or bench in the dreary prison, had on the hard earth lie, which had otherwise been sleeping on
silk and velvet, and had to go barefoot, which had otherwise geprangt in golden shoes. And Svanvithe
would have have to die with grief, if they would have not known that she was innocent, and if
you had not pray to God . Can But she was a very young child when she was imprisoned, only
sixteen old, beautiful as a rose and slim and white as a lily, and the people they loved, called
them no different than the king Lilienstengelein. And this sweet Lilienstengelein should be as miserable
wither in the cold and lonely darkness.

And they probably had three years that sat between the cold stones, and the old King was not
happy since that day, when the Polish prince in the great shame had brought, but his head had
become snow-white with grief as the head of a dove; However, the people in the guise of proud and
erect, and behaved as if his daughter would be long dead and buried. But she sat by the World
ungewusst and comforted in their misery God alone and thought that he would probably even bring
their innocence to the day. But as they in their solitary grief had enough hours to think back
and forth, then fell its the one thing from the royal treasure under the Garze Walle, made
in its infancy had often heard, and they thought that their innocence, and that the Polish prince among
a false appearance had lied disgraceful to show crystal clear. And as to her Waechter came and
gave her his food through the hole, she said to him: "Dear Waechter,
go to the king, my people and thy Lord, and tell him that his only
daughter, poor only to see it once and wished to speak in her life
and that he you fail this last favor do not like.

"

And the watchman said yes and went and thought to himself: "When the old king her request only
answered! " For he lamented the poor princess ineffable, and she mourned all Men, for they had
always been friendly to everyone, including the highest number of Believed in the beginning, she
was sued falsely and that the Polish Prince a wicked Luegenschein had brought to her, for she
had always all breeding and virginity studiously from everyone.

And when you Waechter before the king stepped forward and he attached the request of the princess,
there was the old man very angry and scolded him and threatened him, throw him or her in the
tower, when the name of the princess before him ever again leave running over his lips.


Christ, as I said, is called a physician; yea, he is the only soul-physician. He heals, how
desperate soever the disease be; yea, and heals who he undertakes for ever. 'I give unto them
eternal life,' and doth all of free cost, of mere mercy and compassion (John 10:28). But what
is all this to one that neither sees his sickness, that sees nothing of a wound? What is the
best physician alive, or all the physicians in the world, put all together, to him that knows
no sickness, that is sensible of no disease? Physicians, as was said, may go a-begging for
all the healthful. Physicians are of no esteem, save only to the sick, or upon a supposition
of being so now, or at any other time.

Why, this is the cause Christ is so little set by in the world. God has not made them sick
by smiting of them; his sword has not given them the wound, his dart has not been struck through
their liver; they have not been broken with his hammer, nor melted with his fire. So they have
no regard to his physician; so they slight all the provision which God has made for the salvation
of the soul. But now, let such a soul be wounded; let such a man's heart be broken; let such
a man be made sick through the sting of guilt, and be made to wallow himself in ashes under
the burden of his transgressions; and then, who but Christ, as has been showed afore, then
the physician; then, wash me, Lord, then supple my wounds, then pour thy wine and oil into
my sore; then Lord Jesus cause me to hear the voice of joy and gladness, that the bones which
thou hast broken may rejoice. Nothing now so welcome as healing; and so nothing, no man, so
desirable now as Christ. His name to such is the best of names; his love to such is the best
of love; himself being now not only in himself, but also to such a soul, the chiefest of ten
thousand (Can 5:10).

As bread to the hungry, as water to the thirsty, as light to the blind, and liberty to the
imprisoned; so, and a thousand times more, is Jesus Christ to the wounded, and to them that
are broken-hearted. Now, as was said, this must needs be excellent in God's eyes, since Christ
Jesus is so glorious in his eyes. To contemn what a man counts excellent, is an offence to
him; but to value, esteem, or think highly of that which is of esteem with me, this is pleasing
to me, such an opinion is excellent in my sight. What says Christ? 'My Father loveth you, because
ye loved me' (John 16:27). Who hath an high esteem for Christ, the Father hath an high esteem
for them. Hence it is said, 'He that hath the Son, hath the Father'; the Father will be his,
and will do for him as a Father, who receiveth and sets an honourable esteem on his Son.

But none will, none can do this, but the broken-hearted; because they, and they only, are sensible
of the want and worth of an interest in him.

I dare appeal to all the world as to the truth of this; and do say again, that these, and none
but these, have hearts of esteem in the sight of God. Alas! 'the heart of the wicked is little
worth,' for it is destitute of a precious esteem of Christ, and cannot but be destitute, because
it is not wounded, broken, and made sensible of the want of mercy by him (Prov 10:20).

Fourth. A broken heart is of great esteem with God, because it is a thankful heart for that
sense of sin and of grace it has received. The broken heart is a sensible heart. This we touched
upon before. It is sensible of the dangers which sin leadeth to; yea, and has cause to be sensible
thereof, because it has seen and felt what sin is, both in the guilt and punishment that by
law is due thereto. As a broken heart is sensible of sin, in the evil nature and consequences
of it; so it is also sensible of the way of God's delivering the soul from the day of judgment;
consequently it must be a thankful heart. Now he that praises me, glorifies me, saith God;
and God loves to be glorified. God's glory is dear unto him; he will not part with that (Psa
50:23; Isa 42:8).

The broken-hearted, say I, forasmuch as he is the sensible soul, it follows that he is the
thankful soul. 'Bless the Lord, O my soul,' said David, 'and all that is within me bless his
holy name.' Behold what blessing of God is here! and yet not content herewith, he goes on with
it again, saying, 'Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits.' But what is
the matter? O! he has 'forgiven all thine iniquities, and healed all thy diseases. He has redeemed
thy life from destruction, and crowneth thee with loving kindnesses and tender mercies' (Psa
103:1-4). But how came he to be affected with this? Why, he knew what it was to hang over the
mouth of hell for sin; yea, he knew what it was for death and hell to beset and compass him
about; yea, they took hold of him, as we have said, and were pulling of him down into the deep;
this he saw to the breaking of his heart. He saw also the way of life, and had his soul relieved
with faith and sense of that, and that made him a thankful man. If a man who has had a broken
leg, is but made to understand, that by the breaking of that he kept from breaking of his neck,
he will be thankful to God for a broken leg. 'It is good for me,' said David, 'that I have
been afflicted.' I was by that preserved from a great danger; for before that I went astray
(Psa 119:67,71).

And who can be thankful for a mercy that is not sensible that they want it, have it, and have
it of mercy? Now, this the broken-hearted, this the man that is of a contrite spirit, is sensible
of; and that with reference to mercies of the best sort, and therefore must needs be a thankful
man, and so have a heart of esteem with God, because it is a thankful heart.

Fifth. A broken heart is of great esteem with, or an excellent thing in, the sight of God,
because it is a heart that desires now to become a receptacle or habitation for the spirit
and graces of the Spirit of God. It was the devil's hold before, and was contented so to be.
But now it is for entertaining of, for being possessed with, the Holy Spirit of God. 'Create
in me a clean heart,' said David, 'and renew a right spirit within me. Take not thy Holy Spirit
from me, uphold me with thy free Spirit' (Psa 51:10-12). Now he was for a clean heart and a
right spirit; now he was for the sanctifying of the blessed spirit of grace; a thing which
the uncircumcised in heart resist, and do despite unto (Acts 7:51; Heb 10:29).

A broken heart, therefore, suiteth with the heart of God; a contrite spirit is one spirit with
him. God, as I told you before, covets to dwell with the broken in heart, and the broken in
heart desire communion with him. Now here is an agreement, a oneness of mind; now the same
mind is in thee which was also in Christ Jesus. This must needs be an excellent spirit; this
must needs be better with God, and in his sight, than thousands of rams, or ten thousand rivers
of oil. But does the carnal world covet this, this spirit, and the blessed graces of it? No,
they despise it, as I said before; they mock at it, they prefer and countenance any sorry,
dirty lust rather; and the reason is, because they want a broken heart, that heart so highly
in esteem with God, and remain for want thereof in their enmity to God.

The broken-hearted know, that the sanctifying of the Spirit is a good means to keep from that
relapse, out of which a man cannot come unless his heart be wounded a second time. Doubtless
David had a broken heart at first conversion, and if that brokenness had remained, that is,
had he not given way to hardness of heart again, he had never fallen into that sin out of which
he could not be recovered, but by the breaking of his bones a second time. Therefore, I say,
a broken heart is of great esteem with God; for it--and I will add, so long as it retains its
tenderness--covets none but God, and the things of his Holy Spirit; sin is an abomination to it.

[VI. ADVANTAGES THAT A CHRISTIAN GETS BY KEEPING HIS HEART TENDER.]

And here, as in a fit place, before I go any further, I will show you some of the advantages
that a Christian gets by keeping of his heart tender. For, as to have a broken heart, is to
have an excellent thing, so to keep this broken heart tender, is also very advantageous.

First. This is the way to maintain in thy soul always a fear of sinning against God. Christians
do not wink at, or give way to sin, until their hearts begin to lose their tenderness. A tender
heart will be affected at the sin of another, much more it will be afraid of committing of
sin itself (2 Kings 22:19).

Second. A tender heart quickly yieldeth to prayer, yea, prompteth to it, puts an edge and fire
into it. We never are backward to prayer until our heart has lost its tenderness; though then
it grows cold, flat, and formal, and so carnal to and in that holy duty.

Third. A tender hearts has always repentance at hand for the least fault or slip, or sinful
thought that the soul is guilty of. In many things the best offend; but if a Christian loseth
his tenderness, if he says he has his repentance to seek, his heart is grown hard--has lost
that spirit, that kind spirit of repentance, it was wont to have. Thus it was with the Corinthians;
they were decayed, and lost their tenderness; wherefore their sin--yea, great sins--remained
unrepented of (2 Cor 12:20).

Fourth. A tender heart is for receiving often its communion with God, when he that is hardened,
though the seed of grace is in him, will be content to eat, drink, sleep, wake, and go days
without number without him (Isa 17:10; Jer 2:32).

Fifth. A tender heart is a wakeful, watchful heart. It watches against sin in the soul, sin
in the family, sin in the calling, sin in spiritual duties and performances, &c. It watches
against Satan, against the world, against the flesh, &c. But now, when the heart is not tender,
there is sleepiness, unwatchfulness, idleness, a suffering the heart, the family, and calling
to be much defiled, spotted, and blemished with sin; for a hard heart departs from God, and
turns aside in all these things.

Sixth. A tender heart will deny itself, and that in lawful things, and will forbear even that
which may be done--for some Jew, or Gentile, or the church of God, or any member of it, should
be offended, or made weak thereby; whereas the Christian that is not tender, that has lost
his tenderness, is so far off of denying himself in lawful things, that he will even adventure
to meddle in things utterly forbidden, whoever is offended, grieved, or made weak thereby.
For an instance of this, we need go no further than to the man in the text, who, while he was
tender, trembled at little things; but when his heart was hardened, he could take Bathsheba
to satisfy his lust, and kill her husband to cover his wickedness.

Seventh. A tender heart--I mean, the heart kept tender--preserves from many a blow, lash, and
fatherly chastisement; because it shuns the causes, which is sin, of the scourging hand of
God. 'With the pure thou wilt show thyself pure, but with the froward thou wilt shew thyself
unsavoury' (2 Sam 22:27; Psa 18:25-27).

Many a needless rebuke and wound doth happen to the saints of God through their unwise behaviour.
When I say needless, I mean they are not necessary, but to reclaim us from our vanities; for
we should not feel the smart of them, were it not for our follies. Hence the afflicted is called
a fool, because his folly brings his affliction upon him. 'Fools,' says David, 'because of
their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted' (Psa 107:17). And therefore
it is, as was said before, that he call his sin his foolishness. 'If his children transgress
my laws, then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes'
(Psa 89:30-32).

[How to keep the heart tender.]

QUEST. But what should a Christian do, when God has broke his heart, to keep it tender?

ANSW. To this I will speak briefly. And, first, give you several cautions; secondly, several
directions.

[First--Several cautions.]

1. Take heed that you choke not those convictions that at present do break your hearts, by
labouring to put those things out of your minds which were the cause of such convictions; but
rather nourish and cherish those things in a deep and sober remembrance of them. Think, therefore,
with thyself thus, What was it that at first did wound my heart? And let that still be there,
until, by the grace of God, and the redeeming blood of Christ, it is removed.

2. Shun vain company. The keeping of vain company has stifled many a conviction, killed many
a desire, and made many a soul fall into hell, that once was hot in looking after heaven. A
companion that is not profitable to the soul, is hurtful.

3. Take heed of idle talk, that thou neither hear nor join with it. 'Go from the presence of
a foolish man, when thou perceivest not in him the lips of knowledge' (Prov 14:7). 'Evil communications
corrupt good manners. And a fool's lips are the snare of his soul.' Wherefore take heed of
these things (Prov 18:7; 1 Cor 15:33).

4. Beware of the least motion to sin, that it be not countenanced, lest the countenancing of
that makes way for a bigger.[14] David's eye took his heart, and so his heart nourishing the
thought, made way for the woman's company, the act of adultery, and bloody murder. Take heed,
therefore, brethren, 'lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin' (Heb 3:12,13).
And remember, that he that will rend the block, puts the thin end of the wedge first thereto,
and so, by driving, does his work.

5. Take heed of evil examples among the godly; learn of no man to do that which the word of
God forbids. Sometimes Satan makes use of a good man's bad ways, to spoil and harden the heart
of them that come after. Peter's false doing had like to have spoiled Barnabas, yea, and several
others more. Wherefore take heed of men, of good men's ways, and measure both theirs and thine
own by no other rule but the holy Word of God (Gal 2:11-13).

6. Take heed of unbelief, or atheistical thoughts; make no question of the truth and reality
of heavenly things: for know unbelief is the worst of evils; nor can the heart be tender that
nourisheth or gives place unto it. 'Take heed, therefore, lest there be in any of you an evil
heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God' (Heb 3:12). These cautions are necessary
to be observed with all diligence, of all them that would, when their heart is made tender,
keep it so. And now to come,

[Second]--to the Directions.

1. Labour after a deep knowledge of God to keep it warm upon thy heart; knowledge of his presence,
that is everywhere. (1.) Knowledge of his piercing eye, that it runneth to and fro through
the earth, beholding in every place the evil and the good; that his eyes behold, and his eyelids
try the children of men (Prov 15:3). (2.) The knowledge of his power, that he is able to turn
and dissolve heaven and earth into dust and ashes; and that they are in his hand but as a scroll
or vesture (Heb 1:11,12). (3.) The knowledge of his justice, that the rebukes of it are as
devouring fire (Heb 12:19). (4.) The knowledge of his faithfulness, in fulfilling promises
to them to whom they are made, and of his threatenings on the impenitent (Matt 5:18, 24:35;
Mark 13:31).

2. Labour to get and keep a deep sense of sin in its evil nature, and in its soul-destroying
effects upon thy heart; be persuaded, that it is the only enemy of God, and that none hate,
or are hated of God, but through that. (1.) Remember it turned angels into devils, thrust them
down from heaven to hell. (2.) That it is the chain in which they are held and bound over to
judgment (2 Peter 2:4; Jude 6). (3.) That it was for that that Adam was turned out of paradise;
that for which the old world was drowned; that for which Sodom and Gomorrah was burned with
fire from heaven; and that which cost Christ his blood to redeem thee from the curse it has
brought upon thee; and that, if anything, will keep thee out of heaven for ever and ever. (4.)
Consider the pains of hell. Christ makes use of that as an argument to keep the heart tender;
yea, to that end repeats and repeats, and repeats, both the nature and durableness of the burning
flame thereof, and of the gnawing of the neverdying worm that dwells there (Mark 9:43-48).

3. Consider of death, both as to the certainty of thy dying, and uncertainty of the time when.
We must die, we must needs die; our days are determined--the number of our months are with
God, though not with us; nor can we pass them, would we, had we them, give a thousand worlds
to do it (2 Sam 14:14; Job 7:1, 14:1-5). 'It is appointed unto men once to die, but after this
the judgment' (Heb 9;27).

4. Consider also of the certainty and terribleness of the day of judgment, when Christ shall
sit upon his great white throne, when the dead shall, by the sound of the trump of God, be
raised up; when the elements, with heaven and earth, shall be on a burning flame; when Christ
shall separate men one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats; when
the books shall be opened, the witnesses produced, and every man be judged according to his
works; when heaven's gate shall stand open to them that shall be saved, and the jaws of hell
stand gaping for them that shall be damned (Acts 5:30-31, 10:42; Matt 25:31,32,34,4; Rev 2:11;
1 Cor 15:51; Rev 20:12,15; 2 Peter 3:7,10,12; Rom 2:2,15,16; Rev 22:12).

5. Consider, Christ Jesus did use no means to harden his heart against doing and suffering
those sorrows which were necessary for the redemption of thy soul. No; though he could have
hardened his heart against thee in the way of justice and righteousness, because thou hadst
sinned against him, he rather awakened himself, and put on all pity, bowels, and compassion;
yea, tender mercies, and did it. In his love and in his pity he saved us. His tender mercies
from on high hath visited us. He loved us, and gave himself for us. Learn, then, of Christ,
to be tender of thyself, and to endeavour to keep thy heart tender to God-ward, and to the
salvation of thy soul. But to draw to a conclusion.

VII. THE USE.

Let us now, then, make some use of this doctrine. As,

FIRST USE. From the truth of the matter, namely, that the man who is truly come to God has
had his heart broken--his heart broken in order to his coming to him. And this shows us what
to judge of the league that is between sin and the soul, to wit, that it is so firm, so strong,
so inviolable, as that nothing can break, disannul, or make it void, unless the heart be broken
for it. It was so with David, yea, his new league with it could not be broken until his heart
was broken.

It is amazing to consider what hold sin has on some men's souls, spirits, will, and affections.
It is to them better than heaven, better than God--than the soul, ay, than salvation; as is
evident, because, though all these are offered them upon this condition, if they will but leave
their sins, yet they will choose rather to abide in them, to stand and fall by them. How sayest
thou, sinner? Is not this a truth? How many times hast thou had heaven and salvation offered
to thee freely, wouldst thou but break thy league with this great enemy of God? Of God, do
I say; if thou wouldst but break this league with this great enemy of thy soul? but couldst
never yet be brought unto it; no, neither by threatening nor by promise couldst thou ever yet
be brought unto it.

It is said of Ahab he sold himself to work wickedness: and in another place, yea, 'for your
iniquities have ye sold yourselves' (1 Kings 21:25; Isa 50:1). But what is this iniquity? Why,
a thing of nought; nay, worse than nought a thousand times; but because nought is as we say
nought, therefore it goes under that term, where God saith again to the people, 'Ye have sold
yourselves for nought' (Isa 52:3). But, I say, what an amazing thing is this, that a rational
creature should make no better a bargain; that one that is so wise in all terrene things, should
be such a fool in the thing that is most weighty? And yet such a fool he is, and he tells every
one that goes by the way that he is such an one, because he will not break his league with
sin until his heart is broken for it. Men love darkness rather than light. Ay, they make it
manifest they love it, since so great a proffer will not prevail with them to leave it.

SECOND USE. Is this a truth, that the man that truly comes to God in order thereto has had
his heart broken? then this shows us a reason why some men's hearts are broken; even a reason
why God breaks some men's hearts for sin; namely, because he would not have them die in it,
but rather come to God that they might be saved? Behold, therefore, in this how God resolved
as to the saving of some men's souls! He will have them, he will save them, he will break their
hearts, but he will save them; he will kill them, that they may live; he will wound them, that
he may heal them. And it seems by our discourse that now there is no way left but this; fair
means, as we say, will not do; good words, a glorious gospel, entreatings, beseeching with
blood and tears, will not do. Men are resolved to put God to the utmost of it; if he will have
them he must fetch them, follow them, catch them, lame them; yea, break their bones, or else
he shall not save them.

Some men think an invitation, an outward call, a rational discourse, will do; but they are
much deceived, there must a power, an exceeding great and mighty power, attend the Word, or
it worketh not effectually to the salvation of the soul. I know these things are enough to
leave men without excuse, but yet they are not enough to bring men home to God. Sin has hold
of them, they have sold themselves to it; the power of the devil has hold of them, they are
his captives at his will; yea, and more than all this, their will is one with sin, and with
the devil, to be held captive thereby: and if God gives not contrition, repentance, or a broken
heart, for sin, there will not be no not so much as a mind in man to forsake this so horrible
a confederacy and plot against his soul (2 Tim 2:24,25).

Hence men are said to be drawn from these breasts, that come, or that are brought to him (Isa
26:9; John 6:44). Wherefore John might well say, 'Behold what manner of love the Father hath
bestowed upon us!' Here is cost bestowed, pains bestowed, labour bestowed, repentance bestowed;
yea, and an heart made sore, wounded, broken, and filled with pain and sorrow, in order to
the salvation of the soul.

THIRD USE. This then may teach us what estimation to set upon a broken heart. A broken heart
is such as God esteems, yea, as God counts better than all external service: a broken heart
is that which is in order to salvation, in order to thy coming to Christ for life. The world
know not what to make of it, nor what to say to one that has a broken heart, and therefore
do despise it, and count that man that carries it in his bosom a moping fool, a miserable wretch,
an undone soul: 'But a broken and a contrite spirit, O God, thou wilt not despise'; a broken
heart takes thine eye, thy heart: thou choosest it for thy companion, yea, has given thy Son
a charge to look well to such a man, and has promised him thy salvation, as has afore been proved.

Sinner, hast thou obtained a broken heart? has God bestowed a contrite spirit upon thee? He
has given thee what himself is pleased with; he has given thee a cabinet to hold his grace
in; he has given thee a heart that can heartily desire his salvation, an heart after his own
heart, that is, such as suits his mind. True, it is painful now, sorrowful now, penitent now,
grieved now; now it is broken, now it bleeds, now, now it sobs, now it sighs, now it mourns
and crieth unto God. Well, very well; all this is because he hath a mind to make thee laugh;
he has made thee sorry on earth that thou mightest rejoice in heaven. 'Blessed are they that
mourn, for they shall be comforted.--Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh' (Matt
5:4; Luke 6:21).

But, soul, be sure thou hast this broken heart. All hearts are not broken hearts, nor is every
heart that seems to have a wound, a heart that is truly broken. A man may be cut to, yet not
into the heart; a man may have another, yet not a broken heart (Acts 7:54; 1 Sam 10:9). We
know there is a difference betwixt a wound in the flesh and a wound in the spirit; yea, a man's
sin may be wounded, and yet his heart not broken: so was Pharaoh's, so was Saul's, so was Ahab's;
but they had none of them the mercy of a broken heart. Therefore, I say, take heed; every scratch
with a pin, every prick with a thorn, nay, every blow that God giveth with his Word upon the
heart of sinners, doth not therefore break them. God gave Ahab such a blow that he made him
stoop, fast, humble himself, gird himself with and lie in sackcloth, which was a great matter
for a king, and go softly, and yet he never had a broken heart (1 Kings 21:27,29). What shall
I say? Pharaoh and Saul confessed their sins, Judas repented himself of his doings, Esau sought
the blessing, and that carefully with tears, and yet none of these had a heart rightly broken,
or a spirit truly contrite; Pharaoh, Saul, and Judas, were Pharaoh, Saul, and Judas still;
Esau was Esau still; there was no gracious change, no thorough turn to God, no unfeigned parting
with their sins, no hearty flight for refuge, to lay hold on the hope of glory, though they
indeed had thus been touched (Exo 10:16; 1 Sam 26:21; Matt 27:3; Heb 12:14-17).

The consideration of these things call aloud to us to take heed, that we take not that for
a broken and a contrite spirit that will not go for one at the day of death and judgment. Wherefore,
seeking soul, let me advise thee, that thou mayest not be deceived as to this thing of so great
weight.

First. To go back towards the beginning of this book, and compare thyself with those six or
seven signs of a broken and contrite heart, which there I have, according to the Word of God,
given to thee for that end; and deal with thy soul impartially about them.

Second. Or, which may and will be great help to thee if thou shalt be sincere therein, namely,
to betake thyself to the search of the Word, especially where thou readest of the conversion
of men, and try if thy conversion be like, or has a good resemblance or oneness with theirs.
But in this have a care that thou dost not compare thyself with those good folk of whose conversion
thou readest not, or of the breaking of whose heart there is no mention made in Scripture;
for all that are recorded in the Scripture for saints have not their conversion, as to the
manner or nature of it, recorded in the Scripture.

Third. Or else, do thou consider truly of the true signs of repentance which are laid down
in Scripture; for that is the true effect of a broken heart, and of a wounded spirit. And for
this see Matthew 3:5,6; Luke 18:13, 19:8; Acts 2:37-40, &c., 16:29,30, 19:18,19; 2 Corinthians
7:8-11.

Fourth. Or else, take into consideration how God has said, they shall be in their spirits that
he intends to save. And for this read these scriptures: (1.) That in Jeremiah 31, 'They shall
come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them' &c. (v 9). And that thou mayest
do it fully, consider again, and do thou,

1. Remember that here is such a sense of sin, and of the irksomeness thereof, as maketh the
man not only to abhor that, but himself, because of that; this is worth the noting by thee.

2. Remember again that here is not only a self-abhorrence, but a sorrowful kind mourning unto
God, at the consideration that the soul by sin has affronted, contemned, disregarded, and set
at nought, both God and his holy Word.

3. Remember also that here are prayers and tears for mercy, with desires to be now out of love
with sin for ever, and to be in heart and soul firmly joined and knit unto God.

4. Remember also that this people here spoken of have all the way from Satan to God, from sin
to grace, from death to life, scattered with tears and prayers, with weeping and supplication;
they shall go weeping, and seeking the Lord their God.

5. Remember that these people, as strangers and pilgrims do, are not ashamed to ask the way
of those they meet with to Zion, or the heavenly country; whereby they confess their ignorance,
as became them, and their desire to know the way to life: yea, thereby they declare that there
is nothing in this world, under the sun, or this side heaven, that can satisfy the longings,
the desire, and cravings of a broken and a contrite spirit. Reader, be advised, and consider
of these things seriously, and compare thy soul with them, and with what else thou shalt find
here written for thy conviction and instruction.

FOURTH USE. If a broken heart and a contrite spirit be of such esteem with God, then this should
encourage them that have it to come to God with it. This, I say, is the great encouragement,
and in its place there is none but that; but there are other encouragements subordinate to
that, and a broken and a contrite spirit is one of them: this is evident from several places
of Scripture.

Wherefore, thou that canst carry a broken heart and a sorrowful spirit with thee, when thou
goest to God, tell him thy heart is wounded within thee, that thou hast sorrow in thy heart,
and art sorry for thy sins; but take heed of lying.[15] Confess also thy sins unto him, and
tell him they are continually before thee. David made an argument of these things, when he
went to God by prayer. Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid from
thee. My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light for mine eyes, it also is
gone from me. My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore': and so he goes on (Psa 38:1-4,
&c.).

These are the words, sighs, complaints, prayers, and arguments of a broken heart to God for
mercy; and so are they--'Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness; according
unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from
mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions; and my sin
is ever before me' (Psa 51:1-3).

God alloweth poor creatures that can, without lying, thus to plead and argue with him. 'I am
poor and sorrowful,' said the good man to him, 'let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high'
(Psa 69:29). Wherefore thou that hast a broken heart take courage, God bids thee take courage;
say therefore to thy soul, 'Why are thou cast down, O my soul?' as usually the broken-hearted
are. 'And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God.' 'I had fainted,' if I had not
been of good courage; therefore 'be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart' (Psa
42:11, 43:5, 27:12-14).

But alas! the broken-hearted are far off from this; they faint; they reckon themselves among
the dead; they think God will remember them no more: the thoughts of the greatness of God,
and his holiness, and their own sins and vilenesses, will certainly consume them. They feel
guilt and anguish of soul; they go mourning all the day long; their mouth is full of gravel
and gall, and they are made to drink draughts of wormwood and gall; so that he must be an artist
indeed at believing, who can come to God under his guilt and horror, and plead in faith that
the sacrifices of God are a broken heart, such as he had; and that 'a broken and a contrite
spirit God will not despise.'

FIFTH USE. If a broken heart, if a broken and contrite spirit, is of such esteem with God,
then why should some be, as they are, so afraid of a broken heart, and so shy of a contrite spirit?

I have observed that some men are as afraid of a broken heart, or that they for their sins
should have their hearts broken, as the dog is of the whip. O! they cannot away with such books,
with such sermons, with such preachers, or with such talk, as tends to make a man sensible
of, and to break his heart, and to make him contrite for his sins. Hence they heap to themselves
such teachers, get such books, love such company, and delight in such discourse, as rather
tends to harden than soften; to make desperate in, than sorrowful for their sin. They say to
such sermons, books, and preachers, as Amaziah said unto Amos, 'O thou seer, go, flee thee
away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there, but prophesy not again
any more at Bethel; for it is the king's chapel, and it is the king's court' (Amos 7:12,13).

But do these people know what they do? Yes, think they, for such preachers, such books, such
discourses tend to make one melancholy or mad; they make us that we cannot take pleasure in
ourselves, in our concerns, in our lives. But, O fool in grain![16] let me speak unto thee.
Is it a time to take pleasure, and to recreate thyself in anything, before thou hast mourned
and been sorry for thy sins? That mirth that is before repentance for sin will certainly end
in heaviness. Wherefore the wise man, putting both together, saith that mourning must be first.
What, an unconverted man, and laugh! Shouldst thou see one singing merry songs that is riding
up Holborn to Tyburn,[17] to be hanged for felony, wouldst thou not count him besides himself,
if not worse? and yet thus it is with him that is for mirth while he standeth condemned by
the Book of God for his trespasses. Man! man! thou hast cause to mourn; yea, thou must mourn
if ever thou art saved. Wherefore my advice is, that instead of shunning, thou covet both such
books, such preachers, and such discourses, as have a tendency to make a man sensible of, and
to break his heart for sin; and the reason is, because thou wilt never be as thou shouldst,
concerned about, nor seek the salvation of thine own soul, before thou hast a broken heart,
a broken and a contrite spirit. Wherefore be not afraid of a broken heart; be not shy of a
contrite spirit. It is one of the greatest mercies that God bestows upon a man or a woman.
The heart rightly broken at the sense of, and made truly contrite for transgression, is a certain
forerunner of salvation. This is evident from those six demonstrations which were laid down
to prove the point in hand, at first.

And for thy awakening in this matter, let me tell thee, and thou wilt find it so, thou must
have thy heart broken whether thou wilt or no. God is resolved to break ALL hearts for sin
some time or other. Can it be imagined, sin being what it is, and God what he is--to wit, a
revenger of disobedience--but that one time or other man must smart for sin? smart, I say,
either to repentance or to condemnation. He that mourns not now, while the door of mercy is
open, must mourn for sin when the door of mercy is shut.

Shall men despise God, break his law, contemn his threats, abuse his grace, yea, shut their
eyes when he says, See; and stop their ears when he says, Hear; and shall they so escape? No,
no, because he called, and they refused; he stretched out his hand, and they regarded it not;
therefore shall calamity come upon them, as upon one in travail; and they shall cry in their
destruction, and then God will laugh at their destruction, and mock when their fear cometh.
Then, saith he, 'they shall cry' (Prov 1:24-26). I have often observed that this threatening
is repeated at least seven times in the New Testament, saying, 'There shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth'; 'there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth' (Matt 8:12, 13:42,50, 22:13,
24:51, 25:30; Luke 13:28). There. Where? In hell, and at the bar of Christ's tribunal, when
he comes to judge the world, and shall have shut to the door to keep them out of glory, that
have here despised the offer of his grace, and overlooked the day of his patience. 'There shall
be wailing and gnashing of teeth.' They shall weep and wail for this.

There are but two scriptures that I shall use more, and then I shall draw towards a conclusion.
One is that in Proverbs, where Solomon is counselling of young men to beware of strange, that
is, of wanton, light, and ensnaring women.

The other scripture is that in Isaiah, where he says, 'Because when I called, ye did not answer;
when I spake, ye did not hear; but did evil before mine eyes, and did choose that wherein I
delighted not.

How many beholds are here! and every behold is not only a call to careless ones to consider,
but as a declaration from heaven that thus at last it shall be with all impenitent sinners;
that is, when others sing for joy in the kingdom of heaven, they, they shall sorrow in hell,
and howl for vexation of spirit there.

Wherefore, let me advise that you be not afraid of, but that you rather covet a broken heart,
and prize a contrite spirit; I say, covet it now, now the white flag is hung out, now the golden
sceptre of grace is held forth to you. Better mourn now God inclines to mercy and pardon, than
mourn when the door is quite shut up. And take notice, that this is not the first time that
I have given you this advice.

USE SIXTH. Lastly, If a broken heart be a thing of so great esteem with God as has been said,
and if duties cannot be rightly performed by a heart that has not been broken, then this shows
the vanity of those peoples' minds, and also the invalidity of their pretended Divine services,
who worship God with a heart that was never broken, and without a contrite spirit. It is certainly not less been when
the ten unverdrossensten eaters and drinkers can have only defeat. Also It was not lost on him
but he had become an even stronger and Reisiger youth. Of which he knew nothing, for he had
no one can, on which he would have to try it, even was no mirror in his room, which would have
it he can betray.

So when the five years to have class and had eaten through the bottom to the edge, and again
fall out should be on the earth, that his destiny would be fulfilled, fell it into a deep sleep,
and he dreamed a dream more manageable special than he had ever had. Namely, the old wise woman,
who always sat with him and told him stories and looked how blessed his Grandmother, he seemed very
sad and gebehrdete behaved as if they leave wanted to take from him, so she told him. And it
appeared to him as if her very ardently and with many tears over him, prayed and then took
him out of bed and washed him, as to Wash a small child until it was white as a swan, and as
if she then white shirt and put on a very elegant new coat and new shoes and socks, and then
disappeared. And he seemed very sad to be-ing in his heart. And this was really was not a
dream but it had been washed clean and dressed inside new from head to foot, and he had fallen
out in a dream from the mountains. He had But not noticed but overslept this miracle story.

Because
class Avenstaken to appear again on earth, I must tell how it the
five years when he lived in the mountains of pancakes, went to his
father's home.

It had gone there since his disappearance, nothing unusual, they lived, thank God yet all the
aging and the siblings, and his midnight ride up pancakes the only really extraordinary was
that the house suffered in such a long time had. It has long been mourning for him, especially
in the heart of his father, it is but do not realize, also believed in the honest old Valentin,
whom the mother about this because his stories had scolded a lot. It was but since that time
all the joy he yielded and no tale sounded more about his lips, and the old man who otherwise
was alert and joking, had become almost silent and morose. He had also made the home and the
service weggewollt, Peter, but in his good nature had not allowed and spoken: Valentin has
experienced so much suffering with us, he is now the bit of bread to eat with us until his death.
By the way, class was almost not spoken or whispered it softly, with most people and even his
mother thought the evil spirits Seyen left with him and the little boy will not come again in this
life. Only Valentine and Peter talked among themselves at times even by the boy, the love
they both so had had concealed and harbored the hope that he could come back but still good
times. The two also believed in the stories they told when they heard so much or tell. And lo!
their hopes deceived them not: for class really came back. Now, I must tell, as has been done.

Because miracles always happen to the most wonderful, so it came to pass that class just the same
Place where he lost once fallen into the mountains again in this world pancakes was. That could
happen but now no different from that mountain of pancakes, conversely, has, and that the whole world
with him has been reversed.

One of two things had to happen be, and because it was so, so it is called a miracle because a miracle
is what every man but know no one can understand it. In short, as a class woke up, he was not
in their soft beds but in the green grass, and saw his well-known book again and the high mountain,
which he had carried so many cattle, and the whole forest and the Field down there, and the
villages and their steeples before he came back like old friends, those five years lived in the
mountains of pancakes but it was like a dream, and it was him otherwise, as Sey passed only
one night between the evening, where his brothers and companions he ran, and this morning, where
he sang the larks of the world awake again. It was but a very nice spring day when he had eaten
by himself and out of the mountains fell.

Klas was not long in the grass and stared, but he soon went on and ran swift through the forest and
across the field level on his father's house. And he found when he joined the Office, joined
his parents and siblings and Valentin all standing around the table, the same the hands were folded
in prayer, because they wanted to have breakfast.

He has appeared among them. He was very tall and beautiful, almost half a head taller than Peter,
no small man was, and he had nice new clothes. And that's why they all looked up and bowed to
him, for they thought, that he was a stranger. But he was father and mother and sisters and brothers
around the neck and hugged and kissed her and said, I'm Klas and came back from the mountains
of pancakes, and even the old Valentin, his very dear friend, he kissed warmly. And they recognized
him again on some characters, and very astonished and rejoiced that he has become so big and
handsome.

But when the first surprise was over, because everyone wanted to know how he had succeeded
him was running up and the whole village, while in the five years and three months he was away
that class Avenstaken recipients considered, and the first word has
always been: Well dear class, tell us, what happened? and how it looks
in the mountains of pancakes?

He did not know them but to say much, but it came out all dark like dreams and ghost stories,
so that some see Staring him with frightened eyes, be it as not safe with him and when drive evil
spirits in him their game, others whispered well here and there: the lying Klas He was not in
the pancake mountain, he ran from his parents and is now returned, and the wily Schulze invented
the whole story, that his defeat cover up. Most, however, had faith to the adventure and found
very large Pleasure in the narrative, as his room was plastered with roasts, cakes and fruits,
and how the milk and wine Born Born always been in the river: and they probably felt as she saw
his strong, beautiful limbs and his rosy cheeks and sparkling Eyes probably indicates that he
had not starved of time. His mother was the first to asked him full of impatience to the bags of
gold ducats, and whether he brought any have? When he answered, now that the promised Valentin
would have to have in history because of gold and silver he had seen in the mountains of pancakes
no Proebchen because kopfschuettelte she said, and he had the five years just as well stay
at home and the husbandry increase able to eat at her table, for what it helps him now that
he pheasants and woodcock ate and sipped the delicious wine have? without money, he may not
only not imagine, that a man can be king, what did the silly Valentin vorgefabelt him. For
Valentin was on occasion always be Seitenhiebchen off with. And I will now the truth say, it is
this: The first days were the people in the village beside himself about class and Peters stormed home almost
surprised the first few weeks they are very much the first few months they talked much about it,
and after a year the story was again the most forgotten. But still much of the story said, were
the young girls, class because they liked beyond measure, and where they could tell, they called almost
unanimously: Klas Avenstaken is still the most beautiful boy in the village.

Klas was in his eighteenth year and found himself on the world as he knew well. He went briskly
to work, because that he had with tendons and bones, and went his Father plow and sow, to break
rocks and cut wood, mow grass and grain, and that all his work quietly and humbly and managed
as much as three others. And the father had always very kind and even the old Valentin was happy
in it. The mother was happy The beautiful youth and figure, what can not be mothers and wives, and
smiled often, when he praised the neighbors because of his handsome,
but on the whole, it was her but not to sense and her own eyes and
still too simple and not so clever and skilful, than their other children.

And could not really many words about class, yes, he was much become silent, because he was
a boy, and he had in the five years that he in the Mountains sit, nothing but learned a forgotten
almost everything he out of school had brought, so that he knew nothing more than his single
short little prayer. But Greth knew the reason, with nothing to say to him: he was obedient and
humble in all Work went diligently with other Christians to the church and gave all the holy
days and festivals politely and with andaechtiglich, and had at jedermaenniglich love and a good
rumor. The only thing she blamed on him and could find fault with the law was that evening
and he nightly except much of the house was. For that he could not leave, especially on Sundays
and holidays. Just as the sun went down, he had to walk in the woods and fields, and often
visited He then also the mountain where he had had his adventures, and sat under the green beech
and dreamed the dreams of the funniest pancake mountain again, and was habitually silent and
introverted at home, as he expected. If Greth him now about it not switching, so it had to pay
for the Peter, when he praised the class. She muttered then probably for himself: yes what
is your class? what has he gefrommt the whole ride up, which IF THE ABOVE makes a lot of shouting?
He did not become rich, not really wiser, our bacon bread and it could've just so strong, and he
would have us still make money to do so. He has come back to the stupid and dumb thick head,
which as he ran away. Your classes , the class remained. Such talk had to swallow often hear and
Peter, and fretted and could not say a word to say. But in his heart there in his own eyes things
differently and he and Valentine did take the thought of the class would have to have a right
Bidermann be.

So were again two and a half years have passed and class was on legs and shoulders more than ever
and where possible has become even more beautiful, and filled his twentieth year. As came to
pass, what should go in so he herauskaeme from the smock and reached the highest esteem, what God
had made him be born.

He was with his father went into the forest to timber felling. They cut at two different Pages
few hundred yards of each other so that they could only hear the sound of their axes and nothing
more. Mogten they have probably worked a few hours, as a class with one Times from the spot here,
where Peter struck a plaintive groan heard.

He let his work and ran spore d'état, and saw four men in green skirts his father hands the tied
behind his back and had driven him away with blows. Then he became angry, jumped added, the
gang broke loose and pushed away the men and asked them from which the power they Thaeter. They answered
him, he came in good hour, and it will soon happen the same; because
they cut both Seyen timber thieves, and not to their base but the
gracious Sey Mr Forest.

There were these four hunters of the Count who owned the land, yet the Forest, where Peter and
felled timber class, not the forest but a separate count of Almend Duemmelshusen village. And they
exchanged a word with each other much, and when the hunters but wanted to retain were under
the old back and remove themselves from the class, then came the anger over him and he cried
with a loud voice doer degrees! and took the ax around and cut it all four down, nor any sign of
life remained in them. His father, however, comforted ies of the scolding, and took him home
where he told everyone openly what between him and the hunters of the Count had gone in the
woods.

It was him and his father but did not believe so, but it was said that he had violently Jaeger
attacked and like it. And the Count sent many hundred men with spears and rods Duemmelshusen
after that they caught the class and into jails leads. Klas and escaped not, though he would have
been able, and refused and did not resist, but let himself quiet walk leader. For he said to himself,
the authorities should be subject unto obedience and be, and God right and innocence will probably
bring to light.

And when he came to town, where the Duke lived, they took him and
put him hand and foot in iron, such as a malefactor, and cast him
into a dark prison, where neither sun nor Moon shone, and kept a strict
court over him and condemned him to death, than that of the country's
peace and broken-degree murder would have committed.

And immediately left the Count, who was about the death of his Jaeger very angry, a new build from
the gallows Gates of the city of fifty cubits high, what should Klas Avenstaken be hanged.
And it were thousands of people from all ends up running the day when he will be hanged should,
for his fame was sounded far because of its strength and beauty, also had the people, the tale
of the pancake mountains again and tells it with many new Wonders increased.

And as the sun rose the morning, where classes were to die as a poor sinner, he was from the city
gates led out, wearing his heavy chains as easily as if they were Straws have been, and strode
cheerfully and firm view, therefore, for he was right devoutly prayed and comforted in God
because he is not serious and voluntary debt was aware. And the young man seems so nice to
people than ever, and all eyes went in tears over the deaths of such a beautiful young blood
should, especially lamented The women and young women, whose heart is compassionate by nature,
and some probably thought: could you solve it from the gallows, you avail themselves of it
like a man and were not up. But Klas was led to the gallows and the priest with the cross in his
hand around him stood up and spoke to him and sang spiritual songs and the hangman the rope ladder
and rightly made, as was the crying of a loud sobbing and crying
and crying all around the High Court.

Among others, a beautiful young woman was there, which is characterized by the pile and urged
the class had just faced, so that she could look him in the face. This cried so loud that
everyone heard it and he could hear it too: O would do this but now the soldiers and executioners,
as Samson the Philistines and his gang was broken! And Klas was the story of Samson from school
again, and he thought, can try you know it, whether it would be God's will. And he gathered
up his limbs and stretched his Tendons and cried in his wrath doer degrees! and jumped the
iron chains as if they were pipe parts been, and he stormed out of the executioners and their henchmen
and all the people and threw left and right everything down with the mighty fists. And the people
cheered and shouted: degree doer, Klas! Klas and ran like a deer, who plays with his legs
out over the field in the forest, and chased him on foot and on horseback, could not catch him.
The Executioner but enraged that they had so lost their prey, attacked the beautiful young
woman the simson's request, had said, and thought they could catch it now. But the people cried
out against it and the priests they want, as the woman it's only from have spoken of human compassion
to a poor sinner, and the count based on the roar and tumult had come because Klasen escape,
ordered that the woman were released, and so it happened. There was a tremendous jubilation and
rejoicing among all the people, that class was so escaped, because they believed it would start
again, they do not. Also caught him no more, who were chased him, I do not think that they had
had a particularly big desire to get down to it. For they had heard, as he had done those four
hunters, and they had just seen what his bones and Vermogten and tendons as thugs and bullies
and all the people that stood in his way, under his Hingestuerzt fists. Also in Duemmelshusen
soon they heard what the gallows was done, and rejoiced, and the aging and siblings were directed
back to from misery and shame, and Peter clasped hands and prayed: "God you are just, Klas
is not a murderer, he has for me and resisted only unjust violence.

As a class had come into the forest where no roads were open, but he no longer ran Jaeger went
quietly and heard his pursuers and quiet rage around him. He had already a stout gnarled branch
of a broken supple oak and trimmed, and thought, "Let them come, ten and twenty of them I do
not do it, if God does not is against me. They made loud noises and roars and getuemmelten
but with huge dogs and horses through the forest, but nobody joined him, and he went his way, until
night fell. Then he took a hostel Koehler. He went on a day when he arrived on the Blach field
hinstreicht between the Weser and Elbe rivers to the sea, and he thought, this must Do you take
more care, because they can bring in crowds behind you here. Therefore, He struck off the
beaten track a lonely through the woods and swamps, and returned with a mostly People in pastoral,
Koehler and litter in the woods. And when the fifth day came, as did he for the first time
in his life, the sea and surprised by the violence and beauty, and fell on his face and prayed
and thanked God that he had helped him before. This was known he was still not know what to make
of him the sea.

Class had reached the Elbe River in the area where she soon falls into the sea and very wide, and
along the shore went to their ships, which he saw in the distance. It was just the time of low
tide and the beach at all flat.
 Their lives were in their hands; in the midst of imminent danger they boldly avowed
the truth, and set us a noble example. Their intercourse with heaven was doubly sweet from
the uncertainty of liberty and life. For them to live was Christ, and therefore they well knew
the gain of dying. In proportion as temporal blessings were eminently doubtful, so spiritual
and eternal benefits were precious.

This treatise was one of those ten excellent manuscripts found already prepared for the press,
after the unexpected decease of its pious author. It bears the marks of having been composed,
and perhaps preached, towards the end of his pilgrimage. Had his valuable life been spared
a few months longer, this work would, very probably, have been enlarged, and the sub-divisions
somewhat improved. The principal heads are now inserted as separate lines, to assist the reader
in referring to its several parts; and notes are added to explain old words and customs, and,
in some cases, to point out a few of the beautiful and striking passages with which it abounds.
Many of these ought to be indelibly impressed upon our minds. 'The words of the Lord are pure
words; as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times' (Psa 12:6). The question
naturally arises--What is this 'furnace of earth' in which the Lord's words are purified? Seven
being the number of perfection, conveys the idea that it will be in the furnace until it appears
perfectly refined. Bunyan considers that these earthen furnaces are the bodies of the saints.
In the trials, troubles, and persecutions to which they are subjected, the Word bears them
up triumphantly, so that the purity and excellency of the holy oracles conspicuously appears,
like the trial of faith mentioned by Peter (1 Peter 1:7). Dr. Gill considers that these crucibles
mean Christ and his ministers; while Bunyan, with his enlarged mind, identifies them with the
whole of Christ's followers. Some of these crucibles prove not to be genuine, and perish in
the using, not being able to abide the fire. Such was the case with one of Mr. Bunyan's friends.
John Childs, who, for fear of persecution, conformed, became horror-stricken for the denial
of his Master, and notorious for having destroyed himself.

In this treatise it is most affectionately impressed upon us to heap up treasures that will
go with us into the unseen world, as of greater importance than those things which perish with
the using. 'A Christian, and spend thy time, thy strength, and parts,' for that which maketh
to itself wings and fleeth away! 'Remember thou art a man of another world, a subject of a
more noble kingdom--that of God, and of heaven. Make not heavenly things stoop to the world;
but hoist up thy mind to the things that are above, and practically hold forth before all the
world the blessed word of life.' If death is the king of terrors to fallen humanity, still
there are truths abounding with consolation, that when the Christian departs, the angels are
ready, as in the case of Lazarus, to convey the happy spirit to Abraham's bosom; the struggle
is short, and then comes the reward. In this world we must have tribulation; but in heaven
white robes, the palm of victory, and the conqueror's crown, await the saints. Paul heard a
voice which raised his soul above the fears of death, and gave him a desire to depart; its
melodious sound invited him home--it was the voice of eternal truth, saying, 'Blessed are the
dead which die in the Lord; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and
their works do follow them.'

GEO. OFFOR.

PAUL'S DEPARTURE AND CROWN.

'For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. But before I come
to the words themselves, as they are a relation of Paul's case, I shall take notice of something
from them as they depend upon the words going before, being a vehement exhortation to Timothy
to be constant and faithful in his work; which, in brief, may be summed up in these particulars:
1st, A solemn binding charge before God and Jesus Christ our Lord, that he be constant in preaching
the Word, whether in or out of season, reproving, rebuking, and exhorting with all long-suffering
and doctrine; and that because of that ungodly spirit that would possess professors after he
was dead; for the time will come, saith he, that they will not endure sound doctrine, neither
sound reproof, nor sound trial of their state and condition by the Word, but after their own
lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears,--the plague that once God
threatened to rebellious Israel (Deut 28:27)--and be turned unto fables. The ministers of the
gospel have each of them all that authority that belongs to their calling and office, and need
not to stay for power from men to put the laws of Christ in his church into due and full execution
(Titus 2:15). Therefore he adds, 'Watch thou in all things, endure afflictions,' if thou shouldst
be opposed in thy work, 'do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry' (2
Tim 4:5).[1] How our time-serving and self-saving ministers will salve their conscience from
the stroke that God's Word will one day give them, and how they will stand before the judgment-seat
to render an account of this their doings, let them see to it; surely God will require it of
their hand!

But, O Timothy, do thou be diligent, do thou watch in all things, do thou endure affliction,
do thou the work of an evangelist, make thou full proof of thy ministry, 'for I am not ready
to be offered,' &c. The words, then, of my text are a reason of this exhortation to Timothy,
that he should continue watchful, and abide faithful in his calling. 'For I am now ready to
be offered'; that is, to be put to death for the gospel.

Hence then learn two things,

First, That the murders and outrage that our brethren suffer at the hands of wicked men should
not discourage those that live, from a full and faithful performance of their duty to God and
man, whatever may be the consequence thereof. Or thus, when we see our brethren before us fall
to the earth by death, through the violence of the enemies of God, for their holy and Christian
profession, we should covet to make good their ground against them, though our turn should
be the next. We should valiantly do in this matter, as is the custom of soldiers in war; take
great care that the ground be maintained, and the front kept full and complete. 'Thou, therefore,'
saith Paul, 'endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ' (2 Tim 2:3). And in another
place, We should not be moved by these afflictions, but endure by resisting even unto blood
(1 Thess 3:3). Wherefore Paul saith again, 'Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony
of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner; but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel,
according to the power of God' (2 Tim 1:8). Thus let the spirit of Moses rest upon Joshua (Num
27:20), and the spirit of Elijah rest upon Elisha (2 Kings 2:15). Stand up, therefore, like
valiant worthies, as the ministers of my God, and fly not every man to his own, while the cause,
and ways, and brethren of our Lord are buffeted and condemned by the world. And remember, that
those that keep the charge of the Lord when most go a-whoring from under their God, they, when
he turns the captivity of his people, shall be counted worthy to come nigh unto him, 'to offer
the fat and the blood, saith the Lord God.' But for the rest, though they may yet stand before
the people, because they stood before them in a way of idolatry, yet it shall not be to their
honour, nor to their comfort; but to their shame, as the same scripture saith (Eze 44:10-16).

1. Let this therefore smite with conviction those that, in this day of Jacob's trouble, have
been false with God, his cause, and people: I say, those first and especially as the chief
ringleaders of this cowardliness, who have done it against light, profession, and resolutions.
Behold, thou hast sinned against the Lord, and be sure thy sins will find thee out; and though
thou mayest now have as a judgment of God upon thee, thy right eye darkened that thou mayest
not see, yet awakening time will overtake thee, and that too between the straits, when he will
show thee, to the great confusion of thy face, and the amazement of them that behold thee,
how great an affront he counts it to be left by thee, in a day when his truth is cast down
to the ground (Rom 11:10). I have often thought of that prophet that went down from Judah to
Bethel, to prophesy against the idolatry that was there set up by the King; who, because he
kept not the commandment of God, but did eat and drink in that place, at the persuasion of
a lying prophet, was met at last by a lion, who slew him there in the way, where his carcase
was made a spectacle of God to passengers (1 Kings 13). If thou be spiritual, judge what I
say; and think not to be one of that number that shall have the harps of God, when God appears
for Zion, and that shall sing that song of Moses, and also the song of the Lamb; for that is
only for those who have fought the godly fight, and gotten the victory over the beast, his
image, mark, number, and name.

2. Let this also be an awe to thee, who hast hankerings to do as the other: Beware, and remember
Judas, and the end God brought upon him; he will not always bear such things; these times have
showed us already that he beholds them with great dislike; why should thou hang up in chains
as a terror to all that know thee? And never object that some have done it, and yet are at
peace in their souls; for peace in a sinful course is one of the greatest of curses. And 'the
man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the
dead' (Prov 21:6).

[Second.] The Second thing to be learned from these words, as they have a relation to them
going before, is encouragement to those that are yet in the storm; and that from three great
arguments.

1. Paul's peace and comfort now at the time of his death, which he signifieth to Timothy by
these three expressions, 'I have fought a good fight--I have finished my course--I have kept
the faith.'

2. By the blessed reward he should have for his labour from Christ in another world, together
with all those that love the appearing of the Lord, at 'that great and notable day.'

3. That now his last act should not be inferior to any act he did for God, while he was alive
and preached in the world; for his body should now be an offering, a sacrifice well-pleasing
to God. To all which I shall speak something in my discourse upon these words; and, therefore,
to come to them:

'I AM NOW READY TO BE OFFERED.'

In these words we have to inquire into two things. FIRST. What it is to be 'offered.' SECOND.
What it is to be 'ready to be offered up.' 'I am now ready to be offered.'

[WHAT IT IS TO BE OFFERED.]

FIRST. For the first of these. Paul, by saying he was 'to be offered,' alludeth to some of
the sacrifices that of old were under the law; and thereby signifieth to Timothy that his death
and martyrdom for the gospel should be both sweet in the nostrils of God, and of great profit
to his church in this world; for so were the sacrifices of old. Paul, therefore, lifts his
eyes up higher than simply to look upon death, as it is the common fate of men; and he had
good reason to do it, for his death was violent; it was also for Christ, and for his church
and truth; and it is usual with Paul thus to set out the suffering of the saints, which they
undergo for the name and testimony of Jesus. Yea, he will have our prayers a sacrifice; our
praises, thanksgiving, and mortification, sacrifices; almsdeed, and the offering up of the
Gentiles, sacrifices, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost; and here his death also must be for
a sacrifice, and an acceptable offering to God (Heb 13:15,16; Rom 12:1,2, 15:16). Of which
sacrifices, it seems by Paul, the death of a Christian for Jesus' sake must needs be counted
one. Besides, Paul further insinuates this by some other sentences in his epistles; as by that
in the epistle to the Colossians, where he saith, 'I now rejoice in my sufferings for you,
and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh, for his body's sake,
which is the church' (Col 1:24). Not by way of merit, for so Christ alone, and that by once
being offered himself, hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified (Heb 10:10-14). But
his meaning is, that as Christ was offered in sacrifice for his church as a Saviour, so Paul
would offer himself as a sacrifice for Christ's church, as a saint, as a minister, and one
that was counted faithful. 'Yea,' saith he, 'and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service
of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all' (Phil 2:17). This, then, teacheth us several
things worthy our consideration.

First. That the blood of the saints, that they lose for his name, is a sweet savour to God.
And so saith the Holy Ghost, 'Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints'
(Psa 116:15). And again, 'He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence, and precious
shall their blood be in his sight' (Psa 72:14).

Second. Those that suffer for Christ are of great benefit to his church, as the sacrifices
of old were confirming and strengthening to Israel; wherefore Paul saith, his bonds encouraged
his brethren, and made them much more bold in the way of God to speak his word without fear
(Phil 1:14).

Third. The sufferings, or offering of the saints in sacrifice, it is of great use and advantage
to the gospel; of use, I say, many ways. (1.) The blood of the saints defends it; (2.) confirmeth
it; and (3.) redeemeth that thereof that hath been lost in antichristian darkness.

1. They do thereby defend and preserve it from those that would take it from us, or from those
that would impose another upon us. 'I am set,' saith Paul, 'for the defence of the gospel,'
and my sufferings have fallen out for the furtherance of it (Phil 1:17). That is, it hath not
only continued to hold its ground, but hath also got more by my contentions, sufferings, and
hazards for it.

2. It confirms it; and this is part of the meaning of Paul in those large relations of his
sufferings for Christ, saying, 'Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool, I am more--in
prisons more frequent,' &c.; as he saith again, and these things 'I do for the gospel's sake.'
And again, That the truth of the 'gospel might be continued with you.' So again, 'I suffer,'
saith he, in the gospel 'as an evil-doer even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound;
yea,' saith he, 'therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake' (2 Tim 2:9,10). That is,
that the gospel may be preserved entire, that the souls that are yet unborn may have the benefit
of it, with eternal glory.

3. The sufferings of the saints are of a redeeming virtue; for, by their patient enduring and
losing their blood for the word, they recover the truths of God that have been buried in Antichristian
rubbish, from that soil and slur that thereby hath for a long time cleaved unto them; wherefore
it is said, They overcame him, the beast, 'by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their
testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death' (Rev 12:11). 

And the servant was flying like the wind on his horse there because he loved his good master
about everything. And in the horrified priest Ginger was not delaying, as he called Mr. Fritz
Rotermund the best Christians, and the most diligent among his parishioners Kirchengaenger Nobles.
And a half hours after the servant trip and found both were in Boldewitz the old man on the bed
pale and wan as death, and his wife and children to him which he had joined his wounds. But
he, as the pastor entered the room, has waved all go out, so he prayed to the spiritual master
and the exit prepared.

And as they become alone, he has confessed everything and told the pastor and the Man so dismayed
that he can hardly pray. Soon, however, the pious man again taken and the Bible is taken and
the mortally wounded knight hands taken, and about him pray that the merciful heaven have mercy
on the repentant sinner and trembling may. And Heaven has stooped to a gracious prayer, and Fritz
has a loud voice and longing heart the words of the clergyman nachgesprochen. And now he has
for the first time in many years felt very comforted and proclaimed loudly: "Blessed and praised
God and Jesus Christ for these wounds, "and the pastor is cheerful surprised this exclamation, and
about the knight's face brightened and enlightened, and sometimes even more more and much happier
than the Lord from above the audible and visible signs of grace given. For no sooner had Fritz
made this merry cry of the redeemed heart, as the disastrous carbuncle suddenly out of the pocket
of the gentleman went out as a shining Hinzischte flash through the air, and then as a jumping
ball of fire against the furnace soared, and sounds! Ding! per second in millions of pieces vanished,
like a pile of sand blowing apart, so that the track did not see him. And Fritz is happy again
exclaimed: "My God and my Saviour, how merciful you are And your sahet and hearken well! Mr.
Pastor, as the devil in anything and zerklungen zerflogen into dust? "And he folded fervor
in the hands and gave thanks and prayed, and thanked the pastor and prayed with him and said,
"Then you are gracious, merciful God and Sustainer of all things, and container, and deliver
and refresh the repentant sinner! "

And among them was great joy, and they embraced in joy as the angels
Embrace the sky, and Fritz said: "My departure is at hand, and comes,
Pastor, Bring me and my wife and children.

"And the pastor has brought them, and Fritz, the hands them down and they kissed and blessed
for the last time, and is then instantaneously with Hope and joy gone home. Because the blood
was drained from his veins and the air to the earthly life from his soul.

The snake king.

King snake lived on a remote island in the Baltic Sea, the gene is
Denmark, and had there castle.

This castle was once again but in a small island in a big Island, put the little boxes like Kraemer
is in the large ones. The islets lay in a large inland lake. As had snake king in his castle
in a hill Earth built, and it was very beautiful in it and sparkled and glittered with silver
and Gold and precious stones and had the allerpraechtigsten apartments. Inside it sat snake
Koenig transformed a poor prince, waiting for his salvation. But he was transformed because
of his vanity. For he was a beautiful prince, and had many beautiful princesses and enticed queens
and empresses, with its beauty, but not loved it all leave fickle heart. Therefore, he had
been transformed as a punishment, so He also tried to find what it is not love, and he may well now as
the serpent king have to crawl to the Last Day. Namely, because he cheated so many poor princesses
has, who left him and walked him, the penalty is taken, and the word is spoken to him, Sey
and crawl as the snake king snake king of earth and eat and suck poison out of roots and herbs and
Sey an abomination to men and animals Gray, until an innocent young blood, have mercy upon thee,
and with you goes to bed and kisses without horror. But remember this: you will of this unfaithful
again, then will you pushed down forever in the deepest hell fire. Snake king had in his Transformation
across the color keep the dress, which he wore because he was still Prince. He wore namely, a
green and yellow striped silk coat, and now he steals as a nice green and yellow striped snake
around with a golden crown on his head, and whistling and hisses like a snake, but he can
not speak. Only certain days in the year, where he can sing, and he sings with so beautiful and
sweet voice, that he had many a poor child is tempted to go with him to his castle, but he has
not a single found that he wanted to kiss. But they are gone with him, must in his castle seated
until he finds one that it can bring about the heart, to kiss him in love. The the does, which
is the queen and all the others, he has lured to their Servants. And in this way but they can
be redeemed from the castle.

was not far from the lake, where snake king's castle on the island, was a village that was called
Thorstorp. The meadows and pastures of the village went down to the lake, and then drove the
children of the village towards their cows and kept them there. Under these shepherds were
two who had loved each other very much and drove their flocks together
almost always.

It was a little girl, whose name was Margaret, and a boy, whose name was Jacob. Margaret was fourteen
years old and Jacob sixteen. They were both almost grown but innocent were like little children
and did not know why they love each other so. But they loved everything about themselves,
that is true. These and the other boys and girls, which there the cattle were herded, eels
Koenig mogten run often and suffer him gladly, because He was very nice and colorful, and his
crown sparkled on the most beautiful of all. The rogue came often swam through the lake and
curled around in the grass and twisted his beautiful slim Body around the trees and bushes
that were watching the children's games and their pleasure had. But they came very close to him,
because they had a horror of him because he Snake figure was wearing, although they knew that
he did not bite and that was no harm. The children had never heard a song by him, though the
speech was, the snake king can sing and I have lured some nice girl, now sit in his castle and would
have to cry, but he always had before them gezischelt just as do other snakes. He could not
even sing every day, and in addition, it was much too clever as he is in society would have
let on that he could sing, because there was nothing to him yes . Help No, when his singing days
were when he and then overhear a pretty child alone could, then he made his voice sound and took it
away with habitually.

One day Jacob was sitting with his Margarethe behind a green bush and the two children , and told
stories and their cows graseten before them, but the other shepherds driven further down. Then
came news that Jacob had to hurry home. He kissed his love Margaret and said, Margaret, give my
cows, meanwhile, also eight, to I come back, and if the snake king
around, stay in his body, and not alone exaggerating just quick, to
the other shepherds.

He could receive up consistently, because the rogue should have it in his voice. She promised,
but said the boys moving away laughing by: O this is just a fable with the singing of the king
snake, he can not even Speakers: consistently receive me not to.

Jacob was hardly a hundred yards away, the snake king came and swam across the lake then curled
into the funniest of all circles back over the fields and made so many Schlingungen cute and
turns, and turned his head with the golden crown Sun sweet smile as bright and peeking out
that the little pleasure in their right Margarethe and had her promise she did Jacob, and entirely
forgot.

Koenig and snake curled and crawled closer and closer approach to a green tree that stood before
Margaret, and rocked for several minutes around in the branches, he sang with the sweetest
of all and most mobile voice, as if a hundred thousand Fruehlingsnachtigallen also beaten,
and Margaret could no longer from the spot and had to listen to him: they sat, as if they had
been conjured up, though she thought of her words of Jacob. He sang but this Singing, which they
call the snake king bridal song, and what he had some tender virgin has locked in his castle:

Come
on, nice Jungfraeuelein, sleep with me! I have a Goldringelein, the gift I you, I have a Goldkaemmerlein,
this is for you, I have a Goldwiegelein, Drinking weigh ' I love you. Come on, nice Jungfraeuelein,
sleep with me! Sweet and cool wine drinkers with me, sugar is called here the bread, meat,
Marcipan, rose-red apples Beisset your tooth.

Come on, nice Jungfraeuelein, sleep with me!

Servants of pretty and fine waiting at the door, Kammerfrau'n countless standing by the bed,
the gold in the hall is a wedding.

Come on, nice Jungfraeuelein, sleep with me! Drawing in my castle
with one, I'm good you.

Hurrah! how to fly the bar to dance funny! You wear the wedding ring, bridegroom I am.

king snake had finished singing, smile kindly on the girl down, then came down, proposed in
the grass some little ring around the child and even sang softly and tiresome: Come with me!
Come with!

And Margaret came up with. But no sooner had gone toe-step snake Koenig, thus thinking they were back
and wanted to flee. But it was too late, she was now king snake Violence: he surrounded them
and carried them across the field with back away, and she screamed in vain: Jacob! Jacob! help!
help! and called out to the other shepherds, but neither James nor the shepherds were there, and snake
king turned to her cry and not rolled quicker than the flash with her about it and swam through
the lake.

As the snake king over the water had hinuebergetragen to the island,
he was suddenly disappeared, the little Margaret was passed out with
fear and knew no not as they had come across the lake.

But that was the strangest, that not a single drop Water had been attached to her hair and clothes
still got through was that she was quite come dry on the small island. And as she could remember
again, as was they are in a beautiful garden full of the funniest of all trees and colorful flowers;
and everything was how the song was sung in all branches hung sugar and Marcipan and rose-red
apples and sweet through the garden ran a deep river of milk and sources Bubbling wine from
the hills. The lock on the hill but was much nicer described as a snake king bride song had it,
and they were so attractive rooms and sparkling Chambers and chambers is that no one could describe
the glory, and if you would give him a forever time to seek the most beautiful words with
which he described and wanted to paint, he got it but not finished.

And as Margaret appeared before the castle, see there were a hundred flight attendants the
body which carried candles and lamps. This led them into a large marble hall was decorated with
gold and silver and precious stones, gold and silver and put on her
clothes and put on her a gold crown on his head and called it queen
and mistress, and Serving jumped around and brought her everything
she asked for only.

These servants all were young and wore snow-white dresses and green Kraenzlein in her hair
and saw the Most more sad than merry from.

And as it grew dark, and went against the night, came back another young woman, and brought
Margaret in a little room, which flashed and glittered like pure gold, and then stood a golden
bed, which were lying on rose-red and sky blue silk pillows and blankets. And they came near
to her very respectfully, and went off her clothes and shoes from
the feet and took the crown of her head and put them into the soft
bed.

When they did that, deleted the lamp except one, and bowed in silence and in silence and walked away.

And
It was not long, it whispered and knisperte and whispered at the door, and the doors were opened,
and the snake king came in and crawled to Margaret's bed and whispered and whispered softly
to her: Welcome, my Chosen Queen! welcome, my sweet bride! Now I'll be your groom to you, my
sweet Margrethchen! as have I sung under the green trees, and now everything will come true!
O come and take me in your arms! and express myself in your warm
heart! and kiss me and I was quite love!

I am saved and you are a rich and great queen. For ah! is my sad fate, as long as I have to
crawl around as snake king on earth, to an innocent child I umhalset in love and then transformed
into the most beautiful prince the I've been. And he whispered softly, and even loose and looked
at her with flashing eyes , and lifted his head up at her as if to climb into bed with her -
but Margaretha cried and cried huge: Fort du colorful monster! No, never - never - never! and
if you were so beautiful when you're ugly. I do not want to be your queen, I will in my life
have no other bridegroom than my love .-- And Snake Jakob Koenig Duken had to flee and,

And when it was day, the same white young women who were lined Margaret had, and pulled her gorgeous
regal clothes on him and put her golden Crown on the head and the other in the hall and bowed
at the door now before her, and she served. And they went about the palace and the garden and
looked at all the Splendor and glory. But more than the garden come she could not, because it
ran a sky-high wall surrounding crystals around it and its gates were locked tight. She looked
all day but not the least of snake king, and this was her very dear. But on the scallop have
to think it has much, often bitterly, and she called middle of the
shimmering glory: O my dear James!

I also sat only with you now in a bad dress under a green tree, how much happier I would be!
Ugh the hideous serpent king! as he has enticed and seduced me with his singing!

And as night fell, they led just like yesterday in her chamber and took her gold to bed and put
out the lamp. And the king snake was just as like yesterday and crept to her bed, and implored
that they take him to bed and love them and Queen should be. But she was much worse than yesterday
and drove him out with bad words continued. And snake king had sad creep back from the chamber
and the night again sleep on the cold damp earth.

This went on for three days and snake king tried three more times, whether the child love him
wanted to win and sleep with him. They cried always away Away, you
bare glistening Juggler!

Jacob is my husband and no one else ever!

With the fifth time the samples were over, had to endure what Margrethchen, and the sad king snake
now cried to the women and servants, that she of the jewelry Stripping and lead from the golden
chamber like, and said to Margaret. Are now you are no longer king bride and it can never be
if you wanted too. Thus, the order of fate here.

You are henceforth a poor servant, am about to other servants of the high and wait for women
who come here and deliver me to. He said but that which have mercy on him and kiss him and love
from the heart and Queen and mistress of all these servants would
be that his love had scorned.

And Margaret now had a white dress and wore a green and had to Kraenzlein consistent with the
other young girls at the door of the castle and in the great hall and . Wait They were all
young children, the servants and maids, no under thirteen Years and not over seventeen, well
over a hundred and fifty in number, all the pretty and fine. With each king snake had it quite
as trying as with Margrethchen, want to have but not one had so many hear his prayers and love
him.

This cute kids were now indeed very finely dressed, and had the food and the potion and what
they needed to live fully, they also were plagued with no effort and work and could walk and
sing and dance the day and often walks in the beautiful garden and to pick flowers and the birds
singing in the trees on the allerlustigste hear; but the time they were after long warm in all
this splendor, and most were full Sadness and longing. One longed for a father and mother,
the other a brother and sister, the third for a sweetheart, Margaret longed for nothing as their
love for Jacob, from whom she had so miserably can entice them away.

Jacob was soon come after Margaret had been kidnapped by king snake, and sought Margaret's in
the forest and grazing in the other shepherds. He found anywhere, but The shepherds told him
king snake it would have probably catched. Jacob also heard sometimes by a man who plowed down
by the lake because he had heard in the distance a whimper and let the hijacked Margaret Being
probably have been. Little Jacob was very sad and had to think every day even every hour,
and always be Margrethchen across to the island Looking at what no
one dared, for it was the legend, one would have to equal the pale
death be, who without a safe deposit in the area of ​​snake king wage.

As Jacob looked sad and longingly over and sighed: Ah Margrethchen! Margrethchen! why did you not
plugged his ears as the luegnerische and hypocritical scoundrel sang? and called also for the
good times: Hold on bravely, Margrethchen! Queen will not, Margrethchen! He had but certainly
not necessary, because Margaret was faithful to him as gold. That was him but the saddest of
all this history when he snake king over the Meadows hinschluepfen saw in his coat of many colors
that he could do nothing to him.

So were Jacob two years passed in grief and sadness over his lost love Margaret, because he heard
from an old Schaefer a council, how enchanted princes and princesses and could be even the witches
and warlocks Lord, and if they were still so bad. And Jacob went hastily into the woods and
a big knotty thorn stick cut from a thorn bush, which means the buckthorn, and then he cut yet from
a cross. Now when the king snake the next time hinschlaengelte over the meadow, Jacob took up
courage and went on him, so surprised that the snake king what would the farmer boy, for He
was not used, that people went off on him, but that most of it before
fled.

And snake king thought to himself: the peasant boy hunt I will know that he the hair will fly on his
head, and he sat up and sparks from the spruehete shiny eyes and stretched out his tongue and hissing
was his crown on his head crimson with anger and shrugged his back, as if to jump to Jacob. But
Jacob went to meet him firmly and shouted: Come here, Mr. Heath King! Just come here! I am not frightened
before you, you shall learn a room. And as the snake king jumped on him touched, he softly with his
thorn bush, and wonder of wonders! King snake writhed and twisted is the spike floor, as the
vine wrapped around her staff. And Jacob rejoiced and exclaimed with joy: Hold on, my little
prince! I must try my Kunststueck. And he took a stick and swung him three times around his
head that he sausete through the air, and snake Koenig held, as if he was to the seat. The stock
is good and the Schaefer is not stupid, Jacob said, and asked Snake Koenig: Koenig snake do
you want me Margrethchen play, I'll make you go Strax and you may go wherever you want. King
snake but shook his head. And Jacob said again: So farewell for now, my lord! freeze the night
here and remember you until tomorrow. And he took the floor and pushed him firmly Dorn in the
earth, and the snake king hung it, and it looked very funny.

The next morning came and said to Jacob King snake: snake king wants you I play Margrethchen?
King snake but shook his head even more than yesterday. Since Jacob was very evil and went
and cut a fresh hazel and said, I probably should just ask your colorful jackets, what does that say to the
joke, perhaps gives me one clever answer. And he beat snake king on his coat of many colors,
that he doubled up like a catchy tune and the tongue reached out loud hissing, but he nodded
not his head: Jacob I will reflect Margrethchen. When Jacob said that he it was this time beaten
enough, he walked away and said: For today's is enough to think up until tomorrow.

The third morning came and said to Jacob King Snake: Snake King yesterday
and the day I asked you: Snake King, do you want me to play Margrethen?

 God never intended,
when he covered thy nakedness with the righteousness of his dear Son, and delivered thee from
the condemning power of sin and the law, that thou shouldst still live as do those who know
not God. 'This I say therefore,' saith Paul, 'and testify in the Lord; that ye henceforth walk
not as other Gentiles, in the vanity of their mind' (Eph 4:17). What, a Christian, and live
as does the world? (John 17:16). A Christian, and spend thy time, thy strength, and parts,
for things that perish in the using? Remember, man, if the grace of God hath taken hold of
thy soul, thou art a man of another world, and indeed a subject of another and more noble kingdom,
the kingdom of God, which is the kingdom of the gospel, of grace, of faith and righteousness,
and the kingdom of heaven hereafter (Rom 14:16-18). This, I say, is God's design; this is the
tendency, the natural tendency of every grace of God bestowed upon thee: and herein is our
Father glorified, that we bring forth much fruit (Col 3:1-4; John 15:8).

Second. A second reason why Christians should so manage their time and the work that God hath
appointed them to do for his name in this world, that they may not have part thereof to do
when they should be departing this world, it is because, if they do not, dying will be a hard
work with them especially if God awakeneth them about their neglect of their duty (1 Cor 11:30-32).
The way of God with his people is to visit their sins in this life; and the worst time for
thee to be visited for them, is when thy life is smitten down, as it were to the dust of death,
even when all natural infirmities break in like a flood upon thee, sickness, fainting, pains,
wearisomeness, and the like; now I say, to be charged also with the neglect of duty, when in
no capacity to do it; yea, perhaps so feeble, as scarce able to abide to hear thy dearest friend
in this life speak to thee; will not this make dying hard. Yea, when thou shalt seem both in
thine own eyes, as also in the eyes of others, to fall short of the kingdom of heaven for this
and the other transgression, will not this make dying hard? (Heb 4:1,2). David found it hard,
when he cried, 'O spare me' a little, 'that I may recover strength before I go hence, and be
no more' (Psa 39:13). David at this time was chastened for some iniquity; yea, brought for
his folly to the doors of the shadow of death. But here he could not enter without great distress
of mind; wherefore he cries out for respite and time to do the will of God, and the work allotted
to him. Let then the thoughts of this prevail with thee, as a reason of great weight to provoke
thee to study to manage thy time and work in wisdom while thou art well.[11]

Third. Another reason, why those that fear God should so manage their time and work for God
in this world, that they may not have part to do when they should be departing this life, it
is, because loitering in thy work doth, as much as in it lieth, defer and hold back the second
coming of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. One thing, amongst many, that letteth[12] the
appearing of Christ in the clouds of heaven, is, that his body, with the several members thereof,
are not yet complete and full; they are not all yet come to the knowledge of the Son of God,
'to the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ' (Eph 4:8-13); that is, to the complete
making up of his body; for as Peter saith, 'The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as
some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance' (2 Peter 3:9). And so also to the complete performance
of all their duty and work they have for God in this world. And I say, the faster the work
of conversion, repentance, faith, self-denial, and the rest of the Christian duties, are performed
by the saints in their day, the more they make way for the coming of the Lord from heaven.
Wherefore Peter saith again, 'Seeing then that' we look for such things, 'what manner of persons
ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness, looking for, and hasting unto,' or,
as it is in the margin, 'hasting the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on
fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat' (2 Peter 3:11,12).
When the bride hath made herself ready, 'the marriage of the Lamb is come' (Rev 19:7). That
is, the Lord will then wait upon the world no longer, when his saints are fit to receive him.
As he said to Lot when he came to burn down Sodom, 'Haste thee' to Zoar, 'for I cannot do anything
till thou be come thither' (Gen 19:20-22). So concerning the great day of judgment to the world,
which shall be also the day of blessedness and rest to the people of God, it cannot come until
the Lamb's wife hath made herself ready; until all the saints that belong to glory are ready.
And before I go further, what might I yet say to fasten this reason upon the truly gracious
soul? What! wilt thou yet loiter in the work of thy day? wilt thou still be unwilling to hasten
righteousness? dost thou not know that thou by so doing deferrest the coming of thy dearest
Lord? Besides, that is the day of his glory, the day when he shall come in the glory of his
Father and of the holy angels; and wilt not thou by thy diligence help it forwards? Must also
the general assembly and church of the first-born wait upon thee for their full portions of
glory? Wilt thou by thus doing endeavour to keep them wrapt up still in the dust of the earth,
there to dwell with the worm and corruption? The Lord awaken thee, that thou mayst see thy
loitering doth do this, and doth also hinder thy own soul of the inheritance prepared for thee.[13]

4. Another reason why saints should press hard after a complete performing their work that
God hath allotted unto them is, because, so far forth as they fall short, in that they impair
their own glory. For as the Lord hath commanded his people to work for him in this world, so
also he of grace hath promised to reward whatever they Christianly do. For whatsoever good
thing any man doth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bound or free. Yea,
he counts it unrighteousness to forget their work of faith and labour of love, but a righteous
thing to recompense them for it in the day of our Lord Jesus (Heb 6:10; 2 Thess 1:6,7). This,
well considered, is of great force to prevail with those that are covetous of glory, such as
Moses and Paul, with the rest of that spirit.

Having thus given you the reasons why God's people should be diligent in that work that God
hath allotted for them to be doing for him in this world, I shall, in the next place, give
you some directions, as helps to further you in this work. And they are such as tend to take
away those hindrances that come upon thee, either by discouragement, or by reason of hardness
and benumbedness of spirit; for great hindrances overtake God's people from both these impediments.

[Directions, as helps to further in this work.]

First. If thou wouldst be faithful to do that work that God hath allotted thee to do in this
world for his name, labour to live much in the favour and sense of thy freedom and liberty
by Jesus Christ; that is, keep this, if possible, ever before thee, that thou art a redeemed
one, taken out of this world, and from under the curse of the law, out of the power of the
devil, &c., and placed in a kingdom of grace, and forgiveness of sins for Christ's sake. This
is of absolute use in this matter; yea, so absolute, that it is impossible for any Christian
to do his word Christianly without some enjoyment of it. And indeed, take this away, and what
ground can there be laid for any man to persevere in good works? None at all. For take away
grace and remission of sins for Christ's sake, and you leave men nothing to help them but the
terrors of the law and judgment of God, which, at best, can beget but a servile and slavish
spirit in that man in whom it dwells; which spirit is so far off from being an help to us in
our pursuit of good works, that it makes us we cannot endure that which is commanded, but,
Israel-like, it flieth from God even as from the face of a serpent (Heb 12:20; Exo 19). As
Solomon saith, 'A servant will not be corrected by words, for, though he understand, he will
not answer' (Prov 29:19). Get thou then thy soul possessed with the spirit of the Son, and
believe thou art set perfectly free by him from whatsoever thou by sin hast deserved at the
hand of revenging justice. This doctrine unlooseth thy bands, takes off thy yoke, and lets
thee go upright. This doctrine puts spiritual and heavenly inclinations into thy soul; and
the faith of this truth doth show thee that God hath so surprised thee, and gone beyond thee,
with his blessed and everlasting love, that thou canst not but reckon thyself his debtor for
ever. 'Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh' (Rom
8:12). That argument of Paul to Philemon is here true in the highest degree, thou owest to
God for his grace to thee, 'even thine own self besides' (Phile 19). This Paul further testifies,
both in the 6th and 7th of the Romans. In the one he saith, we are 'free from sin'; in the
other he saith, we are 'dead to the law,' that our fruit might be unto holiness: that we might
'bring forth fruit unto God' (Rom 6:22, 7:4). For, as I said, if either thy ungodly lusts,
or the power and force of the law, have dominion over thy spirit, thou art not in a condition
now to be performing thy work to God in this world. I have heretofore marvelled at the quarrelsome
spirit that possessed the people that Malachi speaketh of, how they found fault with, in a
manner, all things that were commanded them to do; but I have since observed their ungodly
disposition was grounded upon this, their doubting of the love of God, 'Yet ye say, Wherein
hast thou loved us?' (Mal 1:2). And, indeed, if people once say to God, by way of doubt, 'Wherein
hast thou loved us?' no marvel though that people be like those in Malachi's time, a discontented,
a murmuring, backward people about everything that is good. Read that whole book of Malachi.

Second. 'O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; fear before him, all the earth' (Psa
96:9). And for thy help in this, think much on this in general, that 'Thus saith the Lord'
is the wind-up of every command; for, indeed, much of the glory and beauty of duties doth lie
in the glory and excellency of the person that doth command them; and hence it is that 'Be
it enacted by the King's most excellent Majesty' is in the head of every law, because that
law should therefore be reverenced by, and be made glorious and beautiful to all. And we see,
upon this very account, what power and place the precepts of kings do take in the hearts of
their subjects, every one loving and reverencing the statute, because there is the name of
their king. Will you rebel against the king? is a word that shakes the world.[14] Well, then,
turn these things about for an argument to the matter in hand, and let the name of God, seeing
he is wiser and better, and of more glory and beauty than kings, beget in thy heart a beauty
in all things that are commanded thee of God. And, indeed, if thou do not in this act thus,
thou wilt stumble at some of thy duty and work thou hast to do; for some of the commands of
God are, in themselves, so mean and low, that take away the name of God from them, and thou
wilt do as Naaman the Syrian, despise, instead of obeying. What is there in the Lord's supper,
in baptism, yea, in preaching the Word, and prayer, were they not the appointments of God?
His name being entailed to them, makes them every one glorious and beautiful. Wherefore, no
marvel if he that looks upon them without their title-page goeth away in a rage, like Naaman,
preferring others before them. What is Jordan? This was because he remembered not that the
name of God was in the command. Israel's trumpets of ram's horns (Josh 6:2-4), and Isaiah's
walking naked (Isa 20:3), and Ezekiel's wars against a tile (Eze 4:1-4), would, doubtless,
have been ignoble acts, but that the name of God was that which gave them reverence, power,
glory, and beauty. Set therefore the name of God, and 'Thus saith the Lord,' against all reasonings,
defamings, and reproaches, that either by the world, or thy own heart, thou findest to arise
against thy duty, and let his name and authority alone be a sufficient argument with thee,
'to behold the beauty' that he hath put upon all his ways, 'and to inquire in his temple' (Psa
27:4).

Third. Wouldst thou be faithful to do that work that God hath appointed thee to do in this
world for his name? then make much of a trembling heart and conscience; for though the Word
be the line and rule whereby we must order and govern all our actions, yet a trembling heart
and tender conscience is of absolute necessity for our so doing. A hard heart can do nothing
with the word of Jesus Christ. 'Hear the word of the Lord, ye that tremble at his word' (Isa
66:5). 'Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling' (Psa 2:11). I spake before against
a servile and slavish frame of spirit, therefore you must not understand me here as if I meant
now to cherish such a one; no, it is a heart that trembleth for, or at the grace of God; and
a conscience made tender by the sprinkling of the blood of Christ. Such a conscience as is
awakened both by wrath and grace, by the terror and the mercy of God; for it stands with the
spirit of a son to fear before his father; yea, to fear chastings, though not to fear damnation.
Let, therefore, destruction from God be a terror to thy heart, though not that destruction
that attends them that perish by sin for ever (Job 31:23). Though this I might add further;
it may do thee no harm, but good, to cast an eye over thy shoulder at those that now lie roaring
under the vengeance of eternal fire; it may put thee in mind of what thou wast once, and of
what thou must yet assuredly be, if grace by Christ preventeth not (Isa 66:24). Keep, then,
thy conscience awake with wrath and grace, with heaven and hell; but let grace and heaven bear
sway. Paul made much of a tender conscience, else he had never done as he did, nor suffered
what we read of. But this could not a stony, benumbed, bribed, deluded, or a muzzled conscience
do. Paul was like the nightingale with his breast against the thorn.[15] That his heart might
still keep waking, he would accustom himself to the meditation of those things that should
beget both love and fear; and would always be very chary, lest he offended his conscience.
'Herein do I exercise myself,' &c. Be diligent, then, in this matter, if thou wouldst be faithful
with God. A tender conscience, to some people, is like Solomon's brawling woman, a burthen
to those that have it (Prov 25:24). But let it be to thee like those that invited David to
go up to the house of the Lord (Psa 122:1). Hear it, and cherish it with pleasure and delight.

Fourth. If thou wouldst be faithful to do that work that God hath appointed thee to do in this
world for his name; then let religion be the only business to take up thy thoughts and time.
'Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might' (Eccl 9:10). With all thy heart,
with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. Religion, to most men, is but a by-business,
with which they use to fill up spare hours; or as a stalking-horse, which is used to catch
the game.[16] How few are there in the world that have their conversation 'only as becometh
the gospel'! (Phil 1:27). A heart sound in God's statutes, a heart united to the fear of God,
a heart moulded and fashioned by the Word of God, is a rare thing; rare, because it is hard
to be found, and rare because it is indeed the fruit of an excellent spirit, and a token of
one saved by the Lord (Psa 119:80, 86:11). But this indifferency in religion, this fashioning
ourselves in our language, gesture, behaviour, and carriage, to the fancies and fopperies of
this world, as it is in itself much unbecoming a people that should bear the name of their
God in their foreheads, so it cannot be but a very great and sore obstruction to thy faithful
walking with God in this world (Rom 6:17). Gird up, then, thy loins like a man,[17] let God
and his Christ, and his Word, and his people, and cause, be the chief in thy soul; and as heretofore
thou hast afforded this world the most of thy time, and travel, and study, so now convert all
these to the use of religion. 'As ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness, and
to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness'
(Rom 6:19). Holy things must be in every heart where this is faithfully put in practice.

1. Daily bring thy heart and the Word of God together, that thy heart may be levelled by it,
and also filled with it. The want of performing this sincerely, is a great cause of that unfaithfulness
that is in us to God. Bring, then, thy heart to the Word daily, to try how thou believest the
Word today, to try how it agrees with the Word today. This is the way to make clean work daily,
to keep thy soul warm and living daily. 'Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way?' saith
David. 'By taking heed thereto according to thy Word' (Psa 119:9). And again, 'Thy Word have
I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee' (Psa 119:11).

2. A continual remembrance that to every day thou hast thy work allotted thee; and that sufficient
for that day are the evils that attend thee (Matt 6:34). This remembrance set Paul upon his
watch daily; made him die to himself and this world daily, and provoked him also daily to wind
up the spirit of his mind; transforming himself by the power of the Word, from that proneness
that was in his flesh to carnal things (1 Cor 15:30-33). This will make thee keep the knife
at thy throat in all places, and business, and company (Prov 23:2).

3. Let thy heart be more affected with what concerns the honour of God, and the profit and
glory of the gospel, than with what are thy concernments as a man, with all earthly advantages.
This will make thee refuse things that are lawful, if they appear to be inexpedient. Yea, this
will make thee, like the apostles of old, prefer another man's peace and edification before
thine own profit, and to take more pleasure in the increase of the power of godliness in any,
than in the increase of thy corn and wine.

4. Reckon with thy own heart every day, before thou lie down to sleep, and cast up both what
thou hast received from God, done for him, and where thou hast also been wanting. This will
beget praise and humility, and put thee upon redeeming the day that is past; whereby thou wilt
be able, through the continual supplies of grace, in some good measure to drive thy work before
thee, and to shorten it as thy life doth shorten; and mayst comfortably live in the hope of
bringing both ends sweetly together. But to pass this.

Fifth. It is with Christians as it is with other scholars, they sometimes meet with hard lessons;
but these thou must also learn, or thou canst not do thy work. The Word and Spirit of God come
sometimes like chain-shot to us, as if it would cut down all; as when Abraham was to offer
up Isaac, and the Levites to slay their brethren (Gen 22; Exo 32:26-28). Paul also must go
from place to place to preach, though he knew beforehand he was to be afflicted there (Acts
20:23). God may sometimes say to thee, as he said to his servant Moses, 'Take the serpent by
the tail'; or, as the Lord Jesus said to Peter, Walk upon the sea (Exo 4:3,4). These are hard
things, but have not been rejected when God hath called to do them. O how willingly would our
flesh and blood escape the cross of Christ! The comforts of the gospel, the sweetness of the
promise, how pleasing is it to us! Like Ephraim here, we love to tread out the corn (Hosea
10:11), and to hear those pleasant songs and music that gospel sermons make, where only grace
is preached, and nothing of our duty as to works of self-denial; but as for such, God will
tread upon their fair neck, and yoke them with Christ's yoke; for there they have a work to
do, even a work of self-denial.[18]

Now this work sometimes lieth in acts that seem to be desperate, as when a man must both leave
and hate his life, and all he hath for Christ, or else he cannot serve him nor be counted his
disciple (Luke 14:26-33). Thus it seemed with Christ himself when he went his fatal journey
up to Jerusalem; he went thither, as he knew, to die, and therefore trod every step as it were
in his own bowels;[19] but yet, no doubt, with great temptation to shun and avoid that voyage;
and therefore it is said, 'He set his face steadfastly to go up,' scorning to be invited to
the contrary, and to prevent the noise of his weak disciples, Master, save thyself (Luke 9:51).
It is said he ascended before them, insomuch that they were amazed to see his resolution, while
they themselves were afraid of that dreadful effect that might follow (Mark 10:32-34). Also
when he came there, and was to be apprehended, he went to the garden that Judas knew, his old
accustomed place; so when they asked him the killing question, he answered, 'I am he' (John
18:1-5).

Sometimes in acts that seem to be foolish, as when men deny themselves of those comforts, and
pleasures, and friendships, and honours, of the world that formerly they used to have, and
choose rather to associate themselves with the very abjects of this world[20]--I mean, such
as carnal men count so--counting their ways and manners of life, though attended with a thousand
calamities, more profitable, and pleasing, and delightful, than all former glory. Thus Elisha
left his father's house, though to pour water upon the hands of Elijah (2 Kings 3:11). And
thus the disciples left their fathers' ships and nets, to live a beggarly life with Jesus Christ;
as Paul did leave the feet of Gamaliel for the whip, and the stocks, and the deaths that attended
the blessed gospel. One would have thought that had been a simple way of Peter to leave all
for Christ, before he knew what Christ would give him, as that 19th of Matthew seems to import;
but Christ will have it so (v 27). He that will save his life must lose it; and he that will
lose his life in this world for Christ, shall keep it to life eternal (John 12:25). I might
add many things of this nature, to show you what hard chapters sometimes God sets his best
people; but thy work is, if thou wouldst be faithful, not to stop nor stick at anything (Matt
10:37).

Now, for thy better performing this piece of service for our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ:
O it is hard work to pocket up the reproaches of all the foolish people, as if we had found
great spoil; and to suffer all their revilings, lies, and slanders, without cursing them, as
Elisha did the children; to answer them with prayers and blessings for their cursings. It is
far more easy to give them taunt for taunt, and reviling for reviling; to give them blow for
blow; yea, to call for fire from heaven against them. But to 'bless them that curse you, and
to pray for them that despitefully use you, and persecute you'--even of malice, of old grudge,
and on purpose to vex and afflict our mind, and to make us break out into a rage--this is work
above us; now our patience should look up to unseen things; now remember Christ's carriage
to them that spilt his blood; or all is in danger of bursting, and thou of miscarrying in theses
things. I might here also dilate upon Job's case, and the lesson God set him, when, at one
stroke, he did beat down all (Job 1:15), only spared his life, but made that also so bitter
to him that his soul chose strangling rather than it (Job 7:15). Thus, with few words, Job
ascribeth righteousness to his Maker; but though they were but few, they proceeded from so
blessed a frame of heart, that causeth the penman of the Word to stay himself and wonder, saying,
'In all this Job sinned not' with his lips, 'nor charged God foolishly.' In all this--what
a great deal will the Holy Ghost make of that which seems but little when it flows from an
upright heart! and it indeed may well be so accounted of all that know what is in man, and
what he is prone unto.

1. Labour to believe that all these things are tokens of the love of God (Heb 12:6; Rev 3:19).
2. Remember often that thou art not the first that hath met with these things in the world.
'It hated me,' saith Christ, 'before it hated you' (John 15:18). 3. Arm thyself with a patient
and quiet mind to bear and suffer for his sake (1 Peter 4:1-3). 4. Look back upon thy provocations
wherewith thou mayst have provoked God (Deut 9:7; Lev 26:41,42); then wilt thou accept of the
punishment for thy sins, and confess it was less than thine iniquities deserve (Ezra 9:13).
5. Pray thou mayst hear the voice of the rod, and have a heart to answer the end of God therein
(Micah 6:9). 6.

Sixth. I am confident that most, if not all the miscarriages of the saints and people of God,
they have their rise from deceivable thoughts here. The things of this world appear to us more,
and those that are to come less, than they are; and hence it is that many are so hot and eager
for things that be in the world, and so cold and heartless for those that be in heaven. Satan
is here a mighty artist, and can show us all earthly things in a multiplying glass; but when
we look up to things above, we see them as through sackcloth of hair;[22] but take thou heed,
be not ruled by thy sensual appetite that can only savour fleshly things, neither be thou ruled
by carnal reason, which always darkeneth the things of heaven. But go to the Word, and as that
says, so judge thou. That tells thee all things under the sun are vanity, nay worse, vexation
of spirit (Eccl 1:2). That tells thee the world is not, even then when it doth most appear
to be; wilt thou set thine heart upon that which is not? 'for riches certainly make themselves
wings, they fly away as an eagle toward heaven' (Prov 23:5). The same may be said for honours,
pleasures, and the like; they are poor, low, base things to be entertained by a Christian's
heart. The man that hath most of them may 'in the fulness of his sufficiency be in straits';
yea, 'when he is about to fill his belly with them, God may cast the fury of his wrath upon
him' (Job 20:22,25); 'so is he that layeth up treasure for himself' on earth, 'and is not rich
towards God' (Luke 12:20,21). A horse that is loaden with gold and pearls all day, may have
a foul stable and a galled back at night. And woe be to him that increaseth that which is not
his, and that ladeth himself with thick clay. O man of God, throw this bone to the dogs; suck
not at it, there is no marrow there (Heb 2:6). Set thine affections on 'things that are above,
where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God' (Col 3:1-4). Behold what God hath prepared for
them that love him. And if God hath blessed thee with ought, set not thine heart upon it; honour
the Lord with thy substance. Further, to lighten thine eyes a little, and,

1. Concerning the glory of the world.

(1.) It is that which God doth mostly give to those that are not his; for the poor receive
the gospel; not many rich, 'not many mighty, not many noble are called' (1 Cor 1:26).

(2.) Much of this world and its glory is permitted of God to be disposed of by the devil, and
he is called both the prince and god thereof (John 14:30; 2 Cor 4:4). Yea, when Satan told
Christ he could give it to whom he would, Christ did not say, Thou liest, but answered, by
the Word, 'It is written thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve'
(Luke 4:6-8). Implying also, that commonly when men get much of the honours and glory of this
world, it is by bending the knee too low to the prince and god thereof.

(3.) The nature of the best of worldly things, if hankered after, is to deaden the spirit (Rom
8:6,7), to estrange the heart from God, to pierce thee through with many sorrows, and to drown
thee in perdition and destruction (1 John 2:15).

2. As to the things of God, what shall I say? the things of his Word, and Spirit, and kingdom,
they so far go beyond the conceivings of the heart of man, that none can utter them but by
the Holy Spirit; but there is no deceit in them; 'no lie is of the truth,' what they promise
they will perform with additions of amazing glory (1 John 2:21). Taste them first, and then
thou shalt see them. 'O' come 'taste and see that the Lord is good: blessed is the man that
trusteth in him' (Psa 34:8). But again, as thou shouldst labour to possess thy heart with a
right understanding of the perishing nature of the riches and pleasures of this world, and
of the durable riches and righteousness that is in Christ, and all heavenly things; so thou
shouldst labour to keep always in thy eye what sin is, what hell is, what the wrath of God
and everlasting burnings are. Transfer them to thyself, as it were on a finger,[23] that thou
mayst learn to think of nothing more highly than is meet, but to give to what thou beholdst
their own due weight; then thou wilt fear where thou shouldst fear, love what is worthy thy
love, and slight that which is of no worth. These are just weights, and even balances; now
thou dealest not with deceitful weights; and this is the way to be rich in good works, and
to bring thy work, that God hath appointed, to a good issue against thy dying day.

Seventh. Work while it is called today, 'the night cometh when no man can work' (John 9:4).
In that parable of the man that took a far journey, it is said, as he gave to every servant
his work, so he 'commanded the porter to watch'; that is, for his Lord's coming back, and in
the mean time, for all opportunities to perform the work he left in their hand, and committed
unto their trust (Mark 13:34,35).[24] Seest thou the poor? seest thou the fatherless? seest
thou thy foe in distress? draw out thy breast, shut not up thy bowels of compassion, deal thy
bread to the hungry, bring the poor that are cast out into thine house, hide not thyself from
thine own flesh, take the opportunity that presents itself to thee, either by the eye or the
hearing of the ear, or by some godly motion that passeth over thy heart (Isa 58:7; Rom 12:20).
'Say not' to such messengers, 'go, and come again tomorrow; if thou hast it by thee'; now the
opportunity is put into thy hand, delay not to do it, and the Lord be with thee! (Prov 3:28).
Good opportunities are God's seasons for the doing of thy work; wherefore watch for them, and
take them as they come. Paul tells us 'he was in watchings often' (2 Cor 11:26,27); surely
it was that he might take the season that God should give him to do this work for him; as he
also saith to Timothy, 'Watch thou in all things,--do the work,' &c. Opportunities as to some
things come but once in one's lifetime, as in the case of Esther, and of Nicodemus, and holy
Joseph; when Esther begged the life of the Jews, and the other the body of Jesus; which once
had they let slip or neglected, they could not have recovered it again for ever. Watch then
for the opportunity. 1. Because it is God's season; which, without doubts, is the best season
and time for every purpose (Eccl 3:11). 2. Because Satan watches to spoil, by mistiming as
well as by corrupting whatever thou shalt do for God. 'When I would do good,' saith Paul, 'evil
is present,' that is, either to withdraw me from my purpose, or else to infect my work (Rom
7:21). 3. This is the way to be profitable unto others. Thy wickedness may hurt a man, as thou
art, and thy righteousness may profit the son of man (Job 35:8). 4. This is also the way to
be doing good to thyself (Job 22:2). 'He that watereth shall be watered himself' (Prov 11:25).

And I say, that the opportunity may not slip thee, either for want of care or provision, (1.)
Sit always loose from an overmuch affecting thine own concernments, and believe that thou wast
not born for thyself; 'a brother is born for adversity' (Prov 17:17). (2.) Get thy heart tenderly
affected with the welfare and prosperity of all things that bear the stamp and image of God
(2 Cor 11:29). (3.) Study thy own place and capacity that God hath put thee in, in this world;
for suitable to thy place thy work and opportunities are (1 Cor 7:24). (4.) Make provision
beforehand, that when things present themselves thou mayst come up to a good performance; be
'prepared to every good work' (2 Tim 2:21). (5.) Take heed of carnal reasonings, keep thy heart
tender; but set thy face like a flint for God (Gal 1:9). (6.) And look well to the manner of
every duty.

Eighth. The treasure that here our Lord commands we should with diligence lay up in heaven,
is found both in Luke, and Paul, and Peter, to be meant by doing good work.

1. Luke renders it thus, 'Sell that ye have and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax
not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth
corrupteth,' the latter part of the verse expounding the former (Luke 12:33).

2.

3. Peter also acknowledgeth and asserteth this, where, in his exhortation to elders to do their
duty faithfully, and with cheerfulness, he affirms, if they do so, they 'shall receive a crown
of glory that fadeth not away' (1 Peter 5:2-4); which Paul also calleth a reward for cheerful
work (1 Cor 9:17; 2 Tim 4:2).

[Objections answered.]

But before I go any further, I must answer three objections that may be made by those that
read this book.

The First Objection. The first is this; some godly heart may say, I dare not own that what
I do shall ever be regarded, much less rewarded by God in another world because of the unworthiness
of my person, and because of the many infirmities and sinful weaknesses that attend me every day.

Answer. This objection is built partly upon a bashful modesty, partly upon ignorance, and partly
upon unbelief. My answer to it is as followeth.

You must remind and look back to what but now hath been proved, namely, That both Christ and
his apostles do all agree in this, that there is a reward for the righteous, and that their
good deeds are laid up as treasures for them in heaven, and are certainly to be bestowed upon
them in the last day with abundance of eternal glory. 2. Now then, to speak to thy case, and
to remove the bottom of thy objection, that the unworthiness of thy person, and thy sinful
infirmities, that attend thee in every duty, do make thee think thy works shall not be either
regarded or rewarded in another world. But consider, first, as to the unworthiness of thy person.
They that are in Christ Jesus are always complete before God, in the righteousness that Christ
hath obtained, how infirm, and weak, and wicked soever they appear to themselves. Before God,
therefore, in this righteousness thou standest all the day long, and that upon a double account;
first, by the act of faith, because thou hast believed in him that thou mightest be justified
by the righteousness of Christ; but if this fail, I mean the act of believing, still thou standest
justified by God's imputing this righteousness to thee, which imputation standing purely upon
the grace and good pleasure of God to thee, that holds thee still as just before God, though
thou wantest at present the comfort thereof. Thus, therefore, thy person stands always acccepted;
and, indeed, no man's works can at all be regarded, if his person, in the first place, be not
respected. The Lord had respect first to Abel, and after to his offering (Gen 4:4; Heb 11:4).
But he can have respect to no man before works done, unless he find them in the righteousness
of Christ; for they must be accepted through a righteousness, which, because they have none
of their own, therefore they have one of God's imputing, even that of his Son, which he wrought
for us when he was born of the Virgin, &c. As to thy sinful infirmities that attend thee in
every work, they cannot hinder thee from laying up treasure in heaven, thy heart being upright
in the way with God; nor will he be unrighteous at all to forget thy good deeds in the day
when Christ shall come from heaven.

1. This, therefore, must not hinder. And for thy further satisfaction in this, consider, as
Christ presents thy person before God, acceptable without thy works, freely and alone by his
righteousness, so his office is to take away the iniquity of thy holy things, that they also
by him may be accepted of God (Exo 28:36-38; 1 Peter 2:5). Wherefore, it is further said, for
the encouragement of the weak and feeble, He shall not break a bruised reed, nor quench the
smoking flax, but shall bring forth judgment unto victory (Matt 12:20). The left to remember but nothing to reach from the Queen would
not be punished, not the bird he shot. For that you have to honor the Huntsmen say they followed
their brave but mostly nature and rarely one of the small birds shot, but they had burst through
the forest, it popped. And thus already it was still of songs and many birds moved away from the
incessant Fray and never came back. The little nightingale, but which God protected, that saved
them from all these adjustments, could the green forest behind the castle not be where she
played in her childhood so much, and jumped, but when they also flew away as soon anbliesen the
Jagdhoerner it with Where Where Hurray and bushes by the roars, she always came back soon.
And although her little song, as a sad Heart sounding, most sad and lamentable was, it seems so
its quite graceful, to live among the green trees and colorful flowers and the moon and the
stars something Sweets vorzuklingen, and only a few months she was unhappy. This was the time
when the Autumn came and where they had to go with the other nightingales in foreign countries
until it is restored Spring was.

The small Prinzessinvoegelein was now mostly to the trees, Angern
and meadows, where they played as a child or a virgin wound with playmates
their age wreaths and dancing had been executed, or where it even
in the happiest days of her life with her lover the solitude was looking
for.

Most of all, and most of all they lived in a dense green Oak that leaned over a rippling creek
and often the sweet whispers of love had hidden in their shadows. At this point, because they
often saw the wolf, the one dark feeling of the past leads to it, but she did not know that her
poor brother was. But she loved him, because he so often held out their songs and listened, as
a something of course he, and she probably complained at times that he is an angry and Being
hard Wolf had and could not fly and fly from branch to branch, as and other birds. And now
I must also tell of a man who deserted in the Walde was listening to the little nightingale sometimes.
This man was the prince from the east country, her fiance, when she was princess.

The king, while he was still alive, had this prince for his virtue and valor before all men loved
and recommended him to his death-bed of the Queen as a council and helper in all things bad and
dangerous, especially as a pious and excellent Warrior. He also stayed after the King's death at
the Queen just for the love of the blessed Lord.

But he was soon discovered that the queen hated him, so that they followed the life sought,
and therefore suddenly departed from her court and out of their land. You but let him chase
up as a traitor and refugees, and go left a spell making him an outlaw stated that anyone who is popular,
kill him and her bring his head mogte what it had set a high price. He escaped again in the
land of his father's many hundred miles to the east of the palace of the Queen lay, and stayed
with him. But in his heart he had no peace nor rest, and the mourning for the was missing
princess never left him. Yes, the miracle came to pass with him that once every year he secretly
disappeared without a man knew where. He saddled But then his horse and equipped in inconspicuous
armor, and rode it all of a sudden, so no one knew his path. He had come to the land of the
Queen riding, which he had been outlawed, and visit those woods, where the princess was gone.
This powerful driving came to him every year just before the time when the princess vanished
was where he had to trot through rugged desert and hidden places, until it becomes well-known
sites reached where he had once walked with his bride. And there was his dark green Oak by
the brook's favorite place. Since then he brought fourteen nights in tears and prayers and
complaints about the mistress, the day he was hiding in the distant jungle. Then he saw the
little nightingale often heard and their miraculous and wonderful sweet and refreshed almost uebervoegelischen
song. But they have nothing more aware of each other. But the bird was always a great desire
in his heart, when the Knights returned to riding was, she knew not why, and he sounded her deep
and languid Tiu! Tiut! long after, when he rode back to the land of his father. He went but like
most People who do the something secret or have what other people break their heads a lot, to his
own secret that he did not know. The fact that he rode away secretly once a year, he knew
well, why he had to ride but he did not know.

And there were many days have passed since the death of the old king and was sixth in the Years lived
splendidly since the disappearance of children, and the queen and in joy, and let the animals
chase and shoot at any birds, and was not even against their subjects less severe than against
the wild and plumage of the forest. It seems so is almost omnipotent and said that their happiness and
their rule can not take an end. But they had since that The forest for days to enter the castle and
the gardens, but a secret fear had restrained them.

They could not but remember what it was, and that a Witches fear behind it. Now it happened that
even a big party and Gastmal was employed, with all princes and Fuerstinnen of the Empire
and all great men of the country and all the principal servants who were invited, and it was the
afternoon, a large Wolf Hunting decided in the forest, and the princes asked her to go with that
like them. She refused a long time under various pretexts, but at last she let herself be persuaded.
You but sat down on a high car and told three of their bravest Kriegsmaenner are well armed set
beside him; the same time she was called before several hundred armed men and armed horsemen
side and rear of the car ride, and a long series wagon full of men and women followed after her.
And the wolf was always in her heart, but she thought to herself, let the wolf only come, so
come let hundred wolves at the same time, this brave band of them is probably the finishing off
. Make So blinded God and the brightest and best when they are ripe for punishment; because
it had been prophesied by other masters of abstract art, it should be before the Sixth Annual
beware. Because they had not thought of today.

And it was a nice serene spring day, and they drove with trumpets and trombones in the forest,
and the horses neighing and the armor rattled, and the unsheathed and spears Sword flashed in
the sun, the queen but sparkled most brightly, its fine Clothes and all her jewelry perched high
in the car. And then they rang the Hussa forward to hunting and cheers and blaring horns of
the hunters and the shrill Voices of the dogs. And it was a lion and a boar drove past through
the ranks, and but they were not terrified, and stood every man laid
on his stand, and slew the monster.

But not for long, and there was a terror to them was too powerful. A terrible Wolf went out
of the thicket to a green Anger and howled so awful that hunters, dogs and riders tore him.
The wolf ran how to shoot an arrow from a bow no he did not run but flew by the men and Horses
there, and no one thought that he was wearing bow, spear and iron terrible, so and so was the
monster standing wuethig he bared his throat to the sparkling. The Queen, which saw him leap
at her car, screaming for help! Help! The women screamed and fell fainted, many men also shouted
as the cowards: None resisted the wolf, he jumped A long long jump to the high car, tore down
the proud woman, and washed Teeth and jaws in their blood. The others had all fled, or stood
and held from a distance.

And wonder of wonders! as if to pull himself together and incur the animal, they did not see it,
but where it had just been standing still, the form arose from a nice horse-taming Youth.
The men were amazed if the Magic, but some shrugged their arms as if they wanted to hunt him
as a second monster and felling. As suddenly jumped in front of an old man, was with the course,
the chancellor of the empire, and forbade them, and called over a loud voice in my gray hair,
men, stop! you do not know to whom ye will encounter - and before they could remember, he was
lying before the young man on the earth, and kissed his knees and hands and cried, Sey us
to thee, thou noble flower of a noble father, you again risen are
in your beauty! rejoice, O people, your son has come back right Koenig,
and this is now your king.

And these words many ran up and saw the prince huldeten again, and as their Lord, and the others
did likewise. And all were at the same time full of terror and wonder and joy, and thought no
more of the torn Queen yet the wolf, for he was the wolf, which they did not know.

The young king commanded all that she followeth him and with him in the castle of his Father's hesitation;
he was called at once quiet and hunting horns and trumpets, which alarmed just yet the forest
and the deer had to move blow his merry collection. And when he was at home and looked from
the battlements of his fathers, as it were the tears in the eyes and he wept both painful and joyous,
for he remembered everything now Jammers and again as heavy past, where it as a dull and brutish
dream on it Located had. And now he suddenly became pale, and he was the chancellor and the chief
men To report what had happened to him and that he only carried the lifeblood of the old horrible
Witch, the orders of his stepmother and their queen, had again can be changed. And the rumor of this
amazing miracle was soon in the city and all the people out, and
they rejoiced that the beloved king's son came back and that The Queen,
who hates all of Wolfszaehnen that they themselves created, was torn.

But when the Prince is now gradually recovered and about the prudent, had since dropped he found
it hard on the heart, where the royal princess Aurora's well-beloved sister Being like and
whether they can still probably put in any animal skin or duvet; for now he remembered her wedding
day sadly. And he asked and had to ask, but all nothing and no one was able to report something
from her. Since the prince was very sad again and carefully, but God soon changed this sadness into joy.

For
as this hunting in the forest and Wolfslaerm roars, was also to trust the poor yield Prince
from just east of the country in his thicket, and the small sweet Nachtigallvoegelchen held in silence
hidden under the green leaves of its oak. It took but a wonderful Feeling through his heart,
when the thirsty wolf tooth of his brother, the lifeblood of old queen had slurped. To be lost
now the hunt and the forest became silent and the sun had gone down,
as the prince came out of his dark ravine below its green oak and
leaned against the trunk at all sad and moistened the grass with his
silent Tears, as he nursed every night, and it seems so much melancholy
to be-ing around his heart than usual.

The birds in the branches above him began to sing just after his Habit, and it appeared to
him also that it even sang differently than usual, and much more important and enigmatical and
almost like a human voice. And the man came to a shuddering, and almost full of fear, he called
up into the branches: birds, bird, tell me, can you Talk? And Nachtigallvoegelein replied in
the affirmative, as people tend to answer, and it even surprised that it could speak, and started
for joy about it to To cry and was silent a long time.

Then it did his beak again, and told the Man with audible human voice, the whole story of his
Verwandelung and Verwandelung of his brother, and by what miracle he had become a man again.
For It was her everything now become clear in a moment, as if a spirit she zugefluestert. But the
man shout for joy in his soul when he heard her speech, and he pondered much in the back and
forth, and the little bird flew trusting him and played around, but although they and all things
light again recognized and knew of him she did not know who he was. And he lured the bird, and
cajoled him and kosete nice, and asked that it ought to come to him, he would put it in a garden,
where a perpetual spring bloom and never a Hawk nor a rustle tose Jaeger, the Sey but much funnier,
as so re flying in wild groves and tremble before the winter and from hunters and Raubvoegeln
and snares. The birds but did not hear of it and praised his freedom and his green green oak
here and talked and played and whistled and fluttered around the man and had his little Attention
since it is gebehrdete, as if he were in another thought.

But see what thoughts he has had! For before the bird was aware, had it captures the man at the
feet and ran hastily them, jumped on his horse and flew to the roaring gallop, Sey as a hurricane
behind him, an inn, which he in Town near the castle knew, and ordered a lonely room, where
he deals with the bird imprisoned. The bird, as it looked like he pulled out the keys and other
Character of a prison made began to weep piteously and beg that he could fly, for it appeared to him
at all anxious and fearful locked in a room and it had to think of lush green trees and the
sweet freedom. But the man made from the tears and entreaties of the little bird and wanted
nothing can stop it. Since the little bird grew angry and began to transform itself so that it
startled the man that he opened doors and windows and would be glad if the birds fly away.
So did it modified to tigers and lions, otters and to snakes, scorpions and tarantulas to
themselves a hideous dragon, wove herself to the man and with his poisonous tongue drove. But all this
did not frighten him but he stood firm on his mind, and the little bird had to lose all his
work and then a bird will be. And the man in deep thoughts, for he remembered something from
an old tale. And he pulled out a knife pocket and a hole cut in the little finger of his left
hand, which is always the liveliest Heart and soul has.

And it trickles out blood, and he took the blood, and rubbed the little birds Head and body with
it. And no sooner had he done that, so was the miracle was finished. The bird was in the minute
was all the most beautiful virgin, and the prince soon to her feet and kissed her hands decorously
and respectfully. The nightingale was now Princess Aurora and again become recognized in the
man of her fiance again, Prince from the east country. She was still as young and beautiful as her
to six years time Verwandelung been. Because that the transformations inherent to the years
that one is remains, do not make him older but a thousand years are no longer here than a second.

One
can imagine how these two have got, because when two hearts in love, the remained faithful
to each other, come together after a long time, that is probably the biggest Joy on earth.
But they lost no time but could announce the Kings, it Seyen two foreign prince from a far country
come to his court and coveted princely lodging. And the king himself, that he bewillkommete,
and recognized his dear sister Aurora and his dear friend the prince from the east country,
and rejoiced beyond measure, and all the people rejoiced with him, so everything that regained
the kingdom and not with strangers remain.

And after a few days ago he sat on the royal crown and began to reign in Instead of his father,
his sister but he was a very magnificent wedding with dances and festivals and medieval games, they also
got together with her prince on land and people a even handsome compensation, which they almost
mogten live like kings. The Princess Aurora but had asked her brother to the forest in which
they merry as so many birds and many a sad day was moved about, and he had given him her love.
You there built himself a proud royal castle on the creek where she had sat so often and had
sung, and the green and thick oak came to be in the middle of her castle garden and yet many a year
after it has budded, so that their great grandchildren have played under and have shaded themselves.
But they let go the commandment is to enable the forest for all time stay in its natural glory,
they also gave the small Singvoegelein Peace and banned all the more
gesture, in this sacred precincts snares and traps to provide and
attack the little ones with any gun.

And her brother as a great and pious king reigns, but it has with its valiant Gemal up in
a snow-white Age in happy love lived and seen many children and grandchildren, until they
finally the blessing of God and man is asleep gently. This has also been considered since their
time among their children and descendants, that the eldest prince of her house and always Rossignol
The eldest princess always Philomela was baptized. She wanted namely a pious remembrance pens for
all the wonderful times of misfortune that had befallen her since her into a Nightingale has
been transformed. For these words mean in the language of their country, leading to teutsch nightingale
is called, and Rossignol is actually called Rose Bird - for the nightingales
sing mostly at the time of roses - and Philomela songs girlfriend,
and the nightingale teutsche Name means but as far as Nachtsaengerin,
and is probably the finest.

The large bays.

The farmer Hans Diebenkorn, I do not remember, lived in the village where he had a son, the
name was Joe, that was a bad boy full of uncouth wildness and Schalk tricks that nobody was restrained.
His father was a quiet and decent man and exhorted chastised him often and much, priest and schoolmaster
planed and carved on it with the Seriously the admonition and the severity of the sentence:
the boy was with the ashes and lye of remorse and repentance and the unburned ashes of memory,
rather than the green trees a very dark blue inseparable Vergissmeinnichtchen grows enough rubbed
and washed - it it could not do all of this soft and supple, Jochen Jochen remained, he remained
the unruly and disobedient fellow who he was, and where he could run a string Schalk To leave was
his joy. It was therefore still the worst and made his father the Most of the concern, that
Jochen was also unruly forces and in his fifteenth years has been measured with each funniest servants
in the village in the rings and bellows. The lush and overbearing body of the discipline was
to grow out early. Added to this, that Jochen is a very nice could and was slender boy who use
the mouth as well and as comfortable doing that no Person under that cap the suspected rogue.
The better it was his practical jokes and pranks Schalk execute with others, for he could thus be-ing
tiresome that even the most intelligent and clever People were executed by him. The father, who
knew his bird, held it now of course much to work on, but as he had only a moment, was also
the villain here and immediately in all the streets shouting about it. Meanwhile, says an old proverb:
The pitcher goes long to water until it breaks, and that happened even with Jochen.

He had his special pleasure, old people who passed by on the way,
and arms, their bread before the doors compassionate people sought
to tease, and did it again and again how many times his father had
chastised him about it too hard and remember, that it was no greater
Sin, as those who mock who are miserable because their misery came
from God and God they have special reason under his protection.

Now it happened that once followed a poor old beggar woman came with a basket on the Head and
a sack on his back. She went even do in an amateurish way, and miserable, was all three step
quietly and aechzete and coughed a lot. Jochen saw them coming and made itself they offered
her a friendly hello. She was friendly and asked how they over a deep stream that flowed from
it, should come into the village. O here, Mother! Just come with! Jochen said, here is a bridge,
I will show you. And he went, and she followed him, and he led them on a fairly narrow and
fluctuating board that over the creek was placed. When the old woman was in the middle of the
"board was started because the one with Jochen End of it with all his strength to swing - he
gebehrdete but when he stagger - and rocked so bad that the board capsized and dropped the old
woman with basket and bag into the stream, so long she was. He jumped up to now, and helped
her out of the water and behaved as if he were innocent in the matter, and whined grieflachte * quite
hardy. The old woman thanked him yet left and remember nothing, took off their wet clothes and
hung them on bushes to that they dried in the sun, and then started to enable them to boredom displaced
people moving and plaintive voice to sing some songs. Jochen, who had run away came soon again and
listened, and the songs he liked and he sat down beside her and said with a laugh: O Mother,
sing me a verse! I will do, my son said the old woman, but you have to give eight-and keep your verse.
And they sang: -------------------------- * When you call out laughing in some places reached
grieflachen, in others, the last apparently correct.

We have no word in our language, the same, a mischievous laugh, what hide under beards and lips
like and yet the secret joy about external accident can not bear to express, as this was sitting
indian word. It expresses the gestures, hovering between tears and laughter in the middle of scorn
around the mouth. The first syllable is in the English language the way, where it means sorrow
sadness

.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Solemn indeed is the responsibility of a Christian minister, and every follower of the
Lamb bears that office privately, and should be earnest in prayer that public ministers may
do the work of evangelists, not only by insisting upon the necessity of the new birth and its
solemn reality, the happiness of a close walk with God, and the glorious rest that remaineth,
but to visit the poor and rich at their own habitations, in sickness and health, and watch
over their people as those that must give an account.--Ed.

[2] 'With a curse,' is from the Puritan version.--Ed.

[3] Wretched are the persecutors, like a troubled sea, casting up mire and filth, vainly opposing
the sinner's duty of personal inquiry for salvation, and harassing him if he refuses to submit
to human dogmas, creeds, catechisms, and liturgies--the inventions of men. Although the power
is curtailed, the disposition remains the same; restless and unwearied, they stick at nothing
to glut their revenge upon the disciples of Christ. But all in vain; the gospel spreads although
the persecutor kicks; it is against the sharp goads; he rushes upon Jehovah's buckler and crushes
himself; is wretched in this life and lost to all eternity; unless, as in the case of Saul,
unspeakable mercy arrests him--Ed.

[4] The lions growled and roared upon the pilgrims in Bunyan's days, to prevent their making
a public profession of Christ by uniting with one of his churches; represented in the Pilgrim's
Progress by the palace justly called Beautiful. Many were then kept back, to their serious
injury or ruin, by fear of enormous penalties or imprisonment, but NOW, what keeps you back,
O Christian. Fears for the loss of property, liberty, or life, would have been a wretched plea
for the loss of the soul, how much less the fear of ridicule from ungodly friends or relatives.--Ed.

[5] A familiar expression; 'rub up,' prepare for action. 'Put on thy harness,' an obsolete
term for armour, weapons, and habiliments of war; the spiritual warfare, 'put on the whole
armour of God.'--Ed.

[6] Would you be ready to die in peace? then seek a close walk and communion with God in time
of health. A life of faith ensures a life of glory. Live and walk in the Spirit; as strangers
and pilgrims abstain from fleshly lusts. To live thus is Christ; to die is gain, the more sudden
the more joyful and glorious.--Ed.

[7] This meaning of the word 'touch' is now obsolete. It refers to touching the seal on a deed,
called sealing it; a solemn, deliberate pledge to keep close to your covenants. 'I keep touch
with my promise.' Sir Thomas More.--Ed.

[8] 'To make both ends meet,' is a proverbial expression, meaning that our expenses should
not exceed our income; but, in this more solemn sense we should fulfil our daily duties as
they approach, as all our moments have duties assigned to them. Omissions can never be recovered;
hence the necessity of forgiveness for Christ's sake, who fulfilled every duty, and hence the
necessity of perpetual watchfulness.--Ed.

[9] How delightfully does this exclamation flow from the lips of the pious patriarch, overcome
by his exertion in this solemn death-bed scene. He pauses, and then, with his recovering breath,
appeals to heaven--'I have waited for thy salvation, O Lord.' Poor old man, the cold sweat
of death is on thy brow, the angels stand ready to open the gate of the celestial city; finish
thy solemn instructions to thy children, and then thou shalt enter upon the fruition of all
thy patient waiting, thy fearing, fighting, trembling, doubting, shall be absorbed in immeasurable,
eternal bliss.--Ed.

[10] This is a very illustrative allusion. When a spinner has wound up all his material, the
technical term is, 'The bottom is wound.' When a poor spinner by age or infirmity, is incapable
of work, it would be said, 'Ah! his bottom is wound.' In this text, Jacob had finally made
an end of all his earthly duties, and had now only to close his eyes for the last time upon
the world.--Ed.

[11] These are solemn and most weighty arguments to press upon us the fulfilment of our daily
duties. How incomprehensible are the ways of God. His love is proved by bitterly convicting
us of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Like Christian and Hopeful in Doubting Castle,
sometimes so overwhelming as to drive us to the verge of despair and self-destruction. We fall
not down the precipice, for still there is hope and pardon in his bosom, and at the proper
time it will be revealed.--Ed.

[12] That preventeth; 'letteth' is from the old verb to let or hinder, as used Romans 1:13.--Ed.
'He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen.' He who is diligent to
finish his work may reply with truth, 'Even so, come, Lord Jesus.'--Ed.

[14] Bunyan was in his politics a thorough loyalist. When a young man he even fought at the
siege of Leicester, when it was besieged by the royal army. Probably the horrible cruelties
practised upon the peaceful inhabitants, by the cavaliers, at the taking of that city, induced
him to leave the service. His pastor, J. Gifford, had also served in the royal army as an officer;
both of them narrowly escaped. This may account for Bunyan's high monarchial principles, they
appear very prominently in many of his works.--Ed.

[15] Many extraordinary tales are told of the nightingale, as to their great memory, and facility
in imitating the human voice. Sitting in thorns is more for protection than penance. See Goldsmith's
Animated Nature. It was a generally received opinion that the nightingale, to keep himself
awake in the night, sat on a tree of thorn, so that if he nodded he would be pricked in the
breast. The learned and witty Dr. Thomas Fuller thus alludes to it:--'I am sure the nightingale
which would wake will not be angry with the thorn which pricketh her breast when she noddeth.'
How useful would it be if a thorn could be so placed as to prick those who nod at church!--Ed.

[16] A painted figure of a horse, behind which the sportsman stealthily approaches the game.

   'One underneath his horse, to get a shoot doth stalk
    Another over dykes upon his stilts doth walk.'
           --Drayton's Polyolbion, vol. iii. p. 25.--Ed.

[17] So dress as to pass without being noticed; neither precise nor formal, slovenly nor dandyish;
dress like a man or woman. Conduct yourself as one that fears God.--Ed.

[18] The head having been crowned with thorns, it is unsuitable that the feet should tread
on rose leaves.--Mason.

[19] How very striking is this expression. O! that it may assist in riveting upon our souls
a vivid remembrance of the Saviour's sufferings.--Ed.

[20] Some Pharisees, falsely called by the Romish churches 'saints,' have claimed merit from
associating with dirt and filth, and vermin, beggars, and vagabonds, upon dunghills, to show
their contempt of the world! All this was to gain the applause of the world. God's saints will
associate with the salt of the earth, with God's fearers, who whether rich or poor, are equally
despised by the world.--Ed.

[21] Reader, do not mistake this to mean a piece of wood shaped as a cross. It means cherish,
love, be conformed to the conduct or image of Christ, follow him in reproaches and revilings,
and count it your honour to suffer for his sake. 'Kiss it,' has the same meaning as the words
of the Psalmist, 'Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish.' It is the soul mentally kissing
the Saviour, and not a bit of wood, which would then be an idol, inflicting the deep guilt
of idolatry.--Ed.

[22] Upon the opening of the sixth seal in the book of Revelation, there was 'a great earthquake,
and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon as blood.' A preternatural and
awful darkness broods over nature, preparatory to its final dissolution. Thus Satan darkens
the things above to the natural man, so that he cannot discern spiritual things, while those
of time and sense are magnified and multiplied in his estimation.--Ed.

[23] This refers to the phylacteries worn by every Jew while in his daily prayers. These are
long strips of leather, having small boxes containing the law minutely written in Hebrew, worn
upon the forehead and wrist, and bound round the fingers. A custom founded on Exodus 13:9,
16; Proverbs 7:3. That the Divine law should direct the head and fingers, as representing the
mind and conduct, so would Bunyan have all Christians carry, at all times, in the mind and
conduct, the riches and righteousness of Christ.--Ed.

[24] There are no idlers in God's Israel, every one has his appointed work to fulfil against
his appointed day. Christian, watch against idleness.

   'For Satan has some mischief still
    For idle hands to do.'--Ed.

[25] Godliness, saith Paul, has the 'promise of the life that now is, and of that which is
to come.' This should be more dwelt upon by our ministers, as Bunyan sets the example. The
mind of a Christian has the richest enjoyments, however his body may be persecuted, for over
that only the enemy has power. A prison may be the gate of heaven. With God as our Father,
a wall of fire round about, and the glory in our midst, 'what can we want beside?'--Ed.

[26] To tender; to care for, to guard. 'He had provoked others to tender and seek the glory
of God.'--Udal. Not frequently used in this sense.--Ed.

[27] How tenderly does the Psalmist exhibit the love of God to his chosen under this figure,
'Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness.' He will never leave nor forsake them; and, when
heart and flesh shall fail, he will guide them and receive them to his glory. 'Wonders of grace
to God belong.' Christian women! with such an example, can you hesitate to go and make the
bed of a poor sick and afflicted neighbour?--Ed.

[28]

   'Jesus can make a dying bed
        Feel soft as downy pillows are,
    While on his breast I lean my head,
        And breath my life out sweetly there.'--Dr. Watts.

***

THE DESIRE OF THE RIGHTEOUS GRANTED;

OR,

A DISCOURSE OF THE RIGHTEOUS MAN'S DESIRES.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR

As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the state of a man's heart known by his desires. The
desires of the righteous are the touchstone or standard of Christian sincerity--the evidence
of the new birth--the spiritual barometer of faith and grace--and the springs of obedience.
Christ and him crucified is the ground of all our hopes--the foundation upon which all our
desires after God and holiness are built--and the root by which they are nourished. It is from
this principle of Divine life which flows from Christ to his members, that these desires and
struggles after holiness of thought and conduct arise, and are kept alive. They prove a fountain
of consolation to the harassed and tried believer; for if we are in the sense of this scripture
'righteous,' we shall have those desires to enjoy the presence of God on earth, and with him
felicity in heaven, which the voice of the Omnipotent declareth SHALL be granted. O! the blessedness
of those in whose hearts are planted 'the desires of the righteous.'

This brings us to the most important of all the subjects of self-examination--am I one of the
'righteous'? or, in other words, 'am I born again?' Upon this solemn heart-trying inquiry hangs
all our hopes of escape from misery and ascension to glory--a kingdom, a crown, a bright, a
happy, an eternal inheritance, on the one hand, or the gloomy abodes of wretchedness on the
other hand, are for ever to be decided. What are our desires? To guide our anxious inquiries
into this all-important subject, our author unlocks the heavenly treasures, and in every point
furnishes us with book, and chapter, and verse, that we may carefully and prayerfully weigh
all that he displays in the unerring scales of the sanctuary. A desire after the presence of
God--of conformity to his image and example--for a greater hatred of sin--yea, as Bunyan expresses
it, a desire to desire more of those blessed fruits of the Spirit, inspires the inquirer with
the cheering hope that he has passed from death unto life--that he has been born again, and
has been made righteous. And if, as we progress in the Divine life, our experience of the delights
of communion with God enables us to say with David, 'My soul panteth,' or crieth, or, as the
margin of our Bibles have, brayeth, 'yea, thirsteth after God,' however we may be assaulted
by the enemies within and without, we may say with confidence, 'Why art thou disquieted, O
my soul? hope thou in God, for I SHALL yet praise him.'

Deeply are the churches of Christ indebted to the Holy Spirit for having assisted his honoured
servant to write this treatise; and we are under great obligation to his friend, Charles Doe,
for having handed it down to us, as he found it prepared for the press, with other excellent
treatises, among the author's papers after his decease. It abounds with those striking ideas
peculiar to the works of the author of the Pilgrim's Progress; most faithful home thrusts at
conscience, which those who really desire to know themselves will greatly prize. It has been
very properly observed that the words used by the author, as descriptive of the text, may,
with great propriety, be applied to this treatise--'It is a sharp and smart description' of
the desires of a righteous man.

The desires of the righteous are very graphically impersonated and described. They reach beyond
time and peep into eternity. 'The righteous have desires that reach further than this world,
desires that have so long a neck as to look into the world to come.' 'So forcible and mighty
are they in operation'; 'is there not life and mettle in them? They would have me in the Hexenkueche
certainly receive loving, but she saw no horses foot, and around me with her through my to legitimate
arms, I do an indecent gesture:

  
  "My friend, learn to understand well This is the way to deal with
witches.

"

  On the Brocken on Walpurgis Night, I'm much
  better known.

Walking suits me not, therefore, I say to the doctor:

"You ask nothing
after a broomstick?

  I wished that 's tough stand. "
  

Here, too,

      "Draw me from a knee
  band But the horses foot here at home with honor.

"

       In order to this, the common
  rabble to show me right, I'm dancing with a fairy, and talk with
her in dirty jokes that can only by dashes

"The 'hat' a ----- So
- it was, I liked it's "

dare to suggest.

I'm even in Faust's eyes a loathsome, spiteful fellow, who

"--------
Cold and insolent Humiliated him in front of himself.

  "-
  
  I have no doubt of ugly, unpleasant
  face and figure, what with mild Expression
  marks, intriguing, and in common life,
  to name a hardened rogues wont.
  
  Therefore, Gretchen says to me:
  
  "The man whom you have
  there with you, If I hated in deeper inward
  soul.

It has given me in my life Then nothing given a stab to the heart
As the human face unconstitutional .-- His presence makes my blood,
I have in front of the people with secret anguish .-- - If he comes
through the door once, Does he always bargain mocking And half enraged
.-- He has written on the forehead, He does not like to love a soul
"& c.

Therefore, I am also near:

"And she understands the physiognomy
masterly In my presence she is, she does not know how; My M aeskchen
as prophesied hidden meaning, They felt that I most certainly a genius,
Maybe even probably am the devil.

  "
  
  This should be with Gretchen idea? If it is caught in
  the vicinity of a being who just says, denied
   their God?

Is it an unpleasant odor, a sultry air that you close to make my anxious? Is it childish sense
of guesses the devil sooner than the already fallen man, such as dogs and horses shy away from
nightly nightmare when it also not see? No - it just only my face that makes them quite timid,
so timid, that it says:

"- Where he only comes to us I mean even I did not love you anymore.

  "-
  

Why this now? Why should the devil cut a face that inspires mistrust everyone, the shrink, rather
than the sin, according to the ordinary terms, is enticing, can be irritating to see.

Who has not seen the wonderful outlines of Goethe's Faust by the brilliant Retsch! Certainly, even
the devil must be in such a work of art have joy. A few strokes, a few Dots are the sweet,
thoughtful face of the child, chaste Gretchen, Faust in the perfect flower of the man standing
next to her, what dignity even in the fallen Goettersohn!


The world is also divided by other general terms, as by these--believers, unbelievers; saints,
sinners; good, bad; children of God, and children of the wicked one, &c. These, I say, are
general terms, and comprehend not this or that sect, or order of each, but the whole. The believer,
saint, good, and child of God, are one--to wit, the righteous; the unbeliever, the sinner,
the bad, and the child of the devil, is one--to wit, the wicked; as also the text expresses
it. So that I say, the text, or these two terms in it, comprehend all men; the one all that
shall be saved, the other all that shall be damned for ever in hell-fire (Psa 9:17, 11:6).
The wicked; who is he but the man that loves not God, nor to do his will? The righteous; who
is he but the man that loveth God, and his holy will, to do it?

Of the wicked there are several sorts, some more ignorant, some more knowing; the more ignorant
of them are such as go to be executed, as the ox goes to the slaughter, or as a fool to the
correction of the stocks; that is, as creatures whose ignorance makes them as unconcerned,
while they are going down the stairs to hell. But, alas! their ignorance will be no plea for
them before the bar of God; for it is written, 'It is a people of no understanding; therefore
he that made them will not have mercy on them, and he that formed them will show them no favour'
(Isa 27:11; Prov 7:22).

Though, I must confess, the more knowing the wicked is, or the more light and goodness such
a one sins against, the greater will his judgment be; these shall have greater damnation: it
shall be more tolerable at the judgment for Sodom than for them (Luke 10:12, 20:47). There
is a wicked man that goes blinded, and a wicked man that goes with his eyes open to hell; there
is a wicked man that cannot see, and a wicked man that will not see the danger he is in; but
hell-fire will open both their eyes (Luke 16:23).

There are also several sorts, if I may so express myself, of those that are truly righteous,
as children, young men, fathers, or saints that fear God, both small and great (Rev 11:18;
1 John 2). Some have more grace than some, and some do better improve the grace they have than
others of their brethren do; some also are more valiant for the truth upon the earth than others
of their brethren are; yea, some are so swallowed up with God, and love to his word and ways,
that they are fit to be a pattern or example in holiness to all that are about them; and some
again have their light shining so dim, that they render themselves suspicious to their brethren,
whether they are of the number of those that have grace or no.[1] But being gracious they shall
not be lost, although such will at the day of reward suffer loss; for this is the will of the
Father that sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world, 'That of all which he had given him
he should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day' (John 6:37-39; 1 Cor 3:15).

[Second.] In the next place, we are here presented with some of the qualities of the wicked
and the righteous; the wicked has his fears, the righteous has his desires. The wicked has
his fears. 'The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him; but the desire of the righteous
shall be granted.' Indeed, it seems to the godly that the wicked feareth not, nor doth he after
a godly sort; for he that feareth God aright must not be reputed a wicked man. The wicked,
through the pride of his countenance, declareth that he feareth not God aright, because he
doth not graciously call upon him; but yet for all that, the wicked at times are haunted, sorely
haunted, and that with the worst of fears. 'Terrors,' says Bildad, 'shall make him afraid on
every side.' And again, 'His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall
bring him to the king of terrors' (Job 18:11-14). 'The morning is to them even as the shadow
of death; if one knew them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death' (Job 24:14-17).
O! none can imagine what fearful plights a wicked man is in sometimes; though God in his just
judgment towards them suffers them again and again to stifle and choke such awakenings, from
a purpose to reserve them unto the day of judgment to be punished (2 Peter 2:7-9).

[Third.] In the third place, as the wicked has his fears, so the righteous has his desires.
'The desire of the righteous shall be granted'; but this must not be taken exclusively, as
if the wicked had nothing but fears, and the righteous nothing but desires. For, both by Scripture
and experience also, we find that the wicked has his desires, and the righteous man his fears.

1. For the wicked, they are not without their desires. 'Let me die the death of the righteous,
and let my last end be like his,' was the desire of wicked Balaam (Num 23:10), and another
place saith, 'the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire'; that he is for heaven as well as
the best of you all, but yet, even then, 'he blesseth the covetous, whom the Lord abhorreth'
(Psa 10:3). Wicked men have their desires and their hopes too, but the hope and desire of unjust
men perisheth (Prov 11:7, 14:32). Yea, and though they look and long, too, all the day long,
with desires of life and glory, yet their fears, and them only, shall come upon them; for they
are the desires of the righteous that shall be granted (Psa 112:10).

The desires of the wicked want a good bottom; they flow not from a sanctified mind, nor of
love to the God, or the heaven now desired; but only from such a sense as devils have of torments,
and so, as they, they cry out, 'I beseech thee torment me not' (Luke 8:28, 16:24).

Their fears, therefore, have a strong foundation; they have also matter to work upon, which
is guilt and justice, the which they shall never be able to escape, without a miracle of grace
and mercy (Heb 2:3). They are also poachers, for they like to eat meat. They
are allowed but the Wild cases with no gun, but they knit their own networks, the no one can
see, wherein they catch it. Therefore they are also enemies of the hunter and have Jaeger has
many bewitched his gun that he can not meet. To believe but until this day many people that
have greater control over them than black iron, prayed about what was or what was in the Christenhaenden.
Such blacks live here not at all.

In two of the white mountains live, and those are the kindest, gentlest and most beautiful all subterranean,
subtle and graceful of terms and gestures, and just as fine and lovable inside the mind. These whites
are very innocent and pure and not tease anyone, even in jest, but her life is light and delicate,
as the life of flowers and stars, by what they think also the most use. This cute little sitting
the winter, when it is rough and desolate and cold on the ground, completely still in its mountains
and were doing nothing differently than they affect the delicate work of silver and gold, that
the eyes of most Mortals are too gross to see them, they can see, however, are particularly fine
and delicate spirits. So they live through the dreary winter, when it's out there unhold in
their hidden Klausen. But as soon as spring now and the entire summer living it here in the sunshine
and starlight, very merry and then do nothing when forward and make another joy. Once it also
the first to germinate and sprout Lenze beginning at trees and flowers, they are scurrying
out of their mountains and take on the Veins and stems, and of these the flowers and flower
buds, where they sit even gracefully and listen. But at night when people sleep walk, out,
and wrap their merry Reihentaenze in the green hills and around streams and springs, making the
allerlieblichste and delicate music, listening to what people traveling so often and admire it,
because they, the players not in this case. These little white are allowed out during the day and always,
whenever they want, but not in society but individually, and they must be transformed. Sun fly many
of them about as colorful birds or butterflies or snow white dove and young children and adults
often bring Beautiful delicate and heavenly thoughts Dreams from which they do not know how to
get them. This is known to be Quite often in dreams, when they travel in a secret message. So
you have some Afflicted comforted and refreshed some good lovers. Who won your love, in life is
very happy, and if they do not so rich in treasures and goods than the others underground, so
they make rich in dreams and songs and merry Visions and fantasies. And these are probably
the best treasures that can attract a man.

The old castle at Loebnitz

Nearby Loebnitz through green fields, which hinschlaengelt, the River
Barth, congruent a small oak forest with a trickling brook and through
the most beautiful and most dense Haselbueschen which prevent almost
all fall under the brown fruits of their jewelry.

On the south side of the grove is a brick, and at the northern end rises height of a castle, the
ramparts surrounding a round cut, in which the elegiac and magical shrubs buckthorn, and hawthorn,
elder and Alf-Ranke, nettle and nightshade festgesiedelt be had and the rising Andri receiver
almost made difficult, nor had the foxes in the Wall and its old walls durchminiert to their
underground homes. This ancient castle stood opposite side on the right bank of the river
near a Wobbelkow stately Huenengrab be gruenbemoostes main, whose summit is the city with Barth
its red roofs and in the countryside about half a dozen and a half Kirchtuerme could look over
hundreds of farms and villages. This was after the debris Eichwaeldchen Castle of those commonly
called just the old castle. This had now issued an adventure by which all mouths and mouths
of people made the rounds: A young, pretty girl, Ziegler took care of what the cows in the
bush, was suddenly disappeared or run away, and it happened that the voices of the saga again
wake her up, the often lost their Time dreams, and sleeps, and then double again in the vitality
of the human ear sounds. And in the following way the narrative of the Christian Gaertner was
gasoline:

"Lord, they say something of the whore of Ziegler, a fortnight ago on the bright translucent lunch
is gone and not returned. People whisper, and the old Sweden Stursberg Wobbelkow boy who ran after
a calf, have seen it: A sailor in colorful, red-striped jacket is
gone for a walk with her at the edge of the forest and has a Flowers
in my hand, and they believe that they have lured away and to his
ship taken.

O Lord Jemin! The vessel, after which the girl goes! This much is true, the colored Jack Stursberg
the young will have probably seen a walk, but my sir as far as imagining the stupid people,
they did not go under sail. I know well, where it is, and Jochen Eigen, they always blame the
gentleman knows it will still improves, but is ashamed and could not be said, and reveals nothing
of his family secrets, as if he once watched a little too deep into the glass. "And he made
from these words of Christian Gaertner even a strange and astonishing face.

"Well, gas, produce only with your stories, now that I hope will one's probably come to light
, Why do you need to come in the name of old castle so beautiful speeches and gestures. Here,
put it somewhere that you never wanted in the hunt in this bush in and with light, thieving cat
walked on his sneaking around the edge or you in proper distance instruct your body, let.
So you have, than the beautiful Mamselle from Barth youngest then
Picking went nuts and wanted to go with yet another pretty young women,
so strange Faces cut and they enticed to walk in the forest on the
Löbnitz Kamp, where can aufjagen among the rabbits and foxes Pfriemenbueschen
well, but no shake nuts.

There must be something special with the bush. And now, out with it! I leave you this time not
happening. "

"Yes, sir, this is a bush you! Here could tell a lot, and who is a cute Beautiful wife and daughter,
has let the other women in this bush Picking go nuts. I say only this: how many little nice maid
would have to tell her heartache when they are not ashamed! I still remember my father's told
me - there are probably a few stairs years ago - there were some beautiful maiden from Barth
came to nuts To pick and they have disappeared here in the woods. It has disappeared and the day
searched for weeks on how to find pins, in bright sunlight and lantern light, but no Trace of
them found, no one has seen them again.

My father says it's great Lamentation and sorrow for them have been - because there were children
of respectable and wealthy people - and last sounded at Kentz and Starkov and in all the churches
around with the bells around her, as if a wolf or a bear eat them. But that's not here, I know
well who the wolf is. And yet, strangely enough's revealed: they were not eaten by wild animals
but after eight to ten years of oblivion and disappearance of a sudden they are still fresh
and bright again occurred among the living and have to remember anything . Let But people still
have a kind Grauel been transformed in front of them and have their virginity not legally married,
and the poor pretty girl was the last to die as old maids must.

And now I will tell what Jochen has told me own, these stories of the best white, but he will
lead them to tell the Lord. And then the Lord will understand, why I can pretty young women
and girls are not so easily run into the woods want and why I was sick the other day when I got the night
at the Burrow on the castle wall, where they had dug, sentry posts and the young foxes, as if
they wanted out should push back.

Before long, long years Jochen was specially * great-grandfather, a magnificent, proud gentleman,
as gorgeous and filthy rich, he bridle his horse with jeweled and
in a golden stirrups sat.

This had Ruegen in the country and here in the country, many Pommer beautiful farms, forests and
farmers, so many that you could not pick them up - a magnificent, proud man, who drove with six
men from the box, fro a runner himself and his horses jump in long strands left. But it was
a wild, presumptuous man, nothing of Wanted to know God's words and ways, a great hunter and
horseman, and a hideous women Jaeger, Falk, like the pigeons, watching for the beautiful maidens.
Own this has in those ancient times and also Loebnitz Diwitz Wobbelkow
and heard, and here at Loebnitz he has forest had a magnificent castle
castle with many towers and windows, where he was some nice Swarmed
by night and drunk and with his merry companions in wine and women
bankettiert added.

And there on the high Huenengrabe on the opposite bank, where the road between Redebas Wobbelkow
and he has a magnificent, diamonds from stones hewn vain pleasure palace built portrayed. Since
it is often hingaloppiert and has sat there and Kieker one on the roads been looking around,
whether its wild eavesdroppers and thieves, he had been sent to capture beautiful women, not somewhere
galloped with prey. These poor prisoners, they have then by night time, find other good Christian
people To sleep on the castle in the forest and dragged hidden there that neither dog nor Hahn
then has crowed. So the evil man his wild, wicked creature has driven many a long year, and God gave
him many a day has had free rein. However, this was in his blood, and Jochen, which the gentleman
should be long gone, whose grandfather has a poor weaver was - the Lord does not believe what
the old people know to tell from how cruel the young in his years has chased the pretty girls.
He's now just wants to not can remember more, but these lascivious Edelmannsnuecken he still
has enough in itself. Finally but the old wild Jaegers has come day, it has become war, plague
and hunger and Moskowiterzeit and Kalmueckenzeit, I know not the name right, but a cruel evil
time has come, and there is the one villain has been taken by her grief: its castles and houses
burned, emptied his barns and storage, driven away his cattle. Since he has had to bear recently
in the castle and hide and just learn to live Like other poor people. There is his statement at
the highest and supreme Reckoner over have been full, and he hit him with his lightning and
its magnificent Suendenhaus lighted, and he and his wives are all white ashes burned, and all of
the Glory, where else violins and trumpets sounded, and day and night was bankettiert lie barely
a few stones there, and now the foxes and martens and owls are the only night musicians. --------------------------
* The capital, however, are an old aristocratic family in the Island of Ruegen had but now long
since gone out and lost. Possible, that Jochen Own, which they want to like the gentleman was
out of that race. I have neither the desire yet had occasion to investigate its origin diplomatic.
These stories imposes itself by the way back to the familiar experience that farmers and servants
in memory some wrongs and injustices that have befallen them from evil nobles, by the friendly
men to forget to experience a joy and delight, when Fairy tale they tell is how the accident
or even the Evil any evil I made the infamous sex farewell. Dom are you bust? --------------------------

The
Lord knows well the old oak tree that stands close to the castle, a special old growth, which also has
the flash a few years ago split off one half. Because now playing an even wonderful musicians
society on it. If you are only eight and aufmerkt that buzzes no bird chirping in the forest
and to the tree's is never still. Sparrows and flutter siskins and tits and scream during the
day because in such quantities that they are intrinsically Word can not hear, and at night - oh
goodness gracious - make the owls and crows and ravens their Singing, that one's hair stand on
end. They also say that the foxes from their then Holes get mitheulen and, and that the snakes, which are
so many down the brook, then give a ring dance, but I have not seen. But this is even true
that If the horses in their nostrils by ghosts and other things, a devil's weather have, on
that side of the wood itself looks barely graze by day. The Lord has also probably the black stork
seen the horstet not far from the castle on a blunted book. Click to Loebnitz, Redebas and Divitz
where Barth meadows and creeks so many snakes, snakes Frogs and pull's, the storks on roofs and barns
all the crowd, but nowhere you see a black stork than here. Sometimes will be years, he fails
completely, since anyone can remember there was talk of it, but it appears to its time again.
This black stork is the captain of the whole bird plumage. Many People say he was the old gentleman
himself, or a son by him, he with a Moor princess is said to have
witnessed that he had bought from the Sultan in Ethiopia.

For magicians, sorcerers, Moors and such Wanschaff devil scum that show no ordinary father and
mother can wipps around here at night, and they have escaped the many kicks, the run to the
wall, for the people beware of well to this area to make foot walkways. This mob lives up to
the present day in underground rooms which have many hundreds Boot deep beneath the foxes
are, and why it has some deep from under the Wall fly often so strange and sounds heard, with
all other violence and other sounds, as Foxes and raccoon can do in their holes. This black stork,
it is a even bizarre thing. The know how to tell all the farmers and shepherds, he has in the
meadows a three times bigger hunting area than any of the Painted Stork, and none of these
comes to him in his forbid, yes, they fly right away when they saw the devil as soon as they
see him only from afar. Of the afternoon to the evening when the sun into gold begins to go
see him between the castle and the Huenengrabe fly back and forth, he often sits on the hill
and looks across to the town of Barth, from which He has his days, perhaps enticed some little nice
girl. He now needs to God Verdict and sentence many thousands of flying around in bird form - because
who is to redeem him ? Are - and instead of his former treats with the bad food of frogs and Snakes,
the preference of each man spits and spits out, take, and in his black coat Show that he is
a rogue and villain by nature. But there is still something else Another fact, and this is just
the ugliest of the sailors in the colorful jacket. I do not know whether it is a sailor, in
what form it will have seen many, or a pretty Jaeger nimble fellow, but the colorful jacket once heard it.
And no one understands how this Bunt Jack and the Black Rock, the stork, can also be there and what
they Vermaskierung means, but a vicious game, it is certainly colorful, and some poor soul has to honor
and lucky to be related. For if such a smooth and Geelschnabel green compact of a pretty young
girl or woman to another nice read here in the forest Picking flowers or nuts and their thoughts
is not taking care, that they do not remain entirely on the ways of God - I mean, if she thinks
a little too young and too funny or with forbidden images of Goetz Heart plays, as our Lord
says Pastor Scheer, on the spot faces the beautiful striped Jack makes a colorful and before
her his Kratzfuesse. He makes no tiresome and friendly approach, enough bouquets, as servants
offers to the nut bags to carry, and plays so with one thousand and Bluecklingen Heuchlingen and
Schmeichlingen the Weibsen around that Begigelten poor bewitched and do not know what hit them,
and never can be aware what a Hahnenfuessler he is. He, too, is probably always as if by chance
as a fine, stupid young man, as a pretty, innocent boy, some colorful birds on the Hand-supporting,
and saying: 'She is looking flowers, beautiful maiden, you try to pick you nuts - o Come with
me! I know where most beautiful flowers are, where brown nuts hanging in abundance. " And
so he lures her away, and leads them through flowers and nuts ever deeper into the forest, and
they finally attracted to the castle wall -'O as a very beautiful view, beautiful maiden is', he
cries, 'since you can sometimes beautiful world far beyond looking around. " Up there is a
but small red round stone dressed like a seat with a more green space thereabouts, since the rogue
has strewn flowers and nuts, and probably rose red apples and plums, and her name is put forward
and the gaze over the landscape.
 Now this is God's act, without any regard at all
to any good that the sinner has or can accomplish; 'not by works of righteousness which we
have done, but according to his mercy' thus he saveth us (Titus 3:5; Rom 3:24; 2 Tim 1:9).
Now, being made free from sin, what follows? We become the servants of God, that is, by that
turn which the Holy Ghost makes upon our heart when it reconciles it to the Word of God's grace.
For that, as was said afore, is the effect of the indwelling and operation of the Holy Ghost.
Now having our hearts thus changed by God and his Word, the fruits of righteousness put forth
themselves by us. For as when we were in the flesh, the motions of sin, which is in our members,
did bring forth fruit unto death, so now, if we are in the Spirit, and we are not in the flesh,
but in the Spirit, if so be the Spirit of Christ dwells in us, by the motions and workings
of that we have our fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life (Rom 8:6,9).

But now by these fruits we are neither made righteous nor good; for the apple maketh not the
tree good, it only declares it so to be. Here therefore all those are mistaken that think to
be righteous by doing of righteous actions, or good by doing good. A man must first be righteous,
or he cannot do righteousness; to wit, that which is evangelically such. Now if a man is, and
must be righteous, before he acts righteousness, then all his works are born too late to make
him just before God; for his works, if they be right, flow from the heart of a righteous man,
of a man that had, before he had any good work, a twofold righteousness bestowed on him; one
to make him righteous in the sight of God, the other to principle him to be righteous before
the world. 'That he might be called a tree of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that
he might be glorified' (Isa 63:3).

The want of understanding of this, is that which keeps so many in a mist of darkness about
the way of salvation. For they, poor hearts! when they hear of the need that they have of a
righteousness to commend them to God, being ignorant of the righteousness of God, that is,
of that which God imputeth to a man, and that by which he counteth him righteous, have it not
in their thoughts to accept of that unto justification of life. But presently betake themselves
to the law of works, and fall to work there for the performing of a righteousness, that they
may be accepted of God for the same; and so submit not themselves to the righteousness of God,
by which, and by which only, the soul stands just before God (Rom 10:1-3). Wherefore, I say,
it is necessary that this be distinctly laid down. That a man must be righteous first, even
before he doth righteousness; the argument is plain from the order of nature: 'For a corrupt
tree cannot bring forth good fruit': wherefore make the tree good, and so his fruit good; or
the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt (Luke 6:43).

Reason also says the same, for how can Blacks beget white children, when both father and mother
are black? How can a man without grace, and the spirit of grace, do good; nature is defiled
even to the mind and conscience; how then can good fruit come from such a stock? (Titus 1:15).
Besides, God accepteth not any work of a person which is not first accepted of him; 'The Lord
hath respect unto Abel and to his offering' (Gen 4:4). To Abel first, that is, before that
Abel offered. But how could God have respect to Abel, if Abel was not pleasing in his sight?
and how could Abel be yet pleasing in his sight, for the sake of his own righteousness, when
it is plain that Abel had not yet done good works? he was therefore first made acceptable in
the sight of God, by and for the sake of that righteousness which God of his grace had put
upon him to justification of life; through and by which also the Holy Ghost in the graces of
it dwelt in Abel's soul. Now Abel being justified, and also possessed with this holy principle,
he offers his sacrifice to God. Hence it is said, that he offered 'by faith,' by the faith
which he had precedent to his offering; for if through faith he offered, he had that faith
before he offered; that is plain. For this, all will grant, namely, that the works of a righteous
man are more excellent than are even the best works of the wicked. Hence Cain's works came
behind; for God had not made him righteous, had no respect unto his person, had not given him
the Spirit and faith, whereby alone men are made capable to offer acceptably: 'But unto Cain
and to his offering, the Lord had not respect' (Gen 4:5).

From all which it is manifest, that the person must be accepted before the duty performed can
be pleasing unto God. And if the person must first be accepted, it is evident that the person
must first be righteous; but if the person be righteous before he doth good, then it follows
that he is made righteous by righteousness that is none of his own, that he hath no hand in,
further than to receive it as the gracious gift of God. Deny this, and it follows that God
accepteth men without respect to righteousness; and then what follows that, but that Christ
is dead in vain?

We must not therefore be deceived, 'He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he,'
the Lord, 'is righteous' (1 John 3:7). He doth not say he that doth righteousness shall be
righteous; as if his doing works would make him so before God; but he that doth righteousness
IS righteous, antecedent to his doing righteousness. And it must be thus understood, else that
which follows signifies nothing; for he saith, 'He that doth righteousness is righteous, even
as he,' the Lord his God, 'is righteous.' But how is the Lord righteous? Even antecedent to
his works. The Lord was righteous before he wrought righteousness in the world; and even so
are we, to wit, every child of God. 'As he is, so are we, in this world'! (1 John 4:17). But
we must in this admit of this difference; the Lord was eternally and essentially righteous
before he did any work, but we are imputatively righteous, and also made so by a second work
of creation, before we do good works. It holds therefore only as to order; God was righteous
before he made the world, and we are righteous before we do good works. Thus, therefore, we
have described the righteous man. First. He is one whom God makes righteous, by reckoning or
imputation. Second. He is one that God makes righteous by possessing of him with a principle
of righteousness. Third. He is one that is practically righteous. Nor dare I give a narrower
description of a righteous man than this; nor otherwise than thus.

1. I dare not give a narrower description of a righteous man than this, because whoever pretends
to justification, if he be not sanctified, pretends to what he is not; and whoever pretends
to sanctification, if he shows not the fruits thereof by a holy life, he deceiveth his own
heart, and professeth but in vain (James 1:22-27).[5]

2. Nor dare I give this description otherwise than thus, because there is a real distinction
to be put between that righteousness by which we should be just before God, and that which
is in us a principle of sanctification; the first being the obedience of the Son of God without
us, the second being the work of the Spirit in our hearts. There is also a difference to be
put betwixt the principle by which we work righteousness, and the works themselves; as a difference
is to be put betwixt the cause and the effect, the tree and the apple.

[WHAT ARE THE DESIRES OF A RIGHTEOUS MAN?]

SECOND. I come now to the second thing into which we are to inquire, and that is,

WHAT ARE THE DESIRES OF A RIGHTEOUS MAN?

My way of handling this question shall be, FIRST, To speak of the nature of desire in the general.
SECOND, And then to show you, more particularly, what are the desires of the righteous.

[Desires in general.]

FIRST. For the first; desires in general may be thus described:--They are the workings of the
heart or mind, after that of which the soul is persuaded that it is good to be enjoyed; this,
I say, is so without respect to regulation; for we speak not now of good desires, but of desires
themselves, even as they flow from the heart of a human creature; I say, desires are or may
be called, the working of the heart after this or that; the strong motions of the mind unto
it. Hence the love of women to their husbands is called 'their desires' (Gen 3:16); and the
wife also is called 'the desire of thine' the husband's 'eyes' (Eze 24:16). Also love to woman,
to make her one's wife, is called by the name of 'desire' (Deut 21:10,11). Now, how strong
the motions or passions of love are, who is there that is an utter stranger thereto? (Cant
8:6,7). Exceeding lustings are called 'desires,' to show the vehemency of desires (Psa 106:14,
78:27-30). Longings, pantings, thirstings, prayers, &c., if there be any life in them, are
all fruits of a desirous soul. Desires therefore flow from the consideration of the goodness,
or profitableness, or pleasurableness of a thing; yea, all desires flow from thence; for a
man desires not that about which he has had no consideration, nor that neither on which he
has thought, if he doth not judge it will yield him something worth desiring.

When Eve saw that the forbidden fruit was a beautiful tree--though her sight deceived her--then
she desired it, and took thereof herself, and gave to her husband, and he did eat; yea, saith
the text, 'when she saw that it was a tree to be desired, to make one wise, she took' (Gen
3:6). Hence that which is called 'coveting' in one place, is called 'desiring' in another;
for desires are craving; and by desires a man seeks to enjoy what is not his (Exo 20:17; Deut
5:21). From all these things, therefore, we see what desire is. It is the working of the heart,
after that which the soul is persuaded that it is good to be enjoyed; and of them there are
these two effects.

First. One is--on a supposition that the soul is not satisfied with what it has--to cause the
soul to range and hunt through the world for something that may fill up that vacancy that yet
the soul finds in itself, and would have supplied. Hence desires are said to be wandering,
and the soul said to walk by them; 'Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the
desire,' or than the walking of the soul (Eccl 6:8,9). Desires are hunting things, and how
many things do some empty souls seek after, both as to the world, and also as to religion,
who have desirous minds!

Second. The second effect is, If desires be strong, they carry all away with them; they are
all like Samson, they will pull down the gates of a city; but they will go out abroad; nothing
can stop the current of desires, but the enjoyment of the thing desired, or a change of opinion
as to the worth or want of worth of the thing that is desired.

[What are the desires of the righteous.]

SECOND. But we will now come to the thing more particularly intended, which is, To show what
are the desires of the righteous; that is that which the text calls us to the consideration
of, because it saith, 'The desire of the righteous shall be granted.'

We have hitherto spoken of desires, as to the nature of them, without respect to them as good
or bad; but now we shall speak to them as they are the effects of a sanctified mind, as they
are the breathings, pantings, lustings, hungerings, and thirstings of a righteous man. The
text says 'the desire of the righteous shall be granted'; what then are the desires of the
righteous? Now I will, First. Speak to their desires in the general, or with reference to them
as to their bulk. Second. I will speak to them more particularly as they work this way and that.

[The desires of the righteous in the general.]

First. For their desires in the general: the same Solomon that saith, 'The desire of the righteous
shall be granted,' saith also, 'The desire of the righteous is only good' (Prov 11:23). This
text giveth us, in the general, a description of the desires of a righteous man; and a sharp
and smart description it is: for where, may some say, is then the righteous man, or the man
that hath none but good desires? and if it be answered they are good in the main, or good in
the general, yet that will seem to come short of an answer: for in that he saith 'the desires
of the righteous are only good,' it is as much as to say, that a righteous man has none but
good desires, or desireth nothing but things that are good. Wherefore, before we go any further,
I must labour to reconcile the experience of good men with this text, which thus gives us a
description of the desires of the righteous.

A righteous man is to be considered more generally, or more strictly.

1. More generally, as he consisteth of the whole man, of flesh and spirit, of body and soul,
of grace and nature; now consider him thus, and you can by no means reconcile the text with
his experience, nor his experience with the text. For as he is body, flesh, and nature--for
all these are with him, though he is a righteous man--so he has desires vastly different from
those described by this text, vastly differing from what is good; yea, what is it not, that
is naught, that the flesh and nature, even of a righteous man, will not desire? 'Do ye think
that the Scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?' (James 4:5).
And again, 'In me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing' (Rom 7:18). And again, 'The
flesh lusteth against the spirit' (Gal 5:17). And again, The lusts thereof do 'war against
the soul' (1 Peter 2:11).

From all these texts we find that a righteous man has other workings, lusts, and desires than
such only that are good; here then, if we consider of a righteous man thus generally, is no
place of agreement betwixt him and this text. We must consider of him, then, in the next place,
more strictly, as he may and is to be distinguished from his flesh, his carnal lusts, and sinful
nature.

2. More strictly. Then a righteous man is taken sometimes as to or for his best part, or as
he is A SECOND CREATION; and so, or as so considered, his desires are only good.

(1.) He is taken sometimes as to or for his best part, or as he is a second creation, as these
scriptures declare: 'If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature,--all things are become
new' (2 Cor 5:17). 'Created in Christ Jesus' (Eph 2:10). 'Born of God' (John 3; 1 John 3:9).
Become heavenly things, renewed after the image of him that created them: Colossians 3:10;
Hebrews 9:23 and the like. By all which places, the sinful flesh, the old man, the law of sin,
the outward man, all which are corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, are excluded, and
so pared off from the man, as he is righteous; for his 'delight in the law of God' is 'after
the inward man.' And Paul himself was forced thus to distinguish of himself, before he could
come to make a right judgment in this matter; saith he, 'That which I do, I allow not; what
I would, do I not; but what I hate, that do I.' See you not here how he cleaves himself in
twain, severing himself as he is spiritual, from himself as he is carnal; and ascribeth his
motions to what is good to himself only as he is spiritual, or the new man: 'If then I do that
which I would not, I consent to the law that it is good' (Rom 7).

But I trow, Sir, your consenting to what is good is not by that part which doth do what you
would not; no, no, saith he, that which doth do what I would not, I disown, and count it no
part of sanctified Paul: 'Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me;
for--in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but
how to perform that which is good, I find not: for the good that I would, I do not; but the
evil which I would not, that I do: Now, if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it,
but sin that dwells in me' (Rom 7). Thus you see Paul is forced to make two men of himself,
saying, I and I; I do; I do not; I do, I would not do; what I hate, that I do. Now it cannot
be the same I unto whom these contraries are applied; but his sinful flesh is one I, and his
godly mind the other: and indeed so he concludes it in this chapter, saying, 'So then with
the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin.'

Thus therefore the Christian man must distinguish concerning himself; and doing so, he shall
find, though he has flesh, and as he is such, he hath lusts contrary to God: yet as he is a
new creature, he allows not, but hates the motions and desires of the flesh, and consents to,
and wills and delights in the law of God (Rom 15:17-22). Yea, as a new creature, he can do
nothing else: for the new man, inward man, or hidden man of the heart, being the immediate
work of the Holy Ghost, and consisting only of that which is divine and heavenly, cannot breathe,
or act, or desire to act, in ways and courses that are carnal. Wherefore, in this sense, or
as the righteous man is thus considered, 'his desires are only good.'

(2.) As the righteous man must here be taken for the best part, for the I that would do good,
for the I that hates the evil; so again, we must consider of the desires of this righteous
man, as they flow from that fountain of grace, which is the Holy Ghost within him; and as they
are immediately mixed with those foul channels, in and through which they must pass, before
they can be put forth into acts. For though the desire, as to its birth, and first being, is
only good; yet before it comes into much motion, it gathers that from the defilements of the
passages through which it comes, as makes it to bear a tang of flesh and weakness in the skirts
of it; and the evil that dwells in us is so universal, and also always so ready, that as sure
as there is any motion to what is good, so sure evil is present with it; 'for when' or whenever
'I would do good,' says Paul, 'evil is present with me' (Rom 7:21). Hence it follows, that
all our graces, and so our desires, receive disadvantage by our flesh, that mixing itself with
what is good, and so abates the excellency of the good.

There is a spring that yieldeth water good and clear, but the channels through which this water
comes to us are muddy, foul, or dirty: now, of the channels the waters receive a disadvantage,
and so come to us as savouring of what came not with them from the fountain, but from the channels.
This is the cause of the coolness, and of the weakness, of the flatness, and of the many extravagancies
that attend some of our desires. They come warm from the Spirit and grace of God in us; but
as hot water running through cold pipes, or as clear water running through dirty conveyances,
so our desires [cool and] gather soil.

You read in Solomon's Ecclesiastes of a time when desires fail, for that 'man goeth to his
long home' (Eccl 12:5). And as to good desires, there is not one of them, when we are in our
prime, but they fail also as to the perfecting of that which a man desires to do. 'To will
is present with me,' says Paul, 'but how to perform that which is good I find not' (Rom 7:18).
To will or to desire, that is present with me, but when I have willed or desired to do, to
perform is what I cannot attain to. But why not attain to a performance? Why, says he, I find
a law 'in my members warring against the law of my mind'; and this law takes me prisoner, and
brings 'me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members' (Rom 7:23). Now, where
things willed and desired meet with such obstructions, no marvel if our willing and desiring,
though they set out lustily at the beginning, come yet lame home in conclusion.

There is a man, when he first prostrates himself before God, doth it with desires as warm as
fire coals; but erewhile he finds, for all that, that the metal of those desires, were it not
revived with fresh supplies, would be quickly spent and grow cold.[6] But yet the desire is
good, and only good, as it comes from the breathing of the Spirit of God within us. We must
therefore, as I said, distinguish betwixt what is good and that which doth annoy it, as gold
is to be distinguished from the earth and dross that doth attend it. The man that believed
desired to believe better, and so cries out, 'Lord, help mine unbelief' (Mark 9:24). The man
that feared God desired to fear him better, saying, 'I desire to fear thy name' (Neh 1:11).
But these desires failed, as to the performance of what was begun, so that they were forced
to come off but lamely, as to their faith and fear they had; yet the desires were true, good,
and such as was accepted of God by Christ; not according to what they had not, but as to those
good motions which they had. Distinguish then the desires of the righteous in the nature of
them, from that corruption and weakness of ours that cleaveth to them, and then again, 'they
are only good.'

(3.) There is another thing to be considered, and that is, the different frames that our inward
man is in while we live as pilgrims in the world. A man, as he is not always well without,
so neither is he always well within. Our inward man is subject to transient, though not to
utter decays (Isa 1:5). And as it is when the outward man is sick, strength and stomach, and
lust, or desire fails, so it is when our inward man has caught a cold likewise (Eze 34:4).

The inward man I call the new creature, of which the Spirit of God is the support, as my soul
supports my body. But, I say, this new man is not always well. He knows nothing that knows
not this. Now being sick, things fail. As when a man is not in health of body, his pulse beats
so as to declare that he is sick; so when a man is not well within, his inward pulse, which
are his desires--for I count the desires for the pulse of the inward man--they also declare
that the man is not well within. They beat too little after God, weak and faintly after grace;
they also have their halts, they beat not evenly, as when the soul is well, but so as to manifest
all is not well there.

We read that the church of Sardis was under sore sickness, insomuch that some of her things
were quite dead, and they that were not so were yet ready to die (Rev 3:2). Yet 'life is life,'
we say, and as long as there is a pulse, or breath, though breath scarce able to shake a feather,
we cast not away all hope of life. Desires, then, though they be weak, are, notwithstanding,
true desires, if they be the desires of the righteous thus described, and therefore are truly
good, according to our text. David says he 'opened his mouth and panted,' for he longed for
God's commandments (Psa 119:131). This was a sickness, but not such a one as we have been speaking
of. The spouse also cried out that she was 'sick of love.' Such sickness would do us good,
for in it the pulse beats strongly well (Cant 5:8).

[Some objections answered.]

Object. But it may be objected, I am yet in doubt of the goodness of my desires, both because
my desires run both ways, and because those that run towards sin and the world seem more and
stronger than those that run after God, and Christ, and grace.

Answ. There is not a Christian under heaven but has desires that run both ways, as is manifest
from what hath been said already. Flesh will be flesh; grace shall not make it otherwise. By
flesh I mean that body of sin and death that dwelleth in the godly (Rom 6:6). As grace will
act according to its nature, so sin will act according to the nature of sin (Eph 2:3). Now,
the flesh has desires, and the desires of the flesh and of the mind are both one in the ungodly;
thank God it is not so in thee! (Rom 7:24). The flesh, I say, hath its desires in the godly;
hence it is said to lust enviously; it lusts against the Spirit; 'The flesh lusteth against
the Spirit' (Gal 5:17). And if it be so audacious as to fly in the face of the Holy Ghost,
wonder that thou art not wholly carried away with it! (Rom 7:25).

Object. But those desires that run to the world and sin seem most and strongest in me.

Answ. The works of the flesh are manifest; that is, more plainly discovered even in the godly
than are the works of the Holy Ghost (Gal 5:19). And this their manifestation ariseth from
these following particulars:

1. We know the least appearance of a sin better by its native hue than we know a grace of the
Spirit. 2. A little aloes will be sooner tasted than will much sweet, though mixed therewith.
3. Sin is dreadful and murderous in the sight of a sanctified soul: wherefore the apprehending
of that makes us often forget, and often question whether we have any grace or no. 4. Grace
lies deep in the hidden part, but sin lies high, and floats above in the flesh; wherefore it
is easier, oftener seen than is the grace of God (Psa 51:6). The little fishes swim on the
top of the water, but the biggest and best keep down below, and so are seldomer seen. 5. 6.
Sin is seen by its own darkness, and also in the light of the Spirit; but the Spirit itself
neither discovers itself, nor yet its graces, by every glance of its own light. 7. A man may
have the Spirit busily at work in him, he may also have many of his graces in their vigorous
acts, and yet may be greatly ignorant of either; wherefore we are not competent judges in this
case. There may a thousand acts of grace pass through thy soul, and thou be sensible of few,
if any, of them.[7] 8. Do you think that he that repents, believes, loves, fears, or humbles
himself before God, and acts in other graces too, doth always know what he doth? No, no; grace
many times, even in a man, is acted by him, unawares unto him. Did Gideon, think you, believe
that he was so strong in grace as he was? Nay, was he not ready to give the lie to the angel,
when he told him God was with him? (Judg 6:12,13). Or what do you think of David, when he said
he was cast off from God's eyes? (Psa 31:22). Or of Heman, when he said he was free among them
whom God remembered no more? (Psa 88). Did these, then, see their graces so clear, as they
saw themselves by their sins to be unworthy ones? I tell you it is a rare thing for some Christians
to see their graces, but a thing very common for such to see their sins; yea, and to feel them
too, in their lusts and desires, to the shaking of their souls.

Quest. But since I have lusts and desires both ways, how shall I know to which my soul adheres?

Answ. This may be known thus: 1. Which wouldest thou have prevail? the desires of the flesh,
or the lusts of the spirit, whose side art thou of? Doth not thy soul now inwardly say, and
that with a strong indignation, O let God, let grace, let my desires that are good, prevail
against my flesh, for Jesus Christ his sake? 2. What kind of secret wishes hast thou in thy
soul when thou feelest the lusts of thy flesh to rage? Dost thou not inwardly, and with indignation
against sin, say, O that I might never, never feel one such motion more? O that my soul were
so full of grace, that there might be longer no room for ever for the least lust to come into
my thoughts! 3. What kind of thoughts hast thou of thyself, now thou seest these desires of
thine that are good so briskly opposed by those that are bad? Dost thou not say, O! I am the
basest of creatures, I could even spew at myself? There is no man in all the world in my eyes
so loathsome as myself is. I abhor myself; a toad is not so vile as I am.[8] O Lord, let me
be anything but a sinner, anything, so thou subduest mine iniquities for me! 4. How dost thou
like the discovery of that which thou thinkest is grace in other men? Dost thou not cry out,
O, I bless them in my heart! O, methinks grace is the greatest beauty in the world! Yea, I
could be content to live and die with those people that have the grace of God in their souls.
A hundred times, and a hundred, when I have been upon my knees before God, I have desired,
were it the will of God, that I might be in their condition. 5. How art thou when thou thinkest
that thou thyself hast grace? O then, says the soul, I am as if I could leap out of myself;
joy, joy, joy then is with my heart. It is, methinks, the greatest mercy under heaven to be
made a gracious man.

And is it thus with thy soul indeed? Happy man! It is grace that has thy soul, though sin at
present works in thy flesh. Yea, all these breathings are the very actings of grace, even of
the grace of desire, of love, of humility, and of the fear of God within thee. Be of good courage,
thou art on the right side. Thy desires are only good; for that thou hast desired against thy
sin, thy sinful self; which indeed is not thyself, but sin that dwells in thee.[9]

[The distinct or particular desires of the righteous.]

Second. I come next to speak of desires more distinctly, or particularly, as they work this
way and that. First, then, the desires of the righteous are either such as they would have
accomplished here; or else, Second, such as they know they cannot come at the enjoyment of
till after death.

[Desires that may be accomplished or enjoyed in this life.]

First. For the first of these, the desires of the righteous are for such good things as they
could have accomplished here; that is, in this world, while they are on this side glory. And
they, in general, are comprised under these two general heads:--1. Communion with their God
in spirit, or spiritual communion with him; 2. The liberty of the enjoyment of his holy ordinances.
And, indeed, this second is, that they may both attain to, and have the first maintained with
them. But for the first:

1. They desire now communion with God. The reason of this she renders in the verse foregoing,
saying, 'The desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee.'

Now, thus to desire, declares one already made righteous. For herein there appears a mind reconciled
to God. They neither love his presence, nor to be frequenters of his ordinances. 'What is the
Almighty that we should serve him? and what profit should we have if we pray unto him?' (Job
21:15). So, again, speaking of the wicked, he saith, 'Ye have said it is vain to serve God,
and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance?' (Mal 3:14). This, then, to desire truly
to have communion with God, is the property of a righteous man, of a righteous man only; for
this desire arises from a suitableness which is in the righteous unto God; 'Whom,' said the
Prophet, 'have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee'
(Psa 73:25).

When Moses, the man of God, was with the children of Israel in the wilderness, he prays that
God would give them his presence unto Canaan, or else to let them die in that place. It was
death to him to think of being in the wilderness without God! And he said unto God, 'If thy
presence go not with me, carry us not up hence' (Exo 33:14,15). Here, then, are the desires
of a righteous man--namely, after communion with God. He chooses rather to be a stranger with
God in the world, than to be a citizen of the world and a stranger to God. 'For I am,' said
David, 'a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were' (Psa 39:12). Indeed,
he that walketh with God is but a stranger to this world. And the righteous man's desires are
to, for, and after communion with God, though he be so.

The reasons of these desires are many. In communion with God is life and favour; yea, the very
presence of God with a man is a token of it (Psa 30:3-5). For by his presence he helps, succours,
relieves, and supports the hearts of his people, and therefore is communion with him desired.
'I will,' said David, 'behave myself wisely in a perfect way; O when wilt thou come unto me?'
(Psa 101:2). The pleasures that such a soul finds in God that has communion with him are surpassing
all pleasures and delights, yea, infinitely surpassing them. Upon this account he is called
the desire of all nations--of all in all nations that know him. Job desired God's presence,
that he might reason with God. And again, 'O that one would hear me! Behold my desire is that
the Almighty would answer me' (Job 31:35). But why doth Job thus desire to be in the presence
of God! O! he knew that God was good, and that he would speak to him that which would do him good.

God's presence is the safety of a man. If God be with one, who can hurt one? As HE said, 'If
God be for us, who can be against us?' Now, if so much safety flows from God's being for one,
how safe are we when God is with us? 'The beloved of the Lord,' said Moses, 'shall dwell in
safety by him, and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and he shall dwell between his
shoulders' (Deut 33:12). God's presence keeps the heart awake to joy, and will make a man sing
in the night (Job 35:10). 'Can the children of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom
is with them?' (Matt 9:15). God's presence is feasting, and feasting is made for mirth (Rev
3:20; Eccl 10:19). God's presence keeps the heart tender, and makes it ready to fall in with
what is made known as duty or privilege (Isa 64:1). 'I will run the ways of thy commandments,'
said the Psalmist, 'when thou shalt enlarge my heart' (Psa 119:32). The presence of God makes
a man affectionately and sincerely good; yea, makes him willing to be searched and stripped
from all the remains of iniquity (Psa 26:1-3).

What, what shall I say? God's presence is renewing, transforming, seasoning, sanctifying, commanding,
sweetening, and enlightening to the soul! Nothing like it in all the world; his presence supplies
all wants, heals all maladies, saves from all dangers; is life in death, heaven in hell; all
in all. No marvel, then, if the presence of, and communion with, God, is become the desire
of a righteous man (Psa 26:9). To conclude this, by the presence of God being with us, it is
known to ourselves, and to others, what we are. 'If thy presence,' said Moses, 'go not with
me, carry us not up hence. For wherein shall it be known here, that I and thy people have found
grace in thy sight, is it not in that thou goest with us? So shall we be separated, I and thy
people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth' (Exo 33:15,16).

They are then best known to themselves. They know they are his people, because God's presence
is with them. Therefore he saith, 'My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest'
(Exo 33:14). That is, let thee know that thou hast found grace in my sight, and art accepted
of me. For if God withdraws himself, or hides his presence from his people, it is hard for
them to bear up in the steadfast belief that they belong to him. 'Be not silent to me,' O Lord,
said David, 'lest I become like them that go down into the pit' (Psa 28:1). 'Be not silent
unto me,' that is, as he has it in another place, 'Hide not thy face from me. Hear me speedily,
O Lord,' saith he, 'my spirit faileth; hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them
that go down into the pit' (Psa 143:7). So that God's presence is the desire of the righteous
for this cause also, even for that by it they gather that God delighteth in them. 'By this
I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemies doth not triumph over me' (Psa 41:11).
And is this all? No. 'And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before
thy face for ever' (Psa 41:12).

As by the presence of God being with us we know ourselves to be the people of God: so by this
presence of God the world themselves are sometimes convinced who we are also.

Thus Abimelech saw that God was with Abraham (Gen 21:22). Thus Abimelech saw that God was with
Isaac (Gen 26:20,29). Pharaoh knew that God was with Joseph (Gen 41:38). Saul 'saw and knew
that the Lord was with David' (1 Sam 18:28). Saul's servant knew that the Lord was with Samuel
(1 Sam 9:6). Belshazzar's queen knew, also, that God was with Daniel. Darius knew, also, that
God was with Daniel. And when the enemy saw the boldness of Peter and John, 'they took knowledge
of them that they had been with Jesus' (Acts 4:13). The girl that was a witch, knew that Paul
was a servant of the most high God (Acts 16:17). There is a glory upon them that have God with
them, a glory that sometimes glances and flashes out into the faces of those that behold the
people of God; 'And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly upon him, saw Stephen's
face, as it had been the face of an angel'; such rays of Divine majesty did show themselves
therein (Acts 6:15).

The reason is, for that, (1.) such have with them the wisdom of God (2 Sam 14:17-20). (2.)
Such, also, have special bowels and compassions of God for others. (3.) Such have more of his
majesty upon them than others (1 Sam 16:4). (4.) Such, their words and ways, their carriages
and doings, are attended with that of God that others are destitute of (1 Sam 3:19,20). (5.)
Such are holier, and of more convincing lives in general, than other people are (2 Kings 4:9).
Now there is both comfort and honour in this; for what comfort like that of being a holy man
of God? And what honour like that of being a holy man of God? This, therefore, is the desire
of the righteous, to wit, to have communion with God. Indeed none like God, and to be desired
as he, in the thoughts of a righteous man.

2. And this leads me to the second thing, namely, The liberty of the enjoyment of his holy
ordinances; for, next to God himself, nothing is so dear to a righteous man as the enjoyment
of his holy ordinances.

'One thing,' said David, 'have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after,' namely, 'that
I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord,
and to inquire in his temple' (Psa 27:4). The temple of the Lord was the dwelling-house of
God, there he recorded his name, and there he made known himself unto his people (Psa 11:4;
Habb 2:20). Wherefore this was the cause why David so earnestly desired to dwell there too,
'To behold,' saith he, 'the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple.' There he had
promised his presence to his people, yea, and to bring thither a blessing for them; 'In all
places where I record my name, I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee' (Exo 20:24). For
this cause, therefore, as I said, it is why the righteous do so desire that they may enjoy
the liberty of the ordinances and appointments of their God; to wit, that they may attain to,
and have communion maintained with him. Behold what a taking the good man was in, because at
this time he could not attain to so frequent a being in the temple of God as his soul desired.
It even longed and fainted, yea, and his heart and his flesh cried out for the God that dwelt
in the temple at Jerusalem. And then blesseth all them that had the liberty of temple worship,
saying, 'Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, they will be still praising thee' (Psa 84:4).
Then he cries up the happiness of those that in Zion do appear before God (Psa 84:7). After
this he cries out unto God, that he would grant him to be partaker of this high favour, saying,
'O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer,' &c. 'For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand:
I had rather be a door-keeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness'
(Psa 84:8-10).

But why is all this? what aileth the man thus to express himself? Why, as I said, the temple
was the great ordinance of God; there was his true worship performed, there God appeared, and
there his people were to find him. This was, I say, the reason why the Psalmist chose out,
and desired this one thing, above all the things that were under heaven, even 'to behold there
the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple.' There were to be seen the shadows of
things in the heavens; the candlestick, the table of shewbread, the holiest of all, where was
the golden censer, the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, the golden pot that
had manna, Aaron's rod that budded, the tables of the covenant, and the cherubims of glory
overshadowing the mercy-seat, which were all of them then things by which God showed himself
merciful to them (Heb 9:1-5 compared with 9:23 and 8:5). Yea, this judgment wisdom itself passes
upon these things. For this cause therefore are the ordinances of God so much desired by the
righteous. In them they meet with God; and by them they are builded, and nourished up to eternal
life. 'As new born babes,' says Peter, 'desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow
thereby' (1 Peter 2:2). As milk is nourishing to children, so is the word heard, read, and
meditated on, to the righteous. Therefore it is their desire.

Christ made himself known to them in breaking of bread; who, who would not then, that loves
to know him, be present at such an ordinance? (Luke 24:35). Church fellowship, or the communion
of saints, is the place where the Son of God loveth to walk; his first walking was in Eden,
there he converted our first parents: 'And come, my beloved,' says he, 'let us get up to the
vineyards; let us see if the vine flourish, whether the tender grape appear, and the pomegranates
bud forth; there will I give thee my loves' (Cant 7:12). 'In his temple doth every one speak
of his glory' (Psa 29:9). Hence the church is called the place of God's desire on earth. 'This
is my rest for ever, here I will dwell, for I have desired it' (Psa 132:13-16). And again,
thus the church confesseth when she saith, 'I am my beloved's, and his desire is towards me'
(Cant 7:10).[11]

No marvel then if this be the one thing that David desired, and that which he would seek after,
namely, 'to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of his life.' And this also shows you
the reason why God's people of old used to venture so hardly for ordinances, and to get to
them with the peril of their lives, 'because of the sword of the wilderness' (Lam 5:9).[12]

They were their bread, they were their water, they were their milk, they were their honey.
Hence the sanctuary was called 'the desire of their eyes, and that which their soul pitieth,
or the pity of their soul.' They had rather have died than lost it, or than that it should
have been burned down as it was (Eze 24:21,25).

When the children of Israel had lost the ark, they count that the glory was departed from Israel.
But when they had lost all, what a complaint made they then! 'He hath violently taken away
his tabernacles, as if it were of a garden, he hath destroyed his places of the assembly. The
Lord hath caused the solemn feasts and sabbaths to be forgotten in Sion, and hath despised,
in the indignation of his anger, the king and the priest' (Lam 2:6). Wherefore, upon this account,
it was that the church in those days counted the punishment of her iniquity greater than the
punishment of Sodom (Lam 4:6; 1 Sam 4:22).

By these few hints you may perceive what is the 'desire of the righteous.' But this is spoken
of with reference to things present, to things that the righteous desire to enjoy while they
are here; communion with God while here; and his ordinances in their purity while here. I come,
therefore, in the second place, to show you that the righteous have desires that reach further,
desires that have so long a neck as to look into the world to come.

[Desires that can only be accomplished or enjoyed in eternity.]

Second. Then the desires of the righteous are after that which yet they know cannot be enjoyed
till after death. And those are comprehended under these two heads--1. They desire that presence
of their Lord which is personal. 2. They desire to be in that country where their Lord personally
is, that heavenly country.

1. [They desire that presence of their Lord which is personal.] For the first of these, says
Paul, 'I have a desire to depart, and to be with Christ.' Thus you have it in Philippians 1:23,
'I have a desire to be with Christ.'

In our first sort of desires, I told you that the righteous desired spiritual communion with
God; and now I tell you they desire to be with Christ's person--'I have a desire to be with
Christ'; that is, with his person, that I may enjoy his personal presence, such a presence
of his as we are not capable to enjoy while here. Hence he says, 'I have a desire to depart,
that I might be with him; knowing,' as he says in another place, 'that whilst we are at home
in the body, we are,' and cannot but be, 'absent from the Lord' (2 Cor 5:6). Now this desire,
as I said, is a desire that hath a long neck; for it can look over the brazen wall of this,
quite into another world; and as it hath a long neck, so it is very forcible and mighty in
its operation.

(1.) This desire breeds a divorce, a complete divorce, betwixt the soul and all inordinate
love and affections to relations and worldly enjoyments. This desire makes a married man live
as if he had no wife; a rich man lives as if he possessed not what he has, &c. (1 Cor 7:29,30).
This is a soul-sequestering desire. This desire makes a man willing rather to be absent form
all enjoyments, that he may be present with the Lord. This is a famous desire; none hath this
desire but a righteous man. There are that profess much love to Christ, that yet never had
such a desire in them all their life long. No, the relation that they stand in to the world,
together with those many flesh-pleasing accommodations with which they are surrounded, would
never yet suffer such a desire to enter into their hearts.

(2.) The strength of this desire is such, that it is ready, so far forth as it can, to dissolve
that sweet knot of union that is betwixt body and soul, a knot more dear to a reasonable creature
than that can be which is betwixt wife and husband, parent and child, or a man and his estate.
For even 'all that a man hath will he give for his life,' and to keep body and soul firmly
knit together. But now, when this desire comes, this 'silver cord is loosed'; is loosed by
consent. This desire grants to him that comes to dissolve this union leave to do it delightfully.
'We are confident and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with the
Lord' (2 Cor 5:8). Yea, this desire makes this flesh, this mortal life, a burden. The man that
has this desire exercises self-denial, while he waits till his desired change comes. Because he lives like a very great man, and
the Great Mogul and King of France can not have better days, and the Queen of Antioch, it has
not had their assets in the hearts and brains of Paradiesvoegeln eaten by nightingales added. And
not only believe that these rats Koenig his friends nuts and milk and bring Weizenkoerner
depending on their beak, no, sugar and marzipan is their daily food, and sweet wine is your
drink, and live better as King Solomon and the captain of Holofernes.

Now Hans Burwell went back once after midnight in the forest and was the fox Lauer. Then he heard
from afar the many-voiced and screeching noise, and always consistent with clear voice out:
Birlibi! Birlibi! Birlibi! Then he remembered the tale of the Koenig Birlibi rats, which he
had often heard, and he thought: "Want to go to time and watch what it is, "For he was a courageous
man who even in the darkest night, no stock Knew fear. And he was to go on the point, since
the discovery, he saying: "Stay away, where you have to do anything, so you keep your nose ", but
that after him Birlibi tinted while he was in the forest. And the other night and the third night
it was back as well. But he did nothing to challenge and said, "Let the devil and his rabble
her great Being driven as they want! They can to do nothing, not to add to them. " Would to God
there had always done Hans! But the fourth night it overwhelm him, and he has fallen into the
really evil ropes.

It has been the Walpurgis Eve, and his wife asked him to let him this night only not go into
the forest, because it was not haunted, and all the warlocks and weather makers were on the legs,
can do to him what, for that night, the whole hoellisch Army let go, had come many a Christian
man hurt. But he laughed and it has called a womanish fear, and is his habitual way into the forest
went, were as the others to bed. Since he is the king Birlibi become powerful. Initially It was that
night in the woods just like the previous nights, it roars and made noise in the distance, and Birlibi
including the sound bright, and what about his head buzzed through the tops of the trees and
whistled and roared, Burwell took care not much, because he believed in witchcraft did not and said
it was just night spirits, what are the gray man, because he did not know them, and all sorts
of illusions and juggling of the darkness that the can not do anything of any faith it did.
But when it had struck midnight and the bell was twelve, there came a very different Birlibi from
the forest out that Hansen tingling hair on his head and sauseten and wanted to run it. But
it was too fast, and soon he was in the middle under the pile and could not get out.

For when it had struck twelve, the whole forest at once, such as dyes
his drums and drums and pipes and trumpets, and it was so light it,
as if he suddenly by many been lit thousands of lamps and candles
would be.

It was the night the big main hard of the rat king and all his subjects and people, men and
vassals were to celebrate same mobilized. And it all seemed to whiz trees and bushes all the whistling
and all the rocks and stones to jump and dance, so that Hansen was terribly frightened, but run
away when he wanted his infatuation as many animals the way that he could not get through and
had shown himself to stop, where he was. It was because the foxes and martens and the ferrets
and weasels and marmots and hamsters and dormice and rats and mice in such countless numbers
that it seemed they were rounded up from around the world to this festival. They ran and jumped
and jumped and danced with each other as if they were great, they but all were on the Hinterfuessen,
and with the Vorderfuessen they wore green twigs from Maytime, cheering and roars and howled and
shrieked and whistled in their own way. In short, it was all easy thieves of the night together, and did
not do a hideous Bells and tinkling and bustle of today. In the air it was as wild as on earth,
there flew the owls and crows and owls and owls and bats and dung beetles pell-mell, and told
their throats yelling and screaming and with their buzzing and whirring wings, the joy of the high
day.

When Hans was shocked and surprised in the middle of the bustle and noise and buzzing and did not
know where to turn, and behold, it lit up at once bright, and now many thousands of voices singing
at the same time that it passes through in terribly gruesome solemnity
the forest and echoed Hansen's heart quivered in her body:

Open up!

Open up! Opens the doors! And her wallet of all places! Retrieved ye a very similar, and the King
draws from his kingdom. I am the big rats Koenig. Come here to me, you have too little! Of gold
and silver is my house, the money mess I made in shovels.

It sounded continued in the solemn and slow song, and then rang again and again individual screaming
and screaming voices with lute including Birlibi disgusting! Birlibi! and whole crowd shouted
Birlibi! after that it echoed through the forest. And it was the
rats Koenig, which was pulled along.

He was incredibly large as an ox and was sitting on a gold Car and had a golden crown on his head,
holding a golden scepter in hand, and beside him sat his queen and had a golden crown on and
was so fat that she was brilliant, and they had zusammengeschlungen their long bare dick behind
and played with it, for them was very pleasant mood. And these were the dick Allerscheusslichste,
what you saw there, but the king and queen were horrible enough. And the car, where they sat,
was drawn by six skinny wolves, which bared his teeth, and two long hangover as brigands were
on the back and held burning torches and mewed appalling. The rat king and the Rattenkoenigin
was not afraid of them, they seemed here powerful lords and kings over all to be. It went quickly and
twelve Trommelschlaeger the car ahead and drumming. They were rabbits, who need to drum make another
beat and courage, because they themselves have none.

Hansen had already been frightened enough, but now, as he and the king of the rats Rattenkoenigin And
the wolves, and cat and rabbits together so saw as his skin shuddered across the Body, and
his otherwise brave heart would almost give up hope, and he said to himself: "Here like the
executioner to stay longer, where everything goes so against nature!

I also probably of miracles read and heard, but they were nevertheless always something natural.
But that this varied is vicious and diabolical game pack, you can see well. Who would be just out!
"

Hans and made another attempt to squeeze himself out, but the train roared always freshly continued
through the forest, and Hans had to. This went on until a far corner
of the Forest came.

There was an open field, and held hundreds of wagons with bacon and meat and grain and nuts and
other food were loaded. Every one car drove a farmer with his horses, and the peasants carried
the sacks corn and the bacon and ham and Mettwuerste and whatever else they loaded down into the
forest, and when they saw are Hans Burwitz, they shouted to him: "Come and take Help!" And
Hans went and unloaded with and contributed them: he was so confused that he did not know what
he was doing. It seemed to him but in the Twilight, as if he saw familiar faces among the peasants,
and among others the mayor Krakvitz and from the blacksmith from Casnevitz, he had to remember
nothing, and those who did well as unknown people. With the farmers but it had the Bewandnis:
they had the Rat king and his followers to give service and had them in the Walpurgis Night,
where the rat is king big party, always drive the prey to the forest, the rat king subjects
had zusammengemaust separately from all parts of the world together and stolen. And Hans was
now completely innocent and do not know how. And the sacks and the other were carried into
the forest, the wild thieves had her about it and it went Grips! Graps! and Rips! Rape! have you
not seen me, and everyone grabbed it and dragged his part continued, so that their were less
and less. But the king was still there in his high and splendid carriage, and it dances and
roars and scream some more about him. But all Cars were unloaded there probably were one hundred
big rats and poured gold from bushels to the field and on the way and sang:

Her hands! Caps here! Who wants more? Who wants more? Funny! Funny! Today's is great, fun! Hands
and Hats full!

And the farmers fell like the hungry crows over her and grabbed the undistributed gold sparkled or
graphical ones and pushed and pushed, and everyone gathered as much
from the red to Prey, as he could find, and Hans was not lazy and
attacked vigorously with.

And when they were in the best work as pigeons, among which we threw peas, lo, crows the morning
cock, where the pagan and hellish kingdom on earth has no more power - and a hui was all gone,
as it would have been only a dream, and Hans was quite but as the forest. And the morning came,
and he went home with a heavy heart. He also had heavy bags and nice red gold in it, he did not
poured out. His wife had become very timid, that he came so late at home, and she was shocked
when she looked so pale and haggard, and asked him all sorts. But he made after his Habits with
a joke now and did not tell her a Sterbenswoertchen of what he saw and had heard of.

Hans counted his gold (it was a cute little group ducats), put it in the box and went the first
few months after this adventure is not in the forest. He had a secret dread before. Then he forgot
how to do it man, Walpurgis Night and its horrible and horrible turmoil gradually and was
still in the moon-and starlight on his Fox and marten trapping.

Of the rat king and his Birlibi he saw and heard nothing more and thought it rarely last.

And then he came close to him and whispered in his ear: "You're coming back to the Walpurgis
Night, Hans Burwitz, and carry bags and help you fetch your pockets full of ducats? "Had indeed
Hans, when he woke up from such dreams, in addition to the joy of the gold is always a horror
and he said well then: "Just wait, Prince Birlibi, i do not come
to your parties!"

But he went, as it is other people also left, and the old saying should be at it also be true: whoever the
devil only by a thread, he also executed well soon the rope. Enough, the closer to the Walpurgis
Night, the more did the greed in Hans, also to be there. But he made a firm, the evil this time
not to do the will, and Walpurgis was the evening also happy with his wife to bed. But he
could not sleep; the car with the bags and the farmers and the large rats that the gold from
bushels poured on the floor, he always fell back, and he could not stand it longer in bed,
he had to get up and sneak away from the woman and the dark forest . Run And since he has seen
this second night as well again as the first time. He had be taken for a bag of gold and had
collected much more abundant than the previous year.

Now it seemed that he had enough of gold, and he did a high vow that he would never again into the
temptation and never go back into the forest. And he has the oath and kept himself overcome
that he did not go into the forest and no Walpurgisnacht has again kept up as often as him,
nor of the rats and the golden Birlibi Kings has dreamed of. He has not let this sit but in his
heart, but it has with eager Prayer be expelled and the evil finally
tired, made that he has left him.

Many a year had passed, and Hans was called a very rich man he had for his purchased ducats villages,
and materials and had become a gentleman. It also was rumored among the people, It will not
go above board with his wealth, but neither could he prove it. But at last the proof has come.

The evil lurks on the poor man on whom he had already gained some power. He was angry at him because
he stayed away from its high in the Walpurgis Night celebrations in full, and as Hans once again
with sinful thought to the gold collection and lascivious about it forget the evening prayer,
some unholy curses had done about a little thing he can break out with his crew, and Hans has now
learned what the golden Plaything of the king Birlibi really have to be. Since then, neither
Hans Stern had even more luck in its economy.

How much does he also abmattete, he could not everything brought to him, but it went from
day to day everything backwards. His worst enemies But the mice that ate up to him in the
field and in the barns, the grain, the weasel, Rats and raccoon, which he slaughtered the chickens,
ducks and pigeons, foxes and wolves, to his lambs, sheep, calves and Fill outdated. In short, the
mob has made it so bad that John in a few years of property and courtyards, to horses and cattle
to sheep and calves come, and last not longer has a single chicken can be called. He was the a
poor man with the stick in his hand along with his wife and children go from house and home and
nourish itself on its old days as Tageloehner must.

As he often tells the story of how he came to the wealth and the farmers Edelman has become, and
thanked God that he sent rats and mice than its proselytizers and has made him so poor. "Otherwise",
the poor man said, "I would not probably in heaven: and the devil would have a power to keep
me, and I would have there must finally reached the other side of the rat king dance tune.
"He also has this told that such gold you win in such a wondrous and secret ways, but no blessing
in itself was, for him in all his treasures was never so good at
heart as was expected later in the bitterest poverty, nay, a miserable
man he was, because as Junker with sixes down, than afterwards, as
he often was glad when the evening only salt and potatoes have had.

Robin and Kohlmeischen.

Robin and Kohlmeischen were once a couple of pretty girls, daughters of a pious old Widow, from
spinning, sewing and washing and other work but just be honest nourished. She had only these
two children, of whom the oldest and the youngest Grethchen Katrine said. She held, as she also
became angry, the children always nice and clean in clothes and sent them diligently to church
and school, and when they were bigger, instructed them in all sorts of artificial work with the
scissors and needle and held it still in its Little room in all honesty
and virtue.

And thrived Grethchen and Katie, that it was a pleasure, and were
just as pretty and delicate, as they were hard working and honest,
so that all men had their pleasure in them and the neighbors their
daughters as a right Patterns showed and praised.

The widow died and the two sisters remained in their small houses and lived as they had done previously
with the mother, hands on their work. But it was not much longer so quiet in the little house,
as it had been otherwise. The falcons and hawks, which lauren on nice young fellow realized that the
woman was gone Huet what else the doves had guarded, and there were often loose a young fellow
who dances to the girls and wanted to entice binges and walks to the villages. The two sisters a few
weeks fought bravely, but finally they left and went to move and thought it may still well be
no sin, do what so many women and girls, no one called dishonest. First it came to them with
these dances but before too wild and they did not see even to long but went away early and
were back home before sunset and could not keep up in the night, how much, which they had taken,
lure mogten. The second and third time she has danced with their stakeholders, but by day home, and
with a slightly heavy heart, and took the right reason, the next Sunday to to stay home. But the
word was hard to hold, as the young fellows kept coming and asked to nice. The fourth and fifth
time she has stayed until after sunset, and the sixth and seventh time the clock had struck twelve,
when she came home, and they had to knock out their hostess that they aufschloesse the door, and
when the she exhorted old woman and she remembered her late mother, she laughed and said already:
Oh! the mother and her! when the mice have no teeth, they blame the Nutcracker; you will have
danced when you were young.

The girls were at home still very busy, too, had nothing dishonest done yet suffered, but the
door was opened to evil, and carelessness and recklessness increased from days to days, and now
was also many a precious day of doing nothing and around flaunting verquaendelt fritters away
and they usually used for useful work had. Even in her little room, everything had to be different,
the birds were fun and become colorful, it had to tighten up the sheer and delicate feathers:
new tables, new Chairs, new curtains, finer clothes and shoes. But seemed to the old house counsel
also the mother's blessing, which had previously rested visibly on the kids pulled out of the
house to being. Sun stole the accident with a reckless, until they did the only Boese on a
thin silk threads, most recently he has a thick telegraph cable of sin braided and they have the
gravity and the dirt of it no longer felt.

Grethchen Katrine and received a lot of nice work and valuable tools in hands, from which they
embroidered and sewed clothes and jewelry. They used more money than otherwise, they began to gradually
evolve into, ah! they stole last. Once she had a colorful silk skirt stolen, the hanging in a
neighbor's house by the window, and wandering to a Jews sold. A poor tailor 'in which there
are many colorful cloth and strips Found stuff he mogte gemaust have also probably was indicted
about it, and addressed been hanged. He hung dangling from the gallows clear. One night later,
the two girls with another companion and Gesellinnen from a village dance and went back the way
past the gallows. Cried one of the band, a frivolous society: Fritz tailor! Fritz tailor! how dear
to you is your colorful Rock! But no sooner had he uttered the word, Sun beat the sin like
a flash in the two prostitutes who were to blame for the poor tailor Death. They both crashed
to the earth as if dead, and the others who saw it were fully Frighten
away than they had all been sitting Galgenvoegel in the neck.

You have the story told in the city, and the people are gone, but the two girls they have never
found.

And how they had to find it? They were turned into birds and must now be wide world are flying around.
Grethchen is a robin and become a Kohlmeischen Katrine; because Grethchen always wore a red
silk handkerchief around his neck and a yellow Katrine. So they have to now as small birds
flying around in the woods, suffering hunger and thirst, Withstand heat and cold and, above
hawks and falcons, of snakes and vipers, hunters tremble and wild boys. The mother had probably
not thought of when it so politely and fine with her sitting in the closet, and embroidered and woven
and closer and evening and sang the morning with your bed and getting up in a clear voice hymns. But
the poor children are enticed first then seduced and liked it so finally in serious sins, and hardly
have known how they got this: so quiet and gentle, the levity they his Schlangenblumenweg
out. The fact that these little birds had once been human, is get natural and one can see it
also from the fact that they are always at the houses of the people fly, and often come through
the open window in the room and start to leave because, also that
in the forest, then how can people only see there, once they flutter
around around and singing.

You have not yet passed the old bad habit in bird plumage and can not change his spots but are
still Ore thieves, and where only something colorful and New and shiny is unhinged, fly there and grab
it after it, and therefore no birds more easily caught in traps and snares than these two,
and must Grethchens Katrine suspension and great-grandchildren pay for it yet, that it too much
at once and Kirmisse dances have gone and stolen the coat of many colors, what the tailor had
to hang. The People are complaining very much, when they see robins and Kohlmeischen hanging
in the slings, and call well: Ah! poor cute little bird! Because they are really very cute
and handsome, and had once even cute and pretty girls before they seduced by evil boys were
simple child, and lived as a pious, and thought and did no harm.
 For it was because of his desires that he did refuse, and did choose as
you read. And here we may opportunely take an opportunity to touch upon the vanity of that
faith that is not breeding, and that knows not how to bring forth strong desires of enjoying
what is pretended to be believed; all such faith is false. Abraham's, Isaac's, Jacob's, and
Moses' faith, bred in them desires, strong desires; yea, desires so strong as to take them
up, and to carry them after what, by their faith, was made known unto them. Yea, their desires
were so mightily set upon the things made known to them by their faith, that neither difficulties
nor dangers, nor yet frowns nor flatteries, could stop them from the use of all lawful attempts
of enjoying what they believed was to be had, and what they desired to be possessed of.

The women also that you read of, and others that would not, upon unworthy terms, accept of
deliverance from torments and sundry trials, that they might,, or because they had a desire
to, be made partakers of a better resurrection. 'And others,' saith he, 'had trial of cruel
mockings and scourgings; yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments. They wandered in deserts,
and in mountains, and caves of the earth' (Heb 11:35-38).

But we will come to the Lord Jesus himself. Whither did his desires bring him? Whither did
they carry him? and to what did they make him stoop? For they were his desires after us, and
after our good, that made him humble himself to do as he did (Cant 7:10). What was it, think
you, that made him cry out, 'I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how am I straitened
till it be accomplished'! (Luke 12:50). What was that baptism but his death? and why did he
so long for it, but of desire to do us good? Yea, the passover being to be eaten on the even
of his sufferings, with what desires did he desire to eat it with his disciples? (Luke 22:15).
Yea, his desires to suffer for his people made him go with more strength to lay down his life
for them than they, for want of them, had to go to see him suffer. And they were in their way
going up to Jerusalem, he to suffer, and they to look on, 'And Jesus went before them, and
they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid' (Mark 10:32; Matt 20:17).

I tell you, desires are strange things, if they be right; they jump with God's mind; they are
the life of prayer; they are a man's kindness to God, and they which will take him up from
the ground, and carry him away after God to do his will, let the work be never so hard. Is
it any marvel, then, if the desires of the righteous are so pleasing to God as they are, and
that God has so graciously promised that the desires of the righteous shall be granted? But
we come now to

[THE USE AND APPLICATION.]

THE FIRST USE SHALL BE A USE OF INFORMATION. You have heard what hath been said of desires,
and what pleasing things right desires are unto God. But you must know that they are the desires
of his people, of the righteous, that are so. No wicked man's desires are regarded (Psa 112:10).
This men must be informed of, lest their desires become a snare to their souls. You read of
a man whose 'desire killeth him' (Prov 21:25). And why? but because he rests in desiring, without
considering what he is, whether such a one unto whom the promise of granting desires is made;
he coveteth greedily all the day long, but to little purpose. The grant of desires, of the
fulfilling of desires, is entailed to the righteous man. There are four sorts of people that
desire, that desire the kingdom of heaven; consequently, desires have a fourfold root from
whence they flow.

First. The natural man desires to be saved, and to go to heaven when he dies. Ask any natural
man, and he will tell you so. Besides, we see it is so with them, especially at certain seasons.
As when some guilt or conviction for sin takes hold upon them; or when some sudden fear terrifies
them; when they are afraid that the plague or pestilence will come upon them, and break up
house-keeping for them; or when death has taken them by the throat, and is hauling them down
stairs to the grave. Them, O then, 'Lord, save me, Lord, have mercy upon me; good people, pray
for me! But the fears of the wicked, they must come upon the wicked; they are the desires of
the righteous that must be granted. Pray, take good notice of this. And to back this with the
authority of God, consider that scripture, 'The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days,
and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor. A dreadful sound is in his ears; in prosperity
the destroyer shall come upon him. Therefore he saith again, 'Terrors take hold on him as waters,
a tempest stealeth him away in the night. The east wind,' that blasting wind, 'carrieth him
away, and he departeth, and as a storm hurleth him out of' the world, 'his place. For God shall
cast upon him, and not spare'; in flying 'he would fain fly out of his hand' (Job 27:20-23).
Their terrors and their fears must come upon them: their desires and wishes for salvation must
not be granted (Isa 65:13, 66:4). 'They shall call upon me,' says God, 'but I will not answer;
they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me' (Prov 1:28).

Second. There is the hypocrite's desire. Now his desire seems to have life and spirit in it.
Also he desires, in his youth, his health, and the like; yet it comes to naught. You shall
see him drawn to the life in Mark 10:17. He comes running and kneeling, and asking, and that,
as I said, in youth and health; and that is more than men merely natural do. But all to no
purpose; he went as he came, without the thing desired. The conditions propounded were too
hard for this hypocrite to comply withal (Mark 10:21,22).[18] Some indeed make a great noise
with their desires over some again do; but in conclusion all comes to one, they meet together
there where they go, whose desires are not granted.

'For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he has gained' to a higher strain of desires,
'when God taketh away his soul?' 'Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him?' (Job
27:8,9). Did he not, even when he desired life, yet break with God in the day when conditions
of life were propounded to him? Did he not, even when he asked what good things were to be
done that he might have eternal life, refuse to hear or to comply with what was propounded
to him? How then can his desires be granted, who himself refused to have them answered? No
marvel then if he perishes like his own dung, if they that have seen him shall say they miss
him among those that are to have their desires granted.

Third. There are the desires of the cold formal professor; the desires, I say, of him whose
religion lies in a few of the shells of religion; even as the foolish virgins who were content
with their lamps, but gave not heed to take oil in their vessels. These I take to be those
whom the wise man calls the slothful: 'The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing;
but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat' (Prov 13:4). The sluggard is one that comes
to poverty through idleness--that contents himself with forms: 'that will not plough' in winter
'by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest,' or at the day of judgment, 'and
have nothing' (Prov 20:4).

Thus you see that there are many that desire; the natural man, the hypocrite, the formalist,
they all desire. For heaven is a brave place, and nobody would go to hell. 'Lord, Lord, open
to us,' is the cry of many in this world, and will be the cry of more in the day of judgment.
Of this therefore thou shouldst be informed; and that for these reasons:--

Because ignorance of this may keep thee asleep in security, and cause thee to fall under such
disappointments as are the worst, and the worst to be borne. For, for a man to think to go
to heaven because he desires it, and when all is done to fall into hell, is a frustration of
the most dismal complexion. And yet thus it will be when desires shall fail, 'when man goes
to his long home, and when the mourners go about the streets' (Eccl 12:5). Because, as was
said before, else thy desires, and that which should be for thy good, will kill thee. They
kill thee at death, when thou shalt find them every one empty. And at judgment, when thou shalt
be convinced that thou oughtest to go without what thou desirest, because thou wast not the
man to whose desires the promise was made, nor the man that didst desire aright. To be informed
of this is the way to put thee upon such sense and sight of thy case as will make thee in earnest
betake thyself in that way to him that is acceptable, who grants the desires of the righteous.
And then shalt thou be happy when thou shunnest to desire as the natural man desireth, as the
hypocrite desireth, or as the formalist desireth. When thou desirest as the righteous do, thy
desire shall be granted.

THE SECOND USE IS OF EXAMINATION. If this be so, then what cause hast thou that art conscious
to thyself that thou art a desiring man to examine thyself whether thou art one whose desires
shall be granted? For to what purpose should a man desire, or what fruits will desire bring
him whose desires shall not be granted? Such a man is but like to her that longs, but loses
her longing; or like to him that looks for peace while evil overtakes him.

Thou hast heard it over and over that the grant of desires belong to the righteous: shouldst
thou then not inquire into thy condition, and examine thyself whether thou art a righteous
man or no? The apostle said to the Corinthians, 'Examine yourselves whether ye be in the faith;
prove your own selves; know you not--how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates?'
(2 Cor 13:5). You may be reprobates and not be aware of it, if you do not examine and prove
your own selves. It is therefore FOR THY LIFE, wherefore do not deceive thyself. I have given
you before a description of a righteous man, namely, that he is one made so of God by imputation--by
an inward principle, and one that brings forth fruit to God. Now, this last thou mayst think
thou hast; for it is easy and common for men to think when they bring forth fruit to themselves,
that they bring it forth to God. Wherefore examine thyself.

First. Art thou righteous? If thou sayest, Yea; I ask, How comest thou righteous? If thou thinkest
that obedience to the law of righteousness has made thee so, thou art utterly deceived; for
he that thus seeks righteousness, yet is not righteous, because he cannot, by so doing, attain
that thing he seeketh for (Rom 9:31,32). Did not I tell thee before, that a man must be righteous
before he doth one good work, or he can never be righteous? The tree must be good first, even
before it brings forth one good apple.

Second. Art thou righteous? In whose judgment art thou righteous? Is it in the judgment of
God, or of man? If not of God, it is no matter though all the men on earth should justify thee;
thou for that art no whit the more righteous.

Third. Art thou righteous in the judgment of God? Who told thee so? or dost thou but dream
thereof? Indeed, to be righteous in God's sight is that, and only that, which can secure a
man from wrath to come; for 'if God justifies, who is he that condemns?' (Rom 8:33,34). And
this only is the man whose desires shall be granted.

Fourth. But still, I say, the question is, How comest thou to know that thou art righteous
in the judgment of God? Dost thou know by what it is that God makes a man righteous? Dost thou
know where that is by or with which God makes a man righteous? and also how God doth make a
man righteous with it? These are questions, in the answer of which thou must have some heavenly
skill, or else all that thou sayest about thy being righteous will seem without a bottom.

Fifth. Now, if thou answerest, That that which makes me righteous is the obedience of Christ
to his Father's will, that this righteousness is before the throne of God, and that it is made
mine by an act of God's free grace; I shall ask thee yet again,

Sixth. How camest thou to see thy need of this righteousness? And by what is this righteousness
by thee applied to thyself? For this righteousness is bestowed upon those that see their need
thereof. This righteousness is the refuge whereto the guilty fly for succour, that they may
be sheltered from the wrath to come. Hast thou then fled, or dost thou indeed fly to it? (Heb
6:16-19).

Seventh. None flies to this righteousness for life, but those who feel the sentence of condemnation
by God's law upon their conscience; and that in that extremity have sought for righteousness
first elsewhere, but cannot find it in all the world.

Eighth. For man, when he findeth himself at first a sinner, doth not straightway betake himself
for righteousness to God by Christ; but, in the first place, seeks it in the law on earth,
by labouring to yield obedience thereto, to the end he may, when he stands before God at death
and judgment, have something to commend him to him, and for the sake of which he may at least
help forward his acceptance with him.

Ninth. But being wearied out of this, and if God loves him he will weary him out of it, then
he looks unto heaven and cries to God for righteousness; the which God shows him in his own
good time he hath reckoned to him, for the sake of Jesus Christ.

Tenth. Now by this very discovery the heart is also principled with the spirit of the gospel;
for the Spirit comes with the gospel down from heaven to such an one, and fills his soul with
good; by which he is capacitated to bring forth fruit, true fruit, which are the fruits of
righteousness imputed, and of righteousness infused, to the glory and praise of God.

Eleventh. Nor can anything but faith make a man see himself thus made righteous; for this righteousness
is revealed from faith to faith, from the object of faith to the grace of faith, by the Spirit
of faith. A faithless man, then, can see this no more than a blind man can see colours; nor
relish this, no more than a dead man tasteth victuals. As, therefore, blind men talk of colours,
and as dead men relish food, so do carnal men talk of Jesus Christ; to wit, without sense or
savour; without sense of the want, or savour of the worth and goodness of him to the soul.

Twelfth. Wherefore, I say, it is of absolute necessity that with thy heart thou deal in this
point, and beware of self-deceiving; for if thou fail here, thy desires will fail thee for
ever: 'for the desire of the righteous,' and that only, 'must be granted.'

THE THIRD USE IS CAUTIONARY. Let me here, therefore, caution thee to beware of some things,
by which else, perhaps, thou mayest deceive thyself. And the captain told him, be they Frisian Men from the islands
and coasts and live mostly from the prey, which give the sea and the moors, Christians but they leave
untouched. As the class left off, he proposed a strong and let it be like to go with them, though
it seems so be-ing to him, something horrible people.

They were probably still ten days there at anchor on the banks of the river, because the wind blew
from the west, classes and learned very quickly how to handle the rudder and sail Schiffsgeraeth
and must, for He was very skillful. He was now armed to Seeraeuberart they called themselves
but sea ​​pirates but not the driver or Vikings. Soon class was in full Wagenruestung such as
a Viking. He was, however, when he was in full armor, a chain mail, a iron helmet and a round
plate with bumps, and mentioned in his right hand a sharp Battle and on the left side, a short broad
sword, but for throwing spears and rods to hitting and pushing were in the ship enough that
every mogte use in his own way, when the enemy attacked. Also, it was mighty steel bow and
arrows in size, and thus did class work around probably because he considered the last years with his
father often on the hunt was. He stressed, however, the strongest bow so easily that his companions
were astonished, for even the captain, who was among them for the most powerful, could raise him only
occasionally. When he them fully made the leap again, he with the rod from the shore to the
ship had done, and shout for joy as she rejoiced and thought that these fighters should many
nations still do well to steam *. -------------------------- * Steam: Fall, fall of the word
muting deposition. Schwed. daempa: impact, dimpa: fall down. --------------------------

The tenth day had abgewehet the storm from the west, and there was a fresh south-east, and hisseten
the sails and let the ship on the deep blue run to the west and headed out towards the islands
of the Gentiles. And there was some hot fighting at sea and the coasts and some heath vessel was scaled
and the pagans were killed like mad dogs or captured, and they came home with rich gold and silver,
and sold the robbery and the Prisoners. And class had already made a name for the sea, for if
the dispute began, he called doer degrees! with such a loud voice that the enemies once accounted
for the courage and grew to friends and they won almost always easy victory. And the captain,
though it to the class his strength and his military renown almost envied, but the request had
the Most of his men put up with that on the mirror of the ship a high man with a long pole,
made from his mouth blew the golden letters degree doer. And Graddoer was the most famous ship
in the North Sea and Baltic Sea and far into the North West in the islands of the Gentiles. And there
were the best fighters left their ships and were over to the captain of the Graddoer, and six months
after the date when classes jumped out was, he had taken the fifty fighters well over two hundred
and grew to honor and fear and wealth that it is impossible to describe.

You can not say that this wild and restless life especially liked the classes, but He did as
she said. The fresh element of the sea and the bold spirits of roar and blow him, his youth
well pleases, and fresh brave deeds he refreshed Body and soul, and heathlands ONTO dampen his
own eyes and not just sin, especially as they broke into a wicked and bloodthirsty robbers
of the islands and coasts of Christians and looted and the people led away as slaves and sold in the distant
misery, and since they also all Christian ships were incurred and corrupted, that they could
be powerful. He seemed to argue against such a good battle. Also, it has not made even long before
Klas is captain of the ship Graddoer become.

They were up in the second year of his seafaring sailed high to the north from the west and landed
the fortieth day of its journey to many a hard struggle, with which it enemies and storms had
passed, on a small island of heath, which was inhabited by several hundred people, who lived in
miserable huts, and, it seemed, lived by the sea birds and fish. When they got ashore, they were
peaceful and friendly towards them, wearing fried Fish in trays and held out his Methkanne; weapons
but was not one of them. As the captain left blow to the attack, and exhorted the fighters
with peals of laughter, that they cut down the men and the women do with like, how they longed. And
it arms itself, but escaped with those poor pitiful howl to their huts. As wanted to start
now the men obeyed the captain, suddenly jumped in front of class, pulled out his ax and called
Stop! At the same time he bared his head to the Captain and asked, yes besought him that he would
not so heavy debt load upon himself and so hopeless and unchristian Leave work do not practice
against defenseless men and women, for if they Deputies are pagans and of the living God and the Savior
and salvation do not know anything, so the Seyen but a lot of trouble nations that could do such.
The centurion heard of him but became angry and told the others that they class as an insurgent
caught and ligaments. Klas but staemmte on his battle-ax, saw angry at him and said: Who dare's
- and they were and no one dared. As the captain ordered a second time, and there was Murmur among
the people, and some front steps, as if to lay hands on class. Classic but was now taken by
his anger and his power and shouted doer degrees! and jumped unsheathed his ax to the captain,
who picked up his vain defense, and split through the middle of his head, and cried: He's
paid and has earned his reward, who is a Christ is here to me! And more than half of the men came
over to him, the others but enraged by the slain captain, and took up arms, as if to his Death
revenge. Klas screamed and amortization are doer degrees! and they stood by lightning in the
ground beaten down. Then he admonished them, and the others to peace and taught them how the
Captain had ordered inhuman and unchristian, as Christians patient, meek Being merciful and allowed
and must not sully their hands with innocent blood, and if it be pagan blood shall be: for God
is the Gentiles also Father and Creator. And it were the iron men, when they heard the words,
tears for the rough cheeks and They said: The captain has fallen through God and through you,
and all cried in unison: Klas you shall be our captain! And he was pleased, and was now captain
about two hundred men.

And it soon appeared, as they had done right. Klas had the wild and raw nature, the hitherto been
among them, had gone through probably never loved yet myself, but he had but have to suffer
for the others, although such atrocities were never committed by
them, as wanted to tell the captain now turned against the poor unarmed
people in the pagan island.

When he himself became captain, he led a very strict Christian discipline and encountered without
pity all of its vessels from what is wanted not add it. This was But his first bill that dangle
without mercy on the mast had, who has a non-reinforced Iron man with the injured or raped
a woman. But still he went against the Heiden, cleans the sea from their pirate ships and redeemed
many Christians from the captivity; He also has many places that were otherwise pagan, the holy
cross as the salvation of the World and planted by his justice and mercy led many pagans to Christianity.
And his name is so fully that the bravest men to him and joined him and that he went out in the
second year of his captaincy to twenty vessels already had five thousand fighters. For his honesty
and piety was great and his courage feared, and his strength invincible; to the collision because of his
ax, or the shock his rod had no smith can forge shield and armor.

So when the fourth year of his seafaring and the second year was his captaincy, had he made
a trip to Iceland, but was driven back by a powerful north wind and cunning against the East
Coast was a large peninsula, which heisset Jutland. The peninsula at that time was half pagan and half
Christian, and it had the right few months go to the heathen king defeated the Christian king
and killed and had run over all the land.

He, too, soon had the lock of the Christian king and his wife and daughter, who had won it. The
king's daughter was caught the most beautiful princess in all the lands far and wide. This would
compel the pagan king, that they will be Gemal and should bring him the kingdom, as he did
it with just Hand acquired. And he thought in his haughty mind: they will do and be this as
other women and are pleased that the principal person wants to sleep with her and the king
in the land of her husband means. But she did and was quite different, and steadfastly refused,
and he did not desisted and finally haughty draeuete because she scolded him a tyrant and a wild
pagan Bloodhound. And he was angry about it so much that all his hot flames suddenly cold, and he
swore that she should die for the shame of a hideous and quaalvollen death. And he had a large stake
in the open field aufthuermen near the castle, which He had caught the princess, and then they
should be equal to a common Missethaeterin burned be.

Now it happened by God's destiny, the evil would not let his will, that class with most of its ships
from necessity here that morning just landed when the execution the unfortunate Princess was to happen.
The amount of people around the castle and on the beach and in the field and swarmed all around
roars, the shimmer and the clatter of cars and the sound made by drums and timpani his attention
and he asked at one of the bystanders, who was a Christian, for the cause of the swarm and tumult
the people and the many soldiers.

But that it told him everything and how the Princess will burn in half an hour passed out and
miserable at the stake be, and how not to save Sey before the pagan fury, because had the Heath Koenig
more than ten thousand soldiers with him, which accompany them to death by fire. And Man began
to weep bitterly, as he had all told the misery.

Classic, when he had heard from him all so, was blood-red with pity and anger, and said to the man,
God forbid, and my good iron, that the princess will die! And he cried Degree doer! that the bank
wiederhallete round and answered. And understood his warriors the cry, and in some moments they
were gathered around him, had three thousand in Number and he said to them, to journeyman! fresh
with the God of the Christians! we want the Princess and the Christians of the vile pagans
redeem. If its ten thousand, it is your custom to take any well-to
five up.

Frischauf, then! God sees the heart and not the quantity. So he said, and echoed again doer degrees!
bargain, and ripped it like a bolt away with it just on the bonfire out at the moment when the princess,
with swords and spears surrounded, was led out of the gate. And he had the Blood horn blowing
and trumpeting to the Gentiles, and the king held at their head and called out to his family:
Fresh! Fresh! as the sea always flow back from the dry land needs, and you shall these miserable
pirates zurueckspuelen in their element. And they met hard on each other, but classes and Graddoer
the Gentiles were too powerful, and they fell before Him and his Vikings, as falls before the
sickle Haberstroh, when it's ripe. And when the other Christians of the city and the country
saw that class got the upper hand over the Gentiles, as they stormed from all sides on them, and was
in a few hours of Heath Koenig killed together with all his people to the few, by the speed
of their Horses with the princess were zurueckgeflohen in the castle. This gave a few hours
after the battle of the castle and the princess on the life and the free passage. And Classified
it confessed to them because there were so few, and let it pull in peace.

As the class moved into the castle, there was great joy among all Christian people that God was
humbled by his own savagery and the princess saved from the fire of death, and the old queen
and the redemptive princess came to meet him at the steps of the castle and praised be happy that they
had been freed by such a man. Because by the battle had doer degree they once heard, what a man
they fought for. And they took him by the hand and led him up the stairs of the castle, but
he refused to the bow and in front of the royal women down to the ground as a brave and chivalrous
man fitting, and was about to step behind them.

But she defended him, and said the old queen, where is a princess in the world that is not the
most honored , if such a man is accompanied on her hand and a hero? And he probably had to
obey and refreshment along with his hero at the feast with them and in the castle and the castle
Hostel take.

The Queen had the same intent but with him when she saw classes, and their Raether It had zugefluestert
her, where would a man like this who bring up Christianity here and could tame the heathen?
God has this not as a miracle by the storm hergewehet and shown as the king and savior of the
people? And they had many sweet Thought about her daughter. But still she hid in her heart, and thought:
God will make it even if it is good. And God made it, would be fulfilled with what Valentine had said,
who eat their courage by the pancake mountain, which will once Koenig be.

After class was barely a few hours in the chambers of the palace, he felt in his whole heart
and vice versa, he felt that he had seen a woman, of which his Eyes could not waver. The Princess
was certainly the most beautiful of all, to their Time in the world lived. He felt that with pleasure,
that he shook the heart, but he thought also that he is the son of a village mayor and she was
a princess; and cutting himself with this thought on the forehead and said, Klas, Klas, where
are you going in your folly? here will help your grade doer to do. For all his class was great
Did before always remained mindful of his youth and was always very humble and small God, he alone
beimaass everything, from his own chivalry and beauty, the well-
could attract the hearts of all women of the world, he knew nothing.

So he brought in blinded Reitze the beautiful princess and wounded, a sleepless night sick, and
because his request appeared to him an impossibility, so he decided with the early morning
together with his companions to go back to the ships and sorrow of the savage element to transfer
water to heal when love flames only by water-cooled and deleted could be.

And when it dawned and the light is hardly scary looking through the curtains in the rooms,
he shouted to his men, and it became a running and swarming in the Castle, the Queen and the princess
awoke thereat and heard with amazement and horror that class again would on its ships. And the
old Queen thought for long, they did what they do had dressed himself in haste, threw on her royal
mantle, and went to class into the room to which she spoke these words:

Dear Mr. Klas, what's that for a message that we hear with horror? So will you away, and treat
us not even the kinda sad time that we'll at least with Words can thank? So you want to leave
us? you want the holy cross, you want Christianity, you want the Christians to leave again, and
again of the sword Top jobs?

For the most child you want to leave again, that you just out of the fire and Iron of the heathen
have broken?
 A man stands
amazed and confounded in himself; breaks and falls down on his face before God; is ashamed
to lift up so much as his face to God, at the sight and apprehension of how wicked he is. (3.)
Grace, when it comes, shows to a man more of the holiness and patience of God; his holiness
to make us wonder at his patience, and his patience to make us wonder at his mercy, that yet,
even yet, such a vile one as I am, should be admitted to breathe in the land of the living,
yea more, suffered to come to the throne of grace. (4.) Grace is of a heart-humbling nature:
it will make a man count himself the most unworthy of anything, of all saints. It will make
a man put all others afore him, and be glad too, if he may be one beloved, though least beloved,
because most unworthy. It will make him with gladness accept of the lowest room, as counting
all saints more worthy of exaltation than himself. (5.) Grace will make a man prize other men's
graces and gracious actions above his own. As he thinks every man's candle burns brighter than
his, every man improves grace better than he, every good man does more sincerely his duty than
he. And if these be not some of the effects of the renewings of grace, I will confess I have
taken my mark amiss. (6.) Renewings of grace beget renewed self-bemoanings, self-condemnation,
self-abhorrences.

And say thou prayest for communion with, and the presence of God. God can have communion with
thee, and grant thee his presence, and all this shall, instead of comforting of thee at present,
more confound thee, and make thee see thy wickedness (Isa 6:1-5). Some people think they never
have the presence and the renewings of God's grace upon them but when they are comforted, and
when they are cheered up; when, alas! God may be richly with them, while they cry out, By these
visions my sorrows are multiplied; or, because I have seen God, I shall die (Dan 10:8-17; Judg
13:22).

And tell me now, all these things considered, has not grace, even the grace of God, which thou
hast so much desired, been coming to thee, and working in thee in all these hidden methods?
And so doing, has it not also accommodated thee with all the aforenamed conveniences? The which
when thou considerest, I know thou wouldest not be without for all the good of the world. Thus,
therefore, thy desire is accomplishing; and when it is accomplished, will be sweet to thy soul
(Prov 13:19).

5. But we will follow thee a little in the way of thy heart. Thou sayest thou desirest, and
desirest grace, yea, hast been a thousand times upon thy knees before God for more grace, and
yet thou canst not attain. I answer,

(1.) It may be the grace which thou prayest for, is worthy thy being upon thy knees yet a thousand
times more. We find, that usually they that go to king's courts for preferment, are there at
great expenses; yea, and wait a great while, even until they have spent their whole estates,
and worn out their patience too. Yet they at last prevail, and the thing desired comes. Yea,
and when it is come, it sets them up anew, and makes them better men--though they did spend
all that they had to obtain it--than ever they were before. Wait, therefore, wait, I say, on
the Lord (Psa 27:14). Wait therefore with David, wait patiently; bid thy soul cheer up, and
wait (Psa 37:7, 62:5). 'Blessed are all they that wait for him' (Isa 30:18).

(2.) Thou must consider, that great grace is reserved for great service; thou desirest abundance
of grace, thou dost well, and thou shalt have what shall qualify and fit thee for the service
that God has for thee to do for him, and for his name in the world. The apostles themselves
were to stay for great grace until the time of their work was come (Acts 1:4-8, 4:33). I will
not allot thy service, but assure thyself, when thy desire cometh, thou wilt have occasion
for it; new work, new trials, new sufferings, or something that will call for the power and
virtue of all the grace thou shalt have to keep thy spirit even, and thy feet from slipping,
while thou art exercised in new engagements. Assure thyself, thy God will not give thee straw,
but he will expect brick: 'For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required;
and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more' (Luke 12:48). Wherefore,
as thou art busy in desiring more grace, be also desirous that wisdom to manage it with faithfulness
may also be granted unto thee. Thou wilt say, Grace, if I had it, will do all this for me.
It will, and will not. It will, if thou watch and be sober; it will not, if thou be foolish
and remiss. Men of great grace may grow consumptive in grace, and idleness may turn him that
wears a plush jacket into rags.[20] David was once a man of great grace, but his sin made the
grace which he had to shrink up, and dwindle away, as to make him cry out, O! 'take not thy
holy spirit' utterly 'from me' (Psa 51:11, 119:8). Or, perhaps God withholds what thou wouldest
have, that it may be the more prized by thee when it comes: 'Hope deferred maketh the heart
sick, but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life' (Prov 13:12).

6. Lastly, but dost thou think that thy more grace will exempt thee from temptations? Alas!
the more grace, as was hinted, the greater trials. Thou must be, for all that, like the ship
of which thou readest, sometimes high, sometimes low; sometimes steady, sometimes staggering;
sometimes in, and sometimes even at the end of thy very wits. For 'so he brings us to our desired
haven' (Psa 107:23-30). Yet grace is the gold and preciousness of the righteous man: yea, and
herein appears the uprightness of his soul, in that though all these things attend the grace
of God in him, yet he chooseth grace here above all, for that it makes him the more like God
and his Christ, and for that it seasons his heart best to his own content; and also for that
it capacitates him to glorify God in the world.

[THE CONCLUSION.]

Is it so? Is this the sum of all, namely, That 'the fear of the wicked it shall come upon him,'
and that 'the desire of the righteous shall be granted?' Then this shows us what is determined
concerning both. Concerning the wicked, that all his hopes shall not bring him to heaven; and
concerning the righteous, that all his fears shall not bring him to hell. But what a sad thing
is it for one to be a wicked man! He may twist and twine, and seek to work himself from under
the sentence passed upon him; but all will do him no pleasure: 'the wicked is driven away in
his wickedness. But the righteous hath hope in his death' (Prov 14:32). Loth he is to be righteous
now; and as loth he will be to be found in his sins at the dreadful day of doom. But so it
must be: 'Upon the wicked God shall rain snares, fire, and brimstone, and a horrible' burning
'tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup' (Psa 11:6).

'Woe unto the wicked' therefore: 'it shall be ill with him, for the reward of his hands shall
be given him' (Isa 3:10). The just God will recompense both the righteous and the wicked, even
according to their works. And yet for all this the wicked will not hear! When I read God's
Word, and see how the wicked follow their sins, yea, dance in the ways of their own destruction,
it is astonishing to me. Their actions declare them, though not Atheists in principle, yet
such in practice.[21] What do all their acts declare, but this, that they either know not God,
or fear not what he can do unto them? But, O! how will they change their note, when they see
what will become of them! How wan will they look! Yea, the hair of their heads will stand on
end for fear; for their fear is their portion; nor can their fears, nor their prayers, nor
their entreaties, nor their wishes, nor their repentings, help them in this day. And thus have
I showed you what are the 'desires of the righteous,' and that the 'fear of the wicked shall
come upon him, but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.'

FOOTNOTES:

[1] How blessed are those whose light shines so clearly as to be known and read of all men.
A brand plucked from the burning bears the marks of fire, but is not consuming.--Ed.

[2] 'A very Abraham,' or an Abraham cove. Cant terms formerly applied to poor silly half-naked
men, or to sturdy beggars.

[3] To possess with or of; to cause to possess or to be possessed with--

    'At the port (Lord) he give her to thy hand,
    And by the way possesse thee what she is.'
            Troylus and Cressida, act 4, s. 4.

     'thou hast given me to possess
    Life in myself for ever.'
            Milton's Paradise Lost, book iii, 243.

[4] Establishes our opinions, or fixes them in us. 'Our young men being principled by these
new philosophers.'--Cudworth. Then he sits, a long lean man in an iron armor, fury and rage his eyes sparkle
and fire flies from his face, his body is voruebergebeugt because It always echoing roaring gallop
goes, swinging his right hand a long whip, with which he goes off and his game aufjagt or pursued
on the Haueter. Mad dog innumerable swarm around him and make a terrible roar and howl, but
he is calling from Time to time bargain vodka! Wod! Hello! Hello! Hold your balance! Hold your
balance! His Ride is mostly through wild forests and desolate heaths and in the middle of the
ordinary streets and means he can not ride. He meets by chance at a crossroads, so he throws in a
horse and all hands to terrible head and pulled himself far beyond to the first again, but even
that which he hunts, this allowed the Cross not come too close.

And as he hunts for venison? In all the animals and predatory thieving rabble which creeps at
night on murder and prey, wolves, foxes, Luechse, cats, martens, Polecats, rats, mice and humans
murderers, thieves, robbers, witches and sorcerers and every living creature of dark and nocturnal
Arts. He must villain, in the Life were causing so much misery, it certain extent make up for
in death. He holds, what people say, clean the street, for woe, which he by night while forbidden
or byways in the fields and woods encounters, and not a good conscience has! How many must
have trembled when his Hoho! Hello! Hold your balance! Maintenance the middle! listen up! He
usually chases because of what he gets from his whip, as long until it reaches the tongue
out of his mouth and falls dead. The strictest is the wild Jaeger against witches and sorcerers,
that death is the surest, if he once has his game if they are not a witch or a Alfranke strap
where they durchschluepfen Users who enjoy because they are for the free time. Alfranke is
a small shrub in the forest is in early spring and grows green and the like wraps and twines around other
trees and often makes a loop with an opening, which can slip a bit. Just grow so individual
branches of trees often so wonderfully together, that it is a round hole of a loop same form,
often far enough that an ox could durchschluepfen, a how much easier Man! This is called a witch
or a witch slip sling, for when they in trouble and thus make such a wipe, no one may touch them.

Master
Hans Scharpsteker into Soltwedel vam Office of the Snider un Schroeder lewd Mennigen Dag Siner
Fru eener childless in Eh, which is very un sin datt bedroewt Geslecht utgahn Schull, un plag
to sedge: Dat was de Stadt Foehl when de Scharpsteker name missing
ore, for as long as think se can un Eva bet in the voerbadenen Appel,
datt de bekleden Minsche honor would have to sin; hebben Scharpstekers
as the Office of the Kledermakers setae.

Scharpsteker aewerst noemde de Snider nuemmer anners as Kledermakers. At last, as de Kopp anfung
em all to gris, sine sede Fru eenmal to em: Klas, ick weet, wat you weets non, un laughed date.


[12] Blessed be God the sword is for the present sheathed. Marvellous was the indomitable courage
of the martyrs under papacy, and, in a later day, of the Scottish Covenanters. They saw their
friends and ministers tortured and murdered--the pain of the boots must have been inconceivable--the
bones of their legs were crushed between pieces of iron, and, even when death had released
the victim, savage barbarity was practised upon his mutilated remains; the head and hands were
cut off and exhibited upon a pike, the hands fixed as in the attitude of prayer, to mock the
holiest duty. Can we wonder that lambs became lions, overthrew the horrid enemy, and drove
out State Episcopacy for ever?--Ed.

[13] The noise made by animals of the stag or hart species is called, by Goldsmith, bellowing.
It strikes the ear as something beneath the dignity of a hart to bray like an ass. Bunyan found
the word in the margin of Psalm 42:1, 'The hart panteth.' Heb. 'Brayeth, after the water brooks.'--Ed.

[14] Saffron was formerly cultivated near Bunyan's residence, but, although sold at a very
high price, it scarcely paid for its expense. In the flowering season, it was needful to gather
the flowers every morning as they came to perfection.--Ed.

[15] The Israelites entered the wilderness fourteen hundred and ninety-one years before Christ.
The prophecy of Jeremiah was delivered six hundred and twenty-nine years before Christ. This
remembrance was eight hundred and sixty-two years after that memorable event. With God there
can be no forgetfulness; a thousand years in his sight are but as yesterday.--Ed.

[16] How striking the contrast, but yet how true! A whip, whose cords were made of the flames
of hell, could no more arouse a sinner dead in trespass and sins than a crown of glory could
allure him. With all the dread realities of the world to come pressed upon the conscience by
a faithful minister, still, alas! how many maintain their downward course. The duty is ours
to prophesy upon the dry bones. God and his gracious Spirit alone can raise them up to holy,
happy enjoyments.--Ed.

[17] This language is as expressive and original as it is like Bunyan. Death takes the sinner
by the throat, and 'hands him down stairs to the grave.' The indulgence in any sinful propensity
has this downward, deathly tendency. Every lust, whether for riches or honours, for gambling,
wine, or women, leads the deluded wretched votary step by step to the chambers of death. There
is no hope in the dread prospect; trouble and anguish possess the spirit. Hast thou escaped,
O my soul, from the net of the infernal fowler? Never forget that it is as a brand snatched
from the burning. O to grace how great a debtor.--Ed. The question was therefore hastened to negotiate
brought. Sir Edward Hales, a gentleman from Kent, was at one time, since it only for a reasonably
well-known man was not prudent to declare themselves open to a papist, a convert to popery.
He had kept the matter secret, and when he was asked always with a solemnity that his character
did little honor, assured that he Protestant was. After Jacob ascended the throne, was no longer necessary
adjustment. Sir Edward Hales publicly declared his conversion and was rewarded with the command
of an infantry regiment. This job he held only three months, without having taken the oath, and he
had by a fine of five hundred pounds of forfeited to a complainant by a debt action could recover.
 About sixty years ago a next door
neighbour, a hatter, gained a prize in the lottery of ten thousand pounds--he became intoxicated
with his wealth, moved to the fashionable end of London, went into a large way of business,
dissipated his fortune, and died in a workhouse! Christian, if you have unexpected enjoyments,
be watchful; it is to fit you for trials.--Ed.

[21] This is one of the most decisive proofs of the awfully degraded state of human nature.
Men believe, or pretend to believe, that this life is but a span in companions with eternity--that
there is a heaven to reward the righteous and a hell to receive the unconverted sinner; and
yet make no personal inquiry at the holy oracles of God whether they have been born again to
newness of life, or whether they remain in their sins. However, reassured he
Protestant Episcopalians by the assurance that he is indeed committed to Roman Catholic Church
to take them in protection, but is also well done have to protect them against any attack by
the fanatics.ÿ