A LEGEND OF MONTROSE

by

Sir Walter Scott

CONTENTS.

     I.      Introduction to A LEGEND OF MONTROSE.
     II.     Introduction (Supplement).  Sergeant More M'Alpin.
     III.    Main text of A LEGEND OF MONTROSE.
     IV.     Appendix    No. I       Clan Alpin's Vow.
     No. II      The Children of the Mist.
     V.      Notes       Note I      Fides et Fiducia sunt relativa.
     Note II     Wraiths.

I. INTRODUCTION TO A LEGEND OF MONTROSE.

The Legend of Montrose was written chiefly with a view to place before the reader the melancholy
fate of John Lord Kilpont, eldest son of William Earl of Airth and Menteith, and the singular
circumstances attending the birth and history of James Stewart of Ardvoirlich, by whose hand
the unfortunate nobleman fell.

Our subject leads us to talk of deadly feuds, and we must begin with one still more ancient
than that to which our story relates. During the reign of James IV., a great feud between the
powerful families of Drummond and Murray divided Perthshire. The former, being the most numerous
and powerful, cooped up eight score of the Murrays in the kirk of Monivaird, and set fire to
it. The wives and the children of the ill-fated men, who had also found shelter in the church,
perished by the same conflagration. One man, named David Murray, escaped by the humanity of
one of the Drummonds, who received him in his arms as he leaped from amongst the flames. As
King James IV. ruled with more activity than most of his predecessors, this cruel deed was
severely revenged, and several of the perpetrators were beheaded at Stirling. In consequence
of the prosecution against his clan, the Drummond by whose assistance David Murray had escaped,
fled to Ireland, until, by means of the person whose life he had saved, he was permitted to
return to Scotland, where he and his descendants were distinguished by the name of Drummond-Eirinich,
or Ernoch, that is, Drummond of Ireland; and the same title was bestowed on their estate.

The Drummond-ernoch of James the Sixth's time was a king's forester in the forest of Glenartney,
and chanced to be employed there in search of venison about the year 1588, or early in 1589.
This forest was adjacent to the chief haunts of the MacGregors, or a particular race of them,
known by the title of MacEagh, or Children of the Mist. They considered the forester's hunting
in their vicinity as an aggression, or perhaps they had him at feud, for the apprehension or
slaughter of some of their own name, or for some similar reason. This tribe of MacGregors were
outlawed and persecuted, as the reader may see in the Introduction to ROB ROY; and every man's
hand being against them, their hand was of course directed against every man. In short, they
surprised and slew Drummond-ernoch, cut off his head, and carried it with them, wrapt in the
corner of one of their plaids.

In the full exultation of vengeance, they stopped at the house of Ardvoirlich and demanded
refreshment, which the lady, a sister of the murdered Drummond-ernoch (her husband being absent),
was afraid or unwilling to refuse. She caused bread and cheese to be placed before them, and
gave directions for more substantial refreshments to be prepared. While she was absent with
this hospitable intention, the barbarians placed the head of her brother on the table, filling
the mouth with bread and cheese, and bidding him eat, for many a merry meal he had eaten in
that house.

The poor woman returning, and beholding this dreadful sight, shrieked aloud, and fled into
the woods, where, as described in the romance, she roamed a raving maniac, and for some time
secreted herself from all living society. Some remaining instinctive feeling brought her at
length to steal a glance from a distance at the maidens while they milked the cows, which being
observed, her husband, Ardvoirlich, had her conveyed back to her home, and detained her there
till she gave birth to a child, of whom she had been pregnant; after which she was observed
gradually to recover her mental faculties.

Meanwhile the outlaws had carried to the utmost their insults against the regal authority,
which indeed, as exercised, they had little reason for respecting. They bore the same bloody
trophy, which they had so savagely exhibited to the lady of Ardvoirlich, into the old church
of Balquidder, nearly in the centre of their country, where the Laird of MacGregor and all
his clan being convened for the purpose, laid their hands successively on the dead man's head,
and swore, in heathenish and barbarous manner, to defend the author of the deed. This fierce
and vindictive combination gave the author's late and lamented friend, Sir Alexander Boswell,
Bart., subject for a spirited poem, entitled "Clan-Alpin's Vow," which was printed, but not,
I believe, published, in 1811 [See Appendix No. I].

The fact is ascertained by a proclamation from the Privy Council, dated 4th February, 1589,
directing letters of fire and sword against the MacGregors [See Appendix No. II]. This fearful
commission was executed with uncommon fury. The late excellent John Buchanan of Cambusmore
showed the author some correspondence between his ancestor, the Laird of Buchanan, and Lord
Drummond, about sweeping certain valleys with their followers, on a fixed time and rendezvous,
and "taking sweet revenge for the death of their cousin, Drummond-ernoch." In spite of all,
however, that could be done, the devoted tribe of MacGregor still bred up survivors to sustain
and to inflict new cruelties and injuries.

[I embrace the opportunity given me by a second mention of this tribe, to notice an error,
which imputes to an individual named Ciar Mohr MacGregor, the slaughter of the students at
the battle of Glenfruin. I am informed from the authority of John Gregorson, Esq., that the
chieftain so named was dead nearly a century before the battle in question, and could not,
therefore, have done the cruel action mentioned. The mistake does not rest with me, as I disclaimed
being responsible for the tradition while I quoted it, but with vulgar fame, which is always
disposed to ascribe remarkable actions to a remarkable name.--See the erroneous passage, ROB
ROY, Introduction; and so soft sleep the offended phantom of Dugald Ciar Mohr.

It is with mingled pleasure and shame that I record the more important error, of having announced
as deceased my learned acquaintance, the Rev. Dr. Grahame, minister of Aberfoil.--See ROB ROY,
p.360. I cannot now recollect the precise ground of my depriving my learned and excellent friend
of his existence, unless, like Mr. Kirke, his predecessor in the parish, the excellent Doctor
had made a short trip to Fairyland, with whose wonders he is so well acquainted. But however
I may have been misled, my regret is most sincere for having spread such a rumour; and no one
can be more gratified than I that the report, however I have been induced to credit and give
it currency, is a false one, and that Dr. Grahame is still the living pastor of Aberfoil, for
the delight and instruction of his brother antiquaries.]

Meanwhile Young James Stewart of Ardvoirlich grew up to manhood uncommonly tall, strong, and
active, with such power in the grasp of his hand in particular, as could force the blood from
beneath the nails of the persons who contended with him in this feat of strength. His temper
was moody, fierce, and irascible; yet he must have had some ostensible good qualities, as he
was greatly beloved by Lord Kilpont, the eldest son of the Earl of Airth and Menteith.

This gallant young nobleman joined Montrose in the setting up his standard in 1644, just before
the decisive battle at Tippermuir, on the 1st September in that year. At that time, Stewart
of Ardvoirlich shared the confidence of the young Lord by day, and his bed by night, when,
about four or five days after the battle, Ardvoirlich, either from a fit of sudden fury or
deep malice long entertained against his unsuspecting friend, stabbed Lord Kilpont to the heart,
and escaped from the camp of Montrose, having killed a sentinel who attempted to detain him.
Bishop Guthrie gives us a reason for this villainous action, that Lord Kilpont had rejected
with abhorrence a proposal of Ardvoirlich to assassinate Montrose. But it does not appear that
there is any authority for this charge, which rests on mere suspicion. Ardvoirlich, the assassin,
certainly did fly to the Covenanters, and was employed and promoted by them. He obtained a
pardon for the slaughter of Lord Kilpont, confirmed by Parliament in 1634, and was made Major
of Argyle's regiment in 1648. Such are the facts of the tale here given as a Legend of Montrose's
wars. The reader will find they are considerably altered in the fictitious narrative.

The author has endeavoured to enliven the tragedy of the tale by the introduction of a personage
proper to the time and country. In this he has been held by excellent judges to have been in
some degree successful. The contempt of commerce entertained by young men having some pretence
to gentility, the poverty of the country of Scotland, the national disposition to wandering
and to adventure, all conduced to lead the Scots abroad into the military service of countries
which were at war with each other. They were distinguished on the Continent by their bravery;
but in adopting the trade of mercenary soldiers, they necessarily injured their national character. February
18.

During the remainder of the night we stood off and on and experienced a current setting in the
direction of North 52 degrees West one mile per hour. At eight o'clock the next morning (18th)
Adele Island was seen; and in the afternoon we passed at a mile and a half from the western
side of the reef which surrounds it. This island is low and sandy and covered with small bushes;
it is about two or three miles in length; a dry sand extends for five miles from its south
end, and as far as one mile from its north-west point; but the covered part of the reef is
more extensive, and appeared rocky. At the distance of three miles and a half, in a north-west
direction from its north end, are two dry sandbanks which are probably
covered at high-water.

Light-coloured water extended for three miles to the westward and for fourteen miles to the
north-west; but the water is probably deep enough over it for any vessel to pass: we steered
over the tail within the coloured water, but had no bottom with forty-five fathoms. In many parts
near the island the rocks must be very little below the surface of the water, for the sea occasionally
broke upon them.

We then steered to the East and East-North-East and at night made short trips on either tack.
The weather was extremely sultry during the afternoon, the thermometer being at 89 degrees,
and when exposed to the sun the mercury rose to 125 degrees. Towards sunset large flights
of boobies, terns, and other sea-birds passed by, flying towards the islands. One or two stopped
to notice us and flew round the brig several times.

February 19.

The night was fine with light south-west winds; but we had lightning in the North-East, from
which quarter at daylight the weather clouded in; and, from the increasing dampness of the atmosphere,
indicated rain.

At noon we were in 15 degrees 12 minutes 15 seconds South and 7 minutes 1 second east of the anchorage
in Cygnet Bay. The wind was from the southward with dull cloudy weather. Large flights of birds
were about the vessel, preying upon small fish swimming among the seaweed, of which we passed a great quantity.
As the evening approached the weather clouded in and threatened us with another squall from
the eastward. The thermometer stood at 88 degrees, and the barometer at 29.81 inches: half an
hour before sunset the clouds, which had collected in the eastern horizon, began to thicken and
approach us with loud thunder and vivid lightning: all the sails, except the topsails which were lowered,
were furled just in time to avoid any bad effects from the squall, which commenced with a strong
gust from East-South-East and East; it lasted about an hour, during
the latter part of which we had very heavy rain.

At eight o'clock the wind fell to a calm and was afterwards baffling and light from north
to east and south-east.

February 20.

At daylight (20th) the morning was dull and cloudy: a bank of heavy threatening clouds, rising
from the eastward, induced my steering to the westward to await the issue of this weather, so
unfavourable for our doing any good upon the coast, as well as increasing
the danger of navigating among reefs and islands where the tides were
so strong.

The next morning at daylight we had a squall with rain and wind from the eastward after which
a fresh breeze set in from the same quarter: as this weather appeared likely to last I very unwillingly
determined upon leaving the coast and returning immediately to Port
Jackson.

February 21 to 24.

From the 21st until the 24th we had moderate winds between north and south-east which gradually
drew us out of the influence of the damp, unwholesome weather we so lately experienced. Our
course was held to the northward of Rowley's Shoals which, upon passing, we found a strong current
setting towards them at the rate of one mile an hour. This indraught increases the danger of
navigating near this part but I do not recollect having experienced any when we passed them
in June, 1818. The current, therefore, that we felt, may be only of temporary duration, and
probably caused by the variable state of the wind.

1822. February 24 to March 3.

Between the 24th of February and the 3rd of March we had light and variable winds from all directions
but, being more frequent from the eastward than from any other point of the compass, I became
reconciled to the step I had taken of leaving the coast, since it would not have been possible
to have reached Port George the Fourth to effect any good.

The thermometer now ranged between 87 and 89 degrees and the weather was consequently extremely
oppressive and sultry.

March 3 to 11.

On the 3rd at noon we were in latitude 18 degrees 45 minutes 18 seconds and longitude 111 degrees
4 minutes 15 seconds when a breeze sprang up from the South-east and carried us within the influence
of the trade, which blew steadily between South-South-east and South by East and advanced us on our passage
but carried us considerably to the westward. On this course we were accompanied by immense
shoals of albicores (Scomber thynnus, Linn.) but they were of small size; very few measured
more than twenty inches in length, and the average weight about ten pounds: The meat was very good and
tender and as a great number of the fish were caught, proved a grateful relief to our salt
diet. The atmosphere was very damp and before the vessel entered the trade we had lightning
every night, but it ceased the moment that we were within its limits. Tropic and other oceanic
birds, some of a dark brown colour, hovered about us and were our daily companions, particularly
the latter which preyed upon the small fish that were pursued by
the albicores.

March 11 to 14.

From the 11th to the 14th the trade ceased and the interval was supplied by a northerly wind,
veering round to west, which enabled us to make up for the ground we had lost by its having been
so much from the southward. After this we had variable breezes between South and East-South-East
but the current, which before had been setting us to the north-west, now set to the north-east;
this change was probably occasioned by the south-westerly swell.

On the 14th we were in 27 degrees 49 minutes South, and 101 degrees 1 minute East. Some tropic birds
were seen this morning but as yet neither albatrosses nor pintadoes had made their appearance.
During the short cessation of the trade the atmosphere was very dry until the south-easterly winds
returned, when it became more humid; but as we approached the southern limit of this South-East
wind, which may be considered to bear more of the character of a periodical wind than the
trade, the atmosphere became altogether drier; it carried us as far
as 32 degrees 40 minutes South and 96 degrees 42 minutes West before
it veered to the northward of east when, after a calm, we had north-easterly
winds and fine weather of which we made good use.

The first albatross was seen in 31 1/ 4 degrees South and was flying about the brig at the same time
with a tropic bird, which is a remarkable occurrence, for I never saw the latter bird before so
far without the tropic; but here was one nearly five hundred miles to the southward of it, and at
least three hundred leagues from the nearest land; an albatross (Diomedea exulans, Linn.) was
shot, but did not measure more than nine feet nine inches across
the tips of the wings.

February 25.

On the 25th of February we examined our water and found the casks so much damaged by rats that
instead of having thirteen tons we had only nine on board, but as this was thought to be sufficient
for our voyage the daily issue was not reduced.

March 28.

On the 28th of March however it was found necessary to make a considerable
reduction in the allowance.

April
13.

On the 13th of April the north-west end of Van Diemen's Land came in sight but it was not until
the 15th that we entered Bass Strait by the passage between King's and Hunter's Islands. Off
Cape Howe we boarded a trading brig belonging to Port Jackson bound
to Van Diemen's Land, from which we obtained pleasing and satisfactory
news of our friends at Sydney, as also the gratifying intelligence
of the promotion of myself to the rank of commander, and of Messrs.
Bedwell and Roe to that of lieutenant.

The promotion of the latter gentleman was under circumstances of
the most flattering nature, and here not only offers a most satisfactory
proof of the approbation bestowed by the Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty upon my zealous assistant, but precludes me from the otherwise
pleasing task of giving my humble testimonial of his conduct and
merits.

Between Cape Howe and Port Jackson we experienced much bad weather,
which delayed our arrival so long that we had expended all our bread
and were reduced to a very small proportion of water: April 25.

We however succeeded in effecting our arrival at Sydney by the 25th, after an absence of 344 days.
1822. April 25 to September 25.

Upon an examination of the brig's defects after our arrival at Port
Jackson her stern and cut-water were found so defective as to require
a considerable repair; but from the difficulty of procuring seasoned
wood, so long a time elapsed before it was effected that we were not
ready for sea until the beginning of September, when other delays
of minor importance detained us until the 25th.

At Port Jackson I found orders from the Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty to return to England in the Bathurst when the survey should
be completed; but as we were in want of many things that the colony
could not furnish, and as we should be detained until the month of
February before the monsoon would allow of our going upon the coast;
it was deemed most advantageous for the public service to return without
making another voyage.

Accordingly on the 25th September we sailed from Sydney with the
intention of proceeding to the north through Torres Strait, and calling
at the Mauritius on our way; but no sooner had we put to sea than
a hard gale set in from the north which induced me to bear up and
either to go round Van Diemen's Land to the westward, if the wind
should favour such a proceeding, or, by doubling the south end of
New Zealand to make the eastern passage round Cape Horn.

1822. October 6. Having reached the south-east end of Van Diemen's Land on the 6th of October, and
a fresh north-easterly wind setting in at the same time, I determined upon adopting the first plan;
and therefore proceeded round the south side of the island, in doing which I had the opportunity
of verifying some observations formerly taken by which it appeared that the coast between Storm
Bay and the South-west Cape was very erroneously laid down both by
Captain Flinders and the French expeditions under d'Entrecasteaux
and Baudin.

On my voyage to Macquarie Harbour in 1819 I found so many errors in the bearings that were taken
as induced me to suspect an original error, and on this occasion a
very considerable one was detected. When Captain Flinders passed round
Van Diemen's Land in the Norfolk he obtained a meridional supplementary
altitude of the sun to the south, his vessel being under the land, which
made the South-west Cape in 43 degrees 29 minutes South; but finding
the next day that his instrument was 2 minutes 40 seconds in error
to the north he assigned to the cape a position of 43 degrees 32
minutes.

In the Introduction to his voyage* he makes some remarks in a note upon the positions assigned
to it by Captains Cook and Furneaux; the latter officer placed it in 43 degrees 39 minutes, in
which I also found it to be by its transient bearing from the South Cape. By a series of bearings
carried along the coast its position is thirty-three miles West 3 degrees South true, from the
South Cape. (* Footnote.

Flinders volume 1 Introduction page 179.) All parts of the coast
in this interval are proportionally in error as to latitude but tolerably
well placed in reference to the coast.

The subjoined are the positions now assigned to the following places, namely: COLUMN 1: NAME OF PLACE. COLUMN
2: LATITUDE. COLUMN 3: LONGITUDE ACCORDING TO CAPTAIN FLINDERS'SURVEY.
South Cape: 43 degrees 38 minutes: 146 degrees 56 minutes. Mewstone: 43
degrees 46 minutes: 146 degrees 31 1/ 2 minutes. South-west Cape: 43
degrees 39 minutes: 146 degrees 12 minutes. The south-east cape of Bruny
Island, Tasman's Head, is also placed too much to the southward in Captain
Flinders'chart as well as in that of Baudin.

From the Mermaid it was set in a line with the south-east cape on the bearing of North 56 degrees
East (the vessel's head being to the eastward); and on this occasion (the brig's head being
to the westward) it bore, when in the same line, North 53 degrees
East.

The variation in the latter case was 9 degrees East, but in the former no more than 6 degrees was allowed,
and Captain Flinders found even 4 degrees sufficient. I passed outside the Mewstone and took
its bearing as it came on with the points of the land between the south-west and the south-east
capes, by which I satisfied myself beyond a doubt of the correctness of my observations and of the
error into which Captain Flinders had fallen, and which must either be attributed to the imperfection
of his instrument or to his reading off the altitude 10 minutes in
error; and as there is just that difference between it and the position assigned
by Captain Furneaux, which is also confirmed by my observation, the
probability is in favour of the last conjecture.

After leaving the coast of Van Diemen's Land we had much damp, unwholesome weather, and a succession
of heavy westerly gales, in which the brig was occasionally much
pressed.

1822. November 8-31.

And it was not until the 8th of November that we made Bald Island, which is to the eastward of King
George's Sound. We were now much in need of a place to caulk the bends, as well as to repair some temporary
damage to the rigging and complete our wood and water.

I therefore seized the opportunity of our being near the sound and, steering into it, anchored
off the sandy bay within Seal Island and immediately commenced operations.

We were however much delayed by hard westerly gales, which not only
prevented the carpenter's caulking, but also delayed our watering,
since the boat could not pull to the shore; but as the anchorage was
well sheltered we suffered no further inconvenience than the delay.

A few days after our arrival we were surprised by the appearance
of a strange vessel beating into the sound; she proved to be an American
schooner on a sealing voyage and was coming in for the purpose of
careening and cleaning the vessel's bottom in Oyster Harbour.

The natives also made their appearance and some of them being our
old friends, immediately recognised us.

As there was no wood convenient to our anchorage I moved the vessel to the entrance of Princess
Royal Harbour, near the northern head of which, at the south end of the long sandy beach, the trees
were growing in abundance close to the beach: it was at this place also that Captain Flinders obtained
his wood; and excepting the entrance of Oyster Harbour it is the most convenient place in the whole
sound. Whilst at this last anchorage we were visited by the natives, many of them strangers; they
were accompanied by our old friend Coolbun, the native that, upon
our former visit, was so noisy in explaining to his companions the
effect of the shot that was fired.

On one occasion, when they were on board, an immense shark was hooked, but broke the hook and escaped,
which was a great disappointment to them, for they evidently anticipated a luxurious meal. After this
they went on shore, when the breeze blew so fresh as to make some seasick, very much to the amusement
of those who did not suffer, particularly one of the older men. On this occasion the names of several
of the natives were obtained, which have been inserted with a few additional words at the end
of the list obtained from them during our former visit.* Our friend Jack did not make his appearance,
nor did the natives at all seem to understand for whom we were enquiring.

(* Footnote. See above.) As soon as our wood was completed the brig was moved
to an anchorage off the watering bay which proved a more convenient
place than under Seal Island, as it was better sheltered and nearer
to the watering-place.

After riding out a heavy gale from the westward at single anchor
without any accident and as soon as our water was completed, we again
anchored for a day under Seal Island, but were obliged to make two
attempts before we succeeded in getting out to sea.

Whilst at the anchorage off Princess Royal Harbour I went to Oyster Harbour to procure flowering specimens
of a tree which had hitherto been a subject of much curiosity to botanists: at our former visits
the season was too far advanced; and Mr. Brown was equally unfortunate. The plant resembles xanthorrhoea,
both in its trunk and leaves, but bears its flower in a very different
manner; for, instead of throwing out one long flower scape, it produces
eighteen or twenty short stalks, each terminated by an oval head of
flowers.

I recollected having seen a large grove of these trees growing at a short distance from the outer
beach on the east side of the entrance of the harbour; and on going there found the decayed flowers and seeds
sufficiently perfect to throw a considerable light upon this singular
plant;* several were procured and brought to England.

A drawing of this tree is given in the view of King George's Sound
in Captain Flinders'account of the Investigator's voyage.** In the list
of the plants collected by me upon this occasion was a splendid species
of anigosanthus, which proved to be quite new, and had escaped the
observation both of Mr. Brown and of Mr. Cunningham.

Living plants of various genera were also procured: among which were several of the remarkable
Cephalotus follicularis (Brown) which however alone survived the
voyage, and are now growing in the royal gardens at Kew.

(* Footnote. More perfect specimens were afterwards collected by Mr.
Baxter, and sent, through Mr. Henchman his employer, to my friend
Mr. Brown, the original discoverer of the tree in Captain Flinders'voyage,
and the author of the paper in the appendix at the end of the volume
relating to it.) (** Footnote. Flinders volume 1 page 60.) December
1 to February 9, 1823.

Having effected our departure from King George's Sound we proceeded on our way towards Simon's Bay at the Cape
of Good Hope, which we reached on the 14th January after a passage of forty-six days without
encountering a gale of wind or the occurrence of any event worth recording. February 9 to April
23. We left Simon's Bay on the 9th of February and, after touching at St. Helena and Ascension, crossed
the line in 22 degrees 6 minutes West; and on the 7th of April made the Island of Flores, one
of the Azores. On the same morning we fell in with two French men of war, a frigate and a corvette,
who bore down but, upon showing our colours, hauled their wind and resumed their course without communicating
with us. Between this and the Channel we were delayed by a succession of northerly winds. The Lizard
Lights were made in the night of the 22nd of April and the following day we anchored in Plymouth
Sound; after an absence of more than six years.

It may not be considered irrelevant here to make a few brief observations
upon what has been effected by these voyages, and what yet remains
to be done upon the northern coasts of Australia.

Beginning with the north-eastern coast, I have been enabled to lay down a very safe and convenient
track for vessels bound through Torres Strait, and to delineate the coastline between Cape Hillsborough,
in 20 degrees 54 minutes South, and Cape York, the north extremity
of New South Wales; a distance of six hundred and ninety miles.

As my instructions did not authorise my delaying to examine any part of this coast I could not
penetrate into the many numerous and extensive openings that presented themselves in this space;
particularly in the neighbourhoods of Cape Gloucester, Upstart, and
Cleveland; where the intersected and broken appearances of the hills
at the back are matters of interesting enquiry and research.

My instructions at first confined me between Cape Arnhem and the North-west Cape, but were subsequently
extended to the western coast. The examination of the northern and part
of the north-western coasts, from Wessel Islands to Port George the
Fourth, a distance of seven hundred and ninety miles, has been carefully
made and, with a few exceptions, every opening has been explored.

Those parts in this interval that yet require examination are some inlets on the south side of
Clarence Strait, and one of more considerable size to the eastward of Cambridge Gulf, trending
in to the south-east: otherways, the coast comprised within these limits has been sufficiently
examined for all the purposes of navigation. The coast also between the North-west Cape and Depuch
Island, containing two hundred and twenty miles, has also been sufficiently explored; but between the
latter island and Port George the Fourth, a distance of five hundred and ten miles, it yet remains
almost unknown. The land that is laid down is nothing more than an archipelago of islands fronting
the mainland, the situation of which is quite uncertain. Our examinations of these islands were carried
on as far as Cape Villaret, but between that and Depuch Island the coast has only been seen
by the French, who merely occasionally saw small detached portions of it. At present however this
is conjecture; but the space is of considerable extent and, if there is an opening into the interior
of New Holland, it is in the vicinity of this part. Off the Buccaneer's
Archipelago the tides are strong and rise to the height of thirty-six
feet.

Whatever may exist behind these islands, which we were prevented by our poverty in anchors and other
circumstances from exploring, there are certainly some openings of importance; and it is not
at all improbable that there may be a communication at this part with the interior for a considerable
distance from the coast.

The examination of the western coast was performed during an almost
continued gale of wind, so that we had no opportunity of making any
very careful observation upon its shores.

There can however be very little more worth knowing of them, as I
apprehend the difficulty of landing is too great ever to expect to
gain much information; for it is only in Shark's Bay that a vessel
can anchor with safety.

With respect to the subjects of natural history that have been procured upon the voyage, it is
much to be lamented that the small size of the vessel and our constant professional duties prevented
my extending them. Of quadrupeds we saw but few.

Birds were very numerous but the operation of skinning and preserving
them would have taken up more time than could be afforded.

A few insects, some shells, and a small series of specimens of the geology of the parts we landed at
were among the only things obtained, excepting the extensive and valuable collection of plants
formed by Mr. Cunningham which are now in the possession of Mr. Aiton,
of the Royal Gardens at Kew; for which establishment it would seem
that they were solely procured.

     It was in fact the only department
     of natural history in which any pains were
     taken and for which every assistance was rendered. A small
     herbarium was however collected by me, containing nearly five hundred
species: they are in the possession of my respected friend Aylmer B.
Lambert, Esquire, whose scientific attainments in the field of botany
are well and widely known. It is to be hoped however that the few
subjects offered to the scientific world in the appendix, through
the kindness of my friends, will not be thought uninteresting or unimportant;
and that they will serve to show how very desirable it is to increase
the comparatively slender knowledge that we possess of this extensive
country, which in this respect might still with propriety retain its
ancient name of Terra Australis INCOGNITA.

What added to Sergeant More M'Alpin's distress upon the occasion was, that the chief by whom
this change had been effected, was, by tradition and common opinion, held to represent the
ancient leaders and fathers of the expelled fugitives; and it had hitherto been one of Sergeant
More's principal subjects of pride to prove, by genealogical deduction, in what degree of kindred
he stood to this personage. A woful change was now wrought in his sentiments towards him.

"I cannot curse him," he said, as he rose and strode through the room, when Janet's narrative
was finished--"I will not curse him; he is the descendant and representative of my fathers.
But never shall mortal man hear me name his name again." And he kept his word; for, until his
dying day, no man heard him mention his selfish and hard-hearted chieftain.

After giving a day to sad recollections, the hardy spirit which had carried him through so
many dangers, manned the Sergeant's bosom against this cruel disappointment. "He would go,"
he said, "to Canada to his kinsfolk, where they had named a Transatlantic valley after the
glen of their fathers. Janet," he said, "should kilt her coats like a leaguer lady; d--n the
distance! it was a flea's leap to the voyages and marches he had made on a slighter occasion."

With this purpose he left the Highlands, and came with his sister as far as Gandercleugh, on
his way to Glasgow, to take a passage to Canada. But winter was now set in, and as he thought
it advisable to wait for a spring passage, when the St. Lawrence should be open, he settled
among us for the few months of his stay in Britain. As we said before, the respectable old
man met with deference and attention from all ranks of society; and when spring returned, he
was so satisfied with his quarters, that he did not renew the purpose of his voyage. Janet
was afraid of the sea, and he himself felt the infirmities of age and hard service more than
he had at first expected. And, as he confessed to the clergyman, and my worthy principal, Mr.
Cleishbotham, "it was better staying with kend friends, than going farther, and faring worse."

He therefore established himself and his domicile at Gandercleugh, to the great satisfaction,
as we have already said, of all its inhabitants, to whom he became, in respect of military
intelligence, and able commentaries upon the newspapers, gazettes, and bulletins, a very oracle,
explanatory of all martial events, past, present, or to come.

It is true, the Sergeant had his inconsistencies. He was a steady jacobite, his father and
his four uncles having been out in the forty-five; but he was a no less steady adherent of
King George, in whose service he had made his little fortune, and lost three brothers; so that
you were in equal danger to displease him, in terming Prince Charles, the Pretender, or by
saying anything derogatory to the dignity of King George. Further, it must not be denied, that
when the day of receiving his dividends came round, the Sergeant was apt to tarry longer at
the Wallace Arms of an evening, than was consistent with strict temperance, or indeed with
his worldly interest; for upon these occasions, his compotators sometimes contrived to flatter
his partialities by singing jacobite songs, and drinking confusion to Bonaparte, and the health
of the Duke of Wellington, until the Sergeant was not only flattered into paying the whole
reckoning, but occasionally induced to lend small sums to his interested companions. After
such sprays, as he called them, were over, and his temper once more cool, he seldom failed
to thank God, and the Duke of York, who had made it much more difficult for an old soldier
to ruin himself by his folly, than had been the case in his younger days.

It was not on such occasions that I made a part of Sergeant More M'Alpin's society. But often,
when my leisure would permit, I used to seek him, on what he called his morning and evening
parade, on which, when the weather was fair, he appeared as regularly as if summoned by tuck
of drum. His morning walk was beneath the elms in the churchyard; "for death," he said, "had
been his next-door neighbour for so many years, that he had no apology for dropping the acquaintance."
His evening promenade was on the bleaching-green by the river-side, where he was sometimes
to be seen on an open bench, with spectacles on nose, conning over the newspapers to a circle
of village politicians, explaining military terms, and aiding the comprehension of his hearers
by lines drawn on the ground with the end of his rattan. On other occasions, he was surrounded
by a bevy of school-boys, whom he sometimes drilled to the manual, and sometimes, with less
approbation on the part of their parents, instructed in the mystery of artificial fire-works;
for in the case of public rejoicings, the Sergeant was pyrotechnist (as the Encyclopedia calls
it) to the village of Gandercleugh.

It was in his morning walk that I most frequently met with the veteran. And I can hardly yet
look upon the village footpath, overshadowed by the row of lofty elms, without thinking I see
his upright form advancing towards me with measured step, and his cane advanced, ready to pay
me the military salute--but he is dead, and sleeps with his faithful Janet, under the third
of those very trees, counting from the stile at the west corner of the churchyard.

The delight which I had in Sergeant M'Alpin's conversation, related not only to his own adventures,
of which he had encountered many in the course of a wandering life, but also to his recollection
of numerous Highland traditions, in which his youth had been instructed by his parents, and
of which he would in after life have deemed it a kind of heresy to question the authenticity.
Many of these belonged to the wars of Montrose, in which some of the Sergeant's ancestry had,
it seems, taken a distinguished part. It has happened, that, although these civil commotions
reflect the highest honour upon the Highlanders, being indeed the first occasion upon which
they showed themselves superior, or even equal to their Low-country neighbours in military
encounters, they have been less commemorated among them than any one would have expected, judging
from the abundance of traditions which they have preserved upon less interesting subjects.
It was, therefore, with great pleasure, that I extracted from my military friend some curious
particulars respecting that time; they are mixed with that measure of the wild and wonderful
which belongs to the period and the narrator, but which I do not in the least object to the
reader's treating with disbelief, providing he will be so good as to give implicit credit to
the natural events of the story, which, like all those which I have had the honour to put under
his notice, actually rest upon a basis of truth.

III. A LEGEND OF MONTROSE.

It was during the period of that great and bloody Civil War which agitated Britain during the
seventeenth century, that our tale has its commencement. Scotland had as yet remained free
from the ravages of intestine war, although its inhabitants were much divided in political
opinions; and many of them, tired of the control of the Estates of Parliament, and disapproving
of the bold measure which they had adopted, by sending into England a large army to the assistance
of the Parliament, were determined on their part to embrace the earliest opportunity of declaring
for the King, and making such a diversion as should at least compel the recall of General Leslie's
army out of England, if it did not recover a great part of Scotland to the King's allegiance. Much
might have been done with kindness and a piece of cheese, while we have often seen quite large
steam rollers being enticed along the road by a man with a red flag.***
A Swiss correspondent is informed that "Hindenburg's legs are no longer
strong enough to support him."

The weakness appears to be gradually extending to his arms.*** "The
starched collar must go," remarks a contemporary ruefully.

Not, we hope, before a substitute has been found for some of those unwashable necks.*** "Lady conductors,"
said the Underground Railway official last week, "must remember that
the seats and straps are put there for the use of the passengers."

We know all about straps, but we have often wondered what it feels
like to use one of the seats on the Underground.*** The police have
raided a coining plant in Marylebone.

It is becoming more and more difficult to make money.*** Under a recent Government order the importation
of wild animals into Great Britain is forbidden.

Allotment holders throughout the country hope the order will be read
out to any wireworm or potato-moth that attempts to land at our ports.***
A deputation to the FOOD CONTROLLER has demanded that the allowance
of bread to farm labourers should be increased to two pounds per head
per day.

The amount is considered excessive in view of the national needs, and the alternative course of permitting
them to eat all they can grow is being favourably considered.*** Mr. MITCHEL, the Mayor of New York,
has forbidden musicians to play the National Anthems of the Allies
in ragtime.

Mr.
MITCHEL is a great humanitarian and simply hates the sound of anything
in pain.***



In the West Highlands the ruling party numbered many enemies; but the power of these disaffected
clans was supposed to be broken, and the spirit of their chieftains intimidated, by the predominating
influence of the Marquis of Argyle, upon whom the confidence of the Convention of Estates was
reposed with the utmost security; and whose power in the Highlands, already exorbitant, had
been still farther increased by concessions extorted from the King at the last pacification.
It was indeed well known that Argyle was a man rather of political enterprise than personal
courage, and better calculated to manage an intrigue of state, than to control the tribes of
hostile mountaineers; yet the numbers of his clan, and the spirit of the gallant gentlemen
by whom it was led, might, it was supposed, atone for the personal deficiencies of their chief;
and as the Campbells had already severely humbled several of the neighbouring tribes, it was
supposed these would not readily again provoke an encounter with a body so powerful.

Thus having at their command the whole west and south of Scotland, indisputably the richest
part of the kingdom,--Fifeshire being in a peculiar manner their own, and possessing many and
powerful friends even north of the Forth and Tay,--the Scottish Convention of Estates saw no
danger sufficient to induce them to alter the line of policy they had adopted, or to recall
from the assistance of their brethren of the English Parliament that auxiliary army of twenty
thousand men, by means of which accession of strength, the King's party had been reduced to
the defensive, when in full career of triumph and success.

The causes which moved the Convention of Estates at this time to take such an immediate and
active interest in the civil war of England, are detailed in our historians, but may be here
shortly recapitulated. They had indeed no new injury or aggression to complain of at the hand
of the King, and the peace which had been made between Charles and his subjects of Scotland
had been carefully observed; but the Scottish rulers were well aware that this peace had been
extorted from the King, as well by the influence of the parliamentary party in England, as
by the terror of their own arms. It is true, King Charles had since then visited the capital
of his ancient kingdom, had assented to the new organization of the church, and had distributed
honours and rewards among the leaders of the party which had shown themselves most hostile
to his interests; but it was suspected that distinctions so unwillingly conferred would be
resumed as soon as opportunity offered. The low state of the English Parliament was seen in
Scotland with deep apprehension; and it was concluded, that should Charles triumph by force
of arms against his insurgent subjects of England, he would not be long in exacting from the
Scotch the vengeance which he might suppose due to those who had set the example of taking
up arms against him. Such was the policy of the measure which dictated the sending the auxiliary
army into England; and it was avowed in a manifesto explanatory of their reasons for giving
this timely and important aid to the English Parliament. The English Parliament, they said,
had been already friendly to them, and might be so again; whereas the King, although he had
so lately established religion among them according to their desires, had given them no ground
to confide in his royal declaration, seeing they had found his promises and actions inconsistent
with each other. "Our conscience," they concluded, "and God, who is greater than our conscience,
beareth us record, that we aim altogether at the glory of God, peace of both nations, and honour
of the King, in suppressing and punishing in a legal way, those who are the troublers of Israel,
the firebrands of hell, the Korahs, the Balaams, the Doegs, the Rabshakehs, the Hamans, the
Tobiahs, the Sanballats of our time, which done, we are satisfied. Neither have we begun to
use a military expedition to England as a mean for compassing those our pious ends, until all
other means which we could think upon have failed us: and this alone is left to us, ULTIMUM
ET UNICUM REMEDIUM, the last and only remedy."

Leaving it to casuists to determine whether one contracting party is justified in breaking
a solemn treaty, upon the suspicion that, in certain future contingencies, it might be infringed
by the other, we shall proceed to mention two other circumstances that had at least equal influence
with the Scottish rulers and nation, with any doubts which they entertained of the King's good
faith.

The first of these was the nature and condition of their army; headed by a poor and discontented
nobility, under whom it was officered chiefly by Scottish soldiers of fortune, who had served
in the German wars until they had lost almost all distinction of political principle, and even
of country, in the adoption of the mercenary faith, that a soldier's principal duty was fidelity
to the state or sovereign from whom he received his pay, without respect either to the justice
of the quarrel, or to their own connexion with either of the contending parties. To men of
this stamp, Grotius applies the severe character--NULLUM VITAE GENUS ET IMPROBIUS, QUAM EORUM,
QUI SINE CAUSAE RESPECTU MERCEDE CONDUCTI, MILITANT. To these mercenary soldiers, as well as
to the needy gentry with whom they were mixed in command, and who easily imbibed the same opinions,
the success of the late short invasion of England in 1641 was a sufficient reason for renewing
so profitable an experiment. The good pay and free quarters of England had made a feeling impression
upon the recollection of these military adventurers, and the prospect of again levying eight
hundred and fifty pounds a-day, came in place of all arguments, whether of state or of morality.

Another cause inflamed the minds of the nation at large, no less than the tempting prospect
of the wealth of England animated the soldiery. So much had been written and said on either
side concerning the form of church government, that it had become a matter of infinitely more
consequence in the eyes of the multitude than the doctrines of that gospel which both churches
had embraced. The Prelatists and Presbyterians of the more violent kind became as illiberal
as the Papists, and would scarcely allow the possibility of salvation beyond the pale of their
respective churches. It was in vain remarked to these zealots, that had the Author of our holy
religion considered any peculiar form of church government as essential to salvation, it would
have been revealed with the same precision as under the Old Testament dispensation. Both parties
continued as violent as if they could have pleaded the distinct commands of Heaven to justify
their intolerance, Laud, in the days of his domination, had fired the train, by attempting
to impose upon the Scottish people church ceremonies foreign to their habits and opinions.
The success with which this had been resisted, and the Presbyterian model substituted in its
place, had endeared the latter to the nation, as the cause in which they had triumphed. The
Solemn League and Covenant, adopted with such zeal by the greater part of the kingdom, and
by them forced, at the sword's point, upon the others, bore in its bosom, as its principal
object, the establishing the doctrine and discipline of the Presbyterian church, and the putting
down all error and heresy; and having attained for their own country an establishment of this
golden candlestick, the Scots became liberally and fraternally anxious to erect the same in
England. This they conceived might be easily attained by lending to the Parliament the effectual
assistance of the Scottish forces. The Presbyterians, a numerous and powerful party in the
English Parliament, had hitherto taken the lead in opposition to the King; while the Independents
and other sectaries, who afterwards, under Cromwell, resumed the power of the sword, and overset
the Presbyterian model both in Scotland and England, were as yet contented to lurk under the
shelter of the wealthier and more powerful party. The prospect of bringing to a uniformity
the kingdoms of England and Scotland in discipline and worship, seemed therefore as fair as
it was desirable.

The celebrated Sir Henry Vane, one of the commissioners who negotiated the alliance betwixt
England and Scotland, saw the influence which this bait had upon the spirits of those with
whom he dealt; and although himself a violent Independent, he contrived at once to gratify
and to elude the eager desires of the Presbyterians, by qualifying the obligation to reform
the Church of England, as a change to be executed "according to the word of God, and the best
reformed churches." Deceived by their own eagerness, themselves entertaining no doubts on the
JUS DIVINUM of their own ecclesiastical establishments, and not holding it possible such doubts
could be adopted by others, the Convention of Estates and the Kirk of Scotland conceived, that
such expressions necessarily inferred the establishment of Presbytery; nor were they undeceived,
until, when their help was no longer needful, the sectaries gave them to understand, that the
phrase might be as well applied to Independency, or any other mode of worship, which those
who were at the head of affairs at the time might consider as agreeable "to the word of God,
and the practice of the reformed churches." Neither were the outwitted Scottish less astonished
to find, that the designs of the English sectaries struck against the monarchial constitution
of Britain, it having been their intention to reduce the power of the King, but by no means
to abrogate the office. They fared, however, in this respect, like rash physicians, who commence
by over-physicking a patient, until he is reduced to a state of weakness, from which cordials
are afterwards unable to recover him.

But these events were still in the womb of futurity. As yet the Scottish Parliament held their
engagement with England consistent with justice, prudence, and piety, and their military undertaking
seemed to succeed to their very wish. The junction of the Scottish army with those of Fairfax
and Manchester, enabled the Parliamentary forces to besiege York, and to fight the desperate
action of Long-Marston Moor, in which Prince Rupert and the Marquis of Newcastle were defeated.
The Scottish auxiliaries, indeed, had less of the glory of this victory than their countrymen
could desire. David Leslie, with their cavalry, fought bravely, and to them, as well as to
Cromwell's brigade of Independents, the honour of the day belonged; but the old Earl of Leven,
the covenanting general, was driven out of the field by the impetuous charge of Prince Rupert,
and was thirty miles distant, in full flight towards Scotland, when he was overtaken by the
news that his party had gained a complete victory.

The absence of these auxiliary troops, upon this crusade for the establishment of Presbyterianism
in England, had considerably diminished the power of the Convention of Estates in Scotland,
and had given rise to those agitations among the anti-covenanters, which we have noticed at
the beginning of this chapter.

CHAPTER II.

     His mother could for him as cradle set
     Her husband's rusty iron corselet;
     Whose jangling sound could hush her babe to rest,
     That never plain'd of his uneasy nest;
     Then did he dream of dreary wars at hand,
     And woke, and fought, and won, ere he could stand.--HALL'S SATIRES

It was towards the close of a summer's evening, during the anxious period which we have commemorated,
that a young gentleman of quality, well mounted and armed, and accompanied by two servants,
one of whom led a sumpter horse, rode slowly up one of those steep passes, by which the Highlands
are accessible from the Lowlands of Perthshire. [The beautiful pass of Leny, near Callander,
in Monteith, would, in some respects, answer this description.] Their course had lain for some
time along the banks of a lake, whose deep waters reflected the crimson beams of the western
sun. The broken path which they pursued with some difficulty, was in some places shaded by
ancient birches and oak-trees, and in others overhung by fragments of huge rock. Elsewhere,
the hill, which formed the northern side of this beautiful sheet of water, arose in steep,
but less precipitous acclivity, and was arrayed in heath of the darkest purple. In the present
times, a scene so romantic would have been judged to possess the highest charms for the traveller;
but those who journey in days of doubt and dread, pay little attention to picturesque scenery.

The master kept, as often as the wood permitted, abreast of one or both of his domestics, and
seemed earnestly to converse with them, probably because the distinctions of rank are readily
set aside among those who are made to be sharers of common danger. There is a copy of the Magazine
in the Astor Library, New York. It is of interest as showing the impression made by Franklin
on his German auditors, although it is clear that Achenwall did not
report quite correctly.-- J. G. R.] The most complete work on the
British Colonies in North America is the Summary historical and political
by William Douglas, of which the second improved edition was published
in London, 1760, in two 8vo. volumes.

That doctor collected material
for many years and was in America, and gives valuable intelligence, especially
of the Colonies he visited, but his book has no system. Prof. Kalm has
much that is good in his travels in North America, and often cites
Franklin, but did not altogether understand what he said, and Franklin
never saw Kalm's book until he came across a German translation in
Hanover.

The east coast of North America, where the British Colonies lie, is generally colder than the countries
on the same stretch in Europe, nor has it been observed that owing to the decay of forests
and cultivation the climate is becoming noticeably milder. Almost the whole eastern coast of North America
is sandy, many little islands along the coast are sand banks, thrown up gradually by the sea.
The coast of Florida is sandy and unfruitful, but the interior is
good land.

The native Indians consist of many small nations, each with its own language, quite different
from that of their neighbors. They are all of one figure as if descended from a common ancestor,--
all brown in color, with straight black hair, eyes all of one color, and all beardless, and
they call Europeans the bearded nation. They live in the wilds, except a few that have been
gathered in villages and are partly civilized.

They live on plants and by hunting, without farms or cattle, chickens, horses etc. Before the arrival
of Europeans, their important plants were Turkish corn or maize; a sort of beans; tobacco. Maize
and Tobacco are found only in America, and were brought from the new world to the old. Maize and Beans
they cook and use bear fat in place of butter as dressing, but no salt. Smoking tobacco is an old
custom, especially at their national gatherings. These three plants they look on as a special
gift of heaven. According to an old tradition, an American found a handsome young woman sitting on
a hill,-- who in acknowledging a deep bow, said she came from above
and at the end of a year would come again to the same hill.

She was there again at that time, on her right hand Maize, on her left Beans, and on her lap
Tobacco, and these three she left as a present for the American. Before Europeans brought them,
there were no other grain or vegetables known than maize and beans, but all like the newcomers
have increased wonderfully. The Spanish historian de Solis is altogether wrong in saying that Mexico
at the time of the invasion, was a populous and mighty state. The Mexicans were savages, without
art or knowledge, and how could they form a great state? They had neither farming nor cattle and
could not find food for a large population nor had they any means of transportation. The weapons of
the savages in North America are bows and arrows, and they shoot with the teeth of wild animals.
They recognize some of the principles of natural law and observe
them even with their enemies.

They scalp usually only the dead,-- then they cut it off with a sharp weapon and keep it as a sign
of victory. Sometimes the victim comes to life,-- some such are in Pennsylvania, for scalping is not
necessarily mortal. They fight on foot, for they have no horses. The savages living in western
Pennsylvania were called by the French Iroquois. The English call them the Five Nations or the
Confederate Indians,-- they are united and were so long before the English settled. The Mohawks
first united with another nation and others joined later. Now there are seven altogether so united.
They have their regular stated meetings and their great council considers the general good.
The members are known only by their different languages. They are called subjects of the King,
but they are not subject to British laws, and pay no taxes, but the
Colonists give them a tribute of presents.

Their number does not increase. Those living near the Europeans steadily diminish in numbers and strength.
Their two sexes are of a cold nature,-- the mothers live alone at and after the birth of children
and during the years they suckle them,-- often (owing to the absence of soft food) until their
young can eat meat. Small pox and rum have played sad havoc among them. The English settlements in North
America have grown much more slowly than those in the West Indies,
where they came about 1640, and in twenty years had flourishing Colonies,
such as Barbadoes.

In North America the Colonists came sixty years before, but at the end of the 17th Century were small
in number and in exports. This is due to the rich production of the
Sugar Islands, the absence of Indians, and the contraband trade with
Spain.

The North American Colonies have in the 18th Century greatly increased
in population and wealth, far beyond the West India Islands. Franklin
in a book published in 1751 showed that the native born foreigners
double every 25 years, in addition is the steady emigration, and some
Colonies thus double their population in 18, some in 16, and some
in 14 years.

This will go on as long as there is plenty of farm land, and this increases largely with the
acquisition of Canada and Louisiana.

In 1750 there were a million, Douglas in his book estimated that
in 1760 there were 1,051,000, besides blacks and soldiers,-- on that basis in
1775 there will be 2 millions, and at the close of the 18th Century,
4 millions.

To attract foreigners, an Act of Parliament granted English citizenship
to every Protestant after seven years'residence, a right that in England
can only be obtained with great expense and trouble by a special Act
of Parliament.

The Certificate of the Provincial authorities costs only a few shillings and is good through all England.
Near the coast and some miles beyond, all the Middle Colonies are settled, and new improvements are extending
deeper in the interior. In Pennsylvania, where the Penn family own all the land, any one who
wants to improve the land, chooses a piece, pays the landlord for 100 acres 10 Pound Sterling
local money, and binds himself to pay an annual rent of half a penny
for each acre,-- he then becomes absolute owner, and the little ground
rent can never be increased.

Sometimes the hunter builds a wooden hut, and the nearest neighbors in the wilderness help cut the
timber, build the log hut, fill the crevices with mud, put on the
roof and put in windows and doors, and in return the owner pays them
with a gallon of brandy, and by a like good service in turn.

Then he lays out his garden and pasture and fields, cuts out the underbrush, tops the big trees and
strips the bark, so that he can sow and reap, the trees die and hurt neither land nor crops.
Many hunters have thus settled the wilderness,-- they are soon followed by poor Scotch or
Irish who are looking for homes,-- these they find in this half improved condition,-- they
buy from the hunters, get a patent from the Proprietors, paying the usual charge. The hunter
moves off into the wilderness and goes to work again. The Scotch or Irishman completes the half finished
task, builds a better house of sawed timber, uses the old log hut for a stable, later builds a house of
brick and his timber house is a good barn. Scotch and Irish often sell to the Germans, of whom from
90 to 100,000 live in Pennsylvania, and prefer to put all their earnings
into land and improvements.

The Scotch or Irish are satisfied with a fair profit, put the capital into another farm, leaving
the Germans owners of the old farms.

In Pennsylvania there is no law to prevent cutting up a farm into very small holdings nor to forbid
the purchase of very large bodies of land. There is no danger from either course, for there is
land enough for rich and poor, and the former prefer the larger
profits from trade to the small return from land. In New England, unlike
Pennsylvania, a good deal of land is let to farmers, for there are many
rich owners of large estates,-- this is so too in the Carolinas,
and in other Colonies where owners of 10 or 20 or more thousands of
acres bring settlers at their own expense to improve their land.

Kalm mentions similar cases in New York. When an owner of land dies intestate, and there are many
children to inherit the father's farm, it is generally taken by the
eldest son, and the younger children get in money their share of its
appraised value,-- the eldest son gets two shares, the other children
only one apiece.

The father of a large family takes from the Proprietary a large tract of land, which on his death
can be divided among all his children. In New England improvement of
the land is made in a more regular way than in Pennsylvania,-- whole
towns are laid out, and as soon as sixty families agree to build a
church and support a Minister and a Schoolmaster, the Provincial government
gives them the required privilege, carrying with it the right to elect
two deputies to the Legislature, from the grant of 6 English square
miles.

Then the town or village is laid out in a square, with the church in the centre. The land is divided
and each works his own, leaving however the forest in common, and with the privilege of laying
out another village in time. In this way new settlements grow in New England in regular order
and succession,-- every new village touching on an old one, and all steadily increasing in wealth
and numbers. Nothing of this kind is done in Pennsylvania, where the Proprietor wants only to
sell land and as much as any one wants and wherever he likes.

The mistake of this was shown in the Indian wars. On the border were scattered houses and farms,
which could not help one another, and they were attacked singly, plundered and destroyed, and the
ruined owners with their families took refuge with the older settlements,
which became burthened with their care.

Blacks are found in Virginia, Maryland and the two Carolinas in large numbers, but very few in Pennsylvania
and further north. In Pennsylvania, on principle they were prevented coming as much as possible,
partly because there was no such hard work as they were fitted for in raising tobacco, rice
and indigo. In Pennsylvania, every negro must pay a tax of 10 pounds sterling and this the
master who brings him must pay. These negroes are protected by law
in all the Colonies, as much as free men. A Colonist, even if he
is the owner, who kills a blackman, is instantly sentenced to death,--
if he overworks or ill treats his slave, the latter can complain
to the judge.

Then in their own interest the masters are obliged not to give their
slaves excessive tasks or insufficient food, for their death is a
loss.

The negro slaves have all the general rights of humanity except freedom and property, neither of
which they possess. The free in the Colonies are of two kinds, the one servant and maid, bound
for a half or a whole year, and the term ends by mutual agreement. The other class consists of poor
Scotch, Irish and Germans, who to get to America come without paying their passage, and the ship
captain finds them a master who pays it and thus secures their service for food and lodging and clothing,
without pay, but only for a term of years, never for life. Sometimes a father sells the services
of his children to a master, who must teach them some useful trade, farming, carpentering, cooking.
This lasts until majority,-- with boys at 21, with girls at 18, and in some cases for 8 years, but
not longer. Then the children are by law free, and their master is bound to give them the needful
articles for housekeeping, a cow, farming implements, tools etc. In this way all poor children have
the hope of establishing themselves on their majority in freedom. The poor fathers find their comfort
in this expectation, are relieved of the care of their children in the interval, and know that
they are learning something useful and will start out in life with money in hand without having
to pay anything to the master. The masters in turn are satisfied with the cheap service. This law
has been introduced to cure the old need of servants and apprentices.

There is a special class of servants in the Colonies, between peasants and slaves, those transported
from Great Britain for certain crimes for from 7 to 14 years. It is
an exile from Great Britain under penalty of prison in case of return.
Such an offender is sold by the Courts to a Ship's Captain who takes
him to the Colonies and sells him as a slave for a limited period.

That over he is free. Formerly such servants were welcomed on account of the demand for laborers,
but now they are no longer needed in the populous Colonies, they
remain worthless and are soon sent to prison for fresh offences.

The constitutions of the British Colonies differ according to the
original grants, 1st Royal, 2nd Proprietary, 3rd Charter Governments,
and the British Parliamentary Statutes call them Plantations under
Proprietors, under Charters, under his majesty's immediate commission,
Stat.

6 Anne, cap. 30, sec. 2. The 1st class are arranged strictly according to the British Constitution,
with a Governor, who represents the King, and two legislative branches, 1st the Council, called
the Royal Council, 2nd Representatives of towns or counties, belonging to one Colony, these two are
like the two houses of the British Parliament, and the Council is called the Upper House, and
the body of representatives of the people the Lower House. In these three branches are vested the
law making powers of the Colony, but subject to the Crown, hence united they are called the Assembly,
although that is popularly limited to the two Houses and often to
the Lower or popular House.

The King appoints the Governor and recalls him at pleasure. The Council
also consists of royal officials dependent on the King as to terms
and nature of appointment, but generally selected from the principal
persons of the Colony, legal, financial and military officers.

Governor and Councillors have fixed salaries and certain fees, the Governor a large fixed salary, provided
in advance by the Colonies, thus the Governor of Barbadoes has£
2000, the Governor of Virginia£ 1000. The popular representatives are
elected annually and receive a fixed per diem allowance.

They look after the rights and privileges of the people, just as do
the Council and the Governor after those of the Crown.

Every measure approved by the three bodies becomes a law, but only provisionally, for it must
be sent to the King for approval, but if not vetoed within three
years, it is final.

This is the usual rule for Colonial governments, (with some local exceptions) in all the West
India Islands, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, both Carolinas, New Georgia, New Scotland, New
Hampshire, and I believe Quebec, East and West Florida, and the newly acquired Caribbean Islands,
and the English consider it the best way of securing the rights of the Mother Country, that is,
Great Britain. The 2nd class is that of hereditary Proprietors, such as those of Pennsylvania and
Maryland. In the former the English family of Penn, in the latter the Irish Lords Baltimore are
the hereditary Proprietors and Governors, as over lords they draw
a certain income from all the Colonists in proportion to their land,
and all improved land is sold at a fixed price.

Both tax and price are low, but the growth of both Colonies has made both families rich. Lord Baltimore
has the right of patron of all churches in Maryland.

As hereditary Proprietors both appoint their Lieutenant Governors,
who are confirmed by the King, and reside in the Provinces.

In both Colonies there are Assemblies,-- that in Maryland consists of the Council and the House
of Commons, and subject to the right of the Proprietor, has the same jurisdiction as that of
any other Colony. The third kind of government is the Chartered or Free government. This is nearest
a Democracy, and is less dependent on the Crown.

This form of constitution exists in the three Colonies of New England, completely in Connecticut
and Rhode Island,-- in Massachusetts with certain restrictions. The two
first named Colonies have the right to elect all their own officers,
including the Governor and Council, and to make all needful laws
without royal approval, nor can the decisions of their Courts be appealed
from.

In Rhode Island even the ministers of the Churches can be removed at the end of a year, so that they
hold office only for one year's salary. Massachusetts Bay formerly had these popular rights, but
owing to abuses their former privileges and freedom were repealed by the King's Bench under Charles
the Second, and only partly restored by a new Charter from William the Third. Since then the
King appoints the Governor and the chief law and treasury and all military officers. The representatives
have the right to elect Councillors, but subject to a negative veto of the Governor. This election in Massachusetts
as well as in Connecticut and Rhode Island, is made by both Houses, annually, because the members
of the Council hold office only for a year. Laws passed by the Assembly must have royal approval, and
in cases involving over£ 300, there is an appeal to the Privy Council in London. The Governor
of Massachusetts has no fixed salary, but it is fixed every year by the Assembly. (Kalm says this
is so in New York also.) He must therefore be popular with the Assembly or the King will replace
him by another likely to be so. This uncertain tenure is unpopular in
Europe because it affects unfavorably the interests of the Colony
and makes that of Great Britain dependent on the Colony.

The Colonists answer that a fixed salary would enable the Governor to live abroad and send only
a Lieutenant Governor as substitute. Pennsylvania has its own Constitution.
Penn as Proprietor draws a revenue of a half penny sterling local
currency for every acre of improved land, and every purchaser of wild
land can buy a hundred acres for£ 10 and the usual quit rent.

As Proprietor he sends a Deputy, whom he pays, and appoints all Judges, but ministers are chosen
by their own congregations in every County. The meeting of the Pennsylvania Legislature consists
of only one House, (because there is no Council) made up of representatives of the various
Counties. These are elected annually October 1, each County holding its own meetings for the purpose,--
every inhabitant worth£ 50, resident for 12 years, has a vote,-- these meetings elect 8 Deputies
to the Assembly,-- every elector is eligible, but mostly well to do citizens are elected. The County gives
its representatives six shillings a day, but the Deputies have to spend more out of their own
pockets. There is no bribery. Every voter deposits a written ballot, and the persons who have the highest
number are declared elected. The purchase of votes would be very unsafe, as the voter could always write
another name on his ballot. This House with the Lieutenant Governor is the law making power.
The Governor however depends on the Assembly for his salary, as he has no fixed allowance, which
is voted only from year to year, and if he displeases the Assembly, it votes him no salary for the next
year. The Assembly has been for six years on bad terms with the Proprietor and has made no grant for the
Governor. The Assembly wants the Proprietor to pay tax on his property especially towards the extraordinary
war expenses.

 Being discouraged by this response, I applied
to a Dutch pastor of the reformed church, who told me, he thought I might lawfully go to mass,
in respect that the prophet permitted Naaman, a mighty man of valour, and an honourable cavalier
of Syria, to follow his master into the house of Rimmon, a false god, or idol, to whom he had
vowed service, and to bow down when the king was leaning upon his hand. But neither was this
answer satisfactory to me, both because there was an unco difference between an anointed King
of Syria and our Spanish colonel, whom I could have blown away like the peeling of an ingan,
and chiefly because I could not find the thing was required of me by any of the articles of
war; neither was I proffered any consideration, either in perquisite or pay, for the wrong
I might thereby do to my conscience."

"So you again changed your service?" said Lord Menteith.

"In troth did I, my lord; and after trying for a short while two or three other powers, I even
took on for a time with their High Mightinesses the States of Holland."

"And how did their service jump with your humour?" again demanded his companion.

"O! my lord," said the soldier, in a sort of enthusiasm, "their behaviour on pay-day might
be a pattern to all Europe--no borrowings, no lendings, no offsets no arrears--all balanced
and paid like a banker's book. The quarters, too, are excellent, and the allowances unchallengeable;
but then, sir, they are a preceese, scrupulous people, and will allow nothing for peccadilloes.
So that if a boor complains of a broken head, or a beer-seller of a broken can, or a daft wench
does but squeak loud enough to be heard above her breath, a soldier of honour shall be dragged,
not before his own court-martial, who can best judge of and punish his demerits, but before
a base mechanical burgo-master, who shall menace him with the rasp-house, the cord, and what
not, as if he were one of their own mean, amphibious, twenty-breeched boors. It appeared fertile
and more elevated than the coast to the eastward, and to possess several good harbours, particularly
Apsley Strait, besides several bays on its north coast; and from the appearance of the land on
its east side, and the extent and abrupt shape of the hills, it is probable that there may
be a port there also.

BRENTON BAY is the mouth of a small inlet, which may probably prove to be a fresh-water stream;
and the bottom of LETHBRIDGE BAY appeared likely to yield one also. The hills and coast are
wooded to the brink of the cliffs and sandy beaches that vary the northern shores of Melville
Island.

The most unproductive part appeared to be the narrow strip that extends
towards Cape Van Diemen.

On either side of the point, near Karslake Island, is a bay, and
at the bottom of each there is an opening in the land, like those
of Brenton and Lethbridge Bays.

     
     
     The western trend of CAPE VAN DIEMEN is in
     latitude 11 degrees 8 minutes 15 seconds, and longitude 130 degrees
20 minutes 30 seconds.

The coast to the south-east of the cape is formed by a range of cliffs, extending uninterruptedly
for seven miles, of a most remarkable white appearance, whiter even than the usual colour
of the pipe-clay cliffs to the eastward. Cape Van Diemen is a low sandy point, with a shoal spit
projecting from it for four miles, within half a mile of the extremity of which we had no bottom
with ten fathoms: from this a very considerable shoal (MERMAID'S SHOAL) extends to the westward
and south-westward for seventeen miles; and, curving round to PIPER'S
HEAD, forms the northern limit of the entrance to Apsley Strait: its
western edge is rather steep; we coasted along it, and had overfalls
between ten and four fathoms near its edge.

It is not only possible, but very likely, that there are channels through it, but the most direct
channel is round its south side, across the bar, on which there is (at low water) five fathoms.
To sail into APSLEY STRAIT by this channel, if coming from the westward, steer in on the parallel
of 11 degrees 15 minutes, until the northern part of Bathurst Island is seen: when the western
trend of the island bears South, you will be abreast of the west extremity of the shoal off Cape
Van Diemen.

Steering on, you will see Piper's Head, a cliffy point, forming the north entrance to the strait,
which must be kept upon the bearing of East by North, until the low, sandy, south point of the
strait's entrance* is in a line with the summit of LUXMOORE HEAD, a remarkable flat-topped
hill on the eastern side of the strait, bearing South 59 degrees East. Then steer East by South,
keeping the lead going, and hauling to the north if the soundings are less than seven fathoms,
until the strait is opened bearing South-East by South, when you may haul in for Luxmoore
Head, and anchor at will.
(* Footnote. Fight for the bishops, says a priest, with his gown and
rochet--Stand stout for the Kirk, cries a minister, in a Geneva cap and band.--Good watchwords
all--excellent watchwords. Whilk cause is the best I cannot say. But sure am I, that I have
fought knee-deep in blood many a day for one that was ten degrees worse than the worst of them
all."

"And pray, Captain Dalgetty," said his lordship, "since the pretensions of both parties seem
to you so equal, will you please to inform us by what circumstances your preference will be
determined?"

"Simply upon two considerations, my lord," answered the soldier. "Being, first, on which side
my services would be in most honourable request;--And, secondly, whilk is a corollary of the
first, by whilk party they are likely to be most gratefully requited. And, to deal plainly
with you, my lord, my opinion at present doth on both points rather incline to the side of
the Parliament."

"Your reasons, if you please," said Lord Menteith, "and perhaps I may be able to meet them
with some others which are more powerful."

"Sir, I shall be amenable to reason," said Captain Dalgetty, "supposing it addresses itself
to my honour and my interest. Well, then, my lord, here is a sort of Highland host assembled,
or expected to assemble, in these wild hills, in the King's behalf. Now, sir, you know the
nature of our Highlanders. I will not deny them to be a people stout in body and valiant in
heart, and courageous enough in their own wild way of fighting, which is as remote from the
usages and discipline of war as ever was that of the ancient Scythians, or of the salvage Indians
of America that now is, They havena sae mickle as a German whistle, or a drum, to beat a march,
an alarm, a charge, a retreat, a reveille, or the tattoo, or any other point of war; and their
damnable skirlin' pipes, whilk they themselves pretend to understand, are unintelligible to
the ears of any cavaliero accustomed to civilised warfare. So that, were I undertaking to discipline
such a breechless mob, it were impossible for me to be understood; and if I were understood,
judge ye, my lord, what chance I had of being obeyed among a band of half salvages, who are
accustomed to pay to their own lairds and chiefs, allenarly, that respect and obedience whilk
ought to be paid to commissionate officers. If I were teaching them to form battalia by extracting
the square root, that is, by forming your square battalion of equal number of men of rank and
file, corresponding to the square root of the full number present, what return could I expect
for communicating this golden secret of military tactic, except it may be a dirk in my wame,
on placing some M'Alister More M'Shemei or Capperfae, in the flank or rear, when he claimed
to be in the van?--Truly, well saith holy writ, 'if ye cast pearls before swine, they will
turn again and rend ye.'"

"I believe, Anderson," said Lord Menteith, looking back to one of his servants, for both were
close behind him, "you can assure this gentleman, we shall have more occasion for experienced
officers, and be more disposed to profit by their instructions, than he seems to be aware of."

"With your honour's permission," said Anderson, respectfully raising his cap, "when we are
joined by the Irish infantry, who are expected, and who should be landed in the West Highlands
before now, we shall have need of good soldiers to discipline our levies."

"And I should like well--very well, to be employed in such service," said Dalgetty; "the Irish
are pretty fellows--very pretty fellows--I desire to see none better in the field. I once saw
a brigade of Irish, at the taking of Frankfort upon the Oder, stand to it with sword and pike
until they beat off the blue and yellow Swedish brigades, esteemed as stout as any that fought
under the immortal Gustavus. And although stout Hepburn, valiant Lumsdale, courageous Monroe,
with myself and other cavaliers, made entry elsewhere at point of pike, yet, had we all met
with such opposition, we had returned with great loss and little profit. Wherefore these valiant
Irishes, being all put to the sword, as is usual in such cases, did nevertheless gain immortal
praise and honour; so that, for their sakes, I have always loved and honoured those of that
nation next to my own country of Scotland." 

We fired at several, but so sudden were their motions that they generally escaped; two or three only
were procured, which appeared from their lying on the mud in an inactive
state to have been asleep; they are furnished with very strong pectoral
and ventral fins with which and with the anal fin, when required,
they make a hole, into which they drop.

When sporting on the mud, the pectoral fins are used like legs, upon which they move very quickly;
but nothing can exceed the instantaneous movement by which they disappear. Those that were shot
were taken on board, but on account of the extreme heat of the weather they had become so putrefied
as to be totally unfit for preservation.

July 30.

The next day, the 30th, was spent in examining some bights in the narrow part of the channel near
Gap Island, so named from a remarkable division in its centre, through which the high-tide flows,
and gives it the appearance of being two islands. It was on this occasion that we explored
Halfway Bay, where we were fortunate in finding good anchorage, and in which we also discovered
a strait, that on a subsequent examination was found to communicate with Munster Water, and
to insulate the land that forms the north-west shore of the bay:
this island was called after the late Right Honourable Charles Greville,
whose name has also been given to a family of plants (grevillea) that
bears a prominent rank in the botany of this country.

The strait, in which the tide was running at the rate of six or seven knots, was not more than
one hundred and fifty yards wide; but in one part it was contracted to a much narrower compass,
by a bed of rocks that nearly extended across the strait, and which must originally have communicated
with the opposite shore.

We landed under the flat-topped hill, at the south end of Greville Island, among the mangroves
which skirt the shore, and walked a few hundred yards round the point, to examine the course of
the strait; but the way was so rugged, and we had so little time to spare, that we soon re-embarked
and returned into Halfway Bay. The geological character of the island is a red-coloured, coarse-granular,
siliceous sandstone, disposed in horizontal strata, and intersected by veins of crystallised quartz.
The surface is covered by a shallow, reddish-coloured soil, producing a variety of shrubs and
plants.

After this we crossed the river, and examined the two bays opposite
to Gap Island, but found them so shoal and overrun with mangroves
that no landing could be effected in any part.

In both bays there is anchorage between the heads; but all the inner
part is very shoal, and perhaps at low water there is not more than
nine feet water within the heads.

In the mid-stream of the river the bottom is deep, and is formed
entirely of shells over which, on account of its being very narrow,
the tide runs with great strength; and from the irregularity of the
bottom forms numerous eddies and whirlpools, in which a boat is quite
unmanageable.

During our absence, Mr. Bedwell examined our former watering-place, at the back of St. Andrew's
Island, and on his return landed upon the sandy beach of a bay on
the south-west side of the basin, but was unsuccessful in his search
for water at both places.

The sea breeze freshened towards sunset, and fanned up the fires that had been burning for the
last three days in several places upon the low land, and on the sides of the hills to the
westward of Mount Trafalgar; before night they had all joined, and, spreading over the tops of
the hills for a space of three miles, produced a singularly grand
and magnificent effect.

     
     1821. August 1.
     
     At half past five o'clock the next
     morning we were under sail but, the breeze
     being light, had only time to reach
     the anchorage under Greville Island in
     Halfway Bay, before the tide turned against us.

It was purposed to remain only during the flood; but, on examination, the place was found
to be so well adapted for the purpose of procuring some lunar distances with the sun, to correspond
with those taken last year at Careening Bay, that we determined upon seizing the opportunity;
and as wood was abundant on the island and growing close to the shores,
a party was formed to complete our holds with fuel, whilst Mr. Roe
assisted me in taking observations upon a convenient station on the
north point of the bay within Lammas Island, a small rocky islet covered
with shrubs, and separated from the easternmost point of Greville
Island by a very shoal and rocky channel.

During these occupations we examined Munster Water: on our way to it we landed on the reef off the
east end of the Midway Isles, which was found to be more extensive than had been suspected,
and to embrace the group of small rocks, which at high-water only
just show their summits above the water; at high-tide there is at
least fifteen feet water over it, but being low-water when we landed,
the reef was dry.

Upon it we found several varieties of coral, particularly Explanaria mesenterina, Lam.; Caryophylla
fastigata, Lam.; and Porites subdigitata, Lam.: the only shell that we observed upon the reef was
a Delphinula laciniata, Lam. (Turbo delphinus, Linn.). After obtaining bearings from its extremity,
as also from the summit of the outer dry rock, we landed upon a small verdant-looking grassy mound,
the northernmost islet of the group; but we found the verdure of its appearance was caused only by
the abundance of the spinifex, through which we had, as usual, much difficulty in travelling.
After procuring some bearings from its summit we re-embarked and pulled up Munster Water, supposing
that it was connected with the strait at the back of Greville Island;
but as the tide then flowing was running in a contrary direction to
what was expected from the hypothesis we had formed, we began to suspect
some other communication with the sea, and in this we were not deceived;
for a narrow but a very deep strait opened suddenly to our view, at
the bottom of the Water, through which some of the islands in the
offing were recognised.

In pulling through we had kept close to the south shore, that we might not miss the communication
with Hanover Bay, but notwithstanding all our care we passed by without noticing it, on account
of the deceptious appearance of the land; indeed the strait which
we discovered leading to sea was not seen until we were within two
hundred yards of it, and would also have escaped our observation had
not the channel been so direct that the sea horizon was exposed to
our view.

At the bottom of this arm are two deep bays which were partially but sufficiently examined.
In most parts of Munster Water there is good anchorage amongst several small rocky islands,
on one of which we landed, and climbed its summit, but saw nothing to repay us for the trouble or the
danger of the ascent: the surface was composed entirely of loose blocks of sandstone, which,
when trod upon, would crumble away or roll down the nearly perpendicular face of the rock;
and it was only by grasping the branches of the acacias and other trees that were firmly rooted
in the interstices of the less-decomposed rocks that we were saved from being precipitated with
them. On our return we passed through the channel on the west side
of the Midway Isles which we found to be very deep and the stream
very strong.

August 4.

The next day we pulled through the strait that insulates Greville Island, and found that it communicated
with Munster Water at a part where we had yesterday concluded it likely to exist, and had in consequence
steered towards it; but as we proceeded the probability became less and less, and we gave up the
search when we were within three hundred yards of being actually
in it.

We then pulled up Munster Water and afterwards through the strait to sea; and, landing on some
dry rocks on a reef which projects off the west head of the strait,
found that we were at the entrance of the bight, which was last year
named Hanover Bay: after taking a set of bearings, we re-embarked
and proceeded to the bottom of the bay which terminated in a shoal
basin.

On our return we entered an opening in the rocky cliff which bore the appearance of being the outlet
of a torrent stream; being low-water, there was not in many parts sufficient depth to float
the boat; but after pulling up for half a mile, a muddy channel was found, which, at the end
of another half mile, was terminated by a bed of rocks over which the tide flows at high-water.
The ravine is formed by steep precipitous rocks which are at least two hundred and fifty feet
high; it appeared to extend to a considerable distance, and as the farther progress of the
boat was prevented by the stones and want of water, Bundell and two of the boat's crew were despatched
to examine a place farther on, where, from the green appearance of the trees, it was thought not unlikely
that there might be a fresh stream. In this they were not disappointed, for after much delay
and trouble, from the difficulty of passing over the rocks, they returned with two baricas full
of fresh water, which they found in holes of considerable size.

In pulling up the river, an alligator was seen crawling slowly over the mud banks, but took
to the water before we came near it and did not afterwards reappear. Many kangaroo-rats and
small kangaroos were seen skipping about the rocks, but they were very shy, and fled the moment
they saw us.

Hanover Bay thus proving to afford good anchorage and an opportunity
of increasing our stock of water, as well as presenting a sandy beach
on which we could haul the seine, it was determined that we should
visit it as soon as the brig could be moved out of Prince Regent's
River.

On our return, which was over the same ground as we had passed in
the morning, we landed near two or three gullies on the inner side
of the island, which forms the eastern boundary of Munster Water,
but were unsuccessful in all our searches after fresh water.

August 6.

At daylight on the 6th we got underweigh to a light air of wind from the southward, to leave
Prince Regent's River; but notwithstanding the vessel was under all sail she was very nearly
thrown upon Lammas Island by the tide, which was setting with great strength through the shoal
passage between it and Sight Point: as we passed without it we were not more than five yards
from the rocks.

The wind then fell to a dead calm and the brig was perfectly immovable in the water; but, drifted by
the tide and whirled round by the eddies, we were fast approaching the body of the largest Midway
Island, with a very great uncertainty on which side of it the tide would drift us: when we
were about three hundred yards from the island the direction of the stream changed and carried
us round its south-east side, at about two hundred yards from the
shore, but close to the low rocks off its east end, on which we landed
two days since.

We were under great anxiety for fear of being driven over the reef, on which there could not have
been sufficient water to have floated us; but our fears of that danger
were soon over for the tide swept us rapidly round it.

At this moment a light air sprang up which lasted only five minutes, but it was sufficient to carry
us past the junction of the Rothsay and Munster Waters with the main
stream.

The vessel was at times unmanageable from the violent whirlpools through which we passed, and
was more than once whirled completely round upon her keel; but our former experience of a similar
event prepared us to expect it, and the yards were as quickly braced
round.

Having passed all the dangers, the ebb-tide very soon carried us out
of the river into Hanover Bay.

In passing the easternmost of the outer isles, the shrill voices of natives were heard calling
to us, and Bundell returned their shout, but it was some time before we could discern them on
account of the very rugged nature of the island: at last three Indians were observed standing
upon the rocks near the summit of the island but, as the tide was running out with great strength,
we were soon out of hearing.

Soon after one o'clock the brig was anchored at about half a mile off the sandy beach in Hanover Bay,
in eight fathoms (half flood) muddy bottom. The boats were immediately hoisted out and sent
up the river, but the tide was ebbing and the difficulty of filling
the casks so great that, after great labour, we only procured a puncheon
of water.

The launch was moored without the rocky bed of the river, while the jolly-boat conveyed the baricas
to her as they were filled, but even the latter could not get within
three hundred yards of the water, so that the people had to carry
the baricas over the rugged bed of the river for that distance, which
made the work laborious and slow; still however it was much less distressing
than the fatigue of watering from the cascade in Prince Regent's
River.

At night a successful haul of the seine supplied our people with abundance
of fish, among which were mullets weighing from three to five pounds;
cavallos, whitings, silver fish, breams, and two species of guard-fish.

August 7.

While our people were employed the next morning in washing the decks,
they heard at a distance the voices of natives; at eight o'clock they
were again heard and at ten o'clock they were close by; shortly afterwards
three, of whom one was a woman, were seen standing on the rocks waving
their arms.

Being curious to communicate with the inhabitants of this part of the coast, since we had not
seen any between this and Vansittart Bay, a party consisting of the surgeon, Mr. Bedwell,
Mr. Baskerville, and myself, went on shore to the place where the natives were seated waiting
for us.

Bundell, who generally accompanied us on these occasions divested
of his clothes, stood up in the bow of the boat, and, as we approached
the shore, made signs of friendship, which the natives returned, and
appeared quite unconcerned at our approach. On landing we climbed the rocks
on which the two men were standing, when we found that the woman
had walked away: upon our approach they retired a few paces and evidently
eyed us in a distrustful manner; but, as they had dropped their spears,
and repeated the sign of peace that we had made to them, we did not
hesitate to walk towards them unarmed, desiring the boat's crew to
be prepared with the muskets, if called.

When we joined them they had their spears poised ready to throw, but on our presenting them with
some of the fish that we had caught the preceding evening they dropped their spears and immediately
returned us something in exchange; one gave a belt, made of opossum fur, to Bundell; and the
other, the tallest of the two, gave me a club that he carried in
his hand, a short stick about eighteen inches long, pointed at both ends.
This exchange of presents appeared to establish a mutual confidence between
us, and, to strengthen it, I presented my friend with a clasped knife,
after showing him its use, the possession of which appeared to give
him great pleasure.

By this time Mr. Montgomery and Mr. Bedwell joined us; the latter gentleman was unarmed, but the
former had a pistol concealed under his coat and carried a fish which he held out for them to take;
but, as they would not approach us nearer than two or three yards, he threw it towards them, when the
shortest native picked it up. Upon this accession to our numbers they began to talk to each other,
and at the same time picked up their spears; but as the latter appeared only to be a cautionary
movement we did not anticipate their mischievous intentions. I then,
with a view to amuse them, made signs to my friend for the knife,
which he put into my hands without showing the least reluctance,
upon which he was again instructed how to open and shut it; but as
this, instead of pacifying, only served to increase their anger, the
knife was thrown at his feet, which he instantly picked up, and then
both retired a few paces in a very suspicious manner.

We were at this time about three or four yards from the natives,
who were talking to each other in a most animated way, and evidently
intent upon some object; and, as it appeared probable that, if we remained
any longer, a rupture would ensue, it was proposed that our party should
retire to the boat, under the idea that they would follow us down;
no sooner, however, had we waved to them our farewell, and turned
our backs to descend the rocks, than they unexpectedly, and in the
most treacherous manner, threw their spears; one of which, striking
a rock, broke and fell harmless to the ground, but the other, which
was thrown by the tallest man, wounded Mr. Montgomery in the back;
the natives then, without waiting to throw their second spears, made
off, closely pursued by Bundell, who had armed himself with the broken
spear; but they were out of sight in a moment, and, by the time that
the muskets were brought to our assistance, were doubtless out of
gun-shot.

A pursuit was, however, commenced, but our progress was so much impeded by the rugged and rocky
nature of the ground and by the abundance and intricate growth of the
shrubs and trees that we very soon desisted, and returned to the
boat, to which Mr. Montgomery had been in the meantime carried, complaining
of great weakness from loss of blood.

Upon examining Mr. Montgomery's wound, which unfortunately was in such a part of his body that he could
not himself inspect it, it appeared that the spear had penetrated about three inches; and, from
the quantity of extravasated blood, great fears were entertained that he had received a very serious
internal injury. The wound, from which he was suffering very great pain, was dressed according to
his instructions, but it was several days before he considered himself
out of danger.

August 8. The next morning at eleven o'clock a native was seen on a float, or catamaran, paddling
round the west point of the strait, and another man, a woman, and a child, were observed on
the rocks, who, in less than a quarter of an hour, came down to the spot where we met them yesterday,
and began to wave and call to us. An opportunity now offered of punishing these wretches for
their treacherous conduct, and of disappointing them in their present plans, for they were evidently
intent upon some mischief. Mr. Bedwell was therefore despatched to secure their catamaran, which was
hauled up on a sandy beach near the outer point, whilst another boat was
sent towards the natives: when the latter arrived near the shore,
they were sitting on the rock and inviting us to land; but it was
necessary to convince them that we were not so defenceless as they
imagined, and, as soon as we were sufficiently near, several muskets were
fired over their heads: one of them fell down behind a rock, but
the other made off.

The native who had fallen was wounded in the shoulder, and was recognised to be the man that speared
Mr. Montgomery; he made several attempts to get away, but every time
his head appeared above the rock which concealed him from us, a pistol
or a musket was fired to prevent his escape; at last, however, he sprang up,
and, leaping upon the rock with a violent effort, was instantaneously
out of sight.

As soon as he was gone we pulled round to the sandy bay where the natives had landed and overtook
Mr. Bedwell, who was passing by the place. Upon the beach we found two catamarans, or floats,
on each of which a large bundle of spears was tied with ligatures of bark; and on searching about
the grass we soon found and secured all their riches, consisting of water-baskets, tomahawks, spears,
throwing-sticks, fire-sticks, fishing-lines, and thirty-six spears; some of the latter were
of large size, and very roughly made, and one was headed with a piece
of stone curiously pointed and worked.

This last spear is propelled by a throwing-stick, which was also
found lying by it.

After launching the catamarans and securing everything found upon them, they were towed round
by the boats to where we had fired upon the natives, whilst a party
walked over land to examine the place. On the way several spears were
discovered placed ready for use on their retreat to the beach, where,
from the quantity collected, they evidently intended to make a stand;
supposing no doubt from our appearance yesterday that we were defenceless,
and would therefore fall an easy prey.

On reaching the rock, behind which the native fell, it was found covered with blood; and Bundell, who probably
did the deed, said the wound was on his shoulder. We traced their retreat by the blood for half
a mile to the border of a mangrove inlet, which they had evidently crossed, for the marks of their
feet were perceived imprinted in the mud. We then gave up the pursuit, and went on board. Upon examining
the baskets, among other things a piece of iron hoop was found fixed in a wooden handle, which it
seemed they had used for the purpose of digging up roots. This hoop
must have been left by us last year at Careening Bay. But what chiefly
attracted our attention was a small bundle of bark, tied up with
more than usual care; upon opening it we found it contained several
spear-heads, most ingeniously and curiously made of stone; they were
about six inches in length, and were terminated by a very sharp point;
both edges were serrated in a most surprising way; the serratures
were evidently made by a sharp stroke with some instrument, but it
was effected without leaving the least mark of the blow: the stone
was covered with red pigment, and appeared to be a flinty slate. The former had scarcely
reached a sort of withdrawing apartment ere they were joined by the lord of the mansion, Angus
M'Aulay by name, and his English guests. Great joy was expressed by all parties, for Lord Menteith
and the English gentlemen were well known to each other; and on Lord Menteith's introduction,
Captain Dalgetty was well received by the Laird. But after the first burst of hospitable congratulation
was over, Lord Menteith could observe that there was a shade of sadness on the brow of his
Highland friend.

"You must have heard," said Sir Christopher Hall, "that our fine undertaking in Cumberland
is all blown up. The militia would not march into Scotland, and your prick-ear'd Covenanters
have been too hard for our friends in the southern shires. And so, understanding there is some
stirring work here, Musgrave and I, rather than sit idle at home, are come to have a campaign
among your kilts and plaids."

"I hope you have brought arms, men, and money with you," said Lord Menteith, smiling.

"Only some dozen or two of troopers, whom we left at the last Lowland village," said Musgrave,
"and trouble enough we had to get them so far."

"As for money," said his companion, "We expect a small supply from our friend and host here."

The Laird now, colouring highly, took Menteith a little apart, and expressed to him his regret
that he had fallen into a foolish blunder.

"I heard it from Donald," said Lord Menteith, scarce able to suppress a smile.

"Devil take that old man," said M'Aulay, "he would tell every thing, were it to cost one's
life; but it's no jesting matter to you neither, my lord, for I reckon on your friendly and
fraternal benevolence, as a near kinsman of our house, to help me out with the money due to
these pock-puddings; or else, to be plain wi' ye, the deil a M'Aulay will there be at the muster,
for curse me if I do not turn Covenanter rather than face these fellows without paying them;
and, at the best, I shall be ill enough off, getting both the scaith and the scorn."

"You may suppose, cousin," said Lord Menteith, "I am not too well equipt just now; but you
may be assured I shall endeavour to help you as well as I can, for the sake of old kindred,
neighbourhood, and alliance."

"Thank ye--thank ye--thank ye," reiterated M'Aulay; "and as they are to spend the money in
the King's service, what signifies whether you, they, or I pay it?--we are a' one man's bairns,
I hope? But you must help me out too with some reasonable excuse, or else I shall be for taking
to Andrew Ferrara; for I like not to be treated like a liar or a braggart at my own board-end,
when, God knows, I only meant to support my honour, and that of my family and country."

Donald, as they were speaking, entered, with rather a blither face than he might have been
expected to wear, considering the impending fate of his master's purse and credit. "Gentlemens,
her dinner is ready, and HER CANDLES ARE LIGHTED TOO," said Donald, with a strong guttural
emphasis on the last clause of his speech.

"What the devil can he mean?" said Musgrave, looking to his countryman.

Lord Menteith put the same question with his eyes to the Laird, which M'Aulay answered by shaking
his head.

A short dispute about precedence somewhat delayed their leaving the apartment. Lord Menteith
insisted upon yielding up that which belonged to his rank, on consideration of his being in
his own country, and of his near connexion with the family in which they found themselves.
The two English strangers, therefore, were first ushered into the hall, where an unexpected
display awaited them. The large oaken table was spread with substantial joints of meat, and
seats were placed in order for the guests. Behind every seat stood a gigantic Highlander, completely
dressed and armed after the fashion of his country, holding in his right hand his drawn sword,
with the point turned downwards, and in the left a blazing torch made of the bog-pine. This
wood, found in the morasses, is so full of turpentine, that, when split and dried, it is frequently
used in the Highlands instead of candles. The unexpected and somewhat startling apparition
was seen by the red glare of the torches, which displayed the wild features, unusual dress,
and glittering arms of those who bore them, while the smoke, eddying up to the roof of the
hall, over-canopied them with a volume of vapour. Ere the strangers had recovered from their
surprise, Allan stept forward, and pointing with his sheathed broadsword to the torch-bearers,
said, in a deep and stern tone of voice, "Behold, gentlemen cavaliers, the chandeliers of my
brother's house, the ancient fashion of our ancient name; not one of these men knows any law
but their Chiefs command--Would you dare to compare to THEM in value the richest ore that ever
was dug out of the mine? How say you, cavaliers?--is your wager won or lost?"

"Lost; lost," said Musgrave, gaily--"my own silver candlesticks are all melted and riding on
horseback by this time, and I wish the fellows that enlisted were half as trusty as these.--Here,
sir," he added to the Chief, "is your money; it impairs Hall's finances and mine somewhat,
but debts of honour must be settled."

"My father's curse upon my father's son," said Allan, interrupting him, "if he receive from
you one penny! It is enough that you claim no right to exact from him what is his own."

Lord Menteith eagerly supported Allan's opinion, and the elder M'Aulay readily joined, declaring
the whole to be a fool's business, and not worth speaking more about. The Englishmen, after
some courteous opposition, were persuaded to regard the whole as a joke.

"And now, Allan," said the Laird, "please to remove your candles; for, since the Saxon gentlemen
have seen them, they will eat their dinner as comfortably by the light of the old tin sconces,
without scomfishing them with so much smoke."

Accordingly, at a sign from Allan, the living chandeliers, recovering their broadswords, and
holding the point erect, marched out of the hall, and left the guests to enjoy their refreshment.
[Such a bet as that mentioned in the text is said to have been taken by MacDonald of Keppoch,
who extricated himself in the manner there narrated.]

CHAPTER V.

     Thareby so fearlesse and so fell he grew,
     That his own syre and maister of his guise
     Did often tremble at his horrid view;
     And if for dread of hurt would him advise,
     The angry beastes not rashly to despise,
     Nor too much to provoke; for he would learne
     The lion stoup to him in lowly wise,
     (A lesson hard,) and make the libbard sterne
     Leave roaring, when in rage he for revenge did earne.--SPENSER.

Notwithstanding the proverbial epicurism of the English,--proverbial, that is to say, in Scotland
at the period,--the English visitors made no figure whatever at the entertainment, compared
with the portentous voracity of Captain Dalgetty, although that gallant soldier had already
displayed much steadiness and pertinacity in his attack upon the lighter refreshment set before
them at their entrance, by way of forlorn hope. He spoke to no one during the time of his meal;
and it was not until the victuals were nearly withdrawn from the table, that he gratified the
rest of the company, who had watched him with some surprise, with an account of the reasons
why he ate so very fast and so very long.

"The former quality," he said, "he had acquired, while he filled a place at the bursar's table
at the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen; when," said he; "if you did not move your jaws as fast
as a pair of castanets, you were very unlikely to get any thing to put between them. And as
for the quantity of my food, be it known to this honourable company," continued the Captain,
"that it's the duty of every commander of a fortress, on all occasions which offer, to secure
as much munition and vivers as their magazines can possibly hold, not knowing when they may
have to sustain a siege or a blockade. Upon which principle, gentlemen," said he, "when a cavalier
finds that provant is good and abundant, he will, in my estimation, do wisely to victual himself
for at least three days, as there is no knowing when he may come by another meal."

The Laird expressed his acquiescence in the prudence of this principle, and recommended to
the veteran to add a tass of brandy and a flagon of claret to the substantial provisions he
had already laid in, to which proposal the Captain readily agreed.

When dinner was removed, and the servants had withdrawn, excepting the Laird's page, or henchman,
who remained in the apartment to call for or bring whatever was wanted, or, in a word, to answer
the purposes of a modern bell-wire, the conversation began to turn upon politics, and the state
of the country; and Lord Menteith enquired anxiously and particularly what clans were expected
to join the proposed muster of the King's friends.

"That depends much, my lord, on the person who lifts the banner," said the Laird; "for you
know we Highlanders, when a few clans are assembled, are not easily commanded by one of our
own Chiefs, or, to say the truth, by any other body. We have heard a rumour, indeed, that Colkitto--that
is, young Colkitto, or Alaster M'Donald, is come over the Kyle from Ireland, with a body of
the Earl of Antrim's people, and that they had got as far as Ardnamurchan. They might have
been here before now, but, I suppose, they loitered to plunder the country as they came along."

"Will Colkitto not serve you for a leader, then?" said Lord Menteith.

"Colkitto?" said Allan M'Aulay, scornfully; "who talks of Colkitto?--There lives but one man
whom we will follow, and that is Montrose."

"But Montrose, sir," said Sir Christopher Hall, "has not been heard of since our ineffectual
attempt to rise in the north of England. It is thought he has returned to the King at Oxford
for farther instructions."

"Returned!" said Allan, with a scornful laugh; "I could tell ye, but it is not worth my while;
ye will know soon enough."

"By my honour, Allan," said Lord Menteith, "you will weary out your friends with this intolerable,
froward, and sullen humour--But I know the reason," added he, laughing; "you have not seen
Annot Lyle to-day."

"Whom did you say I had not seen?" said Allan, sternly.

"Annot Lyle, the fairy queen of song and minstrelsy," said Lord Menteith.

"Would to God I were never to see her again," said Allan, sighing, "On condition the same weird
were laid on you!"

"And why on me?" said Lord Menteith, carelessly.

"Because," said Allan, "it is written on your forehead, that you are to be the ruin of each
other." So saying, he rose up and left the room.

"Has he been long in this way?" asked Lord Menteith, addressing his brother.

"About three days," answered Angus; "the fit is wellnigh over, he will be better to-morrow.--But
come, gentlemen, don't let the tappit-hen scraugh to be emptied. The King's health, King Charles's
health! and may the covenanting dog that refuses it, go to Heaven by the road of the Grassmarket!" 

Try us and be convinced.

FALL IS APPROACHING-- Our Dyeing Departments are equipped in the same
manner as the Laundry, with all the latest and most up-to-date machinery
and appliances for the handling of all grades of work, from the most
delicate fabrics to the heaviest and coarsest material.

Fine Lace, Ladies Dresses, Gents'Suits, Curtains, Portieres, Rugs, etc. CARPETS CLEANED in
a superior manner; all moths removed by our process of cleaning.

All the orders entrusted to the Pfeiffer Dye Works and Laundry are under the personal supervision
of the proprietors. All our work returned with the quickest despatch.
Customers have not to wait until near midnight to have their goods
returned.

M'Aulay and his English guests stared at this declaration, which would have certainly bred
new disturbance, if Lord Menteith had not taken up the affair, and explained the circumstances
and conditions. "I trust," he concluded, "we shall be able to secure Captain Dalgetty's assistance
to our own party."

"And if not," said the Laird, "I protest, as the Captain says, that nothing that has passed
this evening, not even his having eaten my bread and salt, and pledged me in brandy, Bourdeaux,
or usquebaugh, shall prejudice my cleaving him to the neck-bone."

"You shall be heartily welcome," said the Captain, "providing my sword cannot keep my head,
which it has done in worse dangers than your fend is likely to make for me."

Here Lord Menteith again interposed, and the concord of the company being with no small difficulty
restored, was cemented by some deep carouses. Lord Menteith, however, contrived to break up
the party earlier than was the usage of the Castle, under pretence of fatigue and indisposition.
This was somewhat to the disappointment of the valiant Captain, who, among other habits acquired
in the Low countries, had acquired both a disposition to drink, and a capacity to bear, an
exorbitant quantity of strong liquors.

Their landlord ushered them in person to a sort of sleeping gallery, in which there was a four-post
bed, with tartan curtains, and a number of cribs, or long hampers, placed along the wall, three
of which, well stuffed with blooming heather, were prepared for the reception of guests.

"I need not tell your lordship," said M'Aulay to Lord Menteith, a little apart, "our Highland
mode of quartering. Only that, not liking you should sleep in the room alone with this German
land-louper, I have caused your servants' beds to be made here in the gallery. By G--d, my
lord, these are times when men go to bed with a throat hale and sound as ever swallowed brandy,
and before next morning it may be gaping like an oyster-shell."

Lord Menteith thanked him sincerely, saying, "It was just the arrangement he would have requested;
for, although he had not the least apprehension of violence from Captain Dalgetty, yet Anderson
was a better kind of person, a sort of gentleman, whom he always liked to have near his person."

"I have not seen this Anderson," said M'Aulay; "did you hire him in England?"

"I did so," said Lord Menteith; "you will see the man to-morrow; in the meantime I wish you
good-night."

His host left the apartment after the evening salutation, and was about to pay the same compliment
to Captain Dalgetty, but observing him deeply engaged in the discussion of a huge pitcher filled
with brandy posset, he thought it a pity to disturb him in so laudable an employment, and took
his leave without farther ceremony.

Lord Menteith's two attendants entered the apartment almost immediately after his departure.
The good Captain, who was now somewhat encumbered with his good cheer, began to find the undoing
of the clasps of his armour a task somewhat difficult, and addressed Anderson in these words,
interrupted by a slight hiccup,--"Anderson, my good friend, you may read in Scripture, that
he that putteth off his armour should not boast himself like he that putteth it on--I believe
that is not the right word of command; but the plain truth of it is, I am like to sleep in
my corslet, like many an honest fellow that never waked again, unless you unloose this buckle."

"Undo his armour, Sibbald," said Anderson to the other servant.

"By St. Andrew!" exclaimed the Captain, turning round in great astonishment, "here's a common
fellow--a stipendiary with four pounds a-year and a livery cloak, thinks himself too good to
serve Ritt-master Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket, who has studied humanity at the Mareschal-College
of Aberdeen, and served half the princes of Europe!"

"Captain Dalgetty," said Lord Menteith, whose lot it was to stand peacemaker throughout the
evening, "please to understand that Anderson waits upon no one but myself; but I will help
Sibbald to undo your corslet with much pleasure."

"Too much trouble for you, my lord," said Dalgetty; "and yet it would do you no harm to practise
how a handsome harness is put on and put off. I can step in and out of mine like a glove; only
to-night, although not EBRIUS, I am, in the classic phrase, VINO CIBOQUE GRAVATUS."

By this time he was unshelled, and stood before the fire musing with a face of drunken wisdom
on the events of the evening. What seemed chiefly to interest him, was the character of Allan
M'Aulay. "To come over the Englishmen so cleverly with his Highland torch-bearers--eight bare-breeched
Rories for six silver candlesticks!--it was a master-piece--a TOUR DE PASSE--it was perfect
legerdemain--and to be a madman after all!--I doubt greatly, my lord" (shaking his head), "that
I must allow him, notwithstanding his relationship to your lordship, the privileges of a rational
person, and either batoon him sufficiently to expiate the violence offered to my person, or
else bring it to a matter of mortal arbitrement, as becometh an insulted cavalier."

"If you care to hear a long story," said Lord Menteith, "at this time of night, I can tell
you how the circumstances of Allan's birth account so well for his singular character, as to
put such satisfaction entirely out of the question."

"A long story, my lord," said Captain Dalgetty, "is, next to a good evening draught and a warm
nightcap, the best shoeinghorn for drawing on a sound sleep. And since your lordship is pleased
to take the trouble to tell it, I shall rest your patient and obliged auditor."

"Anderson," said Lord Menteith, "and you, Sibbald, are dying to hear, I suppose, of this strange
man too! and I believe I must indulge your curiosity, that you may know how to behave to him
in time of need. You had better step to the fire then."

Having thus assembled an audience about him, Lord Menteith sat down upon the edge of the four-post
bed, while Captain Dalgetty, wiping the relics of the posset from his beard and mustachoes,
and repeating the first verse of the Lutheran psalm, ALLE GUTER GEISTER LOBEN DEN HERRN, etc.
rolled himself into one of the places of repose, and thrusting his shock pate from between
the blankets, listened to Lord Menteith's relation in a most luxurious state, between sleeping
and waking.

"The father," said Lord Menteith, "of the two brothers, Angus and Allan M'Aulay, was a gentleman
of consideration and family, being the chief of a Highland clan, of good account, though not
numerous; his lady, the mother of these young men, was a gentlewoman of good family, if I may
be permitted to say so of one nearly connected with my own. Her brother, an honourable and
spirited young man, obtained from James the Sixth a grant of forestry, and other privileges,
over a royal chase adjacent to this castle; and, in exercising and defending these rights,
he was so unfortunate as to involve himself in a quarrel with some of our Highland freebooters
or caterans, of whom I think, Captain Dalgetty, you must have heard."

"And that I have," said the Captain, exerting himself to answer the appeal. "Before I left
the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen, Dugald Garr was playing the devil in the Garioch, and the
Farquharsons on Dee-side, and the Clan Chattan on the Gordons' lands, and the Grants and Camerons
in Moray-land. And since that, I have seen the Cravats and Pandours in Pannonia and Transylvania,
and the Cossacks from the Polish frontier, and robbers, banditti, and barbarians of all countries
besides, so that I have a distinct idea of your broken Highlandmen."

"The clan," said Lord Menteith, "with whom the maternal uncle of the M'Aulays had been placed
in feud, was a small sept of banditti, called, from their houseless state, and their incessantly
wandering among the mountains and glens, the Children of the Mist. They are a fierce and hardy
people, with all the irritability, and wild and vengeful passions, proper to men who have never
known the restraint of civilized society. A party of them lay in wait for the unfortunate Warden
of the Forest, surprised him while hunting alone and unattended, and slew him with every circumstance
of inventive cruelty. They cut off his head, and resolved, in a bravado, to exhibit it at the
castle of his brother-in-law. The laird was absent, and the lady reluctantly received as guests,
men against whom, perhaps, she was afraid to shut her gates. Refreshments were placed before
the Children of the Mist, who took an opportunity to take the head of their victim from the
plaid in which it was wrapt, placed it on the table, put a piece of bread between the lifeless
jaws, bidding them do their office now, since many a good meal they had eaten at that table.
The lady, who had been absent for some household purpose, entered at this moment, and, upon
beholding her brother's head, fled like an arrow out of the house into the woods, uttering
shriek upon shriek. The ruffians, satisfied with this savage triumph, withdrew. The terrified
menials, after overcoming the alarm to which they had been subjected, sought their unfortunate
mistress in every direction, but she was nowhere to be found. The miserable husband returned
next day, and, with the assistance of his people, undertook a more anxious and distant search,
but to equally little purpose. At the south side of the basin there are two or three inlets of considerable
size, that trend in towards a low country. At ten miles South-East by East from the narrow
entrance to the basin the river again resumes its narrow channel, and runs up so perfectly
straight for fourteen miles in a South-East by East course, that the hills, which rise precipitously
on either bank, were lost in distance, and the river assumed the
most exact appearance of being a strait; it was from one to one mile
and a quarter wide, and generally of from four to eight fathoms deep
on a bottom of yellow sand: the river then took a slight bend, and
continued to run up for twelve or thirteen miles further, with a few
slight curves, and gradually to decrease in width until terminated
by a bar of rocks; which, when the tide rose high enough to fall over,
was very dangerous to pass: here a considerable gully joins the main
stream, and, being fresh water, was supposed to have the same source
as Roe's River.

The river trended up for about three or four miles farther, when it is entirely stopped by a
rapid formed of stones, beyond which we did not persevere in tracing
it; the tide did not reach above this, and the stream was perceived
to continue and form a very beautiful fresh-water river, about two
or three hundred yards wide.

As our means did not allow of our persevering any further, we gave up our examination. At seventeen
miles above St. George's Basin, on the south shore, we found a cascade
of fresh water falling in a considerable quantity from the height
of one hundred and forty feet; and this, in the rainy season, must
be a very large fall, for its breadth is at least fifty yards.

At the time of our visit it was near the end of the dry season: and even then there was a very considerable
quantity falling.

Several small inlets trended in on either side of the river above the basin, particularly one
upon the north side, which, from the height of the hills under which it trended, would probably
produce a freshwater stream. In 1821 the Bathurst watered from the cascade, but the fatigue was too
great, and the heat too powerful, for the boats'crew had to pull nearly forty miles every trip.
High water took place in St. George's Basin at twenty minutes after twelve o'clock: the tide
rose twenty-four feet.

HANOVER BAY is a very convenient port, about five miles deep, but exposed from the North-North-West;
the anchorage is, however, so good, that no danger need be apprehended.

At the bottom of the bay there is a deep chasm in the land, yielding a fresh-water stream; beyond
this the bay terminates in a shoal basin. In the offing are several rocky islets, particularly
one, a high rock, which is very remarkable. A little to the north-east of the river is a sandy
beach, the situation of which is in latitude 15 degrees 18 minutes 21 seconds, and longitude
124 degrees 46 minutes 50 seconds.

HIGH BLUFF, the extremity of the promontory separating Hanover Bay from Port George the Fourth,
speaks for itself. It is in latitude 15 degrees 14 minutes 40 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees
41 minutes 35 seconds. Between High Bluff and Point Adieu, in latitude 15 degrees 14 minutes
10 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees 34 minutes 45 seconds, is PORT GEORGE THE FOURTH, having
midway in its entrance a high island nearly two miles long; and to the southward, in the centre of
the port, a high rocky islet, the LUMP, the summit of which is situated in latitude 15 degrees
18 minutes 30 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees 37 minutes 50 seconds. The western side of the
port is an extensive island, AUGUSTUS ISLAND, eleven miles long; it is high and rocky, and
has several bays on its eastern side. The port affords very good anchorage, particularly between
Entrance Island and the Lump, in nine fathoms, mud; but there is
also very good anchorage with the Lump bearing west, in ten fathoms,
mud.

Port George the Fourth terminates in a strait, ROGER'S STRAIT, communicating with Camden Bay.
The best entrance to the port is on the eastern side of Entrance Island; for the opposite, although
practicable and sufficiently deep for the largest ships, is narrow, and must be buoyed before
it can be used.

POINT ADIEU is the last land seen by us in 1820: it is the north-east end of Augustus Island, and
is a rocky, bluff point. In the offing, at the distance of three miles, there is a considerable
range of reefs, that extend from the peaked island of Jackson's Isles; and more to the north-west
is another group of rocky islands.

To the westward of Augustus Island is a range of islands extending for five leagues; on their
north side they are fronted by considerable coral reefs, which at low water are dry; besides
which there are several small islets that contract the channels, and render the navigation intricate
and difficult. Between Augustus and Byam Martin's Islands there is an open strait, of one mile
and a half wide; but, its communication with the sea to the north, appears to be little more
than half a mile. BYAM MARTIN'S ISLAND is separated from a range of small islets, extending North-North-East
by a strait; and these last are divided from the Champagny Isles by another strait, from twenty-eight
to thirty fathoms deep, through which the tide runs with great force. Off the north end of
Byam Martin's Island are several smaller islets and coral reefs; the latter extend from it for more
than six miles: the north-westernmost of these islets is the land seen in 1801 by Captain Heywood,
and was called by him Vulcan Point: RED ISLAND, which he also saw, is eight miles to the westward;
it is in latitude 15 degrees 13 minutes 15 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees 15 minutes 45 seconds:
between it and Champagny Isles the ebbing tide uncovered several extensive reefs. Ten miles
North 26 degrees East from Red Island, and South 71 degrees West from Freycinet's Island,
is a dry sandbank surrounded by a reef.

DEGERANDO ISLAND, so called by the French, is the southernmost of the CHAMPAGNY ISLES: considerable
reefs extend off its south end, which are dry at low water; its centre is in latitude 15 degrees
20 minutes 45 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees 13 minutes 15 seconds.

CAMDEN BAY is formed between Byam Martin's Island and Pratt's Islands, and extends to the eastward
to Roger's Strait; it is twelve miles deep and eight wide. Here the tide rose and fell thirty-seven
feet and a half, the moon's age being nineteen days. High water took place thirteen minutes after
the moon's transit.

Between Camden Bay and Point Swan, a distance of ninety miles, the
mainland falls back, and forms a very considerable opening fronted
by a multitude of islands, islets, and reefs, into which, from our
loss of anchors; we were not able to penetrate.

From Camden Bay the islands, for the coast seemed too irregular to be the mainland, extend in
a range in a south direction for more than fifty-five miles, to where there appeared to be a deep
opening, or strait, from three to five miles wide. An irregular line of coast then appeared to
extend for seven leagues to the North-West, and afterwards to the
westward for five or six leagues.

To the westward of this, the land appeared to be less continuous, and to be formed by a mass
of islands separated by deep and narrow straits, through some of which the tide was observed
to rush with considerable strength, foaming and curling in its stream, as if it were rushing
through a bed of rocks: this was particularly observed among the islands to the south of Macleay's
Islands. After extending for thirty miles farther to the South-West, the land terminates evidently
in islands, which then trend to the South-East; and to the westward they are separated from
Cygnet Bay, and the land to the southward of it by a strait five or six leagues wide. The narrowest
part of this strait is at Point Cunningham, where it is twelve miles wide; two-thirds over
to the islands are two rocky islets, which bear due south from Sunday
Strait.

MONTGOMERY ISLANDS, a group of seven islets on the eastern side of this extensive range of
islands, which are named BUCCANEER'S ARCHIPELAGO, are low and of small extent, particularly the six easternmost,
none of which are a mile long: the westernmost, which has an extensive reef stretching to the
North-West, is more than three miles in diameter, and appears to be of different formation to the
other, being low and flat, whilst the rest are scarcely better than a heap of stones, slightly
clothed with vegetation. Between the easternmost islet and the land, there is a strait of
a league in width. The tide prevented our trying its depth: a league and a half to the north-west,
at high-water, we had irregular soundings between ten and sixteen
fathoms, but six fathoms must be deducted from it to reduce it to
the depth at low water.

Three leagues to the north-west of Montgomery's westernmost island are COCKELL'S ISLES, two
in number, low and flat, but of small size. A reef extends for more than five miles to the westward,
and it was not thought improbable that it might be connected with the reefs that extend to the westward
of Montgomery Islands. The centre of the largest island is in 15 degrees 48 minutes South, and
124 degrees 4 minutes East. To the North-East of Cockell's Islands the flood-tide sets to
the south; but to the westward with great strength to the South-East, and, at an anchorage ten miles
to the eastward of Macleay Isles, the tide rose and fell thirty-six feet, the moon being twenty-one
days old. Cockell's Islands are twenty miles from the land to the south; and in this interval, but
within four leagues from the shore, are several small rocky islets, on one of which there
is a remarkable lump; nearer the shore are two islands, which have a more fertile and verdant
appearance than any other part near them: these form the western
extremity of COLLIER'S BAY.

MACLEAY
ISLES lie in a North by West direction, and are eight miles in extent; the principal and highest
island is near the south end of the group; those to the northward are small and straggling. The centre
of the highest is in latitude 15 degrees 57 minutes, and longitude
123 degrees 42 minutes.

CAFFARELLI
ISLAND was seen by the French. Its summit is in latitude 16 degrees 2 minutes 25 seconds, and
longitude 123 degrees 18 minutes 35 seconds. It is the north-westernmost of a range of islands,
extending in the direction of North 60 degrees West; among which Cleft Island, so named from a remarkable
cleft or chasm near its north end, and DAMPIER'S MONUMENT, are conspicuous: the latter is a
high lump. This range is separated from one of a similar nature, and extending in a like direction
to the eastward, by a strait from three to four miles wide, and from
fifteen to twenty deep.

Fourteen
miles North 68 degrees West from the summit of Caffarelli Island is BRUE REEF, a circular patch
of rocks of about a mile in diameter; three miles to the north-east
of which we had irregular soundings, between thirty-eight and forty-five
fathoms on a rocky bottom.

The reef is in 15 degrees 57 minutes South, and 123 degrees 4 minutes
45 seconds East.

Six miles south of Caffarelli Island, is a rocky island, surrounded by a reef; and eight miles
farther are several small rocky islands, forming the north extremity of a range, which, extending
to the South by East for ten miles, form the eastern side of Sunday Strait, which is the best,
and in fact the only safe communication with the deep opening between Point Cunningham and the
islands to the eastward. Between this strait and Point Swan, a distance of eleven miles, the space
is occupied by a multitude of islands and islets, separated from each other by narrow and, probably,
by deep channels, through which the tide rushes with frightful rapidity. Sunday Strait is more
than four miles wide, and appears to be free from danger. The tide sets through it at the rate
of four or five miles an hour, and forms strong ripplings, which would be, perhaps, dangerous
for a boat to encounter. The vessel was whirled round several times in passing through it; but a
boat, by being able to pull, might in a great measure avoid passing
through them.

CYGNET BAY is formed between the islands and Point Cunningham; it is fronted by a bank, over
which the least water that we found was two fathoms; within this bank there is good anchorage,
and near the inlets at the bottom of the bay, there is a muddy bottom, with eight and nine fathoms
mud.

POINT CUNNINGHAM projects slightly to the eastward; its easternmost
extremity is in latitude 16 degrees 39 minutes 20 seconds and longitude
123 degrees 10 minutes; from the northward it has the appearance of
being an island, as the land to the westward is rather lower: two
miles and a half south of it is Carlisle Head, the north extremity
of GOODENOUGH BAY.

The shore thence extends in a South-South-East direction for seventeen miles, in which space there is
a shoal bay, beyond which we did not penetrate. Off the point is an islet, in latitude about
16 degrees 58 minutes, and to the south of it the land was seen trending
to the South by East for four or five miles, when it was lost in
distance.

From this anchorage no land was distinctly seen to the eastward; between the bearings of East-North-East
and South-South-East, a slight glimmering of land was raised above
the horizon, by the effect of refraction; but this, as in a case that
occurred before in a neighbouring part off Point Gantheaume, might
be at least fifty miles off.

From all that is at present known of this remarkable opening, there is enough to excite the greatest
interest; since, from the extent of the opening, the rapidity of the stream, and the great rise
and fall of the tides, there must be a very extensive gulf or opening, totally different from
everything that has been before seen.

There is also good reason to suspect that the land between Cape Leveque and Point Gantheaume
is an island; and if so, the mouth of this opening is eight miles
wide; besides, who is to say that the land even of Cape Villaret may
not also be an island?

The French expedition only saw small portions of the coast to the
southward; but it does not appear probable that the opening extends
to the southward of Cape Villaret.

(See above.) Thirty-three miles in a North 14 degrees West direction
from the summit of Caffarelli Island is ADELE ISLAND.

It is low, and merely covered with a few shrubs, and is about three miles from east to west,
and from one to one and a half broad; its west end is in 15 degrees
30 minutes South, and 123 degrees 9 minutes 15 seconds East.

At about a league North-West from its western end are two bare sandy islets, which were uncovered as
we passed, but which as there was not the slightest appearance of vegetation
upon it, may be covered at high water.

On the western side of Adele Island, is an extensive patch of light-coloured water, in some parts
of which the sea broke upon the rocks, which were only just below the surface. The light-coloured
water extends for fourteen miles North West by West 1/ 2 West from Adele Island, but there is reason to
think that the water is deep over the greater part of it; for we
crossed over its tail, and sounded in forty-five fathoms without
finding bottom, whilst in the darker-coloured water on either side
of it, we had forty-two and forty-four fathoms.

POINT SWAN is the north-easternmost point of the land of Cape Leveque;
it has an island close off its extremity, round which the tide rushes
with great force, and forms a line of ripplings for ten miles to the
West-North-West, through which, even in the Bathurst, we found it dangerous
to pass. Five miles to the north-eastward of the point are two small rocky
islets, two miles apart from each other.

CAPE LEVEQUE is low and rocky, with a small islet close to its extremity: its extreme is in latitude 16 degrees
21 minutes 50 seconds, and longitude 122 degrees 56 minutes 35 seconds. Between the cape and
Point Swan, there is a sandy bay, fronted by a bed of rocks. It was
in this bay that the Buccaneers anchored, which Dampier has so well
described.

The coast between CAPES LEVEQUE and BORDA extending South 40 degrees
West nineteen miles, is low and rocky, and the country sandy and
unproductive.

     

Between Cape Borda and Point Emeriau is a bay ten miles deep, backed by very low sandy land; and five
miles further is another bay, that appeared to be very shoal: thence the coast extends to
the South-West for twenty-three miles to CAPE BASKERVILLE; it is low
and sandy, like that to the northward, but the interior is higher,
and with some appearance of vegetation.

     Thirteen miles from the shore are the LACEPEDE ISLANDS;
     they are three in number, and surrounded by a reef nine miles long
by five wide.

They lie in a North-West direction, and are two miles apart: the north-westernmost
is in latitude 16 degrees 49 minutes 40 seconds, and longitude 122
degrees 7 minutes 20 seconds: they are low and slightly clothed with
bushes, and seem to be little more than the dry parts of the reef,
on which a soil has been accumulated, and in time produced vegetation.

These islands appear to be the haunt of prodigious numbers of boobies.
The variation is 0 degrees 12 minutes West. In latitude 16 degrees
46 minutes, and longitude 121 degrees 50 minutes 30 seconds, the French
have placed a reef, BANC DES BALEINES; which we did not approach near
enough to see. Between Capes Baskerville and Berthollet, is CARNOT BAY; it
is six miles deep, and backed by low land.

The bottom of the bay was not distinctly seen, but from the appearance of the land behind the beach,
it is not improbable that there may be a rivulet falling into it.

At POINT COULOMB, in latitude 17 degrees 21 minutes, where there is a range of dark red cliffs, the
coast commences to present a more verdant and pleasing appearance than to the north: the interior
rises to an unusual height, and forms a round-backed hill, covered with trees: it reminded us of
the appearance of the country of the north coast, and is so different
from the rugged and barren character of the Islands of Buccaneer's
Archipelago as to afford an additional ground for our conjecture of
the insularity of this land.

The red cliffs extend for four miles to the southward of Point Coulomb, and are then superseded by
a low coast, composed alternately of rocky shores and sandy beaches.

CAPE BOILEAU is seventeen miles to the south of Point Coulomb; here the
shore trends in and forms a bay fifteen miles wide and six deep: the
south head is the land of Point Gantheaume, which is composed of
sandhills very bare of vegetation, as was also the character of the
interior.

From Point Gantheaume, in latitude 17 degrees 53 minutes, the coast
trends to the South-East for about fifteen miles, where it was lost
to view in distance: the extreme was a low sandy point, and appeared
to be the south extremity of the land.

The space to the south of this, which appeared to be a strait, insulating the land to the
north as far as Cape Leveque, is nine miles wide.

The south shore trends to the westward to Cape Villaret, on which there is a remarkable hillock,
in latitude 18 degrees 19 minutes 5 seconds, and longitude 122 degrees 3 minutes 45 seconds. The space
between the Cape and Point Gantheaume was called ROEBUCK BAY. It is
here that Captain Dampier landed, in the year 1688. Three miles to
the south of the hillock on Cape Villaret, are two lumps, which at a
distance appeared like rocks. Cape Latouche-Treville has a small hummock
near its extremity, in latitude 18 degrees 29 minutes, and longitude
121 degrees 50 minutes 50 seconds; to the eastward of it, there is
a shallow bay open to the northward.

The depth of water in the offing of Roebuck Bay, is between eight and twelve fathoms; the bottom
is sandy, and there are in some parts sandbanks, on which the depth
decreased three fathoms at one heave, but the least water was eight
fathoms.

The flood-tide sets to the eastward, towards the opening, and at an anchorage near Cape Latouche-Treville,
the ebb ran to the North-East: but the tides were at the neaps, and did not rise more than sixteen
feet. Captain Dampier, at the springs, found it flow thirty feet, which tends unquestionably
to prove the opening behind Roebuck Bay to be considerable, even if
it does not communicate with that behind the Buccaneer's Archipelago.
The interval between Cape Latouche-Treville and Depuch Island, was not
seen by us.

The following brief description of it is taken from M. De Freycinet's account of Commodore Baudin's
voyage. LAGRANGE BAY, to the east of Cape Bossut, is a bight, the bottom of which was not seen. CAPE
BOSSUT is low and sandy, as well as the neighbouring land; and, with the exception of a small grove
of trees a little to the north of Cape Duhamel, the country is sterile
everywhere.

The CASUARINA REEF is a bank of sand and rocks, parts of which are dry, on which the sea occasionally
breaks.

The channel between it and the shore is narrow and shoal, the depth
being two and a half fathoms.

The dry part of the reef extends from east to west for about two
miles. Between CAPES DUHAMEL and MISSIESSY, the coast is sandy and sterile,
with rocky projections: GEOFFROY and DESAULT BAYS are of the same
character.

With the exception of two intervals, one of which is to the west
of Cape Missiessy, and the other to the east of the Bancs des Planaires,
the French saw the coast between Capes Missiessy and Keraudren, but
at a great distance. It appeared low and sterile.

The BANCS DES PLANAIRES appeared to have a considerable longitudinal extent; it was not ascertained whether
they joined the mainland: some parts seemed to be dry at low water.
There is a bank with only fourteen feet water over it, situated nearly
North-East from Cape Keraudren in 19 degrees 41 minutes latitude.

North, a little westerly, from CAPE LARREY, between which and Cape Keraudren there is a bay with
an island (POISSONNIER) in the entrance, is BEDOUT ISLAND. It is in
latitude 19 degrees 29 minutes, longitude 116 degrees 32 minutes,
East of Paris, or 118 degrees 52 minutes East of Greenwich.

It is low and sandy. The BANC DES AMPHINOMES is very extensive, and appeared to be connected with
the main; it is composed of coral, rocks, and sand.

The coast
to the South-West of Cape Larrey is, as well as the Cape itself, of a remarkable red colour.
The country appeared to be sterile. TURTLE ISLANDS, two in number, lie West-North-West from
Cape Larrey: the south-westernmost is merely a flat sandy islet (PLATEAU
DE SABLE) the other is surrounded by a reef of coral, upon which
the sea breaks.

The Casuarina (M. De Freycinet's vessel) had nine fathoms within half
a mile of it; the reef appeared to be steep, and the island to afford
a landing in fine weather.

The land is equally low and sandy as far as CAPE THOUIN and CAPE COSSIGNY. The GEOGRAPHE REEFS extend
for more than twelve miles, and perhaps are joined to the land.
Their southern parts dry at low water.

The Geographe sailed through them, so that it is probable they are detached in numerous reefs. At FORESTIER
ISLANDS we saw the coast again.

The main is here very low, but from the shoalness of the water we were
not able to penetrate behind Depuch Island. It is very uncertain whether
the coastline that is laid down upon the chart is correct: it was scarcely
visible from the deck, and was so low that it might have merely been
the dry parts of extensive reefs.

The high land retires for fifteen or twenty miles, and forms an amphitheatre
or deep bay, with some hills of considerable elevation in the distance.

All the islands of this group are low and sandy, excepting DEPUCH, which is high, and of a very peculiar
formation; it is described in the first volume.

We did not land upon it, but on its north-east side there appeared to be a bay, on which the
French found a stream of water.

Between DEPUCH ISLAND and CAPE LAMBERT the coast is very shoal.

All accompanied their hospitable landlord excepting only Lord Menteith, who lingered in one
of the deep embrasures formed by the windows of the hall. Annot Lyle shortly after glided into
the room, not ill described by Lord Menteith as being the lightest and most fairy figure that
ever trode the turf by moonlight. Her stature, considerably less than the ordinary size of
women, gave her the appearance of extreme youth, insomuch, that although she was near eighteen,
she might have passed for four years younger. Her figure, hands, and feet, were formed upon
a model of exquisite symmetry with the size and lightness of her person, so that Titania herself
could scarce have found a more fitting representative. Her hair was a dark shade of the colour
usually termed flaxen, whose clustering ringlets suited admirably with her fair complexion,
and with the playful, yet simple, expression of her features. When we add to these charms,
that Annot, in her orphan state, seemed the gayest and happiest of maidens, the reader must
allow us to claim for her the interest of almost all who looked on her. In fact, it was impossible
to find a more universal favourite, and she often came among the rude inhabitants of the castle,
as Allan himself, in a poetical mood, expressed it, "like a sunbeam on a sullen sea," communicating
to all others the cheerfulness that filled her own mind.

Annot, such as we have described her, smiled and blushed, when, on entering the apartment,
Lord Menteith came from his place of retirement, and kindly wished her good-morning.

"And good-morning to you, my lord," returned she, extending her hand to her friend; "we have
seldom seen you of late at the castle, and now I fear it is with no peaceful purpose."

"At least, let me not interrupt your harmony, Annot," said Lord Menteith, "though my arrival
may breed discord elsewhere. My cousin Allan needs the assistance of your voice and music."

"My preserver," said Annot Lyle, "has a right to my poor exertions; and you, too, my lord,--you,
too, are my preserver, and were the most active to save a life that is worthless enough, unless
it can benefit my protectors."

So saying, she sate down at a little distance upon the bench on which Allan M'Aulay was placed,
and tuning her clairshach, a small harp, about thirty inches in height, she accompanied it
with her voice. The air was an ancient Gaelic melody, and the words, which were supposed to
be very old, were in the same language; but we subjoin a translation of them, by Secundus Macpherson,
Esq. of Glenforgen, which, although submitted to the fetters of English rhythm, we trust will
be found nearly as genuine as the version of Ossian by his celebrated namesake.

     "Birds of omen dark and foul,
     Night-crow, raven, bat, and owl,
     Leave the sick man to his dream--
     All night long he heard your scream--
     Haste to cave and ruin'd tower,
     Ivy, tod, or dingled bower,
     There to wink and mope, for, hark!
     In the mid air sings the lark.

     "Hie to moorish gills and rocks,
     Prowling wolf and wily fox,--
     Hie you fast, nor turn your view,
     Though the lamb bleats to the ewe.
     Couch your trains, and speed your flight,
     Safety parts with parting night;
     And on distant echo borne,
     Comes the hunter's early horn.

     "The moon's wan crescent scarcely gleams,
     Ghost-like she fades in morning beams;
     Hie hence each peevish imp and fay,
     That scare the pilgrim on his way:--
     Quench, kelpy!  quench, in bog and fen,
     Thy torch that cheats benighted men;
     Thy dance is o'er, thy reign is done,
     For Benyieglo hath seen the sun.

     "Wild thoughts, that, sinful, dark, and deep,
     O'erpower the passive mind in sleep,
     Pass from the slumberer's soul away,
     Like night-mists from the brow of day:
     Foul hag, whose blasted visage grim
     Smothers the pulse, unnerves the limb,
     Spur thy dark palfrey, and begone!
     Thou darest not face the godlike sun."

As the strain proceeded, Allan M'Aulay gradually gave signs of recovering his presence of mind,
and attention to the objects around him. The deep-knit furrows of his brow relaxed and smoothed
themselves; and the rest of his features, which had seemed contorted with internal agony, relapsed
into a more natural state. When he raised his head and sat upright, his countenance, though
still deeply melancholy, was divested of its wildness and ferocity; and in its composed state,
although by no means handsome, the expression of his features was striking, manly, and even
noble. His thick, brown eyebrows, which had hitherto been drawn close together, were now slightly
separated, as in the natural state; and his grey eyes, which had rolled and flashed from under
them with an unnatural and portentous gleam, now recovered a steady and determined expression.

"Thank God!" he said, after sitting silent for about a minute, until the very last sounds of
the harp had ceased to vibrate, "my soul is no longer darkened--the mist hath passed from my
spirit."

"You owe thanks, cousin Allan," said Lord Menteith, coming forward, "to Annot Lyle, as well
as to heaven, for this happy change in your melancholy mood."

"My noble cousin Menteith," said Allan, rising and greeting him very respectfully, as well
as kindly, "has known my unhappy circumstances so long, that his goodness will require no excuse
for my being thus late in bidding him welcome to the castle."

"We are too old acquaintances, Allan," said Lord Menteith, "and too good friends, to stand
on the ceremonial of outward greeting; but half the Highlands will be here to-day, and you
know, with our mountain Chiefs, ceremony must not be neglected. What will you give little Annot
for making you fit company to meet Evan Dhu, and I know not how many bonnets and feathers?"

"What will he give me?" said Annot, smiling; "nothing less, I hope, than the best ribbon at
the Fair of Doune."

"The Fair of Doune, Annot?" said Allan sadly; "there will be bloody work before that day, and
I may never see it; but you have well reminded me of what I have long intended to do."

Having said this, he left the room.

"Should he talk long in this manner," said Lord Menteith, "you must keep your harp in tune,
my dear Annot."

"I hope not," said Annot, anxiously; "this fit has been a long one, and probably will not soon
return. It is fearful to see a mind, naturally generous and affectionate, afflicted by this
constitutional malady."

As she spoke in a low and confidential tone, Lord Menteith naturally drew close, and stooped
forward, that he might the better catch the sense of what she said. When Allan suddenly entered
the apartment, they as naturally drew back from each other with a manner expressive of consciousness,
as if surprised in a conversation which they wished to keep secret from him. This did not escape
Allan's observation; he stopt short at the door of the apartment--his brows were contracted--his
eyes rolled; but it was only the paroxysm of a moment. He passed his broad sinewy hand across
his brow, as if to obliterate these signs of emotion, and advanced towards Annot, holding in
his hand a very small box made of oakwood, curiously inlaid. "I take you to witness," he said,
"cousin Menteith, that I give this box and its contents to Annot Lyle. It contains a few ornaments
that belonged to my poor mother--of trifling value, you may guess, for the wife of a Highland
laird has seldom a rich jewel-casket."

"But these ornaments," said Annot Lyle, gently and timidly refusing the box, "belong to the
family--I cannot accept--"

"They belong to me alone, Annot," said Allan, interrupting her; "they were my mother's dying
bequest. They are all I can call my own, except my plaid and my claymore. Take them, therefore--they
are to me valueless trinkets--and keep them for my sake--should I never return from these wars."

So saying, he opened the case, and presented it to Annot. "If," said he, "they are of any value,
dispose of them for your own support, when this house has been consumed with hostile fire,
and can no longer afford you protection. But keep one ring in memory of Allan, who has done,
to requite your kindness, if not all he wished, at least all he could."

Annot Lyle endeavoured in vain to restrain the gathering tears, when she said, "ONE ring, Allan,
I will accept from you as a memorial of your goodness to a poor orphan, but do not press me
to take more; for I cannot, and will not, accept a gift of such disproportioned value."

"Make your choice, then," said Allan; "your delicacy may be well founded; the others will assume
a shape in which they may be more useful to you."

"Think not of it," said Annot, choosing from the contents of the casket a ring, apparently
the most trifling in value which it contained; "keep them for your own, or your brother's bride.--But,
good heavens!" she said, interrupting herself, and looking at the ring, "what is this that
I have chosen?"

Allan hastened to look upon it, with eyes of gloomy apprehension; it bore, in enamel, a death's
head above two crossed daggers. When Allan recognised the device, he uttered a sigh so deep,
that she dropped the ring from her hand, which rolled upon the floor. Lord Menteith picked
it up, and returned it to the terrified Annot.

"I take God to witness," said Allan, in a solemn tone, "that your hand, young lord, and not
mine, has again delivered to her this ill-omened gift. It was the mourning ring worn by my
mother in memorial of her murdered brother."

"I fear no omens," said Annot, smiling through her tears; "and nothing coming through the hands
of my two patrons," so she was wont to call Lord Menteith and Allan, "can bring bad luck to
the poor orphan."

She put the ring on her finger, and, turning to her harp, sung, to a lively air, the following
verses of one of the fashionable songs of the period, which had found its way, marked as it
was with the quaint hyperbolical taste of King Charles's time, from some court masque to the
wilds of Perthshire:--

     "Gaze not upon the stars, fond sage,
     In them no influence lies;
     To read the fate of youth or age,
     Look on my Helen's eyes.

     "Yet, rash astrologer, refrain!
     Too dearly would be won
     The prescience of another's pain,
     If purchased by thine own."

"She is right, Allan," said Lord Menteith; "and this end of an old song is worth all we shall
gain by our attempt to look into futurity."

"She is WRONG, my lord," said Allan, sternly, "though you, who treat with lightness the warnings
I have given you, may not live to see the event of the omen.--laugh not so scornfully," he
added, interrupting himself "or rather laugh on as loud and as long as you will; your term
of laughter will find a pause ere long."

"I care not for your visions, Allan," said Lord Menteith; "however short my span of life, the
eye of no Highland seer can see its termination."

"For heaven's sake," said Annot Lyle, interrupting him, "you know his nature, and how little
he can endure--"

"Fear me not," said Allan, interrupting her,--"my mind is now constant and calm.--But for you,
young lord," said he, turning to Lord Menteith, "my eye has sought you through fields of battle,
where Highlanders and Lowlanders lay strewed as thick as ever the rooks sat on those ancient
trees," pointing to a rookery which was seen from the window--"my eye sought you, but your
corpse was not there--my eye sought you among a train of unresisting and disarmed captives,
drawn up within the bounding walls of an ancient and rugged fortress;--flash after flash--platoon
after platoon--the hostile shot fell amongst them, They dropped like the dry leaves in autumn,
but you were not among their ranks;--scaffolds were prepared--blocks were arranged, saw-dust
was spread--the priest was ready with his book, the headsman with his axe--but there, too,
mine eye found you not."

"The gibbet, then, I suppose, must be my doom?" said Lord Menteith. "Yet I wish they had spared
me the halter, were it but for the dignity of the peerage."

He spoke this scornfully, yet not without a sort of curiosity, and a wish to receive an answer;
for the desire of prying into futurity frequently has some influence even on the minds of those
who disavow all belief in the possibility of such predictions.

"Your rank, my lord, will suffer no dishonour in your person, or by the manner of your death.
Three times have I seen a Highlander plant his dirk in your bosom--and such will be your fate."

"I wish you would describe him to me," said Lord Menteith, "and I shall save him the trouble
of fulfilling your prophecy, if his plaid be passible to sword or pistol."

"Your weapons," said Allan, "would avail you little; nor can I give you the information you
desire. The face of the vision has been ever averted from me."

"So be it then," said Lord Menteith, "and let it rest in the uncertainty in which your augury
has placed it. I shall dine not the less merrily among plaids, and dirks, and kilts to-day."

"It may be so," said Allan; "and, it may be, you do well to enjoy these moments, which to me
are poisoned by auguries of future evil. But I," he continued--"I repeat to you, that this
weapon--that is, such a weapon as this," touching the hilt of the dirk which he wore, "carries
your fate." "In the meanwhile," said Lord Menteith, "you, Allan, have frightened the blood
from the cheeks of Annot Lyle--let us leave this discourse, my friend, and go to see what we
both understand,--the progress of our military preparations."

They joined Angus M'Aulay and his English guests, and, in the military discussions which immediately
took place, Allan showed a clearness of mind, strength of judgment, and precision of thought,
totally inconsistent with the mystical light in which his character has been hitherto exhibited.

CHAPTER VII.

     When Albin her claymore indignantly draws,
     When her bonneted chieftains around her shall crowd,
     Clan-Ranald the dauntless, and Moray the proud,
     All plaided and plumed in their tartan array--LOCHEIL'S WARNING.

Whoever saw that morning, the Castle of Darnlinvarach, beheld a busy and a gallant sight.

The various Chiefs, arriving with their different retinues, which, notwithstanding their numbers,
formed no more than their usual equipage and body-guard upon occasions of solemnity, saluted
the lord of the castle and each other with overflowing kindness, or with haughty and distant
politeness, according to the circumstances of friendship or hostility in which their clans
had recently stood to each other. Each Chief, however small his comparative importance, showed
the full disposition to exact from the rest the deference due to a separate and independent
prince; while the stronger and more powerful, divided among themselves by recent contentions
or ancient feuds, were constrained in policy to use great deference to the feelings of their
less powerful brethren, in order, in case of need, to attach as many well-wishers as might
be to their own interest and standard. The few birds that frequented the reef were very shy, and
flew away at our approach: they were principally pelicans and terns.

June 20.

After weighing the next morning, we steered North 1/ 2 West, a course farther to seaward than
we had previously taken, in order to see the reefs more distinctly,
and to prove the width and extent of this part of the channel; but
the sun was shining in the direction of our course, and the shadows
of the clouds upon the water were at times so deceptious that, whilst
they often caused appearances of reefs where none existed, they concealed
others that, for the same reason, were not seen until we were close
to them.

Having now the charge of two merchant-vessels, it was necessary to proceed with caution, and therefore
we steered nearly over our last year's track, but notwithstanding, we now discovered several new
reefs, and informed ourselves of the extent and shape of others which had escaped our previous
observation.

As we were rounding the two islands that lie close to the south side of Lizard Island, a native
was seen in a canoe, paddling towards another who was sitting on the rocks watching our movements;
and, as we hauled round the south point of the bay, two others were observed walking towards the
beach; upon seeing us they stopped short and retreated up the hill; but, after we anchored
and sent a boat on shore, which was accompanied by one from the Dick, they advanced, and without
much hesitation, came forward and communicated with our party. They carried spears with them, and
each of our gentlemen had their fowling-pieces: the appearance of Bundell, who on these occasions
always took his clothes off, perhaps gave them greater confidence. After some vociferous and
unintelligible parley, one of our gentlemen, in order to give them further cause for the surprise
which they had already manifested to a great extent, unadvisedly
fired his fowling-piece; upon which, as might be expected, they became
distrustful and frightened, and, fixing their spears in their throwing
sticks, walked backwards at a quick pace, and withdrew altogether
towards the hills.

Lizard Island, and the Direction Isles to the south-westward, are of very different character
to the other islands which front this coast, being high, rising to peaks, and of granitic
formation. Captain Cook, in his description of Lizard Island, mentions it as being a good place
to refresh at, on account of its supplying both wood and water; but, at the same time we were
there, the latter was not found, although the rain had been lately falling in great quantity;
with the former, however, it is well supplied. This island, from its connection with Captain
Cook's misfortunes during his perilous navigation within the reefs, will always be an interesting
feature in the history of the discovery and examination of this coast, and deserves a more appropriate
appellation.

June 21.

Leaving Lizard Island the following morning, we directed our course for Cape Flinders, over
our last year's track. Upon passing Port Ninian, the sea was observed to break heavily upon the
Barrier Reefs, which in this part approach nearer to the mainland than at any other. As we doubled
Cape Melville, the wind, as usual, freshened up to a strong breeze,
and carried us rapidly across Bathurst Bay: to the westward of the
cape several natives were observed walking upon the beach.

In passing round Cape Flinders, there appeared to be a considerable diminution in the remains
of the Frederick's wreck. No vestige was left of her stern or forecastle, both of which were
before so very conspicuous. At half-past five o'clock we anchored with our companions near the usual
place.

June 22.

The following morning, at daybreak, a party of men went to the wreck to collect the spars and
planks that had escaped the mischievous fires of the natives; and at five o'clock I joined them
with the master of the Dick and Mr. Roe, ordering Mr. Bedwell to relieve the shore party with
some fresh hands at eight o'clock. When the time arrived, supposing that the relief-party had nearly
reached the shore, I sent the people over the hill, in order to be ready when the boat arrived
to go on board; and in the meantime amused myself in wandering about the reef near the wreck,
where Mr. Roe was also employed. Mr. Harrison (the master of the Dick) was at the further end
of the beach with his fowling piece, with two of his boat's crew picking up shells: when suddenly
they were surprised by hearing a loud shout, and seeing several spears strike the rocks about
them: upon looking round, Mr. Harrison found that a party of natives
were advancing upon him with their spears poised; upon which he presented
his gun at the foremost, but, from his having waded about in the water,
the powder had got damp and would not go off.

Immediately that I heard the shout of the natives, and saw Mr. Harrison retreating from the Indians,
who were in close pursuit, I hastened to his assistance, and came up in time to prevent them
from doing any mischief; and, by occasionally levelling my gun, kept them at bay whilst we retreated
towards the wreck, from which we were about half a mile distant. By this time Mr. Roe, who had
also heard the noise, joined; but, as he had not a gun, the only assistance he brought was an
addition to our number.

Among the four foremost of the natives was a mischievous boy, who, being emboldened by our not
firing, and showing an anxiety to get away from them, fixed his spear and aimed it at me; upon
which I fired my gun, but, as it was only loaded with small shot, it had no effect at the
distance he was from me; the noise, however, arrested their pursuit for a moment; and by the
time they recovered their surprise, I had reloaded with ball, but to my great mortification,
upon presenting the gun to deter the boy from throwing his spear again, it missed fire: the
weapon, which at first was aimed at me, was then thrown at one of the Dick's men, and, piercing
his hat, which he was carrying at his breast, fortunately, full of shells, only slightly wounded
one of his fingers. The man, who to all appearance was dangerously wounded, for the spear stuck
in the hat and hung suspended in the air, drew it out, and, throwing it on the ground with the greatest
composure, continued to retreat. The natives then finding we were not intimidated or hurt
by the spears, began to make friendly gestures, which we, of course, returned, but still continued
to walk away with our faces turned towards them.

We were now only four in number (for I had despatched one of the Dick's people to recall our boat,
and to order the crew over to our assistance) and being without any means, or show of defence, it
required much caution and management on our part to prevent their throwing any more spears; for
they were now within a few yards of us: their ferocity, however, began to diminish, as their
attention was taken by our clothes and a silk handkerchief which Mr. Roe held out to them:
they were about ten in number, of whom five or six were armed with spears. Our only safety
now was in letting them approach, and amusing them by a display of our silk handkerchiefs and
other parts of our dress, and making all the grimaces and monkey-like gestures we could think
of.

Among the natives was a young woman, whom they repeatedly offered to us by using the most significant
signs; which she also endeavoured to strengthen by appropriate gestures on her part; but our
inclinations were not consonant with the opportunity so pressingly, but so suspiciously, offered.
After our declining this honour, they occasionally laid their hands upon our clothes to detain
us, but it did not require much force to make them quit their hold. One of the men having
seized my gun, I drew it out of his hand rather roughly; but, accompanied at the same moment
with the friendly gesture of patting his breast, the recovery was happily effected without exciting
his anger.

In this manner, and with great fatigue, we continued our retreat across the reef, and reached
the wreck without any signs of our people coming to our assistance; when the natives found
we intended to walk round the point, they divided, and gave their spears to a party that went
over the hills, as it were, to cut us off; but in this intention, if they entertained it, they
were disappointed, for our boat was there, and the crew all embarked, ready to shove off,
little expecting ever to see us again. The idea of being thus easily deserted by our people
was for a moment mortifying, but I ordered some of the crew on shore, and by our numbers kept
the natives amused on the beach, while Mr. Harrison shoved off in his gig to give the alarm, and
to order some muskets to be sent for our protection: by the time,
however, that Mr. Bedwell arrived, we had succeeded in making friends
with the natives; who, upon perceiving that we had now in our turn
the superiority, began to draw away, and appeared to be as anxious
to get rid of us as we had been, half an hour before, to escape from
them; but we accompanied them halfway across the reef, watching an
opportunity to seize the boy who had wounded the Dick's man, whom
I intended to keep a prisoner while we were here, and then to dismiss
him with presents, to show that we were not inimical to them, although
angry at being so treacherously attacked.

My intention, however, was probably suspected, for they avoided our approaching sufficiently
near them to effect my purpose with the certainty of success, I therefore called our people
away to resume their work at the wreck, and, after leaving orders with Mr. Bedwell not to fire but
in self-defence, and if an opportunity offered, to seize the boy, went on board with the party
to breakfast.

I had not, however, left the shore long before hostilities again commenced, and several shots
were mischievously fired at the natives by some of the Dick's and San Antonio's people, who,
being advanced, had very improperly endeavoured to cut off three of them, upon which one of
the natives poised his spear with a threat of throwing it, when several muskets were fired at these
miserable wretches, who, fortunately for them, got clear off; although one of them by his limping
appeared to have been struck in the leg.

After this we saw nothing more of them for the day. Mr. Bedwell was employed with his party at
the wreck, whilst Mr. Cunningham traversed the hills in the vicinity, for it was not safe
to trust himself at any distance from our people, since the natives would not have failed,
had they met with an opportunity, to punish us for our broken faith.

June 23.

The following day, on the return of our people from the wreck, they
reported that the natives had shown themselves on the opposite side
of the bay; I therefore went to the shore with Mr. Harrison, to endeavour
to make peace, but saw no signs of them, excepting a smoke on the
next island, to which they had probably retired.

On the following day they were again seen, and fired upon by the
boat's crew of the Dick.

All these events gave me much concern, not only because the natives
may be induced to attack and take revenge upon strangers who may subsequently
pass this way, but also because they must have imbibed a very poor
idea of the effect of our arms, when so many muskets were fired without
doing them any mischief: and, but for the sake of humanity, I could
almost have wished that one had been killed.

The day after we arrived here, a boat from the San Antonio conveyed Mr. Montgomery and Mr.
Cunningham to Clack's Island. I found simply the plants of the main, namely, Mimusops parvifolia,
Br.; Hoya nivea, Cunningham manuscript; Acacia plectocarpa, Cunningham manuscript; Chionanthus
axillaris, Br.; Notelaea punctata, Br.; some alyxiae, and the small
orange-fruited ficus, which grew in the thickets, and, by insinuating
its roots in the interstices of the rocks, clothed a great portion
of the inaccessible front of the island.

(Cunningham manuscript.)* (* Footnote.

Similar representations were found by Mr. White, carved on stone in the neighbourhood of Port Jackson.
White's Journal quarto page 141.) June 25.

Having procured all the spars and planks from the wreck that could
be useful to us, we made preparations to sail, and at daylight, the
25th, got underweigh with my two companions, and resumed our course
to the northward, over that of last year, excepting that we steered
inside of Pelican Island, and to leeward of Island 4.

We passed several large sting-rays asleep on the surface of the sea,
which our people ineffectually endeavoured to harpoon. On the former
island large flights of pelicans were seen, and upon the sandbank,
to the southward of it, there was a flock of two or three hundred young
birds.

The breeze not being sufficient to carry us to Night Island before dark, the anchor was dropped in
eleven fathoms muddy bottom, two miles to the eastward of Island 8.

The Dick and San Antonio anchored close to us. During the night we had a fresh breeze from South-East
by East, and, not having any island or reef to shelter us from the
swell, we were obliged to drop a second anchor to retain our position.

The San Antonio drove for some distance, but the Dick rode through the night without driving, although
she had but forty fathoms of cable out. June 26. On weighing the next morning, we made sail to
the North by West, but, from the compass-box not being quite straight in the binnacle, we made
a North by West 1/ 2 West course, which was not discovered until we had
nearly paid dear for our neglect; for we passed close to a rock which
I intended to have gone at least a mile to windward of.

It was seen just in time to put the helm a-lee, or we should have run upon it. The weather was
now so thick that we could not see a mile around us; we were therefore
obliged to follow our former courses, to avoid the risk of running
over a strange track in such unfavourable weather.

At sunset we anchored under the lee of Piper's Islets.

June 27. The next day we anchored under Sunday Island in Margaret Bay, at about half a mile from the
sandy beach, on its north-west side. Here we were detained by bad weather until the 30th. June 30.
When, with some slight appearance of improvement, and tired of losing so much time, we weighed
and proceeded on our course. After passing the Bird Isles, thick weather again set in, with constant
rain, and a strong breeze from South-East.

Upon reaching Cairncross Island, under which it was my intention to anchor, the sails were reduced;
and, as we were in the act of letting go the anchor, Mr. Roe, who was at the masthead holding thoughtlessly
by the fore-topmast staysail-halyards, whilst the sail was being
hauled down, was precipitated from a height of fifty feet, and fell
senseless on the deck.

We were now close to the reef; and, in the hurry and confusion attending
the accident, and the Dick at the same time luffing up under our stern,
the anchor was dropped, without my ascertaining the quality of the
bottom, which was afterwards found to be of a very questionable nature.

The Dick, having dropped her anchor within forty yards of us, was lying so close as to prevent our veering
more cable than sixty fathoms, but as we appeared to ride tolerably
easy with a sheer to starboard, while the Dick rode on the opposite
sheer, we remained as we were: to prevent accident, the yards were
braced so that we should cast clear of the Dick if we parted, a precaution
which was most happily taken.

As soon as the distressing accident that had occurred was known on
board the Dick, Dr. Armstrong, a surgeon of the navy and a passenger
in that ship, hastened on board to assist Mr. Montgomery in dressing
Mr. Roe's hurt, which I found, to my inexpressible satisfaction, was
not so grievous as might have been expected: his fall was, most providentially,
broken twice; first by the spritsail brace, and secondly by some planks
from the Frederick's wreck, which had fortunately been placed across
the forecastle bulwark over the cat-heads: his head struck the edge
of the plank and broke his fall, but it cut a very deep wound over
the right temple.

This unfortunate event threatened to deprive me of his very valuable
assistance for some time, a loss I could but very ill spare, particularly
when upon the point of returning to the examination of so intricate
a coast as that part where we last left off.

At six o'clock in the evening the flood-tide began to set to leeward, and as night approached the
appearance of the weather became very threatening, accompanied by a descent of the mercury; this
gave me a very unfavourable idea of our situation: the wind was blowing clear of the reef,
and raised a heavy sea; and the Dick was so close to us that we dared not veer cable, for
fear of getting on board of her, which must have happened if either ship should break her sheer. At half-past
ten o'clock, during a very heavy squall, the cable parted, but from the precaution above-mentioned,
the brig happily drifted with her head to starboard, and passed clear
both of the Dick and San Antonio; the chain-cabled anchor was then
dropped, and veered to ninety fathoms, which brought her up in fifteen
fathoms, mud; in which birth she appeared to ride much easier than
before.

I was now very anxious about the lost anchor; and, having expressed a wish to inform Mr. Harrison
of our situation, and to request him to recover our anchor in the morning if the weather would permit,
Mr. Bedwell volunteered to go on board her; which, although a service
of danger, was, if possible to be effected, absolutely necessary.

The
boat was lowered, and they shoved off, but as the crew were unable to pull it ahead, I called
her on board again, which was most fortunate; for shortly afterwards the chain-cable parted also,
and the brig drove with her head towards the shore. 1821. July 1. We had now the prospect of
being obliged to keep under sail during the remainder of the night. An attempt was made to veer, in
order that, by laying to with her head off shore, we might have time
to recover the cable, without endangering the security of the vessel;
but, from the weight of the chain at the bow, this manoeuvre could
not be effected; fearing, therefore, to drift any more to the westward,
in which direction we were making rapid way, I was under the necessity
of slipping the chain, by which we lost one hundred fathoms of cable,
which we could but badly spare: being now freed from the impediment,
the brig's head was placed off shore; and after making sail, we fired
several muskets and showed lights, as signals to the Dick, who, it
afterwards appeared, kept a light up for our guidance; but the weather
was so squally and thick, with almost constant rain, that it was not
seen by us.

It was half-past twelve o'clock when we made sail to the North-East by East, deepening from fourteen
to sixteen fathoms, and when the hillocky summit of Cairncross Island bore South by West, beyond
which bearing we did not know how far we could proceed with safety; we tacked to the South-South-West,
and proceeded in that direction until the island bore South, when we were in fourteen fathoms. Having
thus ascertained the depth of this space, which was about three miles in extent, it was occupied
during the remainder of the night; which, being very dark and squally,
was passed by us in the greatest anxiety. At day-dawn we were joined by
our companions, and, as it was not possible from the state of the
weather to regain the anchors we had lost, made sail towards Turtle
Island, on our way to which we passed Escape River: both of these
places reminded us of former perils, but the recollection of our providential
preservation on those occasions, as well as on many others during
our former voyages, increased the grateful feelings which we now felt
for our safety and protection during the last night, the anxieties
and circumstances of which can never be obliterated from our minds.

Our course was directed entirely by the chart I had previously formed; for the weather was so
thick that for the greater part of the way no land could be seen to guide us: by noon we had passed
between Cape York and Mount Adolphus, and in a short time rounded
the north end of Wednesday Island, and were steering between it and
the North-West Reef.

After passing the rock off Hammond's Island, we steered West by South 1/ 2 South, but were obliged
to haul up South-West by West to pass to the southward of a small shoal, some part of which was
uncovered (the time of tide being nearly low water, spring tide): this shoal lies in a North 50
degrees West direction, from the low rocky ledge off the north end of Good's Island, and is distant
from it about a mile and a half.

The Dick being a little to leeward of our track, had four fathoms; but the least we had was five and three-quarters.
This reef is not noticed in Captain Flinders'chart: at high water, or
even at half ebb, it is very dangerous, from its lying in the direct
track; but, by hauling over to the south shore, may be easily avoided.
At four o'clock we passed Booby Island, and steered West by South
across the Gulf of Carpentaria.

July 3. Between Booby Island and Cape Wessel, which we passed in sight of on the 3rd, we had thick
gloomy weather, with the wind between South and East-South-East; and, after rounding the Cape had some
heavy rain, in which the mercury, having previously fallen to 29.91, rose to 29.95 inches. Lightning
from the east and west accompanied the rain, but the wind was steady, and did not freshen or
lull during the showers. July 5. On the 5th, at daylight, Goulburn Islands were seen, and at nine o'clock
we passed through the strait that divides them; our track being half
a mile more to the northward than that of last year, we had more regular
soundings.

As soon as we anchored in South-West Bay, I sent on shore to examine
our former watering-place, but found that the stream had failed.

The parched up appearance of the island showed that the last had been an unusually dry season;
every place that, even in the month of August, six weeks later, had before yielded large quantities,
as well as the lagoon behind the beach, which, from the nature of
the plants growing in it, was conjectured to be a never-failing supply,
was now dried up. July 6 to 8. The next morning the brig's boat went
over to Sims Island with Mr. Cunningham, and there found a small quantity
of water, sufficient, according to Mr. Hemmans'report, for all our
wants. The next morning (7th) he moved the San Antonio over to the
island, and anchoring her off the sandy beach, landed his people to
dig holes.

The Captain's lecture upon tactics was here suddenly interrupted by Allan M'Aulay, who said,
hastily,--"Room for an unexpected and unwelcome guest!"

At the same moment, the door of the hall opened, and a grey-haired man, of a very stately appearance,
presented himself to the assembly. There was much dignity, and even authority, in his manner.
His stature was above the common size, and his looks such as were used to command. He cast
a severe, and almost stern glance upon the assembly of Chiefs. Those of the higher rank among
them returned it with scornful indifference; but some of the western gentlemen of inferior
power, looked as if they wished themselves elsewhere.

"To which of this assembly," said the stranger, "am I to address myself as leader? or have
you not fixed upon the person who is to hold an office at least as perilous as it is honourable?"

"Address yourself to me, Sir Duncan Campbell," said Montrose, stepping forward.

"To you!" said Sir Duncan Campbell, with some scorn.

"Yes,--to me," repeated Montrose,--"to the Earl of Montrose, if you have forgot him."

"I should now, at least," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "have had some difficulty in recognising
him in the disguise of a groom.--and yet I might have guessed that no evil influence inferior
to your lordship's, distinguished as one who troubles Israel, could have collected together
this rash assembly of misguided persons."

"I will answer unto you," said Montrose, "in the manner of your own Puritans. I have not troubled
Israel, but thou and thy father's house. But let us leave an altercation, which is of little
consequence but to ourselves, and hear the tidings you have brought from your Chief of Argyle;
for I must conclude that it is in his name that you have come to this meeting."

"It is in the name of the Marquis of Argyle," said Sir Duncan Campbell,--"in the name of the
Scottish Convention of Estates, that I demand to know the meaning of this singular convocation.
If it is designed to disturb the peace of the country, it were but acting like neighbours,
and men of honour, to give us some intimation to stand upon our guard."

"It is a singular, and new state of affairs in Scotland," said Montrose, turning from Sir Duncan
Campbell to the assembly, "when Scottish men of rank and family cannot meet in the house of
a common friend without an inquisitorial visit and demand, on the part of our rulers, to know
the subject of our conference. Methinks our ancestors were accustomed to hold Highland huntings,
or other purposes of meeting, without asking the leave either of the great M'Callum More himself,
or any of his emissaries or dependents."

"The times have been such in Scotland," answered one of the Western Chiefs, "and such they
will again be, when the intruders on our ancient possessions are again reduced to be Lairds
of Lochow instead of overspreading us like a band of devouring locusts."

"Am I to understand, then," said Sir Duncan, "that it is against my name alone that these preparations
are directed? or are the race of Diarmid only to be sufferers in common with the whole of the
peaceful and orderly inhabitants of Scotland?"

"I would ask," said a wild-looking Chief, starting hastily up, "one question of the Knight
of Ardenvohr, ere he proceeds farther in his daring catechism.--Has he brought more than one
life to this castle, that he ventures to intrude among us for the purposes of insult?"

"Gentlemen," said Montrose, "let me implore your patience; a messenger who comes among us for
the purpose of embassy, is entitled to freedom of speech and safe-conduct. And since Sir Duncan
Campbell is so pressing, I care not if I inform him, for his guidance, that he is in an assembly
of the King's loyal subjects, convoked by me, in his Majesty's name and authority, and as empowered
by his Majesty's royal commission."

"We are to have, then, I presume," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "a civil war in all its forms?
I have been too long a soldier to view its approach with anxiety; but it would have been for
my Lord of Montrose's honour, if, in this matter, he had consulted his own ambition less, and
the peace of the country more."

"Those consulted their own ambition and self-interest, Sir Duncan," answered Montrose, "who
brought the country to the pass in which it now stands, and rendered necessary the sharp remedies
which we are now reluctantly about to use."

"And what rank among these self-seekers," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "we shall assign to a noble
Earl, so violently attached to the Covenant, that he was the first, in 1639, to cross the Tyne,
wading middle deep at the head of his regiment, to charge the royal forces? It was the same,
I think, who imposed the Covenant upon the burgesses and colleges of Aberdeen, at the point
of sword and pike."

"I understand your sneer, Sir Duncan," said Montrose, temperately; "and I can only add, that
if sincere repentance can make amends for youthful error, and for yielding to the artful representation
of ambitious hypocrites, I shall be pardoned for the crimes with which you taunt me. I will
at least endeavour to deserve forgiveness, for I am here, with my sword in my hand, willing
to spend the best blood of my body to make amends for my error; and mortal man can do no more."

"Well, my lord," said Sir Duncan, "I shall be sorry to carry back this language to the Marquis
of Argyle. I had it in farther charge from the Marquis, that, to prevent the bloody feuds which
must necessarily follow a Highland war, his lordship will be contented if terms of truce could
be arranged to the north of the Highland line, as there is ground enough in Scotland to fight
upon, without neighbours destroying each other's families and inheritances."

"It is a peaceful proposal," said Montrose, smiling, "such as it should be, coming from one
whose personal actions have always been more peaceful than his measures. Yet, if the terms
of such a truce could be equally fixed, and if we can obtain security, for that, Sir Duncan,
is indispensable,--that your Marquis will observe these terms with strict fidelity, I, for
my part, should be content to leave peace behind us, since we must needs carry war before us.
But, Sir Duncan, you are too old and experienced a soldier for us to permit you to remain in
our leaguer, and witness our proceedings; we shall therefore, when you have refreshed yourself,
recommend your speedy return to Inverary, and we shall send with you a gentleman on our part
to adjust the terms of the Highland armistice, in case the Marquis shall be found serious in
proposing such a measure." Sir Duncan Campbell assented by a bow.

"My Lord of Menteith," continued Montrose, "will you have the goodness to attend Sir Duncan
Campbell of Ardenvohr, while we determine who shall return with him to his Chief? M'Aulay will
permit us to request that he be entertained with suitable hospitality."

"I will give orders for that," said Allan M'Aulay, rising and coming forward. "I love Sir Duncan
Campbell; we have been joint sufferers in former days, and I do not forget it now."

"My Lord of Menteith," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "I am grieved to see you, at your early age,
engaged in such desperate and rebellious courses."

"I am young," answered Menteith, "yet old enough to distinguish between right and wrong, between
loyalty and rebellion; and the sooner a good course is begun, the longer and the better have
I a chance of running it."

"And you too, my friend, Allan M'Aulay," said Sir Duncan, taking his hand, "must we also call
each other enemies, that have been so often allied against a common foe?" I found it on all occasions
extremely sensible, and very often to predict a change of wind much
sooner than the barometer.

Fahrenheit's
thermometer ranged between 64 and 74 degrees, but the usual extremes
were between 66 and 70 degrees.

1822.
January 1.

During the day of the 1st of January the depth of the bar was frequently sounded but as there was
not more than ten feet and a half water upon it we were necessarily
detained at the anchorage.

January 2.

On the following morning also at four o'clock the depth was the same; but at ten o'clock the water
rose suddenly eighteen inches, upon which the anchors were lifted and the brig warped over the bar
to an anchorage in three and a half fathoms off the outer watering-place, to await a favourable
opportunity of going over to Seal Island; near which it was intended
to anchor in order to refit the rigging and otherwise prepare the
vessel for our voyage up the west coast.

In the afternoon we procured a load of water and permitted the natives,
thirteen of whom were assembled, to pay us another visit.

On their coming on board it was noticed that many of them belonged to the tribe that lived
on the opposite shore, but how they had crossed over was not satisfactorily ascertained. Their
wonder on this their last visit was much raised by our firing off a nine-pounder loaded with
shot, the splash of which in the water caused the greatest astonishment, and one of them was extremely
vehement and noisy in explaining it to his companions. Upon repeating this exhibition they paid particular
attention to the operation of loading the gun, and expressed the greatest surprise at the weight
of the ball, upon which, after they had all severally examined it, they held a long and wordy
argument as to what it possibly could be. After this they were sent
on shore.

January 3.

At daybreak the next morning an opportunity offered to cross the sound, and by eight o'clock
the brig was anchored under Seal Island; upon which we commenced
the repair of the rigging, and in the course of the day shifted the
main topmast.

We had left the anchorage on the other side of the sound too early for our friends the natives,
who had promised last evening to bring us a hawk's nest that was built upon a rock near the watering-place;
at ten o'clock a very large fire was perceived close to the nest; it was no doubt kindled by them,
and meant to show that they were not inattentive to their promise.

January 4.

The following day some natives were seen about a mile off upon the
beach but did not come near the vessel.

Mr. Cunningham botanised upon the summit of Bald Head. Of this excursion he gave me the following
account: "Upon reaching the summit of the ridge, and clearing a rocky gully which intersected
our track, we instantly entered an elevated valley of pure white sand, bounded on either side
by ridges forty feet high, that were in themselves totally bare, excepting on the tops, where
a thin clothing of shrubs was remarked; the whole surface reflected
a heat scarcely supportable, and the air was so stagnant as scarcely
to be respired, although we were at a considerable elevation, and
in the vicinity of a constant current of pure atmospheric air on the
ridge.

After traversing the whole length of this sandy vale, which is one-third of a mile in extent,
in our route towards Bald Head, with scarcely a plant to attract our attention, we perceived
at its extremity some remarkably fine specimens of Candollea cuneiformis,
Labil., which had, in spite of the poverty and looseness of the drifting
sand, risen to large spreading trees, sixteen feet high, of robust
growth and habit; they were at this time covered with flowers and
ripe fruit; but so painful was it to the eyes and senses to remain
for a moment stationary in this heated valley, that whilst I gathered
a quantity of the seeds of this truly rich plant, my servant was obliged
to hurry away to a cooler air on the ridge, which we had again nearly
reached; and but for this fine plant, and the no less conspicuous
blue-flowered Scaevola nitida, Br. The whole scene would have deeply
impressed us with all the horrors that such extremes of aridity are
naturally calculated to excite."

Upon again reaching the ridge, whose moderated temperature required our care to avoid suffering
from the sudden transition, we came to the granite, on whose bare surface I found a prostrate
specimen of baeckea, remarkable for the regularity of its decussate
leaves, which I have designated in my list as Baeckea saxicola.

Continuing to the extremity of the ridge, I was much surprised to find we had already attained
the highest point of the range, and to observe another expanse, or extensive cavity, of bare
white sand below us, to the South-East, the termination of which we afterwards found to be
the Bald Head, of Captain Vancouver. This part is of remarkable appearance from seaward, having
on either side of its bare sandy summit a contrasting brushy vegetation:
from the sea however a very small part only of its extensive surface
of sand can be perceived, the greater part being only observable from
the commanding hillocks we had with much exertion arrived at.

A calcareous rock (affording evidently a very considerable portion of pure lime) was seen in a decomposing
state piercing the sandy surface of all parts of the ridge about Bald Head which, however, is itself
a pure granite; the dense low brushy wood in its vicinity is chiefly composed of the delicate
baeckea.

"* (* Footnote.

Cunningham manuscripts.) In the evening we visited Seal Island, and killed five seals for the sake
of their skins, which were serviceable for the rigging; the boat's
crew also found some penguins (Aptenodytes minor) and a nest of iguanas.

The bottle deposited here at our last visit in 1818 was found suspended where it had been left
and brought on board, when another memorandum was enclosed in it,
containing a notification of our present visit, of the friendly and
communicative disposition of the natives, and a copy of the vocabulary
of their language.

January 5.

On the 5th in the afternoon on our return to the vessel, after visiting the shore and landing upon
the flat rock, which is merely a bare mass of granite, of about thirty yards in diameter,
some natives were heard calling to us, and upon our pulling to the part whence the sound came,
we found two men and a boy. After some time they were discovered to be three of our Oyster-Harbour
friends, and therefore we made no hesitation of communicating with them, and of taking them on board,
where they were regaled upon the flesh of the seals we had killed
at the island.

Notwithstanding the friendly disposition of the inhabitants of this sound, I felt it necessary
to act very cautiously in our communication with them, in order to avoid any misunderstanding.
And that this might not even be accidentally done, I requested Mr.
Cunningham to confine his walks to the vicinity of the vessel, and
particularly to avoid any route that would take him towards their
encampment.

He was therefore prevented from visiting many parts near which he had promised himself much
amusement and information in botanizing, particularly the neighbourhood of Bayonet Head, and the
distant parts of Oyster Harbour.

At our former visit to this place he had searched in vain for that curious little plant Cephalotus
follicularis, Br.,* but on this occasion he was more fortunate, for he found it in the greatest
profusion in the vicinity of the stream that empties itself over
the beach of the outer bay where we watered.

Of this he says:" The plants of cephalotus were all in a very weak state, and none in any
stage of fructification: the ascidia, or pitchers, which are inserted on strong foot-stalks,
and intermixed about the root with the leaves, all contained a quantity of discoloured water,
and, in some, the drowned bodies of ants and other small insects. Whether this fluid can be
considered a secretion of the plant, as appears really to be the fact with reference to the nepenthes,
or pitcher-plant of India,** deposited by it through its vessels
into the pitchers; or even a secretion of the ascidia themselves;
or whether it is not simply rainwater lodged in these reservoirs,
as a provision from which the plant might derive support in seasons
of protracted drought, when those marshy lands (in which this vegetable
is alone to be found) are partially dried of the moisture that is
indispensable to its existence, may perhaps be presumed by the following
observations.

The opercula, shaped like some species of oyster, or escalop-shells, I found in some pitchers
to be very closely shut upon their orifices, although their cavities, upon examination, contained
but very little water, and the state of the weather was exceedingly cloudy, and at intervals
showery; if, therefore, the appendages are really cisterns, to receive an elemental fluid for the
nourishment of the plant in times of drought, it is natural to suppose that this circumstance
would operate upon the ramified vessels of the lids, so as to draw
them up, and allow the rain to replenish the pitchers.

Mr. Brown also, who had an opportunity in 1801 of examining plants fully grown, supposes it probable
that the vertical or horizontal positions in which the opercula were remarked, are determined
by the state of the atmosphere, at the same time that he thinks it possible that the fluid may
be a secretion of the plant. The several dead insects that were observed within the vases of
cephalotus were very possibly deposited there by an insect of prey, since I detected a slender-bodied
fly (ichneumon) within a closed pitcher, having evidently forced its passage under the lid to
the interior, where an abundant store of putrescent insects were collected. Whilst, therefore,
these pitchers are answering the double purpose, of being a reservoir to retain a fluid, however
produced, for the nourishment of the plant in the exigency of a dry season, as also a repository
of food for rapacious insects, as in sarracenia, or the American
pitcher-plant; it is also probable that the air, disengaged by these
drowned ants, may be important and beneficial to the life of the Australian
plant, as Sir James E. Smith has suggested, in respect to the last-mentioned
genus, wild in the swamp of Georgia and Carolina.

(* Footnote. Flinders volume 1 page 64 and Brown's General Remarks in Flinders volume 2 page
601 et seq.) (** Footnote.

Smith's Introduction to Botany page 150.) "I spent much time in a
fruitless search for flowering specimens of cephalotus; all the plants
were very small and weak, and showed no disposition to produce flowers
at the season, and none had more than three or four ascidia."* (*
Footnote.

Cunningham manuscripts.) The only edible plants that Mr. Cunningham found were a creeping parsley
(Apium prostratum, Labil.) and a species of orach (Atriplex halimus, Brown)
the latter was used by us every day, boiled with salt provisions,
and proved a tolerable substitute for spinach or greens.

During our visit we caught but very few fish, and only a few oysters
were obtained, on account of the banks being seldom uncovered, and
the presence of the natives which prevented my trusting the people
out of my sight for fear of a quarrel.

Shellfish of other sorts were obtained at Mistaken Island in abundance,
of which the most common were a patella and an haliotis; the inhabitant
of the former made a coarse, although a savoury dish.

There were also varieties of the following genera: namely, lepas, chiton,
cardium, pinna, nerita, two or three species of ostrea, a small mytilus,
and a small buccinum of great beauty; that covered the rocks and at low
water might be collected in abundance. 1822. January 6.

We sailed from King George's Sound on the 6th. January 8. But from south-westerly winds, were
no further advanced by the 8th than the meridian of Cape Chatham. After
which, entering a current setting at one mile an hour to the westward,
the brig made considerable progress.

January 10. At daylight, 10th, Cape Leeuwin came in sight from the masthead, and at eight o'clock
was seen from the deck at the distance of ten leagues, bearing North
42 degrees East by compass.

At this, the south-westernmost extremity of New Holland, Captain
Flinders commenced his examination of the south coast, but saw no
part to the northward. The French expedition under Captain Baudin
were upon this part at two different periods of their voyage, and
it appears from an examination of their tracks that the coast between
Capes Leeuwin and Peron, the latter of which is about five leagues
to the southward of the entrance of Swan River, has been sufficiently
examined by them.

     

They landed in several parts of Geographe Bay which affords a shelter
from southerly winds but is so exposed to those between North and
West-North-West that the French ships ran great danger of being shipwrecked
during a gale from that quarter.

The coast is sandy, and from M. Peron's description, barren and unprofitable.

With the exception of the Recif du Naturaliste which lies about five
leagues to the north of the Cape of that name there seems to be no
danger in the vicinity of the bay.

The small inlet of Port Leschenault is only the embouchure of a salt-marsh;
it is scarcely attainable even by boats; for there appears to be
only three feet water on the bar, and over and within it not more
than fifteen feet.

The French found no fresh water in any part of Geographe Bay. From Port Leschenault to Cape Peron the coast
is low and sandy but inland it is of a moderate height and appears
to be furnished with a slight vegetation.

The French ships sailed along this coast at the distance of four
or five miles from the beach, and the report made by them is sufficiently
in detail for all the purposes of navigation.

Swan River and Rottnest Island had been already carefully examined by the French; but from the
latter island to the North-west Cape, with the exception of Shark's
Bay, they saw very little of the coast, and have given its outline
principally from Van Keulen.* (* Footnote.

Freycinet page 441.) At noon on the 10th our latitude was 34 degrees 16 minutes 14 seconds, and a large
bare, sandy patch upon the land, the Tache Blanche remarquable of Captain Baudin, bore North 77
degrees East (magnetic). At six o'clock in the evening we passed Cape Naturaliste, having experienced
a strong current setting North 11 degrees West, at nearly two miles per hour; hence we steered
to the northward, but it was dark when we passed near the position assigned to the Recif Naturaliste:
after steering on for three hours longer we edged in for the land and at ten o'clock hauled
to the wind for the night. January 11. The next day at noon we were in latitude 32 degrees 36
minutes 2 seconds, having the land about Cape Peron in sight from
the masthead, bearing East by South 1/ 2 South; but during the day
the wind was so light that we had not approached it within four leagues
by sunset.

At this time the coast was visible as far as Cape Bouvard between which and Cape Peron it is low
and sandy, but the hills appeared to be tolerably well wooded, and
of a moderate height.

"Pity," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "that you cannot add to this panegyric the farther epithets
of the most steady, and the most consistent. But I have no purpose of debating these points
with you, my lord," waving his hand, as if to avoid farther discussion; "the die is cast with
you; allow me only to express my sorrow for the disastrous fate to which Angus M'Aulay's natural
rashness, and your lordship's influence, are dragging my gallant friend Allan here, with his
father's clan, and many a brave man besides."

"The die is cast for us all, Sir Duncan," replied Allan, looking gloomy, and arguing on his
own hypochondriac feelings; "the iron hand of destiny branded our fate upon our forehead long
ere we could form a wish, or raise a finger in our own behalf. Were this otherwise, by what
means does the Seer ascertain the future from those shadowy presages which haunt his waking
and his sleeping eye? Nought can be foreseen but that which is certain to happen."

Sir Duncan Campbell was about to reply, and the darkest and most contested point of metaphysics
might have been brought into discussion betwixt two Highland disputants, when the door opened,
and Annot Lyle, with her clairshach in her hand, entered the apartment. The freedom of a Highland
maiden was in her step and in her eye; for, bred up in the closest intimacy with the Laird
of M'Aulay and his brother, with Lord Menteith, and other young men who frequented Darnlinvarach,
she possessed none of that timidity which a female, educated chiefly among her own sex, would
either have felt, or thought necessary to assume, on an occasion like the present.

Her dress partook of the antique, for new fashions seldom penetrated into the Highlands, nor
would they easily have found their way to a castle inhabited chiefly by men, whose sole occupation
was war and the chase. Yet Annot's garments were not only becoming, but even rich. Her open
jacket, with a high collar, was composed of blue cloth, richly embroidered, and had silver
clasps to fasten, when it pleased the wearer. Its sleeves, which were wide, came no lower than
the elbow, and terminated in a golden fringe; under this upper coat, if it can be so termed,
she wore an under dress of blue satin, also richly embroidered, but which was several shades
lighter in colour than the upper garment. The petticoat was formed of tartan silk, in the sett,
or pattern, of which the colour of blue greatly predominated, so as to remove the tawdry effect
too frequently produced in tartan, by the mixture and strong opposition of colours. An antique
silver chain hung round her neck, and supported the WREST, or key, with which she turned her
instrument. A small ruff rose above her collar, and was secured by a brooch of some value,
an old keepsake from Lord Menteith. Her profusion of light hair almost hid her laughing eyes,
while, with a smile and a blush, she mentioned that she had M'Aulay's directions to ask them
if they chose music. Sir Duncan Campbell gazed with considerable surprise and interest at the
lovely apparition, which thus interrupted his debate with Allan M'Aulay.

"Can this," he said to him in a whisper, "a creature so beautiful and so elegant, be a domestic
musician of your brother's establishment?"

"By no means," answered Allan, hastily, yet with some hesitation; "she is a--a--near relation
of our family--and treated," he added, more firmly, "as an adopted daughter of our father's house."

As he spoke thus, he arose from his seat, and with that air of courtesy which every Highlander
can assume when it suits him to practise it, he resigned it to Annot, and offered to her, at
the same time, whatever refreshments the table afforded, with an assiduity which was probably
designed to give Sir Duncan an impression of her rank and consequence. If such was Allan's
purpose, however, it was unnecessary. Sir Duncan kept his eyes fixed upon Annot with an expression
of much deeper interest than could have arisen from any impression that she was a person of
consequence. Annot even felt embarrassed under the old knight's steady gaze; and it was not
without considerable hesitation, that, tuning her instrument, and receiving an assenting look
from Lord Menteith and Allan, she executed the following ballad, which our friend, Mr. Secundus
M'Pherson, whose goodness we had before to acknowledge, has thus translated into the English
tongue:

THE ORPHAN MAID.

     November's hail-cloud drifts away,
     November's sunbeam wan
     Looks coldly on the castle grey,
     When forth comes Lady Anne.

     The orphan by the oak was set,
     Her arms, her feet, were bare,
     The hail-drops had not melted yet,
     Amid her raven hair.

     "And, Dame," she said, "by all the ties
     That child and mother know,
     Aid one who never knew these joys,
     Relieve an orphan's woe."

     The Lady said, "An orphan's state
     Is hard and sad to bear;
     Yet worse the widow'd mother's fate,
     Who mourns both lord and heir.

     "Twelve times the rolling year has sped,
     Since, when from vengeance wild
     Of fierce Strathallan's Chief I fled,
     Forth's eddies whelm'd my child."

     "Twelve times the year its course has born,"
     The wandering maid replied,
     "Since fishers on St. Bridget's morn
     Drew nets on Campsie side.

     "St. Bridget sent no scaly spoil;--
     An infant, wellnigh dead,
     They saved, and rear'd in want and toil,
     To beg from you her bread."

     That orphan maid the lady kiss'd--
     "My husband's looks you bear;
     St. Bridget and her morn be bless'd!
     You are his widow's heir."

     They've robed that maid, so poor and pale,
     In silk and sandals rare;
     And pearls, for drops of frozen hail,
     Are glistening in her hair.

The admirers of pure Celtic antiquity, notwithstanding the elegance of the above translation,
may be desirous to see a literal version from the original Gaelic, which we therefore subjoin;
and have only to add, that the original is deposited with Mr. Jedediah Cleishbotham.

LITERAL TRANSLATION.

     The hail-blast had drifted away upon the wings of the gale
     of autumn.  The sun looked from between the clouds, pale as
     the wounded hero who rears his head feebly on the heath when
     the roar of battle hath passed over him.

     Finele, the Lady of the Castle, came forth to see her
     maidens pass to the herds with their leglins [Milk-pails].

     There sat an orphan maiden beneath the old oak-tree of
     appointment.  The withered leaves fell around her, and her
     heart was more withered than they.

     The parent of the ice [poetically taken from the frost]
     still congealed the hail-drops in her hair; they were like
     the specks of white ashes on the twisted boughs of the
     blackened and half-consumed oak that blazes in the hall.

     And the maiden said, "Give me comfort, Lady, I am an orphan
     child."  And the Lady replied, "How can I give that which I
     have not?  I am the widow of a slain lord,--the mother of a
     perished child.  When I fled in my fear from the vengeance
     of my husband's foes, our bark was overwhelmed in the tide,
     and my infant perished.  This was on St. Bridget's morn,
     near the strong Lyns of Campsie.  May ill luck light upon
     the day."  And the maiden answered, "It was on St. Bridget's
     morn, and twelve harvests before this time, that the
     fishermen of Campsie drew in their nets neither grilse nor
     salmon, but an infant half dead, who hath since lived in
     misery, and must die, unless she is now aided." And the Lady
     answered, "Blessed be Saint Bridget and her morn, for these
     are the dark eyes and the falcon look of my slain lord; and
     thine shall be the inheritance of his widow."  And she
     called for her waiting attendants, and she bade them clothe
     that maiden in silk, and in samite; and the pearls which
     they wove among her black tresses, were whiter than the
     frozen hail-drops.

While the song proceeded, Lord Menteith observed, with some surprise, that it appeared to produce
a much deeper effect upon the mind of Sir Duncan Campbell, than he could possibly have anticipated
from his age and character. He well knew that the Highlanders of that period possessed a much
greater sensibility both for tale and song than was found among their Lowland neighbours; but
even this, he thought, hardly accounted for the embarrassment with which the old man withdrew
his eyes from the songstress, as if unwilling to suffer them to rest on an object so interesting.
Still less was it to be expected, that features which expressed pride, stern common sense,
and the austere habit of authority, should have been so much agitated by so trivial a circumstance.
As the Chief's brow became clouded, he drooped his large shaggy grey eyebrows until they almost
concealed his eyes, on the lids of which something like a tear might be seen to glisten. He
remained silent and fixed in the same posture for a minute or two, after the last note had
ceased to vibrate. He then raised his head, and having looked at Annot Lyle, as if purposing
to speak to her, he as suddenly changed that purpose, and was about to address Allan, when
the door opened, and the Lord of the Castle made his appearance.

CHAPTER X.

     Dark on their journey lour'd the gloomy day,
     Wild were the hills, and doubtful grew the way;
     More dark, more gloomy, and more doubtful, show'd
     The mansion, which received them from the road.
     --THE TRAVELLERS, A ROMANCE.

Angus M'Aulay was charged with a message which he seemed to find some difficulty in communicating;
for it was not till after he had framed his speech several different ways, and blundered them
all, that he succeeded in letting Sir Duncan Campbell know, that the cavalier who was to accompany
him was waiting in readiness, and that all was prepared for his return to Inverary. Sir Duncan
Campbell rose up very indignantly; the affront which this message implied immediately driving
out of his recollection the sensibility which had been awakened by the music.

"I little expected this," he said, looking indignantly at Angus M'Aulay. "I little thought
that there was a Chief in the West Highlands, who, at the pleasure of a Saxon, would have bid
the Knight of Ardenvohr leave his castle, when the sun was declining from the meridian, and
ere the second cup had been filled. But farewell, sir, the food of a churl does not satisfy
the appetite; when I next revisit Darnlinvarach, it shall be with a naked sword in one hand,
and a firebrand in the other."

"And if you so come," said Angus, "I pledge myself to meet you fairly, though you brought five
hundred Campbells at your back, and to afford you and them such entertainment, that you shall
not again complain of the hospitality of Darnlinvarach." 

PIPER'S ISLETS are four low bushy islets upon two circular reefs, with a passage separating
them of a quarter of a mile wide; the reefs have each two islets upon them, and a dry rocky key
round their western edge: the centre of the narrowest part of the channel between them is twelve and
a half fathoms deep, but abreast the south end of the south-easternmost shoal there is ten
and a half fathoms. l, a circular coral reef, a mile and a half in
diameter, with a dry rock at its east end, in latitude 12 degrees
9 minutes 5 seconds, and longitude 143 degrees 11 minutes.

YOUNG ISLAND, a small islet on a coral reef of about half a mile in extent, in latitude 12 degrees 6
minutes 50 seconds, and longitude 143 degrees 7 minutes.

(See volume 1.) m, a coral reef, about two and a half miles long, having a dry rock at its north end;
it bears South 40 degrees West, three miles from the summit of Haggerston's
Island. n, an extensive, irregular-shaped, coral reef, seven miles
long, and from one to four broad; it is separated from o by a narrow
tortuous channel, but not safe to pass through: both n and o are
covered.

There is a safe passage between these reefs and Haggerston's Island,
of a mile and a half wide; but there is a small reef detached from
the north-west end of n, which should be avoided, although there is
probably sufficient depth of water over it for any ship: it was seen
from the summit of the island, from whence another coral patch was
observed at about one mile to the westward, of which we saw no signs.
p is a small reef, of about a mile and a quarter in extent; it was
seen from the summit of Haggerston's Island, as was also another reef,
seven miles South by East from it: the positions of these reefs are
doubtful.

HAGGERSTON'S ISLAND is high and rocky; the summit is in latitude 12 degrees 1 minute 40 seconds,
and longitude 143 degrees 12 minutes; it is situated at the South-South-West
extremity of a coral reef, of nearly two miles in length; its northern
side is furnished with some trees and a sandy beach.

At the north end of the reef are two dry patches of sand and rocks.
It is separated from the islands of Sir Everard Home's Group by a channel
nearly three miles wide, quite free from danger; but in passing through
it, the tide or current sets to the North-North-West, round the reef
off Haggerston's Island.

(See volume 1.) SIR EVERARD HOME'S GROUP consists of six islands: the two south-westernmost are
rocky, and one of them has two peaks upon it, which, from the southward, have the appearance
of being upon the extremity of Cape Grenville: the south-easternmost has a hillock, or clump
of trees, at its south-east extremity, in latitude 11 degrees 57 minutes 40 seconds, and longitude
143 degrees 11 minutes.

The outer part of this group
is bold to, and the islands may be approached, but the space within them appeared
to be rocky: there is a passage between the group and Cape Grenville.
The merchant ship Lady Elliot in passing through it, found overfalls
with eighteen fathoms.

Round Cape Grenville is MARGARET BAY, fronted by SUNDAY ISLAND, elevated
and rocky, but not so high as Haggerston's Island, with good anchorage
under its lee. q is a covered reef of about a mile in extent, in
latitude 11 degrees 55 minutes, five or six miles to the East-North-East
of Sir Everard Home's Group.

SIR CHARLES HARDY'S ISLANDS are high and rocky, and may be seen five or six leagues off; the
summit is in latitude 11 degrees 53 minutes 20 seconds, and longitude 143 degrees 23 minutes 40 seconds.
r is a covered reef; and s, a reef, with a dry sandy key upon it. COCKBURN ISLES are rocky, and
may be seen four leagues off.* (* Footnote.

There is a dry sand bearing South-West by West 1/ 2 West, two miles and a half from the southernmost
Cockburn Island, and there are many shoals of great extent to the northward
of the group. Roe manuscript.) t and u are two reefs that were seen
at a distance, and appeared to be detached from each other. BIRD
ISLES (the Lagoon Islands of Lieutenant Bligh) consist of three low
bushy islets encompassed by a reef: the islands are at the outer
verge of the reef, and may be passed within a quarter of a mile; the
north-east island is in latitude 11 degrees 44 minutes 15 seconds,
and longitude 142 degrees 58 minutes 45 seconds.

McARTHUR'S ISLES consist of four low bushy islets, of which two are very small; they are encompassed
by a reef of more than three miles long, and are separated from the Bird Isles by a channel three
miles and a half wide.

HANNIBAL'S ISLES are three in number, low and covered with bushes, the easternmost is near
the extremity of the reef encircling the whole, and is in latitude
11 degrees 34 minutes 15 seconds, and longitude 142 degrees 51 minutes
20 seconds.* (* Footnote.

There
is a dry sand at one mile and three-quarters, and another at two miles
and a half North-North-West from North Hannibal Island.) v and w; these
shoals are separated by a safe channel of a mile and a quarter wide;
v is circular, and has a dry sand at its north-west edge, and a rocky
key at its south-west end; the channel between it and Hannibal's Islands
is two miles and a half wide: w is nearly four miles long, and is
entirely covered; the course between them is west, but, by hauling
close round the east end of v, a West by North 1/ 2 North course will
carry a vessel a quarter of a mile to leeward of the west end of w;
the north-west extreme of w is three miles and a quarter South 35
degrees West from Islet 1.

The islets 1 and 2 are contained in a triangular-shaped reef, of about a mile and three quarters in
extent; they are covered with low trees. Islet 1 is in latitude 11
degrees 28 minutes 45 seconds.

Number
3 is a sandy islet crowned with bushes at the north-west end of a
coral reef of about a mile and a half in length.

Between the two latter reefs there appeared to be a channel of a
mile wide in the direction of about North-West.

4, 5, and 6, are sandy islets covered with bushes, on small detached reefs, with, apparently,
a passage between each: 4 is in latitude 11 degrees 22 minutes 30 seconds. 7, a small bushy island,*
is separated from CAIRNCROSS ISLAND by a channel two miles wide.

The latter is a small woody island, situated at the north-west end
of a coral reef, more than two miles long and one broad; the north-west
point of the reef runs off with a sharp point for about a quarter
of a mile from the islet.

There is good anchorage under it, but the depth is fifteen fathoms, and the sea is rather heavy at
times with the tide setting against the wind; the latitude of its centre is 11 degrees 33 minutes
30 seconds, and its longitude 142 degrees 50 minutes 35 seconds. (See volume 1 and above.) (* Footnote.
A rocky reef extends for two miles to the southward of islet 7.

Roe manuscript.) 8, 9, and 10, are low, woody islets: 8 is five miles to the eastward of Cairncross
Island; 9 and 10 are to the northward of 8. 11 is also low and woody, but its position was not clearly
ascertained.

ORFORDNESS is a sandy projection of the coast under Pudding-pan Hill
(of Bligh) the shape of which, being flat-topped, is very remarkable: the
hill is in latitude 11 degrees 18 minutes 30 seconds, and longitude
142 degrees 43 minutes 35 seconds.

The country between Cape Grenville and Cape York is low and sandy,
with but few sinuosities in its coast line: it is exposed to the trade
wind, which often blows with great strength, from South-East and South-East
by East.

ESCAPE RIVER, in 10 degrees 57 1/ 2 minutes, is an opening in the land of one mile in breadth, trending
in for two or three miles, when it turns to the north, and is concealed
from the view; the land on the north side of the entrance is probably
an island, for an opening was observed in Newcastle Bay, trending
to the south, which may communicate with the river.

The entrance is defended by a bar, on which the Mermaid was nearly
lost. (Volume 1.) The deepest channel may probably be near the south
head, which is rocky. The banks on the south side are wooded, and present
an inviting aspect. NEWCASTLE BAY is nine miles in extent by six deep;
its shores are low, and apparently of a sandy character; at the bottom
there is a considerable opening bearing West 1/ 4 North eight miles
and a half from Turtle Island. Off the south head of the bay is TURTLE
ISLAND, a small rocky islet on the east side of an extensive reef,
in latitude 10 degrees 54 minutes, and longitude 142 degrees 38 minutes
40 seconds; it is separated by a channel three miles wide from reef
x, which has a dry sand at its north end, in latitude 10 degrees 53
minutes, and longitude 142 degrees 42 minutes, it has also some dry
rocks and a mangrove bush on the inner part of its south end.

Four miles to the north of x are two shoals y and Z, both of which are
covered; y is two miles and a half long, and three miles and a quarter;
neither of them appeared to be a mile in width; the north-west end
of z, when in a line with Mount Adolphus, bears North 19 degrees
West.

Off the north head of Newcastle Bay, which forms the south-east trend of the land of Cape York,
is a group of high rocky islands, ALBANY ISLES; and immediately off the point is a reef, which
extends for about a mile; half a mile without its edge, we had ten
fathoms.

The islets 12, 13, and 15, were only seen at a distance. THE BROTHERS, so called in Lieutenant
Bligh's chart, are two high rocks upon a reef. ALBANY ISLES contain six islands, of which
one only is of large size; the easternmost has a small peak, and a reef extends for less than a
quarter of a mile from it; the peak is in latitude 10 degrees 43 minutes 45 seconds, and longitude
142 degrees 35 minutes 5 seconds. YORK ISLES is a group about seven miles from the mainland; the
principal island, which is not more than two miles long, has a very conspicuous flat-topped hill upon
it, MOUNT ADOLPHUS,* in latitude 10 degrees 38 minutes 20 seconds,
and longitude 142 degrees 36 minutes 25 seconds. Off the south-east
end of this island are two rocky islets, the southernmost of which
is more than a mile distant; the northern group of the York Isles
are laid down from Captain Flinders.

(* Footnote.

There is a bay on the west side or Mount Adolphus, but it appeared
shoal.

Roe manuscript.) CAPE YORK, the northernmost land of New South Wales, has a conical hill half a
mile within its extremity, the situation of which is in 10 degrees
42 minutes 40 seconds South, and 142 degrees 28 minutes 50 seconds
East of Greenwich.

There is also an island close to the point with a conical hill upon
it, which has perhaps been hitherto taken for the cape; from which
it is separated by a shoal strait half a mile wide; the latitude of
the summit is 10 degrees 41 minutes 35 seconds, and longitude 142
degrees 28 minutes 25 seconds.

From this island a considerable shoal extends to the westward for six miles towards a peaked
hill on the extremity of a point. In the centre of this shoal are some dry rocks. At the distance of nearly
five miles from the above island is the rocky islet a, in latitude
10 degrees 36 minutes 50 seconds, and longitude 142 degrees 27 minutes
45 seconds; it is of small size, and surrounded by deep water; and,
being easily seen from the strait between Cape York and the York Isles,
serves to direct the course.

POSSESSION ISLES consist of nine or ten islets, of which 2 and 7 only are of large size, and
neither of these are two miles long; they are also higher than the others. Number 1 is a small
conical hill; 2 is hummocky; 3, 4, and 6, are very small; 5 makes
with a hollow in its centre, like the seat of a saddle.

The passage between 2 and the small islets 3 and 4 is the best; there
is six and seven fathoms water; but in passing this, it must be recollected
that the tide sets towards the islands on the northern side. ENDEAVOUR
STRAIT is on the south side of Prince of Wales'Islands: a shoal extends
from Cape Cornwall (latitude 10 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds, longitude
142 degrees 8 minutes 35 seconds) to the westward, and is probably
connected with a strip of sand that stretches from Wallis'Isles to
Shoal Cape.

We crossed it with the cape bearing about East, when the least depth was four fathoms; but on many parts
there are not more than three fathoms. Variation 5 degrees 38 minutes West. PRINCE OF WALES ISLANDS
are much intersected by straits and openings, that are very little
known; there was an appearance of a good port, a little to the South-West
of HORNED HILL (latitude 10 degrees 36 minutes 35 seconds, longitude
142 degrees 15 minutes) which may probably communicate with Wolf's
Bay; the strait to the south of Wednesday Island also offers a good
port in the eastern entrance of some rocky islands and without them
is the rock b, with some sunken dangers near it.

WEDNESDAY ISLAND; its north end, in latitude 10 degrees 30 minutes 10 seconds, and longitude
142 degrees 15 minutes, may be approached close, but a considerable shoal stretches off its western
side, the greater part of which is dry.

Off HAMMOND'S ISLAND is a high, conspicuous rock, bearing West 3/ 4 South, and five miles and three-quarters
from the north end of Wednesday Island. Captain Flinders passed through the strait separating
Wednesday Island from Hammond's Islands, and had four, five, and six fathoms. Abreast of the strait
separating GOOD'S ISLAND from the latter is the reef c, on which are several dry rocks, but abreast
of it, and one mile and one quarter from it, is the reef d,* which
is generally covered; the latter bears South 75 degrees West three
miles and a quarter from the rock off Hammond's Island, and about
North 45 degrees West two and a quarter miles from the opening between
Good and Hammond's Island; the marks for avoiding it are given in
the sailing directions.

(* Footnote. d consists of three small detached patches, that extend farther off than is at first
observed. There is also a narrow strip of rocks extending for a short distance off the north-east
end of the reef off Hammond's Island.

Roe manuscript.) Abreast of Wednesday, Hammond, and Good's Islands, is the NORTH-WEST REEF, an
extensive coral bank, many parts of which are dry; it is ten or eleven miles long; the channel between
it and the islands is from one mile and three-quarters to two miles
and a quarter wide.

BOOBY ISLAND (latitude of its centre 10 degrees 36 minutes, longitude
141 degrees 52 minutes 50 seconds) is a small rocky islet of scarcely
a third of a mile in diameter; its south-west end has a shoal projecting
from it for half a mile, but its other sides are bold to.

In a North 70 degrees East direction from it, at the distance of
two miles and three-quarters, is a sandbank with three fathoms; it
was discovered by the ships Claudine and Mary, on their passage through
Torres Strait, when it was named LARPENT'S BANK.* (* Footnote.

It is near the west end of a shoal of five miles in length, extending in an east and west direction,
a few feet only below the surface of the water. In the sea that separates the land of New Guinea
and the islands of Timor Laut and Arroo from the north coast of Australia,
the winds are periodical, and are called the east and west monsoons,
for such is their direction in the mid-sea.

Near the Coast of New Holland the regularity of these winds is partly suspended by the rarefied state
of the atmosphere; this produces land and sea-breezes, but the former
are principally from the quarter from which the winds are blowing
in the mid sea.

The usual course of the winds near the coast in the months of April, May, and June, is as follows:
after a calm night, the land-wind springs up at daylight from South
or South-South-East; it then usually freshens, but, as the sun gets
higher, and the land becomes heated, gradually decreases.

At noon the
sea-wind rushes in towards the land, and generally blows fresh from
East; at sunset it veers to the North-East, and falls calm, which
lasts the whole night, so that if a ship, making a course, does not
keep at a moderate distance from the land, she is subject to delay;
she would not, however, probably have so fresh a breeze in the day
time.

Later in the season of the easterly monsoon, in August, September,
and October, calms are frequent, and the heat is sultry and oppressive;
this weather sometimes lasts for a fortnight or three weeks at a time.
The easterly monsoon commences about the 1st of April, with squally,
rainy weather, but, in a week or ten days, settles to fine weather
and steady winds in the offing, and regular land and sea breezes,
as above described, near the coast.

It ceases about the latter end of November or early part of December; the westerly monsoon may then be
expected to blow strong, and perhaps with regularity. This is the rainy season, and is doubtless
an unwholesome time; Captain Flinders'crew experienced much sickness in his examination of
the Gulf of Carpentaria during this monsoon, but, when upon the western side of the gulf, he thought
that the fine weather then experienced might be occasioned by the
monsoon's blowing over the land.

In January and February the monsoon is at its strength, but declines
towards the end of the latter month, and in March becomes variable,
with dark, cloudy, and unsettled weather; the wind is then generally
from the South-West, but not at all regular.

The current sets with the wind, and seldom exceeds a knot or a knot and a half per hour; between
Capes Wessel and Van Diemen it is not stronger, and its course in the easterly monsoon, when only
we had any experience of it, was West: the strength is probably increased or diminished by the
state of the wind.

The tides are of trifling consequence; the flood comes from the eastward, but rarely rises more than
ten feet, or runs so much as a mile and a half per hour. High water takes place at full and change
at Liverpool River, and Goulburn Island at six o'clock, at the entrance of the Alligator Rivers in Van
Diemen's Gulf, at 8 hours 15 minutes, and at the south end of Apsley Strait at 3 hours 25 minutes.*
The flood-tide comes from the eastward, excepting when its course is altered by local circumstances;
the rise is not more than eleven feet at the springs.

(* Footnote. In St. Asaph's Bay, Lieutenant Roe found high-water take
place at full and change at 5 hours 45 minutes; and in King's Cove
at 5 hours 15 minutes; at the latter place it rose fourteen feet.) The variation
of the compass in this interval is scarcely affected by the ship's
local attraction.

Off Cape Wessel it is between 3 and 4 degrees East; at Liverpool River about 1 3/ 4 degrees
East, at Goulburn Islands 2 degrees East, and off Cape Van Diemen,
not more than 1 1/ 2 degrees East.

The dip
of the south end of the needle at Goulburn Island was 27 degrees 32
1/ 2 minutes. When the survey of the Gulf of Carpentaria was completed
by Captain Flinders, his vessel proved to be so unfit for continuing
the examination of the north coast, that it was found necessary to return
to Port Jackson; and as he left it at the strait that separates Point
Dale from Wessel's Islands, which is called in my chart BROWN'S STRAIT,
he saw no part of the coast to the westward of that point, nor did
he even see Cape Wessel, the extremity of the range of Wessel's Islands,
which terminate in latitude 10 degrees 59 1/ 4 minutes, and longitude
135 degrees 46 minutes 30 seconds.

The group consists of four islands, besides some of smaller size to the southward of the northernmost,
and also a few on the eastern side of Brown's Strait; one of which is Cunningham's Island, of Captain
Flinders.

CUMBERLAND STRAIT is in latitude 11 degrees 25 minutes, longitude 135 degrees 31 minutes. POINT
DALE, unless it is upon an island, appears to be the east extremity of the north coast; its
latitude is 11 degrees 36 minutes, longitude 135 degrees 9 minutes:
there are several rocky islands of small size, lying off, encompassed
by a reef, which extends for eight miles North-North-East 1/ 2 East
from the point.

In Brown's
Strait the tide sets at the rate of three and a half and four miles per hour; the flood runs
to the southward through the strait. To the westward of Point Dale the coast extends for about sixty miles
to the south-west to Castlereagh Bay; in which space there are several openings in the beach,
that are probably small rivers: one, ten miles to the South-West, may be a strait insulating
Point Dale, and communicating with Arnhem Bay.

CASTLEREAGH
BAY is forty miles wide, by about eighteen deep; it is fronted by a group of straggling islands of low
coral formation, crowned with small trees and bushes: the centre of the northernmost islet is in
latitude 11 degrees 41 minutes 50 seconds, longitude 134 degrees
10 minutes 5 seconds.

To the eastward of Cape Stewart, the western head of the bay, the coast is very much indented,
and probably contains several openings or rivulets, particularly two at the bottom of the bay.
The beach is generally sandy, with rocky points, and the shore is
wooded to the beach; the interior was in no part visible over the
coast hills, which are very low and level.

From the extremity of CAPE STEWART, which is in latitude 11 degrees 56 minutes, and longitude 133
degrees 48 minutes, a reef extends to the West by North 1/ 2 North for eight miles and a half;
having, at a mile within the extremity, a low sandy key, with a small dry rock half a mile to
the eastward. Every other part of the reef is covered. To the westward of Cape Stewart is a sandy bay
nearly eleven leagues in extent, but not more than seven deep; near its western end there is a small
break in the beach, but it did not appear to be of any consequence.

The extreme point of this bight is the eastern head of LIVERPOOL RIVER, whose entrance is to
the westward of Haul-round Islet; which, as well as Entrance Island,
is connected to the above point by a shoal.

     
     Haul-round Islet is in latitude 11 degrees 54 minutes,
     and longitude 134 degrees 14 minutes; Entrance Island
     is in latitude 11 degrees 57 minutes,
     and longitude 134 degrees 14 minutes 50
     seconds. The entrance is from one and a quarter to
     two miles wide. Nevertheless, Penthesilea, in ancient times, and also Joan of Arc, and
others, were of a different kidney. And, as I have learned while I served the Spaniard, the
Duke of Alva in former times had the leaguer-lasses who followed his camp marshalled into TERTIAS
(whilk me call regiments), and officered and commanded by those of their own feminine gender,
and regulated by a commander-in chief, called in German Hureweibler, or, as we would say vernacularly,
Captain of the Queans. True it is, they were persons not to be named as parallel to your ladyship,
being such QUAE QUAESTUM CORPORIBUS FACIEBANT, as we said of Jean Drochiels at Mareschal-College;
the same whom the French term CURTISANNES, and we in Scottish--"

"The lady will spare you the trouble of further exposition, Captain Dalgetty," said his host,
somewhat sternly; to which the clergyman added, "that such discourse better befitted a watch-tower
guarded by profane soldiery than the board of an honourable person, and the presence of a lady
of quality."

"Craving your pardon, Dominie, or Doctor, AUT QUOCUNQUE ALIO NOMINE GAUDES, for I would have
you to know I have studied polite letters," said the unabashed envoy, filling a great cup of
wine, "I see no ground for your reproof, seeing I did not speak of those TURPES PERSONAE, as
if their occupation or character was a proper subject of conversation for this lady's presence,
but simply PAR ACCIDENS, as illustrating the matter in hand, namely, their natural courage
and audacity, much enhanced, doubtless, by the desperate circumstances of their condition."

"Captain Dalgetty," said Sir Duncan Campbell, "to break short this discourse, I must acquaint
you, that I have some business to dispatch to-night, in order to enable me to ride with you
to-morrow towards Inverary; and therefore--"

"To ride with this person to-morrow!" exclaimed his lady; "such cannot be your purpose, Sir
Duncan, unless you have forgotten that the morrow is a sad anniversary, and dedicated to as
sad a solemnity."

"I had not forgotten," answered Sir Duncan; "how is it possible I can ever forget? but the
necessity of the times requires I should send this officer onward to Inverary, without loss
of time."

"Yet, surely, not that you should accompany him in person?" enquired the lady.

"It were better I did," said Sir Duncan; "yet I can write to the Marquis, and follow on the
subsequent day.--Captain Dalgetty, I will dispatch a letter for you, explaining to the Marquis
of Argyle your character and commission, with which you will please to prepare to travel to
Inverary early to-morrow morning."

"Sir Duncan Campbell," said Dalgetty, "I am doubtless at your discretionary disposal in this
matter; not the less, I pray you to remember the blot which will fall upon your own escutcheon,
if you do in any way suffer me, being a commissionate flag of truce, to be circumvented in
this matter, whether CLAM, VI, VEL PRECARIO; I do not say by your assent to any wrong done
to me, but even through absence of any due care on your part to prevent the same."

"You are under the safeguard of my honour, sir," answered Sir Duncan Campbell, "and that is
more than a sufficient security. And now," continued he, rising, "I must set the example of
retiring."

Dalgetty saw himself under the necessity of following the hint, though the hour was early;
but, like a skilful general, he availed himself of every instant of delay which circumstances
permitted. "Trusting to your honourable parole," said he, filling his cup, "I drink to you,
Sir Duncan, and to the continuance of your honourable-house." A sigh from Sir Duncan was the
only reply. "Also, madam," said the soldier, replenishing the quaigh with all possible dispatch,
"I drink to your honourable health, and fulfilment of all your virtuous desires--and, reverend
sir" (not forgetting to fit the action to the words), "I fill this cup to the drowning of all
unkindness betwixt you and Captain Dalgetty--I should say Major--and, in respect the flagon
contains but one cup more, I drink to the health of all honourable cavaliers and brave soldados--and,
the flask being empty, I am ready, Sir Duncan, to attend your functionary or sentinel to my
place of private repose."

He received a formal permission to retire, and an assurance, that as the wine seemed to be
to his taste, another measure of the same vintage should attend him presently, in order to
soothe the hours of his solitude.

No sooner had the Captain reached the apartment than this promise was fulfilled; and, in a
short time afterwards, the added comforts of a pasty of red-deer venison rendered him very
tolerant both of confinement and want of society. The same domestic, a sort of chamberlain,
who placed this good cheer in his apartment, delivered to Dalgetty a packet, sealed and tied
up with a silken thread, according to the custom of the time, addressed with many forms of
respect to the High and Mighty Prince, Archibald, Marquis of Argyle, Lord of Lorne, and so
forth. The chamberlain at the same time apprized the Ritt-master, that he must take horse at
an early hour for Inverary, where the packet of Sir Duncan would be at once his introduction
and his passport. Not forgetting that it was his object to collect information as well as to
act as an envoy, and desirous, for his own sake, to ascertain Sir Duncan's reasons for sending
him onward without his personal attendance, the Ritt-master enquired the domestic, with all
the precaution that his experience suggested, what were the reasons which detained Sir Duncan
at home on the succeeding day. The man, who was from the Lowlands, replied, "that it was the
habit of Sir Duncan and his lady to observe as a day of solemn fast and humiliation the anniversary
on which their castle had been taken by surprise, and their children, to the number of four,
destroyed cruelly by a band of Highland freebooters during Sir Duncan's absence upon an expedition
which the Marquis of Argyle had undertaken against the Macleans of the Isle of Mull."

"Truly," said the soldier, "your lord and lady have some cause for fast and humiliation. Nevertheless,
I will venture to pronounce, that if he had taken the advice of any experienced soldier, having
skill in the practiques of defending places of advantage, he would have built a sconce upon
the small hill which is to the left of the draw-brigg. And this I can easily prove to you,
mine honest friend; for, holding that pasty to be the castle--What's your name, friend?"

"Lorimer, sir," replied the man.

"Here is to your health, honest Lorimer.--I say, Lorimer--holding that pasty to be the main
body or citadel of the place to be defended, and taking the marrow-bone for the sconce to be
erected--"

"I am sorry, sir," said Lorimer, interrupting him, "that I cannot stay to hear the rest of
your demonstration; but the bell will presently ring. As worthy Mr. Graneangowl, the Marquis's
own chaplain, does family worship, and only seven of our household out of sixty persons understand
the Scottish tongue, it would misbecome any one of them to be absent, and greatly prejudice
me in the opinion of my lady. There are pipes and tobacco, sir, if you please to drink a whiff
of smoke, and if you want anything else, it shall be forthcoming two hours hence, when prayers
are over." So saying, he left the apartment.

No sooner was he gone, than the heavy toll of the castle-bell summoned its inhabitants together;
and was answered by the shrill clamour of the females, mixed with the deeper tones of the men,
as, talking Earse at the top of their throats, they hurried from different quarters by a long
but narrow gallery, which served as a communication to many rooms, and, among others, to that
in which Captain Dalgetty was stationed. There they go as if they were beating to the roll-call,
thought the soldier to himself; if they all attend the parade, I will look out, take a mouthful
of fresh air, and make mine own observations on the practicabilities of this place.

Accordingly, when all was quiet, he opened his chamber door, and prepared to leave it, when
he saw his friend with the axe advancing towards him from the distant end of the gallery, half
whistling, a Gaelic tune. To have shown any want of confidence, would have been at once impolitic,
and unbecoming his military character; so the Captain, putting the best face upon his situation
he could, whistled a Swedish retreat, in a tone still louder than the notes of his sentinel;
and retreating pace by pace, with an air of indifference, as if his only purpose had been to
breathe a little fresh air, he shut the door in the face of his guard, when the fellow had
approached within a few paces of him.

It is very well, thought the Ritt-master to himself; he annuls my parole by putting guards
upon me, for, as we used to say at Mareschal-College, FIDES ET FIDUCIA SUNT RELATIVA [See Note
I]; and if he does not trust my word, I do not see how I am bound to keep it, if any motive
should occur for my desiring to depart from it. Surely the moral obligation of the parole is
relaxed, in as far as physical force is substituted instead thereof.

Thus comforting himself in the metaphysical immunities which he deduced from the vigilance
of his sentinel, Ritt-master Dalgetty retired to his apartment, where, amid the theoretical
calculations of tactics, and the occasional more practical attacks on the flask and pasty,
he consumed the evening until it was time to go to repose. He was summoned by Lorimer at break
of day, who gave him to understand, that, when he had broken his fast, for which he produced
ample materials, his guide and horse were in attendance for his journey to Inverary. After
complying with the hospitable hint of the chamberlain, the soldier proceeded to take horse.
In passing through the apartments, he observed that domestics were busily employed in hanging
the great hall with black cloth, a ceremony which, he said, he had seen practised when the
immortal Gustavus Adolphus lay in state in the Castle of Wolgast, and which, therefore, he
opined, was a testimonial of the strictest and deepest mourning.

When Dalgetty mounted his steed, he found himself attended, or perhaps guarded, by five or
six Campbells, well armed, commanded by one, who, from the target at his shoulder, and the
short cock's feather in his bonnet, as well as from the state which he took upon himself, claimed
the rank of a Dunniewassel, or clansman of superior rank; and indeed, from his dignity of deportment,
could not stand in a more distant degree of relationship to Sir Duncan, than that of tenth
or twelfth cousin at farthest. But it was impossible to extract positive information on this
or any other subject, inasmuch as neither this commander nor any of his party spoke English.
The Captain rode, and his military attendants walked; but such was their activity, and so numerous
the impediments which the nature of the road presented to the equestrian mode of travelling,
that far from being retarded by the slowness of their pace, his difficulty was rather in keeping
up with his guides. He observed that they occasionally watched him with a sharp eye, as if
they were jealous of some effort to escape; and once, as he lingered behind at crossing a brook,
one of the gillies began to blow the match of his piece, giving him to understand that he would
run some risk in case of an attempt to part company. Dalgetty did not augur much good from
the close watch thus maintained upon his person; but there was no remedy, for an attempt to
escape from his attendants in an impervious and unknown country, would have been little short
of insanity. He therefore plodded patiently on through a waste and savage wilderness, treading
paths which were only known to the shepherds and cattle-drivers, and passing with much more
of discomfort than satisfaction many of those sublime combinations of mountainous scenery which
now draw visitors from every corner of England, to feast their eyes upon Highland grandeur,
and mortify their palates upon Highland fare.

At length they arrived on the southern verge of that noble lake upon which Inverary is situated;
and a bugle, which the Dunniewassel winded till rock and greenwood rang, served as a signal
to a well-manned galley, which, starting from a creek where it lay concealed, received the
party on board, including Gustavus; which sagacious quadruped, an experienced traveller both
by water and land, walked in and out of the boat with the discretion of a Christian.

Embarked on the bosom of Loch Fine, Captain Dalgetty might have admired one of the grandest
scenes which nature affords. He might have noticed the rival rivers Aray and Shiray, which
pay tribute to the lake, each issuing from its own dark and wooded retreat. He might have marked,
on the soft and gentle slope that ascends from the shores, the noble old Gothic castle, with
its varied outline, embattled walls, towers, and outer and inner courts, which, so far as the
picturesque is concerned, presented an aspect much more striking than the present massive and
uniform mansion. He might have admired those dark woods which for many a mile surrounded this
strong and princely dwelling, and his eye might have dwelt on the picturesque peak of Duniquoich,
starting abruptly from the lake, and raising its scathed brow into the mists of middle sky,
while a solitary watch-tower, perched on its top like an eagle's nest, gave dignity to the
scene by awakening a sense of possible danger. All these, and every other accompaniment of
this noble scene, Captain Dalgetty might have marked, if he had been so minded. Anchor in King George
the Third's Sound. Occurrences there. Visited by the Natives. Our intercourse with them. Descriptions
of their weapons and other implements. Vocabulary of their language. Meteorological and other
observations. Edible plants.

The boat soon approached the rugged pier, which abutted into the loch from the little town
of Inverary, then a rude assemblage of huts, with a very few stone mansions interspersed, stretching
upwards from the banks of Loch Fine to the principal gate of the castle, before which a scene
presented itself that might easily have quelled a less stout heart, and turned a more delicate
stomach, than those of Ritt-master Dugald Dalgetty, titular of Drumthwacket.

CHAPTER XII.

The village of Inverary, now a neat country town, then partook of the rudeness of the seventeenth
century, in the miserable appearance of the houses, and the irregularity of the unpaved street.
But a stronger and more terrible characteristic of the period appeared in the market-place,
which was a space of irregular width, half way betwixt the harbour, or pier, and the frowning
castle-gate, which terminated with its gloomy archway, portcullis, and flankers, the upper
end of the vista. Midway this space was erected a rude gibbet, on which hung five dead bodies,
two of which from their dress seemed to have been Lowlanders, and the other three corpses were
muffled in their Highland plaids. Two or three women sate under the gallows, who seemed to
be mourning, and singing the coronach of the deceased in a low voice. But the spectacle was
apparently of too ordinary occurrence to have much interest for the inhabitants at large, who,
while they thronged to look at the military figure, the horse of an unusual size, and the burnished
panoply of Captain Dalgetty, seemed to bestow no attention whatever on the piteous spectacle
which their own market-place afforded.

The envoy of Montrose was not quite so indifferent; and, hearing a word or two of English escape
from a Highlander of decent appearance, he immediately halted Gustavus and addressed him, "The
Provost-Marshal has been busy here, my friend. May I crave of you what these delinquents have
been justified for?"

He looked towards the gibbet as he spoke; and the Gael, comprehending his meaning rather by
his action than his words, immediately replied, "Three gentlemen caterans,--God sain them,"
(crossing himself)--"twa Sassenach bits o' bodies, that wadna do something that M'Callum More
bade them;" and turning from Dalgetty with an air of indifference, away he walked, staying
no farther question.

Dalgetty shrugged his shoulders and proceeded, for Sir Duncan Campbell's tenth or twelfth cousin
had already shown some signs of impatience.

At the gate of the castle another terrible spectacle of feudal power awaited him. Within a
stockade or palisade, which seemed lately to have been added to the defences of the gate, and
which was protected by two pieces of light artillery, was a small enclosure, where stood a
huge block, on which lay an axe. The Naturaliste found only occasion to moor with a kedge, merely
to keep the cable clear of the anchor. As the strongest winds were
the South and East, the bower anchor was laid in the latter direction.

The above seems to be all that is worth taking from M. De Freycinet's account as regards the navigation
of Shark's Bay. The coasts of the harbours of Henry Freycinet and Hamelin are much more detailed
by him, and there is also much valuable information upon various
heads, particularly as to meteorological observations, and the productions
of the land and sea, and a curious example of the effect of a mirage;
but as these subjects are irrelevant to the matter of this paper,
they have been disregarded.

From POINT ESCARPEE to GANTHEAUME BAY, the coast is formed by a precipitous range of rocky cliffs,
rising abruptly from the sea, to the height perhaps of three or four hundred feet. The coast is fringed
with an uninterrupted line of breakers. The summit of the land is so level, and the coast so
uniform, that no summits or points could be set with any chance of
recognizing them.

     The depth at ten miles off the shore, was between fifty and seventy
     fathoms, decreasing to thirty-four in the neighbourhood
     of Gantheaume Bay.
     

GANTHEAUME BAY probably affords shelter on its south side from South-West winds: there was some
appearance of an opening in it, but Vlaming, who sent a boat on shore here, has not mentioned
it; and if there is one, it is of very small size, and unimportant. The shores of the bay are
low and of sterile appearance.

RED POINT, a steep cliffy projection, is the north extremity of a
range of reddish-coloured cliffs, of about two hundred feet high,
that extends to the southward for eight miles, when a sandy shore
commences and continues with little variation, except occasional rocky
projections and sometimes rocky bays, as far as Cape Burney.

The coast is moderately high, and, in the interior, some hills of an unusual height for this
part of the coast are seen. MOUNT NATURALISTE is in latitude 28 degrees 18 minutes, and between
the latitudes 28 degrees 25 minutes and 28 degrees 55 minutes, is MORESBY'S FLAT-TOPPED RANGE.
The coast in front of this range is of pleasing and verdant appearance; two or three small openings
in the sandy beach, with an evident separation in the hills behind, particularly one in latitude
28 degrees 36 minutes, bore indications of rivulets; and the smokes of natives'fires, and the more
wooded character of the coast, showed that the country was evidently more fertile and productive than
any other part between Cape Leeuwin and the North-west Cape.

The bottom at from ten to twelve miles off, is from twenty to twenty-five fathoms deep, and
composed of a fine sand, of a dark gray colour.

CAPE BURNEY is in latitude 28 degrees 56 minutes: four miles to the southward is a reef, apparently
detached from the shore.

HOUTMAN'S ABROLHOS. The old Dutch charts give a very considerable extent to this reef; Van Keulen makes
it cover a space of sea, forty-seven miles long, and twenty-five broad. We only saw the islands at
the south end, with three detached reefs between them and the shore; one of which (the southernmost)
may probably be the TURTLE DOVE.

The islands lie West 4 degrees North true, forty-one miles from Cape Burney, but the channel
(GEELVINK CHANNEL) between the shore and the reefs, is not more than twenty-six miles wide. The
south-easternmost reef that we saw is about three miles long, and lies nearly ten miles South
55 degrees East from the islands; it appeared to be covered, but the sea was breaking high over
it. In passing this part of the coast, Captain Hamelin, who commanded the Naturaliste under Commodore
Baudin's orders, must have steered within the reefs, as the Geelvink (Vlaming's ship) did. The
reef that is laid down upon the chart, in latitude 29 degrees 10 minutes is from Van Keulen.
We did not see it.

(See Horsburgh volume 1 page 98.) From Cape Burney the coast is rather low and sandy; in 29
degrees 16 minutes is a reef; and seven miles more to the south is another;
they lie from five to seven miles from the shore.

In latitude 29 degrees 6 minutes 30 seconds, there is a small peaked hillock; and in 29 degrees
17 minutes 50 seconds, a small sandy patch upon the land.

Between latitudes 29 degrees 25 minutes and 29 degrees 55 minutes, we did not see the coast,
having passed it in the night. It is laid down from Van Keulen's chart. Hence to Island Point,
which is low and rocky, the shore is lined with reefs, extending off shore for two to four
miles. At the back of this, and at about eight miles from the coast, is a rocky range, of three
leagues in length, on which are MOUNTS PERON and LESUEUR.

To the south of ISLAND POINT, are two bays fronted by reefs; the southernmost, JURIEN BAY, has
three or more small islets in it. The coast to the south of the bay is sandy. In latitude
30 degrees 37 minutes, are three small rocky lumps, very remarkably
placed; the middle one is in latitude 30 degrees 37 minutes 40 seconds:
fourteen miles to the south of these are two others, the north-easternmost
is in latitude 30 degrees 51 minutes 50 seconds, they are very conspicuously
placed upon a ridge of bare white sand.

Hence the coast winds to the South-South-East for eighty miles as far as the entrance of Swan
River. The coast is low and slightly wooded, and lined with reefs, that in some places extend for
two miles from the shore. Off CAPE LESCHENAULT (in latitude 31 degrees 21 minutes) is a reef, lying
six miles and a half from the shore; it appeared to be connected
with the rocks that line the coast.

The
following account of SWAN RIVER is taken from Captain De Freycinet's account of Baudin's voyage
(page 175 et seq).

"The mouth of Swan River is in latitude 32 degrees 4 minutes 31 seconds, and longitude 113 degrees
26 minutes 28 seconds East of Paris, or (115 degrees 46 minutes 43 seconds East of Greenwich).
The channel is obstructed by a bar of rocks, which it is very difficult to pass over, and,
indeed, impracticable if the wind blows from the sea. On entering, the passage is on the starboard
side: it is narrow and shoal, and divided into two channels; in each of which there is from five
to six feet of water; after passing this, there is seven and eight feet: the course must then
be towards the west, to avoid two shoals, which are upon the right bank: after half a mile
the navigation is free, and in mid-channel the depth is not less than seven, eight, and nine
feet. The river then trends in a northerly direction for seven miles,
without any sinuosity of consequence.

On the eastern bank, are two shoals; the passage is then on the opposite side of the river, the
depth of which is eight feet: beyond these banks the course of the river trends to the eastward
towards a low point, upon which there is a solitary tree; an extensive bank fronts this point,
and the channel continues on the western shore, ten feet deep. Here the river is a mile broad;
it then increases its width, and forms spacious bays on either side, that were not examined.
To the South-East is an opening, which may probably be an arm of
the river; it was called MOREAU INLET; it was not examined.

Opposite to it is a sharp point, fronted by a shoal, and the channel is on the eastern side of the
river, with thirteen feet water.

Here the river widens and forms a basin, two miles and a half wide: a little above this the
river is blocked up by shoals and islets (HEIRISSON ISLES) between
which the depth is not more than two or three feet, but afterwards
deepens gradually from five to fifteen feet: the banks of the river
are then not more than one-third of a mile wide, and then continue
in a serpentine course, with a channel from seven to ten feet deep,
and free from shoals, as far as the French boats examined it.

The stream of the river ran very slowly, and winds through a valley,
one side of which is abrupt and precipitous, and when it ceases to
be so on one side, the heights immediately appear on the other."

In front of this river is a group of islands, of which two only are of large size, namely, ROTTNEST
and BUACHE. We anchored on the north side of the former, but broke the fluke, from the rocky
nature of the bottom.

On the North-East side of the island, the anchorage is better, since it is more sheltered. Rottnest
Island is five miles long: it was discovered by Vlaming in 1696. Its shores are very rocky and
difficult to land upon, particularly those of its northern side, which is fronted by rocks. Off
its north point there are some rocky islets, and on the north-east
side a convenient landing place in a sandy bay, where boats may put
ashore with great facility.

The island is covered with a pine-like tree, which is very good for fire-wood, but no fresh
water was found in any part; the French were equally unsuccessful in their search. The north-east
point of Rottnest Island is in 31 degrees 59 minutes 30 seconds South, and 115 degrees 31 minutes
12 seconds East; and the variation 4 degrees 50 minutes West.

BUACHE ISLAND, according to Captain De Freycinet's account (page 170)
is equally difficult to land upon; it is well wooded, but destitute
of fresh water.

To the south of CAPE PERON is a long range of sandy coast, for seventy
miles, to GEOGRAPHE BAY, which is open and exposed to the northward
and north-west; its western head is formed by Cape Naturaliste, a
rocky point, in latitude 33 degrees 27 minutes 30 seconds, and longitude
114 degrees 57 minutes 53 seconds, beyond which the coast extends
to the southward, without any bays to Cape Leeuwin.

Off the cape is Naturaliste Reef, in latitude 33 degrees 12 minutes,
and longitude 114 degrees 59 minutes 8 seconds; it was seen by the
French expedition.

The land is here of a moderate height, but of level aspect. There is a remarkable patch of
bare sand, in latitude 34 degrees 12 minutes, and longitude 114 degrees 57 minutes. It is the
Tache blanche remarquable of De Freycinet's chart. It lies about seven miles from the south extreme
of the island.

SOUTH COAST.

Between the meridians of Cape Leeuwin and Bass Strait, the weather is generally very unsettled
and tempestuous; and, at certain seasons, very much against a ship making the western passage from
Port Jackson, which is by passing through Bass Strait, and along the south coast; but it so
happens that at the time when ships cannot proceed through Torres Strait, by reason of the
Westerly Monsoon, namely, from the month of December to that of March,
easterly winds prevail upon the south coast, and are more regular
and strong in that space between the land and the parallel of Bass
Strait.* I have been told that the south-westerly gales that sometimes
occur during that season, seldom, if ever, blow home upon the coast;
and that when they do reach the land, they partake more of the character
of the sea breeze; be that as it may, a ship steering to the westward
should keep to the north of 40 degrees, in order to benefit by the
regularity of the wind, which to the south of that parallel generally
blows from some western quarter.

From April to October the westerly gales are very constant, and veer between South by West
and North by East; but, in the months of June and July, seldom veer to the southward of South-West
or northward of North-West; they are then accompanied by a deep and heavy sea. The wind, in
the summer season, generally revolves with the sun, and, as the atmosphere
becomes more dense, veers to the South-East, with fine weather.

(* Footnote.

Horsburgh volume 2 page 506.) The marine barometer is here of considerable importance, as its rise
always precedes a south-east wind, and its fall a change from the North-West; it seldom, however,
stands lower than twenty-nine and a half inches. The currents generally set to the north, and seldom
run with any velocity either to the east or west. A ship steering along this coast to the eastward,
bound to Port Jackson through Torres Strait, should steer upon the parallel of 41 degrees, to avoid
being thrown into the bight to the west of Cape Northumberland, where with a South-East wind, that
would otherwise be fair for carrying her through Bass Strait, she
would be detained probably a week.

Upon making Van Diemen's Land, she is ready for either a northerly
or a southerly wind; since, with the former, she can round Van Diemen's
Land, without suffering much detention, or materially lengthening
her voyage.

KING GEORGE THE THIRD'S SOUND was discovered by Captain Vancouver
in the year 1791, on his celebrated voyage to the North-west Coast
of America.

It offers an excellent resort for vessels, and is convenient for all the purposes of refitting,
wooding, and watering.

The natives are friendly; the banks of Oyster Harbour afford a large
abundance of oysters and other shell-fish, and the harbours and rivers
are well-stocked with fish and birds.

There are many convenient anchorages in the sound; the best place
for a large ship, when it is necessary to refit the rigging at the
same time that she is completing her wood and water, is PRINCESS ROYAL
HARBOUR; but for a small vessel, not drawing more than eleven feet,
OYSTER HARBOUR is preferable, because she is secured to within one
hundred yards of the shore, and therefore better situated for the
protection of her people at their occupations from the natives, who
are numerous, and will daily visit them.

But, for a ship only wanting fuel and water, there is a sandy bay in the south-west corner
of the sound, in which two or three streams of excellent water run into the sea over the sand,
from which a ship might complete her hold in a day or two, by digging a well to collect it.
Wood may also be procured at this place, but not of so large a size, or perhaps of so good
a quality as at other parts. This bay is readily found, by its being the first to the westward
of a rocky point, that projects from some remarkable bare sand hillocks, as also from its being
the second sandy beach to the westward of the low flat rocky islet
at the back of Seal Island.

The anchorage is good, being a bottom of sand and weeds, and is sufficiently protected from easterly
winds by BREAKSEA and MICHAELMAS ISLANDS. The anchorage between SEAL ISLAND and the first sandy
beach to the westward of BALD HEAD, with the low flat rocky islet
bearing west, in six or seven fathoms sand and weeds, should be preferred
during the summer months; for the easterly winds then prevail, and
sometimes blow strong, even as late as March; the anchorage is landlocked,
excepting in the direction of East by North, the only quarter to which
it is exposed, and even in that direction the angle subtending the
sea horizon is not greater than ten degrees of the circle, which is
of insignificant consequence.

There is no water nearer to this anchorage than in the sandy bay above mentioned, but the distance
is trifling for a ship that can send boats with men enough to protect themselves while employed
in filling the casks, for notwithstanding the friendly communication we have had with the
inhabitants of this sound, they are not to be trusted, unless their character is different from
the rest of their countrymen that we have seen.

Water is procured at Princess Royal and Oyster Harbours by digging holes at the edge of the
sand under the hills; but, at the latter place, the stream that we
used outside the bar affords plenty, of excellent quality, without
the trouble of digging.

Over the bar of Oyster Harbour there is not more than ten and a half feet at low water, and
in the neaps twelve feet at high water; but it is likely that, at spring-tides, there may
be fourteen feet, or perhaps more if the wind is blowing into the harbour; but during the springs
high water always takes place at night, and it would not, therefore, be prudent to attempt to pass
the bar at that time.

A vessel intending to go to Oyster Harbour should anchor off the sandy beach immediately to the
eastward of the entrance, that is, between the breakers off the point and the bar, in three
fathoms sand, bringing the summit of Green Island, in the harbour, on with the extremity of
the bushes of the west point of entrance, and the highest part of Breaksea Island in a line
with the outer point of the bay: a boat should then be sent to sound
the bar.

The mark for the deepest part is when the western summit of some
flat-topped land, at the back of Oyster Harbour, is a little open
of the rocks off the east side of the entrance.

     
     
     After the bar is passed, the channel
     is deepest when the centre of
     the flat land is kept midway between the points of entrance, avoiding
a spit of rocks that projects from the rocky point at the west end
of the watering beach.

The strongest winds are from the westward, and therefore bower anchors should be placed to
the south-west and north-west: warps and the stream cable will be sufficient to secure her from
easterly winds, as the hills rise immediately over the vessel on
that shore.

When Dalgetty had recovered, his first demand was to know over whom he had stumbled.

"He was a man a month since," answered a hollow and broken voice.

"And what is he now, then," said Dalgetty, "that he thinks it fitting to lie upon the lowest
step of the stairs, and clew'd up like a hurchin, that honourable cavaliers, who chance to
be in trouble, may break their noses over him?"

"What is he now?" replied the same voice; "he is a wretched trunk, from which the boughs have
one by one been lopped away, and which cares little how soon it is torn up and hewed into billets
for the furnace."

"Friend," said Dalgetty, "I am sorry for you; but PATIENZA, as the Spaniard says. If you had
but been as quiet as a log, as you call yourself, I should have saved some excoriations on
my hands and knees."

"You are a soldier," replied his fellow-prisoner; "do you complain on account of a fall for
which a boy would not bemoan himself?"

"A soldier?" said the Captain; "and how do you know, in this cursed dark cavern, that I am
a soldier?"

"I heard your armour clash as you fell," replied the prisoner, "and now I see it glimmer. When
you have remained as long as I in this darkness, your eyes will distinguish the smallest eft
that crawls on the floor."

"I had rather the devil picked them out!" said Dalgetty; "if this be the case, I shall wish
for a short turn of the rope, a soldier's prayer, and a leap from a ladder. But what sort of
provant have you got here--what food, I mean, brother in affliction?"

"Bread and water once a day," replied the voice.

"Prithee, friend, let me taste your loaf," said Dalgetty; "I hope we shall play good comrades
while we dwell together in this abominable pit."

"The loaf and jar of water," answered the other prisoner, "stand in the corner, two steps to
your right hand. Take them, and welcome. With earthly food I have wellnigh done."

Dalgetty did not wait for a second invitation, but, groping out the provisions, began to munch
at the stale black oaten loaf with as much heartiness as we have seen him play his part at
better viands.

"This bread," he said, muttering (with his mouth full at the same time), "is not very savoury;
nevertheless, it is not much worse than that which we ate at the famous leaguer at Werben,
where the valorous Gustavus foiled all the efforts of the celebrated Tilly, that terrible old
hero, who had driven two kings out of the field--namely, Ferdinand of Bohemia and Christian
of Denmark. And anent this water, which is none of the most sweet, I drink in the same to your
speedy deliverance, comrade, not forgetting mine own, and devoutly wishing it were Rhenish
wine, or humming Lubeck beer, at the least, were it but in honour of the pledge."

While Dalgetty ran on in this way, his teeth kept time with his tongue, and he speedily finished
the provisions which the benevolence or indifference of his companion in misfortune had abandoned
to his voracity. When this task was accomplished, he wrapped himself in his cloak, and seating
himself in a corner of the dungeon in which he could obtain a support on each side (for he
had always been an admirer of elbow-chairs, he remarked, even from his youth upward), he began
to question his fellow-captive.

"Mine honest friend," said he, "you and I, being comrades at bed and board, should be better
acquainted. I am Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket, and so forth, Major in a regiment of loyal
Irishes, and Envoy Extraordinary of a High and Mighty Lord, James Earl of Montrose.--Pray,
what may your name be?"

"It will avail you little to know," replied his more taciturn companion.

"Let me judge of that matter," answered the soldier.

"Well, then--Ranald MacEagh is my name--that is, Ranald Son of the Mist."

"Son of the Mist!" ejaculated Dalgetty. "Son of utter darkness, say I. But, Ranald, since that
is your name, how came you in possession of the provost's court of guard? what the devil brought
you here, that is to say?"

"My misfortunes and my crimes," answered Ranald. "Know ye the Knight of Ardenvohr?"

"I do know that honourable person," replied Dalgetty.

"But know ye where he now is?" replied Ranald.

"Fasting this day at Ardenvohr," answered the Envoy, "that he may feast to-morrow at Inverary;
in which last purpose if he chance to fail, my lease of human service will be something precarious."

"Then let him know, one claims his intercession, who is his worst foe and his best friend,"
answered Ranald.

"Truly I shall desire to carry a less questionable message," answered Dalgetty, "Sir Duncan
is not a person to play at reading riddles with."

"Craven Saxon," said the prisoner, "tell him I am the raven that, fifteen years since, stooped
on his tower of strength and the pledges he had left there--I am the hunter that found out
the wolfs den on the rock, and destroyed his offspring--I am the leader of the band which surprised
Ardenvohr yesterday was fifteen years, and gave his four children to the sword."

"Truly, my honest friend," said Dalgetty, "if that is your best recommendation to Sir Duncan's
favour, I would pretermit my pleading thereupon, in respect I have observed that even the animal
creation are incensed against those who intromit with their offspring forcibly, much more any
rational and Christian creatures, who have had violence done upon their small family. But I
pray you in courtesy to tell me, whether you assailed the castle from the hillock called Drumsnab,
whilk I uphold to be the true point of attack, unless it were to be protected by a sconce."

"We ascended the cliff by ladders of withies or saplings," said the prisoner, "drawn up by
an accomplice and clansman, who had served six months in the castle to enjoy that one night
of unlimited vengeance. The owl whooped around us as we hung betwixt heaven and earth; the
tide roared against the foot of the rock, and dashed asunder our skiff, yet no man's heart
failed him. In the morning there was blood and ashes, where there had been peace and joy at
the sunset."

"It was a pretty camisade, I doubt not, Ranald MacEagh, a very sufficient onslaught, and not
unworthily discharged. Nevertheless, I would have pressed the house from that little hillock
called Drumsnab. But yours is a pretty irregular Scythian fashion of warfare, Ranald, much
resembling that of Turks, Tartars, and other Asiatic people.--But the reason, my friend, the
cause of this war--the TETERRIMA CAUSA, as I may say? Deliver me that, Ranald."

"We had been pushed at by the M'Aulays, and other western tribes," said Ranald, "till our possessions
became unsafe for us."

"Ah ha!" said Dalgetty; "I have faint remembrance of having heard of that matter. Did you not
put bread and cheese into a man's mouth, when he had never a stomach whereunto to transmit
the same?"

"You have heard, then," said Ranald, "the tale of our revenge on the haughty forester?"

"I bethink me that I have," said Dalgetty, "and that not of an old date. It was a merry jest
that, of cramming the bread into the dead man's mouth, but somewhat too wild and salvage for
civilized acceptation, besides wasting the good victuals. I have seen when at a siege or a
leaguer, Ranald, a living soldier would have been the better, Ranald, for that crust of bread,
whilk you threw away on a dead pow."

"We were attacked by Sir Duncan," continued MacEagh, "and my brother was slain--his head was
withering on the battlements which we scaled--I vowed revenge, and it is a vow I have never
broken."

"It may be so," said Dalgetty; "and every thorough-bred soldier will confess that revenge is
a sweet morsel; but in what manner this story will interest Sir Duncan in your justification,
unless it should move him to intercede with the Marquis to change the manner thereof from hanging,
or simple suspension, to breaking your limbs on the roue or wheel, with the coulter of a plough,
or otherwise putting you to death by torture, surpasses my comprehension. Were I you, Ranald,
I would be for miskenning Sir Duncan, keeping my own secret, and departing quietly by suffocation,
like your ancestors before you."

"Yet hearken, stranger," said the Highlander. "Sir Duncan of Ardenvohr had four children. Three
died under our dirks, but the fourth survives; and more would he give to dandle on his knee
the fourth child which remains, than to rack these old bones, which care little for the utmost
indulgence of his wrath. One word, if I list to speak it, could turn his day of humiliation
and fasting into a day of thankfulness and rejoicing, and breaking of bread. O, I know it by
my own heart? Dearer to me is the child Kenneth, who chaseth the butterfly on the banks of
the Aven, than ten sons who are mouldering in earth, or are preyed on by the fowls of the air."

"I presume, Ranald," continued Dalgetty, "that the three pretty fellows whom I saw yonder in
the market-place, strung up by the head like rizzer'd haddocks, claimed some interest in you?"

There was a brief pause ere the Highlander replied, in a tone of strong emotion,--"They were
my sons, stranger--they were my sons!--blood of my blood--bone of my bone!--fleet of foot--unerring
in aim--unvanquished by foemen till the sons of Diarmid overcame them by numbers! Why do I
wish to survive them? The old trunk will less feel the rending up of its roots, than it has
felt the lopping off of its graceful boughs. But Kenneth must be trained to revenge--the young
eagle must learn from the old how to stoop on his foes. I will purchase for his sake my life
and my freedom, by discovering my secret to the Knight of Ardenvohr."

"You may attain your end more easily," said a third voice, mingling in the conference, "by
entrusting it to me."

All Highlanders are superstitious. "The Enemy of Mankind is among us!" said Ranald MacEagh,
springing to his feet. His chains clattered as he rose, while he drew himself as far as they
permitted from the quarter whence the voice appeared to proceed. His fear in some degree communicated
itself to Captain Dalgetty, who began to repeat, in a sort of polyglot gibberish, all the exorcisms
he had ever heard of, without being able to remember more than a word or two of each.

"IN NOMINE DOMINI, as we said at Mareschal-College--SANTISSMA MADRE DI DIOS, as the Spaniard
has it--ALLE GUTEN GEISTER LOBEN DEN HERRN, saith the blessed Psalmist, in Dr. Luther's translation--"

"A truce with your exorcisms," said the voice they had heard before; "though I come strangely
among you, I am mortal like yourselves, and my assistance may avail you in your present streight,
if you are not too proud to be counselled."

While the stranger thus spoke, he withdrew the shade of a dark lantern, by whose feeble light
Dalgetty could only discern that the speaker who had thus mysteriously united himself to their
company, and mixed in their conversation, was a tall man, dressed in a livery cloak of the
Marquis. His first glance was to his feet, but he saw neither the cloven foot which Scottish
legends assign to the foul fiend, nor the horse's hoof by which he is distinguished in Germany.
His first enquiry was, how the stranger had come among them?

"For," said he, "the creak of these rusty bars would have been heard had the door been made
patent; and if you passed through the keyhole, truly, sir, put what face you will on it, you
are not fit to be enrolled in a regiment of living men."

"I reserve my secret," answered the stranger, "until you shall merit the discovery by communicating
to me some of yours. It may be that I shall be moved to let you out where I myself came in."

"It cannot be through the keyhole, then," said Captain Dalgetty, "for my corslet would stick
in the passage, were it possible that my head-piece could get through. As for secrets, I have
none of my own, and but few appertaining to others. But impart to us what secrets you desire
to know; or, as Professor Snufflegreek used to say at the Mareschal-College, Aberdeen, speak
that I may know thee."

"It is not with you I have first to do," replied the stranger, turning his light full on the
mild and wasted features, and the large limbs of the Highlander, Ranald MacEagh, who, close
drawn up against the walls of the dungeon, seemed yet uncertain whether his guest was a living
being.

"I have brought you something, my friend," said the stranger, in a more soothing tone, "to
mend your fare; if you are to die to-morrow, it is no reason wherefore you should not live
to-night."

"None at all--no reason in the creation," replied the ready Captain Dalgetty, who forthwith
began to unpack the contents of a small basket which the stranger had brought under his cloak,
while the Highlander, either in suspicion or disdain, paid no attention to the good cheer.

"Here's to thee, my friend," said the Captain, who, having already dispatched a huge piece
of roasted kid, was now taking a pull at the wine-flask. "What is thy name, my good friend?"

"Murdoch Campbell, sir," answered the servant, "a lackey of the Marquis of Argyle, and occasionally
acting as under-warden."

"Then here is to thee once more, Murdoch," said Dalgetty, "drinking to you by your proper name
for the better luck sake. This wine I take to be Calcavella. Well, honest Murdoch, I take it
on me to say, thou deservest to be upper-warden, since thou showest thyself twenty times better
acquainted with the way of victualling honest gentlemen that are under misfortune, than thy
principal. (* Footnote. Volume 1 book 1 chapter 11 and volume 2 book 2 chapter
11.) (** Footnote.

EAST COAST.

The south-east trade cannot be said to blow home upon that part of
the coast of New South Wales, which lies between Breaksea Spit and
Port Jackson, except during the summer months when winds from that
quarter prevail and often blow very hard; they are then accompanied
by heavy rains and very thick weather: generally however from October
to April they assume the character of a sea-breeze and, excepting
during their suspension by south-easterly or westerly gales, are very
regular.

In the month of December strong south-easterly gales are not uncommon; and in February and March
they are very frequent. In the month of December hot winds from
the north-west will sometimes last for two or three days, and are almost
always suddenly terminated by a gust of wind from the southward. The
most prevailing winds, during all seasons, are from the south, and are probably
oftener from the eastward of that point than from the westward. The current
always sets to the southward, and has been found by us on several
occasions to set the strongest during a South-East gale.

The general course of the current is in the direction of the coast, but this is not constant;
for, between Port Stevens and to the southward of Port Jackson, it
sometimes sets in towards it.

In a gale from the South-East in the month of December 1820, it must
have been setting as much to the westward as South-West. This should
be attended to, particularly in south-easterly gales, and an offing
preserved to provide against the wind's veering to East-South-East
and East by South, which is often the case; and then the current,
setting upon the weather-bow, will place the vessel, in a dark night,
in considerable danger.

The rate of the current is generally about one mile per hour, but it sometimes though rarely
runs at the rate of nearly three knots.

To the eastward in the space between New South Wales and New Caledonia the current sets to
the North-West, which carries a great body of water into the bight
between the former and New Guinea; but as Torres Strait offers but
a very inconsiderable outlet the stream is turned, and sets to the
southward until it gradually joins the easterly current which, from
the prevalence of westerly winds, is constantly running between Van
Diemen's Land and Cape Horn.

The tides in this interval are of little consequence and in few places
rise higher than six feet at the springs, excepting where they are affected
by local circumstances.

There are however other anchorages that might be resorted to in the
event of being thrown upon a lee shore, which are equally good with
Port Hunter, Shoal Bay, and Glass House Bay.

There is an anchorage behind Black Head to the north of Point Stevens which Lieutenant Oxley
discovered to be an island; Port Macquarie also affords shelter for small vessels; and on the
north side of Smoky Cape there is good shelter from southerly or south-easterly winds: but the whole
of these, excepting Broken Bay, are only attainable by small vessels. A large ship must keep
an offing; and as the coast is not at all indented the wind must
blow very hard, and the ship sail very badly, to be placed in danger.

Wide Bay however is a very good port, and affords a safe and secure shelter;
the anchorage being protected by a reef which fronts it. PORT JACKSON.
The Lighthouse, or Macquarie Tower, is in latitude 33 degrees 51 minutes
11 seconds South and longitude 4 minutes 29.8 seconds east of Sir Thomas
Brisbane's Observatory at Sydney, or 151 degrees 19 minutes 45 seconds
East of Greenwich. It is a revolving light and may be seen at the distance
of ten leagues.

The Inner South Head bears from it North 20 degrees West* and is distant about two thousand
five hundred yards.

The North Head bears from the Inner South Head North 53 degrees East by compass, about two thousand
four hundred and forty yards; and the narrowest part of the entrance,
which is between the Inner North and South Heads, is a little more
than eight hundred yards, so that there is abundance of room to work
in should the wind blow out of the Port.

On arriving off the lighthouse, steer in between the North and South Heads until you are past
the line of bearing of the Outer North, and the Inner South Heads: then haul round the latter,
but avoid a reef of rocks that extends for two hundred yards off the point, and steer for
Middle Head, a projecting cliff at the bottom of the bay, until the harbour opens round the Inner
South Head; you may then pass on either side of the Sow and Pigs; but the eastern channel, although
the narrowest, is perhaps the best; but this, in a great measure,
depends upon the direction of the wind.

The eastern channel is the deepest. The Sow and Pigs, or Middle Ground, is the only danger in Port
Jackson: it is a bank of sand and rocks, of about eight hundred yards
in length, by about three hundred and fifty in breadth: its length
being in the direction of the harbour; a very small portion of it
is dry, and consists of a few rocks, upon which the sea almost always
breaks; they are situated upon the outer end of the shoal, and are
in the line of bearing of the Outer North and the Inner South Heads.

The south-western tail of the bank is chiefly of sand, with rocks
scattered about it; but, on the greater portion of it, there is twelve
feet water; it gradually deepens to three and a quarter fathoms, which
is beyond the rocky limits of the shoal.

To sail through the Western Channel, which is from one-third to half a mile
wide, steer towards George's Head, a high rocky head, about three
quarters of a mile above Middle Head, keeping it in sight upon the
larboard bow, and the sea horizon open between the points of entrance,
until you are within the line of bearing between a small sandy beach
on the western shore and Green Point; the latter is a grassy mound,
the south head of Camp Cove.

Then steer for George's Head, and gradually round it: when you have
passed the line of bearing between it and Green Point, and opened
the sandy beach of Watson's Bay, steer boldly up the harbour.

In rounding Point Bradley, there is a rocky shelf that runs off the point
for perhaps one hundred yards.

Pass on either side of Pinch-gut Island, and, in hauling into Sydney
Cove, avoid a rocky reef that extends off Point Bennelong for rather
more than two hundred yards into the sea. To sail through the Eastern
Channel, or to the eastward of the Sow and Pigs, haul round the Inner
South Head until the summit of the Inner North Head is in a line
with the inner trend of the former, bearing by compass North 23 1/
2 degrees East; then steer South-South-West until you have passed
Green Point, when the course may be directed at pleasure up the harbour.

In turning to windward, go no nearer to the Sow and Pigs than three and
a quarter fathoms, unless your vessel is small; nor within two hundred
yards of the shore, for although it is bold in most parts close to,
yet there are some few straggling rocks off the south point of Watson's
Bay, and also some round Shark's Island. There is good anchorage in
all parts of the harbour, when within Middle and the South Heads.
There is also anchorage in North Harbour, but not to be recommended,
for the swell sometimes rolls into the mouth of the harbour; no swell
can, however, affect the anchorage between Middle Head and the Sow
and Pigs.

SYDNEY COVE is nearly half a mile deep, and four hundred yards wide, and will contain more than twenty
ships swinging at their moorings. The shores are bold to, and, excepting the rocky shoals that
extend off Point Bennelong and Point Dawes, ships may approach very near. On the eastern side
of the cove is a convenient place for heaving down: it belongs to
the government, but merchant ships may use it, by paying a small
sum according to the length of time it is engaged. Wood and water are
easily obtained from the north shore of the port; the former may
be cut close to the beach; the latter is collected in tanks, and,
excepting during a very dry season, is always abundant.

The tide rises occasionally at the springs as much as eight feet, but six feet is the general rise;
it is high water at Sydney Cove at half past eight o'clock, but at the heads, it precedes this
time by a quarter of an hour.

The variation of the magnetic needle observed on shore by Lieutenant Roe: at Sydney Cove in 1822,
to be 8 degrees 42 minutes East, at Garden Island 9 degrees 6 minutes
East, at Camp Cove 9 degrees 42 minutes East. As all navigators are,
or ought to be, supplied with Captain Horsburgh's Indian Directory,
it has not been thought necessary to descant further upon the nature
of the winds and currents of the east coast; since this subject has
been so fully treated upon, in the above valuable book, in the section
that commences at page 501.

Captain Horsburgh has also described the entrance of Botany Bay at page 502, and of Broken Bay,
at page 505. According to Lieutenant Jeffreys, R. N., who commanded
the hired armed transport Kangaroo, the latter harbour has a bar
stretching across from the south to the north head, on which there
is not less than five fathoms water.

PORT HUNTER is situated fifty-nine miles North 22 degrees East (true) from the entrance of Port Jackson.
There is a lighthouse at its southern entrance, and pilots are established who come off to vessels
that arrive. The entrance is round the Nobby (latitude 32 degrees 56 minutes,
longitude 151 degrees 43 1/ 4 minutes) an insulated rock: and the
passage is indicated by keeping two lights, that are placed at a distance
from each other at the wharf, in a line: the anchorage is about two
hundred yards from the wharf in three fathoms.

The shoals on the west side are dangerous, and several vessels have been wrecked upon them in going
in. The above information is from a plan drawn by Lieutenant Jeffreys, in the Hydrographical
Office at the Admiralty: it was drawn in the year 1816; since which a portion of the labour
of the convicts has been employed in building a breakwater, or pier,
from the south entrance to the Nobby Rock, which will tend to direct
the stream of tide through the channel, and also protect it from the
surf and swell, which, during a south-east gale, must render the harbour
of dangerous access.

The town was formerly called King's Town, but it has since been changed to that of Newcastle, and the
appellation of the Coal River has partly superseded the more legitimate name of Port Hunter. PORT
STEPHENS is easy to enter, but not to sail from, unless the wind is fair, on account of the
shoals that are near its entrance. Point Stephens is in latitude 32
degrees 46 1/ 2 minutes, longitude 152 degrees 9 minutes 45 seconds.

BLACK HEAD is an island, behind which there is very good anchorage;
the head is in latitude 32 degrees 38 minutes 20 seconds. Between Black
Head, and the hills called the Brothers, are WALLIS'Lake, in latitude
32 degrees 11 minutes 50 seconds, HARRINGTON'S Lake, in 32 degrees
0 minutes, and FARQUHAR'S Lake, in latitude 31 degrees 54 minutes;
they were discovered by Lieutenant Oxley on his return from his land
journey in 1819; they have all shoal entrances, and are merely the
outlets of extensive lagoons, which receive the streams from the hills,
and occupy a considerable space between the coast and the mountains.

In latitude 31 degrees 47 minutes 50 seconds, and at the distance of two miles and a quarter from
the shore, is a dangerous reef, on which the sea constantly breaks;
it was named by Lieutenant Oxley, who discovered it, the MERMAID'S
REEF; it is about a quarter of a mile in extent, and bears South 85
degrees East from the South Brother; a small detached portion of the
reef is separated from the principal rock, within which there appeared
to be a narrow navigable channel.

A quarter of a mile without the latter we found sixteen fathoms water. Round the point under
the North Brother Hill, is CAMDEN HAVEN, the particulars respecting
its entrance (in latitude 31 degrees 41 minutes, longitude 152 degrees)
are not yet known, but it is supposed to be very shoal.

PORT MACQUARIE is the embouchure or the River Hastings; its entrance is about two miles and two-thirds
to the North-North-West of Tacking Point. It is a bar harbour, and,
like Port Hunter, is of dangerous access, on account of the banks
of sand that project from the low north sandy point of entrance, on
which the sea breaks and forms sand rollers; these however serve to
indicate the edge of the channel, which is about ninety yards wide.

The south shore extends in a North-North-West direction from Tacking Point to Green Mound (a remarkable
conical shaped hillock) whence the south shore of the entrance trends
in nearly a west direction to the narrow entrance opposite Pelican
Point.

Between Green Mound and the next projection the bar stretches across
towards the sand rollers, and is about one hundred and twenty yards
in extent. The deepest channel over it is within thirty yards of two
sunken rocks, the outermost of which bears from Green Mound North
45 degrees West (true) or North 55 degrees West, nine hundred yards.

When Green Mound Point and the next point to the southward of it
are in a line, you are within a few yards of the shoalest part of
the bar.

After passing the bar, there are from two to four fathoms water.

Since the
examination of this harbour, a penal settlement has been formed,
and a pilot appointed to conduct vessels in and out.

Off the entrance is a high rocky
islet, the Nobby, within which the channel is shoal and dangerous
to pass.

There is good anchorage in four, five, or six fathoms, about half a mile outside of the bar,
on a bank of sand, which gradually deepens for three miles to fourteen fathoms, upon any part
of which a vessel may anchor to await high water. Latitude of its entrance
31 degrees 25 minutes 32 seconds South. Longitude 152 degrees 57
minutes 25 seconds East.

Variation of the compass 10 degrees 11 minutes 0 seconds East. High
water at full and change 8 hours 56 minutes.

Tide rises four to five feet. The south-east trend of SMOKY CAPE is in
latitude 30 degrees 55 minutes 40 seconds, longitude 153 degrees 4
minutes 30 seconds. TRIAL BAY, so named by Lieutenant Oxley, who
anchored in it on a second expedition to examine Port Macquarie previous
to its being settled, is a convenient roadstead during southerly winds:
it is situated on the north side of Smoky Cape, and affords an anchorage
in three fathoms, protected from the sea as far as North-East by
East.

Fresh water may be procured from a stream that runs over the beach. Four
miles to the north of Smoky Cape is an inlet having a bar harbour,
on which there is but eight feet water.

CAPE BYRON, in latitude 28 degrees 38 minutes 10 seconds, longitude 153 degrees 37 minutes
20 seconds.

MOUNT WARNING is in latitude 28 degrees 24 minutes, longitude 153
degrees 12 minutes. THE TWEED is a river communicating with the sea by a
bar, on which there is twelve feet water, it is situated about a
mile and a half to the north of a small island off Point Danger, which
lies in latitude 28 degrees 8 minutes.

In latitude 28 degrees there is a communication with the inlet at the
south side of Moreton Bay, insulating the land whose north extremity
is Point Lookout.

The entrance of this inlet is shoal and only passable for boats. MORETON BAY.* In addition to the
account of this bay by Captain Flinders,** Lieutenant Oxley has lately
discovered the Brisbane, a very fine fresh water river that falls into it
in 27 degrees 25 minutes latitude, abreast of the strait between Moreton
Island and Point Lookout. (* Footnote. This bay was originally called
Glass House Bay, in allusion to the name given by Captain Cook to
three remarkable glass house-looking hills near Pumice-stone River;
but as Captain Cook bestowed the name of Moreton Bay upon the strait
to the south of Moreton Island, that name has a prior claim, and is
now generally adopted.

A penal settlement has lately been formed at Red Cliff Point, which is
situated a little to the north of the embouchure of the Brisbane River.)
(* Footnote.

Flinders Introduction cxcvi.) WIDE BAY, the entrance of which is in latitude 25 degrees 49 minutes,
was examined by Mr. Edwardson, the master of one of the government colonial vessels; he found it
to be a good port, having in its entrance a channel of not less than
three fathoms deep; and to communicate with Hervey's Bay, thus making
an island of the Great Sandy Peninsula.

INDIAN HEAD is in latitude 25 degrees 1 minute, and longitude 153 degrees 23 minutes. NORTH-EAST
COAST.

The south-east trade is occasionally suspended near the shore by north-easterly
winds during the months of June, July, and August, the only season that
I have any experience of the winds and weather upon the north-east coast;
the weather is generally thick and cloudy, and often accompanied with
showers of rain, particularly during the two first months. In the
neighbourhood of Breaksea Spit in May, 1819, we experienced a fresh gale
from the westward, after which it veered to south-east with thick
rainy weather: and in the neighbourhood of Cape Capricorn, in June,
1821, we had a fresh gale from the north-east.

Among the Northumberland Islands, we have experienced westerly winds, but they blew in light
breezes with fine weather. Even as far as Cape Grafton the wind
cannot be said to be steady. To the north of this point, however, the winds
are always constant from the southward, and seldom or ever veer to
the westward of south, or to the eastward of South-East by East; they
generally are from South-South-East: fresh winds cause the weather to
be hazy, and sometimes bring rain, which renders the navigation among
the reefs in some degree dangerous.

In my last voyage up the coast, on approaching Cape York, the weather
was so thick that we could not see more than a quarter of a mile ahead;
we, however, ran from reef to reef, and always saw them in sufficient
time to alter the course if we were in error.

In such a navigation cloudy dull weather is, however, rather an advantage than otherwise, because
the reefs, from the absence of the glare of the sun, are more distinctly
seen, particularly in the afternoon, when the sun is to the westward.

Later in the season (August 1820) we had more settled weather, for the
wind seldom veered to the southward of South-South-East, or eastward
of East-South-East; and this weather accompanied us from Breaksea
Spit, through Torres Strait.

The best time for passing up this coast is in April and the beginning
of May, or between the middle of August and latter end of October; in
the months of June and July, the passage is not apparently so safe,
on account of the changeable weather that may be encountered, which
to a stranger would create much anxiety, although no real danger.

Strict attention to these directions and confidence in the chart, with
a cautious lookout will, however, neutralize all the dangers that
thick weather may produce in this navigation. The tides and currents
in this part are not of much consequence.

The rise of tide is trifling, the flood-tide sets to the North-West, but at a very slow rate. In the
neighbourhood of the reefs, the stream sometimes sets at the rate
of a knot or in some cases at two knots, but for a small distance
it is scarcely perceptible.

There appeared rather to be a gentle drain of current to the North-West.
HERVEY'S BAY and BUSTARD BAY have been already described by Captains
Cook and Flinders.



"Hold, while you live," whispered Dalgetty, laying hold on him. "We must be perdue, if possible.
So bar we this door, that it may be thought M'Callum More would be private--and now let me
make a reconnaissance for the private passage."

By looking behind the tapestry in various places, the Captain at length discovered a private
door, and behind that a winding passage, terminated by another door, which doubtless entered
the chapel. But what was his disagreeable surprise to hear, on the other side of this second
door, the sonorous voice of a divine in the act of preaching.

"This made the villain," he said, "recommend this to us as a private passage. I am strongly
tempted to return and cut his throat."

He then opened very gently the door, which led into a latticed gallery used by the Marquis
himself, the curtains of which were drawn, perhaps with the purpose of having it supposed that
he was engaged in attendance upon divine worship, when, in fact, he was absent upon his secular
affairs. There was no other person in the seat; for the family of the Marquis,--such was the
high state maintained in those days,--sate during service in another gallery, placed somewhat
lower than that of the great man himself. This being the case, Captain Dalgetty ventured to
ensconce himself in the gallery, of which he carefully secured the door.

Never (although the expression be a bold one) was a sermon listened to with more impatience,
and less edification, on the part of one, at least, of the audience. The Captain heard SIXTEENTHLY-SEVENTEENTHLY-EIGHTEENTHLY
and TO CONCLUDE, with a sort of feeling like protracted despair. But no man can lecture (for
the service was called a lecture) for ever; and the discourse was at length closed, the clergyman
not failing to make a profound bow towards the latticed gallery, little suspecting whom he
honoured by that reverence. To judge from the haste with which they dispersed, the domestics
of the Marquis were scarce more pleased with their late occupation than the anxious Captain
Dalgetty; indeed, many of them being Highlandmen, had the excuse of not understanding a single
word which the clergyman spoke, although they gave their attendance on his doctrine by the
special order of M'Callum More, and would have done so had the preacher been a Turkish Imaum.

But although the congregation dispersed thus rapidly, the divine remained behind in the chapel,
and, walking up and down its Gothic precincts, seemed either to be meditating on what he had
just been delivering, or preparing a fresh discourse for the next opportunity. Bold as he was,
Dalgetty hesitated what he ought to do. Time, however, pressed, and every moment increased
the chance of their escape being discovered by the jailor visiting the dungeon perhaps before
his wonted time, and discovering the exchange which had been made there. At length, whispering
Ranald, who watched all his motions, to follow him and preserve his countenance, Captain Dalgetty,
with a very composed air, descended a flight of steps which led from the gallery into the body
of the chapel. A less experienced adventurer would have endeavoured to pass the worthy clergyman
rapidly, in hopes to escape unnoticed. But the Captain, who foresaw the manifest danger of
failing in such an attempt, walked gravely to meet the divine upon his walk in the midst of
the chancel, and, pulling off his cap, was about to pass him after a formal reverence. But
what was his surprise to view in the preacher the very same person with whom he had dined in
the castle of Ardenvohr! Yet he speedily recovered his composure; and ere the clergyman could
speak, was the first to address him. "I could not," he said, "leave this mansion without bequeathing
to you, my very reverend sir, my humble thanks for the homily with which you have this evening
favoured us."

"I did not observe, sir," said the clergyman, "that you were in the chapel."

"It pleased the honourable Marquis," said Dalgetty, modestly, "to grace me with a seat in his
own gallery." The divine bowed low at this intimation, knowing that such an honour was only
vouchsafed to persons of very high rank. "It has been my fate, sir," said the Captain, "in
the sort of wandering life which I have led, to have heard different preachers of different
religions--as for example, Lutheran, Evangelical, Reformed, Calvinistical, and so forth, but
never have I listened to such a homily as yours."

"Call it a lecture, worthy sir," said the divine, "such is the phrase of our church."

"Lecture or homily," said Dalgetty, "it was, as the High Germans say, GANZ FORTRE FLICH; and
I could not leave this place without testifying unto you what inward emotions I have undergone
during your edifying prelection; and how I am touched to the quick, that I should yesterday,
during the refection, have seemed to infringe on the respect due to such a person as yourself."

"Alas! my worthy sir," said the clergyman, "we meet in this world as in the Valley of the Shadow
of Death, not knowing against whom we may chance to encounter. In truth, it is no matter of
marvel, if we sometimes jostle those, to whom, if known, we would yield all respect. Surely,
sir, I would rather have taken you for a profane malignant than for such a devout person as
you prove, who reverences the great Master even in the meanest of his servants."

"It is always my custom to do so, learned sir," answered Dalgetty; "for in the service of the
immortal Gustavus--but I detain you from your meditations,"--his desire to speak of the King
of Sweden being for once overpowered by the necessity of his circumstances.

"By no means, my worthy sir," said the clergyman. "What was, I pray you, the order of that
great Prince, whose memory is so dear to every Protestant bosom?"

"Sir, the drums beat to prayers morning and evening, as regularly as for parade; and if a soldier
passed without saluting the chaplain, he had an hour's ride on the wooden mare for his pains.
Sir, I wish you a very good evening--I am obliged to depart the castle under M'Callum More's
passport."

"Stay one instant, sir," said the preacher; "is there nothing I can do to testify my respect
for the pupil of the great Gustavus, and so admirable a judge of preaching?"

"Nothing, sir," said the Captain, "but to shew me the nearest way to the gate--and if you would
have the kindness," he added, with great effrontery, "to let a servant bring my horse with
him, the dark grey gelding--call him Gustavus, and he will prick up his ears--for I know not
where the castle-stables are situated, and my guide," he added, looking at Ranald, "speaks
no English."

"I hasten to accommodate you," said the clergyman; "your way lies through that cloistered passage."

"Now, Heaven's blessing upon your vanity!" said the Captain to himself. "I was afraid I would
have had to march off without Gustavus."

In fact, so effectually did the chaplain exert himself in behalf of so excellent a judge of
composition, that while Dalgetty was parleying with the sentinels at the drawbridge, showing
his passport, and giving the watchword, a servant brought him his horse, ready saddled for
the journey. In another place, the Captain's sudden appearance at large after having been publicly
sent to prison, might have excited suspicion and enquiry; but the officers and domestics of
the Marquis were accustomed to the mysterious policy of their master, and never supposed aught
else than that he had been liberated and intrusted with some private commission by their master.
In this belief, and having received the parole, they gave him free passage.

Dalgetty rode slowly through the town of Inverary, the outlaw attending upon him like a foot-page
at his horse's shoulder. As they passed the gibbet, the old man looked on the bodies and wrung
his hands. The look and gesture was momentary, but expressive of indescribable anguish. Instantly
recovering himself, Ranald, in passing, whispered somewhat to one of the females, who, like
Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, seemed engaged in watching and mourning the victims of feudal
injustice and cruelty. The woman started at his voice, but immediately collected herself and
returned for answer a slight inclination of the head.

Dalgetty continued his way out of the town, uncertain whether he should try to seize or hire
a boat and cross the lake, or plunge into the woods, and there conceal himself from pursuit.
In the former event he was liable to be instantly pursued by the galleys of the Marquis, which
lay ready for sailing, their long yard-arms pointing to the wind, and what hope could he have
in an ordinary Highland fishing-boat to escape from them? "The DOMESTIC FINISH." No high gloss
to look like Celluloid or Paper Collars, but a nice medium finish that has all the appearance
of new work. High gloss finish is all out of style. Gentlemen these
times always ask for the "Domestic Finish." The town lay now behind him, yet what hand to turn to
for safety he was unable to determine, and began to be sensible, that in escaping from the
dungeon at Inverary, desperate as the matter seemed, he had only accomplished the easiest part
of a difficult task. If retaken, his fate was now certain; for the personal injury he had offered
to a man so powerful and so vindictive, could be atoned for only by instant death. While he
pondered these distressing reflections, and looked around with a countenance which plainly
expressed indecision, Ranald MacEagh suddenly asked him, "which way he intended to journey?"

"And that, honest comrade," answered Dalgetty, "is precisely the question which I cannot answer
you. Truly I begin to hold the opinion, Ranald, that we had better have stuck by the brown
loaf and water-pitcher until Sir Duncan arrived, who, for his own honour, must have made some
fight for me."

"Saxon," answered MacEagh, "do not regret having exchanged the foul breath of yonder dungeon
for the free air of heaven. Above all, repent not that you have served a Son of the Mist. Put
yourself under my guidance, and I will warrant your safety with my head." 

An armed party was stationed above the beach to prevent any attack
from the natives, but they did not show themselves.

August 9.

On the following day we again heard them shouting and hallooing but
it was some time before we could observe their situation; at last
five were discovered by the aid of a telescope, seated on the summit
of a hill behind the beach, occupied in making spears; at a little
distance were two others, one of whom was distinguished to be the
native that had escaped unwounded; the other, a stranger, was chopping
a branch off a tree, which he was seen to trim and scrape into a rough
spear.

During the time they were thus employed, they frequently hallooed to us; no notice was however
taken of their cries, although the temptation was very great of firing
a shot over their heads to show them that they were still within our
reach.

As soon as they had finished their work and had made about a dozen spears, they all got up and
walked away.

After they disappeared behind the hill it was thought not unlikely that they would attack our
people at the watering-place; the party were therefore sent away in the afternoon well armed,
but the natives did not make their appearance, and the boats returned at sunset without having been
disturbed.

The tide was so trifling and the difficulty of loading the boat so
great that only ninety gallons of water were procured; and as we were
not likely to make quicker progress unless we waited for the spring-tides,
we gave up all idea of completing our water, and made preparations
to leave the bay.

August 10.

On the following day (10th) as there was no wind all the morning, I sent for another turn of
water but only obtained enough for one day's issue; for the tide
did not rise more than four feet.

In the meantime I visited the extreme point on the west side of the
bay, and examined in my way some openings in the land that, from their
appearance, promised to afford water: as it was low tide I could not
enter them, for they were blocked up by banks of sand and rocks; but
on my return the tide was higher, and I pulled about one mile up the
northernmost inlet, where I was again stopped by the shoalness of
the water. I tell you, you shall have him
again; but if you never saw the animal, is not life better than the best colt ever mare foaled?"

"And that is true too, mine honest friend," sighed Dalgetty; "yet if you knew but the value
of Gustavus, and the things we two have done and suffered together--See, he turns back to look
at me!--Be kind to him, my good breechless friend, and I will requite you well." So saying,
and withal sniffling a little to swallow his grief, he turned from the heart-rending spectacle
in order to follow his guide. 

The channel within the heads is from two to four miles wide, and has anchorage in it between
six and seven fathoms, mud. The port gradually contracts as it approaches the narrow mouth
of the inlet to a mile and a half; it then trends to the south for six miles, where it is divided
into two arms, that run up for six or seven miles more to the foot of a range of wooded hills,
one of which is MOUNT GOODWIN. The western side of the inlet is occupied by a bank of clay, that dries
at low water. At about three miles within the narrow entrance on the western side, there is an inlet,
and above this the anchorage is good, the bottom being of clay, in which is mixed a small
ironstone pebble: between the inlet and the narrows, the bottom is
deep and rocky.

Between Cape Hay, in latitude 14 degrees 1 minute 30 seconds, and longitude 130 degrees 27
minutes 30 seconds, and POINT PEARCE, in latitude 14 degrees 28 minutes 30 seconds, longitude 130
degrees 17 minutes 15 seconds, the coast is still low, and was only seen at a distance. Off
the latter point there is a reef which does not extend to a greater distance than a mile and
a half.

To the south of Point Pearce there is a very extensive opening, which bad weather and other circumstances
did not allow of being examined.

It is nearly thirty miles wide, and the depth across between eight
fathoms and twenty.

The south shore is lined by a considerable reef extending for seven miles from the beach. The
land was very indistinctly seen at the back, but, in one part, there
was a space of more than eighteen miles, in which nothing was visible.

The strength of the tide, the bottom being sandy instead of mud, as in other parts of the neighbourhood,
and the rocky overfalls on either side of the entrance bespeak this opening to be of considerable
size and importance.

The shore to CAPE DOMETT was very indistinctly seen. It occupies an
extent of forty-five miles, and is fronted by extensive reefs, which
project for twenty-three miles; the north extremity of the shoal water
is twenty-six miles, nearly due west from Cape Pearce. It terminates
with a narrow point, and then trends in to the South-West towards
the coast. I entreat you, mine honest friend Ranald, to shift for yourself, and leave me to my fortune,
as the Lion of the North, the immortal Gustavus Adolphus, my never-to-be-forgotten master (whom
you must surely have heard of, Ranald, though you may have heard of no one else), said to Francis
Albert, Duke of Saxe-Lauenburgh, when he was mortally wounded on the plains of Lutzen. Neither
despair altogether of my safety, Ranald, seeing I have been in as great pinches as this in
Germany--more especially, I remember me, that at the fatal battle of Nerlingen--after which
I changed service--"

"If you would save your father's son's breath to help his child out of trouble, instead of
wasting it upon the tales of Seannachies," said Ranald, who now grew impatient of the Captain's
loquacity, "or if your feet could travel as fast as your tongue, you might yet lay your head
on an unbloody pillow to-night."

"Something there is like military skill in that," replied the Captain, "although wantonly and
irreverently spoken to an officer of rank. But I hold it good to pardon such freedoms on a
march, in respect of the Saturnalian license indulged in such cases to the troops of all nations.
And now, resume thine office, friend Ranald, in respect I am well-breathed; or, to be more
plain, I PRAE, SEQUAR, as we used to say at Mareschal-College."

Comprehending his meaning rather from his motions than his language, the Son of the Mist again
led the way, with an unerring precision that looked like instinct, through a variety of ground
the most difficult and broken that could well be imagined. At the south-west end of the southernmost
island, where the strait is narrowest, and not more than one mile and a quarter wide, there is a
patch of rocks in the centre, which always shows: the channel on the north side of these rocks
is the best: the water is very deep, and the tide sets right through.

(* Footnote.

The latitude of the observatory was taken every day during our stay, using the sea-horizon, but
the effect of refraction was so great that the daily observations varied as much as 3 minutes 43
seconds.

The mean of 15 meridional altitudes with the sextant made the latitude 15 degrees 6 minutes 22.5
seconds, and of fourteen observations with the circle 15 degrees 6 minutes 13.8 seconds. Mean
for the latitude of the observatory 15 degrees 6 minutes 18 seconds
South.

The longitude was deduced by the mean of the observations of our two visits; namely, in October,
1820, and August, 1821: the latter were taken at Sight Point, in Prince Regent's River, the
difference of the meridians of the two places, by chronometers and
survey, being 8 minutes 52.8 seconds.

1820. September 28 and 29. By twenty sets of lunar distances with the sun, containing one hundred
sights with the sextant, the sun being to the east of the moon, the
longitude is 125 degrees 11 minutes 24.3 seconds.

1821. August 2nd and 3rd. By seventeen sets of lunar distances with the sun, containing eighty-five
sights with the sextant, the sun being to the west of the moon, the longitude of Sight Point,
in Prince Regent's River, was found to be 124 degrees 41 minutes 15.3 seconds, or of Careening
Bay 124 degrees 50 minutes 8.1 seconds.

The mean is the longitude of the observatory 125 degrees 0 minutes
46 seconds East.) The CORONATION ISLANDS separate York Sound from
Brunswick Bay, and are situated in front of Port Nelson.

The group consists of seventeen or eighteen islands, besides numerous rocky islets. On the largest
island are two remarkable peaks; the easternmost is in 14 degrees 59 minutes, and longitude
124 degrees 56 minutes 5 seconds. The island is eight miles long, and from four to two wide;
the others are from three to one mile in length; they are covered
with vegetation, and the larger islands are well clothed with trees.

The great rise of the tide would render this part of the coast of importance, was it not for
the wretched state of the country, and the unproductiveness of its
soil, which are great drawbacks upon the advantage of the tide's
unusual rise.

It is high water at full and change in Port Nelson at twelve o'clock, as it is also in Montagu
Sound. Beyond the Coronation Islands there is a string of small, rocky islands extending for sixteen
miles: the westernmost is Freycinet's Group; the principal island of which Captain De Freycinet has
described as resembling an inverted bowl; and, from this description,
we had no difficulty in finding it out; it is in latitude 15 degrees
0 minutes 30 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees 32 minutes 40 seconds.

Among the other islands we distinguished the islets Colbert, Keraudren, and Buffon. On the last
there is a small, grassy, peaked hillock, in latitude 14 degrees 55 minutes 25 seconds, and longitude
124 degrees 43 minutes 20 seconds. We passed out to sea between Freycinet's Group and Keraudren;
and within one mile and a half of the latter had eighteen fathoms: it appeared, from the colour
of the water, to have a reef projecting to the westward. BRUNSWICK
BAY is at the back of these islands, and extends from CAPE BREWSTER,
in latitude 15 degrees 6 minutes 10 seconds, and longitude 124 degrees
55 minutes 5 seconds, which terminates Port Nelson, to Point Adieu.

It is an extensive
bay or sound, and is about twenty miles in extent, with good anchorage
all over it. The coast is here very much indented by rivers and bays; among
which may be particularized Prince Regent's River, Hanover Bay, and
Port George the Fourth.

PRINCE REGENT'S
RIVER is, without exception, the most remarkable feature of the North-West
Coast. I will, however, play my part with my pistols
in the approaching melley, in respect my carabine unhappily remains at Gustavus's saddle.--My
service and thanks to you," he continued, addressing a mountaineer who offered him a bow; "Dugald
Dalgetty may say of himself, as he learned at Mareschal-College,

     "Non eget Mauri jaculis, neque arcu,
     Nec venenatis gravida sagittis,
     Fusce, pharetra;

whilk is to say--"

Ranald MacEagh a second time imposed silence on the talkative commander as before, by pulling
his sleeve, and pointing down the pass. The bay of the bloodhound was now approaching nearer
and nearer, and they could hear the voices of several persons who accompanied the animal, and
hallooed to each other as they dispersed occasionally, either in the hurry of their advance,
or in order to search more accurately the thickets as they came along. They were obviously
drawing nearer and nearer every moment. MacEagh, in the meantime, proposed to Captain Dalgetty
to disencumber himself of his armour, and gave him to understand that the women should transport
it to a place of safety.

"I crave your pardon, sir," said Dalgetty, "such is not the rule of our foreign service in
respect I remember the regiment of Finland cuirassiers reprimanded, and their kettle-drums
taken from them, by the immortal Gustavus, because they had assumed the permission to march
without their corslets, and to leave them with the baggage. Neither did they strike kettle-drums
again at the head of that famous regiment until they behaved themselves so notably at the field
of Leipsic; a lesson whilk is not to be forgotten, any more than that exclamation of the immortal
Gustavus, 'Now shall I know if my officers love me, by their putting on their armour; since,
if my officers are slain, who shall lead my soldiers into victory?' Nevertheless, friend Ranald,
this is without prejudice to my being rid of these somewhat heavy boots, providing I can obtain
any other succedaneum; for I presume not to say that my bare soles are fortified so as to endure
the flints and thorns, as seems to be the case with your followers."

To rid the Captain of his cumbrous greaves, and case his feet in a pair of brogues made out
of deerskin, which a Highlander stripped off for his accommodation, was the work of a minute,
and Dalgetty found himself much lightened by the exchange. He was in the act of recommending
to Ranald MacEagh, to send two or three of his followers a little lower to reconnoitre the
pass, and, at the same time, somewhat to extend his front, placing two detached archers at
each flank by way of posts of observation, when the near cry of the hound apprised them that
the pursuers were at the bottom of the pass. All was then dead silence; for, loquacious as
he was on other occasions, Captain Dalgetty knew well the necessity of an ambush keeping itself
under covert. 

Having passed this rock, steer for 7, and pass within one mile of it, to avoid the shoals that
extend off Cape Sidmouth. Hence the course is North-North-West towards Night Island; and, when
abreast of it, steer North 1/ 2 West until near the covered shoal v, when the course may be
directed within Sherrard's Islets and reef 10 (on which there is a sandy islet covered with some bushes)
and then steer round Cape Direction.

Hence the course North-North-West 1/ 4 West will carry you within the reefs y, z, a, b, and c, and without
the rocky islet that lies off Restoration Island: continuing this course you will, at about five
miles beyond the cape, see the long reef e; steer North-West parallel with its edge, which
extends until you are abreast of Fair Cape, where it terminates with a very narrow point. Then steer
North-West 1/ 2 North, and pass between the two easternmost Piper's Islands and the reefs h, i,
and k; then pass on either side of l and m, inshore of Haggerston's Island, and round the outermost
of Sir Everard Home's Group.

The anchorages between Cape Flinders and this are so numerous as not to require particular mention:
the north-west end of every reef will afford shelter; but the anchor should not be dropped too
near, because the tide sweeps round the edge with greater strength than it does at half a mile
off, within which distance the bottom is generally deeper. If the day is advanced and the
breeze fresh, Night Island should not be passed: because the anchorages
between it and Piper's Islands are rather exposed; and a vessel getting
underweigh from Night Island at daylight will easily reach Piper's
Islands, or Margaret Bay, before dark.

The latter bay is round Cape Grenville; it is fronted by Sunday Island, which affords good
shelter from the wind: it is a safe place to stop at.

In passing round Sir Everard Home's Islands, steer wide from them, to avoid the tide drifting you
towards the group, for it sets to the North-West across the course. The course is then about North-West
1/ 4 West to the Bird Isles, and thence, to the reef v, about North West by North; the better
and more direct plan is to pass within v and w (there is, however, a safe channel between them)
and when abreast of the west end of the latter, the course to Cairncross Island is North by
West 1/ 2 West, and the distance about eighteen miles.

There not being any very good anchorage between this and Cape York, it would be perhaps better to anchor
under it for the night, in about fourteen or fifteen fathoms, mud,
the island bearing South-East, but not nearer than half a mile, because,
within that distance, the bottom is rocky.

Leaving Cairncross Island, steer North-North-West 1/ 4 West until Escape River is abreast of you,
when look out for reef x: steer within it about North West by North, which will take you inside
the covered reef z. Your course then must be round the Albany Islands,
and hence North West by North for a, which is a rocky islet that may
be seen from abreast the Albany Isles.

The passage through the Possession
Isles and Endeavour Strait is not to be recommended for a large ship,
on account of the shoal water that extends from Wallis'Isles towards
Shoal Cape; but the route round the north end of Wednesday and Hammond's
Islands is preferable. Upon passing reef a, Wednesday Island will
be seen: in steering towards it, avoid standing too close to the rocky
islet that is abreast of the strait between it and Horned Hill, as
some sunken rocks stretch off it for about a quarter of a mile: steer
round the north point of Wednesday Island at half a mile, and then
West by South 1/ 4 South which will carry you to the northward of the
rock off Hammond's Island. Ranald instantly seized him in his arms, and bore him
back from the edge of the precipice, while he dolefully ejaculated, "I always told the immortal
Gustavus, Wallenstein, Tilly, and other men of the sword, that, in my poor mind, taslets ought
to be made musket-proof."

With two or three earnest words in Gaelic, MacEagh commended the wounded man to the charge
of the females, who were in the rear of his little party, and was then about to return to the
contest. But Dalgetty detained him, grasping a firm hold of his plaid.--"I know not how this
matter may end--but I request you will inform Montrose, that I died like a follower of the
immortal Gustavus--and I pray you, take heed how you quit your present strength, even for the
purpose of pursuing the enemy, if you gain any advantage--and--and--"

Here Dalgetty's breath and eyesight began to fail him through loss of blood, and MacEagh, availing
himself of this circumstance, extricated from his grasp the end of his own mantle, and substituted
that of a female, by which the Captain held stoutly, thereby securing, as he conceived, the
outlaw's attention to the military instructions which he continued to pour forth while he had
any breath to utter them, though they became gradually more and more incoherent--"And, comrade,
you will be sure to keep your musketeers in advance of your stand of pikes, Lochaber-axes,
and two-handed swords--Stand fast, dragoons, on the left flank!--where was I?--Ay, and, Ranald,
if ye be minded to retreat, leave some lighted matches burning on the branches of the trees--it
shows as if they were lined with shot--But I forget--ye have no match-locks nor habergeons--only
bows and arrows--bows and arrows! ha! ha! ha!"

Here the Captain sunk back in an exhausted condition, altogether unable to resist the sense
of the ludicrous which, as a modern man-at-arms, he connected with the idea of these ancient
weapons of war. It was a long time ere he recovered his senses; and, in the meantime, we leave
him in the care of the Daughters of the Mist; nurses as kind and attentive, in reality, as
they were wild and uncouth in outward appearance.

CHAPTER XV.

     But if no faithless action stain
     Thy true and constant word,
     I'll make thee famous by my pen,
     And glorious by my sword. 

     Another patch of dry rocks was seen
     by me from the summit of a
     hill at the west end of Percy Island Number
     1, whence they bore South 60 degrees West (magnetic) and were supposed
to be distant about eight or nine miles.

The variation of the compass here is between 7 and 8 degrees East.

The PERCY ISLES have also been described by Captain Flinders; the bay at the west end of Number 1
is of very steep approach and not safe to anchor in, excepting during a south-east wind: the anchorage
at Number 2, inside the Pine Islets, is bad, since the bottom is rocky; the ground is, however,
clearer more to the southward; on the whole this anchorage is not insecure, since there is
a safe passage out either on the north or south sides of the Pine Islets. Wood may be procured with
facility, and water also, unless the streams fail in the dry season. Captain Flinders was at
these islands at the latter end of September, and found it abundant. The flood-tide comes from
the north-east; at the anchorage in the channel, between the pine islets and Number 2, the flood sets
to the south, and the ebb to the north; the maximum rate was one and a quarter knot. High water
occurred at the latter place two hours and a half before the moon's passage; but on the following
day did not precede it more than one hour and a half. Captain Flinders mentions high water taking
place on shore at eight hours after the moon's passage. (Vide Flinders volume 2 page 82.) The tide
rose twelve feet when the moon was thirteen days old. The north-west end of Number 1 is in latitude
21 degrees 44 minutes 50 seconds, longitude 150 degrees 16 minutes 40 seconds; south-west end
of Number 2 is in latitude 21 degrees 40 minutes 50 seconds, longitude
150 degrees 13 minutes.

In
passing SHOAL POINT, in latitude 21 degrees 0 minutes 5 seconds, longitude 149 degrees 7 minutes
40 seconds, Captain Cook's ship got into shoal water, and at one time had as little as three
fathoms (Hawkesworth volume 3 page 131); and the merchant ship Lady
Elliot, in the year 1815, met with a sandbank extending from the island
off the point in a north-east direction for ten miles, on one part
of which she found only nine feet water.

The Mermaid passed the point at the distance of three miles, and, when the island bore South 68
degrees West, distant two miles and a half, had four and three-quarter
fathoms, which was the least water that was found, but, being then
high water, five or six feet, if not more, may be deducted, to reduce
it to the proper low water sounding.
     These rugged names to our like mouths grow sleek,
     That would have made Quintillian stare and gasp.

"We may suppose," says Bishop Newton, "that these were persons of note among the Scotch ministers,
who were for pressing and enforcing the Covenant;" whereas Milton only intends to ridicule
the barbarism of Scottish names in general, and quotes, indiscriminately, that of Gillespie,
one of the Apostles of the Covenant, and those of Colkitto and M'Donnell (both belonging to
one person), one of its bitterest enemies.]

The point upon which Montrose finally assembled his little army, was in Strathearn, on the
verge of the Highlands of Perthshire, so as to menace the principal town of that county.

