HELD FAST FOR ENGLAND:

A Tale of the Siege of Gibraltar (1779-83)

by

G. A. HENTY.

Contents

   Preface.
   Chapter 1:  "Something Like An Adventure." I'll go first ... I'm leaving.

- Jesus, Mommy!

Do not worry your mercy now thinking about it. It hurts, a lot of damage. Sosiéguese.

- Poor! But you ... breaks ... relationships ... the gentleman ... That is your ...

- "My what, Mommy?, Startled and asked Cecilia instance, as the grandmother
took in finish.

"My what, Mommy of the soul? Speak, say, for the Blessed Virgin, do not let me in this terrible
indecision. Is my enemy? Will my torment? My unfaithful lover? My what?

- Is your ... your ... your ... t. .., Josefa kept repeating signal,
each time at intervals longer and lower pitch, until the mysterious
sound of the syllable became gloomy murmur and murmur in a mere movement
of the lips, which did not last long either.

Disease had its crisis. Had expired.

Cecilia had never seen anyone die, so to be convinced by the touch of her grandmother encouraged
not just when the most vivid thought, the horror rather than grief tore a terrible cry and deprived
him of sense. Clara and Nemesia sign came, and found hugging in bed with the corpse, which had
trouble separating. Fair was his huge pain. Since that time lacked a time his protector, his wife,
his young friend his relative, his beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole Ever After
that in the confusion had forgotten to put in the hand of the dying
candle soul, prepared so early for that same case.

The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying
who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other
went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier. He ran, in effect
for that short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay Cecilia
and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to the known
beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral. Being very close the house of Avocado Street to receiving
visitors who come to offer his condolences to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral, provided
Pepper's body was moved to the living room where he and his sister lived in Pump Street, where
body was present at ten o'clock at night until three pm the following day. No catafalque was erected,
dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black belt of the Order
of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter common among
large wax candles and silver candlesticks.

The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper, watched over all night
and when the litter burial led to shoulder, taking turns in groups
of four to The cemetery, located in the small suburb of San Lazaro,
the end of this road name.

The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will refer.
The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and the shortest path not driving
through the streets of the population, but by winding paths, shaded
luxurious trees from houses and gardens, which then occupied the area
throughout the vast area today Monserrate titled.

Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession,
seeking to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long
run. After he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket cloth, with two gold
epaulets and cavalry saber.

He was young and brave gesture.

No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his weapon at the chest, cried:
- Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you.

- Tonda! Tonda! cried the of the party who knew him by sight or treatment.

Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that was the deceased had no
choice but to surrender to the mercy of the captor, who, without dismounting, he tied side
by side threw him forward, and saluting the military with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen,
I hope I waive the hard time. He had command of His Excellency the
Captain General, to catch this rogue, living or dead, and I've met.
To follow the funeral. Health, gentlemen.

The first stop for the
funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic
House of Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing
one for the soul of the deceased, by paying a gold coin, as alms. Boys were less
trusted, and more harshly treated; in consequence of which there was a kind of warfare between
the masters and the boys, in which the masters, in spite of their canes, did not always get
the best of it.

Bob Repton was nearly fifteen. He was short, rather than tall for his age, but squarely built
and strong. His hair could never be got to lie down, but bristled aggressively over his head.
His nose was inclined to turn up, his gray eyes had a merry, mischievous expression, and his
lips were generally parted in a smile. A casual observer would have said that he was a happy-go-lucky,
merry, impudent-looking lad; but he was more than this. He was shrewd, intelligent, and exceptionally
plucky; always ready to do a good turn to others, and to take more than his fair share of blame,
for every scrape he got into. He had fought many battles, and that with boys older than himself,
but he had never been beaten. The opinion, generally, among the boys was that he did not feel
pain and, being caned so frequently, such punishment as he got in a fight was a mere trifle to him.

He was a thorn in the side of Mr. Purfleet, the usher who was generally in charge of the playground;
who had learned by long experience that, whenever Bob Repton was quiet, he was certain to be
planning some special piece of mischief. The usher was sitting now on a bench, with a book
in his hand; but his attention was, at present, directed to a group of four boys who had drawn
together in a corner of the playground.

"There is Repton, again," he said to himself. "I wonder what he is plotting, now. That boy
will be the death of me. I am quite sure it was he who put that eel in my bed, last week; though
of course, I could not prove it."

Mr. Purfleet prided himself on his nerve. He had been telling the boys some stories he had
read of snakes, in India; among them, one of an officer who, when seated at table, had felt
a snake winding itself round his leg, and who sat for several minutes without moving, until
some friends brought a saucer of milk and placed it near, when the snake uncurled itself and
went to drink.

"It must have required a lot of nerve, Mr. Purfleet," Bob Repton had said, "to sit as quiet
as that."

"Not at all, not at all," the usher replied, confidently. "It was the natural thing to do.
A man should always be calm, in case of sudden danger, Bob. The first thought in his mind should
be, 'What is this?' the second, 'What had best be done, under the circumstances?' and, these
two things being decided, a man of courage will deal coolly with the danger. I should despise
myself, if I were to act otherwise."

It was two nights later that the usher, having walked down between the two rows of beds in
the dormitory, and seeing that all the boys were quiet, and apparently asleep, proceeded to
his own bed, which was at the end of the room, and partly screened off from the rest by a curtain.
No sooner did he disappear behind this than half a dozen heads were raised. An oil lamp burned
at the end of the room, affording light for the usher to undress; and enabling him, as he lay
in bed, to command a general, if somewhat faint view of the dormitory. Five minutes after Mr.
Purfleet had disappeared behind the curtain, the watching eyes saw the clothes at the end of
the bed pulled down, and caught a partial view of Mr. Purfleet as he climbed in. A second later
there was a yell of terror, and the usher leapt from the bed. Instantly, the dormitory was
in an uproar.

"What is it, Mr. Purfleet--what is the matter, sir?" and several of the boys sprang from their
beds, and ran towards him; the only exceptions to the general excitement being the four or
five who were in the secret. These lay shaking with suppressed laughter, with the bedclothes
or the corner of a pillow thrust into their mouths, to prevent them from breaking out into
screams of delight.

"What is it, sir?"

It was some time before the usher could recover himself sufficiently to explain.

"There is a snake in my bed," he said.

"A snake!" the boys repeated, in astonishment, several of the more timid at once making off
to their beds.

"Certainly, a snake," Mr. Purfleet panted. "I put my legs down, and they came against something
cold, and it began to twist about. In a moment, if I had not leapt out, I should no doubt have
received a fatal wound."

"Where did it come from?"

"What is to be done?"

And a variety of other questions burst from the boys. The country lacks
military spirit. We are a warrior people, and it will be easy to beat the English, weakened by a false
conception of life.

The doctor paused and added:

- We also have the internal corruption of our enemies, their lack of unity. God help us to sow confusion
in these hateful people. There will be many days without you see his hand. The revolution is
about to explode in France while the war.

The people Paris barricades in the streets, will play the anarchy
of the Commune.

Tunisia Algiers and other possessions are to revolt against France.

Argensola believed the case aggressively smiling with incredulity.

- I repeat - Hartrott insisted - that this country is going to know rpm and insurrection here in
their colonies. I know what I mean ... Russia will also be your inner revolution, revolution red
flag, forcing the tsar to ask grace to his knees.

You only have to read Recent newspaper strikes in St. Petersburg, demonstrations by strikers under
the pretext of the visit of President Poincare ... England will be rejected by the colonies requests
for support. India is to rise up against it and believes Egypt is time of empowerment.

July seemed impressed by these statements, made with a doctoral security.

Almost was angry with the unbeliever Argensola, still staring insolently and repeated Professor
eyes: "Are you crazy: crazy with pride."

The man must have serious reasons to make such prophecies of misfortune. His presence in Paris, so it
was inexplicable Desnoyers, gave his words a mysterious authority.

- But the nations will defend - he argued his cousin -. Do not be so easy victory as you think.

-
Yes, you will make. The fight is going to be tough.

It seems that in recent years France has been concerned of his army. Find some resistance,
the more difficult victory, but defeat ... You do not know how far
the offensive power of Germany.

Nobody knows for sure beyond its borders. If our enemies known in all its intensity, fall knees,
regardless of useless sacrifice.

There was a long silence. Julius von Hartrott seemed oblivious. The memory elements accumulated force
by race plunged him into a kind of mystical worship.

- The preliminary victory - he said suddenly - for some time that we have obtained. Our enemies
hate us, and yet we imitate. Everything bears the mark of Germany is sought in the world.
The same countries that try to resist our weapons to copy our methods in their universities
and admire our theories, even those who did not achieve success in Germany. Many times we laughed
with us, as the Roman augurs, in assessing the servility with we are ... And certainly do not
want to recognize our superiority!

Argensola first approved eye and gesture Hartrott words. Exactly what saying the world was a victim
of the "German superstition." Intellectual cowardice, the Fear the fort, was admiring all of Germanic
origin, without any discrimination, collectively, by the brightness, the gold mixed with the powder.
The so-called Latinos to give this admiration, they doubted their own strengths to irrational
pessimism. They were the first to order his death. And the proud Germans had no more than repeat
the words of these pessimistic to assert itself in the belief of their superiority.

With the passion southern jumping without gradation from one extreme to another, many Latinos
had proclaimed that in the future world there was no room for Latin
American societies, in full agony, adding that Germany remains latent
only the civilizing forces.

The French, they yell at each other, incurring the greatest exaggerations,
not realizing that there who listened to the other side of the doors
had been repeated for many years that France was in decay and marched
to death.

Why then are outraged at the contempt of enemies ... How they were not to participate in their
beliefs! ...

The teacher, misinterpreting the silent approval of the young man
who until then He had listened with hostile smile, added:

- The time
has come to trial in France on German culture, implanting it as victors.

Here

Argensola interrupted: "What if the German culture did not exist,
as stated by a German celebrity?

"I needed to contradict this pedantic that overwhelmed with pride. Hartrott almost jumped from
his seat to hear such a question.

- German What is this?

- Nietzsche!

The professor looked at him with pity. Nietzsche had said to the men: "Be tough," affirming that
"a good war hallows every cause."

Bismarck had praised them, had, taken part in the war of 70, had glorified the German when he
spoke of "laughing lion" and "Blond beast." But Argensola listened to the quiet of a safe ground
to tread. Oh peaceful afternoons reading by the fireplace in the study, listening to the rain
hitting the Glazed glasses! ...

- The philosopher said that - said - and says different things, like everyone think a lot. His doctrine
is pride, but of individual pride, not pride of nation or race. He spoke always against "the deceitful
trickery of the races."

Argensola remembered word for word to his philosopher.

A culture, as it was' unity style in every aspect of life. " Science is not culture. A great
learning can be accompanied by a great barbarity, the lack of style or chaotic confusion of
all styles.

Germany, according to Nietzsche, it had its own culture gap style. "The French - he said - are
at the head of an authentic culture and fruitful whatever its value, and to date all have taken
it. "His hatred was focused about their own country. "I can not bear to live in Germany. The spirit
of servility and mezquinería penetrates everywhere ... I do not think more than in French culture,
and everything else called educated Europe seems like a mistake.

The rare cases of high culture that I found in Germany were of French origin. "

- You know - continued Argensola - which, to quarrel with Wagner by excess Germanism in his art,
he proclaimed the need mediterranizar music. His ideal was a culture throughout Europe, but
Latin based.

Julius von Hartrott replied disdainfully, saying the same words in Spanish. The men who think
much say many things. Moreover, Nietzsche was a poet who had died in full dementia, and not among
the scholars of the university.

His fame had wrought abroad ... And not reoccupied most of the young,
as if he had evaporated After his daring objections.

All her attention now focused on Desnoyers.

- This country - continued - carries death in his gut.

How do I doubt that will arise in him revolution just war breaks out?

... You have not witnessed the upheavals of the boulevard Cailloux plea process. Reactionaries and revolutionaries
have been insulted for three days. I have seen how challenged with shouts and songs, how they
beat in the middle of street. And this division of opinion will be accentuated even more when
our troops crossing borders. It will be civil war.

Antimilitarists claim, believing that it is in the hands of his government to avoid the crash ...
Country degenerated democracy and inferiority its celtic triumphant, anxious of all freedoms!
... We are the only people free land, because we obey.

The paradox was smiling to July. Germany only free people! ...

- That's right - he said vigorously von Hartrott -. We have the freedom that befits a great nation: economic
and intellectual freedom.

- What political freedom? ...

The teacher greeted this question with a gesture of contempt.

- Political freedom!

... Only decadent peoples and unruly, the inferior races eager to equality and democratic confusion,
talk about political freedom. The Germans did not the need. We are a nation of masters, which recognizes
the hierarchy and want to be commanded by those born superior. We have the organizational genius.

This
was, according to the doctor, the great secret German and the Germanic race, to take over the
world, would involve all of its discovery. The villages would be organized so that give the individual
the maximum of performance for the company. Men regimented for all kinds of productions, obedient
as machines to a senior management and giving the maximum amount of work: this is the perfect
state. Freedom was an idea purely negative if it was accompanied by a positive concept were
that he should help.

The two friends listened with astonishment the description of the future that gave the world the
superiority Germanic. Each individual subject to intensive production, as well as a piece of garden
that you want to get the owner the highest number of vegetables ... The man turned into a mechanism
... no unnecessary operations that do not provide immediate results
... And the people that proclaimed this ideal was the same grim philosophers
and dreamers, who had given to contemplation and reflection first
in your life!

...

Hartrott returned to insist on the inferiority of the enemies of their race. To fight was necessary
faith, an unshakable confidence in the superiority of their own forces.

-
At this time, in Berlin all accept the war, all believe certain victory,
while here!

... I'm not saying that the French feel fear. Have a history of bravery that galvanizes at
certain times. But they are sad, they guess that would make any sacrifice to avoid what they
are coming. The people shall shout with excitement at the first moment her screaming whenever
they have to their doom.

The upper classes do not have confidence in the future; silent or lie, but they all guess the premonition
of disaster. Yesterday I spoke with your father. Is French and is rich. It shows his fury upon
the governments of his country because he engage in conflicts in Europe to defend remote villages
and uninteresting. He complains exalted patriots, who have kept open
the gap between Germany and France, preventing reconciliation.

Alsace and Lorraine says are not worth the cost in men war and money
... Acknowledges our greatness: it ensures that we have progressed
so fast, they can never reach other peoples ... And as your father
think many others: all those who are satisfied with their welfare
and are afraid to lose.

Believe me, a country that doubts and fears war is due before the first battle.

July showed some concern, as if to cut the conversation.

- Leave my father. Today he says that because the war is not yet a fact, and he needs to contradict
indignant with all that is within his reach. Tomorrow might tell you otherwise ... My father is
a Latino.

The professor looked at his watch. Should go: he still had many things to do before go to the
station.

The Germans established in Paris had fled in large flocks, circulate among them as a secret.
That evening were the last ones to depart still remained in the capital significantly.

- I came to see family affection, because it was my duty to give a
warning.

You are a foreigner and nothing holds you back here. If you want to witness a great historical
event, stay. But You'd better leave. The war is going to be hard, very hard, and if Paris tries
to resist as before, will witness terrible things. The offensive capabilities have changed dramatically.

Desnoyers
made a gesture of indifference.

- The same as your father - continued the professor -. Last night, he and I had answered your
family Similarly. Even my mother prefers to stay beside her sister, saying that the Germans are
very good, very civilized and nothing to be feared of them when they succeed.

The doctor seemed to resent this good opinion.

- They do not realize
what is modern war, know that our generals have studied the art of
reducing the enemy quickly and used it with a relentless approach.

Terror is the only means, disturbs the intelligence of the opponent,
paralyzing its action, powder resistance.

The more fierce as the war will be shorter, is heavily penalize proceed humanely. And Germany
is going to be cruel with a cruelty never seen, not to more protracted struggle.

He had left his seat, requiring a cane and straw hat.

I looked Argensola with hostility. The teacher, passing by him, only made a dismissive motion rigid
head.

Then he went to the door, accompanied by his cousin. The farewell was brief.

- I repeat my advice. If you do not love the danger, leave. I may be wrong, and this people,
convinced that his defense is useless, it delivers good ... Anyway,
soon we'll see.

I will be happy to return to Paris when the flag float over the Empire Eiffel Tower. Case of
three or four weeks. In early September, for sure.

France was about to disappear, for the doctor, was certain death.

- Left Paris - added - will the French, because a people is not easily
removed; but they take their rightful place.

We will rule the world: they will take care inventing fashion, make life pleasant abroad to
visit them, and in the intellectual field will encourage them to educate beautiful actresses,
produce entertaining novels and run funny comedy ... Nothing more.

Desnoyers laughed as he shook hands with his cousin, pretending to take his words as paradoxes.

-
I'm serious - continued Hartrott -. The last time the French Republic as a nation important
has sounded. I've seen up close, and does not deserve another chance. Disorder and lack of
confidence above; enthusiasm sterile below.

Turning his head he saw the smile again Argensola.

- And we understand a little of this - he said aggressively -. We are used to examine people
who were, to study fiber by fiber, and we can know at a glance the psychology of those still
living.

The Bohemian thought he saw a surgeon talking to sufficiency of the
mysteries of the will to a body.

What I knew of life this pedantic documents interpreter dead! ...

When the door was closed to meet his friend, who became discouraged. Argensola and was not
crazy to Dr. Julius von Hartrott.

- What a brute! - Said lifting the arms -. And to think that these producers live loose of dark
error ... Who would you say are of the same land that produced Kant, the pacifist, the serene Goethe,
Beethoven ... Many years have believed that they formed a nation
of dreamers and philosophers busy working unselfishly for all men
...

The farce of a German geographer revived in her memory as an
explanation: "The Germany is a two heads.

With a head dreams and poet, while the other thinks and running. "

Desnoyers showed desperate certainty of war. This teacher seemed more frightening than the counselor
and the other German bourgeoisie had met on the ship. His sadness was not only selfish thought that the
disaster was about to interfere carrying out their wishes and those of Margarita. Suddenly
discovered, at this time of uncertainty, I loved to France. She saw her father's homeland
and the country of the Great Revolution ... He, although there had never mixed in the struggles
of politics, a Republican and had some laughed many times to friends who adored kings and emperors,
considering this as a sign of distinction.

Argensola tried revive him.

- Who knows? This is a country of surprises. The Frenchman has to be seen at the time it seeks
remedy their lack of foresight. Whatever you say your cousin the Barbarian, no enthusiasm,
no order ... Worse than we had seen the living days ahead of Valmy. All Disorganized as the only
defense battalions of workers and peasants who first took a rifle.

And yet, the old monarchies of Europe did not know how to get out for twenty years of these warriors
improvised.

V

Which shows the four horsemen

The two friends lived in the days following a hectic life, considerably enlarged by the speed with
which events were happening. Every hour spawned a novelty - the More often false - that stirred
the harsh opinion sway. As soon as the danger of appeared averted war, and circulated the
word that the mobilization was ordered to within a few minutes.
Twenty-four hours represented the concerns, anxiety, nervous exhaustion
one year normal. And what the situation was worsened by the uncertainty,
the expected event feared and yet invisible, anxiety about the danger
never stops coming.

History overwhelmed stretched out their banks,
succeeding the facts as waves a flood. Austria declared war against
Serbia, while the diplomats of the great powers were still working
to avoid conflict. The stretched grid around the planet vibrating
incessantly in the deep ocean and on the relief of the continents,
providing hope or pessimism. Russia mobilized a portion of his army.
Germany he had his troops ready pretext of maneuvers, declared a state
of 'threat war. " The Austrians, without waiting for the efforts of
diplomacy, began the bombardment Belgrade. William II, fearing that
the intervention of the powers to resolve the conflict between the
Tsar and the Emperor of Austria, forcing the course of events by stating
war against Russia. Then, Germany was isolated by cutting the railroads
and telegraph lines dough in the mystery its invasion forces.

France
witnessed the avalanche of events, words and expressions sober enthusiasm.
A severe cold resolution encouraged all inside. Two generations had
come into the world getting to open the eyes of the reason the image
of a war inevitably would come. Nobody wanted: the imposing adversaries
... But all accepted it, with the firm intention of fulfilling their
duty.

Paris streets during the day sulking with their concerns. Only
a few groups exalted patriots, following the three colors of the flag,
passed by the square Concordia cheering before the statue of Strasbourg.
The people were addressed in the streets amicably. They all knew without
having ever seen. The eyes attracted the eyes, the smiles seemed to
catch each other on the sympathy of a common idea. Women were sad,
but spoke loud to hide his emotions. In the long twilight of summer
boulevards were filled with crowds. Converged to the outlying neighborhoods
of the city center, As the days and revolutions remote. Groups came
together to form an agglomeration without end, from which emerged
shouting and singing. The demonstrations went through the center under
the electric lights had just ignited. The parade runs through mid
night, and the national flag appeared on andante crowd escorted by
the flags of other peoples. A gag
had been thrust into his mouth; and he was tightly bound, by a cord round his waist, to one
of the bedposts.

Bob sprang forward, whirling his hockey stick round his head, and giving a loud shout of "Down
with the villains!" the others joining, at the top of their voices.

Before the man had time to turn round, Bob's stick fell, with all the boy's strength, upon
his ankle; and he went down as if he had been shot, his pistol exploding as he fell. Bob raised
his stick again and brought it down, with a swinging blow, on the robber's head.

The others had made a rush, together, towards the man standing by the lady. Taken utterly by
surprise, he discharged his pistol at random, and then sprang towards the door. Two blows fell
on him, and Sankey and Fullarton tried to grapple with him; but he burst through them, and
rushed out.

Bob and Wharton sprang on the kneeling man, before he could gain his feet; and rolled him over,
throwing themselves upon him. He was struggling furiously, and would soon have shaken them
off, when the other boys sprang to their assistance.

"You help them, Jim. I will get this cord off!" Fullarton said and, running to the bed, began
to unknot the cord that bound the admiral.

The ruffian on the ground was a very powerful man, and the three boys had the greatest difficulty
in holding him down; till Fullarton slipped a noose round one of his ankles and then, jumping
on the bed, hauled upon it with all his strength--the admiral giving his assistance.

"Get off him, he is safe!" he shouted; but the others had the greatest difficulty in shaking
themselves free from the man--who had, fortunately, laid his pistol on the bed, before he crawled
under it to get at the box.

Jim Sankey was the first to shake himself free from him and, seeing what Fullarton was doing,
he jumped on to the bed and gave him his assistance and, in half a minute, the ruffian's leg
was lashed to the bedpost, at a height of five feet from the ground.

Just as this was done there was a rush of feet outside; and three men, one holding a cutlass
and the other two armed with pokers, ran into the room. It was fortunate they did so, for the
man whom Bob had first felled was just rising to his feet; but he was at once struck down again,
by a heavy blow over the head with the cutlass. By this time the admiral had torn off the bandage
across his mouth.

"Another of them ran downstairs, Jackson. Give chase. We can deal with these fellows."

The three men rushed off.

"Well, I don't know who you are," the admiral went on, turning to the boys, "but you turned
up at the nick of time; and I am deeply indebted to you, not only for saving my money--although
I should not have liked to lose that--but for having captured these pirates.

"That villain has not hurt you much, I hope?" for both Bob and Jim Sankey were bleeding freely,
from the face, from the heavy blows the robber had dealt them.

"No, sir, we are not hurt to speak of," Bob said. "We belong to Tulloch's school."

"To the school!" the admiral exclaimed. "What on earth are you doing here, at four o'clock
in the morning?

"But never mind that now. What is it, Jackson, has he got away?"

"No, sir; he was lying in a heap, at the bottom of the stairs. There was a lanyard fastened
across."

"We tied a string across, sir, as we came up," Bob explained.

"Well done, lads!

"Are there any more of them, Jackson?"

"Don't see any signs of any more, admiral. There are the two plate chests in the passage, as
if they had been brought out from the butler's strong room, in readiness to take away."

"Where is the butler? He must have heard the pistol shots!" the admiral exclaimed angrily.

"He is not in his room, admiral. We looked in to bring him with us. The door was open, but
he isn't there."

"There is another man in the drawing room, tied." Bob said. "He was putting a lot of things
into a sack."

"The scoundrel! Perhaps that is the butler," the admiral said.

"Well, Emma, you had better go back to bed again.

"Jackson, you stand guard over these two villains here, and split their heads open, if they
venture to move.

"Now, let us go and see to this other fellow."

The admiral proceeded downstairs, followed by the boys. The other two servants were standing
beside the third robber, who was still insensible.

"You keep watch over him, John," the admiral said.

"William, you come with us. There is another man in the drawing room, but he is tied."

"There is the key, sir," Bob said, producing it. "We thought it safest to lock him up."

"Upon my word, young gentlemen, you seem to have thought of everything. If I were in command
of a ship, I should like to have you all as midshipmen."

The door was opened. The man was still lying on the ground, but had rolled some distance from
where they had left him. He had succeeded in getting his feet loosened from the handkerchief,
but the whipcord round his wrists had resisted all his efforts to break or slacken it. He was
panting heavily from the exertions he had made.

"It is Harper," the admiral said, in a tone of indignation and disgust.

"So, you treacherous scoundrel, it was you who let these men in, was it? Well, it is a hanging
matter, my lad; and if any fellow deserves the rope, you do.

"You had better go and get some more cord, Williams, and tie all these four fellows up, securely.
Let Jackson see to the knots.

"Where did the scoundrels get in?" he asked, turning to the boys.

"At the door at the end of the passage, sir, where the plate chests are standing. We found
it open--here is the key of it. We locked it, after we came in, so as to prevent anyone from
getting away.

"There is another man, with a cart, in the road."

"We will see to him, directly we have got the others all tied up safely," the admiral said.
"That is the first thing to see to."

In five minutes, the four men were laid side by side in the hall, securely bound hand and foot.

"Now, Williams, you keep guard over them.

"Jackson, do you and John sally out. There is a cart standing outside the gate, and a fellow
in it. Bring him in, and lay him alongside the others."

The boys followed the two men, to see the capture. The light had broadened out over the sky,
and it was almost sunrise as they sallied out. They went quietly along, until they reached
the gate--which stood ajar--then they flung it open and rushed out. To their disappointment,
the cart was standing about fifty yards lower down the hill. The man was in it, with his whip
in one hand and the reins in another, and was looking back; and the moment he saw them, he
struck the horse and drove off at the top of his speed. The pace was such that it was hopeless
for them to think of following him.

"I expect he heard the pistol shots," Jackson said, "and sheered off a bit, so as to be able
to cut and run if he found his consorts were in trouble. Well, we cannot help it; we have taken
four prizes out of the five, and I call that pretty fair."

"I think we had better go, now," Bob said. "We have got a friend waiting for us."

"Then he must wait a bit longer," Jackson said. "The admiral will want to ask you some more
questions. But if your friend is anywhere near, one of you might run and tell him to back and
fill a bit, till you come to him."

"Tell him to do what?" Jim Sankey asked.

"Tell him to wait a bit, lad."

"I will run up," Wharton said.

"Shall I tell him we shan't want him at all, today, Bob?"

"I think so, Wharton. You see it is four o'clock, now; and we mayn't be able to get away for
half an hour, and it will be too late, then. Besides, Jim and I have been knocked about too
much to care for rabbit hunting, now. You tell him we will go some other day."

"You needn't tell him that, Wharton," Fullarton put in. "It will be some time before we get
a chance, you may be sure."

"All right! Tell him to go home then, Wharton. Tell him I will make it all right with him,
for losing his morning's work. Of course, you will come in here, when you come down the hill
again."

Wharton nodded, and started at a run up the hill; while his companions accompanied the two
men into the house. The admiral was down in the hall again. He had now had time to add to his
former, scanty costume.

"Get the shutters of the drawing room open, Jackson," he said, after hearing the report of
the man's escape, "and tell the maids--I suppose they are all up--to light a fire and get some
coffee ready, at once, and something to eat.

"Now, young gentlemen, sit down and tell me all about this business. Now, which of you will
be spokesman?"

Jim nodded to Bob.

"It's his doing, sir. I mean about our coming in here. We should never have thought anything
about the cart, if it hadn't been for Bob; and we didn't much like coming, only he pretty well
made us, and he arranged it all."

"That's all rot," Bob said. "We were just all in it together, sir, and this is how it was."

And he told the whole story of what had taken place.

"Well, you couldn't have done better, if you had been officers in His Majesty's service," the
admiral said. "You have saved me the loss of my two plate chests, of all the plate in this
room--and that couldn't be counted in money, for they were most of the things given me, at
different times, on service--and of 500 pounds I had in that box upstairs--altogether, at least
2000 pounds in money value. More than that, you prevented my being captured; and it would have
been a sorer blow, to me, than the loss of the money, if those scoundrels had had their way,
and had got off scot free.

"But you haven't told me, yet, how you happened to be going up the hill, at half past three
o'clock in the morning. What on earth were you doing there? Surely your master does not allow
you to ramble about, in the middle of the night." I too, when I
married, my china was crazy. Is it true that you want? ... Well, take down, Frenchy the devil,
someone has to carry, and you do not loose out as a cow mother ... Let's see if I stay full of
grandchildren.

Reappeared the major producer of men and beasts to make this wish.

And if it considers necessary to explain his attitude, he added:

- I do all this because I love you, and I love you because you are serious.

Again the Frenchman was absorbed, not knowing what it was so appreciated the seriousness.

Desnoyers, to marry, he thought of his mother. If poor old could see this extraordinary leap
of his fortune!

But Mom had died a year before, believing his son enormously rich because every month he sent
one hundred fifty pesos, slightly more than three hundred francs, drawn the salary he had in the room.

Joining
the Madariaga family served for less interest is attending to his business.

He pulled the city, with the attraction of the charms are not known.

He spoke with contempt of rural women, poorly washed Chinese, now inspired him disgust. Had left
their country rider clothing and exhibited with childish satisfaction
that suits you dressed a tailor in the capital.

When Elena wanted to accompany him to Buenos Aires, defended claiming troublesome business.
"No, go with your mother."

The fate of fields and cattle not inspired concerns. His fortune, managed by Desnoyers, was
in good hands.

- This is very serious - say in the dining room before the family together -. As serious as
I ... Of does not anyone laugh.

And so the French could guess that his father, speaking of serious, alluded to the integrity character.
According to Madariaga spontaneous statement, since the early days he tried to Desnoyers could guess
a genius like his own, perhaps more hard and firm but not yelling and eccentricities. For this
he had been treated with extraordinary kindness, feeling a clash between the two would not fix.
Their only disagreements were due to costs set by Madariaga in earlier times. Since the son directed
the stays, the work cost less and people showed greater activity. And this without shouting, no harsh words,
with just his presence and short orders.

The old man was the only thing he faced to keep the capricious system
followed suit of the gift.

Indignant thorough and mechanical order, always the same, without some arbitrary quirky, good-natured
tyranny. It is often presented to some of the Desnoyers Mestizo peons
to the public posed by the malice in intimate relationship with the
landowner.

"Patroncito, says the old pattern to give me five dollars." The little chief responded negatively,
and soon after had Madariaga, angry gesture, but measuring his words, considering to which his
son was as serious as him.

- Much love you, son, but here no one commands but me ... Ah, Frenchy! Are equal to all those
of your land pilláis penny goes to the media, and sees more sunshine though you crucified ... Did
I say five dollars? I'll ten. I sent him, and that's it.

The French paid a shrug, while his father, satisfied with the victory, fled to Buenos Aires. It was
good to note that the room still belonged to Madariaga Galician.

In one of his trips back with a companion, a young German, who, according to him, knew everything
and served to all. His son worked too. Karl Hartrott would help in
accounting.

And Desnoyers agreed, feeling a few days a nascent estimate the new employee.

Belonging to two enemy nations meant nothing. Everywhere there are good people and this Karl
was a subject worthy of appreciation. Was kept at a distance from their peers and was inflexible
and hard to lower. All his faculties seemed to focus on service and
admiration of those who were above him.

Just unfold the lips Madariaga German shook his head in advance to support their words. If
I said something funny, your Laughter was a shocking sound. With Desnoyers showed taciturn
and applied work regardless of hours.

Just saw him enter the Administration, jumped from his chair straightening with military rigidity.
Everything was ready to do so. On their own, spying on staff, betraying their oversights and shortcomings.
This service not enthusiastic about his immediate boss, but thanked him as an expression of
interest by the establishment.

The old rancher praised the acquisition as a success, claiming that his son's held alike.

- A very helpful waiter, is not it? ... These gringos of the German work well, they know many
things and cost little. Then, so disciplined! So humilditos! ... I'm telling you, because you
Frenchy, but you have cast evil enemies. Are people hard to peel.

Desnoyers replied with a shrug. His homeland was far away and also the German. Wonder if it
again! ... There were Argentine, and should think about things immediately, without worrying about
the past.

- Also, have so little pride! - Continued Madariaga ironic tone -. Any gringo of these, when it is dependent
on the capital, sweeping the shop, make dinner, take the accounting sold to the customers,
typing, results from four to five languages, and accompanied if necessary, to the friend of love
like a great lady ... all for twenty-five dollars month. Who can fight with people like that!
You, Frenchy, you're like me ... very seriously, and you would starve before going through certain
things. So I tell you that are fearful.

The farmer, after a short reflection, he added:

- Maybe not as good
as they seem.

You have to see how they treat those who are below them. They might think the simple but was
not, and when they smile when receiving a kick, say to himself: "Wait it reaches the mine, and
I will refund three."

Then he seemed to regret his words.

- Anyway, this Karl is a poor boy, an unhappy, just tell me something,
open the mouth as if to swallow flies.

He asserts that it is very family, but who knows of these gringos! ... All starving, coming to
America, the cast of children princes.

"So he had familiarly Madariaga from the first moment, no gratitude, as to Desnoyers, but to
make him feel his inferiority.

He had also introduced in their house, but only to give piano lessons
to the youngest daughter.

"The Romantic" and not placed at dusk at the door watching the setting sun. Karl, once work in
the administration, came to the house of the farmer, sitting next to Ellen, who typed with a
persistence worthy of a better fate. At the last minute, German, accompanied on the piano,
sang fragments of Wagner, which made Madariaga to doze in an armchair with a strong cigar Paraguay
acceded to his lips.

Elena watched with growing interest while the gringo singer. It was the gentleman awaited dream
of the white queen. It was almost a servant, a blond pulling immigrant to red, fleshy, somewhat
heavy and with bovine eyes that reflected an eternal fear of displeasing to their bosses. But
day by day, was found in him something which changed his first impressions: Karl women's whiteness
beyond the face and hands tanned by the sun rising martial of his whiskers, and the ease with
which he was riding his horse, his air troubadour to sing with a
rather deaf tenor voluptuous romances with words she could not understand.

One night at the dinner, could not restrain himself, and talked with
feverish eagerness which has made a great discovery:

- Father: Karl
is noble.

Belongs to a family.

The rancher made a gesture of indifference. Also in those days was concerned. But during the evening
felt the need to unload on someone's inner rage that came gnawing
since his last trip to Buenos Aires, and interrupted the singer.

-
Hey, gringo, what's that in your nobility and other clubs who have
told the little girl?

Karl left the piano to stand up and respond.

Under the influence of recent songs, there in his attitude something to remember when Lohengrin
to reveal the secret of his life.

His father was a general von Hartrott, one side of the war leaders of 70. The Emperor had
rewarded ennobled. One of his uncles was an intimate adviser King of Prussia. His older brothers
were on the officers of the regiments privileged. He had drawn sword as a lieutenant.

Madariaga interrupted him, tired of so much greatness. "Lies ... clubs ... air. "Talk nobility
to him gringo! ... Went very young of Europe plunged into the riots American democracies,
and although it seemed somewhat anachronistic nobility and incomprehensible, is imagined that
the only genuine and respectable was that of his country. For the gringos were granted first
place for the invention of machinery for ships, for animal breeding
price, but all the Counts and Marquises of gringuería seemed fake.

-
All farces - he repeated -.

Not in your country is noble, and you have all together five pesos. Tuvierais If not you would
come here to eat or you send enviaríais women who are ... you know what they are as good as
me.

To the astonishment of Desnoyers, the German dash humbly accepted
this, nodding movements Head to the last words of the pattern.

-
If they were true - Madariaga continued relentlessly - all these titles
batons, swords and uniforms, why did you come here?

What the hell have you done in your country to have to go?

Now Karl hung his brow, confused and babbling. "Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Helen. Poor thing! How to
humiliate him because he was poor! ... And he felt a deep gratitude to his brother to see that
he broke his silence to defend the German.

- But I appreciate to
this young man! - Madariaga said apologetically -.

Are those of the earth give me rage.

When, after some days, Desnoyers made a trip to Buenos Aires, explained the anger the old.
For several months he had been the protector of a forgotten German-born soprano in America
by an Italian operetta company.

She recommended to Karl, a fellow bastard that, after rolling through several countries of America
and perform different jobs, lived next door Knight him in class singer. Madariaga had joyously expended
many thousands of dollars. A youthful enthusiasm accompanied him in this new existence of
urban pleasures, until to find a second life that Germany had in his absence and how they
laughed at him parasites in his entourage, flew into a rage, saying
goodbye for ever, with accompaniment bumps and broken furniture.

The latest adventure of your story! ... Desnoyers guessed this willingness to give hear for the
first time admitted his years. I did not think back to the capital. All lies! The existence in
the countryside, surrounded by family and doing much good to the poor, was the only truth.
And the terrible centaur idyllic expressed with tenderness, with
a firm under sixty-five, and insensitive to the temptation.

After his scene with Karl, and increased the salary of it, appealing
as always to the generosity to repair their violence.

What I could not forget was about his nobility, gave grounds for
new jokes.

That story had brought glory to his memory trees Pedigree players
stay.

The German was a pedigree, and this nickname appointed him up.

Sitting, on summer nights under a roof of the house, was delighted patriarchal watching his family
around him. The night was quiet hum was populated by cloqueos insects
and frogs.

In the distant ranches came the songs of the peons preparing their
dinner.

It was the time of harvest, and great bands of immigrants were housed in stay for the extra
work.

Madariaga had known dark days of war and violence. He remembered the last years the tyranny of Rosas,
he witnessed the arrival. It listed the various revolutions national and provincial in which
he had taken part, not to be outdone by its neighbors, and to those designated under the title
"people." But all this had disappeared and no repeated. Were times of peace, work and wealth.

-
Look, Frenchy - she said, shooing the jets of smoke from his cigar to mosquitoes that tossing
around him -.

I'm Spanish, you French, Karl German, my girls Argentine Russian Cook, his assistant Greek block
the pawn of English, Chinese cuisine, a are in the country, others Italian or Galician, and among
the laborers come in all breeds and laws ... And we all live in peace! In Europe probably would
have beaten us at this hour, but here all friends.

And he delighted listening to the music of the workers: Italian songs laments to the accompaniment
of accordion, guitar playing support to Spanish and Creole voices s wild who sang love and
death.

- This is the ark of Noah - the rancher said.
He meant the tower of Babel, Desnoyers thought, but the old man was
the same.

- I believe - he continued - because we live in this part
of the world there are no kings and armies are few, and men only think
have the best possible thanks to his work. But I also believe that
we live in peace because there are plenty and everyone comes to your
part ... The one rations are closet if they were less than people!

He
returned to be in reflective silence, to add a little later:

- Whatever
it is, we must recognize that we live more relaxed here than in the
other world. Men are appreciated for their worth and get together
without thinking if they come from a land or another. The waiters
are not going to flock to kill other young men who do not know and
whose crime is being born in the village across ... The man is a bad
beast everywhere, I admit; but here come, have land to spare to lie,
and is good with the goodness of a dog sick. There are too many live
in plenty, getting in each other, there is little pittance and become
easily enraged. Long live peace, Frenchy, and the quiet life! Where
one feels well and is not at risk of being killed by things that do
not understand, there is the true ground.

And like an echo of the
thoughts of rustic character, Karl, sitting in the lounge at the piano,
softly sang a hymn to Beethoven. "Sing the joy of life, sing freedom.
Never lie and betray your neighbor, so even if you offer the highest
throne of earth. "

Peace! ... A few days later agreed Desnoyers bitterness
of these illusions of the old. It was war, a domestic war, which erupted
in the idyllic setting of the room. "Patroncito, run, that the old
pattern has peeled knife and wants to kill the German." And Desnoyers
had run away from your desk, when informed by the voices of a pawn.
Madariaga pursued Karl knife in his hand to strike at all who tried
to block his path. Only he could stop him, snatching the weapon.

-
That pedigree scoundrel! - Shouted the old man with a pale face, shaking
between arms of his son -. Wharton
was to be a lawyer, and was to begin in his father's office, in a year or two. Admiral Langton
took notes of the addresses of the boys' relatives.

When he had done that, he said to them:

"Now, lads, I know you would rather be off. I remember, when I was a midshipman, I was always
glad enough to escape, when I had to dine with the captain."

A week later, a young man came down from a city watchmaker's, with four handsome gold watches
and chains for the boys; with an inscription stating that they had been presented to them by
Admiral Langton, in remembrance of their gallant conduct on the night of August 6th, 1778.
They were immensely delighted with the gift; for watches were, in those days, far more expensive
luxuries than at present, and their use was comparatively rare. With the watches were four
short notes from the admiral, inviting them to come up on the following Saturday afternoon.

They had, by this time, received letters from their families, who had each received a communication
from the admiral, expressing his warm commendation of their conduct, and his thanks for the
services that the boys had rendered.

Jim Sankey's father wrote saying that the admiral had offered to procure him a berth as a midshipman,
at once; and that he had written, thankfully accepting the offer, as he knew that it was what
Jim had been most earnestly wishing--though, as he had no interest, whatever, among naval men,
he had hitherto seen no chance of his being able to obtain such an appointment. This communication
put Jim into a state of the wildest delight, and rendered him an object of envy to his schoolfellows.

Fullarton's father wrote his son a hearty letter, congratulating him on what he had done, and
saying that he felt proud of the letter he had received from the admiral.

Wharton's father wrote to him sharply, saying that thief-taking was a business that had better
be left to constables, and that he did not approve of freaks of that kind.

Mr. Bale wrote an irascible letter to Bob.

"My dear nephew," he began, "I am astonished, and most seriously displeased, at contents of
communication I have received from a person signing himself J. Langton, admiral. I gather from
it that, instead of pursuing your studies, you are wandering about at night, engaged in pursuits
akin to poaching. I say akin, because I am not aware whether the wild animals upon the common
are the property of the lord of the manor, or whether they are at the mercy of vagabonds. It
appears to me that there can be no proper supervision exercised by your masters.

"I spoke to you when you were here, six weeks ago, as to your school reports which, although
fairly satisfactory as to your abilities, said there was a great want of steadiness in your
general conduct. I am convinced that you are doing no good for yourself, and that the sooner
you settle down to a desk, in my office, the better. I have therefore written this morning,
informing Mr. Tulloch that I shall remove you, at Michaelmas.

"Your sister has been here, with her husband, today. I am sorry to say that they do not view
your wild and lawless conduct in the same light that I do, and that they are unable to see
there is anything positively disreputable in your being mixed up in midnight adventures with
burglars. I am glad to gather, from Admiral Langton's letter, that Mr. Tulloch has seen your
conduct in the proper light, and has inflicted a well-merited punishment upon you.

"All this is a very bad preparation for your future career as a respectable trader, and I am
most annoyed to hear that you will be called on to appear as a witness against the men who
have been captured. I have written to Admiral Langton, acknowledging his letter, and expressing
my surprise that a gentleman in his position should give any countenance, whatever, to a lad
who has been engaged in breaking the rules of his school; and in wandering at night, like a
vagabond, through the country."

Bob looked rather serious as he read through the letter for the first time but, after going
through it again, he burst into a shout of laughter.

"What is it, Bob?" Tom Fullarton asked.

"Read this letter, Tom. I should like to have seen the admiral's face, as he read my uncle's
letter. But it is too bad. You see, I have regularly done for myself. I was to have stopped
here till a year come Christmas, and now I have to leave at Michaelmas. I call it a beastly shame."

It was some consolation to Bob to receive, next morning, a letter from his sister, saying she
was delighted to hear how he had distinguished himself in the capture of the burglars.

"Of course, it was very wrong of you to get out at night; but Gerald says that boys are always
up to tricks of that sort, and so I suppose that it wasn't so bad as it seems to me. Uncle
John pretends to be in a terrible rage about it, but I don't think he is really as angry as
he makes himself out to be. He blew me up, and said that I had always encouraged you--which
of course I haven't--and when Gerald tried to say a good word for you, he turned upon him,
and said something about fellow-feeling making men wondrous kind. The rear wheels had crushed a fragile barrier.

Desnoyers remained in his seat, crouched, stunned, closed his eyes.

The horror will suggested their own destiny. Where would you wore that lieutenant? ...

In the square he saw the town hall that burned, the church was but a shell of stone bristling with
tongues of fire. The houses of wealthier neighbors had their doors and windows broken with an
ax. Inside, the soldiers waved following a methodical swing. Entered empty-handed and there were
laden with furniture and clothing. Others, from the upper floors throwing objects, accompanying
their shipments with jokes and laughter. Suddenly had to leave run. The fire broke out instantly,
with violence and rapidity of an explosion. Followed in the footsteps of a group of men carrying
boxes and metal cylinders.

Someone which was designated the front building, penetrating through its broken windows and pads
liquid jets, the catastrophe occurred in a primer.

Saw emerge from a burning building two men who looked like two piles of rags, carried dragged
by several Germans. Blue stain on their coats distinguished a pale faces, eyes wide open for martyrdom.
His legs dragged on the ground, hovering between the strips of shredded red pants. One of them still
retained the kepi. Expelling blood through various parts of their bodies: they were leaving
behind the white meandering the dressing waste.

Injured were French, who had stayed behind in the village no strength to continue the retreat.
Perhaps it belonged to the group, to be cut, tried a local resistance.

Desiring to establish the truth, looked at the officer beside him
and tried to speak.

But this restrained him, "Franco-shooters in disguise, they will receive their punishment." The
German bayonets sank into their bodies.

After a head fell on the head of one of them ... Y the blows were repeated with dull hammering
on the capsules bone crunching breaking.

Again the old man thought in his own fate. Where are you wearing this lieutenant through so
many visions of horror? ...

They reached the outskirts of town, where the Dragons had set up their roadblock. The carts were still
there, but to one side of the road. They got off the car. Saw a group of Officers dressed in
gray, with the hull sheathed, equal in all to each other. He who had led to this site stood rigid,
with one hand on the hood, talking to a soldier who was a few steps in front of the group. Looked
at this man and he also looked at him a little blue eyes and drives
that pierced his thin face wrinkled.

Should be the general. The arrogant and penetrating eyes covered him from head to foot. Don
Marcelo had a premonition that his life depended on this test.

A bad idea that crosses his brain, a cruel caprice of his imagination, and was lost. He moved
his shoulders General and said a few words frowned.

Then mounted in a car with two of his assistants, and the group disbanded.

The cruel old found endless uncertainty of the times it took for the
official return to his side.

- His Excellency is very good - he said
-.

Could shoot him, but forgives him.

And yet you say that we are savages! ...

With the thoughtlessness of his contempt, he explained that he had brought up to believe there
that will be shot. The general wanted to punish the principal residents of Villeblanche and
he had considered on its own initiative that the owner of the castle
should be one of them.

- The military duty, sir ... Required by the
war.

After this excuse resumed compliments to His Excellency. I was going to stay in the property Don
Marcelo, and this will spare their lives.

Should thank him ... Then again to tremble with anger her cheeks. Noted some bodies lying beside
the road. Were Hulan the four bodies covered with coats and showing some of them below huge soles
of his boots.

- A murder! - Cried -.

A crime that they are going to pay dearly for the culprits!

His anger made him consider it as a fact unprecedented and monstrous
death of four soldiers, as if war should only drop the enemy, remaining
intact life of his countrymen.

Came a group of infantry commanded by an officer.

By opening their ranks saw Desnoyers between gray uniforms rudely pushed several compatriots. Iban
with torn clothing. Some had blood on his face and hands. The recognition was one by one as the lining
next to a wall, twenty yards of the picket the mayor, the priest,
ranger, some rich neighbors whose houses had been burned.

They were going to shoot ... To avoid any doubt, the lieutenant continued his explanation.

- I wanted to see this yourself. Should learn. So better appreciate the kindness of His Excellence.

None
of the prisoners spoke. Had exhausted their voices in protest useless. His whole life focused
on his eyes, looking around in amazement ... And could coldly kill them without hearing their
protests, without admitting the evidence of his innocence!

The certainty of death suddenly gave almost all of them a noble serenity. Useless to complain.
Just a rich peasant, the village famous for their greed, desperate whimpering, repeating: "I do
not want to die ... I do not want to die. "

Trembling and with eyes full of tears, Desnoyers hid behind his relentless companion. All I knew,
had all struggled, now repenting of their old quarrels.

The mayor was in the front of the red spot of a great rendering. On his chest heaved a rag tricolor:
the municipal band, which had been made to welcome the invaders and
they were ripped.

The priest stood his body small and round, trying to cover a look
of resignation on victims, perpetrators, the whole earth and sky.

Seemed thicker.

The black sash, broken by the violence of the soldiers, abdomen was free and floating his
cassock.

The silver mane dripping blood, the red drops splashing White collar.

To see progress on the field of implementation unsteadily because
of his obesity, a Wild laughter cut the tragic silence.

Groups of unarmed soldiers who had come to witness the torture the old man greeted with laughter.
"A cure death !...»

Fanaticism vibrated the religious wars in their mockery.

Almost all of them were Catholic or Protestant zealous, but only
the priests believed in his country.

Outside Germany, everything was negligible, even religion itself.

The mayor and the priest changed place in line, seeking.

They offered each other the center of the group with a formal courtesy.

- Here, Mr. Mayor, this is the place: at the head of all.

- No, after you, Father.

Discussed last time, but in this supreme moment was to be transferred over, wanting kowtowing each
other.

They joined hands instinctively, facing the firing squad, coming down
their guns in a rigid horizontal row.

Behind her cries rang.

"Farewell, my children ... Goodbye, life ... I do not want to die ... !...» Not want to die

The
two men felt the need to say something, you close the page of its existence with a statement.

-
Viva la Republica! - Shouted the mayor.

- Vive la France! - Said the priest.

Desnoyers believed that both had shouted the same thing.

Two vertical rose above their heads: the priest's arm in the air drew a sign the saber squad
leader flashed while livid ... Dry thunder, resounding later followed by several explosions.

Don Marcelo felt sorry for poor humanity to see the grotesque forms
it takes in the moment of death.

Some collapsed as half-empty bags, others bounced on the ground as well as balls, some gymnast
jumped with his arms held high, falling back or face down, in an attitude of swimmer. Leaving
the lot saw how human legs contorted by the tremors of agony ... Soldiers moved with the same
gesture of hunters who go to collect their pieces. In the throb of the members scrambled rose a white
mane and a weak hand that was trying to repeat his sign. Several throws and kicks in the livid
lot of blood dripping ... And the last tremor of life were erased forever.

The officer had lit a cigarette.

- When you like - said to Desnoyers with ironical politeness.

Mounted on the car to cross Villeblanche, returning to the castle. Fires increasingly numerous
and the corpses lying in the streets and the old was not impressed.

He had seen so much! What could alter and their sensitivity? ... I wanted to leave the village
as before, in search of peace of the fields. But the fields had disappeared in the invasion:
soldiers everywhere, horses, guns. Groups at rest destroyed his contact their surroundings. The launch
battalions had overrun all the roads, noisy and automatic like a machine, preceded by the fifes
and drums, tossing from time to when to cheer, his cry of joy: "Nach Paris!"

The castle was also marred by the invasion. Had greatly increased the number of their guardians during
the owner's absence.

He saw a regiment of infantry encamped in the park.

Thousands of men under them trees waved their food prepared in kitchens trailers. The beds in
his garden, exotic plants, carefully sanded Avenues and swept, all broken and worn by the flood
of men and beasts and vehicles.

A chief boasting a distinctive sleeve cuff of the military administration issued orders as
if he were the owner. Neither deigned to fix his eyes on the next civil marching a lieutenant with
shrinking of prisoner. The stables were empty.

Desnoyers saw her conducted last cows out to the shepherds sticks with helmet. Expensive players
were slaughtered everyone in the park as mere beasts of slaughter. In poultry and pigeon was not
a single bird.

The stables were full of emaciated horses that were given a weariness
before the manger full.

The grass is sprinkled liberally stored by the floods, largely lost before being used. The horses
of several squadrons would released through the fields, destroying
at your kick channel, the edges of the slopes, smoothing of the soil,
all work of many months.

The dry wood burning in the park a flared useless.

Carelessness or mischief, someone had applied the fire to their stacks. The trees, the bark dry by
the heat of summer, rustling when licked by the flames.

The building was also occupied by a crowd of men who were due to this boss. Left their windows
open to see a continuous flow through the rooms. Desnoyers heard shock that reverberated in
his chest.

Oh, the historic mansion! ... The general was about to be installed in it, after having examined
the banks of the Marne the work of the pontoon, which established several steps for the troops.
His owner afraid of him speaking. Feared breaks up the bedroom doors closed, she wanted to
go in search of keys for delivery. The commissioner did not listen: it was ignoring its existence.
The lieutenant said with a kindness shear:

- No need, no bother.

And he went to join his regiment. But before he lost sight Desnoyers the officer wanted to
give him advice.

Stay in the castle, outside of it could take a spy, and was already aware of how quickly solved
their affairs soldiers emperor.

He could not stay in the garden watching from afar his home. The Germans
who came and mocked him coming.

Some marched to meet him in a straight line, as if he saw it, and
had to be turned away for not by the mechanical feed and rigid.

Finally took refuge in the flag of the concierge. The woman watched in amazement, dropped into
a seat your kitchen, discouraged, look at the floor, suddenly aged to lose energy that encouraged
a robust old age.

- Ah, sir ... Poor lord!

Of all the attacks of the invasion, the most unheard of for the poor woman was contemplating
the refugee in his own home.

- What will become of us! - Moaned.

Her husband was often called by the invaders. Attendees of His Excellency, installed in the basement
of the castle, claiming to inquire the whereabouts of the things
they could not find.

Of these trips became humiliated, his eyes filled with tears. His forehead the black mark
of a blow, his jacket was torn. Were traces of a feeble attempt opposition during the absence of
the owner to start stripping the Germans stables classrooms.

Millionaire felt bound by misfortune to a people hitherto perceived with indifference. Much appreciated
the loyalty of this sick man and humble. He moved the interest of the poor woman, who looked
as if the castle itself. The presence of The daughter brought to his memory the image of Chichi.
Had passed it without regard to its transformation, seeing the same thing when accompanied
with little dog trot, Mademoiselle Desnoyers on excursions through
the park and surrounding area.

Now she was a woman, thinness the last boom, noting the first through feminine in his body
for fourteen years. The mother would not let go of the flag, fearing the soldiers, who invaded
everything with its current overflowing, seeping into the open places,
breaking the barriers hindered in its path.

Desnoyers silence left
her desperate to confess that he was hungry. He was ashamed of this
material requirement, but the emotions of the day, death, close-up,
the woods yet threatening, awakened in him a nervous appetite. The
fact that it was a miserable in the midst of their wealth and could
not have anything in his domain further increased their need.

- Poor
sir - said the woman again.

And watched with amazement the millionaire
eating a piece of bread and a triangle of cheese, All he could find
in your home. The certainty would not get other food for more searching,
made Don Marcelo continue tormented by his appetite. Having conquered
an enormous fortune, to go hungry at the end of his life! ... The
woman, as though divining their thoughts, moaning, raising her eyes.
From early morning the world had changed its course, everything seemed
upside down. Oh, war! ...

In the rest of the afternoon and part of
the night was getting the news owner the concierge brought him after
his visits to the castle. The general and numerous officers occupied
rooms. There was only one door closed, they were all wide, with rifle
butts and axes. Gone were many things, the doorman did not know how,
but had disappeared, perhaps broken, perhaps stolen by those who came
and went. The head of Cuff went from room to room examining everything,
dictating in German to a soldier writing. Meanwhile, the general and
his men were in the dining room. Drink plenty and consulted maps spread
out on the floor. The poor man had to descend into the caves in search
of the best wines.

At nightfall, it was a movement of this human
tide flow fields covering out of sight. Had been established several
bridges over the Marne and the invasion resumed their advance. The
regiments were put up by throwing her scream with excitement: "Nach
Paris! "Those who stayed to continue the next day were settled in
houses ruined or outdoors. Desnoyers heard singing. Under the glare
of the first stars soldiers were grouped as choruses, their voices
form a choral solemn and sweet of religious gravity. Floating above
the trees a red cloud in the shade for more intense. It was the reflection
of the people, still aflame. In the distance, other farm fires and
villages cut off the night with their blinking bloody.

The old man
ended up falling asleep in the bed of their caretakers, with heavy,
brutalizing sleep Fatigue, smooth or nightmares. Fell and fell into
a dark hole and never ending. Upon awakening, he imagined that he
had slept only a few minutes. "We were just machines at the time,
both of us. But he talked in quite a different way when we were down fishing together, three
weeks ago. He said then you were rather a pickle, and that he didn't think you would do yourself
any good where you were, so that he was going to bring you up to business.

"'I don't want him to turn out a dull blockhead,' he said, 'and so I propose that you should
take charge of him, and teach him to keep himself young. I wish I had done it, myself.'

"And so it was settled.

"There is no better employer in the city than your uncle. There is not a man or boy about the
place who isn't well paid, and contented. I used to think myself a lucky man, before we went
out fishing together for the first time but, six months after that, he gave me a rise that
pretty well took my breath away.

"Ah! Here come the young uns."

A couple of minutes later, four young people ran up. There was a boy about Bob's age, a girl
a year younger, a boy, and another girl, in regular steps. They greeted their father with a
joyous shout of welcome.

"So you have got everything done," he said. "I thought you would meet me somewhere here.

"This is Bob Repton, my employer's nephew, and future member of the firm. Treat him with all
respect, and handle him gently. He is a desperate fellow, though he doesn't look it. This is
the young gentleman I told you of, who made a night expedition and captured four burglars."

After this introduction, Bob was heartily shaken by the hand, all round; and the party proceeded
on their way, the two girls holding their father's hand, the boys walking behind, with Bob,
who was so surprised at the unexpected turn affairs had taken that, for a time, he almost lost
his usual readiness of speech.

Chapter 3: An Unexpected Journey.

Hawthorne Cottage, Mr. Medlin's abode, was a pretty little house, standing detached in a good-sized
garden, surrounded by a high wall.

"Here we are, mother," the clerk said, as he led the way into a cozy room, where tea was laid
upon the table, while a bright fire blazed in the grate.

A very pleasant-faced lady, who did not look to Bob more than thirty--although she must have
been four or five years older--greeted her husband affectionately.

"My dear," he said, "in the exuberance of your feelings, you forget that I have brought you
home a visitor. This is Mr. Robert Repton. While he is resident in the house, he may be greeted
as Bob. We had a race, and he runs faster than Jack; fifty yards, in four hundred and twenty,
is the utmost I can give him."

"What nonsense you do talk, Will!" his wife said, laughing. "I am sure Master Repton must think
you out of your mind."

"It is a very jolly way of being out of his mind, Mrs. Medlin. You don't know how pleased I am."

"He thought I was an ogre, my dear, and that you were an ogress.

"Now let the banquet be served; for I am hungry, and I expect Bob is, too. As for the children,
they are always hungry--at least, it seems so."

It was a merry meal, and Bob thought he had never enjoyed one as much, except at his sister's.
After tea they had music; and he found that Mr. Medlin performed admirably on the violin, his
wife played the spinet, Jack the clarionet, and Sophy--the eldest girl--the piccolo.

"She is going to learn the harp, presently," Mr. Medlin explained; "but for the present, when
we have no visitors--and I don't count you one, after this evening--she plays the piccolo.
She is a little shy about it, but shyness is the failing of my family."

"It is very jolly," Bob said. "I wish I could play an instrument."

"We will see about it, in time, Bob. We want a French horn; but I don't see, at present, where
you are to practise."

"Has uncle ever been here?" Bob asked, late in the evening.

"Yes, he came here the evening we got back from our fishing expedition. He wanted to see the
place, before he finally settled about you coming here. My wife was a little afraid of him;
but there was no occasion, and everything went off capitally--except that Sophy would not produce
her piccolo. I walked back with him, till he came upon a hackney coach.

"He said as he got in, 'I have spent a most pleasant evening, Medlin. You are a very lucky fellow.'

"I went back to work the next morning, and we both dropt into the old groove; and nothing more
was said until yesterday, when he informed me that you would come, today."

"Oh, dear!" Bob said, as he started with the clerk, at eight o'clock on the following morning.
"Now I am going to begin at that wretched counting house."

"No, you are not, Bob. You are not coming in there, at present. When your uncle and I were
talking--when we were fishing, you know--he said that he saw no use in your going in there,
at present; and thought it would be quite time for you to learn how the books are kept, in
another three or four years; and that, till then, you could go into the cellar. You will learn
bottling, and packing, and blending, and something about the quality and value of wines. You
will find it much more pleasant than being shut up in a counting house, making out bills and
keeping ledgers."

"A great deal," Bob said, joyfully. "I sha'n't mind that at all." 

Finding out free Don Marcelo saw the poor woman with red eyes, the bony face, hair in disarray.
The night had gravitated to its existence with a weight many years. All their energy suddenly
vanished as he recognized the owner. "Lord ... sir! " moaned convulsively. And she threw herself
into his arms weeping.

Don Marcelo did not want to know anything, was afraid of the truth. However, asked the concierge.
Now he was awake and free, stroked momentary hope that everything
seen him last night was a nightmare.

Perhaps the poor man was still alive ...

- They killed him, sir ... What killed the man who looked good ... I do not know where your body:
nobody wanted to tell me.

He suspected that the body was in the pit. The waters were calm green mysteriously closed on the
offering of the night ... Desnoyers guessed that another disaster
further concern to the mother, but remained coy silence.

It was she who spoke, including cries of pain ... Georgette was in the hall, the castle had fled
in horror the departure of the invaders.

They had kept in his possession until the last minute.

- Lord, do not see ... Trembles and weeps to think that you can talk after what happened. It's
crazy, wants to die. Oh, my daughter ... And none shall punish these monsters? ...

They had left the underground and crossed the bridge. The woman stared at the green water and united.
The body of a swan floating on them.

Before leaving, while saddling horses, two officers had fun hunting revolver shots to residents
of the lagoon. Aquatic plants had blood between the leaves floated a white studs and sagged, as
canvases escaped from the hands of a laundress.

Don Marcelo and the woman exchanged a look of pity.

It is pity to look at each other sunlight to his misery and aging.

She felt reborn their energies to thinking about the daughter. The passage of these people
had destroyed everything in the castle was no other food than a forgotten piece of stale bread
in the kitchen. "And we must live, sir ... We must live, if only to see how punished God ... "The
old man shrugged his shoulders in despair:" God? ... But this woman was right: had to live.

With the audacity of his youth, when he sailed the seas infinite ground new world leading troops of
cattle, was launched outside the park. He saw the valley, yellow and green smiling in the
sun, the groups of trees, the yellow square of land, with harsh beard
stubble, the hedges, where birds sang, the whole summer splendor a
cultivated countryside and combed for fifteen centuries by dozens
and dozens of generations.

And yet, it was considered alone, at the mercy of fate, exposed to perish from hunger, more
just when going through the horrendous high Andes, the winding of rock and snow peaks involved in
a deadly silence, interrupted from time to time by the flapping of the condor. Nobody ...
His view did not distinguish a single movable point: everything fixed, motionless, crystallized, as
if contrajese to dread the thunder was rolling on the skyline.

He went to town, a mass of black walls of several huts emerging intact
and a bell tower without tiles, with the cross twisted by fire. Nobody
planted either in the streets bottles, charred wood, soot-covered
rubble. The bodies had disappeared, but a rotten stench of grease,
burnt flesh, seemed to hold to the nostrils. We went through everything,
until you reach the site occupied by the barricade of dragons. The
wagons were still on one side of the road. He saw a mound of earth
at the same Instead of shooting. Two feet and one hand sticking to
the ground. All four were
sentenced to be hung, and the judge warmly complimented the four boys upon their conduct in
the matter.

The next morning, Bob returned to his work in the city.

For the next three months, his existence was a regular one. On arriving in the cellar, he took
off his jacket and put on a large apron, that completely covered him; and from that time until
five o'clock he worked with the other boys: bottling, packing, storing the bottles away in
the bins, or taking them down as required. He learned, from the foreman, something of the localities
from which the wine came, their value and prices; but had not begun to distinguish them by
taste, or bouquet. Mr. Bale, the foreman said, had given strict orders that he was not to begin
tasting, at present.

Three days before Christmas, one of the clerks brought him down word that Mr. Bale wished to
see him in the office, at five o'clock.

During the three, months he had scarcely spoken to his uncle. The latter had nodded to him,
whenever he came into the cellar; and had regularly said, "Well, Robert, how are you getting on?"

To which he had, as regularly, replied, "Very well, uncle."

He supposed that the present meeting was for the purpose of inviting him to dine at Philpot
Lane, on Christmas Day; and although he knew that he should enjoy the festivity more, at Hackney,
he was prepared to accept it very willingly.

"I have sent for you, Robert," Mr. Bale said, when he entered his office, "to say that your
sister has written to ask me to go down to spend Christmas with her, at Portsmouth. As her
husband's regiment is on the point of going abroad, I have decided on accepting her invitation
and, for the same reason, I shall take you down with me. You will therefore have your box packed,
tonight. I shall send down a cart to fetch it, tomorrow. You will sleep here tomorrow night,
and we start the next morning."

"Thank you very much, uncle," Bob said, in delight; and then, seeing that nothing further was
expected of him, he ran off to join Mr. Medlin, who was waiting for him outside.

"What do you think, Mr. Medlin? I am going down to spend Christmas at my sister's."

"Ah!" the clerk said, in a dull unsympathetic voice. "Well, mind how you walk, Mr. Robert.
It does not look well, coming out from a place of business as if you were rushing out of school."

Bob knew well enough that it was no use, whatever, trying to get his companion to take any
interest in matters unconnected with business, at present; so he dropped into his regular pace,
and did not open his lips again, until they had passed the usual boundary.

Then Mr. Medlin said, briskly, "So you are going down to your sister's, Bob!"

"Yes, that will be first rate, won't it? Of course, I went down in the summer to Canterbury,
and hardly expected to go again this year. As I have only been three months here, I did not
even think of going.

"It will be the last holiday I shall have, for some time. You know Carrie said, when she wrote
to me a month ago, that the regiment expected to be ordered abroad soon; and uncle said it
is on the point of going, now.

"He is coming down with me."

His voice fell a little, at this part of the announcement.

"He is, eh? You think you will have to be on your best behaviour, Bob?"

"Before you told me about him, Mr. Medlin, I should have thought it would quite spoil the holiday.
But I do not feel it so bad, now."

"He will be all right, Bob. You have never seen him outside the city, yet. Still, I shouldn't
be up to any tricks with him, you know, if I were you--shouldn't put cobbler's wax on his pigtail,
or anything of that sort."

"As if I should think of such a thing, Mr. Medlin!"

"Well, I don't know, Bob. You have made Jack pretty nearly as wild as you are, yourself. You
are quite a scandal to the neighbourhood, you two. You nearly frightened those two ladies next
door into fits, last week, by carrying in that snowman, and sticking it up in their garden,
when you knew they were out. I thought they were both going to have fits, when they rushed
in to tell me there was a ghost in their garden."

"I believe you suggested it yourself, Mr. Medlin," Bob said, indignantly. "Besides, it served
them right, for coming in to complain that we had thrown stones and broken their window, when
we had done nothing of the sort."

"It was rather lucky for you that they did so, Bob; for you see, we were all so indignant,
then, that they didn't venture to accuse you of the snowman business--though I have no doubt
they were convinced, in their own minds, that it was you. But that is only one out of twenty
pranks that you and Jack have been up to."

"Jack and I and someone else, Mr Medlin. We carry them out, but I think someone else always
suggests them."

"Not suggest, Bob--far from it. If I happen to say that it would be a most reprehensible thing
if anyone were to do something, somehow or other that is the very thing that Jack and you do.
It was only last week I said that it would be a very objectionable trick if anyone was to tie
paper bands round the neck of the clergyman's black cat--who is always stealing our chickens--and
to my surprise, the next morning, when we started for business, there was quite a crowd outside
his house, watching the cat calmly sitting over the porch, with white bands round its neck.
Now, that is an example of what I mean."

"Quite so, Mr. Medlin, that is just what I meant, too; and it was much better than throwing
stones at him. It is a savage beast, though it does look so demure; and scratched Jack's hand
and mine, horribly, when we were tying on the bands."

At the tree the others met them, and they laughed and chatted all the way back; the young ones
expressing much regret, however, that Bob was to be away at Christmas.

At the appointed time, Mr. Bale and Bob took their places on the coach. The latter felt a little
oppressed; for his uncle had, the evening before, been putting him through a sort of examination
as to the value of wines; and had been exceedingly severe when Bob had not acquitted himself
to his satisfaction, but had mixed up Malaga with Madeira, and had stated that a French wine
was grown near Cadiz.

"I expect I shall know them better when I get to taste them," Bob had urged, in excuse. "When
you don't know anything about the wines, it is very difficult to take an interest in them.
It is like learning that a town in India is on the Ganges. You don't care anything about the
town, and you don't care anything about the Ganges; and you are sure to mix it up, next time,
with some other town on some other river."

"If those are your ideas, Robert, I think you had better go to bed," Mr. Bale had said, sternly;
and Bob had gone to bed, and had thought what a nuisance it was that his uncle was going down
to Portsmouth, just when he wanted to be jolly with Carrie and her husband for the last time.

Little had been said at breakfast, and it was not until the coach was rattling along the high
road, and the last house had been left behind him, that Bob's spirits began to rise. There
had been a thaw, a few days before, and the snow had disappeared; but it was now freezing sharply
again.

"The air is brisk. Do you feel it cold, Robert?" Mr. Bale said, breaking silence for the first
time.

"I feel cold about the toes, and about the ears and nose, uncle," Bob said, "but I am not very
likely to feel cold, anywhere else."

His uncle looked down at the boy, who was wedged in between him and a stout woman.

"Well, no," he agreed; "you are pretty closely packed. You had better pull that muffler over
your ears more. It was rather different weather when you went down to Canterbury in the summer."

"That it was," Bob replied, heartily. "It was hot and dusty, just; and there were a man and
woman, sitting opposite, who kept on drinking out of a bottle, every five minutes. She had
a baby with her, too, who screamed almost all the way. I consider I saved that baby's life."

"How was that, Robert?"

"Well you see, uncle, they had finished their bottle by the time we got to Sevenoaks; and we
all got down for dinner there and, before we sat down, the man went to the bar and got it filled
up again. A pint of gin, filled up with water--I heard him order it. He put it in the pocket
of his coat, and hung the coat up on a peg when he sat down to dinner. These painters! ... Like his son! And was moved to think low life of the
director in July.

- My respected Dona Luisa ... Dear Madame Desnoyers ...

He spoke French and he cries, looking at the door where he had gone
white flutter and pink.

Trembled at the thought that the hidden companion zealous incur errors committed with an untimely appearance.

Then
they spoke of the soldier. The two were communicating their news. Doña Luisa repeated almost verbatim
paragraphs of his letters, re-read many times. Argensola declined modestly to teach texts of
their own.

The two friends used an epistolary style that would have blushed to the good lady.

- A courageous - he said proudly, considering the acts of his own partner - a true hero and I, Madame
Desnoyers, I understand some of this ... His bosses know how to appreciate ...

July was a sergeant at the two months of campaigning.

The captain of his company and other officers the regiment belonged to the circle of fencing where he
had obtained so many victories.

- What a race! - Continued -. It is young people who come to the higher grades, such as generals
of the Revolution ... And what of exploits!

The soldier was only slightly mentioned in his letters some of his
acts, indifference of living accustomed to danger and appreciated
his comrades as a throw.

But the bohemian the exaggerated, lauded as if they were the most climactic events of the war.
Had taken an order through a hellish fire, dropped dead after three messengers without to
fulfill the same request. He had jumped the first to attack and saved
many trenches with bayonets in hand to hand shock, to many comrades.

When his bosses needed a trustworthy man, invariably say: "That call Sergeant Desnoyers."

I said as if he had witnessed, as if he had just returned from the war, and Dona Luisa shaking,
crying tears of joy and fear at the thought of the glories and dangers
of your child.

Argensola He had the gift of touching, by the vehemence with which he related things.

Believed that enthusiasm should thank both showing some interest in
the person of panegyrist ... What had he done recently?

...

- I, madam, I have been where he belonged. I have not moved from here. I witnessed the "place" Paris.

Protested
in vain that his reason for the inaccuracy of this term. Influenced by his readings about the
war in 1870, called "place" to operations together to Paris for During the Battle of the Marne.

Modestly pointed to a framed diploma of gold as on the piano, with
the a tricolor background.

It was a role that was sold on the streets: a certificate of residence in the capital during
the week of danger. He had filled in the blanks with their names and qualities and at the foot containing
the signatures of two residents of the rue de la Pompe: A bartender and a friend the concierge.
The district police commissioner guaranteed to seal section and responsibility
of these honorable witnesses.

No one would doubt, after this caution, if he had witnessed or not
the "place" in Paris.

I was so incredulous friends! ...

To move to the good lady, did report their impressions. I had seen in broad daylight a flock
of sheep on the boulevard, next to the gate of the Magdalena. His steps were awake in many
streets echo of the dead cities. He was the only passer: in sidewalks wandering dogs and cats.

Their
military memorabilia, cheered him as murmurs of glory.

- I've seen over the Moroccan ... I've seen the Zouaves car.

The same night that Julio had left for Bordeaux, he wandered until dawn, following a flood line
halfway across Paris, from the Lion of Belfort to the Gare de l'Est. Twenty thousand men, with
all his campaign material, from Morocco, had landed in Marseilles and arrived at the capital, part of
the journey by rail and another on foot. Came to intervene in the great battle was beginning.
Troops were composed of Europeans and Africans. The vanguard, on entering the door of Orleans,
began gymnastic step, and half through Paris to the Gare de l'Est, where they hoped trains.

The neighborhood saw spahis squads of theatrical uniforms, mounted on their horses nervous and
thin, yellow-turbaned Moroccans shooters, shooters Senegalese black
face and red cap, gunners colonial African hunters.

They were professional fighters, soldiers in peacetime living fighting in the colonies, energetic
profiles, faces tanned, eyes of prey.

The long parade was immobilized on the streets for hours To allow time for settling into the train
the forces that went before ... And Argensola had followed this armed mass from the boulevards and
motionless at the door of Orleans, speaking with the officers, hearing the cries of the warriors
naive Africans who had never seen Paris and crossed it without curiosity,
wondering where the enemy was.

- Arrived in time to attack von Kluck
on the banks of Oureq, driven back on pain of being involved.

She did not foresee was that his trip Argensola night along the corps had been accompanied
by the gentle person inside and two friends more, enthusiastic group and generous handing out flowers
and kisses to the soldiers, tanned, laughing at the astonishment with which I showed her white teeth.

Another
day, had seen the most extraordinary events of the war. All cars rent, about two thousand vehicles,
loading battalions of Zouaves, to eight men for carriage and going at full speed, bristling with
guns and red caps. Formed on the boulevards a picturesque procession, a kind of endless wedding. And
the soldiers descended from the car in the same room for the battle,
firing and jumping off the bracket.

All men who knew how the gun Gallieni had launched against the extreme right of the enemy in the
supreme moment when victory was still uncertain and could smallest weight decide. Scribes of
military offices, ordinances, individuals from the police, gendarmes, everyone had left for the final
push, forming a heterogeneous mass of colors.

And on Sunday afternoon, when his three companions to "place" was sunbathing in the Forest Bologna
among thousands of Parisians learned from the special papers the fighting that had developed near
the city and was going away was a great battle, a victory.

- I've seen much, Madame Desnoyers ... I can tell great things.

And she approved: yes I had seen Argensola ... When he left he offered his support. He was
the friend his son and was accustomed to his requests. Times had changed, Don Marcelo was now a
boundless generosity ... But the bohemian interrupted her with a
lordly gesture: lived in abundance.

July he was appointed its director. The shift of America had been recognized by the Bank as
a deposit amount, and could have a both percent, according to the
decrees on the moratorium.

Her friend sent a check provided I needed money for the upkeep of
the house.

He had never been in a situation as well off.

The war also has its good ... But with the desire not be lost morality, announced it would
rise again by the back stairs to take a basket of bottles ...

Doña Luisa, after the departure of his sister, went alone to the churches,
until suddenly was seen with an unexpected partner.

- Mom, I'm with
you ...

Was Chichi, who seemed to feel an ardent devotion.

And did not encourage the house with loud and manly joy, no longer
threatened the enemy with stabs imaginary.

She was pale, sad, with eyes of blue haloed.

Bowed head as if gravitas across his forehead, a block of serious thoughts, completely new.

Doña
Luisa in the church watched with jealous spite. Her eyes were moist, as than she prayed fervently,
as she ... but it was probably his brother. July had passed into second place in their memories.
Another man in distress filled his mind.

The last Lacour was no longer a simple soldier and was in Paris.

Upon arriving in Biarritz, Chichi had listened eagerly exploits of his "soldier sugar. " He
wanted to know, throbbing with emotion, all the dangers to which he had been subjected and
the young warrior "ancillary services" spoke of his concerns at the
office during endless days in which troops fought near Paris, hearing
from outside the thunder of artillery.

His father had wanted to take him to Bordeaux, but the administrative confusion Late kept in the
capital.

Something else had done. The day of hard work, when the governor of the place in cars launched
valid to all men, had taken a gun, without anyone calling him, occupying a vehicle with others in
your office. I had not seen more than smoke, burned houses, killed and wounded. Not a single
German went before him, except to a group of prisoners Hulan. There been several hours lying
at a roadside shooting ... And nothing else.

For the moment, was enough to Chichi. She felt proud of being the girlfriend of a hero the Marne, but
its intervention would have been a few hours. But to pass the days, his character was overshadowed.

Bothered
him out into the street to René, soldier, and ancillary services
in addition ... The Village women, excited by the memory of the men
who fought in the front or dressed mourns the death of any of them
were aggressive insolence.

The delicacy and Republican Prince elegance seemed to irritate them. She heard repeatedly
passing thick words against "ambush."

The idea that his brother, who was not French, I was paddling, made him even more intolerable Lacour
situation. Boyfriend sought a "ambushed." I laugh at your friends! ...

The senator's son no doubt guessed her thoughts, and this made him
lose his peace of mind smiling.

For three days did not show up at the house of Desnoyers. Everyone thought he was held by a clerical
job.

One morning, speaking to Chichi Forest Avenue escorted by her maid
coppery, he saw a soldier who was walking toward her.

He wore a brand new uniform, the new blue-gray color "horizon", adopted
by the French army.

The chin strap of the kepi was gold and carried a small sleeves piece
of gold.

His smile, his outstretched hands, the safety coming towards her, did recognize. René official!
... Her boyfriend, Lieutenant!

- Yes, I can not anymore ... I've heard enough.

Behind the father and using his friends had done in a few days this transformation. As a student
at Central School, could be a second lieutenant in the reserve artillery,
and had requested that we send to the front.

After the auxiliary service!

... Within two days was about to leave for war.

- You have done
that! - Exclaimed Chichi -.

You made it! ...

He looked pale, with greatly enlarged eyes, eyes that seemed to devour
admiration.

- Come, my poor baby ... Come here, sweet soldier ...
I owe you something.

And turning his back to the girl, invited him to immediately turn a corner. It was the same:
cross street was as crowded as the avenue.

But the care they gave to it the curious! ... Vehemently, threw her arms around his neck,
blind and insensible to everything that was not him.

- Takes ... making.

Planted two kisses on her face violent, loud, aggressive.

Then, hesitating on his legs, suddenly faint, put her handkerchief to her eyes and began to mourn
desperately.

II

In the study

When you open a door later, Argensola stood motionless, as if the surprise would have nailed their
feet on the ground.

An old man greeted him with a friendly smile.

- I am the parent of July.

And he went forward with the confidence of a man who knows perfectly
where you are.

Fortunately, the painter was alone and did not need to run from one side to another hiding the
vestiges of a good company.

It took some time to recover from his emotion.

I had heard much of Don Marcelo and temper, which caused him great anxiety appear unexpectedly in
the studio ... What did the dreaded lord?

His quiet was to examine the sly reborn. He had long since aviejado beginning of the war. No
longer to the gesture of tenacity and humor that seemed to repel evil unto the nations. His eyes
shone with a childish joy, his hands trembled slightly; his back
hunched.

Argensola, who had fled always find him in the street and experienced greatest fears to climb the
back stairs of his home, now felt a sudden confidence. He smiled as to a comrade gave excuses for
his visit.

Wanted to see the home of his son. Poor old fellow ... He drew the same attraction love you,
to cheer his solitude, which includes the places frequented the beloved. It was not enough letters
of July: I needed to see their former home, rubbing all objects that had surrounded him, breathing
the same air, talking to the young man who was his intimate partner.

Painter noticed parental eyes ... "An interesting young man this Argensola."

And to think this did not remember the times she had called "rogue" without knowing, just because
accompanied his son into a life of reproach.

Desnoyers's gaze wandered with delight by the study. He knew the carpets, furniture, all the trimmings
from the old owner. The memory made things easy I had bought in his life, in spite of being
so. Her eyes now sought the personal, I could evoke the image of the absent. And the tables
were set just outlined, unfinished studies that filled the corners.

Everything was in July?

... Many of the paintings belonged to Argensola, but the latter, influenced the emotion of
the old, showed great generosity. Yes, all of July ... And the father was from painting to
painting, pausing with a look of admiration at the sketches more reports, as if sensing her confusion
in the disordered visions of genius.

- You have talent, right? -
Asked, pleading a favorable word -. I've always believed intelligent
... Some Devil, but the character changes over the years ... Now another
man.

And almost wept to hear how the Spanish, with all the vehemence
of his verbosity early enthusiasm, extolled the absent, describing
him as a great artist that astonished the world when you arrive on
time.

The painter of souls at the end he was so moved as the father.
Admire this old man some remorse. I did not want to remember what
was said against him in another era. What injustice! ...

Don Marcelo
grabbed his hand as a partner. Your child's friends were his friends.
He does not know how young people lived. If you ever had a trouble,
if I needed a pension to keep painting, he was there, eager to help.
For now, we hoped to eat at home that night, and if I wanted to go
every night, much better. Eat with your family, modestly, the war
had changed the customs, but would be in the privacy of a home, as
if you were at the home of his parents. Even spoke of Spain, to be
more pleasing to the artist. Had only been there once, briefly, but
after the war thought go everywhere. His father was Spanish, his wife
was of Spanish blood in his house Castilian as the language used for
privacy. Ah, Spain, past noble characters proud! ...

Argensola suspected
of belonging it to another nation, the old man would also praised.
This affection was not a reflection of the love of his absent son,
but he was grateful. And almost Don Marcelo embraced by saying goodbye

After
this afternoon were very frequent visits to the study. The painter
had to recommend to the friends a good walk after lunch, refraining
from appearing in the rue de la Pompe before night fell. But Don Marcelo
sometimes appeared unexpectedly morning, and he had to run from side
to side, covering here, removing further, to the shop retains a laborious
virtue.

- Youth ... Youth! - Murmured the old man with a smile of
tolerance.

And I had to make an effort to remember the dignity of
their years, not to seek to Argensola to submit to the fugitive, whose
presence glimpsed in the inner rooms. They were perhaps friends of
his son, were a part of his past, and this was enough to believe in
these great qualities that made them interesting. Of course
my correspondent writes cautiously, but in his last letter he strongly advises me to buy largely,
at once, as there is no saying about the future; and several of my friends in the trade have
received similar advice.

"I have put the boy into the cellar for, at the moment, I could see nothing else to do with
him. But really, the routine he is learning is of little importance, and there is no occasion
for him to learn to do these things himself. He would pick up all he wants to know there, when
he came back, in a very short time."

"Then what are you thinking of doing, uncle?" Carrie asked, after a pause, as she saw that
Mr. Bale expected her to say something.

"It seems to me that a way has opened out of the difficulty. I don't want him to go back to
school again. He knows quite as much Latin as is required, in an importer of wines. I want
him to learn Spanish and Portuguese, and to become a gentleman, and a man of the world. I have
stuck to Philpot Lane, all my life; but there is no reason why he should do so, after me. Things
are changing in the city, and many of our merchants no longer live there, but have houses in
the country, and drive or ride to them. Some people shake their heads over what they call newfangled
notions. I think it is good for a man to get right away from his business, when he has done work.

"But this is not the point. Bob is too young to begin to learn the business abroad. Two years
too young, at least. But there is no reason why he should not begin to learn Spanish. Now,
I thought if I could find someone I could intrust him to, where his home would be bright and
pleasant, he might go there for a couple of years. Naturally I should be prepared to pay a
fair sum--say 200 pounds a year--for him, for of course no one is going to be bothered with
a boy, without being paid for it."

Carrie listened for something further to come. Then her husband broke in:

"I see what you are driving at, Mr. Bale, and Carrie and myself would be delighted to have him.

"Don't you see, Carrie? Your uncle means that Bob shall stop with us, and learn the language
there."

"That would be delightful!" Carrie exclaimed, enthusiastically. "Do you really mean that, uncle?"

"That is really what I do mean, niece. It seems to me that that is the very best thing we could
do with the young scamp."

"It would be capital!" Carrie went on. "It is what I should like above everything."

"A nicer arrangement couldn't be, Mr. Bale. It will suit us all. Bob will learn the language,
he will be a companion to Carrie when I am on duty, and we will make a man of him. But he won't
be able to go out with us, I am afraid. Officers' wives and families get their passages in
the transports, but I am afraid it would be no use to ask for one for Bob. Besides, we sail
in four days."

"No, I will arrange about his passage, and so on.

"Well, I am glad that my proposal suits you both. The matter has been worrying me for the last
three months, and it is a comfort that it is off my mind.

"I will go back to my hotel now. I will send Bob round in the morning, and you can tell him
about it."

Chapter 4: Preparations For A Voyage.

Bob went round to the barracks at half past nine.

"Uncle says you have a piece of news to tell me, Carrie."

"My dear Bob," Captain O'Halloran said, "your uncle is a broth of a boy. He would do credit
to Galway; and if anyone says anything to the contrary, I will have him out tomorrow morning."

"What has he been doing?" Bob asked.

"I told you, Carrie, yesterday, he wasn't a bit like what he seemed."

"Well, Bob, you are not going to stay at his place of business any longer."

"No! Where is he going to send me--to school again? I am not sure I should like that, Carrie.
I didn't want to leave, but I don't think I should like to go back to Caesar, and Euclid, and
all those wretched old books again."

"Well, you are not going, Bob."

"Hurry up, Carrie!" her husband said. "Don't you see that you are keeping the boy on thorns?
Tell him the news, without beating about the bush."

"Well, it is just this, Bob. You are to come out for two years to live with us, at Gibraltar,
and learn Spanish."

Bob threw his cap up to the ceiling, with a shout of delight; executed a wild dance, rushed
at his sister and kissed her violently, and shook hands with her husband.

"That is glorious!" he said, when he had sufficiently recovered himself for speech. "I said
uncle was a brick, didn't I? But I never dreamt of such a thing as this."

"He is going to pay, very handsomely, while you are with us, Bob, so it will be really a great
help to us. Besides, we will like to have you with us. But you will have to work hard at Spanish,
you know."

"Oh, I will work hard," Bob said, confidently.

"And be very steady," Captain O'Halloran said, gravely.

"Of course," Bob replied. "But who are you going to hire to teach me that?"

"You are an impudent boy, Bob," his sister said, while Captain O'Halloran burst out laughing.

"Sure, he has us both there, Carrie. I wonder your uncle did not make a proviso that we were
to get one of the padres to look after him."

"As if I would let a Spanish priest look after me!" Bob said.

"I didn't mean a Spanish priest, Bob. I meant one of the army chaplains. We always call them
padres.

"That would be worth thinking about, Carrie."

"Oh, I say," Bob exclaimed in alarm, "that would spoil it, altogether!"

"Well, we will see how you go on, Bob. We may not find it necessary, you know; but you will
find you have to mind your P's and Q's, at Gib. It is a garrison place, you know, and they
won't stand nonsense there. If you played any tricks, they would turn you outside the lines,
or send you up to one of the caverns to live with the apes."

"Are there apes?" Bob asked, eagerly. "They would be awful fun, I should think. I have seen
them at Exeter 'Change."

"There are apes, Bob; but if you think you are going to get near enough to put salt on their
tails, you are mistaken."

"But am I going out with you?" Bob asked. "Why, tomorrow is Christmas Day, and you sail two
days after, don't you? And I shouldn't have time even to go up to town, and down to Putney,
to say goodbye to the fellows. I should like to do that, and tell them that I am going abroad."

"You are not going with us, Bob, and you will have time for all that. We could not take you
in the transport, and uncle will arrange for a passage for you, in some ship going out. Of
course, he knows all about vessels trading with Spain."

"Well, we sha'n't have to say goodbye, now," Bob said. "I haven't said much about it, but I
have been thinking a lot about how horrid it would be, after being so jolly here, to have to
say goodbye; knowing that I shouldn't see you again, for years and years. Now that is all over."

A few minutes later, Mr. Bale came in. For Dona Luisa,
the French nation was Lourdes. In discussions with her sister and other foreign ladies calling for
the extermination of France for his wickedness, the good lady summed up his opinion always with
the same words: "When Madonna wanted to appear in our times, chose to France. Do not be so
bad this country as they say ... When I see that appears in Berlin, will discuss again. "

But Desnoyers was not to recall the naive views of his mother. No sooner had installed in his hotel
by the river, ran to the great inn converted into a hospital. Guardians told him that until the
afternoon I could not talk with the director. To entertain his impatience walked down the street
that leads to the basilica, all of huts and tents with pictures and memories pious, that make it a
long bazaar. Here and in the immediate to the church gardens convalescent saw only that they
kept in their uniforms in the footsteps of combat. The coats were dirty, in spite of repeated
brushings. The mud, blood, rain, had left indelible marks on them, giving them a stiff cardboard.
Some wounded tore the sleeves, to prevent cruel to rub his arms broken. Others sported pants
still tear the helmet shell.

Were all arms and fighters of various races, infants, horsemen, artillery, soldiers of the metropolis
and the colonies, French farmers and African sharpshooters; heads blondes Mohammedan pale faces
and black faces of Senegal, with fiery eyes and lips bluish showing a good-natured air obesity and
sedentary bourgeois suddenly become a warrior, others lean, nervous, aggressive profile, as men
born to fight and alien armies in the field.

The city visited to impulses of hope for the sick of seeing invaded Catholicism now a crowd no less
painful, but dressed in carnival colors. All in spite of his physical despair, they had an
air of ease and satisfaction. Had seen near death, slipping between his bony claws, and found
a new flavor to the joy of living. With their cloaks decorated with medals, their theatrical
alquiceles, his kepi and African hats, the crowd gave heroic but a sorry. Very few preserved in
her the noble upright, pride of human superiority. Advanced stooped, limping, crawling, leaning on a
stick or a friendly arm. Others were left lying on push carts that had been used many times to
lead the sick pious from the station to the grotto of the Virgin. Some walked to the blind, with
eyes sale together with a child or a nurse. The first shock in Belgium and in the East, media
dozen battles, had sufficed to produce such physical ruins, which appeared manly beauty with
the most horrible outrages ... These organisms stubbornly insisted to survive, walking in the
sun its resurgent energy, represented only a tiny part of the great harvest of death. Behind
them were thousands and thousands of comrades mourning beds in hospitals and may not ever be lifted.
Thousands and thousands were forever hidden in the bowels of the earth is wet slime dying,
land fatal to receive a shower of missiles returned as a crop scrub crosses.

The war was the sight of Desnoyers with all its cruel hideousness. Had talked about it until then
as we talk of death to full health, knowing that it exists and is
horrible, but seeing so far ... So far! that gives a real thrill.

Explosions of the shells was accompanied by his brutality shredder with a fierce derision, grotesquely
disfiguring the human body. He saw wounded began to regain its vital force and were only sketches
men, horrible cartoons, human rags saved from the grave for the daring of science head backs
with crawling on the floor on a wheeled base, incomplete skulls with brains beat in a covered artificial
beings without arms and legs resting on the bottom of a carretoncillo as sketches or sculptural
pieces dissection, showing faces without noses, like the skulls, the black cavity his nostrils.
And these half men talked, smoked, laughed, pleased to see the sky, to feel the caress of the
sun, to be back into existence, encouraged by the sovereign will of living that you forget
this misery confident waiting for something better.

Such was his impression that he forgot for some time why he had crawled there ... If those who lead
the war from diplomatic cabinets or tables of Staff could contemplate, not the battlefield, with
the enthusiasm that disrupts the senses but cold, as seen in hospitals
and cemeteries for the remains left behind your step!

... The young man saw in his imagination the globe like a huge ship sailing by the immensity. Her
crew, poor humans, exterminating centuries had on the cover. Did not even know what was under
her feet, deep ship. Occupy the largest area to sunlight was the desire of each group. Men taken
by these bodies pushed over to extermination, to climb the last bridge the helm, giving the
ship a certain course. And all these ambitions they felt by command knew all the same ... Nothing!
None of them could say with certainty what beyond the horizon was visible, nor where they ran the
ship. The silent hostility mystery to all around them, his life was fragile, needed constant
care to keep; and in spite of this, the crew, for centuries, had not had a moment agreement,
common good, clear reason. Periodically, one half of it clashed with the other half, was killed
by slave on the cover shifting, floating over the abyss; struggled to throw one another off the
ship, in the wake of the ship was covered with corpses. And the crowd in complete dementia still
murky Sophists emerged to declare that was perfect, so everyone should continue forever, and
it was a bad dream wish The crew was mirasen as brothers who follow a common destiny and look around
them the wiles of a mystery aggressive ... Ah, human misery!

In July he was away from his reflections by the childish joy that showed some nursing. Were Muslims,
handles Algeria and Morocco. Were in Lourdes as they could be elsewhere, only attentive to
the gifts of civil people, who followed with patriotic tenderness. They all looked with indifference
the basilica inhabited by "white lady." His only concern was to ask for cigarettes and sweets.

To be entertained by the dominant race of their countries, were proud,
daring to However, like unruly children.

His greatest pleasure was that the ladies should give them the hand. Blessed war that allowed them to
approach and touch these white women, perfumed and smiling as they appear in dreams females
paradise reserved for the blessed! "Madama ... Madama ", sighed, towns at the same time her eyes flare
cartridges. And not content with his hand, his claws dark ventured along the arm while ladies
laughed at this worship trembling.

Other advanced through the crowd offering his right hand to all women. "Let us touch his hand."
And they walked away satisfied after receiving the grip.

Desnoyers long roamed the area around the basilica. Under the trees trucks were in rows occupied
by the wounded. Officers and soldiers remained long hours in the blue shadow spent watching other
comrades who could make use of their legs. The holy cave glowed with hundreds of candles flaring.
The crowd devout, kneeling outdoors, fixed his eyes pleading in the sacred stones, while his
thoughts flew away, to the battlefields, with confidence in the divinity accompanies all uneasiness.
Mass kneeling soldiers emerged with bandages on his head, The kepi
in one hand and tearful eyes.

For the double staircase ascending and descending the basilica women dressed in white, a tremor
of play that gave by far the appearance of doves fluttering. Were nurses, Ladies of Charity
guiding the footsteps of the wounded. Marguerite Desnoyers thought he recognized in each of them.
But the disillusionment that followed these discoveries to him doubt the success of your trip.
Neither was in Lourdes. Never be in this enlarged France disproportionately by the war, which
had become each stock in a hospital.

In the afternoon, his findings were no better success. The employees listened to their questions
vaguely: it could come back later. They were concerned by the announcement of a new train health.
Continued the great battle near Paris. Accommodations had to improvise the new batch of shredded
meat.

Desnoyers returned to the field near the grotto. His walk was to pass the time. Pau thought back to
that night, nothing was left to do in Lourdes. "Where would lead then your research? ...

Suddenly he felt a shiver along his back: the same indefinable feeling
warned that her presence as they gathered in a garden in Paris.

Margarita was to appear suddenly as before, but he certainly knew where it came from, as if
it emerges from the earth or descended from the clouds.

After thinking about this he smiled bitterly. Lies of desire! Illusions! ... To turn head recognized
the falsehood of their hope. No one followed his steps: he was the only marching through the
center of the avenue. Rested on a bench officer immediately blindfolded. Next to him, with the
clear whiteness of the Guardian Angels, was a nurse.

Poor blind! ... Desnoyers was going to go ahead, but a flick of the woman in target, a visible
desire to pass unnoticed, to hide his face turning his eyes towards plants, attracted his attention.
Slow to recognize. Two curls leaning on the edge of touch hair made him guess the hidden, the white-clad
feet were indications to reconstitute the body somewhat disfigured by a uniform without coquetry.
The face was pale, grave. Nothing remained to him of old cosmetics, giving him a childish beauty
wrist. His eyes seemed to reflect what exists in new forms in the bottom of a halo fatigue
dark ... Margarita!

They looked a long time, mesmerized by surprise. She was concerned to see that Desnoyers one
step ahead. No. .. no. His eyes, his hands, his whole body seemed to protest, repel their
advance, lock in immobility. Fear it approaches the march was to him. Said a few words to the military,
which continued in the receiving bank on the bandage his face a ray
of sunshine that seemed not to feel.

Then he got up, going to meet July and continued, indicating with a gesture that is located
further away, where the wounded would not listen.

Stopped its passage in a side path. From there I could see the blind man in their custody. They
were still face to face. Desnoyers meant many things, many! but hesitated not knowing how
words take their complaints, their pleas, their praise. Above this avalanche of thoughts emerged
one, fatal, dominant and angry.

- Who is this man?

...

The rancorous tone, the harsh voice that spoke these words, he was surprised, as if they came
another mouth.

The nurse looked at him with limpid eyes, enlarged, serene, eyes that seemed free forever the contractions
of surprise and fear.

The answer slipped with that look very clean.

- It Laurier ... It is my husband.

Laurier! ... July's eyes examined in doubt long before convincing the military. Laurier This
official blind motionless on the bench as a symbol of heroic pain! ... Was aviejado with tanned
complexion and a bronze color streaked converging cracks like spokes around all openings in
his face. The hair began to whiten in temples and beard covering his cheeks now. He had lived twenty
years in a month ... At the same time looked younger, with a vigorous youth radiated inside
with the force of a soul that has suffered the most violent emotions and can no longer meet
the fear, strong and serene satisfaction of accomplishment.

Felt while watching him admiration and jealousy. He was ashamed to realize the distaste he felt
for this man in full disgrace and I could not see around him. His hatred was cowardly, but
he insisted, as if he had awakened inside another soul, a second personality that caused her fear.
I remembered the eyes of Margarita to move away from the injured for a while! ... He had not looked
so ever. He knew all love the gradations of his eyelids, but his eyes the wounded was something
different, something that he had not seen before.

He spoke to the fury of a lover who discovers an infidelity.

- And
so you left without warning, without a word!

... You abandoned me to come in search it ... Di, why did you come?

Why are you here? ...

She did not flinch at his tone angry and hostile stares.

- I came because this was my duty.

Then he spoke as a mother who takes a break from surprise to irascible child advise sanity.
He explained his actions.

Had received the news of the wound Laurier when she and her mother were preparing to leave
Paris. He did not hesitate a moment: the obligation was run alongside this man. He had thought
long and hard in recent weeks. War had made him reflect on the value of life. His eyes looked for
new horizons; our destiny is not in the selfish pleasure and satisfaction: pain and we must
slaughter.

I wanted to work for their country, pay some joint pain, serve as the other women, and being
willing to give all their care to strangers, was not natural preferring this man who had caused
so much damage?

... His memory was still living in the moment they saw him arrive at the station all alone among
the many that had the consolation of loving arms to go looking for death. His shame was even more
intense hearing of his misfortune. A shell had exploded near him,
killing those around him.

Of his several wounds, was the only serious face.

He had lost one eye completely; the other doctors kept him without vision, hoping to save
it. But she doubted it was almost Laurier surely be blind.

Margaret's voice trembled as he said this, as if to mourn, but his
eyes remained dry.

They felt the irresistible urge to tears.

The cry was now superfluous, like many things in times of peace. They had seen his eyes so much
in a few days! ...

- I love him! - Said in July. 

She had treated
you so far, for fear of being heard and for maintaining distance,
as if speaking with a friend. But the sadness of her lover ended his
coldness.

- No, I love thee ... I'll love you forever.

The simplicity
of this and said his sudden familiarity reassure Desnoyers.

- What
about the other? - Asked anxiously.

Upon hearing his reply felt something
had passed before the sun, watching momentarily light. Mr. Medlin accompanied him to Southampton,
and the journey was a very lively one.

"Goodbye, Bob," the clerk said, as they shook hands on the deck of the Antelope. "You will
be a man, when I see you again--that is, if you don't come home, for a bit, before going to
the people at Cadiz and Oporto. You will be coming into the firm, then; and will be Mr. Robert,
always."

"Not if we go out fishing expeditions together," Bob said, and laughed.

"Ah! Well, perhaps that will be an exception.

"Well, goodbye; a pleasant voyage to you, and don't get into more scrapes than you can help."

"Oh, I am growing out of that, Mr. Medlin!"

"Not you, Bob. They may be different sorts of scrapes, in the future; but scrapes there will
be, or I am a Dutchman."

"Well, youngster, are you a good sailor?" the captain asked; as the Antelope, with all sail
set, ran down Southampton water.

"I hope I am, captain, but I don't know, yet. I have gone out sailing in boats at Plymouth
several times, in rough weather, and have never felt a bit ill; but I don't know how it will
be, in a ship like this."

"If you can sail in rough water in a boat, without feeling ill, you ought to be all right here,
lad. She is an easy craft, as well as a fast one; and makes good weather of it, in anything
short of a gale.

"There is eight bells striking--that means eight o'clock, and breakfast. You had better lay
in as good a store as you can. We shall be outside the Needles, if the wind holds, by dinnertime;
and you may not feel so ready for it, then."

The second mate breakfasted in the cabin with the captain and Bob, the first mate remaining
on deck. The second mate was a young man of three or four and twenty, a cousin of the captain.
He was a frank, pleasant-faced young sailor, and Bob felt that he should like him.

"How many days do you expect to be in getting to Gibraltar, captain?"

"About ten, if we have luck; twenty if we haven't. There is never any saying."

"How many men do you carry?"

"Twenty-eight seamen, the cook, the steward, two mates, and myself; and there are three boys.
Thirty-six all told."

"I see you have eight guns, besides the pivot gun."

"Yes. We have plenty of hands for working them, if we only have to fight one side at once;
but we shouldn't be very strong handed, if we had to work both broadsides. There are four sixteen
pounders, four twelves, and the pivot; so that gives three men to a gun, besides officers and
idlers. Three men is enough for the twelves, but it makes rather slow work with the sixteens.
However, we may hope that we sha'n't have to work both broadsides at once.

"We carry a letter of marque so that, in case of our having the luck to fall in with a French
trader, we can bring her in. But that is not our business. We are peaceful traders, and don't
want to show our teeth, unless we are interfered with."

To Bob's great satisfaction, he found that he was able to eat his dinner with unimpaired appetite;
although the Antelope was clear of the island, and was bowing deeply to a lively sea. The first
mate--a powerful looking man of forty, who had lost one eye, and whose face was deeply seamed
by an explosion of powder in an engagement with a French privateer--came down to the meal,
while the second mate took the duty on deck. Bob found some difficulty in keeping his dish
before him, for the Antelope was lying well over, with a northerly wind abeam.

"She is travelling well, Probert," the captain said. "We have got her in capital trim, this
time. Last time we were too light, and could not stand up to our sails.

"If this wind holds, we shall make a fast run of it. We will keep her well inshore, until we
get down to the Scillys; and then stretch across the bay. The nearer we keep to the coast,
the less fear there is of our running against one of those French privateers."

The wind held steady, and Bob enjoyed the voyage immensely, as the brig sailed along the coast.
After passing Portland Bill they lost sight of land until, after eight hours' run, a bold headland
appeared on the weather beam.

"That is the Start," the captain said. "When I get abeam of it we shall take our bearings,
and then shape our course across the bay. If this wind does but hold, we shall make quick work
of it."

Presently the tiller was put up and, as the brig's head paid off, the yards were braced square;
and she ran rapidly along towards the southwest, with the wind nearly dead aft. The next morning
when Bob went on deck he found that the wind had dropped, and the brig was scarcely moving
through the water.

"This is a change, Mr. Probert," he said to the first mate, who was in charge of the deck.

"Yes, and not a pleasant one," the officer replied. "I don't like the look of the sky, either.
I have just sent down to the captain, to ask him to step on deck."

Bob looked round. The sky was no longer bright and clear. The war was a fact, and after this assurance, were anxious
not to acquire new news. Staying at the coffee they found intolerable. In the atmosphere hot and smoky,
consumers were singing and shouting and waving small flags. All past and present anthems were sung
in chorus, accompanied by cups and saucers. The audience, somewhat cosmopolitan magazine European
nations to greet with roars of enthusiasm. Absolutely all, were going to be next to France. "Viva!
... Viva! "An old couple occupied a table next to two friends. Were renters, orderly and mediocre
life, you may not remember in his whole life had been awake at such hours. Carried away by enthusiasm,
were down the boulevard to "see the war more closely. " Foreign language employing the neighbors gave
her husband a high idea of its importance.

- Do you think that England will march with us?

...

Argensola knew as much as him, but replied with authority: "Surely it is actually decided." The old
man stood up: "Long live England!" And caressed by the admiring eyes of his wife, began to sing a patriotic
song forgotten, marking the chorus arm movements, very few reached
to continue.

The two friends had to take him on foot to return to his home.

They found a vehicle I would like to receive: all went in the opposite direction to the stations.
Both were moody, but Argensola could not march in silence.

"Ah, women!" Desnoyers knew his honest relationships from a few months earlier a midinette
the Rue Taitbout. Hiking on Sunday near Paris, several going to the movies, comments on the sublime
of the last novel published in the folletón of a popular newspaper, kissing them farewell,
when she took the evening the Bois Colombes train sleeping at the family home: this was it. But had Argensola
malignantly over time, it ripens more acidic strengths. That afternoon they had taken the appetizer
with a French friend who was leaving the next morning to join his regiment. The girl had seen
a few times with him, but he deserves special attention, but now admired him suddenly, as if it were
another. Had resigned to return to the house tonight their parents wanted to see how a war starts.
Ate the three together, and all the attention it was for he was leaving. To be offended with
sudden shame because he wanted Argensola exercise the right of priority
seeking his hand under the table.

Meanwhile, almost collapsed her head on the shoulder of the future hero, wrapped in admiring
glances.

- And are gone! ... They have gone together! - Said bitterly -. I had to abandon not to prolong
my sad situation. Having worked so hard ... for another!

He paused, and changing the course of his ideas, he added:

- Recognize, however, that his conduct is beautiful. How generous of women when believe the time
to offer!

... Her father inspires great fear for their anger, and without But stay for a night away
from home with one hardly knows whom and who did not think By mid-afternoon ... The nation
feels gratitude for those who are going to expose them, and she the little girl, want to do something
also for those destined to death, give them a little happiness in the last minute ... and gives
the best we have, so you can not ever recover. I've done a bad role ... Laugh at me, but admits
that this is beautiful.

Desnoyers laughed, indeed, the misfortune of his friend, notwithstanding that he also suffered major
setbacks, kept secret. He had not seen him after Marguerite the first interview. He had only
heard from her for several letters ... War Damn! What condition for happy people! Margaret's
mother was sick. He thought of his son, who was an officer and was beginning the first day
of mobilization. She was also concerned by his brother and considered inappropriate to go to
study at home while the mother moaned. When was going to end this situation? ...

It was also concerned that check for four hundred thousand francs brought from America. The day
before payment had been excused at the Bank for lack of notice. Then stated that they notice,
but neither gave the money. On that afternoon, when credit institutions were already closed,
the government had issued a decree establishing the moratorium to
general bankruptcy to avoid a result of financial panic.

When would you pay? ... Maybe when the war ended he had not yet begun, perhaps ever. He had
no other cash scarce two thousand francs he had left the trip. All his friends were in a distressing
situation, deprived of receiving the amounts kept in Banks. Those who had any money were obliged
to undertake a pilgrimage from store to store or queue forming at the door of the banks to
change a ticket.

Ah, war! The stupid war!

In the middle of the Champs Elysees saw a man with wide-brimmed hat, marching in front of them
slowly and talking to himself.

Argensola recognized him as he passed to a lamppost: "The friend Tchernoff." The Russian, returning
the greeting, let out the bottom of his beard a faint smell of wine. No invitation arranged his
passage to them, following them into Arc de Triomphe.

July had only crossed the silent greetings with friends to find you
Argensola the porch of the house.

But sorrow softens the mood and does look like a cool shade the friendship of the poor. Tchernoff,
meanwhile, looked as if he knew Desnoyers lifetime.

He had interrupted his monologue, heard only the masses of black vegetation,
banks lonely blue shadow red pierced by the tremor of the lanterns,
the summer night with its dome and sidereal blows hot flashes.

Took a few steps without speaking, as a a courtesy to the passengers,
then resumed his arguments, taking them where he had abandoned, without
explanation, as if march alone.

And at this hour --... cheers as well as the people here will believe in good faith going to
defend their homeland caused, want to die for their families and homes threatened anyone.

- Who are those, Tchernoff? - Asked Argensola. Russian looked at him, as if strange your question.

-
They - said laconically.

They both understood ... Them! There could be others.

- I have lived ten years in Germany - continued, giving more access to his words to be heard -. I
went daily correspondent in Berlin, and I know these people. Passing crowd filled the boulevard, I
saw with what happens beyond imagination at this hour. Also singing and waving flags roar of
enthusiasm. Are equal to each other externally, but what a difference,
inside!

... Last night on the boulevard, he persecuted people a vociferous shouting: "A Berlin!" is
a cry of bad memories and bad taste.

France does not want conquests His only desire is to be respected, to live in peace without humiliation
or uneasiness. This night, two to go mobilized said: "When we get in Germany they will assess the
Republic ... "The Republic is not a perfect thing, my friends, but it represents something
better to live under an irresponsible monarch by the grace of God. If nothing else, is peaceful
and no personal ambitions that disturb life. And I have moved by the feeling generous of these
two workers, instead of thinking about the extermination of their enemies, they want correct them,
giving them what they consider best.

Tchernoff paused a few moments to smile wryly at the sight that presented
itself his imagination.

- In Berlin, the masses express their enthusiasm
is high, as befits a superior people.

The Underdogs, who are comforted by their humiliation with a gross
materialism, shouting to those hours: "A Paris!

Let them drink free champagne!

"The bourgeoisie pietistic capable of doing anything reach a new honor, and the aristocracy who has
given the world the biggest scandals of recent years, also shouted
"To Paris!"

Paris is the Babylon of sin, city Moulin Rouge and the restaurants of Montmartre, the only places
they know ... And my comrades of Social-Democracy also shout, but they have been taught to another
song: "In Moscow! A Petersburg! We must crush the Russian tyranny, danger of civilization!
"The Kaiser driving the tyranny of another country as a scarecrow for his people ... What a
laugh!

And the laughter of Russian rang in the silence of the night like
a rattle.

- We are more civilized than the Germans - said when he
stopped laughing.

Desnoyers, who listened with interest, made a surprise move and said: "This Tchernoff has drunk something.
"

- Civilization - continued - is not only a major industry in many boats, armies and numerous
universities that teach only science. That is a material civilization. Another top that lifts
the soul and does not allow human dignity suffer without protest continuous humiliation. A
Swiss citizen who lives in his chalet, considering equal to the other men in his country is
more civilized than the Herr Professor has to give way to a lieutenant or the rich in Hamburg
bends like a lackey to which von particle holds.

Here the Spanish nodded, as though divining what was going to add Tchernoff.

- The Russians suffered a great tyranny. I know something about this. I know the hunger and
cold of dungeons have lived in Siberia ... But compared to our tyranny
has always existed a protest revolutionary.

A portion of the nation's half barbaric, but the rest has a mind higher, a high moral spirit
that makes you face dangers and sacrifices for freedom and the truth ... And Germany? Who has
ever objected to it, to defend rights human? What revolutions have been known in Prussia, land
of great tyrants? Founder militarism, Frederick William, when he got tired of beating his wife
and spitting in the course of their children, out into the street club in hand to hit to the
subjects that did not run to time. His son Frederick the Great declared that he died of governing
a people bored slaves. In two centuries of Prussian history, one revolution: the barricades
of 1848 Berlin bad copy of the revolution in Paris, and to no avail. Bismarck pressed hand to crush
the last attempts to protest, if it really existed. And when his friends threatened a revolution,
the ferocious Junker put her hands to the flanks, launching the most insolent laughter. A revolution
in Prussia! ... No one like him known to his people.

Tchernoff was not patriotic. Many times I had heard Argensola speak against his country. But
was indignant when considering the contempt with which the Germanic pride was the Russian people.
Where was, in the last forty years of imperial grandeur, intellectual
hegemony boasted that the Germans?

... Excellent pawns of science and tenacious scholars view short, confined each in his specialty,
lab Benedictines, who worked sometimes a long and successful through huge mistakes given as truths
be yours: that was all. And next to such patient diligence and worthy of respect, what of cheaters!
What big names exploited as a sample of store! Many scholars sanatorium stuck to hotel! ... Herr
Professor discovered a cure of tuberculosis, and consumptive continued to die as before. Another
sign with a figure the winning choice of the most shameful of diseases and genital fever was
sweeping the world. Y all these errors accounted for considerable fortunes, each resulted
in saving panacea to the establishment of an industrial society, selling products at great prices,
as if the pain is a privilege of the rich. How far from the bluff Pasteur and other wise inferior
peoples, who fought the world his secrets to paying no monopolies!

- German science - continued Tchernoff - has given much to humanity, I admit, but science of other nations
has given a lot alike. Only crazy people can be proud imagine that he is everything to civilization and
the others are nothing ... Apart from scholars specialists, what genius has been in our time that Germany
believes that universal? Wagner is the ultimate romantic, closes an era and the past. Nietzsche was
hard to demonstrate his Polish origin and abhorred of Germany, which, he said, of bourgeois
pedants.

Your Slavism was so pronounced that even prophesied the crushing of the Germans by Slavs ...
And there are no more. We savages, have given the world in recent performers times morally
admirable greatness. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky are universal. What names can be placed in front of
them Wilhelm II's Germany? ... His country was the homeland of music, but this Russian musicians are
more original than the followers the Wagnerian, who take refuge in the exasperation of the orchestra
to hide their mediocrity ... The German people had geniuses in their time of grief, when not
yet born Pangerman pride, when there was the Empire.

Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, were subjects of small principalities. Were influenced by other countries,
contributed to world civilization, as citizens the world, not occur to the Germanic world should
be paying attention to because their works.

Tsarism had committed atrocities. Tchernoff knew from experience and did not need Germans come
to tell. But all the educated classes of Russia were enemies from tyranny and stood against it.
Where were the intellectuals enemies in Germany Prussian Czarism? Callahan flattery or burst into God's anointed,
musician and comedian as Nero, a lively intelligence and superficial, whereas, touch everything,
thought I knew everything. Eager to reach a scenic position in history had finally afflict the world
with the greatest of calamities.

- Why should it be Russian tyranny that weighs upon my country? The worst czars were imitators of Prussia.
In our times, each time the Polish or Russian people have tried to claim their rights, the
reactionaries used the Kaiser as a threat, saying it would to his aid. One half of the Russian
aristocracy is German, German generals more have distinguished stabbing the people, German officials
argue and advise tyranny German officers who are responsible for killings punish workers' strikes and
rebellion of the peoples annexed. The Slavic reactionary is brutal, but it has the sentimentality
of a race in which many princes are nihilists. Whip raised easily but then repents and cries
sometimes. I've seen them kill Russian officers not to go against
the people or by remorse for having executed massacres.

The German service Czarism no qualms or regrets his conduct kills coldly, methodically detailed
and accurate, as everything runs.

The Russian is a barbarian, paste and repents, the civilized German
shoots without hesitation.

Our Tsar, in a humanitarian dream Slavic stroked utopia generous universal peace, organizing
conferences in The Hague.

The Kaiser of culture has worked for years and years in the assembly and body fatness destructive
as ever was known to crush Europe. The Russian is a humble Christian, egalitarian, democratic,
thirsty for justice, the German boasts of Christianity, but is an idolater as the Germans of
other centuries. His religion loves the blood and maintains the caste, their religion is true
Odin, but now the god of the massacre has been renamed and is called the State.

Tchernoff He paused, perhaps to better appreciate the strangeness of his companions, and then
said with simplicity:

- I am a Christian.

Argensola, who knew the ideas and the history of Russia, made a gesture of astonishment. July insisted
on his suspicions: "Definitely, this Tchernoff drunk."

- It's true - he continued - that I care little about God and not believe in dogmas, but my soul is
Christian like all revolutionaries. The philosophy of modern democracy is a secular Christianity.
Socialists love the poor, the needy, the weak.

Defend their right to life and welfare, as well as the great exalted religion which were at
all unhappy to a brother. We demand respect for the poor on behalf of justice, the others ask
in the name of piety. This only divides us. But a and other men seek to agree to a better life
that the strong sacrifice for the weak, the powerful and the humble and the world is governed
by the fraternity, seeking the greatest possible equality.

The Slavic summarized the history of human aspirations. Greek thought had welfare on earth, but
only for a few, for the citizens of their small democracies, for free men, leaving behind
his misery slaves and barbarians which constituted the majority.

Christianity, the religion of humble, had recognized them all beings the right to happiness,
but this happiness was placed in the sky, away from this world "valley
of tears."

The revolution and its socialist heirs put happiness in the immediate realities of the land, like
the ancients, and made partakers of it to all men, as well as Christians.

- Where is the Christianity of the German present? ... There are more Christian spirit in the
secular socialism of the French Republic, defender of the weak, that religiosity the conservative
Junkers.

Germany has made a god in his likeness, and when you believe worship, is its own image as
he loves. The German God is a reflection of the German State that views war as the primary
function of a people and the noblest of occupations. Other Christian peoples, when they have
to fight, feel the contradiction between their conduct and the Gospel, and excuse themselves saying
the cruel necessity of defending themselves. Germany declares that the war is pleasing to God.
I know German sermons proving that Jesus was a supporter of militarism.

Germanic pride, the belief that race is destined to dominate providentially the world could agree to
Protestants, Catholics and Jews.

- Over their differences of dogma is the God of the State, who is German, the God warrior to which
you may call William at this hour "my worthy partner." Tended Religions always at the universal.
Its purpose is to bring men into relationship with God and support the relations between all
men.

Prussia has retrograded to barbarism created for use personal one second Lord, a god hostile
to the majority of mankind, which their grievances and ambitions of the German people.

Then Tchernoff explained his own way the creation of the Germanic God, ambitious, cruel, vindictive.
The Germans were Christians from the previous day. His six-dating Christianity nothing centuries,
while the other peoples of Europe was ten, fifteen, eighteen centuries. When they were done
and the Crusades, the Prussians were still living in paganism. The pride of race, to push them
to war, was to revive the dead gods. A Like the old Germanic god, who was a warlord, the God of
the Gospel Germans saw adorned with spear and shield.

- Christianity
in Berlin wears a helmet and riding boots.

God is mobilized at this time as well as Otto, Fritz and Franz, to punish the enemies of the
chosen people. Nothing matter who ordered: "Do not kill" and tell your child on earth: "Blessed the
peacemakers. "Christianity, according to the German priests of all denominations, only may influence
the individual improvement of men and should not interfere in the life State. The God of the
Prussian state is the 'old German God, "an heir to the fierce Germanic mythology, an amalgam
of the gods hungry for war.

In the silence of the avenue, Russian red figures evoked the ruthless
gods.

Iban to wake up that night to feel loved in his ears the clash of arms and on his nose the acrid scent
of blood. Thor, the god of brutal small head, stretched his biceps, wielding the hammer that
smashes cities. Wotan sharpened his spear, which is the lightning for iron and shoe thunder.
Odin, the one eye, yawned at the top of gluttony the mountain, waiting for the dead warriors would pile
up around his throne. The Valkyrie disheveled, sweaty and smelling
virgins colt began to gallop from cloud cloud whipping men with howls,
to take the bodies, bent like saddlebags Upon the back of his flying
hacks.

- The Germanic religion - continued Russian - is the negation
of Christianity. For her, men are equal before God. This only appreciate
the strong, and supports them with its influence to dare all things.
Those born weak must submit or disappear. Peoples are not equal: they
are divided into villages and towns lower drivers whose destination
is being shredded and treated by them. God wills it. And it is useless
to say great people that driver is Germany.

Argensola interrupted.
German pride was not based solely on their God also appealed to science.

-
I know that - "the Russian said without letting it -: determinism,
inequality, selection, the struggle for life ... The Germans, so proud
of their worth, built on land foreign intellectual monuments, borrow
overseas foundation material when making new work. A Frenchman and
an Englishman, Gobineau and Chamberlain, have given arguments to defend
the superiority of their race. So, although I can't say I am absolutely uncomfortable, I shall be
certainly glad when we are back again on the regular track of our own line of traffic for the
Straits or Portugal. There are English cruisers on that line, and privateers on the lookout
for the French, so that the sound of guns might bring something up to our assistance; but there
is not much chance of meeting with a friendly craft, here--unless it has, like ourselves, been
blown out of its course."

A lookout had already been placed aloft. Several sails were seen in the distance, in the course
of the afternoon, but nothing that excited suspicion. The wind continued light and, although
the brig had every sail set, she was not making more than five and a half knots an hour through
the water. In the evening the wind dropped still more and, by nine o'clock, the brig had scarcely
steerage way.

"It is enough to put a saint out of temper," the captain said, as he came down into the cabin,
and mixed himself a glass of grog before turning in. "If the wind had held, we should have
been pretty nearly off Finisterre, by morning. As it is, we haven't made more than forty knots
since we took the observation, at noon."

Bob woke once in the night; and knew, by the rippling sound of water, and by the slight inclination
of his berth, that the breeze had sprung up again. When he woke again the sun was shining brightly,
and he got up and dressed leisurely; but as he went into the cabin he heard some orders given,
in a sharp tone, by the captain on deck, and quickened his pace up the companion, to see what
was going on.

"Good morning, Mr. Lockett!" he said to the second mate, who was standing close by, looking
up at the sails.

"Good morning, Master Repton!" he replied, somewhat more shortly than usual.

"There is a nice breeze this morning," Bob went on. "We seem going on at a good rate."

"I wish she were going twice as fast," the mate said. "There is a gentleman over there who
seems anxious to have a talk with us, and we don't want to make his acquaintance."

Bob looked round and saw, over the quarter, a large lugger some three miles away.

"What vessel is that?" he asked.

"That is a French privateer--at least, there is very little doubt about it. We must have passed
each other in the dark for, when we first made him out, he was about four miles away, sailing
northeast. He apparently sighted us, just as we made him out; and hauled his wind, at once.
He has gained about a mile on us, in the last two hours. We have changed our course; and are
sailing, as you see, northwest, so as to bring the wind on our quarter; and I don't think that
fellow has come up much, since. Still, he does come up. We feel the loss of our sail, now."

It seemed to Bob, looking up, that there was already an immense amount of canvas on the brig.
Stunsails had been set on her, and she was running very fast through the water.

"We seem to have more canvas set than that vessel behind us," he said.

"Yes, we have more, but those luggers sail like witches. They are splendid boats, but they
want very big crews to work them. That is the reason why you scarcely ever see them, with us,
except as fishing craft, or something of that sort. I daresay that lugger has a hundred men
on board--eighty, anyhow--so it is no wonder we sometimes get the worst of it. They always
carry three hands to our two and, very often, two to our one. Of course we are really a trader,
though we do carry a letter of marque. If we were a regular privateer, we should carry twice
as many hands as we do."

Walking to the poop rail, Bob saw that the men were bringing up shot, and putting them in the
racks by the guns. The breech covers had been taken off. The first officer was overlooking
the work.

"Well, lad," Captain Lockett said, coming up to him, "you see that unlucky calm has got us
into a mess, after all and, unless the wind drops again, we are going to have to fight for it."

"Would the wind dropping help us, sir?"

"Yes, we have more canvas on her than the lugger carries and, if the breeze were lighter, should
steal away from her. As it is, she doesn't gain much; but she does gain and, in another two
or three hours, she will be sending a messenger to ask us to stop."

"And what will you do, captain?"

"We shall send another messenger back, to tell her to mind her own business. Then it will be
a question of good shooting. If we can knock out one of her masts, we shall get off; if we
can't, the chances are we shall see the inside of a French prison.

"If she once gets alongside, it is all up with us. She can carry us, by boarding; for she can
throw three times our strength of men on to our deck."

There was but little talking on board the brig. When the men had finished their preparations,
they stood waiting by the bulwarks; watching the vessel in chase of them, and occasionally
speaking together in low tones.

"You may as well pipe the hands to breakfast, Mr. Probert. I have told the cook to give them
an extra good meal. After that, I will say a few words to them.

"Now, Master Repton, we may as well have our meal. We mayn't get another good one, for some
time; but I still hope that we shall be able to cripple that fellow. I have great faith in
that long eighteen. The boatswain is an old man-o'-war's-man, and is a capital shot. I am a
pretty good one, myself and, as the sea is smooth, and we have a good steady platform to fire
from, I have good hope we shall cripple that fellow before he comes up to us."

There was more talking than usual, at breakfast. Captain Lockett and the second mate both laughed,
and joked, over the approaching fight. Mr. Probert was always a man of few words, and he said
but little, now.

"The sooner they come up, the better," he growled. "I hate this running away, especially when
you can't run fastest."

"The men will all do their best, I suppose, Probert? You have been down among them."

The first mate nodded.

"They don't want to see the inside of a prison, captain, no more than I do. They will stick
to the guns; but I fancy they know, well enough, it will be no use if it comes to boarding."

"No use at all, Probert. I quite agree with you, there. If she comes up alongside, we must
haul down the flag. It is of no use throwing away the men's lives, by fighting against such
odds as that. But we mustn't let her get up."

"That is it, sir. We have got to keep her off, if it can be done. We shall have to haul our
wind a little, when we begin, so as to get that eighteen to bear on her."

"Yes, we must do that," the captain said. "Then we will get the other four guns over on the
same side."

After breakfast was over, the captain went up and took his station at the poop rail. The men
had finished their breakfast and, on seeing that the captain was about to address them, moved aft.

"My lads," he said, "that Frenchman behind will be within range, in the course of another hour.
What we have got to do is to knock some of her spars out of her and, as she comes up slowly,
we shall have plenty of time to do it. I daresay she carries a good many more guns than we
do, but I do not suppose that they are heavier metal. If she got alongside of us, she would
be more than our match; but I don't propose to let her get alongside and, as I don't imagine
any of you wish to see the inside of a French prison, I know you will all do your best.

"Let there be no hurrying in your fire. Aim at her spars, and don't throw a shot away. The
chances are all in our favour; for we can fight all our guns, while she can fight only her
bow chasers--at any rate, until she bears up. She doesn't gain on us much now and, when she
comes to get a few shot holes in her sails, it will make the difference. I shall give ten guineas
to be divided among the men at the first gun that knocks away one of her spars; and five guineas,
besides, to the man who lays the gun."

The men gave a cheer.

"Get the guns all over to the port side. I shall haul her wind, a little, as soon as we are
within range."

By five bells, the lugger was within a mile and a half. The men were already clustered round
the pivot gun.

"Put her helm down, a little," the captain ordered. "That is enough.

"Now, boatswain, you are well within range. Let us see what you can do. Fire when you have
got her well on your sights."

A few seconds later there was a flash, and a roar. All eyes were directed on the lugger, which
the captain was watching through his glass. There was a shout from the men. The ball had passed
through the great foresail, a couple of feet from the mast.

"Very good," the captain said. "Give her a trifle more elevation, next time. If you can hit
the yard, it will be just as good as hitting the mast.

"Ah! There she goes!"

Two puffs of white smoke broke out from the lugger's bow. One shot struck the water nearly
abreast of the brig, at a distance of ten yards. The other fell short.

"Fourteens!" the captain said. "I thought she wouldn't have eighteens, so far forward."

Shot after shot was fired but, so far, no serious damage had been caused by them. The brig
had been hulled once, and two shots had passed through her sails.

The captain went, himself, to the pivot gun; and laid it carefully. Bob stood watching the
lugger intently, and gave a shout as he saw the foresail run rapidly down.

"It is only the slings cut," the second mate--who was standing by him--said. "They will have
it up again, in a minute. If the shot had been the least bit lower, it would have smashed the
yard."

The lugger came into the wind and, as she did so, eight guns flashed out from her side while,
almost at the same moment, the four broadside guns of the Antelope were, for the first time,
discharged. Bob felt horribly uncomfortable, for a moment, as the shot hummed overhead; cutting
one of the stunsail booms in two, and making five fresh holes in the sails.

"Take the men from the small guns, Joe, and get that sail in," the captain said. "Its loss
is of no consequence."

In half a minute, the lugger's foresail again rose; and she continued the chase, heading straight
for the brig.

"He doesn't like this game of long bowls, Probert," the captain said. "He intends to come up
to board, instead of trusting to his guns.

"Now, boatswain, you try again."

The brig was now sailing somewhat across the lugger's bows, so that her broadside guns--trained
as far as possible aft--could all play upon her; and a steady fire was kept up, to which she
only replied by her two bow chasers One of the men had been knocked down, and wounded, by a
splinter from the bulwark; but no serious damage had so far been inflicted, while the sails
of the lugger were spotted with shot holes.

Bob wished, heartily, that he had something to do; and would have been glad to have followed
the first mate's example--that officer having thrown off his coat, and taken the place of the
wounded man in working a gun--but he felt that he would only be in the way, did he try to assist.
Steadily the lugger came up, until she was little more than a quarter of a mile behind them.

"Now, lads," the captain shouted, "double shot the guns--this is your last chance. Lay your
guns carefully, and all fire together, when I give the word.

"Now, are you all ready? Fire!"

The five guns flashed out together, and the ten shot sped on their way. The splinters flew
from the lugger's foremast, in two places; but a cry of disappointment rose, as it was seen
that it was practically uninjured.

"Look, look!" the captain shouted. "Hurrah, lads!" and a cloud of white canvas fell over, to
leeward of the lugger.

Her two masts were nearly in line, and the shot that had narrowly missed the foremast, and
passed through the foresail, had struck the mainmast and brought it, and its sail, overboard.
The crew of the brig raised a general cheer. A minute before a French prison had stared them
in the face, and now they were free. The helm was instantly put up, and the brig bore straight
away from her pursuer.

"What do you say, Probert? Shall we turn the tables, now, and give her a pounding?"

"I should like to, sir, nothing better; but it would be dangerous work. Directly she gets free
of that hamper, she will be under command, and will be able to bring her broadside to play
on us; and if she had luck, and knocked away one of our spars, she would turn the tables upon
us. Besides, even if we made her strike her colours, we could never take her into port. Strong
handed as she is, we should not dare to send a prize crew on board."

"You are right, Probert--though it does seem a pity to let her go scot free, when we have got
her almost at our mercy."

"Not quite, sir. Look there."

The lugger had managed to bring her head sufficiently up into the wind for her broadside guns
to bear, and the shot came hurtling overhead. The yard of the main-topsail was cut in sunder,
and the peak halliard of the spanker severed, and the peak came down with a run. They could
hear a faint cheer come across the water from the lugger.

"Leave the guns, lads, and repair damages!" the captain shouted.

"Throw off the throat halliards of the spanker, get her down, and send a hand up to reef a
fresh rope through the blocks, Mr. Probert.

"Joe, take eight men with you, and stow away the topsail. Send the broken yard down.

"Carpenter, see if you have got a light spar that will do, instead of it. If not, get two small
ones, and lash them so as to make a splice of it."

In a minute the guns of the lugger spoke out again but, although a few ropes were cut away,
and some more holes made in the sails, no serious damage was inflicted and, before they were
again loaded, the spanker was rehoisted. The first thing he saw when leaving the flag was the flag Red
Cross still flying high in the castle. There was no stretchers below trees. On the bridge found
several health and one of the doctors. The hospital had gone with all the wounded carried.
Nothing remained in the building under surveillance a section, the most serious, those who could
not move. The Valkyrie of Health had also disappeared.

The bearded man was among those who had stayed, and seeing Don Marcelo smiled away, disappearing immediately.
Moments later he reappeared with his hands full. Never his mind had been so generous. The old
man sensed a great need, but putting your hand in his pocket, the health held him back:

- Nein ... Nein.

What was this generosity? ... The German steadfastly declined. The huge mouth is dilated with
a friendly smile, his huge hands fell on the shoulders of Don Marcelo. Like a dog well, a humble
dog pet a passerby to take you with him. "Franz ... Franzosen. He knew not say more, but could
be glimpsed in his words the desire to understand he had always felt great sympathy for the French.
Something important was happening; moody air of those who remained
at the door of the castle, the sudden obsequiousness This rustic uniform,
gave to understand.

Beyond the building saw soldiers, many soldiers. An infantry battalion had spread Along the walls,
with their wagons and draft horses and riding. Soldiers managed peaks, opening loopholes in
the wall, cutting edge shaped battlements. Other knelt or sat next to the openings, taking off
the backpack to be more rid. In the distance sounded the barrel, and in the range of their blasts
clicks whiplash, a bubbling of frying oil, a mill grinding of coffee, incessant crackle rifles
and machine guns. The cool of the morning covered the men and things of a brightness moisture. Tufts
floating over fields of mist, giving lines near objects uncertain of the unreal. The sun was
a faint spot to go back behind the scenes of mist.

The trees wept for all the edges of their shells.

A clap of thunder rent the air, close and loud, as if burst near the castle. Desnoyers hesitated,
thinking he had been punched in the chest. The other men remained impassive the indifference of
habit. A cannon had just fired a few paces from him ... Only then realized that two batteries
were installed in their park. The pieces were domes hidden under branches, the gunners felled
trees to mask their guns a perfect disguise. He saw how they were summoning the past. With shovels
were an edge of land a foot around each one of them. This edge defending feet of servants, whose
bodies were protected by screens on both sides shielded Part. Then erected a log cabin and
branches, leaving visible only the deadly mouth cylinder.

Don Marcelo became accustomed gradually to the shooting, which appeared to create a vacuum within
his skull. Gnashed his teeth, clenched his fists at every blast, but remained motionless, no desire
to leave, dominated by the violence of the explosions, admiring the
serenity of these men who gave their orders straight and stirred cold
or as humble servants thundering beasts around.

All his ideas seemed to have blown up, blown by the first shot.

Your brain only live the present moment.

Eyes turned strongly to the red and white flag waving on the building.

"It is a betrayal - he thought - a disloyalty."

Far away, across the Marne, also threw the French guns.

It was evident work by small yellowish clouds floating in the air, columns smoke that arose in various
parts of the landscape, where German troops were hidden form a line that was lost in the infinite.
An atmosphere of protection and respect seemed to wrap the castle.

Dissolved the morning mists, the sun was finally shining and clean your disk, extending on the
ground the shadows of men and trees with a fantastic length. Emerged from the fog hills and
forests, fresh and dripping after morning ablutions. The valley remained entire exposed. Desnoyers
saw with surprise the river from the place he occupied. The barrel open during the night had
large windows in the woods that they had hidden. What surprised him most morning contemplating this
landscape, smiling and childish, it was not seeing anyone absolutely nobody. Thundering peaks
and trees, without showing a single person. Over a hundred thousand men should be lurking in space,
covering his eyes, and not one was visible. The roar deadly weapons to shake the air did not stop
it no optical fingerprint. There was no smoke that the explosion lifted the black spiral large
shells exploding in the ground. These columns arose from all sides. Encircled the castle as
a round of gigantic and black tops, but none were ordered out of
the daring run forward to touch the building.

Don Marcelo was watching the flag. "It a betrayal, "he repeated mentally. But while accepted
by selfishness, seeing it a defense of his property.

The battalion had finished installing wall along the riverfront. Soldiers kneeling, supported
their rifles in loopholes and battlements. They seemed satisfied with this rest after a night
of fighting in retreat. All eyes seemed to be asleep open. Little by little dropped on the
heels, or seeking the support of the backpack. Sounded snoring in a short space of silence
that left the artillery. The officers, standing behind them, examining the landscape with
their glasses or spoke forming campaign groups. Some appeared disheartened, others furious
at the setback had been doing from the previous day, the most, remained peaceful, with the
passivity of obedience. The front line was immense: who could guess the end? ... They were removed
and colleagues elsewhere would be moving forward with a decisive
move.

Until the last instant no soldier knows the fate of battles. What hurt them was seen to all increasingly
far from Paris.

Don Marcelo saw a circle of glass shine.

It was a monocle fixed upon him with aggressive insistence.

A lieutenant thin, tight-waisted, which retained the same look of officers he had seen in Berlin, a
real junker, was a few steps, sword in hand, behind of his men, as a pastor, grim and angry.

- What are you doing here? - Said roughly.

He explained that he owned the castle. "Honestly?" Kept asking the lieutenant. "Yes, French ..."
The officer was hostile meditation, feeling the need to do something against this enemy. The
gestures and shouts of other officers pulled him to his reflections. Everyone looked to him
high, and the old are imitated.

From an hour before the air passed through dreadful roar enveloped in yellowish vapors, shreds of
cloud that seemed to carry inside a wheel turning frantic squeals. They were the heavy artillery
shells Germanic pulling several miles, sending his shot over the
castle.

Could not this be what the officers interested. Contracted his eyelids to see better, and finally,
near the edge of a cloud made out a mosquito species injured by the sun shining. In the brief
intervals of silence hobbled, faint and far, reports of his presence. The officers shook their
heads: "Franz." Desnoyers felt the same.

I could not imagine the two black crosses inside their wings.

Saw two rings with the thought tricolor, equal to the rounds that color cloaks flying butterflies.

Explained
the concern of the Germans. The French aircraft had been immobilized for a moment the castle, paying
no attention to the white bubbles exploding underneath and around him. In vain the cannon immediate
positions placed their shells. Turned rapidly away toward its starting
point.

"You should have seen it all - thought Desnoyers -. We have noticed: he knows what's here. "

He guessed that was going to quickly change the course of events. All that had happened to then in the
early hours of the morning was irrelevant compared to what would later. He was afraid, irresistible
fear of the unknown, while curious, anxiety, impatience is a danger
that threatens and just never arrive.

A loud explosion rang out of the park, but a short distance from the wall: something like to a giant hack
with an ax as big as his castle. Drinking flew through the air whole tree, multiple trunks
split in two, with hair black land of weeds, a stream of dust that obscured the sky. Some rocks
rolled down the wall. The Germans shrunk, but without visible emotion. They knew this, awaiting his
arrival, as inevitable after seeing the plane. The flag with the red cross could not deceive
the enemy gunners.

Don Marcelo had no time to recover from his surprise, a second blast closer the wall ... third
inside the park. He thought he had jumped suddenly to another world. He saw men and things through
a fantastic atmosphere raging, destroying cutting all the violence of its waves. Had remained motionless
with terror, and But not afraid. He had previously imagined fear in different ways. I felt
an emptiness in the stomach distressing. Repeatedly hesitated on his feet, as if someone pushes
him giving a blow to the chest to straighten immediately afterwards
with a new blow back.

An acid smell spread in the environment, making breathing difficult, making eyes up to the
sting of tears. In contrast, the noises ceased to bother him: no existed for him. The guess
on the air waves in the shock of things, in the whirlwind stooped to men, but did not affect the
interior. Had lost ability to hear: the full force of his senses focused on the eyes. Her eyes
seemed acquire multiple facets, such as certain insects. He saw what was happening in front of his
person, at his side, behind him. And witnessed amazing things, snapshots, as if all rules of
life had just undergone a capricious disorder.

An officer who was launched a few paces inexplicable flight. Began to rise, no lose their military
stiffness, with the helmet on his head, frowning, blond mustache and short, and color below
chest mustard, gloved hands that held a pair of binoculars and paper. But here ended their individuality.
The legs were gray spats left on the ground, lifeless, and empty bags, expelling the deflated
its red content. The trunk, the violent rise, the bottom fell out as a pitcher, releasing their contents
viscera. Further, some gunners who were lying right appeared suddenly and motionless, smeared with
purple.

The line of infantry was smashed on the floor. The men were contracted to be less visible next
to the loopholes by poking their guns.

Many had been placed the bag over the head or the back to defend them from the shell helmets.
If moved, was to fit best in the land, seeking dig your belly. Several they had changed their position
with a rapidity inexplicable. They were now lying on his back and seemed to sleep. One had even
opened the abdomen, showing between the rents meat loose fabric, blue and red, which rose and swelled
with bubbling expansion. Another had lost their legs. He also saw eyes wide with surprise and
pain, mouth round and black lips that seemed to shake with a howl.

But no shouting, at least he heard their cries.

Had lost track of time. Do not know if this immobility had several hours or one minute. The
only thing that bothered him was the trembling of the legs, which could sustain ... Something fell
behind him. Debris rained down. Turning his head he saw his château. Tower had just steal half.
The boards were scattered in tiny fragments, the blocks crumbled,
the stone box of a window was loose and kept in balance as a rack.

The old timbers of the cap began to burn like torches.

The sight of the instantaneous change of ownership was impressed more than the ravages by death.
He realized the horror of the blind and implacable forces that raged around him. Life concentrated
in his eyes spread, down to your feet ... And started running, not knowing where to go, feeling
the same need to hide those experiencing men chained by the discipline
required to flatten the ground, to envy the soft Invisibility of reptiles.

His

instinct pushed him to the pavilion, but in the middle of the avenue the other cut him off the
amazing mutations. An invisible hand had just started a half backwards the roof. An entire wall
is folded canvas, forming a cascade of bricks and dust.

Were exposed internal parts as well as theater decor, the kitchen where he had eaten, the top
floor with the bedroom, still kept his bed unmade. Poor women! ...

He stepped back, running towards the castle. He remembered the cave where he spent locked overnight.
And when he saw under the dark vault had it for the best rooms, praising the wisdom of its builders.

The
silence was returning underground hearing sensitivity. Heard by storm muffled by the distance
the bombardment of the Germans and the outbreak of the French shells. Came to his memory that
he had lavished praise the barrel of 75 without knowing more than by reference. And had witnessed
its effects. "Tira too well," he murmured. Soon time was about to destroy his castle was too much
perfection ... But soon repent of these lamentations of their selfishness. One idea is tenacious
as remorse had clung to his brain. It seemed that all that suffering was an expiation for
the lack committed in his youth. Had avoided serving his country, and was now involved the
horrors of war, with the humility of a passive and helpless, without
the satisfactions the soldier, who can fight back.

I was going to die, he was sure, with a death disgraceful, inglorious one, anonymously. The
debris from their property will serve as grave. And the certainty of death in the darkness like
a rodent that is clogged the holes in her den, began to make intolerable this shelter.

Remained above the storm. A clap of thunder seemed to burst upon his head, and then the crash
of a collapse. A new shell had fallen on the building. Heard roaring in agony, screaming, headlong
rush into the ceiling. Perhaps the shell, with its blind fury, was torn to many of the dying
who occupied the rooms.

He feared being buried in the shelter, and jumps up the ladder to
the underground.

Al go through the ground floor saw the sky through the broken roof. From the edges hung pieces
wood, wobbly bits of pavement, furniture arrested in the middle of its fall. Stepped debris
to pass through the hall, where there were rugs, tripped over broken and twisted iron, beds
fragments rained from the top of the building, believed to distinguish members convulsive among
the piles of rubble, heard distressing voices could not understand.

He ran with the same yearning for light and air that pushes the castaway to the cover from the
bowels of the ship ... He had spent more time than he imagined from who took refuge in the dark.
The sun was high. He saw more bodies in the garden tragic and grotesque attitudes. The wounded moaned
bent or remained on the ground leaning back against a tree, with a painful silence. Some had
opened the backpack to get his bag and took care health healing the tears in his flesh. The
infantry fired their guns incessantly now.

The number of shooters had increased. New groups of soldiers entered the park: one with his sergeant
at the front, others followed by an officer carrying a revolver against his chest, as if he would
guide to men. Infantry was expelled from their positions along the river, coming to reinforce
the second line of defense. The guns joined the tac-tac of the loom in motion snap the rifle.

Space
whistling, scratching incessantly by a swarm abejorreo invisible. Thousands of blowflies sticky
Desnoyers moved around without sees them. Crusts tree jumped, driven by hidden nails; rained
leaves, stirred the branches with balancing contradictory departed the paving stones, impelled
by a mysterious foot. All inanimate objects seemed to take a fantastic life. The zinc buckets
of soldiers, the metal parts of your computer, cubes of artillery, rattling alone as if they received
a hail impalpable.

He saw a gun lying with broken wheels and high, and many men who seemed to sleep, he saw soldiers
tended and folded the head without a cry, without a twitch, as if sleep instantly dominate.
Other howled crawling or walking with hands on belly and buttocks
touching the floor.

The old man felt a sharp sensation of heat. An explosive perfume drug stabbing mourn him and scratched
his throat. At the same time was cold, he felt his face frozen in an icy sweat.

Had to depart from the bridge.

Several wounded soldiers to spend with them into the building, notwithstanding that it fell
into ruins. Suddenly received a liquid spray head to foot, as if the earth opened, giving way
to a torrent. A shell had fallen into the pit, raising a huge column of water, blowing into fragments
tents sleeping in the mud breaking a part of the edges, turning white powder balustrade with vases
flowers.

Was launched to run with the blindness of terror, looking suddenly to a small circle of Crystal looked
at him coldly. It was the junker, the officer's monocle. Relapsed into their hands ... He pointed
to the end of his gun two blocks that were in walking distance. Should fill in the gap and
give drink to his men, suffocated by the sun. The imperious tone brooked no argument, but Don
Marcelo tried to resist.

Is serving as a servant to the Germans? ... His surprise was short. Received a blow from the
butt of the gun in the chest and while the other hand Lt. closed fell on his face. The old man
bent: he wanted mourn, I wanted to die. But neither wept nor life slipped away from his body before
this affront, as he wished ... Was seen with two buckets in their hands filling in the pit, then
going along the line of men, who left the gun to suck the liquid with panting eagerness beasts.

Caused
him no longer fear the stridency of invisible bodies. His wish was to die, I knew that was
bound to die. His sufferings were too: in the world there was no space for him. Had to go to breaches
in the wall by the explosion of shells. No remaining obstacles to
his vision for these breaks.

Fences and trees were modified or deleted with artillery fire. Distinguished at the foot of the
hill that was in his castle several columns of attack that had crossed the Marne. The assailants
were detained by the heavy fire from the Germans. Hopped by companies, lying in the shelter
after of the folds of the land to let the blast of death.

The old man was encouraged by a desperate resolution, and that he
would die, who killed him French bullet.

And walked upright, with his two buckets, lying to those men fired. Then, with sudden awe, stood
still, burying his head between his shoulders, thinking that the bullet that was a danger he could receive
less for the enemy. Was better Germans to be killed ... And he began to cherish the idea mentally
to pick up a weapon any of the dead, falling on the junker he had slapped.

For the third time I was filling buckets and looked back at the lieutenant, when it happened something
unlikely, absurd, something that reminded him of the fantastic cinema mutations. Suddenly disappeared
officer's head, two blood pumps jumped from his neck and the body collapsed like an empty sack.
At the same time a cyclone passed over the wall between it and the building, toppling trees,
dumping guns, taking people as if they were swirling leaves. He guessed that the death was blowing
in a new direction.

Until then I had come from the front, part of the river, breaking the enemy line bermed on
the wall. Now, with the suddenness of atmospheric change, coming from the back of the park. A
skillful movement of the assailants, the use of a lane, maybe a retreat the German line, had allowed
the French to drop their guns in a new position, flank beating the occupants of the castle.

It was fortunate for Don Marcelo slowing few minutes at the edge of the trench, sheltered by
the mass of the building. Dash battery went to hide along the avenue, sweeping the living, destroying
a second time to the dead, killing the horses, breaking the wheels parts, blowing a gun-carriage with
flames of a volcano, in which red and blue background black bodies leaping. He saw hundreds
of fallen men, saw horses running treading guts.

The harvest of death had not been for sheaves: whole field was smooth with sickle-one punch.
And if the batteries in front divined the disaster, stepped meanwhile the fire, sending a rain of
shells. Fell on all sides. Beyond the castle, at the end of the park, opened a crater in the woods
that vomited whole logs. The projectiles pulled from their graves
to the dead buried yesterday.

Those who had not kept throwing down the wall openings. Then they got up to precipitation. About arming
the bayonet, pale, her lips tightened and a brightness of madness in the eyes, others turned their
back, running toward the park exit, ignoring the cries of the officers and to the revolver
shots made against the fugitives.

All this happened with dizzying speed, as a nightmarish scene. Across the wall sounded like the
hum rising tide. He heard screaming, he thought he heard voices hoarse
and discordant singing the Marseillaise. The guns worked with speed,
as machines sewing. The attack was about to get stuck again by the
furious resistance. The Germans, mad with rage, threw and threw. In
a gap appeared red kepi, legs of the same color trying to pass on
the rubble. But the vision faded instantaneously under the spray guns.
The attackers should fall in heaps on the other side of the wall.

Desnoyers
did not know with certainty how the mutation was performed. Suddenly
he saw the red trousers within the park. Goods were being slung
down from the ships, and were swinging in the air, or run down to the cry of "Look below!"

"Mind how you go, Carrie," Captain O'Halloran said, "or you will be getting what brains you
have knocked out."

"If that is all the danger, Gerald," she laughed, "you are safe, anyhow.

"Now, Bob, do look out!" she broke off as, while glancing round, he tripped over a hawser and
fell. "Are you hurt?"

"Never mind him, Carrie--look out for yourself. A boy never gets hurt.

"Now, keep your eyes about you, Bob. You can come and look at all this, any day."

At last they got to the end of the Mole. Then they passed under an archway, with a massive
gate, at which stood a sentry; then they found themselves in a sort of yard, surrounded by
a high wall, on the top of which two cannon were pointed down upon them. Crossing the yard,
they passed through another gateway. The ground here rose sharply, and a hundred yards further
back stood another battery; completely commanding the Mole, and the defences through which
they had passed.

The ground here was comparatively level, rising gradually to the foot of the rock, which then
rose steeply up. A few houses were scattered about, surrounded by gardens. Hedges of cactus
lined the road. Parties of soldiers and sailors, natives with carts, and women in picturesque
costumes passed along. The vegetation on the low ground was abundant, and Bob looked with delight
at the semi-tropical foliage.

Turning to the right they followed the road, passed under an archway in a strong wall, and
were in the town, itself.

"We are not living in barracks," Carrie said. "Fortunately there was no room there, and we
draw lodging allowance, and have taken the upper portion of a Spanish house. It is much more
pleasant. Besides, if we had had to live in quarters, we should have had no room for you."

"The streets are steep," Bob said. "I can't make out how these little donkeys keep their feet
on the slippery stones, with those heavy loads.

"Oh! I say, there are two rum-looking chaps. What are they--Moors?"

"Yes. You will see lots of them here, Bob. They come across from Ceuta, and there are some
of them established here, as traders. What with the Moors, and Spaniards, and Jews, and the
sailors from the shipping, you can hear pretty nearly every European language spoken, in one
walk through the streets."

"Oh, I say, isn't this hot?" Bob exclaimed, mopping his face; "and isn't there a glare from
all these white walls, and houses! How much higher is it?"

"About another hundred yards, Bob. There, you see, we are getting beyond the streets now."

They had now reached a flat shoulder; and on this the houses were somewhat scattered, standing
in little inclosures, with hedges of cactus and geranium, and embowered in shrubs and flowers.

"This is our house," Carrie said, stopping before a rickety wooden gateway, hung upon two massive
posts of masonry. "You see, we have got a flight of steps outside, and we are quite cut off
from the people below."

They ascended the stairs. At the top there was a sort of wide porch, with a wooden roof; which
was completely covered with creepers, growing from two wooden tubs. Four or five plants, covered
with blossoms, stood on the low walls; and two or three chairs showed that the little terrace
was used as an open-air sitting room.

"In another hour, when the sun gets lower, Bob, we can come and sit here. From
there it was said the most discreet and courteous gentleman at that age did Italy that 'peace and
war was so marked, if fame is not ungrateful, always in the world publish his praise and clearly
show that nowadays few kings or lords large we have seen that greatness of mind in knowing
and all have not been lower under compared to him. " He had fought the Portuguese in Toro, to
the Muslims in Granada, Alpujarras in the Moorish rebels in Ostia to the fiercest of pirates, the
Turkish Kefalonia, and Italy to the French, disrupting their hosts, beating their kings and
most distinguished leaders and won for Spain the most beautiful of that peninsula. Had acquired
and lavished great wealth, had won a trophy of their victories over two hundred flags and two royal
standards, and had ensured that he celebrated and admired in all Spain, in Aragon and Castile.

Victim
and suspicion, and perhaps the envy of the King, retired disillusioned sick their domains of
Loja, devastated after seeing the strength of Montilla, who was his
crib and severely punished many of his relatives and friends.

Gonzalo tells that one day he visited his elderly cousin Dona Beatriz
Enriquez, who had and been a friend of the late Admiral D. Christopher
Columbus, who retained long in Spain despite the contempt of the Court.

Case

against Dante, as often cited, is not always painful, but tasty sweet memories of the happy
age of the young loves and triumphs and adventures that then achieved. Doña Beatriz in his old
age and isolation, she was comforted by seeing and talking to his
glorious mourner.

Was lively conversation that he had.

Doña Beatriz was expansive and just ended up being boastful. Proudly declared which was glorified
for having loved the Genoese adventurer, having discovered and recognized
all his worth and spirit have believed and hoped in the lofty mission
entrusted to him heaven, when they were still very few men who scorned
him.

- For me - he said - he stayed in Spain man sent from God.

In large part I should Spain the glory of having broken her the secret mysteries of the seas and
islands have discovered flourishing and extensive land, rich in pearls and gold, which still gets
as bulwark to prevent us from reaching Cipango, to Cathay and the empire of Prester John, where they
penetrate and The Portuguese, following opposite paths and navigating
to the regions where it was thought I had her closet the Aurora.

 We are very
lucky in getting the place. A regiment went home in the transport that brought us out. Gerald
knew some of the officers, and one of them had been staying here, and told Gerald of it; and
we took it at once. The other officers' wives are all quite jealous of me and, though some
of them have very nice quarters, it is admitted that, as far as the view goes, this is by far
the best. Besides, it is a great thing being out of the town, and it does not take Gerald more
than three or four minutes longer to get down to the barracks.

"But now, let us go downstairs. I am sure you must want something to eat, and we sha'n't have
supper for another three hours."

"I dined at twelve," Bob said, "just before we rounded the point, and I could certainly hold
on until supper time Still, I daresay I could eat something, now."

"Oh, it is only a snack! It is some stewed chicken and some fruit. That won't spoil your supper,
Bob?"

"You will be glad to hear, Bob," Captain O'Halloran said, as the lad was eating his meal, "that
I have secured the services of a Spanish professor for you. He is to begin next Monday."

Bob's face fell.

"I don't see that there was need for such a hurry," he said, ruefully, laying down his knife
and fork. Everything was new for it.
In the center stood a stone fountain consists of a bowl and four dolphins intermittently discharging
muddy water jets and thick, however, anxious collected barrels black water carriers to sell the city
at the rate of average real silver one. Radios that were based center or trails, nothing straight
by the way, in several directions positions marked by pleasure, even with the floor, in appearance
without order or ranking no, because next to one that sold vegetables or vegetables, was another of live
birds, or fruit, or hunting, or edible roots, or cage birds, or vegetables, or river fish and
seafood, still in the basket or pot pot fisherman, or fresh meat served in ordinary tables mounted
on their heads in barrels or inserts scissors, and all breathing moisture strewn leaves, peels
of fruits and green corn, feathers and mud without a roof or an awning, not a decent face,
and black farmers, ill-clothed ones, almost naked others whiffs of various scents everywhere, a
shrill and unpleasant gibberish, and above the blue sky seen through a skylight, which appeared
one or two Flying cloudscape, imitating, and transparent gauze, sometimes invisible wings of angels.

They
entered the square and out of her black and black, these with the purpose of providing Daily
house of their masters, to procure those with the wholesale price
of meat, vegetables or fruits that resold at retail within the city
or its neighborhoods outside: this traffic, by the way that, quite
lucrative in many cases.

There was something about the new dress Mary wore Prussian Rule, in the way of bringing the silk
handkerchief that was watching the morbid half of Bayajá shoulders
and that was covered raisins; in black shiny face and bare arms and
turned, announcing health and strength, in the general appearance
of an outsider, in sadness or shyness to her face and attitude showed,
there was something, say, in all this, which could not fail to attract
attention, even indifferent people and very busy with her own chores.

 Bob would always
be playing tricks, with a fellow like that, and be getting into rows with him. There will be
no playing tricks with Teddy Burke, for he is up to the whole thing, himself."

"I should think he is, Gerald. Well, we will see how it works, anyhow.

"Go on with your fowl, Bob. You will see all about it, in good time." 

Recounting the story he told me D. John Fresco, whose certainty confirmed to some point, my dear
friend D. Aureliano, I can not remember a study that he wrote and published years ago, Rosa
Cleveland, sister of former President of the United States. The study entitled Faith altruistic,
capital seeks to demonstrate that the mission of women is to reveal to man his top destinations,
encourage him to fight and inspire the spirit and confidence that are necessary to achieve them.

MASTER RAYMOND

I

In several treatises on political economy I have seen an account, from which it follows that the
industry of cobblers in France has produced since the discovery of America until today, six or seven
times more wealth than all the gold and silver have come to Europe
from this new and vast continent.

This leads me, without fear of going through unlikely inventor of backstage, teacher talking
here of Raymond.

Making shoes began to be rich, then his wealth grew, giving money to award, although to be
conscientious man, fearing God and very compassionate, never took more than 10 100 a year later,
he founded and opened a shop or bazaar, where they sold all there is to sell sugar, coffee,
beans, cod, cards, prayer books, books for school children, and all
kind of fabrics and trimmings for the clothing of men and women.

The teacher was being also quite a few estates of their debtors, and became owner of vineyards,
olive groves, orchards and farms.

No longer wielded the awl, or put the tirapié, or soiled fingers cerote but true to its origins,
retaining the shoe store where they worked official experts, the disciples own. The Grand Bazaar
was next. And next to the shoe and the bazaar could be seen revoked and the beautiful façade
of the house, situated in the central and widest street in town. Behind this house and in
uninterrupted succession, had patios, yards, stables, tinados, warehouses, barns, press, oil mill,
and in short, everything that can hold and has a wealthy farmer and
owner of Andalusia.

The back door that gave entrance these barns, one could say that was outside the walls of the village,
if people have walls, while the main door, as stated above was at the center.

The teacher Raymond never wanted to commit or be mixed in politics, but suddenly had to change.
He had done fusion and had agreed to be head of that party Villalegre politician and mayor.

He was a widower, was already fifteen years. And it was about seven he had his only son, D. Raimundo
Roldán Chain, studying or walking and idling in Madrid, then on this point differ not a little the
authors. Also differ about the cause of the long and uninterrupted absence the child, attributing
one happier than widowhood Recollect father, for which there embarrassment or scandal was the presence
of the child, and others attributing it to indifference and arrogance
the latter, who lived in Madrid as elegant and illustrious gentleman,
who spoke of his house manor, and repelled back to the place to see
the plebeian coarseness of his father and the early fundamental and
shoe tenaciously preserved.

Since this was, D. Raymond was given in Madrid tone very noble, and gentle presence, his sartorial
elegance and used to spend the money due, paid to nobility no credit short. He was also robust and
flexible in all bodily exercises, great pistol shooter, foil and
saber, good rider, best dancer, and very funny, witty and funny.

He had many friends and was in Madrid as a fish in water.

Only recently he had graduated Juris Doctor, and had sent his father PhD thesis. The father
read very carefully the first four or five pages, but not understand a word, he became dizzy
and stopped reading. And it was very escamón, began to ponder then, whether the failure to understand
what it would be because of their ignorance, or whether it would, as Cánovas phrase that had
come to this place, because her son was a fool adulterated the study or if it was because
there had been no such study no such alteration, but because the boy had studied very little
and to hide it, had filled his speech phrases hollow, relying on
his boldness and simplicity of many people who do not understand do
you most admire.

"Do sit down and be reasonable, Teddy. There are cigars in that box on the table."

"The tobacco here almost reconciles one to living outside Ireland," Dr. Burke said, as he lit
a cigar, and seated himself in one of the comfortable chairs. "Just about a quarter the price
they are at home, and brandy at one shilling per bottle. It is lucky for the country that we
don't get them at that price, in Ireland; for it is mighty few boys they would get to enlist,
if they could get tobacco and spirits at such prices, at home."

"I have been telling Gerald that it will be much better for him to drink claret, out here,"
Mrs. O'Halloran said.

"And you are not far wrong," the doctor agreed; "but the native wines here are good enough
for me, and you can get them at sixpence a quart. I was telling them, at mess yesterday, that
we must not write home and tell them about it; or faith, there would be such an emigration
that the Rock wouldn't hold the people--not if you were to build houses all over it. Sixpence
a quart, and good sound tipple!

"Sure, and it was a mighty mistake of Providence that Ireland was not dropped down into the
sea, off the coast of Spain. What a country it would have been!"

"I don't know, Teddy," Captain O'Halloran said. "As the people don't kill themselves with overwork,
now, I doubt if they would ever work at all, if they had the excuse of a hot climate for doing
nothing."

"There would not have been so much need, Gerald. They needn't have bothered about the thatch,
when it only rains once in six months, or so; while as for clothes, it is little enough they
would have needed. And the bogs would all have dried up, and they would have had crops without
more trouble than just scratching the ground, and sowing in the seed; and they would have grown
oranges, instead of praties. Oh, it would have been a great country, entirely!"

The doctor's three listeners all went off into a burst of laughter, at the seriousness with
which he spoke.

"But you would have had trouble with your pigs," Mrs. O'Halloran said. "The Spanish pigs are
wild, fierce-looking beasts, and would never be content to share the cottages."

"Ah! But we would have had Irish pigs just the same as now. Well, what do you think--" and
he broke off suddenly, sitting upright, and dropping the brogue altogether--"they were saying,
at mess, that the natives declare there are lots of Spanish troops moving down in this direction;
and that a number of ships are expected, with stores, at Algeciras."

"Well, what of that?" Mrs. O'Halloran asked. "We are at peace with Spain. What does it matter
where they move their troops, or land stores?"

"That is just the thing. We are at peace with them, sure enough; but that is no reason why
we should be always at peace. You know how they hate seeing our flag flying over the Rock;
and they may think that, now we have got our hands full with France, and the American colonists,
it will be the right time for them to join in the scrimmage, and see if they can't get the
Rock back again."

"But they would never go to war, without any ground of complaint!"

"I don't know, Mrs. O'Halloran. When one wants to pick a quarrel with a man, it is always a
mighty easy thing to do so. You can tread on his toe, and ask him what he put it there for;
or sit down on his hat, and swear that he put it on the chair on purpose; or tell him that
you do not like the colour of his hair, or that his nose isn't the shape that pleases you.
It is the easiest thing in the world to find something to quarrel about, when you have a mind
for it."

"Are you quite serious, Teddy?"

"Never more serious in my life.

"Have you heard about it, Gerald?"

"I heard them saying something about it, when we were waiting for the colonel on parade, this
morning; but I did not think much of it."

"Well, of course, it mayn't be true, Gerald; but the colonel and major both seemed to think
that there was something in it. It seems, from what they said, that the governor has had letters
that seemed to confirm the news that several regiments are on the march south; and that stores
are being collected at Cadiz, and some of the other seaports. There is nothing, as far as we
know, specially said about Gibraltar; but what else can they be getting ready for, unless it
is to cross the Straits and attack the Moors--and they are at peace with them, at present,
just as they are with us? I mean to think that they are coming here, till we are downright
sure they are not. The news is so good, I mean to believe that it is true, as long as I can."

"For shame, Teddy!" Mrs. O'Halloran said. "You can't be so wicked as to hope that they are
going to attack us?"

"And it is exactly that point of wickedness I have arrived at," the doctor said, again dropping
into the brogue. "In the first place, sha'n't we need something, to kape us from dying entirely
of nothing to do at all, at all, in this wearisome old place? We are fresh to it, and we are
not tired, yet, of the oranges and the wine and the cigars, and the quare people you see in
the streets; but the regiments that have been here some time are just sick of their lives.
Then, in the second place, how am I going to learn my profession, if we are going to stop here,
quiet and peaceful, for years? Didn't I come into the army to study gunshot wounds and, barring
duels, divil a wound have I seen since I joined. It's getting rusty I am, entirely; and there
is the elegant case of instruments my aunt gave me, that have never been opened. By the same
token, I will have them out and oil them, in the morning."

"Don't talk in that way, Teddy. You ought to be ashamed of yourself. It seems to me that you
are making a great to-do about nothing. Some soldiers have been marched somewhere in Spain,
and all this talk is made up about it. They must know, very well, they can't take the Rock.
They tried it once, and I should have thought they would not be in a hurry to try it again.
I shall believe in it when I see it.

"You need not look so delighted, Bob. If there should be any trouble--and it seems nonsense
even to think about such a thing--but if there should be any, we should put you on board the
very first vessel sailing for England, and get you off our minds."

Bob laughed.

"I should go down and ship as a powder monkey, on one of the ships of war; or enlist as a drummer,
in one of the regiments; and then I should be beyond your authority, altogether."

"I begin to think you are beyond my authority already, Bob.

"Gerald, I am afraid we did a very foolish thing in agreeing to have this boy out here."

"Well, we have got him on our hands now, Carrie; and it is early, yet, for you to find out
your mistake.

"Well, if there should be a siege--"

"You know there is no chance of it, Gerald."

"Well, I only say if, and we are cut off from all the world, he will be a companion to you,
and keep you alive, while I am in the batteries."

"I won't hear such nonsense talked any more, Gerald; and if Teddy Burke is going to bring us
every bit of absurd gossip that may be picked up from the peasants, he can stay away, altogether."

"Except when he comes to instruct his pupil, Mrs. O'Halloran."

"Oh, that is not likely to last long, Dr. Burke!"

"That is to be seen, Mrs. O'Halloran. It is a nice example you are setting him of want of respect
for his instructor. 

And the father cried in his arms to oppress. Silently lamented the brevity of the interview; thought
of the dangers awaiting his only son to leave him.

When René had disappeared, the captain started the running of the group. It was getting late; should
arrive before nightfall to a given cantonment.

Iban downhill, away of an edge of the mountain, watching very high enemy projectiles.

In a hollow they found several groups of 75 guns. Were scattered in the woods, concealed by piles
of branches, crouched like dogs barking poking their noses gray. The big guns roared at intervals
of serious pause. These packs of screaming steel incessantly, without opening the slightest break
in her anger noisy, like a tear fabric that is part endless.

The pieces were many, the rapid fire, and explosions mingled into one, as the series of points are
joined to form a compact line.

The leaders, intoxicated by the sound, gave his orders to shouting
and waving their arms walking behind the pieces.

The guns were sliding on the stationary carriages, moving and back like automatic pistols. Each
shot threw the empty dish, introducing a new bullet point in the room smoking.

Swirling air behind the battery to swell furious. Lacour and his partner received a blow to every
shot in the chest, the violent contact of an invisible hand that pushed back. They had to pace your
breathing to the sound of gunfire. During hundredth of a second, between the air wave and new
wave swept progressed, her breasts experienced the anguish of the
void.

Desnoyers admired these dogs bark gray. Knew While their bites, which amounted to several
kilometers. Still remained fresh in his poor castle.

A Lacour it seemed that the ranks of cannon monotonous chanting and fierce, as they should hymns
to be warriors of mankind from prehistoric times. This music notes dry, deafening, delirious,
waking up was something that sleeps two in the bottom of All souls:
the savagery of the remote ancestors.

The air is warmed with pungent odors, sharp, brutally intoxicating. The perfumes of the explosive
came to the brain the mouth, ears, and eyes.

Experienced the same inflaming of directors of the pieces, shouting and bracts in the midst of
thunder.

Empty capsules were forming a thick layer behind the guns. Fire! ... Always fire!

- You have to spray it - shouting heads -. We must give a good watering the forest where the Boches.

And
watered the mouths of 75 non-stop, flooding the remote woods projectiles.

Emboldened by this deadly activity, intoxicated by the speed shredder, subject the rapture of
the red hours, Lacour and Desnoyers were suddenly waving their hats, moving from side to side
as if they were to dance the sacred dance of death, screaming mouth dry steam per acre wildfire,
"Viva ... alive! "

The car rolled all afternoon, stopping sometimes congested roads by The long parade of trains.
Passed through fallow fields, with skeletons housing. They ran along the torching of villages
that were nothing more than a succession of black facades with open holes on the vacuum.

- Now it's up to you - to the senator said Desnoyers -. We're going to see his son.

They met at the late afternoon with numerous groups of infantry soldiers Luengo beard and faded blue
uniforms for the weather. Returning from the entrenchments, taking over the hump of their
backpacks shovels, picks and other tools to remove dirt, who had
become a key combat arms.

Iban head covered in mud to feet. Everyone seemed old in their youth.

His joy at returning to the cantonment after a week of trench populated the silence of the
plain with songs accompanied by the dull shock of spiked shoes. In the violet dusk, the male
choir he was scattering the winged strophes of the Marseillaise or
heroic claims Canto starting.

- They are the soldiers of the revolution
- said Senator excited -, France has gone back to 1792.

They spent the night in a half ruined town, which had established the headquarters of division.
The two captains were fired. Others would be responsible for guiding them in the morning next.

They
had stayed in the Hotel de la Sirena "old building, with the front
gnawed by shells.

The owner proudly showed them a broken window that had taken the form of a crater. This window was
losing its importance to the ancient sign of establishment: a woman iron with a fish tail. As
Desnoyers occupied the adjoining room which had to received the projectile, the hotel wanted
to show it before they go to bed.

All broken, walls, floor, ceiling. Furniture made chips in the corners
of flowery rags paper hanging on the walls.

For a huge hole could be seen entering the stars and cold night. The owner did state that this
destruction was not the work of the Germans.

Had caused a projectile 75 to be repelled the invaders out of town. And smiled patriotic pride
in the destruction, repeating:

- It is the work of our own. How about how it works for 75? ... What do you say this? ...

Despite the fatigue of travel, Mr. Marcelo slept badly, troubled by the thought that their son
was a short distance.

An hour after sunrise and left the village by car driven by another officer. A the two sides of the
road were camps and camps. Parks left behind ammunition passed the third line of troops, then
the second. Thousands and thousands of men had been installed in the countryside, improvising
their homes. This tingling manly remembered, with its variety uniforms and races, the great
invasions of history. It was a town in progress: exodus of people after it has been women and
children. Here were men only, men everywhere.

All kinds of room passing for mankind from the cave, were used in these agglomerations military.
The caves and quarries were used as barracks. A reminded the American farm huts, others long
and conical, imitating the gurbi Africa. Many of the soldiers came from the colonies, some had lived
as dealers in New World countries, and having to improvise a home more stable than the canvas
tent, appealing to their memories, mimicking the architecture of the tribes who were on contact.
Moreover, this mass of Moroccan fighters had handles, black and Asian
that seemed to grow away from the cities, getting to an open field
superiority made them masters of the civilized.

Beside streams fluttering white robes out to dry.

Rows of bare-chested men facing the fresh morning, leaning on the
blade with water to wash noise followed by vigorous scrubbing ablations
... On a bridge a soldier wrote, using as table the parapet ... The
cooks were moving around the steaming pots.

A whiff soup greasy morning was spreading among the resinous perfume of trees and smell of wet
earth.

Long wooden huts and zinc served the cavalry and artillery to save the livestock and material.
The soldiers were cleaning and outdoor shod horses, pike and fat. Trench warfare kept them in placid
obesity.

- If they had been well in the battle of the Marne !...-- Desnoyers said his friend.

Now, the horses lived in endless rest. Their riders were fighting on foot, firing in the trenches.
The beasts were swollen in a quiet convent, and had to take them
out ride to avoid getting sick before the manger full.

Stood on the plain, gray like dragonflies, several airplanes ready
to fly.

Many men were grouped around them. The peasants become soldiers considered Comrade admiringly
handlers of these machines.

They saw in him the same power of the revered and feared wizards in the stories of the village.

Don
Marcelo was set in the overall transformation of the French uniform. All were grayish blue-clad
head to foot. Scarlet pants, the red kepi was seen in the days of the Marne, were gone. The men
who traveled on the roads were military. All vehicles up the oxcart, were guided by a soldier.

Suddenly
stopped the car near some houses ruined and blackened by fire.

- We have arrived - said the officer -. Now we have to walk a bit.

The senator and his friend started to march down the road.

- Not that way - back to say the guide -. That way is harmful to health.
Get rid air flows.

He explained that the Germans had their guns and entrenchments at the end of this road descending by
a depression in the ground and went back on the horizon the white tape between two rows of
trees and burned houses. Pale morning, with its misty fading, we put to cover from enemy fire.
On a sunny day, the arrival of the car would have been greeted with
a howitzer.

"This war is like that - he concluded -, is close to a death without her."

It agreed to the two general recommendations that had been the day before your table. "Beware: the
trench warfare is a traitor." They saw before them the vast field without a person, but their commonality.
Was the field on Sunday, when workers are at home and the soil seems to refocus in silent meditation.
Objects were reports abandoned in the plains, such as agricultural implements in days of rest.
Maybe cars were broken harmonies artillery destroyed in the explosion of its load.

- Over here - said the official, adding that four soldiers had to shoulder various bags and
packages brought by Desnoyers on the roof of the car.

They walked in single file along a blackened brick wall, following
a downward path.

A few steps from the ground surface was at the height of his knees, and beyond them reached at the
waist, then to the shoulders, and so dug into the earth, seeing only over their heads a narrow
strip of sky.

Were in the countryside. They had left behind him a group of ruins that hid the entrance the road.
They marched in an absurd way, as if they hated the straight line,
zigzag, in curves, angles.

Other no less complicated paths started from the ditch, which was the avenue central city of a vast
underground. Walking ... walked. A quarter of an hour, half an hour, an hour. Lacour and his
friend thought longingly of the roads flanked tree, the outdoor gear,
watching the sky and fields.

They did not twenty paces row in the same direction.

The officer, who was ahead, disappearing at every moment in revolt.

Those who were panting and talking behind invisible, having to rush step not to miss. From time
to time were high to refocus and include for fear that someone had
lost in a transverse gallery.

The floor was slippery. In some places there was an almost liquid mud, white and corrosive, like
the dripping from the scaffolding of a house under construction.

The echo of his footsteps, the rustle of her shoulders, gave off clods and pebbles of the two
slopes. Now and then up the ditch and came up with him walking.

Even a small effort to see over the mounds. But what I saw were uncultivated fields, fences
with poles on the cross, looking as plain lies, lack of inhabitants. Knew Experience the officer
that cost many times that curiosity, and not allow them to prolong
it: "Forward, forward."

They had an hour and half walking. The two travelers began to feel the fatigue and disorientation
in this way in zigzag. And knew not whether advancing or retreating. The rough slopes, Continuous
riots, produced in them a principle of vertigo.

- Is it much to
get there - said the senator.

- There - said the officer, pointing
above the mounds.

There was a tower in ruins and several houses that were burned in
the distance: the remains of a people made and lost several times
by each other.

The same way they would have done on the earth's crust in half an hour going online straight. At
the angles of the underground road, ready to prevent enemy advance, obstacles had to be added
to the fortification of campaign tunnels cut by fences; wire cages that were suspended, but the
fall obstructing the ditch, can the defenders to fire through the
lattice.

Began to find soldiers with bales and buckets of water. Were lost in the tortuous cross paths.
Some were sitting on a pile of logs, reading a smile little paper written in the trenches.

Felt in the way the same evidence that reported on the surface of the earth the proximity of
a population. Soldiers turned away to make way for the procession; sticking bearded faces and curious
in the alleys. Sounded in the distance a cacophony of noise dry as if at the end of the tortuous path
exist a firing range or exercise group hunters to shoot down pigeons.

The morning was still cloudy and cold. Despite the humid environment, a buzzing bumblebee sticky
crossed several times over the two visitors.

- Bullets - the official said laconically.

Desnoyers had sunk a little head between his shoulders. Was well aware that noise insect. The
senator went faster, and felt no fatigue.
Were faced with a lieutenant colonel who received them as an engineer
who teaches workshops, as a naval officer showing the batteries and
towers of the battleship. He was the head of battalion occupied this
sector of the trenches. Don Marcelo looked forward to thinking that
his son was under his orders.

- This is like a ship - said after
hello.

The two friends recognized that underground fortifications
had some overlap with the bowels of a ship. They went from trench
to trench. They were the last line, older, dark galleries in which
only came to light trickles through the loopholes and the large windows
and low machine guns. The long line of defense was a tunnel, cut short
open spaces. It was jumping from light to dark and dark to light with
a rough visual tired eyes. In the open spaces the soil was higher.
There were benches built into the slope table for observers could
make head or examine the landscape using the periscope. Confined spaces
served to both batteries and bedrooms.

These barracks had been discovered
at the beginning trenches, equal to those of first line. To repel
the enemy and gain ground, the fighters, who carried them all winter,
had sought installed with greater comfort. On-air trenches free beams
had crossed the ruined houses, on the beams, planks, doors, windows
and woodwork over several rows of sandbags. These bags were covered
by a layer of humus from which sprang herbs, giving the back of the
trench a placidity green and pastoral. The vaults of time resisting
the fall of the shells, which were buried them without causing major
damage.

"Well, Repton, remember whenever you are disposed for a cruise, I shall be glad to take you
as passenger. Sankey will make you at home in the midshipmen's berth. If the Spaniards declare
war with us, we shall have stirring times at sea, as well as on shore and, though you won't
get any share in any prize money we may win, while you are on board, you will have part of
the honour; and you see, making captures is quite in your line."

The next day, Captain O'Halloran and Bob dined on board the Brilliant. Captain Langton introduced
the lad to his officers, telling them that he wished him to be considered as being free on
board the ship, whether he himself happened to be on board or not, when he came off.

"But you must keep an eye on him, Mr. Hardy, while he is on board," he said to the first lieutenant.

"Mr. Sankey," and he nodded at Jim, who was among those invited, "is rather a pickle, but from
what I hear Repton is worse. So you will have to keep a sharp eye upon them, when they are
together; and if they are up to mischief, do not hesitate to masthead both of them. A passenger
on board one of His Majesty's ships is amenable to discipline, like anyone else."

"I will see to it, sir," the lieutenant said, laughing. "Sankey knows the way up, already."

"Yes. I think I observed him taking a view of the shore from that elevation, this morning."

Jim coloured hotly.

"Yes, sir," the lieutenant said. "The doctor made a complaint that his leeches had got out
of their bottle, and were all over the ship; and I fancy one of them got into his bed, somehow.
He had given Mr. Sankey a dose of physic in the morning; and remembered afterwards that, while
he was making up the medicine, Sankey had been doing something in the corner where his bottles
were. When I questioned Sankey about it, he admitted that he had observed the leeches, but
declined to criminate himself farther. So I sent him aloft for an hour or two, to meditate
upon the enormity of wasting His Majesty's medical stores."

"I hope, Captain O'Halloran," the captain said, "that you have less trouble with your brother-in-law
than we have with his friend."

"Bob hasn't had much chance, yet," Captain O'Halloran said, laughing. "He is new to the place,
as yet; and besides, he is really working hard, and hasn't much time for mischief; but I don't
flatter myself that it is going to last."

"Well, Mr. Sankey, you may as well take your friend down, and introduce him formally to your
messmates," the captain said; and Jim, who had been feeling extremely uncomfortable since the
talk had turned on the subject of mastheading, rose and made his escape with Bob, leaving the
elders to their wine.

The proposed excursion to the Spanish lines did not come off, as the Brilliant put to sea again,
on the day fixed for it. She was away a fortnight and, on her return, the captain issued orders
that none of the junior officers, when allowed leave, were to go beyond the lines; for the
rumours of approaching troubles had become stronger and, as the peasantry were assuming a somewhat
hostile attitude, any act of imprudence might result in trouble. Jim often had leave to come
ashore in the afternoon and, as this was the time that Bob had to himself, they wandered together
all over the Rock, climbed up the flagstaff, and made themselves acquainted with all the paths
and precipices.

Their favourite place was the back of the Rock; where the cliff, in many places, fell sheer
away for hundreds of feet down into the sea. They had many discussions as to the possibility
of climbing up on that side, though both agreed that it would be impossible to climb down.

"I should like to try, awfully," Bob said, one day early in June, as they were leaning on a
low wall looking down to the sea.

"But it would never do to risk getting into a scrape here. It wouldn't, indeed, Bob. They don't
understand jokes at Gib. One would be had up before the big wigs, and court-martialled, and
goodness knows what. Of course, it is jolly being ashore; but one never gets rid of the idea
that one is a sort of prisoner. The memory of her husband had passed between them like a breath
glacial. July was the first to revive.

- And you have not danced in so long?

- No, how could that be? Look, a lady who is in negotiations for divorce!

... I have not been chic to any meetings since you left. I wanted to save some grief for your
absence. One day Tangier in a family party. What horror! ... Miss you, teacher.

Had turned to shake hands and smile.

Paraded before their eyes memories Some months earlier, when he started his love, from five
to seven in the evening, dancing hotels in the Champs Elysees conducting
the indissoluble union of the tango with cup area.

She seemed to pull out of these impulses to memories of a tenacious
obsession which had only forgotten in the first moments of the match.

-
You who know much say: Do you think there will be war?

People talk so much! ... Do not you think everything will eventually be fixed?

Desnoyers supported it with his optimism. Not believe in the possibility of war. Was absurd.

-
So I say. Our times are not savages. I have known Germans, chic people and well educated, who
probably think like us. An old professor who goes home mamma explained yesterday that wars are
no longer possible in this time of breakthrough.

At two months would be just men, unto the three, the world would be no money to continue struggle.
I do not remember how it was, but he explained it palpably, in a
way that gave like to hear.

Mused in silence, trying to coordinate their confused memories, but frightened by the effort this
meant, he added his own:

- Imagine a war. What horror! Social life paralyzed. Meetings would end, costumes, theater. It
is even possible that no trends were invented. All women mourning. "He sees it? ... And Paris
desert ... So nice that I found myself this afternoon when came looking for you! ... No, it can
be. Imagine that next month we go to Vichy: Mom water needs and then to Biarritz. Then go to
a castle of the Loire. And there's our case, my divorce, our marriage, which can be done next
year ... And all this come to prevent it and cut a war!

No, not possible. These are things my brother and others like him, who dream of the danger of Germany.
I'm sure my husband, who only like to engage in serious and annoying things, it is also those
who believe the war next and prepare for it. What nonsense! Tell
me that is nonsense.

I need you tell me.

And reassured by the statements of his mistress, changed the course of the conversation. The possibility
the remarriage mentioned it in his memory recalled the purpose of the journey undertaken by
Desnoyers. They had not had time to write during the short separation.

- Did you get money? With the joy of seeing so many things I forgot ...

He talked about taking the air of a man skilled in business. Brought less than expected. He had
found the country in one of its periodic crises. Still, he managed to gather four hundred
thousand francs. In the portfolio kept a check for that amount.

Later would make further shipments. A master of the field, something relative, looking after
his affairs. Margarita seemed satisfied.

She also adopted an air of serious women, in spite of their frivolity.

-
Money is money - sententiously said - and without it there is no such
insurance.

With your four thousand and what I have can go forward ... I warn you that my husband wants
to give my dowry. So says my brother. But the state of their business, the progress of his
factory, not allow restitution in such a hurry as he wanted to. I pity the poor ... Tan honest
and upright in all things. If it were not so vulgar! ...

Margarita again seemed to repent of these late spontaneous praise that cooled interview. July seemed
annoyed to hear. And again she changed the subject of his talk.

- What about your family? Have you seen ...?

Desnoyers had been in his parents' house before heading to the Chapel
of Atonement.

A illegal entry into the large building on the avenue Victor I. Had risen to the first floor
the stairs, as a supplier. Then he had slipped into the kitchen the
same a soldier lover of one of the maids.

There had come to embrace his mother, poor Dona Luisa, weeping, covering him with kisses frantic,
as if he had thought lost to forever. Then there appeared Luisita, called Chichi, who always
looked nice curiosity, as if to learn all about what a bad brother and adorable away decent
women to the path of virtue and lives doing crazy things. Then a Desnoyers big surprise, because
he saw into the kitchen, an actress with an air of solemn, tragedy
noble mother, his aunt Elena, married to German, living in Berlin
surrounded of countless children.

- Is in Paris a month ago.

Going to spend some time in our castle. It also seems who walks around his eldest son, my cousin
"the wise", to which I have not seen for years.

The interview was cut several times by fear. "The old man is at home, ten care, "her mother said
every time he raised his voice. And his Aunt Elena went to the door with dramatic step, like
a heroine resolved to to stab the tyrant if it passes the threshold
of his camera.

The entire family remained under the rigid authority of Don Marcelo Desnoyers.

- Oh, that old! - Exclaimed Julio, referring to his father -. Live many years, but how weighs
on us all!

His mother, who never tired of behold, he had to hasten the end of the interview, frightened
by certain sounds. "Go away, could surprise, and disgust would be enormous." And he had fled
the family home tears greeted by two ladies and looks Chichi admiring, blushing and pleased at
once to a brother who caused among friends scandal and enthusiasm.

Margarita also spoke of Mr. Desnoyers. A terrible old man, a man to the former, with which would
never come to be understood.

Both fell silent, staring intently. Had already said the most urgent, what interested his future.
But there were other more immediate things on the inside and seemed
to hover in the eyes, shy and hesitant, before escaping in the form
of words.

Did not dare to talk like lovers.

There was a growing around them the number of witnesses. The lady with the dog and the red wig
was passing more often, shortening their round the square to greet them with a knowing smile.
The newspaper reader now had a bank nearby to discuss the possibilities
of war.

The garden turned into a street. The dressmakers, to leave the workroom, and the ladies, back stores,
crossed it to gain ground.

The short street was a shortcut ever more popular, and all pedestrians passing threw a curious
look on Mrs. Smart and his partner, sitting under a vegetation group, looking shrunken and
natural falsely of people who want to hide and pretend at the same time an attitude carefree.

-
What a nuisance! - Cried Margarita -. We are going to be surprised.

A girl stared at her, and she thought she recognized an employee of a famous couturier. Furthermore,
they could cross the garden some of those friends who had an hour
before glimpsed in the crowd that filled the stores nearby.

- Come
on - continued -.

If you see us together! Imagine what you speak ... And now just that people will have forgotten
something.

Desnoyers protested crossly. "Leaving?

... Paris was young to them because of Margarita, who refused to return to the only place where
they would be safe from any surprise. On another ride, in a restaurant, where they were, were at equal
risk of being known.

She only accepted interviews in public places, and at the same time I felt fear of the curious people.
If Margaret wanted to go to his studio, so many sweet memories!

...

--- No, to your house is not - "she said hastily -. I can not forget the last day I was there.

But
Julio insisted, guessing at its steadfast refusal to splitting of an initial hesitation. Where
would be better? Besides, is not going to marry as soon as possible? ...

- I say no - he repeated it -. Who knows if my husband watches me! What complication my divorce
if they surprised us at home!

Now it was he who eulogized the husband, trying to demonstrate that this surveillance was inconsistent
with his character. The engineer had accepted the facts, judging them irreparable and at that
moment thought only of rebuilding their lives.

- No, it's best to separate - she continued -. Tomorrow we'll see. You will look elsewhere more
discreet. Think, you find a solution to everything.

But he wanted an immediate solution. They had left their seats, moving
slowly to the rue des Mathurins.

July spoke with a trembling and persuasive eloquence.

Tomorrow no, now. They had no more than calling a "self", renting a few minutes of running,
and then isolation, the mystery around the sweet passed, intimacy in that study had seen their
best times. Believe that he had not elapsed, they were still in their first interviews.

- No - said her faint accent, looking for a last stand -.

It will also be there your secretary, the Spanish who accompanies you. Shame meet him! ...

July laughed ... Argensola!

Could be an obstacle this comrade he knew all his past? If you were in the house, would come immediately.
More than once he had been forced to abandon the study not to hinder.

His discretion was such that he was present events.

Surely that was out, guessing an upcoming visit could not be more
logical.

I would walk the streets in search of news.

Margarita fell silent, as if to declare due to see her pretexts exhausted. Desnoyers was silent
also readily accepted his silence. They had left the garden, and she looked around anxiously, afraid
of being in the street beside her lover and looking for shelter. Suddenly she saw before her
a red car door opened by the hand of his partner.

- Upload - ordered in July.

And she went hastily to the anxiety of hiding soon. The vehicle was put into up to speed. Margarita
fell immediately next window curtain to his seat. But before the end of the transaction and would turn
his head, felt a mouth eager to stroke his neck.

- No, not here
- he said pleading -.

Let us be serious.

And while he, rebellious to such admonitions, insisted on his passionate advances, the voice of
Margarita rang again on the old hardware crash that threw the car jumping on the pavement.

- Do you really think there will be no war? Do you think we get married? ... Tell me again. Need I calm
down ... I hear it in your mouth.

II

The centaur Madariaga

In 1870 Marcelo Desnoyers was nineteen years. He was born in the outskirts of Paris. Was an only child,
and father, dedicated to building small speculation, kept family in a modest prosperity. The builder
wanted to make his son an architect, and Marcelo preparatory studies began when his father died
suddenly, leaving his business muddled. Within months, he and his mother descended the slope
of the debris, looking forced to renounce their bourgeois comforts like the workers to live.

When
he was fourteen he had to choose a profession, became a carver. This job was a art and was related
to hobbies awakened in Marcelo by his studies necessarily abandoned.

His mother retired to the country seeking the shelter with relatives. He advanced with quickly in
the shop, helping his master all the important work performed in the provinces. The first news
of war with Prussia was surprised in Marseille working in the decoration of a theater.

Marcelo was a foe of the Empire, like all young men of his generation. In addition he was influenced
for older workers, who had participated in the Republic of 48 and kept alive the memory the coup
d'état of December 2. One day he saw on the streets of Marseilles demonstration popular for peace,
which amounted to a protest against the government. Old Republicans in the relentless struggle
with the emperor, fellow of the International which had just organized,
and large numbers of Spanish and Italians who escaped from their countries
by recent upheavals, composed courtship.

A student consumptive hairy and wore the flag, "Peace is what we want; a peace that all men, "chanted
the demonstrators. But on earth, the most noble purposes are seldom heard, for the twist fate has
fun in and divert. Cannebière just entered the friends of peace with his anthem and flag, was the
war that came out to meet them, having to appeal to the fist and stick. The day before had landed
a few battalions of Zouaves from Algeria who came to reinforce the army of the border and these
veterans, accustomed to the existence colonial on unscrupulous abuses, thought it appropriate
to intervene in the demonstration, some with bayonets, others with belts desceñidos. "Long live
the war!" And a rain of lashes and blows fell on the singers. Marcelo
could see the candid student who made appeals for peace with a gravity
priests involved in his standard rolled under the gleeful kick of
the Zouaves. And do not learned more, then hit him several lashes,
a slight gash on his shoulder, and had to run the same as the others.

One
day he first revealed his tenacious character, haughty, irritable
before contradiction, to the point of adopting the most extreme resolutions.
The memory of the beatings enraged him as something called revenge.
"Down with war!" Since he could not protest otherwise, leave their
country. The fight was going to be long, disastrous, as the enemies
Empire. The came in fifth in a few months. Emperor could arrange their
affairs as you see fit. Desnoyers renounced the honor of serving.
He hesitated a little to remember of his mother. But his family did
not abandon the field and he had intended to work much to send money.
Who knows if he expected the wealth across the sea! ... Goodbye, France!

Due
to their savings, a broker offered port paperless boarding on three
ships. One went to Egypt, another to Australia, another to Montevideo
and Buenos Aires, which he saw fit? ... Desnoyers, remembering his
reading, he wanted to see the wind and follow the road that marks
as had been done to various heroes of novels. But one day the wind
blew from the part of the sea, going into France. Also wanted to throw
a coin in high to indicate destination. Finally decided by the ship
to come out before. Only when he was with his meager baggage on the
deck of a steamer sailing next to was interested in knowing their
way: "To the Rio de la Plata ... " It is stupid to be in a place, and know nothing
of its history. You are rising in my estimation fast, Dr. Burke."

"Mistress O'Halloran," the doctor said, rising and making a deep bow, "you overwhelm me, entirely;
and now I must say goodnight, for I must look in at the hospital, before I turn in to my quarters."

Chapter 8: The Siege Begins.

On the 19th of June General Eliott, accompanied by several of his officers, paid a visit to
the Spanish lines to congratulate General Mendoza, who commanded there, on the promotion that
he had just received. The visit lasted but a short time, and it was remarked that the Spanish
officer seemed ill at ease. Scarcely had the party returned to Gibraltar than a Swedish frigate
entered the bay, having on board Mr. Logie, H.M. Consul in Barbary, who had come across in
her from Tangier. He reported that a Swedish brig had put in there. She reported that she had
fallen in with the French fleet, of twenty-eight sail of the line, off Cape Finisterre; and
that they were waiting there to be joined by the Spanish fleet, from Cadiz.

The news caused great excitement; but it was scarcely believed, for the Spanish general had
given the most amicable assurances to the governor. On the 21st, however, the Spaniards, at
their lines across the neutral ground, refused to permit the mail to pass; and a formal notification
was sent in that intercourse between Gibraltar and Spain would no longer be permitted. This
put an end to all doubt, and discussion. War must have been declared between Spain and England,
or such a step would never have been taken.

In fact, although the garrison did not learn it until some time later, the Spanish ambassador
in London had presented what was virtually a declaration of war, on the 16th. A messenger had
been sent off on the same day from Madrid, ordering the cessation of intercourse with Gibraltar
and, had he not been detained by accident on the road, he might have arrived during General
Eliott's visit to the Spanish lines; a fact of which Mendoza had been doubtless forewarned,
and which would account for his embarrassment at the governor's call.

Captain O'Halloran brought the news home, when he returned from parade.

"Get ready your sandbags, Carrie; examine your stock of provisions; prepare a store of lint,
and plaster."

"What on earth are you talking about, Gerald?"

"It is war, Carrie. The Dons have refused to accept our mail, and have cut off all intercourse
with the mainland."

Carrie turned a little pale. She had never really thought that the talk meant anything, or
that the Spaniards could be really intending to declare war, without having any ground for
quarrel with England.

"And does it really mean war, Gerald?"

"There is no doubt about it. The Spaniards are going to fight and, as their army can't swim
across the Bay of Biscay, I take it it is here they mean to attack us. Faith, we are going
to have some divarshun, at last."

"Divarshun! You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Gerald."

"Well, my dear, what have I come into the army for? To march about for four hours a day in
a stiff stock, and powder and pigtail and a cocked hat, and a red coat? Not a bit of it. Didn't
I enter the army to fight? And here have I been, without a chance of smelling powder, for the
last ten years. It is the best news I have had since you told me that you were ready and willing
to become Mrs. O'Halloran."

"And to think that we have got Bob out here with us!" his wife said, without taking any notice
of the last words. "What will uncle say?"

"Faith, and it makes mighty little difference what he says, Carrie, seeing that he is altogether
beyond shouting distance.

"As for Bob, he will be just delighted. Why, he has been working till his brain must all be
in a muddle; and it is the best thing in the world for him, or he would be mixing up the Spaniards
and the Romans, and the x's and y's and the tangents, and all the other things into a regular
jumble--and it is a nice business that would have been. It is the best thing in the world for
him, always supposing that he don't get his growth stopped, for want of victuals."

"You don't mean, really and seriously, Gerald, that we are likely to be short of food?"

"And that is exactly what I do mean. You may be sure that the Dons know, mighty well, that
they have no chance of taking the place on the land side. They might just as well lay out their
trenches against the moon. It is just starvation that they are going to try; and when they
get the eighteen French sail of the line that Mr. Logie brought news of, and a score or so
of Spanish men-of-war in the bay, you will see that it is likely you won't get your mutton
and your butter and vegetables very regularly across from Tangier."

"Well, it is very serious, Gerald."

"Very serious, Carrie."

"I don't see anything to laugh at at all, Gerald."

"I didn't know that I was laughing."

"You were looking as if you wanted to laugh, which is just as bad. I suppose there is nothing
to be done, Gerald?"

"Well, yes, I should go down to the town, and lay in a store of things that will keep. You
see, if nothing comes of it we should not be losers. The regiment is likely to be here three
or four years, so we should lose nothing by laying in a big stock of wine, and so on; while,
if there is a siege, you will see everything will go up to ten times its ordinary price. That
room through ours is not used for anything, and we might turn that into a storeroom.

"I don't mean that there is any hurry about it, today; but we ought certainly to lay in as
large a store as we can, of things that will keep. Some things we may get cheaper, in a short
time, than we can now. Cut
large tangles of branches covering the ground as if he had just passed through a band giant lumberjack.
Striped trunks appeared at a short distance from the earth, clean cut and polished, as a single
hack. Around the roots unearthed revolts stones abounded with lumps, stones sleeping in the
bowels of the earth and the explosion had blown onto the surface.

Here and there - shining through the trees or over the road with a compelling untimeliness annoying
to rodeos - spread their huge pools a water film, all equal, geometric regularity, round,
right round. Compared them with bowls Desnoyers sunk into the ground for the use of invisible giants
who had cleared the forest. Its depth enormous began at the very edges. A swimmer could throw in these
pools without touching the background. The water was green, dead water, rainwater, with a crust
of vegetation perforated by respiratory bubbles of small bodies that were beginning to live in their
guts.

In the middle of the hill, surrounded by pine trees, there were several graves with wooden crosses,
tombs French soldiers topped with tricolor flags. On these mounds covered kepis old moss gunners
rested. The Woodsman fierce, to destroy the forest, there reached
blindly to the ants moving the logs.

Don Marcelo was wearing leggings, big hat and a poncho over his shoulders rolled fine like
a blanket. Had brought to light these garments that reminded her of her life far into the room.
Lacour walked behind him, trying to preserve their dignity Senate between gasps fatigue and
puffing.

He also wore boots and soft hat, but had retained solemn skirts of his coat, not to completely
abandon his parliamentary uniform. Before marching two captains serving as guides.

They were on a mountain occupied by the French artillery. Iban to the summits, where there
cannons and guns hidden in a line of several kilometers.

The German gunners had caused this damage responding to the shots of the French. The forest
was torn by the shell. Funnels circular gaps were opened by the "hot pots Germanic background
soil and impermeable limestone retaining the streams of rain.

They had left their car at the foot of the mountain. One of the officers, old gunner, I said
this precaution. Should continue uphill cautiously. Were available from enemy, and a car could
bring their guns.

- A little tiring the rise - continued -. Courage, Senator! ... We're
close.

Began to cross paths with artillery soldiers. Many of them only had to the kepis military. Factory
workers seemed metallurgy, casters and adjusters, with corduroy pants and jackets. They had
bare arms, and some, to march the mud with greater security, wore wooden shoes. Were former employees
of incorporated by iron mobilization to the reserve artillery. Their sergeants had been foremen
and many of its officers, engineers and shop owners.

Suddenly, those who went up the iron ran into the forest dwellers. When they spoke shook the ground,
shaking the air, and the inhabitants of the trees, crows and hares, butterflies and ants, fled
in terror to hide, as if the world were to perish in noisy seizure. Now the roaring monsters
remained silent. It came along to them without seeing them. Among the green foliage sticking out the
end of something like a gray beam; other times, this apparition emerged
from a pile of snags.

When turning the obstacle appeared a square of clean soil occupied by several men who lived, slept
and worked around a huge device mounted on wheels.

The senator, who had written verses in his youth and poetry was speaking when opened a statue
in his district, saw in these lonely mountains, blackened by the sun and smoke, bare-chested
and rolled up, a sort of priests in the service of the fatal divinity,
he received from his hands the huge offering of blasting caps, vomiting
in the form of thunder.

Hidden under the branches, to escape the observation of enemy fliers, cannons French were scattered
along the ridges and plateaus of a series of mountains. In this herd had huge steel parts, reinforced
skate wheels, like those of the locomotives Desnoyers was agricultural
in their rooms for plowing.

As beasts smaller, agile and playful in their incessant barking, groups of 75 appeared interpolated
between the dark monsters.

The two captains had received from the general body of his army the
order to teach Senator detail the operation of the artillery.

And he accepted with reflective Lacour gravity observations, as he turned his eyes to one side
to another in the hope recognize his son. The interesting thing for him was to see to Rene
... But remembering the official pretext of his journey, followed by barrel cannon hearing explanations.

Shells
showed the servants of the pieces: large ogival cylinders extracted underground stores. These
stores, called "shelters" were deep burrows oblique holes reinforced
with sandbags and timber.

Served as refuge to free personal and keeping them covered with a munitions explosion.

A striker showed them two bags of white cloth attached, well packed.

They looked like a sausage were double the burden of one of the big guns. The bag was opened,
leaving to the packets of light pink sheets. The senator and his companion were astonished that
pasta, which looked like a toilet article, was one of the terrible war explosives modern.

- I say - Lacour said - that finding on the street one of these bundles have believed from bag
lady or a perfume clerk forgot ... anything but explosive. And with this, which seems made
for the lips, you can blow a building! ...

Went their way. At the top of the mountain saw a little tower collapsed. Was as more dangerous.
An officer examined from the enemy lines to assess the accuracy the shooting. While his comrades
were under the earth, or hidden by the foliage, he fulfilled his mission from this point visible.

A
short distance from the tower before their eyes opened an underground passage. Descended its murky
depths up to several rooms dug into the ground. One side of mountain peak was cut to its exterior.
Narrow perforated stone windows provided light and air to these pieces.

An old commander in charge of the sector, came to meet him, Desnoyers
thought he saw a head section of a department store in Paris.

His manners were exquisite, her soft voice seemed implore forgiveness at every word, as if addressing
a group of ladies offering the new art genres. But this impression only lasted a moment. The
gray-haired soldier lenses and myopic, he kept during the war, the gestures of a receiving plant
manager to his clients, was to move his arms in bandages and cotton inside their sleeves. He was
wounded in both wrists by a shell explosion, and yet still in place.

"Mr. Devil mellifluous and syrupy! - Thought Don Marcelo -. We must recognize that someone is.
"

Had entered the command post, a vast piece of light received by a horizontal window four meters
wide with only a ½ inch height. He seemed open space between two sheets of shade. Beneath it
lay a pine table full of papers, with several stools. Occupying one of these seats are covered
with eyes all over the plain. On the walls were electrical appliances, switchboards, and acoustic
speaker phones, many phones.

The commander pulled and gathered the papers, offering stools with the same gesture that being
in a classroom.

- Here, Senator.

Desnoyers, humble fellow, sat down beside her.

The commander looked like a director theater ready to show something special. Placed on the
table a huge role reproduced all the accidents of the plain extended before them: roads, villages,
fields, highlands and lowlands.

On this map appeared a triangular group of red lines as range. The apex was the site where they were,
the wide part of the boundary triangle the real horizon covering his eyes.

- We are going to shoot at the forest - pointing out the gunner said one end of the letter -.
Here is there - he continued, naming the horizon a small dark line -. You take the twins.

But before the two would support the edge of the eye in his eyebrows, the commander placed on the
map a new role.

It was a huge and slightly blurred photograph, on whose lines appeared embodied a range of lines
alike.

- Our airmen - the striker continued polite - have taken this morning some views enemy positions.
This is an extension of our workshop photo ... According to their reports, camped in the forest
are two German regiments.

Don Marcelo saw the stain on the picture of the forest and within
white lines contained roads, small groups were square blocks of houses
in a village.

Believed to be in an airplane looking at the land to a thousand feet high. Then she took the twins
to eyes in the direction of the red lines, and saw in the ring enlarged
lens of a black bar, something like a thick line of ink: the forest,
the refuge enemies.

- When you have, Senator, we will begin - the
commander said, arriving at last end of the pool -.

Are you soon? ...

Desnoyers smiled slightly. What was going to be soon his illustrious friend? What could serve voyeur
simple as him, and certainly excited by the newness of the show? ...

Rang out behind him a number of rings, called vibrations, vibrations that responded. Acoustic
tubes seemed to swell with the gallop of the words. The electric wire populated the silence
of the room with the beating of his mysterious life. The friendly chief and did not address
his people. You guessed it behind him at the mouth of a telephone conversation with his officers
to several miles away. The hero did not leave sweet and well spoken a time when his twisted courtesy.

-
Would you be kind enough to start the official said softly ?...-- far -. With much happy to inform
the order.

Don Marcelo felt a slight nervous tremor beside one of his legs. Lacour was anxiously for novelty.
I was about to start the fire would come up with something that had never seen. Cannons were
above their heads: the vault tremble as the deck of a ship when they
shoot on it.

The room, with its noise and vibration tubes phone was like the bridge
of a ship at the time of the rumpus.

The noise that was going to happen! ... It took a few seconds, they were very long ... Suddenly
a distant thunder seemed to come from the clouds.

Desnoyers felt no vibration nerve near his leg.

The senator moved to impulses of surprise, his expression seemed to say: "And this is all
?...»

The meters of land they had on them muffled explosions. The shot of a piece thick amounted
to a club on a mattress. More impressive was the cry of the projectile playing at a great
height, but displacing the air with such force that its waves lapped the window.

Hula ... fled, weakening its roar. Was not long before their effects
notasen.

The two friends came to believe that he was lost in space. "Do not come ... fails' thought.
Suddenly appeared on the horizon, just in the right place on the
blur Forest, a huge column of smoke, a rotating tower of black vapor,
followed by a volcanic explosion.

- What wrong with living there!
- Said the senator.

He and Desnoyers experienced a feeling of animal joy, a joy selfish, seeing in a safe place to several
meters below ground.

- The Germans are going to pull at any moment - said softly to his friend Don Marcelo.

The Senator was of the same opinion. Undoubtedly going to answer a duel artillery.

All French batteries had opened fire.

The mountain thundered ceaselessly is succeeded the roar of projectiles, the horizon, still
silent, was bristling of black twisted columns.

The two acknowledged that he was very good at this shelter likened to a theater stage ...

Someone knocked on the shoulder to Lacour. He was one of the captains who guided them through
the front.

- Come up - he said simply -. Must see up close how our guns. The show is worth it.

"Up? ... The character was perplexed, amazed, as if they proposed an interplanetary journey.
"Up, when enemies were about to answer from one moment to another?

...

The captain explained that Lieutenant Lacour was perhaps waiting for his father. Had warned
his phone battery, located one mile away: he must use the time to
see him.

They went back to the light through the opening of the subway. The senator had stood majestically.

"They
are going to throw - said a voice inside - and they will also answer the enemies."

But he adjusted his coat like a cloak tragic, and moved on, grave and solemn. If those men of
war, parliamentary opponents wanted to laugh secretly of emotions of a civilian, were being disappointed.

Desnoyers
admired the determination with which the great man was thrown out of the underground making same
as if you march against the enemy.

A few steps tore the atmosphere in tumultuous waves.

The two hesitated on feet, while his ears were buzzing and felt in the neck felt the impression
of a coup. They occurred while they had begun to throw the Germans. But theirs were the pulling.
A ball of wool of smoke emerged from the forest, to a dozen meters,
dissolving instantly.

Had shot a large caliber parts, concealed in the branches next to them. The captains were given
an explanation without stopping the pass. They had to keep ahead
of guns, suffering the violent sound of explosions, not to venture
into space discovered where was the watch-tower. Also they expected
from one moment to another the opposite response.

Which was next
to Don Marcelo congratulated him on the fearlessness with which the
cannon bore.

- My friend knows that - the senator said with pride
-. He was in the Battle of the Marne.

The two soldiers appreciated
with some astonishment the age of Desnoyers. What place had state?
What body belonged? ...

- I was a victim - said the aforementioned,
modestly.

An officer came running toward them on the side of the
tower for the space bare of trees. He repeatedly waved his kepi for
being seen better. Lacour trembled for him. Could distinguish the
enemy is offered as a target to cut recklessly open space with the
desire to arrive earlier. And even more shook him up close ... It
was René.

His hands oppressed with some strange strong hands, sinewy.
He saw the face of his child with the most noticeable features, obscured
by the patina of life setting. An air of resolution, confidence in
their own forces, it appeared to him. Six months of intense life had
changed. It was the same, but with broader chest, stronger wrists.
The soft and sweet features of the mother were lost under this male
mask. Lacour acknowledged with pride that seemed to him now.

After
the hugs of greeting, René Don Marcelo attended more regularly than
his father. I fancied him something in the scent of Chichi. Asked
her, wanted to know details of his life, in spite of the frequency
of his letters arrived.

The senator, meanwhile, moved by his recent
excitement, had taken an air oratorio addressing his son. You can get them
for an old song. The commissariat have been clearing out their stores, and there are a lot
of damaged biscuits to be sold, by auction, tomorrow. You would get twenty sacks for a few
shillings.

"That way you will get a good supply of eggs, if the siege lasts ever so long; and you can
fence off a bit of the garden, and raise fowls there. That will give you a supply of fresh
meat, and any eggs and poultry you can't eat yourselves you can sell for big prices. You could
get a chicken, three weeks ago, at threepence. Never mind if you have to pay a shilling for
them, now; they will be worth five shillings, before long.

"If you can rent another bit of garden, anywhere near, I would take it. If not, I would hire
three or four men to collect earth, and bring it up here. This is a good, big place; I suppose
it is thirty feet by sixty. Well, I would just leave a path from the door, there, up to this
end; and a spare place, here, for your chairs; and I would cover the rest of it with earth,
nine inches or a foot deep; and I would plant vegetables."

"Do you mane we are to grow cabbages here, Teddy?" Captain O'Halloran asked, with a burst of
laughter.

"No, I wouldn't grow cabbages. I would just grow mustard, and cress, and radishes. If you eat
plenty of them, they will keep off scurvy; and all you don't want for yourselves, I will guarantee
you will be able to sell at any price you like to ask for them and, if nobody else will buy
them, the hospitals will. They would be the saving of many a man's life."

"But they would want watering," Captain O'Halloran said, more seriously, for he saw how much
the doctor was in earnest.

"They will that. You will have no difficulty in hiring a man to bring up water, and to tend
to them and to look after the fowls. Men will be glad enough to work for next to nothing.

"I tell you, Gerald, if I wasn't in the service, I should hire every bit of land I could lay
hands on, and employ as many labourers as it required; and I should look to be a rich man,
before the end of the siege. I was speaking to the chief surgeon today about it; and he is
going to put the convalescents to work, on a bit of spare ground there is at the back of the
hospital, and to plant vegetables.

"I was asking down the town yesterday and I found that, at Blount's store, you can get as much
vegetable seed as you like. You lay in a stock, today, of mustard and cress and radish. Don't
be afraid of the expense--get twenty pounds of each of them. You will be always able to sell
what you don't want, at ten times the price you give for it now. If you can get a piece more
garden ground, take it at any price and raise other vegetables; but keep the top of the house
here for what I tell you.

"Well, I said nine inches deep of earth; that is more than necessary. Four and a half will
do for the radishes, and two is enough for the mustard and cress. That will grow on a blanket--it
is really only water that it wants."

"What do you think, Carrie?" Captain O'Halloran asked.

"Well, Gerald, if you really believe the siege is going to last like that, I should think that
it would be really worth while to do what Teddy Burke advises. Of course, you will be too busy
to look after things, but Bob might do so."

"Of course I would," Bob broke in. "It will give me something to do."

"Well, we will set about it at once, then. I will speak to the man downstairs. You know he
has got two or three horses and traps down in the town, and lets them to people driving out
across the lines; but of course he has nothing to do, now, and I should think that he would
be glad enough to arrange to look after the fowls and the things up here.

"The garden is a good size. I don't think anything could get out through that prickly pear
hedge but, anyhow, any gaps there are can be stopped up with stakes. I think it is a really
good idea and, if I can get a couple of hundred fowls, I will. I should think there was plenty
of room for them, in the garden. I will set up as a poultry merchant."

"You might do worse, Gerald. I will bet you a gallon of whisky they will be selling at ten
shillings a couple, before this business is over; and there is no reason in the world why you
should not turn an honest penny--it will be a novelty to you."

"Well, I will go down the town, at once," Gerald said, "and get the seeds and the extra stores
you advise, Teddy; and tomorrow I will go to the commissariat sale, and buy a ton or two of
those damaged biscuits. We will take another room from them, downstairs, as a storeroom for
that and the eggs; and I will get a carpenter to come up and put a fence, and make some runs
and a bit of a shelter for the sitting hens, and the chickens. Bob shall do the purchasing.

"You had better get a boy with a big basket to go with you, Bob; and go round to the cottages,
to buy up fowls. Mind, don't let them sell you nothing but cocks--one to every seven or eight
hens is quite enough; and don't let them foist off old hens on you--the younger they are, the
better. I should say that, at first, you had better take Manola with you, if Carrie can spare
her; then you won't get taken in, and you will soon learn to tell the difference between an
old hen and a young chicken."

"When you are buying the seed, O'Halloran," said Dr. Burke, "you would do well to get a few
cucumbers, and melons, and pumpkins. They will grow on the roof, splendidly. And you can plant
them near the parapet, where they will grow down over the sides, so they won't take up much
room; and you can pick them with a ladder. The pumpkin is a good vegetable, and the fowls will
thank you for a bit to pick, when you can spare one. They will all want manure, but you get
plenty of that, from the fowl yard."

"Why, Teddy, there seems no end to your knowledge," Mrs. O'Halloran said. "First of all, you
turn out to be a schoolmaster; and now you are a gardener, and poultry raiser. And to think
I never gave you credit for knowing anything, except medicine."

"You haven't got to the bottom of it yet, Mrs. O'Halloran. My head is just stored with knowledge,
only it isn't always that I have a chance of making it useful. I would be just the fellow to
be cast on a desert island. There is no saying what I wouldn't do towards making myself comfortable
there.

"But I do know about scurvy, for I made a voyage in a whaler, before I got His Majesty's commission
to kill and slay in the army; and I know how necessary vegetables are. I only wish we had known
what the Spaniards were up to, a month since. We would have got a cargo of oranges and lemons.
They would have been worth their weight in silver."

"But they wouldn't have kept, Teddy."

"No, not for long; but we would have squeezed them, and put sugar into the juice, and bottled
it off. If the general had consulted me, that is what he would have been after, instead of
seeing about salt meat and biscuits. We shall get plenty of them, from ships that run in--I
have no fear of that--but it is the acids will be wanting."

As soon as dinner was over, Captain O'Halloran went downstairs; and had no difficulty in arranging,
with the man below, for the entire use of his garden. An inspection was made of the hedge,
and the man agreed to close up all gaps that fowls could possibly creep through. He was also
quite willing to let off a room for storage, and his wife undertook to superintend the management
of the young broods, and sitting hens. Having arranged this, Captain O'Halloran went down into
the town to make his purchases.

A quarter of an hour later Bob started with Manola, carrying a large basket, and both were
much amused at their errand. Going among the cottages scattered over the hill above the town,
they had no difficulty in obtaining chickens and fowls--the former at about five pence apiece,
the latter at seven pence--such prices being more than double the usual rates. Manola's basket
was soon full and, while she was taking her purchases back to the house, Bob hired two boys
with baskets and, before evening, nearly a hundred fowls were running in the garden.

The next day Bob was considered sufficiently experienced to undertake the business alone and,
in two more days, the entire number of two hundred had been made up. Three of the natives had
been engaged in collecting baskets of earth among the rocks and, in a week, the terrace was
converted into a garden ready for the seeds. As yet vegetables, although very dear, had not
risen to famine prices; for although the town had depended chiefly upon the produce of the
mainland, many of the natives had grown small patches of vegetables in their gardens for their
own use, and these they now disposed of at prices that were highly satisfactory to themselves.

O'Halloran's farm--as they called it, as soon as they heard, from him, what he was doing--became
quite a joke in the regiment; but several of the other married officers, who had similar facilities
for keeping fowls, adopted the idea to some extent, and started with a score or so of fowls.

"I wonder you didn't think of pigs, O'Halloran," one of the captains said, laughing, as they
were talking over the farm in the mess anteroom; "pigs and potatoes. The idea of you and Burke,
both from the sod, starting a farm; and not thinking, first, of the two chief national products."

"There is not room for praties, Sinclair; and as for pigs, there are many reasons against it.
In the first place, I doubt whether I could buy any. In the second, there isn't room for them.
In the third, what should I give them to keep them alive? In the fourth, pigs are illigant
bastes but, in a hot country like this, I should not care for a stye of them under my drawing
room window. In the fifth--"

"That will do, that will do, O'Halloran. We give way. We allow that you could not keep pigs,
but it is a pity."

"It is that, Sinclair. There is nothing would please me better than to see a score of nice
little pigs, with a nate stye, and a magazine of food big enough to keep them, say, for a year."

"Three months, O'Halloran, would be ample."

"Well, we shall see, Sinclair. Teddy Burke says three years, but I do hope it is not going
to be as long as that."

"Begorra!" another Irish officer, Captain O'Moore, exclaimed; "if it is three years we are
going to be here, we had best be killed and buried at once. I have been all the morning in
the Queen's Battery, where my company has been slaving like haythens, with the sun coming down
as if it would fry your brain in your skull pan; and if that is to go on, day after day, for
three years, I should be dead in a month!"

"That is nothing, O'Moore. If the siege goes on, they say the officers will have to help at
the work."

"I shall protest against it. There is not a word in the articles of war about officers working. Humanity is changing course at this time. Now begins
the true civilization.

The next war was going to be, according to him, never seen brevity. Germany had prepared to make the
decisive without the economic life of the world suffered a long disturbance. A month was enough
to crush France, the most formidable of his opponents. Then march against Russia, which, slow in
their movements, could not oppose an immediate defense. Finally, England attack to the proud,
isolated in its archipelago, not to hinder further with its preponderance Germanic progress. This
series of rapid punches and wins caps just needed to develop the course of a summer. The falling
leaves greet in the autumn the final victory of Germany.

With the security of a professor who does not expect to be refuted by his hearers, explained the superiority
of the Germanic race. The men were divided into two groups: dolichocephalic and brachycephalic, according
to the conformation of his skull. Another scientific honor the men of hair parted and blond or black
hair. The dolichocephalic represented purity of race, superior mentality. Brachycephalics were mixed,
with all the stigmata of degeneration.

The Germans, dolichocephalic par excellence, was the sole heir of the original Aryans. All other
peoples, especially the South of Europe, called "Latinos", were a degenerate humanity.

The Spanish could not contain himself. But if these were old fashioned
theories of racism in no longer believed that any person moderately
enlightened!

If there was a pure people, because they all had one thousand mixes his blood after all historic
crossing!

... Many Germans had the same ethnic signs that the teacher attached to the inferior races.

- There is something that - he said Hartrott -. But while the Germanic race is not pure, is the least impure
of all, and it belongs to the government of the world.

His voice took a wry wit and sharp when talking about the Celts, inhabitants of the land South.
Had delayed the progress of humanity, throwing on a false course. The Celtic is individualistic, and
consequently, a revolutionary egalitarianism tends ungovernable. Furthermore, it is humanitarian and
compassion makes a virtue, defending the existence of the weak they are useless.

Germany puts the noble above all the order and strength. Chosen by Nature to send to the races
eunuchs, has all the virtues that distinguish leaders. The Revolution French was simply a clash
between Germans and Celts. The nobles of France were descended of German soldiers settled in the country
after the invasion of the barbarians call.

The bourgeoisie and the people representing the Gallo-Celtic element. Had overcome the inferior
race to the top, disrupting the country and disrupting the world. The celtic was the inventor of democracy,
the socialist doctrine of anarchy.

But going to sound the hour of revenge Germanic, and race nórtica return to restore order, and
that this had helped God preserve its indisputable superiority.

- A people - he said - can only aspire to great destinations whether it is essentially Germanic.
The less Germanic is, the less will be their civilization. We represent the aristocracy of humanity,
"the salt of the earth," as our William.

Argensola listened with astonishment these statements proud.

All major towns had passed through the mouth of imperialism. The Greeks aspired to hegemony,
to be the most civilized and believe the most likely to give civilization to the other men.
The Romans to conquer the land, to implement the law and the rules of justice. The French of the
Revolution and the Empire justified their invasion in the hope of
freedom to men and plant new ideas.

Until the sixteenth century Spanish, half the battle with Europe religious unity and the extermination
of heresy, worked for a great wrong, dark, but disinterested.

They moved in history for something that was considered generous and above their interests. Only
one teacher did Germany imposed on the world in the name of superiority of their race, superiority
that nobody had recognized him, which she attributed, giving their claims a veneer of pseudo-science.

-
Until now, wars have been soldiers - continued Hartrott -.

Which is now going to start will of soldiers and teachers. In preparing the University has taken such
a part as the staff. Science Germanic, first of all, is bound for ever to what Latino revolutionaries
contemptuously called militarism. The force, mistress of the world, is what creates the right,
which imposed our civilization, only real. Our Armies are representatives of our culture, and in a
few weeks off the Celtic world of decadence, rejuvenating.

The immense future race made him speak with lyrical enthusiasm.

William I, Bismarck, all the heroes of past victories, inspired him with reverence, but spoke
of them as dying gods, whose time had passed. They were glorious grandparents, claims modest
and was limited to expanding the frontiers, to achieve unity of the Empire, opposing then a
prudent valetudinarians to all the daring of the new generation. His ambitions never went beyond a continental
hegemony ... But then came William II, the hero complex that the country needed.

- My teacher Lamprecht - Hartrott said - has made a portrait of his greatness. It's tradition
and the future, order and daring. He is convinced that it represents the monarchy God's grace, like
his grandfather. But his vivid and bright intelligence recognizes and accept modern developments.
While romantic, feudal and supporter of the Conservatives agricultural, is a man of the day:
find out practical solutions and shows a utilitarian spirit, to the American. It balances the instinct
and reason.

Germany, led by the hero, had been gathering their forces and recognizing its true way. University
cheered even more enthusiastically than their hosts. What store so hard to keep aggression and
unemployed? ... The empire of the world belonged to the people Germanic. Historians and philosophers
were disciples of Treitschke to take charge of forging rights to
justify this world domination.

And Lamprecht, historian psychological launched, as the other teachers, the creed of the absolute
superiority of the Germanic race. It was just that dominate the world, and that she alone
has the strength.

This "Germanization telluric "would be of immense benefit for men. The land was to be happy
under domination of a people born to love. The German state power "tentacular" eclipse your
glory to the most illustrious empires of the past and present.

Gott mit uns (God is with us.)

- Who can deny that, as my teacher, there is a Germanic Christian God, the "Great Ally ", which
manifests itself to our foreign enemies as a strong and divinity jealous? ...

Desnoyers listened with astonishment to his cousin, looking at the same time to Argensola. This,
with the movement of their eyes, seemed to speak. "He's crazy - he said -. These Germans are
crazy of pride. "

Meanwhile, the professor, unable to contain his enthusiasm, was expounding the greatness of their
race.

Faith suffers eclipses even the higher spirits. For this reason the
providential kaiser had shown unexplained fainting.

It was too good and kind. "Deliciae generis humanity, "as Professor Lasson also Hartrott teacher.
Able with its immense power annihilated everything, merely to keep the peace. But the nation does
not want to stop, and pushed the driver had set in motion. The brakes useless. "Whoever not
move forward, backward ': such was the cry of Pan-Germanism the emperor. We had to go forward,
to conquer the whole earth.

- And the war is coming - continued -.

We need other colonies, as Bismarck, for error stubborn old age, did not require anything at the
time of the world total, leaving England and France took the best land. We need all belong
to Germany countries with Germanic blood and have been civilized by our ancestors.

Hartrott listed countries. Holland and Belgium were German. France was also Franks: a third
of his blood came from the Germans. Italy stopped here ...-- the teacher, remembering that
this country was an ally, indeed unsafe, but united yet the diplomatic engagements. However,
mention of the Lombards and other breeds from the north -. Spain and Portugal had been populated by
the Goth blonde, and also belonged to the Germanic race. And like most nations of America were
Hispanic or Portuguese origin, were included in this claim.

- It is too early to think about them - the doctor said modestly - but one day ring when justice.
After our continental triumph, we will have time to think on their luck ... North America should
also get our civilizing influence. There it millions of Germans, who have created their greatness.

He
spoke of future gains as if they were samples of distinction with which his country was to
favor the other peoples. They still live politically as before, with their own governments,
but subject to the direction of the Germanic race, such as lower they need the heavy hand of a master.
U.S. global form, with a president hereditary and powerful, the emperor
of Germany, receiving the benefits of culture Germanic, working under
his direction disciplined industrial ... But the world is ungrateful
and human evil is always opposed to any progress.

- We have no illusions
- the teacher said with haughty sadness -.

We have no friends. We all look with suspicion, as dangerous beings, because we are the most
intelligent, more active, and was higher than others ... But since
you do not love us, that we fear.

As my friend Mann, Kultur is the world's spiritual organization, but does not exclude "Bloody
savagery" when it is needed. The demonic sublimates Kultur that we have in us, and is above
morality, reason and science. We will impose Kultur to guns.

Argensola eyes continued to express his thought: "They are mad, mad with pride ... What awaits the world
with these people! "

Desnoyers intervened to clarify with some optimism to the bleak monologue. The war still had not
been declared, trading diplomacy.

Maybe they fix everything peacefully the last moment as had happened before. His cousin saw
things somewhat disfigured by an aggressive enthusiasm.

The wry smile, ferocious, cutting the doctor! ... Argensola did not know the old Madariaga, and yet
he thought that should smile and sharks, but had never seen a shark.

- It's war - said Hartrott -.

When I left Germany a fortnight ago, I knew that the war was near.

Security said that dispels all hopes of July. Moreover, he worried about the journey of this
man under the pretext of seeing his mother, which had separated shortly before ... What had
come to do in Paris, Dr. Julius von Hartrott? ...

- Then - asked Desnoyers - why so many diplomatic interviews?

Why intervene the German government, however feebly, in the conflict between Austria and Serbia?
... Did not would be better to openly declare war?

The professor answered simply:

- Our government certainly wants to be the others that declare.

The paper attacked is always the most gratifying and justifies all subsequent resolutions that
seem extreme. There we have people who live well and do not want war. Is convenient to believe
that are the enemies that we impose it, so they feel the need to
defend themselves.

Only higher spirits come to the conviction that only the great strides performed with the sword, and
war, as our great Treitschke said, is the highest way of progress.

Smiled again with a fierce expression. The moral, he said, should exist between individuals, as it
serves to make them more obedient and disciplined. But morality hinders governments and should be
deleted as an unnecessary obstruction. For such a state there is no truth or falsehood: only
recognizes the desirability and utility of things. The glorious Bismarck, to get war with France,
the basis of German greatness, had not hesitated to forge an office telegraph.

- And recognize that it is the greatest hero of our times. History looks kindly his achievement.
Who can accuse the triumphs? ... Professor Hans Delbruck has written reason: "Blessed is the hand
that forged the Ems telegram!"

It was fitting that the war arose immediately, now that the circumstances were favorable for Germany
and its enemies lived neglected. Preventive war was recommended by the General Bernhardi and
other illustrious compatriots. It was dangerous to wait for the enemies were prepared and were
they who declare. Also, what obstacles represented for German law, and other fictions invented
by the weak peoples to sustain in their misery? ... They had the strength, and force creates
new laws. If you were victorious History does not ask them accountable for what they had done.
It was Germany who beat and the priests of all religions would eventually sanctify his holy
war hymns, if that led to victory.

- We do not make war to punish the Serbs to regicide, or for free
to the Poles and other oppressed people of Russia, then resting in
the awe of our magnanimity disinterested.

We do it because we are the first people on earth and we must extend our activity on the planet.
The time has come to Germany. Let us take our site director of world power, as in other centuries
occupied Spain, and France then and England today.

What these people reached with a preparation of many years what we get in four months. The storm
flag is going to walk the Empire seas and nations: the sun light mass killings ... Ancient Rome,
sick unto death, surname of Germanic barbarians who opened the pit. Also smells of dead world
now, and probably will call us barbarians ... Sea! When Tangier and Toulon, Antwerp and Calais,
are subjected to the barbaric Germanic, and talk about it more carefully ... We force, which
has not discussed or ignore words ... The power!

This is what beautiful: the only word that sounds bright and clear ... The power! Accurate punches,
and all arguments are answered.

- But you are so sure of victory?
- Asked Desnoyers -.

Sometimes, the destination offers terrible surprises. There are unseen forces which we do not
upset the plans and better.

The doctor's smile was now a sovereign contempt.

Everything was planned and studied long time, with the meticulous
method Germanic.

What did they face?

... The most formidable enemy was France, unable to withstand the enervating moral influences,
the sufferings, efforts and privations of war, a physically weakened people, poisoned by the revolutionary
spirit, and had been ignoring the use of weapons by a love being
exaggerated.

- Our general - continued - going to leave in such a
state, never dare to cross on our way.

Russia remained, but the amorphous masses were slow to assemble and difficult to move. The State
Berlin Mayor had arranged everything timed to the crushing of France
in four weeks, then taking huge forces against the Russian Empire,
before he could begin his action.

- Will end with the bear after
having killed the rooster - the teacher said victoriously.

But guessing
an objection from his cousin, he hastened to continue:

- I know what
you're going to say. Is another enemy, one that has not yet jumped
into the arena, but we await all Germans. This inspires more hatred
than the others because it is our blood, because he is a traitor to
the race ... Ah, how I hate!

And the tone in which he said these
words throbbed an expression of hatred and revenge that impressed
them both listeners.

- Although England will attack - continued Hartrott
- why not let expire. This is no more formidable opponent than the
others. A century ago who reigns over the world. You certainly have stuck at it well; and you have
not got into a single scrape since you came out, which is a deal more than I expected of you."

"Besides, you see, Gerald, if I had not made up my mind to stick to uncle's business, I might
have been on board the Brilliant now, with Jim Sankey; and I think, after my giving up that
chance, it would be only fair that I should be allowed to have a cruise, now that there is
such a splendid opportunity."

"Well, Bob, I will do my best to persuade Carrie to let you go; but as far as you are concerned,
you know, she is commanding officer."

Bob laughed, for he knew well enough that, not only in that but in all other matters, his sister
generally had her own way.

"Well, I am very much obliged to you, Gerald. I am sure I should enjoy it, awfully."

"Don't thank me too soon, Bob. You have your sister to manage yet."

"Oh, we ought to be able to manage her, between us!" Bob said, confidently. "Look how you managed
to have Dr. Burke for me, and you know how well that turned out."

"Yes, that was a triumph, Bob. Well, we will do our best."

"Why, Bob, where have you been all the morning?" his sister said. "The professor came at ten
o'clock. He said he had arranged with you that he should be an hour later than usual, as he
had another engagement, early."

"I forgot all about him, Carrie. He never came into my mind once, since breakfast. I met Captain
Lockett down in the town, as soon as I went out, and I wanted him to come here to dinner. I
knew you would be glad to see him, for you said you liked him very much; but he said he should
be too busy, but he is coming up to supper, at seven. Then I went on board the Antelope and
had a chat with his cousin Joe, who is first mate now."

When dinner was finished, Bob said:

"Don't you think, Carrie, I am looking pale? What with the heat, and what with my sticking
in and working so many hours a day, I begin to feel that it is too much for me."

His sister looked anxiously at him.

"Well, Bob, you are looking a little pale, but so is everybody else; and no wonder, with this
heat. But I have not been noticing you, particularly. What do you feel, Bob?"

"I think Bob feels as if he wants a holiday," Captain O'Halloran put in.

"Well, then, we must tell the professor that we don't want him to come, for a bit. Of course,
Teddy Burke has given up coming, already.

"But if you have a holiday, Bob, what will you do with yourself?"

"I don't think I shall get any better here, Carrie. I think I want change of air."

"Nonsense, Bob! You can't be as bad as all that; and you never said anything about it, before.

"If he is not well, you must ask Teddy Burke to come up to see him, Gerald. Besides, how can
he have change of air? He had gone there to make the same
plea! ... He fled, recognizing the futility of his effort.

When he returned in despair to his property, found large cars and men on horseback, walked on the
path to form very long convoy. Followed the same direction as him. Entering in the park, a group
of Germans was laying the wires of a telephone line. Ended passed through the room in disarray
and laughed heartily reading the inscription drawn by Captain von Hartrott: 'Please do not loot
... "They found it very clever farce, very Germanic.

The convoy invaded the park. Cars and vans carrying a red cross. A hospital Blood was going to
settle in the castle. The doctors, dressed in green and armed the same The official cutting imitated
his haughtiness, his repellent stiffness. Out of the vans Hundreds of folding beds, lining up
in different pieces, the furniture that remained were thrown in a heap at the foot of the
trees. Groups of soldiers obeyed promptly mechanical and compelling short orders. A drugstore
perfume, concentrated drug is spread through the house, mingling with the strong smell of antiseptic
had spray the walls to remove waste from the orgy night. He saw women dressed after white, blue-eyed
Bouncers hemp hair. They looked serious, hard, austere, implacable.
Desnoyers repeatedly throwing like he did not see it.

"So he may here, Carrie, if a ball happens to come the right way.

"I think Bob certainly deserves a reward for the way he has stuck to his lessons. You know
you never expected he would do as he has done; and I am sure his uncle would be delighted,
if he heard how well he speaks Spanish.

"As to his health, the boy is well enough; but there is no denying that this hot weather we
are having takes it out of us all, and that it would be a mighty good thing if every soul on
the Rock had the chance of a month's cruise at sea, to set him up.

"But seriously, Carrie, I don't see any reason, whatever, why he should not go. We didn't bring
the boy out here to make a mollycoddle of him. He has got to settle down, some day, in a musty
old office; and it seems to me that he ought to have his share in any fun and diversion that
he has a chance of getting at, now. As to danger, sure you are a soldier's wife; and why shouldn't
he have a share of it, just the same as if he had gone into the navy? You wouldn't have made
any hullabaloo about it, if he had done that.

"This is Bob's good time, let him enjoy it. You are not going to keep a lad of his age tied
to your apron strings. He has just got the chance of having two or three years of fighting,
and adventure. It will be something for him to talk about, all his life; and my opinion is,
that you had best let him go his own way. There are hundreds and hundreds of lads his age knocking
about the world, and running all sorts of risks, without having elder sisters worrying over them."

"Very well, Gerald, if you and Bob have made up your minds about it, it is no use my saying
no. I am sure I don't want to make a mollycoddle, as you call it, of him. Of course, uncle
will blame me, if any harm comes of it."

"No, he won't, Carrie. Your uncle wants the boy to be a gentleman, and a man of the world.
If you had said that a year ago, I would have agreed with you; but we know him better, now,
and I will be bound he will like him to see as much life as he can, during this time. He has
sent him out into the world.

"I will write to your uncle, myself, and tell him it is my doing entirely; and that I think
it is a good thing Bob should take every chance he gets, and that I will answer for it that
he won't be any the less ready, when the time comes, for buckling to at business."

"Well, if you really think that, Gerald, I have nothing more to say. You know I should like
Bob to enjoy himself, as much as he can; only I seem to have the responsibility of him."

"I don't see why you worry about that, Carrie. If he had gone out to Cadiz or Oporto, as your
uncle intended, you don't suppose the people there would have troubled themselves about him.
He would just have gone his own way. You went your own way, didn't you? And it is mighty little
you troubled yourself about what your uncle was likely to say, when you took up with an Irishman
in a marching regiment; and I don't see why you should trouble now.

"The old gentleman means well with the boy but, after all, he is not either his father or his
mother. You are his nearest relation and, though you are a married woman, you are not old enough,
yet, to expect that a boy of Bob's age is going to treat you as if you were his mother, instead
of his sister. There is not one boy in fifty would have minded us as he has done."

"Well, Bob, there is nothing more for me to say, after that," Carrie said, half laughing--though
there were tears in her eyes.

"No, no, Carrie; I won't go, if you don't like," Bob said, impetuously.

"Yes, you shall go, Bob. Gerald is quite right. It is better you should begin to think for
yourself; and I am sure I should like you to see things, and to enjoy yourself as much as you
can. I don't know why I should fidget about you, for you showed you had much more good sense
than I credited you with, when you gave up your chance of going to sea and went into uncle's
office.

"I am sure I am the last person who ought to lecture you, after choosing to run about all over
the world, and to take the risk of being starved here," and she smiled at her husband.

"You do as you like, Bob," she went on. "I won't worry about you, in future--only if you have
to go back to England without a leg, or an arm, don't blame me; and be sure you tell uncle
that I made as good a fight against it as I could."

And so it was settled.

"By the way," Bob exclaimed, presently, "I have got a letter from uncle to you, in my pocket;
and one for myself, also. Captain Lockett gave them to me this morning, but I forgot all about
them."

"Well, you are a boy!" his sister exclaimed.

"This is a nice sample, Gerald, of Bob's thoughtfulness.

"Well, give me the letter. Perhaps he writes saying you had better be sent home, by the first
chance that offers itself."

Bob's face fell. He had, indeed, himself had some misgiving, ever since the troubles began,
that his uncle might be writing to that effect.

"Well, look here, Carrie," he said, "here is the letter; but I think you had better not open
it, till I have started on this cruise. Of course, if he says I must go back, I must; but I
may as well have this trip, first."

Carrie laughed.

"What do you think, Gerald, shall I leave it till Bob has gone?"

"No, open it at once, Carrie. If he does say, 'send Bob on by the first vessel,' there is not
likely to be one before he goes in the Antelope. Besides, that is all the more reason why he
should go for a cruise, before he starts back for that grimy old place in Philpot Lane. We
may as well see what the old gentleman says."

"I won't open mine till you have read yours, Carrie," Bob said. "I mean to go the cruise, anyhow;
but if he says I must go after that, I will go. If he had been the old bear I used to think
him, I would not mind it a snap; but he has been so kind that I shall certainly do what he wants."

Bob sat, with his hands deep in his pockets, watching his sister's face with the deepest anxiety
as she glanced through the letter; Gerald standing by, and looking over her shoulder.

Illustration: 'The old gentleman is a brick,' exclaimed Gerald.

"The old gentleman is a brick!" Gerald, who was the first to arrive at the end, exclaimed.
"I wish I had had such a sensible old relative, myself, but--barring an aunt who kept three
parrots and a cat, and who put more store on the smallest of them than she did on me--never
a relative did I have, in the world."

"Oh, tell me that afterwards!" Bob broke in.

"Do tell me what uncle says, Carrie."

His sister turned to the beginning again and read aloud:

"My dear niece--"

"Where does he write from?" Bob interrupted. "Is it from Philpot Lane, or from somewhere else?"

"He writes from Matlock, Derbyshire."

"That is all right," Bob said. "I thought, by what Gerald said, he could not have written from
Philpot Lane."

"My dear niece," Carrie began again, "I duly received your letter, saying that Bob had arrived
out safely; and also his more lengthy epistle, giving an account of the incidents of the voyage.
I should be glad if you would impress upon him the necessity of being more particular in his
punctuation, as also in the crossing of his t's and the dotting of his i's. I have also received
your letter bearing date June 1st; and note, with great satisfaction, your statement that he
has been most assiduous in his studies, and that he is already able to converse with some fluency
in Spanish.

"Since that time the state of affairs between the two countries has much occupied my attention--both
from its commercial aspect, which is serious, and in connection with Bob. As the issue of a
declaration of war is hourly expected, as I write, the period of uncertainty may be considered
as over, and the two countries may be looked upon as at war. I have reason to congratulate
myself upon having followed the advice of my correspondent, and of having laid in a very large
supply of Spanish wine; from which I shall, under the circumstances, reap considerable profits. When all fled to Paris, he needed to go in the opposite direction. The Senator could
not believe my ears.

- Are you crazy! - He said -. You have to leave Paris, but toward the south. You I say only,
Calella, because it is a secret. We leave at any moment, all we go: the president, the government,
"Chambers. We settle in Bordeaux, as in 1870. The enemy is going to get there: it is a matter
of days ... of hours. We know little of what happens, but all news is bad. The military remains
firm, remains intact, but is removed ... removed, giving way ... Believe me, it's best to leave
Paris. Gallieni will defend, but the defense is going to be hard and painful ... Although falling Paris,
why not drop France. Continue war if necessary to the border of Spain
... But this is sad, very sad!

And he offered to his friend take him in the retreat of Bordeaux,
that few knew in that time.

Desnoyers shook his head. No, he wanted to go to the castle of Villeblanche.

Its furniture ... their wealth ... park.

- But are you going to fall prisoner! - Protested the senator -. Maybe kill him!

A shrug was the answer. Energies are considered to combat all German armies defending their property.
The important thing was installed in it, and anyone who dared to touch yours! ... The senator looked
in amazement to this bourgeois rage by the sense of possession. He remembered the Arab merchants,
humble and peaceful ordinarily, who fight and die like beasts when they're taking over the
Bedouin thieves of their gender.

The moment was not for discussion, everyone should think about their own fate. The senator finally
given the desire of his friend. If such was his pleasure, could accomplish. And got to his influence
that come out that night on a military train that went to meet the army.

This trip was contacted Don Marcelo with extraordinary movement that the war had developed on the
railway. His train took fourteen hours to save a run away two normally. It consisted of boxcars
full of food and ammunition, with doors closed and sealed. A third car was occupied by the escort
of the train: territorial firing.

In a second-Desnoyers was installed, with the lieutenant who commanded this group and several officers
who were to join their regiments after completing mobilization operations manned populations before
the war. Wagons tail containing their horses.

The train stopped many times to give way to others who are full of soldiers put through or returned
to Paris with crowds fugitive. The latter consisted of platforms load, and they huddle together women,
children, seniors, mixed with bundles of clothes, bags and trucks that had served to bring to
the station all that remained their outfits.

Camps were like trailers that are immobile for many hours and even days in the sidings, allowing
free passage to convoys driven by the pressing needs of war. The crowd, accustomed to endless
detentions, overflowed outside train locomotive facilities with dead or scattered by the immediate
field.

At stations of any importance, all avenues were occupied by strings of wagons. The machines, high
pressure to, whistled, eager to leave. Groups of soldiers doubted to the various trains, mistakenly
went down a few cars to be installed in others. Employees, calmly and with an air of fatigue,
going from one side to the other leading to men, giving explanations, having the burden of
mountains of objects. In the convoy carrying Desnoyers to the territorial dozing, accustomed
to the monotonous operation to escort. The charge of the horses had opened the sliding doors
of the cars, sitting on the edge with his legs dangling. The train was going slowly at night,
through shadow fields, stopping at the red lights to warn its presence long whistles. In some
stations had girls dressed in white with ribbons and flags on the chest. Day and night were
there, replaced, not to pass a train without receiving your check.

In baskets and trays offered their gifts to the soldiers, bread, chocolate, fruit. Many, for
fill, tried to resist, but finally had to cede before the frown of the youngsters. To Desnoyers found
himself assaulted by these gifts of patriotic enthusiasm.

He spent much of the night talking with your fellow travelers. The officers were only vague
indications of where they could find their regiments. The operations of the war changed daily situation.
But faithful to duty, went forward, hoping to reach time for the decisive battle. The head of
the convoy had made several trips and was the only one who realized exact withdrawal. Every
time the train was a trip lower. Everyone seemed disoriented. Why withdrawal? ... The army had
suffered setbacks sure, but it was whole, and in his opinion should
seek revenge in the same places.

The retreat left open the enemy's advance. How far would he go back? ... They discussed two weeks
earlier point in their garrisons in Belgium where they would receive adversaries the fatal blow
and why more troops would invade Germany victorious! ...

His disappointment showed no discouragement.

An undetermined but firm hope emerged on their hesitation: Generalissimo was the only one who possessed
the secret of the events. And Desnoyers approved, with the blind enthusiasm which inspired the people
when deposited in them their confidence. Joffre! ... The leader serious and calm it all out eventually.
Nobody should doubt his fortune was of men who say the last word.

At dawn he left the car.

"Good luck." And shook the hands of those young, enthusiastic that maybe they were going to die
soon. The train could be on their way immediately to find free road accident, and Don Marcelo
was seen only in one season. In normal time left it a secondary rail Villeblanche passing by,
but the service was suspended because of staff shortages. The employees had gone to the great
lines, crowded by transport of war.

Vain sought, with the most generous offers, a horse, a cart pulled simple either by a beast,
to continue his journey. The mobilization was monopolizing the best, and other means of transport had
disappeared with the flight of the cowards. Had to do to walk a march of ten miles. The old
man did not hesitate: go!

And he began to walk a white road, straight, dusty plains and equal between that lined up infinity.
Some groups of trees, some green hedges and the roofs of several farms alter the monotony of the
landscape. The fields were covered with crop stubble recent. Haystacks puffed the ground with
their yellow cones, which were beginning to darken taking an oxidized gold tone. At the billboard
shaking birds fluttering spray dawn.

The first rays of the sun announced a hot day. Around the barns saw Desnoyers a flurry of people
who stood up, shaking his clothes and waking up to yet other asleep. Were fugitives who had
camped near the station, waiting a train to take them away, not knowing for sure where they wanted
to go. Some came from distant departments had heard the cannon, had been approaching war, and
carried several days of walking at random. Others, feeling the contagion of this panic, had fled
also, fearing know the horrors ... He saw mothers with small arms; old sore that could only
move with one hand on the stick and another in the arm any of his family crones and motionless
as mummies, lying asleep and traveled in a wheelbarrow.

On waking the sun to this wretched throng looked at each other with stiff gait, stiff even at
night, retracing the same groups the day before. Many advanced towards the station with the hope
of a train that never came to be formed, believed to be more happy on the day was born. Some
continued their way along the tracks, thinking that it would be more conducive luck elsewhere.

Don
Marcelo walked all morning. The white ribbon of road was straight and mottled groups that came
to him in the distance like a string of ants. No one saw Walker to
continue the same direction.

All were fleeing to the South, and to find this lord of the city, which was fine footwear, walking
stick and a straw hat, made a gesture of surprise. I thought maybe an officer, a character,
someone from the government, to see him go it alone to the country they left to impulses of
terror.

At noon he could find a piece of bread, some cheese and a bottle of white wine a tavern on the
road immediately. The owner was in the war, she was moaning in bed. The mother, a rather deaf
old, surrounded by her grandchildren, was at the door this parade
fugitives lasted three days.

"Why run away, sir?" - Said the traveler -. The war only interest to the soldiers. We country people
do not do evil to no one and nothing to fear. "

Four hours later, dropping one of the slopes that form the valley of the Marne, he saw what Villeblanche
away roofs around his church, and emerging from a grove of shale caps finished off the turrets
of the castle.

The village streets were deserted. Just around the square sit saw some women, as in other summers placid
evenings. Half the neighborhood had fled; the other half remained in their homes, sedentary
routine, fooling with blind optimism. If the Prussians arrived, what could they do to them? ...
Obey his orders without attempting any resistance, due to a people who can not punish him ...
Everything was better before to lose some houses built by their ancestors and who had never left.

In
the square he saw, forming a group, the mayor and the principal inhabitants. These, and and
women, watched with amazement the owner of the castle. It was the most unexpected occurrences.
When so many fled to Paris, the Parisian came to join them, sharing their fate. A smile of affection,
a look of sympathy, appeared through its rough bark of rustic suspicious. Desnoyers had long
lived on bad terms with entire people. Roughly maintained their rights, make allowance in
property matters. He spoke many times to process the mayor and send to prison half the neighborhood,
and answered his enemies treacherously invaded their lands, killing their game, overwhelming
legal claims and lawsuits with incoherent ... His hatred of the town
had approximately the priest, to live it in open hostility against
the mayor.

But his relations with the Church were as unsuccessful as their struggles with the state.
The priest was a good-natured, the they found some resemblance to Renan, who only get worried
alms for the poor, bringing its kind to excuse daring marauders of
your property.

How far now the struggle seemed held up to a month before! ... Millionaire experienced a great surprise
to see how the priest, leaving his house to enter the church, passing the mayor greeted with
a friendly smile.

After long years of hostile silence had been found on the afternoon of January. St August at
the foot of the tower of the church.

The bell sounded the alarm to announce mobilization the men who were in the fields. And the
two enemies, instinctively, had narrowed hand. All French! It also unanimously find out loving
the hated lord of the castle. Had to say hello to one side to another, shaking hands hard. People
broke out behind him in loving corrections. "A good man, with no default the violence of his
character ... "And Mr. Desnoyers met for a few minutes the pleasant popularity environment.

Finding
himself in the castle as well spent given the fatigue of travel, that shook their legs. She
had never seemed so big and majestic as the park this evening of summer, never as white swans
glided, double by the reflection on water dead, never so stately building, whose image repeated
inverted mirror of the green pits. Felt the need to immediately see the cattle barns with their
animals, then He glanced at the empty blocks. The mobilization had
taken their best horses of work.

Staff also had disappeared. The charge of the work and several boys were in the military. Throughout
the castle there was only the caretaker, a man over fifty years, sick of the chest, with his family,
consisting of his wife and daughter. The three tended to fill the stalls of cows, milking now
and then forgotten their udders.

Inside the building again to welcome the resolution that had dragged there. How to give up
such riches! ... Looked at the tables, cabinets, furniture, the curtains, all bathed in gold by the glow
dying day, and felt proud possession. This value instilled pride absurd, improbable, as if it were
a being giant from another planet and all mankind around him a simple
anthill I could clear with his feet.

That should come enemies! It was considered strong enough defend all of them ... Then, to snatch
the reason for his heroic frenzy, tried to calm also lacks a solid optimism. Do not come. He
did not know why, but he announced the heart that the enemy would not reach there.

The next morning was spent touring the artificial grass that had formed behind Park, lamenting the
neglect that were by the departure of his men, trying to open gates
to give a watering grass, which was beginning to dry.

The vines align their mass of branches along the fences that served as support. Packed clusters,
coming to maturity, the leaves sticking out their triangles granules. Oh, who collect this wealth!
...

In the afternoon he noticed an extraordinary movement in the village. Georgette, the daughter of
the concierge, brought the news that began to go through the huge main street cars, many automobiles,
and French soldiers, many soldiers. Soon the parade was initiated by a immediate road to the
castle, leading to the bridge over the Marne. Trucks were closed open or still retained their
old commercial signs in the dust layer hardened and splashes of mud. Many of them hold diplomas
of the Paris business, others the corporate name of establishments in the provinces. And together
with these vehicles requisitioned by the mobilization took another from the public service,
causing Desnoyers in the same effect as some friendly faces in a crowd glimpsed unknown. Paris
buses were still kept in top names of his former indicators paths:
Madeleine-Bastille, Passy-Bourse, etc. Perhaps he had traveled many
times these vehicles, faded, aviejados twenty days of intense activity,
with plates dented, twisted irons, sounding as ramshackle and perforated
screens.

Some coaches sported white roundels with the center cut by the Red Cross, others had as a mark
letters and numbers that only the initiated could understand the secrets of military administration.
And in all these vehicles, new and retained only vigorous engines, saw soldiers, many soldiers,
but all injured, with head and bandaged legs, pale faces a beard made it even more tragic eyes Stare
fever, dilated mouths as if they have been frozen in the groan pain. Doctors and nurses occupied
several carriages of the train. Some platoons riders escorting him. Among the slow pace of
automobile frames and groups spent of soldiers on foot, with unbuttoned coat the back slope
or the same as a layer; wounded who could walk and joke and sing, some with an arm swaddled
on chest, another with his head bandaged, transparent through the oozing interior fabric of blood.

The
billionaire wanted to do something for them, but just tried to distribute
some bottles of wine, about bread, the first thing that came handy,
interposed a doctor, apostrophes as if committed a crime.

Your gifts could be fatal. And he had to stay on the edge of way, helpless, sad, dark eyes following
the convoy painful ... Closing the night and no vehicles were loaded with sick men who marched.
He saw hundreds truck, a sealed, with prudence imposed by explosives; some with bundles and
boxes scattered musty smell of food. Then moved large herds of oxen, which swirled in the
narrows of the road, moving forward on the stick and the cries of the shepherds to his vest.

He
spent the night awake by your thoughts. It was the withdrawal of people speaking in Paris, but many
refused to believe, the withdrawal coming up there and continuing to decline indefinite, because
nobody knew what was going to be your limit. The optimism suggested a hope unlikely. Maybe this
retreat included only hospitals, warehouses, all that is parked in
the rear of an army.

The troops wanted to be free of baggage, to move with more agility, and sent away by rail and
road. This was to be. And noise that persisted throughout the night just wanted to guess the pass carloads
of wounded, ammunition, food, equal to those who had marched afternoon.

Near dawn, fatigue made him fall asleep, and woke up late in the day. His first was looking for
the road. He saw it full of men and horses pulling trailers objects. But the men were carrying
guns and battalions, regiments. The beasts dragged artillery. It was an army ... was removed.

Desnoyers
ran to the edge of the road for better convinced of the truth.

Ay! Regiments were like those he had seen from stations in Paris ... but look very different.
The blue coats had become tattered clothes and yellowish red pants with a whitewashed brick color
undercooked; shoes were balls of clay. The face was fierce, with trails of dust and sweat in
all its cracks and crevices, with newly grown beard, sharp as pins,
with a gesture fatigue that revealed a desire to stop, to stay right
there forever, killing or dying, but go a step further.

Walking ... walking ... walked. Some marches had lasted thirty hours.

The enemy was on his tracks, and the order was walking and not battle, waged by the lightness
of feet outflanking attempted by the invader. The heads guessed the mood of his men. Could
require the sacrifice of his life, but marching orders day and night, always fleeing from the enemy
when not considered to be defeated, when they felt inside growl fierce anger, mother heroism!
... The looks of despair looking for the officer immediately to the chiefs, the Colonel himself.
They could not anymore! A huge place, stunned, in a few days, and for what? ... Superiors, who
knew the same thing they seemed to answer with his eyes, as if possessed a secret: "Courage!
Another effort ... This is going to end very soon. "

The beasts, vigorous, but devoid of imagination, resisted less than men. His appearance was deplorable.
How could they be the same horses strong and lustrous hair he had seen in parades in Paris
at the beginning of the month? A twenty year days had aged and exhausted. His eyes seemed
to implore mercy opaque. Were weak, with a thin edges that made their stand and increased bone
bulging their eyes.


"I was only thinking whether it would be possible for me to make my way there, and find out
what vessels there are in harbour, and whether any of them are likely to be coming this way.
But if it is ten miles, I am afraid it is too far. I should have to pass through villages;
and I might be questioned where I came from, and where I was going. I don't know that my Spanish
would pass muster, if I were questioned like that.

"I should be all right, if I were once in a seaport. No one would be likely to ask me any questions.
Then I could stroll about, and listen to what was said and, certainly, I could talk quite well
enough to go in and get a meal, and all that sort of thing."

"I couldn't let you do that, Bob," the captain said. "It is a very plucky idea, but it wouldn't
be right to let you carry it out. You would get hung as a spy, if you were detected."

"I don't think there is the least fear in the world of my being detected, in a seaport," Bob
said, "and I should think it great fun; but I shouldn't like to try to cross the country. Perhaps
we may have a better chance, later on."

The captain shook his head.

"You might go on board some ship, if one brings up at anchor anywhere near us, Bob. If you
got detected, there, we would take her and rescue you. But that is a different thing to letting
you go ashore."

Presently the sails of two fishing boats were seen, coming out from beyond a low point, three
miles to the east.

"I suppose there is a fishing village, there," the mate said. "I am glad they are no nearer."

He examined the boats with a glass.

"They are working out with sweeps. I expect they hope to get a little wind, when they are in
the offing."

Just as they were at breakfast the second mate, who was on deck, called down the skylight:

"There are three craft to the west, sir. They have just come out from behind the point there.
They are bringing a little breeze with them."

"What are they like, Mr. Crofts?"

"One is a polacre, another a xebec, and the third looks like a full-rigged craft; but as she
is end on, I can't say for certain."

"All right, Mr. Crofts! I will be up in five minutes. We can do nothing until we get the wind,
anyhow."

Breakfast was speedily finished, and they went on deck. The Spanish flag was already flying
from the peak. The three craft were about two miles away.

"How are they sailing, Mr. Crofts?"

"I fancy the xebec is the fastest, sir. She was astern just now, and she is abreast of the
polacre now, as near as I can make out. The ship, or brig--whichever it is--seems to me to
be dropping astern."

"Heave away at the anchor, Joe. Get in all the slack, so as to be ready to hoist, as soon as
the breeze reaches us. I don't want them to come up to us. The line they are taking, now, will
carry them nearly half a mile outside us, which is fortunate. Run in six of the guns, and throw
a tarpaulin over the eighteen pounder. Three guns, on each side, are about enough for us to show."

The breeze caught them when the three Spanish craft were nearly abeam.

"They have more wind, out there, than we shall have here," the captain said; "which is an advantage,
for I don't want to run away from them.

"Now, get up the anchor, Joe. Don't take too many hands."

The watch below had already been ordered to sit down on the deck, and half the other watch
were now told to do the same.

"Twelve or fourteen hands are quite enough to show," the captain said.

"The anchor's up, sir," Joe shouted.

"Let it hang there. We will get it aboard, presently.

"Now haul that fore-staysail across, ease off the spanker sheet.

"Now, as she comes round, haul on the braces and sheets, one by one. Do it in as lubberly a
way as you can."

The brig, which had been riding with her head to the west, came slowly round; the yards being
squared in a slow fashion, in strong contrast to the active way in which they were generally
handled. The captain watched the other craft, carefully.

"The xebec and polacre are gaining on us, but we are going as fast through the water as the
three master. When we get the wind a little more, we shall have the heels of them all.

"Get a sail overboard, Joe, and tow it under her port quarter. Don't give her too much rope,
or they might catch sight of it, on board the ship. That will bring us down to her rate of sailing.

"I want to keep a bit astern of them. We dare not attack them in the daylight; they mount too
many guns for us, altogether. That big fellow has got twelve on a side, the polacre has eight,
and the xebec six, so between them they have fifty-two guns. We might try it, if they were
well out at sea; but it would never do, here. There may be galleys or gunboats within hearing,
so we must bide our time.

"I think we are in luck, this time, Joe. That ship must have come foreign; at least, I should
say so by her appearance, though she may be from Cadiz. As to the other two, they may be anything.
The xebec, no doubt, is a coast trader. The polacre may be one thing, or another, but I should
hardly think she has come across the Atlantic. Likely enough she is from Bilbao or Santander.
The ship is the fellow to get hold of, if we get a chance. I shall be quite content to leave
the others alone."

"I should think so," Joe agreed. "The ship ought to be a valuable prize, wherever she comes
from. If she is sound, and pretty new, she would fetch a good sum, if we can get her into an
English port."

The wind continued to hold light, and the four vessels made but slow progress through the water.
The two leaders, however, gradually improved their position. They were nearly matched, in point
of sailing; and their captains were evidently making a race of it, hoisting every stitch of
canvas they were able to show. By the afternoon they were fully two miles ahead of the ship,
which was half a mile on the starboard bow of the brig.

The wind died away to nothing, as the sun set. The three Spanish vessels had all been edging
in towards shore, and the polacre anchored just before sunset. The ship held on for another
hour, but was a mile astern of the other two when she, also, dropped her anchor.

The sail, that had been towing overboard from the brig, had been got on board again when the
wind began to drop; and she had come up to within little more than a quarter of a mile of the
ship. The anchor was let go, as soon as it was seen that the crew of the ship were preparing
to anchor, so that the brig should be first to do so. Whether there had been any suspicions,
on board the Spaniards, as to the character of the brig, they could not tell but, watching
her closely, Captain Lockett saw that the order to anchor was countermanded, as soon as it
was seen that the brig had done so.

A few minutes after the men again went forward, and the anchor was dropped; for the vessel
was making no way whatever, through the water. To stroll with Argensola had to squeeze through the service
stairs and take advantage of other tricks of college.

Mr. Desnoyers had never gone so pleased with the streets of Paris as the side This strapping
young man with his cloak of glorious old age and chest enhanced by two awards: the Croix de
Guerre and the Military Medal. He was a hero and this hero was his son. Looks sympathetic to
the public on the trams and the Underground Railroad accepted them as a tribute to both. Interesting
glimpses of the women threw the good waiter produced a tickling vanity and anxiety. All military
was, for more gallons and cross-bearing, seemed "ambushed" unworthy to be compared with July. The
wounded descended from the cars leaning on sticks and crutches will inspire a sense of sorry
humiliating for them. Woe! ... They had the fate of his son. A does not who had killed him,
and when by chance he received a wound, his remains were erased immediately, without detriment
to the grace of his person.

Sometimes, especially at night, showed an unexpected magnanimity, leaving Just come out in July.
He remembered his youth winner in love, which had many successes achieved before the war. Now do
not get your prestige brave soldier! ... Walking through the bedroom before bed, he imagined
the hero in the pleasant company a great lady. Only a female celebrity was worthy of him, his paternal
pride not accept less ... And it never could happen Argensola Julio was with a music-hall,
in a cinema, enjoying the simple pleasures of the monotonous and overshadowed by Paris war,
with the simplicity of taste of a second lieutenant, and that in point of loving his success
good fortune did not extend beyond the renewal of some old friendships.

One afternoon, when he walked beside her down the Champs Elysees, shuddered when she saw a
lady coming in the opposite direction. Was Mrs. Laurier ... Do recognize July? Thought perceive that it
was becoming pale, turning his eyes to other people affected distraction. She continued, upright,
indifferent. The old almost irritated at such coldness. Pass with his son without the instinct
let him know his presence! Ah, women! ... Turned head to follow her, but immediately had to
withdraw its hint. Was surprised Marguerite still behind them, with the pallor of surprise, staring
deep in the military going away. Don Marcelo felt read in his eyes the admiration, love, everything
past suddenly resurfaced in his memory. Poor girl ... Affection felt for her paternal, as
if the wife of July. Lacour his friend had returned to talk of marriage Laurier. Margarita knew was
going to be a mother. And the old, regardless of reconciliation of the spouses or the passage of
time, he was excited about this motherhood, as if his son had taken part in it.

Meanwhile, Julio was going, without turning his head, unaware of this look fixed on the back,
pale and humming to conceal his emotion. And he knew nothing. Continued believe that Margaret
had passed by him without knowing, for the old silent.

One of the concerns of Don Marcelo was to ensure that your child tells of the meeting war who
had been wounded.

No visitor came to his house to see the sergeant, without leave the
old man making the same request:

- Tell us how you hurt ... Explain
how you killed the German captain.

July apologized with visible discomfort. I was tired of their own
history.

To please his father had done the story before the Senate, to Argensola and Tchernoff in their
study, to other family friends who had come to see him ... I could
not more.

And the father was rushing the story on their own, giving relief and
details of an event seen with his own eyes.

Had to take over the ruins of a sugar refinery in front of the trench. The Germans had been expelled
by the French cannonade. Recognition was needed, guided by an insurance man. And the chiefs
were appointed, as always, Sergeant Desnoyers.

At daybreak, the platoon had advanced cautiously, without hindrance. Soldiers scattered throughout
the ruins. July was only until the end of them, for the purpose of examining the positions of
the enemy, when, turning to an angle of wall, was the most unexpected encounters. A German
captain was facing him. They had almost struck the around the corner. They looked into the
eyes, with more surprise than hatred, while seeking kill by instinct,
trying to win each other in speed.

The captain had released the letter of the country in his hands. His right hand sought his revolver,
struggling out of the case, without for a moment his eyes of the enemy. Then gave up, convinced
that this movement was useless. Too late. Her eyes, wide open for the proximity of death, followed
in the French fixed. This had thrown the gun to face. A shot from close range ... and the
German fell round.

Only then looked at the captain's orderly, who was walking a few steps
behind him.

The soldier fired his rifle against Desnoyers, wounding him in the shoulder. Came the French,
killing ordinance. Then crossed a live enemy fire with the company, which had beyond high as his head
was exploring the terrain.

July, in spite of the wound, continued in front of his section, defending the plant against
superior forces until finally aid arrived and the ground was definitely in the hands of the French.

-
Was it not so, my son? - Ended Don Marcelo.

The son nodded, wishing I had done a story as soon as possible annoyed
by their persistence.

Yes, they had been. But what his father knew what he would not say never, was the discovery
I had done after killing the captain.

The two men, looking face to face for a second that seemed an age, showed in their eyes more
than the surprise of the meeting and wish to be deleted. Desnoyers
known to man.

The captain, meanwhile, was known to him. I could tell in his gesture ... But each of them, with
the desire to kill to stay alive, could not muster memories.

Desnoyers fired with the certainty that he killed an acquaintance. Then, as directed the defense
of the position awaiting the arrival of reinforcements, he hit the suspect that that enemy whose
body was at a short distance could be a member of his family, one of the Hartrott. It seemed,
however, older than his cousins ​​and his much younger than Uncle Karl. This, with his years, was
not going to appear as a mere captain of infantry.

When, weakened by blood loss, could be driven to the trenches, the sergeant wanted to see the body
of your enemy. His doubts continued pales before the face of death. The eyes are open, seemed
to keep even the impression of surprise. This man knew him undoubtedly, he also knew that face.
Who was it?

... Suddenly, with his imagination saw the sea, saw a large ship, a tall blond woman who looked
at him with narrowed eyes, a burly, mustachioed man who made speeches in the style of the emperor.
"Rest in peace, Captain Erckmann. "It had come to end in a corner of France, discussions initiated
in the middle of the ocean.

Mentally apologized, as if in the presence of the sweet Bertha.

He had to kill to avoid being killed. That's war. He tried to console ourselves that such Erckmann
had fallen without identifying time, not knowing that his killer was a fellow traveler of months
before ... And kept secret in the depths of his memory this meeting prepared by the fatality.
Failed to inform his friend Argensola, who knew the incidents Atlantic
crossing.

When least expected, Mr. Marcelo was found at the end of that life of joy and pride that he had
given the presence of his son. Fifteen days pass quickly. The sergeant left, and the whole family,
after this period of realities, had to return to the caresses deceptive illusion and hope, waiting
for the arrival of letters, making guesses about the silence of the absent, sending package
after package with all that the trade offered to the military: useful things and absurd.

The mother became very discouraged. July's trip had been used to make felt more intensely their absence.
Seeing, hearing the tales of death that the father liked to repeat, was given more aware of the
dangers that surrounded her son.

The fatality funeral seemed to warn her forebodings.

- I'll kill
- said her husband -.

That wound is a warning from heaven.

When going out shaking with emotion at the invalid soldiers.

The convalescent look strong, next to return to the front, he still inspired more pity. He remembered
a trip to San Sebastian with her husband, a bullfight he had done screaming indignation and
pity, pity on the plight of the poor horses.

Remained with the entrails hanging and in the pens were subjected to a quick cure to get back
out on the sand inflamed by false energy. Repeatedly put up with this restructuring macabre up
at last reached the last gore, the final ... Men evoked newly healed in it the image of the poor
beasts.

Some had been wounded three times since the beginning of war and patched again and galvanized
to submit to the lottery of luck, always pending the supreme blow ... Oh, your son!

Desnoyers was angry listening to his wife.

- But if no one in July to kill him! ... It's my son. I've spent in my youth by terrible hazards.
I was also wounded in the wars of this world, and yet here I am full of years.

The events were responsible for strengthening their blind faith. Misfortune rained down around
the family, saddening to their relatives, and not one touched the intrepid sergeant, who insisted
in his exploits with a heroic abandon musketeer.

Doña Luisa received a letter from Germany.

Her sister wrote from Berlin, using South American Consulate in Switzerland. This time Ms. Desnoyers
cried for someone who was not her son, wept for Elena and enemies. In Germany also had mothers,
and she placed the feeling of motherhood above all patriotic differences.

- Poor Mrs. von Hartrott! His letter, written a month earlier contained only funeral news and
words of despair. Captain Otto was dead. Also killed one of his brothers children. This, at least,
offered comfort to the mother having fallen into a domain for theirs. Could mourn beside his
grave. The other was buried in French soil, no knew where. She never discovered his remains, mingled
with hundreds of corpses ignore Where ever consumed this body out of her womb ... A third son
was wounded in Poland. His two daughters had lost their fiancés, and despair with his silent
pain. Von Hartrott was presiding patriotic societies and made plans
of aggrandizement on the next victory, but he had aged greatly in
recent months.

The "wise" was the only it was firm. The misfortunes of the family raged the ferocity of Professor
Julius von Hartrott. Calculated for a book he was writing, hundreds of billions that Germany should
be required after his triumph and parts of Europe needed to do yours ...

Ms. Desnoyers thought he heard from the avenue Victor Hugo that was
running mother cry quiet in a house in Berlin.

"You will understand my desperation, Louise ... So happy that we were! May God punish those
who have brought upon the world so much misery! The Emperor is innocent.

His enemies are to blame for everything ... "

Don Marcelo was silent in the presence of his wife.

Elena pitied for their misfortune, from ignore the political statements
of the letter.

It also touched to see how he cried Dona Luisa his nephew Otto. It had been her godmother and
godfather Desnoyers. It was true; Don Marcelo had forgotten. He saw in imagination the quiet
life of the stay, games of the urchins blonde, he stroked the back of the grandfather, before
I was born in July. For several years he had devoted his nephews all your love, bewildered by
the delay of their own child. Good faith was shaken at the thought
of Karl despair.

But then, to be only a cold selfish erased those feelings. The war was war, and others had sought.
France must defend itself, and the more enemies dropped, more ... The only thing that should
be of interest to him was in July. And his faith in the destiny of the son did experience
a brutal joy, a loving parent satisfaction to ferocity.

- In that
no one kills him ... Heart tells me.

Another broke his closest Unfortunately calm. One evening, returning to Victor Avenue Hugo found
Dona Luisa with terror aspect of her hands to her head.

- The girl, Marcelo ... The girl!
Chichi was in the room lying on a sofa, pale, with a greenish white,
looking at She stared, as if he saw someone in a vacuum. No crying,
just a slight sheen of pearl shook their eyes, rounded spasm.

- I
want to see! - Said hoarsely -. I need him!

The father guessed that
something terrible had happened to the son of Lacour. Only by this
Chichi could show such desperation. His wife was telling the sad news.
René was wounded, seriously wounded. A shell had exploded on the battery,
killing many of their peers. The officer had been taken from a pile
of corpses was missing hand, was wounded in the legs, trunk, head.

-
I want to see! - Chichi repeated.

And Don Marcelo had to make great
efforts for his daughter to desist from this obstinacy pain that drove
her to require an immediate trip to the front, knocking down barriers,
to reach the injured side. The senator just convinced. Had to wait,
he who was his father, had to resign. René was managing to be transferred
to a hospital Paris.

The great man inspired pity to Desnoyers. Made
efforts to retain his stoic calmness from father to the old style,
reminded his glorious ancestors and to all the heroic figures of the
Roman Republic. But these illusions he suddenly collapsed, and his
friend surprised him crying more than once. An only child, and could
lose it! ... The silence of Chichi inspired him even more sympathy.
No crying, her pain was no tears, no fainting. The greenish pallor
of her face, the brightness of fever in their eyes, a stiffness that
made him walk like a robot, were the only signs of emotion. Bob said. "The water was quite warm, and I slipped down and changed
my clothes, directly they left off firing."

"Never mind, you turn in as you are told. You have done us good service, tonight; and have
earned your keep on board the brig, if you were to stop here till she fell to pieces of old age."

When Bob went up in the morning, at five o'clock, the three Spanish vessels were still lying
at anchor under the land, seven or eight miles away.

"There is a breeze coming," Joe said, "and it is from the south, so we shall get it long before
they do. We shall see no more of them."

As soon as the breeze reached them, the sails were braced aft; and the brig kept as close to
the wind as she would sail, lying almost directly off from the land.

"I want them to think that we are frightened," Captain Lockett said, in answer to a question
from Bob as to the course, "and that we have decided to get away from their neighbourhood,
altogether. I expect they are only going as far as Alicante. We will run on till we are well
out of sight, then hold on for the rest of the day east and, in the night, head for land again,
beyond Alicante. It would never do to risk those fellows coming upon us, again, when we are
quietly at anchor. We might not be so lucky, next time."

An hour later the lookout in the top hailed the deck, and said that there was a sail in sight.

"What does she look like, Halkett?" Joe Lockett shouted, for the captain was below.

"As far as I can make out she is a two master--I should say, a brig."

"How is she heading?"

"About northeast, sir. I should say, if we both hold on our courses, she will pass ahead of us."

The captain was now on deck, and he and the first mate went up to the top.

"Starboard your helm a bit!" the captain shouted, after examining the distant sail through
his telescope. "Keep her about east."

"What do you think she is, captain?" Bob asked, when the two officers came down again to the poop.

"I should say that she was a craft about our own size, Bob; and I fancy she has come through
the Straits, keeping well over the other side, so as to avoid our cruisers from Gib; and is
now heading for Alicante. Remembered
not worth the destruction of the castle. I felt an irresistible when their hobbies laziness
tried to push, as in other times, purchases constant. No, maybe he was there ... And there was
always the study of July.

Argensola worked in the presence of Don Marcelo. I knew that old people abhorred inactive, and
had undertaken several works, feeling the contagion of this angle will to the action. Desnoyers noted
with interest the brush strokes and accepted all the explanations the portrait of souls. He was
in favor of the ancients in their shop, had only acquired works by dead artists, but it was enough
to know that Jules thought as his friend, to support humbly all theories
of it.

The artist's hard work was another. A few minutes later he preferred to speak with the old, sitting
on the same couch.

The first topic of conversation was absent. Repeated fragments of the letters had received, talked
about the past with subtle allusions. The painter depicted the life of Julius before the war as a
life dedicated entirely to the concerns of art.

The father was aware of the inaccuracy of such words, but appreciated as a big lie token of friendship.
Argensola was a good companion, discreet, never to abandon its greatest verbal, had alluded
to Madame Laurier.

In those days, worried about the old memories of it. Had met in the street giving his arm to her
husband, who was now recovered from his wounds. The illustrious Lacour had happy marriage reconciliation.
The engineer had only lost one eye.

Now was in charge of his factory requisitioned by the government for making bombs. Was captain
and wore two medals. Senator certainly did not know how it was done an unexpected reconciliation.
I had seen them arrive a day to his home together, looking with tenderness,
completely forgotten the past.

- Who remembers things before the
war? - Had said the character -.

They and his friends have forgotten all about the divorce. We all live a new life ... I think the two
are now happier than before.

This happiness I had sensed Desnoyers to see them. And the man of strong moral values, which
anathematized the year before your child's behavior with Laurier,
holding for the most harmful of the skulls, felt some vexation at
the sight Marguerite glued to her husband, speaking with love interest.

It seemed an act of ingratitude is happiness in marriage. A woman who had influenced both in the
life of Julio! ... So you can forget the love? ...

The two had gone as if he knew. Perhaps the captain was not clear Laurier; but she had looked
at her candid eyes, looking back abruptly to avoid your greeting
... The old man grieved at such indifference, not by him but on the
other.

Poor Julio! ... The inflexible sir, full mental immorality, lamented this oversight as something
monstrous.

The war was another subject of conversation during the evenings spent in the study. Argensola no
longer had his pockets full of paper, as at the beginning of hostilities. A quiet and serene
resignation had happened to the excitement the first time, when people
extraordinary and wonderful interventions expected.

All the newspapers said the same. He had only to read the official statement, and this document wise
to wait without impatience, feeling that, more or less say the same as above.

The fever of the first months with their hopes and optimism, now seemed somewhat unrealistic. Those who
were not in the war had gradually become habitual occupations. The existence resumed its regular
pace. "We must live," people said. And the need to continue thinking life filled with immediate
demands. Those with individuals The army armed remembered them, but their occupations muffled violence
of memory, running to accept the absence, as something that was going to be special normal. At first,
the war cut the dream, the food was inedible, bitter pleasure, giving it a funereal pallor. Everyone
was talking about the same. Now, slowly opened the theater circulating money, people laughed,
talked about the great calamity, but only to certain hours, as something
that was going to be long, lengthy, and demanding with inevitable
fatalism great resignation.

- Humankind can easily get used to misfortune
- Argensola said - as long as misfortune is long ... That is our strength,
which is why we live.

Don Marcelo would not accept his resignation. The war was going to be shorter than you imagined
all. His enthusiasm will immediately set a term: within three months in the spring next. And
if peace was not in the spring, would be in the summer.

A new participant took part in conversations. Desnoyers knew the neighboring Russian, Argensola
speaking to him.

Also this weird character had treated his son, and this was enough Tchernoff inspire you to
great interest.

In normal times, he was kept at a distance. The millionaire was in favor of order. Detested the
revolutionaries, with the instinctive fear of all the rich who have created his fortune and remember
the modesty of its origins. Tchernoff socialism and nationality would have necessarily resulted in
his mind a series of horrifying images, pumps, stabbing, just by hanging atonement, sent to Siberia.
No, it was a friend recommended ... But now Don Marcelo felt a profound disorder in the appreciation
of others' ideas. He had seen so much! ... The procedures terrifying invasion, lack of scruples
German heads, the ease with which the ships sunk submarines peaceful cast full of helpless passengers,
the exploits of the airmen, that two thousand feet throwing bombs on open towns, destroying women
and children, made him remember as unimportant events of revolutionary
terrorism attacks that caused years before outrage.

- And to think
- he said - that we are angry, as if the world were to fall apart,
because someone threw a bomb at a character!

These exalted offered to him a quality that dimmed his crimes. Victims died their own acts or
gave themselves knowing what would be his punishment. Sacrificed without seeking Output: rarely
had saved using the precautions of impunity. While The terrorist war! ...

With the violence of its urgent nature, the old effected a complete reversal of values.

- The real anarchists are now at the top - he said with an ironic laugh -. All that We were frightened
by some unhappy ... In a second killing the most innocent of our
time the other in thirty years.

The sweetness of Tchernoff, original ideas, and inconsistencies of thinker accustomed to reflection
jump to the word without any preparation, eventually seduce Don Marcelo. All doubts of consulting
with him. His admiration made him overlook the provenance of certain
bottles that sometimes Argensola regaled his neighbor.

Gladly accepted Tchernoff that consume these memories of the time when he lived fighting with your
child.

After tasting the wine of the avenue Victor Hugo, was a loquacious visionary Russian similar to that
of the night raised the fantastic ride of the four apocalyptic horsemen.

What I admired most was the ease Desnoyers putting things, fixing them through image. The Battle
of the Marne to the fighting that followed, and the race of both armies towards the sea were to
him made easy explanation ... If the French had not been tired after his triumph at the Marne!
...

--... But human forces - continued Tchernoff - are limited, and French, with all enthusiasm, is a
man like others. First, very rapid progress in the North East to deal with the invasion of
Belgium and then the fighting, and then withdrawal fast to avoid being enveloped, and finally
a battle of seven days and all this in a period just three weeks ... In the moment of triumph to
the victors legs were missing for go ahead and cavalry failed to
pursue the fugitives.

The beasts were more exhausted even men. To be harassed with little tenacity, which retreated,
falling fatigue, lay down and dug the earth, creating a shelter. The French also went to bed,
scratching the ground to keep the recovered ... And thus began the
war trenches.

Then, every line, in an attempt to envelop the enemy line had been
extending towards North West, and successive stretching was the race
to the sea each other, forming the largest battlefront was known in
history.

When Don Marcelo, in his enthusiastic optimism, announcing the termination of war next spring ... for
the summer, always within four months at the most, Russian shook his head.

- This will be long ... long. It's a new war, the true modern war. The Germans initiated hostilities
to the old style, as if they had not seen anything after 1870: outflanking war, battles in the open,
as he could devise Moltke imitating Napoleon. Wished to end soon and they were sure of victory.
What make use of new procedures? ... But what of the Marne twisted his plans were aggressors
to go on the defensive, and then used all that his staff had learned in Japanese and Russian campaigns,
beginning of trench warfare, the fight underground that is logical,
for the scope and quantity of fire of modern weapons.

The conquest a mile of land now accounts for more than a century
ago the assault of a fortress stone ... Neither are going to move
in a long time.

Maybe not ever move permanently.

This is going to be long and boring, like fights between athletes of balanced forces.

- But have you ever have an end - said Desnoyers.

- Certainly, but who knows when? ... And how will each other when it's over? ...

He believed in a quick end when people least expect it, with the fatigue
of one of the two wrestlers, carefully concealed until the last minute.

-
Germany will be defeated - he said with firm conviction -.

I do not know when or how, but fall logically. His coup failed him in September, not undoing to
enter Paris enemy.

All wins from their deck then threw them on the table. She did not win and continues to prolong
the game because it has many letters, and extend long time yet ... But what we could do at first,
never will.

To Tchernoff final defeat did not mean the destruction of Germany or the annihilation the German
people.

- Me, I am outraged - continued - the excessive patriotism. Listening to some people who made
plans for the final elimination of Germany, I seem to be listening to the Pangerman Berlin when
the continents divided.

Then clarified its opinion.

- We must defeat the Empire, for the peace of the world: eliminate the vast war machine which disturbs
the peace of nations ... Since 1870 all live badly.

For forty and four years have averted the danger, but in all this time which of anguish! ...

What
most irritated Tchernoff was born immoral teaching of this situation and had ended up taking
over the world: the glorification of force, the sanctification of success the triumph of materialism,
respect for the fait accompli, the mockery of the noblest sentiments, as if they were simple and
ridiculous sound bites, the disruption of moral values, a philosophy of bandits pretending
to be the last word of progress and was not more than back to despotism, violence, barbarism
of earlier epochs of history.

He wanted the removal of the representatives of this trend, but not this called for the extermination
the German people.

- This town has great merits confused with poor conditions, which are inherited from a barbaric
past too close. Has the instinct of the organization and work, and can provide good service
to humanity ... However, prior to administering a Shower: Shower failure. The Germans are mad
with pride, and his madness is dangerous for the world. When they are gone poisoned with illusions
of hegemony world when misfortune has cooled their imagination and be content with being a group
Human neither superior nor inferior to others, form a tolerant people, useful ... and who knows
if even sympathetic.

There was at the present time to Tchernoff most dangerous people.

His political organization made it an educated warrior horde kicked and subjected to continuous humiliation
to override the will, which always refuses to discipline.

- It is a nation where all are beaten and they want to give them to the one below. The kick releasing
the emperor is transmitted back to back to the last strata.

The shock start school and continue in the barracks as part of education. Learning the Crown
Prince of Prussia was always receive slaps and sticks to his father
the king.

The Kaiser stick to their offspring, the officer to his soldiers, father to his children and
the woman, the teacher to the students, and when the top can not
shock, which imposes upon it under the torment of moral outrage.

So they left their ordinary life, taking up arms to fall into another group human, were relentless
ferocity.

- Each one of them - continued Russian - brings back under a deposit of kicks received and want
to turn giving comfort to those unfortunate people who put the war under his domination. The
village of "gentlemen" as he calls himself, wants to be ... but outside
their home.

Within it is the least known human dignity. So feel so strongly the
desire to spread throughout the world, from servant to master.

Suddenly,
Don Marcelo frequently stopped going to the studio. Now looking to
his friend Senator. A promise he had upset his quiet resignation.

The
character was sad since the heir to the glories of his family had
gone to war, breaking the protective net of recommendations that had
been wrapped.

One night, eating at home Desnoyers, said one idea
that made it shudder. "Is not would like to see his son was handling
?...» Senator authorization Headquarters for the front. Needed to
see to René. Belonged to the same corps that July; were perhaps slightly
distant places, but a car can take many detours before reach the end
of your trip.

No need to say more. Desnoyers suddenly felt a strong
desire to see his son. Wearing many months have to be content with
reading his letters and the contemplation of a photograph taken by
a comrade ...

Since then laid siege to Lacour as if one of his constituents
eager for employment.

The three-quarters of an hour passed very slowly, and Bob consulted his watch several times,
before the minute hand got to twelve.

"Ten o'clock," he said, at last.

The oars had not been got in, so the boat glided off again, noiselessly, out through the entrance.
There were lights burning at the sterns of the two Spanish ships, as a guide to the boat coming
off and, when the boat had traversed half the distance, Joe ordered the oars to be unmuffled,
and they rowed straight for the barque. There was no hail at their approach, but a man appeared
at the top of the ladder.

As the boat came alongside, ten of the men rose noiselessly from the bottom of the boat, and
followed the first mate up the ladder. As he reached the top, Joe sprang on the Spanish sailor,
and seized him by the throat. The two sailors following thrust a gag into the man's mouth,
bound his arms, and laid him down.

This was effected without the slightest noise. The other sailors had, by this time, clambered
up from the boat and scattered over the deck. A group of seven or eight Spaniards were seated
on the deck, forward; smoking by the light of a lantern, which hung above the fo'castle. They
did not notice the approach of the sailors, with their naked feet; and the latter sprang upon
them, threw them down, bound, and gagged them, without a sound--save a few short exclamations
of surprise being uttered.

Illustration: They found the two Spanish mates playing at cards.

Three or four of the sailors now coiled a rope against the fo'castle door, to prevent its being
opened. In the meantime Joe, with two men, entered the cabin aft, where they found the two
Spanish mates playing at cards. The sudden apparition of three men, with drawn cutlasses, took
them so completely by surprise that they were captured without any attempt at resistance; and
were, like the rest, bound and gagged.

"You take the helm, Halkett," Joe said, and then hurried forward.

"Have you got them all?" he asked, as he reached the fo'castle.

"Every man Jack," one of the sailors said.

"Is there nobody on watch in the bows?"

"No, sir, not a man."

"Very well. Now then, to work.

"Cut the cable, Thompson.

"The rest of you, let fall the sails."

As these had only been loosely furled, when the vessel came to anchor, this was done in a very
short time; and the vessel began to move through the water before the light breeze, which was
dead aft.

The capture of the polacre had not been effected so silently. Bob had allowed the boatswain,
who accompanied him, to mount the ladder first; but the man at the top of the gangway had a
lantern and, as its light fell upon the sailor's face, he uttered an exclamation of surprise;
which called the attention of those on deck and, as the sailors swarmed up the ladder, shouts
of alarm were raised. But the Spaniards could not withstand the rush of the English, who beat
them to the deck before they had time to seize their arms.

The noise, however, alarmed the watch below; who were just pouring up from the hatchway when
they were attacked by the sailors with drawn cutlasses, and were speedily beaten below, and
the hatches secured over them. Bob had posted himself, with two of the men, at the cabin door;
and as the officers rushed out, on hearing the noise, they were knocked down and secured. As
soon as this was effected, Bob looked round over the side.

"Hurrah!" he said, "the barque is under way already. Get the sails on her, lads, and cut the
cable."

While this was being done Bob mounted the poop, placed one of the sailors at the helm, and
then turned his eyes towards the battery, astern. He heard shouts, and had no doubt that the
sound of the scuffle had been heard. Then lights appeared in several of the casements and,
just as the sails were sheeted home, and the polacre began to move through the water, a rocket
whizzed up from the battery, and burst overhead. By its light Bob saw the Antelope and the
Spanish barque, two or three hundred yards ahead; with their crews getting up all sail, rapidly.

A minute later, twelve heavy guns flashed out astern, one after another. They were pointed
too high, and the shot flew overhead, one or two passing through the sails. The boatswain's
voice was heard, shouting:

"Never mind the shot, lads! Look alive! Now then, up with those topgallant sails! The quicker
you get them up, the quicker we shall be out of range!"

Another battery, higher up, now opened fire; but the shot did not come near them. Then rocket
after rocket was sent up, and the battery astern again fired. One of the shot cut away the
main-topsail yard; another struck the deck abreast of the foremast, and then tore through the
bulwarks; but the polacre was now making good way. They felt the wind more, as they got farther
from the shore; and had decreased their distance from the craft ahead.

The boatswain now joined Bob upon the poop.

"We have got everything set that will draw, now," he said. "She is walking along well. Another
ten minutes and we shall be safe, if they don't knock away a spar.

"She is a fast craft, Mr. Repton. She is overhauling the other two, hand over hand."

"We had better bear away a bit, boatswain. The captain said we were to scatter as much as we
could, so as to divide their fire."

"All right, sir!" and the boatswain gave the orders to the helmsman, and slightly altered the
trim of the sails.

"I suppose we can do nothing with that broken yard, boatswain?"

"No, sir; and it don't matter much, going pretty nearly before the wind, as we are. The sails
on the foremast draw all the better, so it don't make much difference.

"Look out, below!" he shouted, as there was a crash above; and the mizzenmast was cut in sunder,
by a shot that struck it just above the topsail blocks; and the upper part came toppling down,
striking the bulwark and falling overboard.

"Lay aft, lads, and out knives!" the boatswain shouted. "Cut away the wreck!

"It is lucky it wasn't two feet lower," he said to Bob, "or it would have brought the topsail
down; and that would have been a serious loss, now the main-topsail is of no use."

He sprang to assist the men, when a round shot struck him, and almost carried off his head.
Bob caught at the knife that fell from his hand, and set to work with the men.

"That is it, lads, cut away!" he shouted. "We sha'n't have many more of them on board. We are
a good mile away, now."

Just as the work of getting rid of the wreck was accomplished, one of the men said, as a rocket
burst overhead:

"There are two of their gunboats coming out of the harbour, sir."

"We had better close with the others, then," Bob said. "The brig will engage them, when they
come up. We shall be well beyond reach of the batteries, before they do.

"Now, lads, see what guns she carries. Break open the magazine, and get powder and ball up.
We must lend the captain a hand, if we can."

The polacre mounted eight guns, all 14 pounders; and in a few minutes these were loaded. The
batteries continued to fire; but their shooting was no longer accurate and, in another ten
minutes, ceased altogether. The craft had now closed to within hailing distance of the brig.

"Hallo, the polacre!" 

Desnoyers family was to fulfill his wish.

Regaining his senses after the fatal news, the father had concentrated
all his will in a petition:

- I need him ... Oh, my son ... My son!

Unnecessarily senator demonstrated the impossibility of this trip. They were still beating in the
area where he fell in July. Later it might be possible to visit. "I want to see him, insisted the
old man. Needed to consider the grave of the child before he died in his turn. And Lacour
had to work for four months, making supplications and forcing resistors
Don Marcelo could make this trip.

A military vehicle was, at last, one morning to all the Desnoyers
family. Senator could not go with them.

Rumors of a forthcoming ministerial change, and he was displayed in the Upper House, if the Republic
claimed their services a bit slighted.

They spent the night in a provincial town, where he was the commander
of an army corps.

René took reports of the officers who had witnessed the great struggle. With the map to the
view was following in his explanations, to know the section of land that had July the regiment
moved.

The next morning resumed their journey. A soldier who had taken part in the battle served as
their guide, seated on the seat beside the chauffeur. René consulted from time to when the
map spread on his knees and asked questions to the soldier. The Regiment he had fought alongside
the Desnoyers, but could not remember the exact locations walked by him months earlier. The field had been
transformed. Appearance was than when it was covered with men, including the incidents of the
battle. Loneliness baffled him ... And the car was moving slowly, without further north than the
groups of graves, following the central road, smooth and white, getting
on the roads cross: winding ditches, bogs of deep ruts, in which it
was made big leaps scream docks.

Sometimes it was to cross country, a group of crosses to the other, crushing with the footprint
of your tires the furrows opened by the plow.

Tombs ... graves everywhere. White locusts covered the landscape of death. No left free corner of
this flutter glorious funeral. The newly opened gray land by plowing, roads yellow, dark groves,
all throbbing with a ripple tireless. The ground seemed to shout, his words were the vibrations
of the restless flags.

And the thousands of screaming, with a chant incessantly restarted through the days and nights, singing
the monster clash I had witnessed this land and which kept A chill
still tragic.

- Dead ... dead - Chichi murmured, following the line
of sight crosses glided the flanks of the car in constant renewal.

-
Lord, for them!

... By their mothers! - Dona Luisa moaning resumed his recitation.

Here we had developed the most terrible battle, the fight to use old,
the shock body to hand, out of the trenches with the bayonet, with
the head, fists, teeth.

The guide, who began to orient themselves, was pointing out various
points of the compass alone.

African shooters were there, more here, hunters. Large groups of tombs line were soldiers who
had charged with the bayonet by the wayside.

He stopped the car. René fell behind the soldier to examine the inscriptions on a crosses. Perhaps
these dead of the regiment came looking. Chichi also lowered mechanically with the irresistible
desire to protect her husband.

Each burial kept several men. The number of bodies could be counted by kepi helmets or rotting
and rusting attached to the arms of the cross.

The ants were Rosary on military uniforms, pierced with holes of
putrefaction, and they occupied yet the number of the regiment.

Crowns that had adorned with patriotic devotion some of these graves were blackened and leafless.
In some crosses the names of the dead were yet clear, in other began to fade and soon would
be unreadable.

"The heroic death! ... Glory! "Chichi thought sadly.

Neither the name was going to survive even the most vigorous men missing
in his youth.

Only memories remain of them to rob from time to time to a old farmer driving his cow on a road
in France and that he would mutter and sigh: "My baby!

... Where is he buried my little boy? "Just live in the village woman dressed of mourning that does
not know how to solve the problem of their existence, children going
to the school with black blouse with a fierce will say: "When I grow
up I will kill them Boches to avenge my father.

"

Dona Luisa, motionless in his seat, his eyes following the passage of Chichi among the graves
again, interrupting his prayer:

- Lord, for mothers without children ... for children without parents
... your anger that we forget and your smile back to us!

The husband, dropped into his seat, the field also looked funereal. But his eyes were fixed steadfastly
in some graves wreaths or flags, simple crosses with short inscription
tablet.

They were German graves, which appeared to form separate page in the book of death. A Moreover,
in the countless French tombs, inscriptions to small-simple numbers: one, two, three dead.
The other, in spaced and unadorned graves, heavy items, bulky figures, figures of a frightening
brevity.

Fences limited long narrow sticks these ditches filled with meat. Bleaching earth as if it had
snow or salt. Lime was mixed in with the lumps.

The cross was in his board indicating that the tomb contained Germans, and then a number: 200 ...
300 ... 400.

These figures Desnoyers forced to make an imaginative effort.

They said promptly, but it was not exactly easy to evoke the vision of three hundred dead together,
three hundred wrappers livid and bloody human flesh, the straps broken,
dented helmet, the terminated boots mud balls, smelling of hard tissues
in which decomposition begins, glassy-eyed and tough, with the grin
of supreme mystery, lining up in layers the same as if they were bricks
in the bottom of a trench that is about to close forever ... And this
memorial alignment was repeated at intervals throughout the vastness
of the plain.

Don Marcelo felt a fierce joy. His fatherhood comfort suffering runaway experienced of revenge.
Julio had died, and he was going to die too, unable to bear his misfortune; but many languish
in these rotting enemies who left loved ones in the world we remember, as he remembered his son!
...

He imagined them as they should be before the time of his death, as he had seen on the progress of the
invasion around his castle.

Some of them, the most learned and formidable, bore in the face of dramatic scars of dueling academics.
They were soldiers who had books in the backpack and after execution of a batch of farmers or
the looting of a village he read poets and philosophers in the glow of fires. Science swollen,
with swelling of the toad, proud of their intellectual and pedantic enough, had inherited the heavy
dialectic and winding of the ancient theologians. Children and grandchildren of sophistry
lies, is considered able to provide the greatest absurdities with mental somersaults to which
they had used his intellectual acrobatics. The preferred method of the thesis, antithesis and
synthesis they used to demonstrate that Germany was to be mistress of the world, that Belgium was
to blame for his downfall for having defended, that happiness is to live every human regimenting
the Prussian, without losing any effort, to the supreme ideal of existence is in the barn clean
and the full manger, that freedom and justice do not represent more
than French revolutionary illusions of romance, all which is holy
from fait accompli when that succeeds, and the right is simply a derivative
of force.

These intellectuals with a rifle appeared to be the champions of a civilizing crusade. They wanted
to triumph definitely on the dark blond man, wanted to enslave the
despicable man South, getting for all that the world was run by the
Germans, "the salt the earth, "the aristocracy of humanity."

Everything in German history was worth something. The ancient Greeks had been of Germanic origin,
Germans great artists the Italian Renaissance.

Mediterranean men, with evil in their own home, had falsified history.

But the best of these ambitious dreams, the crusader of Pan-Germanism was shot the "Latin" negligible,
down to the grave with all his pride.

"Well you're where you are, pedantic bellicose," thought Desnoyers, remembering conversations
with his friend the Russian.

Too bad there were not also all the Herr Professor who had remained in German universities, scholars
of indisputable ability mostly to uncheck the intellectual products, changing the terminology
of things! These bearded men river and gold spectacles, peaceful laboratory rabbits and the chair,
had prepared the this war with their sophistry and pride.

His guilt was greater than that of Herr Lieutenant in tight corset
and shiny monocle that want the fight and I had only to slaughter
professionals continue their hobbies.

While the German soldier I got the lower class could and shot them drunk so he jumped the passage,
students read at the bivouac warrior Hegel and Nietzsche. It was too religious for run with their
hands on these acts of "historical justice."

But he and his teachers had excited all bad instincts of the beast Germanic, giving them a veneer
of justification scientific.

"Stay in your grave, intellectual dangerous," continued Desnoyers mentally.

The Moroccans fierce, the black child's mentality, the Hindustani gloomy, seemed more respectable
than any ermine robes parading proud and warlike by faculties of German universities. How peaceful
the world would disappear if their carriers! To barbarism refined, cold and cruel wise ambitious
preferred barbarism modest childish and savage bothered him less, and it was not hypocritical.

Therefore
the only enemies that inspired pity the soldiers were dark and few
letters that were rotting in those graves.

They were rustic field workers factories, shop, gluttonous Germans were immeasurable bowel
in war an opportunity to satisfy their appetites, and paste to send someone after spend his
life in obedience to his country and getting kicked.

The history of his country was no more than a series of raids to the south, similar to those
raids of Indians, to seize the property of men living on the banks temperate Mediterranean. The
Herr Professor had shown that these expeditions looting work represented a high civilization.
And the German was going forward, with enthusiasm of a good father
who sacrifices to win their own bread.

Hundreds of thousands of letters written by families with trembling
hands were at the Germanic horde in their progress through the invaded
lands.

Desnoyers heard reading some of them, to the late afternoon, before his haunted castle. Papers were
found in the pockets of dead and prisoners. "Have no mercy on pants red. Mata Welch did not spare
the small ... "" We appreciate the shoes, but girl can not wear them. Those French have ridiculously
small feet ... "" Try apoderarte of a piano. "" I'd like a nice watch. "" Our neighbor has
sent Captain his wife a pearl necklace. And you just send little things! "

Germany moved heroically virtuous with the double desire of enhancing his country and make valuable
items to the children. "Germany on the world!" But the best of your dreams fell into the pit
mixed with other comrades who cherished the same dreams.

Desnoyers imagined impatience, on the other side of the Rhine, the holy women who hoped and
waited. The death lists had not said anything maybe absent.

And the letters were starting towards the German lines: letters that never receive the recipient.
"Answer. When not writing is perhaps because we have prepared a good
surprise.

Do not forget the collar. Send a piano. A carved dining cabinet I would like very much. The French
things are beautiful ... "

The brief cross the earth stood still white lime. Near it fluttered the flags. They moved to
one side to another as a protest head, smiling wryly. No! ... No!

He drove the car. The guide pointed to a group now distant graves. There was certainly where the regiment
had fought. And the vehicle off the road, its wheels sinking disturbed soil, having to make
long detours to avoid the scattered graves capriciously by the hazards of combat.

Almost all fields were plowed. Man's work extended from tomb to tomb becoming more visible
and was repelling the morning mists envelope.

Under the soles last winter began to smile, nature, blind, deaf, insensitive, ignoring our existence
and indifferent in her womb welcomes the same to a poor little animal
One million human corpses.

Sources still kept their beards of ice, the earth was crumbling under foot the crunch of glass,
the wrinkles were still ponds, trees, black and asleep, retained on the trunk metallic green shirt that
had worn the winter; the bowels of the earth all breathed a cold
and fierce, like that of the planets off and the dead ... But spring
had girded on his armor of flowers in the palaces of tropics, saddling
the green steed neighing impatiently soon run the camps, bringing
to his gallop in disorderly flight to the black goblins winter, while
his floated back the loose hair of gold like a trail of perfume.

Announcing their arrival herbs covering the roads of tiny buttons. The birds were afraid to go
out from their shelters to flap between the crows cawing of anger at the tombs closed. The landscape
was taking in the sun a smile falsely childish gesture of child looking candid eyes, while
his pockets are full of stolen goods.

The farmer had plowed the seed patch and fill the groove. Men could continue killing, the earth
has nothing to do with their hatred, and not for them is going to
be discontinued course of his life. The gate had opened his lines
straight and inflexible, as all years, erasing the kick of men and
beasts, the deep ruts of cannon. Nothing baffled laborious stubbornness.
The funnels open by the bombs had filled.

Sometimes, the Iron Triangle
was hampered underground ... anonymous dead and without a grave. The
iron scratch went on, mercilessly for what is not. From time later
stopped at least soft obstacles. Shells were buried in the floor and
burst. The farmer dug the apparatus of death, sometimes with malice
late, did explosion in his hands ... But the man on earth knows no
fear when he goes in search livelihoods, and continued his straight
forward, twisting only upon reaching a tomb visible.

"Come along, Bob, we will overhaul the papers," the captain said and, going to the cabin, they
examined the bill of lading.

"Here it is, sir," Bob said, triumphantly. "Two hundred tons of lead."

"Splendid!" the captain exclaimed. "That is a prize worth having. Of course, that is stowed
away at the bottom; and then she is filled up with hides, and they are worth a lot of money--but
the lead, alone, is worth six thousand pounds, at twenty pounds per ton.

"Is there anything else, Bob?"

"Yes, sir. There are fifty boxes. It doesn't say what is in them."

"You don't say so, Bob! Perhaps it is silver. Let us ask the officers."

The Spanish first mate was called down.

"Where are these boxes?" Bob asked, "and what do they contain?"

"They are full of silver," the man said, sullenly. "They are stowed in the lazaretto, under
this cabin."

"We will have one of them up, and look into it," the captain said.

"Joe, call a couple of hands down."

The trapdoor of the lazaretto was lifted. Joe and the two sailors descended the ladder and,
with some difficulty, one of the boxes was hoisted up.

"That weighs over two hundredweight, I'm sure," Joe said.

Illustration: They find Boxes of Silver in the Lazaretto.

The box was broken open, and it was found to be filled with small bars of silver.

"Are they all the same size, Joe?" the captain asked.

"Yes, as far as I can see."

The captain took out his pocketbook, and made a rapid calculation.

"Then they are worth between thirty-two and thirty-three thousand pounds, Joe.

"Why, lad, she is worth forty thousand pounds, without the hides or the hull. That is something
like a capture," and the two men shook hands, warmly.

"The best thing to do, Joe, will be to divide these boxes between the three ships; then, even
if one of them gets picked up by the Spaniards or French, we shall still be in clover."

"I think that would be a good plan," Joe agreed.

"We will do it at once. There is nothing like making matters safe. Just get into the boat alongside,
and row to the brig; and tell them to lower the jolly boat and send it alongside. We will get
some of the boxes up, by the time you are back."

In an hour the silver was divided between the three ships; and the delight of the sailors was
great, when they heard how valuable had been the capture.

"How do you divide?" Bob asked Captain Lockett, as they were watching the boxes lowered into
the boat.

"The ship takes half," he said. "Of the other half I take twelve shares, Joe eight, the second
mate six, the boatswain three, and the fifty hands one share each. So you may say there are
eighty shares and, if the half of the prize is worth twenty thousand pounds, each man's share
will be two hundred and fifty.

"It will be worth having, Bob; though it is a great shame you should not rate as an officer."

"I don't want the money," Bob laughed. "I should have no use for it, if I had it. My uncle
has taken me in hand, and I am provided for."

"Yes, I understand that," the captain said. "If it were not so, I should have proposed to the
crew that they should agree to your sharing the same as the second officer. I am sure they
would have agreed, willingly; seeing that it is due to you that we were not captured, ourselves,
in the first place; and entirely to your suggestion, that we should keep the Spanish flag flying
and run into Cartagena, that we owe the capture of the prizes."

"Oh, I would much rather not, captain. I only came for a cruise, and it has been a splendid
one; and it seems to be quite absurd that I should be getting anything at all. Still, it will
be jolly, because I shall be able to make Carrie and Gerald nice presents, with my own money;
and to send some home to Mr. Medlin and his family, and something to uncle, too, if I can think
of anything he would like."

"Yes, it is all very well, Bob, for you; but I feel that it is not fair. However, as you really
don't want the money, and are well satisfied, we will say nothing more about it, now."

The ships lay becalmed all night, but a brisk breeze from the east sprang up in the morning
and, at noon, the Rock was visible in the distance. They held on for four hours; and then lay
to, till after midnight. After that sail was again made and, soon after daybreak, they passed
Europa Point, without having been seen by any of the Spanish cruisers. They were greeted by
a hearty cheer from the vessels anchored near the new Mole, as they brought up amongst them
with the British flags flying, above the Spanish, on board the prizes.

As soon as the morning gun was fired, and the gates opened, Bob landed and hurried up to his
sister's. She and her husband were just partaking of their early coffee.

"Hallo, Bob!" Captain O'Halloran exclaimed. "What, back again? Why, I didn't expect you for
another fortnight. You must have managed very badly, to have brought your cruise to an end,
so soon."

"Well, I am very glad you are back, Bob," his sister said. "I have been fidgetting about you,
ever since you were away."

"I am as glad to see you as your sister can be," Gerald put in. "If she has fidgetted, when
you had only gone a week; you can imagine what I should have to bear, before the end of a month.
I should have had to move into barracks. Life would have been insupportable, here."

"I am sure I have said very little about it, Gerald," his wife said, indignantly.

"No, Carrie, you have not said much, but your aspect has been generally tragic. You have taken
but slight interest in your fowls, and there has been a marked deterioration in the meals.
My remarks have been frequently unanswered; and you have got into a Sister Anne sort of way
of going upon the roof, and staring out to sea.

"Your sister is a most estimable woman, Bob--I am the last person who would deny it--but I
must admit that she has been a little trying, during the last week."

Carrie laughed.

"Well, it is only paying you back a little, in your own coin, Gerald.

"But what has brought you back so soon, Bob? We heard of you, three days ago; for Gerald went
on board a brig that was brought in, as he heard that it was a prize of the Antelope's; and
the officer told him about your cruise, up to when he had left you."

"Well, there wasn't much to tell, up till then," Bob said, "except that I was well, and my
appetite was good. But there has been a good lot, since. We have come in with two more good
prizes, this morning, and the brig is going to convoy them back to England."

"Oh, that is all right," Carrie said in a tone of pleasure.

So far, she had been afraid that Bob's return was only a temporary one; and that he might be
setting out again, in a day or two.

"Well, let us hear all about it, Bob," her husband said. "I could see Carrie was on thorns,
lest you were going off again. Now that she is satisfied, she may be able to listen to you,
comfortably."

"Well, we really had some adventures, Gerald. We had a narrow escape from being captured by
a Spanish ship of war, ever so much stronger than we were. She was got up as a merchantman,
and regularly took us in. We anchored close to her, intending to board her in the dark. I thought
I would swim off and reconnoitre a bit, before we attacked her; and, of course, I saw at once
what she was, and we cut our cable, and were towed out in the dark. She fired away at us, but
didn't do us any damage.

"The next day, late in the afternoon, we came upon the Brilliant chasing some Spanish craft
into Cartagena and, as we had Spanish colours up, she took us for one of them, and blazed away
at us."

"But why didn't you pull down the Spanish colours, at once, Bob? I never heard of anything
so silly," Carrie said, indignantly.

"Well, you see, Carrie, they were some distance off, and weren't likely to damage us much;
and we ran straight in, and anchored with the rest under the guns of the battery, outside Cartagena.
Seeing us fired at, of course, they never suspected we were English. Then, at night, we captured
the two vessels lying next to us, and put out to sea. The batteries blazed away at us, and
it was not very pleasant till we got outside their range. They did not do us very much damage.
Two gunboats came out after us, but the brig beat them back, and we helped."

"Who were we?" Captain O'Halloran asked.

"We were the prizes, of course. I was in command of one."

"Hooray, Bob!" Gerald exclaimed, with a great laugh, while Carrie uttered an exclamation of horror.

"Well, you see, the second mate had been sent off in the first prize, and there was only Joe
Lockett and me; so he took the biggest of the two ships we cut out, and the captain put me
in command of the men that took the other. I had the boatswain with me and, of course, he was
the man who really commanded, in getting up the sails and all that sort of thing. He was killed
by a shot from the battery, and was the only man hit on our vessel; but there were five killed,
on board the brig, in the fight with the gunboats.

"We fell in with the Brilliant, on the way back, and I went on board; and you should have seen
how Jim Sankey opened his eyes, when I said that I was in command of the prize. His first pictures were gathered at the crowd curious. Desnoyers
watched him carefully: "It looks like a good person." His instincts order man felt flattered
by the grave and serene air of General of the Republic. Suddenly experienced a great trust, similar
to the one that inspired managers Bank of good looks. This man he could trust interests, without
fear hiciese crazy.

The avalanche of enthusiasm and excitement to finally drag Desnoyers. Like all those who around
him, lived minutes were hours and hours that seemed years. The events are trampling; the world seemed
to recover within a week of long quiescence of peace.

The old man lived on the street, attracted by the spectacle of the
crowd waving civil to the other uniformed crowd leaving for the war.

Evening on the boulevards witnessed the passage of the demonstrations. The tricolor flag colors fluttered
under the electric lights. The cafes, overflowing audience, throwing swollen mouths by their doors
and windows the musical roar of patriotic songs. Suddenly he opened the crowd in the middle of the street
to applause and cheers. All Europe went there, all over Europe - except the two empires enemies
- spontaneously greeted with cheers to France in danger. Iban parading the flags of the various
peoples with all Iris inks, and behind them the Russians, with clear eyes and mystics, the
English, with bareheaded, singing religious songs of gravity, the Greeks and Romanians, aquiline
profile, the Scandinavians, white and red, the North Americans, with the noise a little childish enthusiasm,
the Jews without a homeland, friends of the country of revolutions equal; Italians, arrogant,
like a chorus of tenors heroic Spanish and South American tireless in their cheers. Were students
and workers who honed their skills in schools and workshops, refugees had taken to the hospital
in Paris as beach Shipwrecked Members of wars and revolutions. Her cries had no official significance.
All these men moved with spontaneous impulse, anxious to show their love to the Republic.
Y Desnoyers, moved by the sight, thought that France was still something in the world, still
exerted a moral force on people, and their joys or misfortunes interested to humanity.

"In Berlin and Vienna - he said - also cheers at this time ... But the country no more. Surely,
no stranger ostensibly to join their protests. "

The people of the Revolution legislator on the Rights of Man collected the gratitude of crowds.
He began to feel some remorse at the enthusiasm of foreign who offered their blood to France.
Many complained that the government twenty slowing voluntary admission days, until they had completed
mobilization operations. And he, who was born French, doubted hours
before your country!

...

By day, the mainstream led him to the Gare de l'Est. A mass of people thronged against the fence,
spilling into the streets near tentacles. The station, which was acquiring the importance
of a historic place, like a narrow tunnel through which tried sliding around a river, with great
shock and kindled against the walls.

Part of France in arms throwing this out from Paris to the battlefields of border.

Desnoyers had only been there twice, to the leg and the return of his trip to Germany. Other now
undertook the same way. The popular masses were coming from all ends City to see how they disappeared
inside the human mass contours station geometric, uniformly dressed, with rhythmical flashes
of steel and accompanying metal shock. The glass half points, shining in the sun like mouths igneous
people drink and drink. In the evening went on the parade by the light of electric bulbs. Through
the gates spent thousands and thousands of horses, men with iron-lined chest helmet hair and earrings,
as well as the champions of remote centuries enormous boxes cage that served as the condors to
aeronautics; beads long, narrow canyons, painted gray, protected by steel bulkheads, more similar
to astronomical instruments that drains to death, masses and masses of red kepis moving with
the pace of progress, and rows of rifles, a black and bare, dismal form reeds, others topped
with spikes appeared bright bayonets. And on these restless fields of grain steel the flags
of the regiment quivered in the air like colored birds: body white, blue wing, the other red,
a gold tie at the neck and above the peak bronze, iron spear pointed to the clouds.

Of those dismissed Don Marcelo returned home to vibrant and tired nerves as which has just witnessed
a spectacle of rough emotion. Despite his tenacious character, that always refused to acknowledge
the error itself, the old man began to feel ashamed of their previous questions. The nation
lived, France was a great people; appearances had deceived him as to many others. Perhaps most of
his countrymen were of an ease and forgetful delivered in excess to sensuous life, but when came
the hour of danger, simply did their duty, without needing the last taxation suffered by people
under railways to organizations.

On the morning of the fourth day of action, while leaving his home instead of moving the went
downtown with opposite direction, toward the rue de la Pompe. Some imprudent words Chichi and the restless
eyes of his wife and his sister made him suspect that in July had returned from his trip.
Felt the need to see from afar the windows of the study and if this could provide news. And
to justify to their own conscience exploration in contrast to their intention to oblivion, he remembered
that his carpenter residing at street.

- Come to see Robert. A week ago I promised to come.

This Robert was a tall boy who had "freed from the tyranny outs', in his own words, working
alone at home. A piece about underground room and served as workshop. The companion, which he
called "my partner" ran with the care of his person and home, while a child grew hung on to her
skirts. Consented to Robert Desnoyers their declamations against the bourgeoisie, because they
paid to every whim of incessant furniture arranger. In the luxury housing of the Avenue Victor
Hugo, the carpenter singing International moving while the saw or hammer. This and great boldness
of Mr forgave language, considering the cheapness of their labor.

Upon arrival at the small shop she saw him with his cap over one ear, baggy corduroy to the Mamluk,
spiked boots and several tricolor flags and ribbons on the lapels
jacket.

- You're late, boss - said cheerfully -.

Will close the factory. The owner has been mobilized and within a few hours will join his regiment.

He pointed to a paper written fixed on the door of his hovel, like posters print contained in all establishments
in Paris to show that employers and dependents had obeyed the order
of mobilization.

It had never occurred to her carpenter Desnoyers could become a soldier. Was rebellious to any imposition
of authority. I hated the flics, police in Paris, with he had changed his fists and sticks at
all turns. Militarism was his concern. At rallies against the tyranny
of the barracks had figured as one of the demonstrators noisy.

And this revolution was going to war with the best intentions, without any effort? ...

Roberto spoke enthusiastically of the regiment, of life among comrades, taking the death to
four steps.

- I believe in my ideas as before, pattern - continued, as if guessing what I thought the other
- but war is war, and teaches many things, among them that freedom
must be accompanied by order and command.

Someone needs to lead and others follow, voluntarily, by consent ... but still. When war comes
you see things differently than when you're at home doing what he wants.

The night I killed Jaures roared with anger, saying the next morning would revenge. He had looked
to their partners of their section to find out what they planned
against the bourgeoisie.

But the war was about to explode. Something in the air that is opposed to civil strife that
left in momentary oblivion particular grievances, concentrating all souls in a common aspiration.

-
A week ago - continued - it was anti-militarist. How far it seems to me that! As if one year ... I still
think as before: I love peace, hate war, and like me, all comrades. But the French have not led
to anyone and threaten us, they want to enslave us ... Let wild beasts, and that force us to be,
and to defend well, nobody out of line, that everyone obeys. The discipline is not incompatible
with the revolution.

Remember hosts of the first republic, all citizens, like the generals that soldiers, but Hoche,
Kleber and others were rude compadres who could send and impose obedience.

The

carpenter had his letters.

In addition to newspapers and pamphlets of "the idea" had read in
books loose to Michelet and other artists in history.

- Let us make
war on war - he said -.

We will beat for this war is the latest.

His statement did not seem quite clear, and continued:

- We will beat about the future, we will die so that our grandchildren will not know these calamities.
If the enemy triumphed triumph continued war and conquest as the only means of aggrandizement.
Would take over Europe first, then the rest of the world. The stripped would rise further: new
wars! ... We do not want conquests. We recover Alsace and Lorraine because they were ours
and its people want to come with us ... And nothing else. Do not imitate the enemy appropriating territory
and threatening the peace of the world. Napoleon had enough: we must not repeat the adventure.
Let to beat us by our security while the security of the world, life
of weak nations.

If it was a war of aggression, vanity, conquest, we would agree of our anti-militarism. But
the defense, and the rulers are not to blame. We attacked and we should all go together.

The carpenter, who was anticlerical, showed a generous tolerance,
an open mind comprising all men.

The day before had found the mayor of his district to a reservist who was going to go with
him joining the same regiment.

A glance had enough to admit it was a priest.

- I am a carpenter - had told him appearing -. And you, mate ... working in churches?

Used this euphemism for the priest could not suspect him foul intentions.

The two had shaken hands.

- I'm not the Calotte - continued, turning to Desnoyers -. Some time ago I started wrong with
God.

But everywhere there are good people and good people must be understood at this time. Did not
think so, boss?

The war flattered his hobbies egalitarian. Before her, speaking of the coming revolution was
a wicked pleasure imagining all the rich, who lose their fortune,
they would to work to survive.

Now I was excited to participate in all French the same fate, regardless of class.

- All backpacks and eating ranch. And he extended the military gravitas for who remained behind
the army. The war would bring great Shortages: everyone would meet ordinary bread.

- And you, master, that is old to go to war, have to eat like me, with all million ... Recognize that
this is beautiful.

Desnoyers was not offended by the malicious satisfaction that inspired the carpenter future deprivation.
I was thinking. A man like that, an opponent of all existing and material had nothing to defend,
going to war, to death, by a generous ideal and far, to avoid that humanity knew the horrors of
the future today. When you This did not hesitate to sacrifice their ancient faith, all beliefs
cherished until the day before ... And he was one of the privileged
of luck, which had deprived many tempting things defense, given to
doubt and criticism!

...

Hours later he returned to find the carpenter near the Arc de Triomphe. Group was Several workers
look like him, and this group was linked to others and others who were as a representation of all social
classes: well-dressed bourgeois, fine gentlemen and anemic, discharged tuxedo worn, pale face
and thick glasses, smiling young priests with some malice, as if engaged in a skull. In front
of the human herd was a sergeant and several soldiers in the rear with a rifle on his shoulder.
Reservists Come! ...

And a musical roar, a chant serious, menacing and monotonous emerged from this mass of mouths
round pendulum arms and legs that opened and closed as well as bars.

Roberto energetically sang the chorus warrior. Shaking eyes and drooping mustaches of France.
Despite his corduroy suit and canvas bag packed, had the same look great and heroic figures of
Rude in the Arc de Triomphe. The "associated" and the boy trotted by immediately to accompany
the sidewalk to the station. Eyes from them to talk row with a partner, shaved and looking serious:
surely the priest who had known the day before. Tuteaban Maybe now, with the fraternity that
inspired men to contact death.

Followed the millionaire with a look of respect to his carpenter, disproportionately enlarged to be
part of this human avalanche. And his respect was something of envy: envy awareness arising from
unsafe.

When Don Marcelo spent sleepless nights, nightmares, a source of terror, always the same, haunted
his imagination. Rarely dreamed of mortal danger to him or his. The vision was always fearful
that he had to collect documents credit agreements concluded with his signature, and he, Marcelo
Desnoyers, man faithful to their commitments, with a past of spotless integrity, could not afford.
The possibility of this made him shaking, and after waking her chest still felt oppressed by
terror. For your imagination, this was the greatest disgrace that a man can suffer.

To upset their lives with the turmoil of war, reappeared the same anxieties. Wide awake, in the
use of reason, suffered a punishment equal to that experienced seeing his name in his sleep without
honor at the foot of a bad document.

All the past came before him with extraordinary clarity, as if even then had remained blurred,
in a confusion of darkness. The land of France was threatened yours. Fifteen centuries of history
had worked for him, he found the open progress and amenities eyes that know not their ancestors.
Many generations of Desnoyers had prepared his coming to life struggling
with the land, defending it from enemies giving birth a family and
a home free ... And when it came his turn to continue this effort,
when he reached the turn in the chain of generations, fled the same
as a debtor avoids payment!

... Had contracted by coming into the world's land commitments their
parents with the human group which had existence.

This requirement was necessary to pay with their arms, refusing to
sacrifice danger ... He had eluded recognition of signature, absconding
and betrayed its ancestors.

Ah, you bastard! Never mind material success of their existence, the wealth acquired in a
remote country. There are faults not cleared with millions. The restlessness of his conscience
was proof. So were envy and respect he felt for that poor workman going to meet the death to other
beings equally humble, impassioned all for the satisfaction of having met, the sacrifice accepted.

The
memory of Madariaga came to his memory.

"Where we are rich and have a family, there is our homeland."

No, not true to say the centaur. In normal times, perhaps. Far from home of origin and when it does
not run any danger, you may forget a few years. But He now lived in France, and France had to
defend itself from enemies who wanted to suppress. The performance of all its inhabitants, rising
to Desnoyers mass represented a shameful torture. At all hours contemplating what he should have
done in his youth and would not do.

70 veterans were on the streets on the tab displaying the green and
black tape, I remember deprivation of the siege of Paris and the heroic
and ill-fated campaign.

Given these satisfied men of his past made him turn pale. No one remembered their own, but he knew
him, and it was enough. Vainly tried to calm her right inside the storm ... Those had been other times:
there was no unanimity of the present time, the Empire was unpopular: everything was lost
... But the memory of a famous phrase was fixed in his memory as a obsession: "There remained France!"
Many thought the same as him in his youth, and yet had not fled to
avoid the service of arms had been trying to the last and desperate
resistance.

His arguments useless excuses.

The reasoning ignores the strong feelings as useless. To understand the political and religious ideals
are essential explanations and demonstrations: the feeling of the country does not need any of this. The
homeland ... is country. And the workers of the cities, incredulous and mocking, the selfish
laborer, the lonely shepherd, all move to spell this word, understanding it instantly, with
no previous teaching.

"We need to pay - he repeated mentally Don Marcelo -. I pay my debt. "

And felt, as in dreams, anguish and despair of the honest man you want meet their commitments.

Pay! ... How? It was late. For a moment he got the heroic resolution offered volunteer, to march
with the bag on the side in one of those groups of future fighters as well as his carpenter.
But the futility of sacrifice arose in his mind. What which could serve? ... Seemed strong, stayed
strong for his age, but it was beyond sixty years, and only young people can be good soldiers.
Does anyone fight. The mood was more than enough to take a rifle. But the fight is nothing
more than an accident struggle.

The heavy, shocked, and sacrifices are the operations that precede the match, endless marches, the
rigors of the temperature at night to ceiling, remove the earth, digging trenches, load trucks,
from hunger ... No, it was too late. Even had an illustrious name to slaughter could serve as an
example.

He instinctively looked back. He was not alone in the world, had a son who could answer the debt
of the father ... This hope lasted only a moment.

His son was not French: belonged to another people, half of his blood was from various sources.
Besides, how could feel the same concerns that he? Would I understand if your father exposed them?
... It was useless to expect anything from this graceful dancer wanted by the women of this Bravo
courage frivolous, who risked their lives in duels to satisfy a childish honor.

The modesty of Mr. Desnoyers rough after these reflections! ... His family felt awe to see the
shrink and the gentleness with which he moved into the house. The two servants imposing gesture
had gone to join their regiments, and the biggest surprise they reserved
the declaration of war was the sudden love goodness, the abundance
of gifts to his farewell paternal care in guarding their travel arrangements.

The dreaded Don Marcelo's embraced with moist eyes. The two had to struggle not to accompany them
to the station.

Outside his house slid with humility, as if mutely beg pardon to the people who around him.
All seemed superior to him. Were times of economic crisis: the rich momentarily knew poverty
and unrest, the banks had suspended operations and paid only a tiny
part of their deposits.

The millionaire was deprived for a few weeks of their wealth. And she was concerned to see
the future uncertain. How long would to elapse before you send money to America? Do not come
to abolish war fortunes as well as the lives? ... And yet, never
appreciated the less money Desnoyers or disposed of it with greater
generosity.

Many popular aspect mobilized loose marching to the stations
found to a man who stopped them shyly, he carried a hand to his pocket
and left in his right hand the twenty-franc note, fleeing immediately
to their astonished eyes. The workers returning to say tearful farewell
to his men saw the same man smiling little children marching beside
them, stroking his cheek and walk away, leaving in their hands five-franc
piece.

Don Marcelo, who had never smoked, attended the offices of
snuff. Leaving them with hands and pockets full, to overwhelm with
a bounty to the first packet soldier was. Sometimes they would get up fishing parties
and, although they could not venture very far from the Rock, on account of the enemy's galleys
and rowboats, they had a good deal of sport; and fish were welcome additions to the food, which
consisted principally of salt rations--for Bob very soon tired of a diet of chicken.

There were some very heavy rains, in the last week of the year. These, they learned from deserters,
greatly damaged the enemy's lines--filling their trenches, and washing down their banks. One
advantage was that a great quantity of wood, cork, and other floating rubbish was washed down,
by the rain, into the two rivers that fell into the bay and, as the wind was from the south,
this was all blown over towards the Rock; where it was collected by boats, affording a most
welcome supply of fuel, which had been, for some time, extremely scarce.

On the 8th of January a Neapolitan polacre was driven in under the guns, by the wind from the
other side of the bay, and was obliged to drop anchor. Six thousand bushels of barley were
found on board her, which was of inestimable value to the inhabitants, who were now suffering
extremely; as were also the wives and children of the soldiers, whose rations--scanty for one--were
wholly insufficient for the wants of a family. Fowls had now risen to eighteen shillings a
couple, eggs were six pence each, and small cabbages fetched eighteen pence.

On the 12th the enemy fired ten shots into the town from Fort Saint Philip; causing a panic
among the inhabitants, who at once began to remove to their huts at the other end of the Rock.
A woman was wounded by a splinter of stone from one of the houses, being the first casualty
that had taken place through the siege. The next day the admiral gave orders to the men-of-war
that they should be in readiness, in case a convoy appeared, to afford protection to any ships
that might attempt to come in. This order caused great joy among the garrison and inhabitants,
as it seemed to signify that the governor had received information, in some manner, that a
convoy was on its way out to relieve the town.

Two days later a brig, that was seen passing through the Straits to the east, suddenly changed
her course and made for the Rock and, although the enemy tried to cut her off, she succeeded
in getting into port. The welcome news soon spread that the brig was one of a large convoy
that had sailed, late in December, for the relief of the town. She had parted company with
the others in the Bay of Biscay and, on her way, had seen a Spanish squadron off Cadiz, which
was supposed to be watching for the convoy. This caused much anxiety; but on the 16th a brig
laden with flour arrived, with the news that Sir George Rodney had captured, off the coast
of Portugal, six Spanish frigates, with seventeen merchantmen on their way from Bilbao to Cadiz;
and that he had with him a fleet of twenty-one sail of the line, and a large convoy of merchantmen
and transports.

The next day one of the prizes came in, and the midshipman in charge of her reported that,
when he had left the convoy on the previous day, a battle was going on between the British
fleet and the Spanish squadron. Late in the evening the convoy was in sight; and the Apollo,
frigate, and one or two merchantmen got in, after dark, with the news that the Spaniards had
been completely defeated--their admiral's flagship, with three others, captured; one blown
up in the engagement, another driven ashore, and the rest dispersed.

The preparations for relieving the town had been so well concealed that the Spaniards had believed
that the British men-of-war were destined for the West Indies, and had thought that the merchantmen
would have fallen easy prizes to their squadron, which consisted of eleven men-of-war.

Chapter 13: Oranges And Lemons.

There was great anxiety in Gibraltar that night, for the wind was very light and from the wrong
direction and, in the morning, it was seen that the greater portion of the convoy had drifted
far away to the east. Soon after noon, however, the Edgar managed to get in with the Spanish
admiral's flagship--the Phoenix, of eighty guns--and in the evening the Prince George, with
eleven or twelve ships, worked in round Europa Point; but Admiral Rodney, with the main body
of the fleet and the prizes, was forced to anchor off Marbella--a Spanish town--fifteen leagues
east of Gibraltar. It was not until seven or eight days later that the whole of the fleet and
convoy arrived in the port.

On the 29th a transport came in with the 2nd battalion of the 73rd Regiment, with 944 rank
and file. A large number of heavy cannon, from the prizes, were landed; and several hundreds
of barrels of powder, in addition to those brought out with the convoy. Great stores of salt
provisions and supplies of flour had been brought out but, unfortunately, little could be done
towards providing the garrison with a supply of fresh meat. Had Admiral Rodney been able to
remain with his fleet at Gibraltar, supplies could have been brought across from the African
coast; but the British fleet was required elsewhere, and the relief afforded was a temporary
one. The garrison was, however, relieved by a large number of the soldiers' wives and children
being put on board the merchantmen, and sent home to England. Many of the poor inhabitants
were also taken, either to Barbary or Portugal.

While the fleet was in port, the Spanish blockading squadron was moored close under the guns
of Algeciras; and booms were laid round them, to prevent their being attacked by the boats
of the British fleet. An opportunity was taken, of the presence of the Spanish admiral in Gibraltar,
to arrange for an exchange of prisoners; and on the 13th of February the fleet sailed away,
and the blockade was renewed by the Spaniards.

After the departure of the fleet, many months passed monotonously. The enemy were ever increasing
and strengthening their works, which now mounted a great number of cannon; but beyond an occasional
interchange of a few shots, hostilities were carried on languidly. The enemy made two endeavours
to burn the British vessels, anchored under the guns of the batteries, by sending fire ships
down upon them; but the crews of the ships of war manned the boats and, going out to meet them,
towed them ashore; where they burned out without doing damage, and the hulls, being broken
up, afforded a welcome supply of fuel.

The want of fresh meat and vegetables operated disastrously upon the garrison. Even before
the arrival of the relieving fleet, scurvy had shown itself; and its ravages continued, and
extended, as months went on. The hospitals became crowded with sufferers--a third of the force
being unfit for any duty--while there were few but were more or less affected by it.

As soon as it became severe, Captain O'Halloran and his wife decided to sell no more vegetables;
but sent the whole of their supply, beyond what was needed for their personal consumption,
to the hospitals.

During these eight months, only a few small craft had managed to elude the vigilance of the
enemy's cruisers and, frequently, foe many weeks at a time, no news of any kind from without
reached the besieged. The small supplies of fresh meat that had, during the early part of the
siege, been brought across in small craft from Barbary, had for some time ceased altogether;
for the Moors of Tangiers had, under pressure of the Spaniards, broken off their alliance with
us and joined them and, in consequence, not only did supplies cease to arrive, but English
vessels entering the Straits were no longer able to anchor, as they had before done, under
the guns of the Moorish batteries for protection from the Spanish cruisers.

Several times there were discussions between Bob, his sister, and Captain O'Halloran as to
whether it would not be better for him to take the first opportunity that offered of returning
to England. Their argument was that he was wasting his time, but to this he would not at all agree.

"I am no more wasting it, here, than if I were in Philpot Lane," he said. "It will be plenty
of time for me to begin to learn the routine of the business, when I am two or three and twenty.
Uncle calculated I should be four years abroad, learning the languages and studying wines.
Well, I can study wines at any time; besides, after all, it is the agents out here that choose
them. I can speak Spanish, now, like a native, and there is nothing further to be done in that
way; I have given up lessons now with the doctor, but I get plenty of books from the garrison
library, and keep up my reading. As for society, we have twenty times as much here, with the
officers and their families, as I should have in London; and I really don't see there would
be any advantage, whatever, in my going back.

"Something must be done here, some day. And after all, the siege does not make much difference,
in any way, except that we don't get fresh meat for dinner. Everything goes on just the same
only, I suppose, in peace time we should make excursions, sometimes, into Spain. The only difference
I can make out is that I am able to be more useful to you, now, with the garden and poultry,
than I could have been if there had been no siege."

There was indeed no lack of society. The O'Hallorans' was perhaps the most popular house on
the Rock. They were making quite a large income from their poultry, and spent it freely. Presents
of eggs, chicken, and vegetables were constantly being sent to all their friends, where there
was any sickness in the family; and as, even at the high prices prevailing, they were able
to purchase supplies of wine, and such other luxuries as were obtainable, they kept almost
open house and, twice a week, had regular gatherings with music; and the suppers were vastly
more appreciated, by their guests, than is usually the case at such entertainments.

Early in September, when scurvy was still raging, the doctor was, one day, lamenting the impossibility
of obtaining oranges and lemons.

"It makes one's heart ache," he said, "to see the children suffer. It is bad enough that strong
men should be scarcely able to crawl about; but soldiers must take their chances, whether they
come from shot or from scurvy; but it is lamentable to see the children fading away. We have
tried everything--acids and drugs of all sorts--but nothing does any good. As I told you, I
saw the scurvy on the whaling trip I went, and I am convinced that nothing but lemon juice,
or an absolutely unlimited amount of vegetables, will do any good."

A week previously, a small privateer had come in with some mailbags, which she had brought
on from Lisbon. Among them was a letter to Bob from the owners of the Antelope. It had been
written months before, after the arrival of the brig and her two prizes in England. It said
that the two vessels and their cargoes had been sold, and the prize-money divided; and that
his share amounted to three hundred and thirty-two pounds, for which sum an order upon a firm
of merchants at Gibraltar was inclosed. The writers also said that, after consultation with
Captain Lockett, from whom they had heard of the valuable services he had rendered, the owners
of the Antelope had decided--as a very small mark of their appreciation, and gratitude--to
present him with a service of plate, to the value of five hundred pounds, and in such form
as he might prefer on his return to England.

He had said nothing to his sister of this letter, as his intention was to surprise her with
some present. But the doctor's words now determined him to carry into effect an idea that had
before occurred to him, upon seeing so many sickly children among the families of the officers
of their acquaintance.

"Look here, doctor," he said, "I mean to go out and try and get a few boxes of oranges and
lemons; but mind, nobody but you and I must know anything about it."

"How on earth do you mean to do it, Bob?"

"Well, I have not settled, yet; but there can't be any difficulty about getting out. I might
go down to the Old Mole, and swim from there to the head of the bay; or I might get some of
the fishermen to go round the point, and land me to the east, well beyond the Spanish lines."

"You couldn't do that, Bob; there is too sharp a lookout kept on the batteries. No craft is
allowed to go any distance from the Rock, as they are afraid of the Spaniards learning the
state to which we are reduced, by illness. He had only a surname sounded, to accept it with enthusiasm. To visit
in July, proudly presented it to his friends, it was about to call him "Dear Master." The tango
was monopolizing all conversation. Even in the Academy had dealt with it, to show eloquently that
the youth of ancient Athens amused with something like ... And Lacour had dreamed all his life
with an Athenian republic to their country.

The youth met at these meetings Desnoyers marriage Laurier. He was an engineer owned a car
engine factory near Paris, a man of thirty-five years, large, somewhat heavy, silent, who posed
around his person a slow look, as if to penetrate more deeply into men and objects. Madame Laurier
was ten years younger than her husband, and seemed detached from it by the force of a harsh
contrast. Was of a light, elegant, frivolous, and he loved the pleasures of life and satisfactions
it provides. Seemed to accept with smiling conformity the silent adoration and her husband's grave.
I could not do less for a creature of its merits. Furthermore, had provided marriage a dowry of three
hundred thousand francs, which served as the engineer capital to expand business. The senator had
been involved in arranging the marriage partnership. Laurier interested him as the son of a companion
of his youth.

The presence of Julio Margarita Laurier was a ray of sunshine in the dreary room Lacour. She danced
the dance of fashion, frequenting the "tea-tango" which was admired Desnoyers. Verse Suddenly
the man next to famous and interesting women vying ...! To believed that a bourgeois not equal to the
other fellow members of the senator, spoke of her sewing, all of the rue de la Paix, declaring
gravely that a woman can not get respect into the street in a dress less than eight hundred
francs, and the hat of a thousand, subject of wonder a few years
ago, was now a commonplace.

This knowledge was used by "small Laurier" - as her friends called her, in spite of good stature
- is sought by the teacher saw the dances, going to dance with him between glances of contempt
and envy. What a triumph for the wife of a simple engineer, they went everywhere in his mother's
car! ... July became the top attraction of novelty. As he had believed all languishing in his arms
following the complicated rhythm of dance. After he found differently. The strength of it then
of the first verbal intimacies exalted your desire. Never really had tried to a woman of her
class. The first time was their parishioners of the restaurants at night, who eventually get paid.
Now, the celebrity was bringing his arms to ladies of high position, but with a shameful past,
anxious for news and over-ripe. This bourgeois marching toward him and slipped the time of
abandonment with sudden revivals modesty represented something special.

Tango

salons experienced a great loss. Desnoyers was seen less frequently abandoning his glory to the professionals.
Whole weeks passed without the devoted could admire from five to seven their black tresses
and gleaming varnished little feet under the lights to the beat of graceful movements.

Margarita Laurier also fled these locations. The interviews of both developed according to what
she had read in romantic novels that are set in to Paris. I was looking for fear of being recognized
in July, trembling with emotion, choosing the more suits dark, covering his face with a thick
veil, "the veil of adultery", as they said their friends. Came together in less frequented
neighborhood squares, changing places as birds fearful that the slightest concern to take
flight to go and sit at a great distance. Sometimes they met in the Buttes Chaumont, others
preferred the gardens Left Bank, Luxembourg and even the remote Montsouris Park. She felt chills
of terror at the thought that her husband could surprise, while the industrious engineer was
at the plant, at an enormous distance from reality. His appearance startled, their excessive precautions
to slip unnoticed, eventually drawing the attention of passersby.

July impatient with the inconvenience of this love wandering without achieving some furtive
kisses. But it was silent at last, dominated by the words of Margaret supplicants. No I wanted
to be his as one of many: I needed convincing that this love would last forever. It was his first
offense and wanted to be the final. Ay! His reputation intact until then! ... The fear of what people
might say! ... The two fell into adolescence, is loved with passion and childlike trusting
fifteen years, they had never known. July had jumped from childhood to the pleasures of debauchery,
ranging from a stroke all the initiation of life. She had wanted the marriage to do as the others, to
acquire respect and freedom of a married woman to her husband feeling only a vague appreciation.
"We end where others begin," said Desnoyers.

His passion took all forms of intense love, faithful, and vulgar. Melted with sentimentality
of romance to shake hands and change a kiss on a garden bench to dusk. He kept a lock of hair
from Margarita, but doubting its authenticity, with a vague suspicion that it might be of
added taxes for fashion. She left her head on his shoulder, all evenly, as if imploring his domination;
but always outdoors. Just trying to coach, Madame repelled him strongly. A contradictory duality
seemed to inspire his actions. Every morning woke up ready the final maturity. But then, to
be near him, reappeared the petty bourgeois, jealous its reputation, faithful to the teachings
of his mother.

One day he agreed to visit the studio, with the interest that inspired the haunts the beloved.
"Swear that you will respect me." He had the simple oath, and swore by all what Margaret wanted
... And from this day were no longer in the gardens and wandered pursued by the winter wind. They
stayed in the study, and Argensola had to modify their existence, looking for a painter friend stove
to continue his reading.

This situation lasted two months. Never knew what secret force suddenly collapsed its peaceful
happiness. Perhaps it was a friend of hers, who, realizing the facts, made know her husband through
an anonymous, perhaps unconsciously betrayed the same wife, with inexplicable joy, their returns
to the house later, when food was already on the table, and the sudden aversion to the engineer showing
the hours of marital intimacy, to remain faithful to the memory of another. The shared between
the legal and human mate love was a torment that her enthusiasm could
not bear simple and intense.

When he trotted a night on the rue de la Pompe looking at his watch and trembling with impatience
not finding a car or a simple cab, cut him off a man ... Laurier Esteban! Still remember shaking
with fear at this tragic hour. For a moment thought he was going to kill her. Men serious, shy and
submissive are terrible in their outbursts of anger. The husband I knew everything. With the same
patience he used in solving industrial problems, had studied day
after day, without being able to guess this surveillance on his face
impassive.

Then had followed, to acquire the full evidence of his misfortune.

Margarita had not ever imagined as vulgar and loud in their passions. Expected accept the facts
dispassionately, with a slight tinge of irony, philosophical, as do truly distinguished men, as
they did the husbands of many of her friends. But the poor engineer, his work beyond just looked
at his wife, loving her as a woman and admired as a delicate and superior overview of all the
grace and elegance, no could resign, and yelled and threatened without any modesty, making the
scandal spread around the circle of friends. The senator felt great discomfort to remember
it was in his respectable house where they knew the culprits. But his anger the directed against
the husband. What lack of good living! ... Women are women, and all be fixed. But after the follies
of this madman was not possible a elegant, and had to file for divorce.

The

old Desnoyers was angry to learn of the latest exploit of her son. Laurier inspired a great affection.
Instinctive solidarity between working people, patients and silent, they had sought. In the
gatherings at the senator asked the engineer news the conduct of its business, interest in the
development of that factory, which spoke with tenderness of a father. The millionaire, who
enjoyed a reputation for miserly, had come to provide selfless support, if needed someday expand
their laborious action. And to this good man was coming to steal your child's happiness, a dancer
frivolous and useless! ...

Laurier, at first spoke of fighting. His anger was the work horse breaking the straps of the
working machine, ruffles his hair with the neighing of madness and bites. The father was angry
at his determination ... A scandal!

Julio had dedicated the best part of their existence to handle weapons.

- I kill you - said the senator -. I'm sure you will kill him. Is the logic of life: useless always
kills it serves for something.

But there was one death.

The father of the Republic knew how to handle some and to others with the same showing skill
in the corridors of the Senate to rise to a ministerial crisis.

Is silenced scandal. Margaret went to live with his mother, and began
the first steps for divorce.

Some evenings, when the clock of the study gave the seven, she had
said sadly, between stretches of fatigue loving:

- March ... Leave
when it is my true home ... Oh, why are not married!

...

And he, that was blooming in her soul a whole garden of bourgeois
virtues hitherto ignored, repeated convinced:

- It's true, why are
not married!

His wishes were carried out. The husband provided them over with his unexpected intervention.
And the young Desnoyers went to America to raise money and marry Margarita.

IV

Berlin's cousin

The study of Julio Desnoyers occupied the top floor above the street. The elevator and stairs
Main ended his door. Behind them, two small departments received the light from an interior courtyard,
with the only media service stairs, that led up to the attic.

Argensola, by staying in the studio during the trip of a partner, had sought the friendship floor
of these neighbors. The largest of the rooms was unoccupied for the
day.

Their owners just returned after eating at the restaurant. It was a marriage of employees, only stayed
at home for the holidays. The man, vigorous and martial aspect, inspector serving in a department
store. He had been a soldier in Africa, showed a medal and held the rank of lieutenant in the
army reserve. She was a blonde bulky and somewhat anemic, clear-eyed and sentimental gesture.
In the spent long holidays hours at the piano, evoking memories of music, always the same. Sometimes
saw Argensola working inside a window in the kitchen, aided by his companion, laughing both of their
clumsiness and inexperience to improvise Sunday lunch.

The caretaker had to this German woman, but she did record its status in Switzerland. Played employment
as a cashier in a store that was not his teammate. In the morning went out together, to separate
in the Place de l'Etoile, each following a different direction. At seven PM greeted with a
kiss on the street, as lovers who meet by first time, and after your meal returned to the nest,
rue de la Pompe. Argensola found himself rejected in its attempts to friendship, selfishness of
the couple. He answered with a courtesy glacial: living only for them.

The other department, composed of two parts, was occupied by a single man. It was a Russian or Polish,
almost always returning with packages of books and spent long hours writing beside a window
in the courtyard. The Spanish he had from the outset by a mysterious man maybe hiding enormous
merits: a true character in a novel. He impressed the Tchernoff exotic appearance, his beard
revolt, their hair greasy, his glasses on a large nose appeared deformed
by a punch.

As an invisible halo surrounded him some composed of cheap wine smell and fumes of clothes
transudates; Argensola perceived it through Service door: "The Tchernoff friend comes back."
And there went out to the staircase to talk to your neighbor. This argued for a long time access
to your home.

The Spanish arrived to believe that was dedicated to the mysterious alchemy and other operations.
When he was finally able to enter, saw books, many books, books everywhere, scattered on the
floor, aligned on tables, stacked in corners, invading rickety chairs,
old tables and a bed it was just remade from time to time, when the
owner, alarmed by the growing invasion dust and cobwebs, demanded
the help of a friend of the concierge.

Argensola recognized at last with some disappointment that there was nothing mysterious in the
life of this man. What he wrote next to the window were translations: some custom made, other
volunteers to socialist newspapers. The only thing amazing about him was the amount language he knew.

-
All known - said to Desnoyers to describe this neighbor -. I just heard a new one, for few days to
master. Holds the key, the secret of living and dead languages. Talk Castilian as us and has not
ever been to a Spanish speaking country.

The sense of mystery Argensola he experienced while reading the titles of many of stacked volumes.
They were mostly old books, many of them in languages he could not decipher, collected at low
prices on secondhand bookshop and boxes of bouquinistes installed on the parapets of the Seine.
Only one man, who had "the key languages, "could acquire such volumes. An atmosphere of mysticism,
initiation superhuman, secrets intact through the centuries, it appeared these piles dusty volumes,
some with leaves gnawed. And confused with antiquated books others appeared brand new and red
cover, socialist propaganda booklets, brochures all European languages, and newspapers, many
newspapers, with titles that evoke the revolution.

Tchernoff not seem to like visits and talks. He smiled enigmatically through Ogre beard, saving words
to finish the interview soon.

But had Argensola the means to overcome this intractable character. It was enough to wink expressive
invitation. Shall we? "And the two were installed on a couch in the kitchen Desnoyers or study,
compared to a bottle from the avenue Victor Hugo. Precious wines of Don Marcelo softened Russian,
making it more communicative. But even using this aid, the Spanish knew little of its existence.
Sometimes referred to Jaures and other speakers to socialists. Their livelihood was safer to translate
the party newspaper. On several occasions escaped the name of Siberia, stating that he had been
there a long time. But he would not speak of the distant country
visited against his will.

He smiled modestly, not given to older revelations.

The day after the arrival of Julio Desnoyers was Argensola in the
morning, talking with Tchernoff on the landing of the stairs, rang
the doorbell the study that led to the main staircase.

A great disappointment.

The Russian, who knew advanced to politicians, he was realizing the efforts to Jaures keep the peace.
Still there were many who felt hopeless.

The, Tchernoff, commented these illusions sphinx's smile flattened.

He had his reasons to doubt ... But the bell rang another time, and the Spanish ran to open,
leaving his friend.

A man wanted to see Julio. He spoke French well, but his accent was a revelation for Argensola. Upon
entering the bedroom looking for his companion, who had just risen,
said with certainty:

- It's your cousin from Berlin who comes to
say goodbye.

There may be another.

The three men gathered in the study. Desnoyers presented to his comrade, for the newborn come
no mistake about his status.

- I've heard of him. The Lord is Argensola, a young man of great merit.

And Dr. Julius von Hartrott said this to the sufficiency of a man who knows everything and want
to please a lower, giving the charity of your attention.

The two
cousins ​​watched with curiosity not devoid of suspicion. A relationship
linking them intimate, but knew little, feeling each other a complete
divergence of views and tastes.

In considering Argensola to this
wise, I found some aspect of plainclothes officer. You could see in
him a desire to imitate the men of the sword when from time to time
civil adopt the habit, the aspiration of every German bourgeois to
be mistaken for those of upper class. His pants were tight, as if
they were destined to slip into in riding boots. The jacket, with
two rows of buttons, had gathered waist, wide and long climbs the
apron and very lapels, loosely imitating a military frock coat. The
reddish mustache on a strong jaw and hair cut this simulation to completed
rape warrior. But his eyes, eyes of study with the pupil mate, great
astonishment and myopic, they slept behind some thick glasses, giving
it a peaceful man. You can carry what
fish you can get to Malaga, and may take in a return cargo if you can get one. That will be
extra profit for yourselves. But you and your brother must agree to carry down the boxes of
fruit, and put them on board here. I am not going to pay porters for that.

"At what time will you start?"

"Shall we say six o'clock, senor?"

"That will suit me very well. You can come up with me, now, and bring the fruit down, and put
it on board; or I will be down here at five o'clock, and you can go up and get it, then."

The man thought for a moment.

"I would rather do it now, senor, if it makes no difference to you. Then we can have our evening
meals at home with our families, and come straight down here, and start."

"Very well; fetch your brother, and we will set about the matter at once; as I have to go out
to my farm and make some arrangements, and tell them they may not see me again for three days."

In two or three minutes the fisherman came back, with his brother. Bob went with them to a
trader in fruit, and bought twenty boxes of lemons and ten of oranges, and saw them carried
down and put on board. Then he handed a dollar to the boatman.

"Get a loaf of white bread, and a nice piece of cooked meat, and a couple of bottles of good
wine, and put them on board. We shall be hungry, before morning. I will be here at a few minutes
before six."

Highly satisfied with the good fortune that had enabled him to get the fruit on board without
the slightest difficulty, Bob returned into the town. It was but eleven o'clock now so--having
had but a short sleep the night before, and no prospect of sleep the next night--he walked
a mile along the road by the sea, then turned off among the sand hills and slept, till four
in the afternoon; after which he returned to Marbella, and partook of a hearty meal.

Having finished this he strolled out, and was not long in discovering a shop where arms were
sold. Here he bought a brace of long, heavy pistols, and two smaller ones; with powder and
bullets, and also a long knife. They were all made into a parcel together and, on leaving the
shop, he bought a small bag. Then he went a short distance out of the town again, carefully
loaded the four pistols, and placed them and the knife in the bag.

As he went back, the thought struck him that the voyage might probably last longer than they
expected and, buying a basket, he stored it with another piece of meat, three loaves, and two
more bottles of wine, and gave it to a boy to carry down to the boat.

It was a few minutes before six when he got there. The two sailors were standing by the boat,
and a considerable pile of fish in the bow showed that they had been successful in getting
a consignment from the other fishermen of the port. They looked surprised at the second supply
of provisions.

"Why, senor, we have got the things you ordered."

"Yes, yes, I do not doubt that; but I have heard, before now, of headwinds springing up, and
boats not being able to make their passage, and being blown off land; and I am not fond of
fasting. I daresay you won't mind eating, tomorrow, anything that is not consumed by the time
we reach port."

"We will undertake that, senor," the man said, laughing, highly satisfied at the liberality
of their employer.

"Is there wind enough for the sail?" Bob asked, as he stepped into the stern of the boat.

"It is very light, senor, but I daresay it will help us a bit. We shall get out the oars."

"I will take the helm, if you sail," Bob said. "You can tell me which side to push it. It will
be an amusement, and keep me awake."

The sun was just setting, as they started. There was scarcely a breath of wind. The light breeze
that had been blowing, during the day, had dropped with the sun; and the evening breeze had
not yet sprung up. The two fishermen rowed, and the boat went slowly through the water; for
the men knew that they had a long row before them, and were by no means inclined to exert themselves--especially
as they hoped that, in a short time, they would get wind enough to take them on their way,
without the oars.

Bob chatted with them until it became dark. As soon as he was perfectly sure that the boat
could not be seen from the land, he quietly opened his bag, and changed the conversation.

"My men," he said, "I wonder that you are content with earning small wages, here, when you
could get a lot of money by making a trip, occasionally, round to Gibraltar with fruit. It
would be quite easy; for you could keep well out from the coast till it became dark, and then
row in close under the Rock; and keep along round the Point, and into the town, without the
least risk of being seen by any of our cruisers. You talked about making money by smuggling
in tobacco from there, but that is nothing to what you could get by taking fruit into Gibraltar.
These oranges cost a dollar and a half, a box; and they would fetch ten dollars a box, easily,
there. Indeed, I think they would fetch twenty dollars a box. Why, that would give a profit,
on the thirty boxes, of six or seven hundred dollars. Just think of that!"

"Would they give such a price as that?" the men said, in surprise.

"They would. They are suffering from want of fresh meat, and there is illness among them; and
oranges and lemons are the things to cure them. It is all very well for men to suffer, but
no one wants women and children to do so; and it would be the act of good Christians to relieve
them, besides making as much money, in one little short trip, as you would make in a year's work."

"That is true," the men said, "but we might be sunk by the guns, going there; and we should
certainly be hung, when we got back, if they found out where we had been."

"Why should they find out?" Bob asked. "You would put out directly it got dark, and row round
close under the Rock, and then make out to sea; and in the morning you would be somewhere off
Marbella, but eight or ten miles out, with your fishing nets down; and who is to know that
you have been to Gibraltar?"

The men were silent. The prospect certainly seemed a tempting one. Bob allowed them to turn
it over in their minds for a few minutes, and then spoke again.

"Now, my men, I will speak to you frankly. It is just this business that I am bent upon, now.
I have come out from Gibraltar to do a little trade in fruit. It is sad to see women and children
suffering; and there is, as I told you, lots of money to be made out of it. Now, I will make
you a fair offer. You put the boat's head round, now, and sail for Gibraltar. If the wind helps
us a bit, we shall be off the Rock by daylight. When we get there, I will give you a hundred
dollars, apiece."

"It is too much risk," one of the men said, after a long pause.

"There is no risk at all," Bob said, firmly. "You will get in there tomorrow, and you can start
again, as soon as it becomes dark; and in the morning you will be able to sail into Marbella,
and who is to know that you haven't been across to Malaga, as you intended?

"I tell you what, I will give you another fifty dollars for your fish; or you can sell them
there, yourselves--they will fetch you quite that."

The men still hesitated, and spoke together in a low voice.

"Look here, men," Bob said, as he took the two heavy pistols from his bag, "I have come out
from the Rock to do this, and I am going to do it. The question is, 'Which do you choose--to
earn two hundred and fifty dollars for a couple of days' work, or to be shot and thrown overboard?'
This boat is going there, whether you go in her or not. I don't want to hurt you--I would rather
pay the two hundred and fifty dollars--but that fruit may save the lives of many women, and
little children, and I am bound to do it.

"You can make another trip or not, just as you please. Now, I think you will be very foolish,
if you don't agree; for you will make three times as much as I offer you, every thirty boxes
of fruit that you can take in there; but the boat has got to go there now, and you have got
to take your choice whether you go in her, or not."

"How do we know that you will pay us the money, when we get there?" one of the Spaniards asked.

Bob put his hand into his pocket.

"There," he said. "There are twenty gold pieces, that is, a hundred dollars. That is a proof
I mean what I say. Put them into your pockets. You shall have the rest, when you get there.
But mind, no nonsense; no attempts at treachery. If I see the smallest sign of that, I will
shoot you down without hesitation.

"Now, row, and I'll put her head round."

The men said a few words in an undertone to each other.

"You guarantee that no harm shall come to us at Gibraltar, and that we shall be allowed to
leave again?"

"Yes, I promise you that, faithfully.

"Now, you have got to row a good bit harder than you have been rowing, up till now. We must
be past Fort Santa Barbara before daylight."

The boat's head was round, by this time, and the men began to row steadily. At present, they
hardly knew whether they were satisfied, or not. Two hundred and fifty dollars was, to them,
an enormous sum; but the risk was great. It was not that they feared that any suspicion would
fall upon them, on their return. They had often smuggled tobacco from Gibraltar, and had no
high opinion of the acuteness of the authorities. What really alarmed them was the fear of
being sunk, either by the Spanish or British guns. However, they saw that, for the present
at any rate, they had no option but to obey the orders of a passenger possessed of such powerful
arguments as those he held in his hands.

Chapter 14: A Welcome Cargo.

After the men had been rowing for an hour, Bob felt a slight breeze springing up from off the
land, and said:

"You may as well get up the sail. It will help you along a bit."

The sail was a large one, for the size of the boat; and Bob felt a distinct increase in her
pace, as soon as the men began to row again. He could make out the line of the hills against
the sky; and had, therefore, no difficulty in keeping the course. They were soon back opposite
Marbella, the lights of which he could clearly make out. Little by little the breeze gathered
strength, and the rowers had comparatively easy work of it, as the boat slipped away lightly
before the wind.

"What do you make it--twelve leagues from Marbella to the Rock?"

"About that," the man replied. "If the wind holds like this, we shall not be very far from
the Rock by daylight. 

Don Marcelo looked at them one by one. The hardships of war, especially the accelerated speed
in recent days, were visible on their persons. Some were tall, thin, with a slender angular, others
square and chunky, with short neck and his head sunk between his shoulders. The latter had lost their
adiposity in a month of campaigning, wrinkled skin hanging and flabby in various parts of the face.
All had their heads shaved, just like soldiers. Around the table two rows of spheres glowed pink or
brown head. Ears protruded grotesquely, the jaw bone is marked with the relief of emaciation.
Some had kept the mustache, erect, to fashion the emperor, the most were shaved short whiskers
or with a brush.

A shining gold bracelet following a count's hand placed on the table. Was the oldest of all
and the only one who kept her hair a dark blond and gray carefully and shiny hair pomade. Near
fifty years, maintaining a force female, grown by strenuous exercise. Thin, bony and strong, he
tried to hide his rudeness of a man fighting with a soft and lazy negligence. The officers treated
him with great respect. Hartrott he had spoken to his uncle as a great artist, musician and
poet. The emperor was his friend, were known since youth. Before the war, some scandals of his private
life had been away from the court, shouts of folicularios and socialists. But the sovereign he kept
secret his affection for former classmate. Everyone remembered him a dance, The vagaries of Shahrazade,
represented in great luxury in Berlin on the recommendation the powerful partner. He had spent
some years in the East. In short, a great man and artist of exquisite sensitivity, while a soldier.

The
count could not accept the silence of Desnoyers. It was his guest, and believed the case to make
speak to intervene in the conversation.

When Don Marcelo was explained that only three days he had left Paris, they all cheered, wanting
to know news.

"Did you see some of the uprisings ?...»" Did the troops to kill many people? "How Poincaré was
the murder? "

I did these questions at once, and Don Marcelo, misled by its implausibility, not know what to
say. He thought he had fallen into a crazy meeting. Then laughed suspected him. "Uprisings? "Assassination
of President? ... Some looked at him with pity for his ignorance; other with suspicion, seeing
that pretended not to know about events that had developed along
to him.

His nephew said.

- The German newspapers talk a lot about that.

The people of Paris has risen fifteen days against the government, the Elysee assaulting and
murdering the president. The army had to used machine guns to impose order ... Everybody knows
it.

But Desnoyers insisted on not knowing, nothing had ever seen. And as his words were greeted with
a wave of malicious certainly preferred to be silent. His Excellency, higher spirit, unable from engaging
in the credulity of the vulgar, intervened to restore the facts. It's murder maybe it was
not true: the German newspapers were exaggerating with the utmost good faith. Precisely few
hours earlier he had made known the General Staff of the French government's withdrawal to
Bordeaux. But the uprising of the people of Paris and his fight with the troops was indisputable.
"The gentleman has seen no doubt, but do not want to say." Desnoyers had to contradict the
character, but his refusal was no longer heard. Paris! This name had done shine eyes, exciting
all the verbiage.

Wanted to reach as soon as the sight of the tower Eiffel, entering the city victorious, to
be fed with the deprivations and hardships of a month campaign.

They were worshipers of military glory, considered necessary for the war life, and yet complained
of the suffering that they provided.

The count uttered a complaint of an artist.

- What the war has hurt me! - Said languidly -.

This winter was to be premiered mine a ball in Paris.

All complained of his sadness, his work would be imposed after the
victory, and the French should applaud.

- It is not the same - continued
the count -.

I confess that I love Paris ... Too bad that these people have not
ever wanted to get along with us!

...

And he sank into his melancholy man understood.

One of the officers who spoke of the riches of Paris through the eyes of greed, recognized Desnoyers
suddenly he held the armband on one sleeve. It was he who had looted
castle.

As if divining his thoughts, the commissioner is excused.

- It's war, sir ...

Like the others! ... The war had to be paid to the property of the vanquished. Was the new German
system, the healthy return to war from ancient times: tax charges to isolated cities and looting
of houses.

In this way, overcame the resistance of enemy before the war ended. Should not be saddened
by the looting. Their furniture and jewelry would be sold in Germany.

Could make a claim to the French government to indemnify him after the defeat: his relatives in
Berlin would support demand.

Desnoyers listened with horror such advice. What mentality of these men! Were mad or wanted
to laugh at him?

...

After lunch, some officers were lifted, requiring their sabers to meet official duties. Captain
von Hartrott also rose: he needed to return to the side the general
had spent considerable time to the expansion of the family.

The uncle accompanied to the car. Moltkecito once again apologized for any damage suffered and
waste the castle.

- It's war ... We must be hard to make it brief. True goodness is be cruel, because then the
enemy, terrified, is delivered more quickly, and the world is less.

Don Marcelo shrugged his shoulders with the sophistry.

Were at the door of the building. Captain gave orders to a soldier, and he returned shortly afterwards
with a piece of chalk that was used to signs mark the property.

Von Hartrott wanted to protect his uncle. And he began to draw an inscription on the wall next
to the door: "Bitte, nicht plündern. It sind freundliche Leute ... "

Then translated, in view of the repeated questions of the old.

- It means: 'Please do not loot. The inhabitants of this house are nice people ... friendly
people. "

Ah, no! ... Desnoyers vehemently repelled protection. He did not want
to be nice.

Silent because I could not do anything ... But a friend of the invaders of their country! ...

The
nephew erased part of the sign and left only the beginning: "Bitte,
nicht plündern."

"Please not to plunder. "Then at the park entrance repeated registration.

Considered necessary this notice could leave His Excellency, the castle could be installed on
other officers.

Von Hartrott had seen much, and his smile implied that nothing would surprise him, by huge it
was.

But the old man continued ignoring their protection and laughing with sadness the label. What more
could loot? ... Had already been the best.

- Bye, uncle. Soon we will be in Paris.

The captain got into his car, after shaking a cold hand seemed to repel soft with its inertia.

Returning
to his house he saw the shadow of a clump of trees a table and chairs. His Excellency my coffee
outside, and forced him to sit beside her. Only three officers with him ... Greater consumption of
spirits from the cellar.

Speak German among themselves, and remained so Don Marcelo still
about an hour, anxious to leave and not finding the right time to
leave his seat and disappear.

Guessed out of the park is a great movement of troops. He spent another corps with deaf rolling tide. The curtain
of trees hid the incessant parade headed south. An inexplicable phenomenon shook the calm of the
afternoon light. It sounded to him far continuous thunder, as if the blue horizon rodase by
invisible storm.

The count broke off his conversation in German to speak to Desnoyers, who seemed interested
by the noise.

- Is the barrel. Has been engaged in a battle. Soon go into dance.

The possibility of having to abandon their property, the more comfortable
he had found in Throughout his campaign, put in a bad mood.

- War!
- Continued -.

A glorious life, but dirty and brutish. In a month, today is the first day I live as a man.

And as if he would appeal the amenities that would leave soon, he rose, turning the castle.
Two Germans marched into town, and Desnoyers was with the other, busy admired his taste in liquor.
It was the battalion commander stationed in Villeblanche.

- Sad war, sir! "- Said in French.

The entire group of enemies, this was the only one who had inspired
a feeling Don Marcelo vague attraction.

"While it is a German, looks good person", I thought seeing him. Should have been obese in
peacetime, but now offered outside of a loose, straight body who has just suffered a loss
of volume. Hinted at in a previous life of quiet and vulgar sensuality, a bourgeois that the
war had cut roughly.

- What a life, sir - he went -. May God punish those who caused this catastrophe.

Desnoyers was almost moved.

Germany saw that he had imagined many times: Germany quiet, sweet,
clumsy burghers and heavy, but they compensated for their original
rudeness with an innocent and poetic sentiment.

This Blumhardt, whom his fellows termed "Bataillon Kommandeur, was a good father. It represented
him walking with his wife and children under the linden trees a provincial square, listening
to all religious anointing with the melodies of a band military. Then I saw the beer with friends,
discussing metaphysical problems between two business conversations.

He was the man of old Germany, a character in a novel Goethe. Perhaps the glories of the Empire
had modified his existence, and instead of going Brewery to frequent the casino of the officers,
while his family stood apart isolated from civilians, the pride of
the military caste, but in the background was always Good German,
of patriarchal, ready to shed tears at a family scene or a piece of
good music.

Blumhardt commander remembered his people, who lived in Cassel.

- Eight children, sir - he said with a visible effort to contain his excitement -. The two major
prepare to be official. The child goes to school from this year ... So.

And he pointed with one hand the height of his boots. He trembled nervously laughing and grief
to remind your child. He then made a compliment to his wife, excellent head of household, mother
modesty is sacrificed for her children, her husband. Oh, the sweet Augusta! ... Twenty years of
marriage were passed, and worshiped as the day they were first time. Kept in a pocket of his
uniform all the letters she had written from the beginning of the
campaign.

- See it, sir ... These are my children.

He took from his breast a silver medallion adorned with art of Munich, and touching a spring
the was opened in rounds, like the leaves of a book, revealing the faces of all family: Kommandeur
Frau, a rigid, austere beauty, imitating the gesture and hair the
Empress, then daughters, Fraulin Kommandeur, dressed in white, eyes
sing high like a romance, and eventually the children with school
uniforms army or private institutions.

And to think he could lose to these loved ones with only a piece
of iron touch him!

... And had to live away from them now that was good season, the
time of the walks in the countryside!

...

- Sad war! - He repeated -. May God punish the English.

In an application moved by Don Marcelo made him turn to questions about his family. It is pity
to learn what their offspring was little, smiled a little at the
enthusiasm with the old man spoke of his daughter, Chichi saluted
like an imp Fraulin funny, put apologetic gesture knowing that the
son had taken great trouble with his behavior.

Nice Commander! ... It was the first man that was sweet man in hell
of the invasion.

"Everywhere there are good people," he said. He wished not to move the castle. If they were
to continue there the Germans had better have him than to others.

An orderly came to call Don Marcelo from His Excellency. Earl found in own room, after passing
through the rooms with closed eyes to avoid the pain a useless anger. The doors were forced, non-carpeted
floors, the holes without curtains. Only the broken furniture at first took their old places.
The bedrooms had been ransacked more methodically, disappearing only
what was not immediately useful.

The have stayed in them the day before the general with his entourage had escaped a wanton
destruction.

The count received him with the courtesy of a gentleman who wishes
to attend to your guests.

No Desnoyers could consent to Herr, parent of a von Hartrott - who vaguely remembered have
seen in court - he lived in a room with the porters. Should take their bedroom, that bed solemn
as a coffin, with plumes and columns, which had the honor hours prior to serving a famous general
of the Empire.

- I'd rather sleep here. The other room goes better with my tastes.

He entered the bedroom of Ms. Desnoyers, admiring his unfurnished Louis XV, a authenticity beautiful,
with muted golds and landscapes of his upholstery obscured by time.

It was one of the best buys of Don Marcelo. The Count smiled with contempt artist to remind the
head of the Administration official in charge of plunder.

"What an ass! ... To think that this has been left by old and ugly ... "

Then he looked in front of the owner of the castle.

- Mr Desnoyers: I did not commit any impropriety, and I even imagine that I play their wishes,
to express that I'll take the furniture myself. Will be a reminder of our knowledge, a testament
to our friendship that begins now ... If this is here runs danger of being destroyed. Warriors
are not required to be artists. I will keep these Prices in Germany, and you can see them anytime.
Now we're all going to be some ... My friend proclaimed emperor of the French sovereign.

Desnoyers was silent. What could respond to the gesture of cruel irony,
to look that the great lord was emphasizing his words?

...

- When the war will send a gift of Berlin - patronizing tone he added.

Neither answered the old man. I looked on the walls the void left several paintings small. They
were famous masters of the eighteenth century. He also despised the commissioner ought to have
by insignificant. Count a slight smile revealed his true whereabouts.

He had searched the entire piece, the room immediately, which was to Chichi, the fourth bathroom,
to the female wardrobe of the family, who retained, some dressed as Miss Desnoyers. The warrior's
hands were lost in the fine pleasure of studs fabrics, soft appreciating their freshness.

This contact made him think of Paris, in fashion, in the homes of
the great couturiers.

Rue de la Paix was the most admired by him in his visits to the enemy city.

Don Marcelo felt a strong mixture of perfumes that exhaled his head,
his mustache, all your body.

Several bottles of toiletries for ladies were on fire.

- What dirty war! - --- German said.

This morning I could take a bath, after a week of abstinence afternoon to take another ... By
the way, dear sir, these perfumes are good, but not elegant. When you have the pleasure of being
introduced to the ladies, I will give the address of my vendors ...
I use in my house essences of Turkey: I have many friends there ...
After the war I will make a delivery to the family.

His eyes were fixed on some portraits placed on a table. The count
guesses Madame Desnoyers saw the picture of Dona Luisa. Then he smiled
at the portrait of Chichi. Very funny: what he most admired about
her was her air of determination as a boy. Posed a glance broader
and deeper picture of July.

- Excellent waiter - he said -. An interesting
head ... art. In a costume ball would a success. What Persian prince!
... A white aigrette subject's head with a jewel, the bare chest,
a black tunic with gold turkeys ...

He continued wearing the eldest
son of Desnoyers imagination with all the splendors of an Eastern
monarch. The old man felt a principle of sympathy for the man by the
interest he felt for his son. Too bad they chose with such skill and
precious things they are appropriate! ...

At the head of the bed,
on a prayer book forgotten by his wife, saw a medallion with another
picture. This was not the house. The count, who had followed the direction
his eyes, wanted to show it. Shook the hands of the warrior ... His
haughty disdain é ironic suddenly disappeared. An officer of Hussars
of Death was smiling in the picture, collapsing thin and curved profile
of a fighting bird under his cap adorned with a skull and two femurs.

-
My best friend - "His voice was somewhat shaky -. Being that I love
in the world ... And to think that perhaps bat at the moment and can
kill you! ... I also think I can die! ...

Don Marcelo felt a novel
of the last glimpse of the count. He was undoubtedly Hussar an illegitimate
child. Its simplicity could not conceive otherwise. Only in his tenderness
was a father able to speak well ... And he was almost caught by this
tenderness.

Here the interview ended. The warrior was turned away,
leaving the bedroom, as if to hide his emotions. A few minutes sounded
on the floor beneath a magnificent grand piano that the commissioner
had not been carried by the opposing general. The voice of it rose
over the sound of the strings. Baritone voice was somewhat opaque,
but tremor communicated his passionate romance. The old man was shocked,
did not understand words, but the Tears welled in his eyes. He thought
of his family, misfortune and dangers that surrounded him, the difficulty
of finding his men ... As if Pulling music from him, dropped little
by little on the ground floor. Which artist man haughtily mockery!
What his soul! ... The Germans were deceiving at first sight with
its rough exterior and their discipline, they did not scruple committing
the worst atrocities. Had to live intimately with them to appreciate
such as they were. 

When the music stopped on the bridge of the castle.
An officer watching developments of swans in the waters of the moat.
He was a young doctor in law who acted as secretary about His Excellency,
a University man mobilized for war.

In talking with Don Marcelo immediately
revealed their origin. I was surprised by the order of starting to
be a teacher at a private school and before marriage. All plans had
been undone.

- What a calamity, sir ... What disorder to the world!
... And yet, we were many we saw reach the disaster. Must inevitably
occur some day or other. Capitalism: damn capitalism is to blame.

The
officer was a socialist.

"We have been waiting for you to come, Teddy," Captain O'Halloran said, "to hear Bob's story."

"Well then, you will have to wait a bit longer," the doctor said. "I have sent orderlies from
the hospital to all the regiments--including, of course, the Artillery and Engineers--asking
them to send me lists of the numbers of the women and children of the noncommissioned officers
and privates, and also of officers' wives and families; and to send with the lists, here, two
orderlies from each regiment, with baskets. I have been down to the town major, and got a list
of the number of women and children in the town. When we get the returns from the regiments,
we will reckon up the totals; and see how many there will be, for each. I think that each of
the boxes holds about five hundred."

The work of counting out the oranges and lemons for the various regiments, and the townspeople,
occupied some time; and it was not until the orderlies had started, with their supplies, that
Bob sat down to tell his story.

"Nothing could have been easier," he said, when he finished.

"It was easy enough, as you say, Bob," the doctor said; "but it required a lot of coolness,
and presence of mind. Events certainly turned out fortunately for you, but you took advantage
of them. That is always the point. Nobody could have done it better, and most people would
have done worse. I have been wondering myself a great deal, since you have been gone, what
plan you could possibly hit on to get the oranges into a boat; and how, when you had got them
in, you would manage to get them here. It seems all easy enough, now you have done it; but
that is all the more creditable to you, for hitting on a plan that worked so well."

Similar praise was given to Bob when he had again to tell his story, at the governor's.

"So you managed, you say, to slip out with the reliefs?" the governor said.

"Yes, sir. I had got a military cloak, and hat."

"Still, it is curious that they did not notice an addition to their party. I fancy you must
have had a friend there?"

"That, general, is a point that I would rather not say anything about. That is the way that
I did go out and, when I took to the water, I let the coat and hat float away for, had they
been found, it might have been supposed that somebody had deserted."

"I wish you could have brought in a shipload, instead of a boatload, of fruit, Mr. Repton.
They will be of immense benefit to the sick but, unfortunately, there is scarcely a person
on the Rock that is not more or less affected and, if your thirty boxes were multiplied by
a hundred, it would be none too much for our needs."

The oranges and lemons did, however, for a time have a marked effect in checking the progress
of the scurvy--especially among the children, who came in for a larger share than that which
fell to the sick soldiers--but in another month the condition of those in hospital, and indeed
of many who still managed to do duty, was again pitiable.

On the 11th of October, however, some of the boats of the fleet went out, during a fog, and
boarded a Danish craft from Malaga--laden with oranges and lemons--and brought her in. The
cargo was at once bought by the governor, and distributed.

The beneficial effects were immediate. Cases which had, but a few days before, appeared hopeless
were cured, as if by magic; and the health of the whole garrison was reestablished. Heavy rains
setting in at the same time, the gardens--upon which, for months, great attention had been
bestowed--came rapidly into bearing and, henceforth, throughout the siege the supply of vegetables,
if not ample for the needs of the garrison and inhabitants, was sufficient to prevent scurvy
from getting any strong hold again.

A few days after the ship with oranges was brought in, an orderly came in to Captain O'Halloran
with a message that the governor wished to speak to Mr. Repton. Bob was out at the time, but
went up to the castle as soon as he returned, and was at once shown in to the governor.

Illustration: Bob receives a Commission from the Governor.

"Mr. Repton," the latter began, "after the spirit you showed, the other day, I shall be glad
to utilize your services still farther, if you are willing."

"I shall be very glad to be useful in any work upon which you may think fit to employ me, sir."

"I wish to communicate with Mr. Logie, at Tangiers," the governor said. "It is a month, now,
since we have had any news from him. At the time he last wrote, he said that the Emperor of
Morocco was manifesting an unfriendly spirit towards us; and that he was certainly in close
communication with the Spaniards, and had allowed their ships to take more than one English
vessel lying under the guns of the town. His own position was, he said, little better than
that of a prisoner--for he was closely watched.

"He still hoped, however, to bring the emperor round again to our side; as he had, for years,
exercised a considerable influence over him. If he would grant him an interview, Mr. Logie
thought that he might still be able to clear up any doubts of us that the Spaniards might have
infused in his mind. Since that letter we have heard nothing from him, and we are ignorant
how matters stand, over there.

"The matter is important; for although, while the enemy's cruisers are as vigilant as at present,
there is little hope of our getting fresh meat over from there, I am unable to give any directions
to such privateers, or others, as may find their way in here. It makes all the difference to
them whether the Morocco ports are open to them, or not. Until lately, when chased they could
run in there, wait for a brisk east wind, and then start after dark, and be fairly through
the Straits before morning.

"I am very desirous, therefore, of communicating with Mr. Logie. It was ten: the artist was sleeping. Al again at
noon, continued the heavy sleep. After lunch, another visit to receive better news. Were two: the
young gentleman was rising at that moment. And his father retired furious. But when he painted
this painter? ...

I had tried at first to win a popularity with the brush, consider this company easy. Being an artist
you put over your friends, no other American boys occupation to enjoy life, pouring money loudly
for all to learn your generosity. With serene audacity, was launched to paint pictures. He loved the beautiful
painting, "distinguished" elegant, a sweetish painting as a romance and only copy the shapes of
women. Had money and a good education, his father was behind him ready to help, why not had
to do what so many others who lacked the means? ... And set about smearing a canvas, giving the title
of "The Dance of the Hours: A good excuse to copy girls and select models. Drew with frantic
speed, filling the interior of the contours mass of color. So far so good. But then hesitated,
remaining inactive before the painting, finally cornering waiting for better times. The same
thing happened to try several studies of feminine heads. I could not finish anything, and this
was some despair. Then he resigned, as that tends fatigued before the obstacle and providential
expected to help to save it. The important thing was to be a painter ... although not pints.
This allowed him to make cards with high aesthetic excuses to women cheerful, inviting them to
his study. Lived by night. Don Marcelo, to make inquiries about the work of the artist, could
not contain his outrage. The two saw each morning the first hours of light: the father to jump
out of bed, the way of his son study for get between the sheets and not wake up until mid afternoon.

The
credulous Dona Luisa invented the most absurd explanations to defend his son. Who know! Maybe
he painted at night, using new procedures.

Men invent Now many pranks! ...

Desnoyers knew these works night: scandals in the restaurants of Montmartre,
and fights many fights.

He and his band, to the seven p.m. believed indispensable frac or the smoking, were like a party
of Indians setting up in Paris the violent behavior desert. The champagne was in them a wine
fight. Broke and paid, but their generosity were followed almost always a battle. No one was as
quick slap in July and the card early. His father accepted gestures of sadness the news of some friends
who imagined making it flatter his vanity chivalric tale of encounters in which his eldest son always
tearing the skin of the opponent. The painter knew more of fencing in his art. Was champion of several
weapons, boxed, and even had favorite hits paladins wander along the ramparts. "Useless and dangerous
as all the drones', protested the father. But I was beating in the back of his mind an irresistible
satisfaction, a pride animal, considering that is stunned formidable was his work.

For a moment he thought he had found means to take away from this existence. Relatives Berlin visited
the Desnoyers Villeblanche in his castle.

Karl von Hartrott appreciated superiority with a kindly rich collections and a bit crazy for
his brother. Were not wrong: recognizing certain cachet to the Paris house and castle. Could
be used to complete and give sheen to a title. But Germany! ... The comforts of home! ... Wanted
that his brother once admired how he lived and the noble friendships that embellished his opulence.
And both insisted in his letters, that made the trip Desnoyers. This change of environment could
be modified to July. Perhaps seeing their replication wake up on the diligence his cousins, all with
a career. In addition, the French believe in the corrupting influence Paris and the purity of
the patriarchal customs of Germany.

Four months were there. Desnoyers soon felt a desire to flee.

Each with theirs, I could not ever seen with these people. Very nice, sticky kindly and visible
desire to please, but continually stumbling irremediable lack touch, by a desire to make their
greatness. The characters of Hartrott friends were expressions of love to France: the compassionate
love that inspires a mischievous child and weak need of protection. And this is accompanied with
all sorts of inopportune memories of wars in which the French had been defeated. All of Germany,
a monument, a railway station, a mere object of high, giving rise to comparisons glorious: "In
France you do not have that." "Certainly, in America you have not seen anything similar. "Don
Marcelo left, tired of so much protection. His wife and daughter had refuse to accept that
the elegance of Berlin was superior to that of Paris. Chichi, in full sacrilegious audacity,
scandalized her cousins ​​by declaring that he could not bear the oficialitos corseted waist and
immovable monocle, who bowed to the young with a stiff Automatic linking to their gallant a gesture
of superiority.

July, under the direction of his cousins, he fell into the environment
virtuoso of Berlin.

With more, 'the wise', had to tell. It was an unhappy, dedicated to his books, and considered
to the whole family with protective gesture. The other, second lieutenants or students Sword, showed
with pride the progress of joy Germanic. He knew it was a night restaurants imitation of Paris, but
much larger. Women that there had to be dozens here were hundreds. The scandalous drunkenness
was not an incident, but rather sought full will be indispensable to happiness. All great, brilliant,
phenomenal. The livers were enjoying themselves in platoons, the audience was drunk by companies,
the mercenary formed regiments. Experienced a feeling of disgust at the female subservient
and timid, accustomed to the coup, and eagerly seeking to recoup the big failures and disappointments
suffered in their trade. It was impossible to hold, like its cousins, with big laughs the disillusionment
of these women when their hours were lost without achieving anything but Drink plenty. In addition,
gross debauchery annoyed, loud, with advertising, a display of wealth. "This is not available
in Paris - said his companion, admiring the rooms huge, with hundreds of couples and thousands
of drinkers - no, not available in Paris. "is tired of such greatness beyond measure. He thought
going to a party hungry sailors, anxious to recoup a blow of all previous deprivations. And I
felt the same desire his father flee.

This trip turned Marcelo Desnoyers with a melancholy resignation. These people had much progress.
He was not a blind patriot, and acknowledged the obvious.

In a few years had transformed their country, their industry was powerful ... but resulted from
a deal irresistible. Everyone in your home, and hopefully will never happen neighbor's envy!
... But this last repelled immediately suspected he was optimistic businessman.

"They are going to be very rich - I thought -. Their issues go, and
being rich does not feel like quarrel.

The war with four madmen who dream impossible. "

The young Desnoyers renewed his Parisian existence, living always in the studio and performing from
time to time in the parental home. Dona Luisa began to speak of such a Argensola young Spanish
with great wisdom, recognizing that their advice could be very useful for your child. This
was not sure if the new partner was a friend, a teacher or a servant. Visitors suffered further questions.
The fans letters spoke of Argensola as a painter, painters only recognized him as a literary
superiority. He could never remember exactly where he had seen the first time. Age of those
who went to his study in winter afternoon, lured by the caress of the stove and red wines
to be concealed by the mother. Spanish thundered renewed liberally to the bottle and box of cigarettes
open on the table, talking about everything with authority. One night he was to sleep on a couch.
He had no fixed abode. And after that first night, went all in the study.

July ended up admiring as a reflection of his personality. I knew that Argensola Madrid came
in third class with twenty francs in his pocket for "violating to glory" in his own words! Seeing
as harshly as he painted it, using the same drawing childish and stupid, was tender. Only the
false artists, men "in office", the performers without thought, care about the color and other
ranciedades. Argensola was a psychological artist, a painter of souls. The disciple felt shock
and despair on hearing how easy it was to paint a soul. On a bloodless face, sharp chin like a
dagger, Spanish eyes traced almost to every ward round and struck him one stroke white point
of light ... the soul. Then, standing before the canvas, this soul classified with unfailing
eloquence, attributing all sorts of conflicts and crises. And such was his power of obsession,
that Julio saw what the other is imagined to have put in the eyes of roundness buhesca. The paint
also souls ... souls of women.

To be as easy this work of engendering psychic Argensola liked to chat lying on a couch or reading
the love of the stove while the friend and protector was outside. Another advantage this fondness
for reading to young Desnoyers, that would open a volume directly to the back pages or the
index, meaning "an idea" as he put it. Sometimes, in the classroom, he asked with aplomb to
an author what was his best book. And his smile implied smart guy who was a precaution to avoid
wasting time with the other volumes. Now you need not make these blunders. Argensola read by
him. When I guessed interested in one volume, immediate participation demanded: "Tell me the
argument. " And the "secretary" not only was the synthesis of plays and novels, but informing
him the "argument" of Schopenhauer or the "argument" of Nietzsche ... Then Dona Luisa almost
shed tears when they heard that visits her son dealing with the benevolence inspired by the rich:
"A little devil boy, but how well prepared !...»

In return for their lessons, Argensola received the same treatment as a Greek slave who taught
rhetoric to the young patricians of decadent Rome. In the middle of an explanation his master
and friend interrupted him:

- Make me a shirt tails. I guest this evening.

Other times, when the teacher felt a sense of animal welfare with
a book in hand beside the stove grunt, looking through the window
gray and rainy afternoon, suddenly appeared disciple

- Soon ... into
the street!

A woman is going to come.

And Argensola, with the gesture of a dog that shakes his wool, going
to continue reading uncomfortable in a nearby greasy spoon.

His influence declined from the peaks of intellectuality to intervene in the vulgarities of material
life. It was the mayor of the employer, the mediator between your money and those who forward to claim
cash in hand. "Money," he said curtly to the end of the month. And Desnoyers burst into complaints
and curses. Where was he out? The old era of regulatory hardness and did not tolerate the slightest
improvement over the next month. He was kept in solitary misery. Three thousand francs a month,
what could be done with this a decent person? ... Desiring to reduce, shaking the fence, directly
involved in the management of your home for Dona Louise could not make donations to the child. In
vain had been in contact with several loan sharks Paris, speaking of his property beyond the
ocean. These gentlemen had to hand youth the country and did not need to expose their capital in
the next world. Same failure with him when, with sudden displays of affection, wanted to convince
Don Marcelo that three thousand francs a month is a pittance.

The millionaire was roaring with indignation.

Three thousand francs a pittance! And the debts of the son she had to pay several times! ...

- When I was your age ...-- started saying.

But in July cut the conversation. Had often heard the story of his father. Ah, man greedy! What
gave no monthly income was more than the legacy of his grandfather ... And Argensola council,
ventured to claim the field. That land management confiding thought to Celedonio, the old foreman,
who was now a character in his country, and whom he derisively called "my uncle." Desnoyers
welcomed their rebellion coldly. "I think fair. Since you are of age.

"And then give the legacy, extreme vigilance in the household expenses, avoiding Dona Luisa around
money management. Thereafter, looked at his son as needed to beat an opponent, treated for his quick
appearances Avenue Victor Hugo with glacial courtesy as well as to a stranger.

A transient wealth for some time encouraged the study. Julio had increased spending, considered
rich. But the uncle of American letters dispelled these illusions. First, remittances exceeded
very little to the monthly amount you get from your father. Then declined at an alarming rate.
All the calamities of the earth seemed to have down together on the field, as Celedonio. The grasses
were scarce, sometimes from lack rain, others by the floods, and cattle were dying by hundreds. July
needed higher income, and the wily half-breed sent him what he asked, but as a simple loan
when booking the collection to settle scores. Despite such assistance, the young Desnoyers suffered
distress.

Circle now playing smart, thinking thereby compensate for its periodic shortages, and this served to disappear
faster than the amounts received American ... That a man as he saw troubled by the lack of a
few thousand francs! What he used to have a father with so many millions?

If creditors were shown threatening, resorted to "secretary." Was to see mamma immediately: he wanted
to avoid her tears and reproaches. And Argensola glided like a thief by the back stairs of
the mansion of the Avenue Victor Hugo. The location of their embassies was always the kitchen,
with great danger of the terrible Desnoyers get there in a their developments industrious man, surprising
the intruder. Doña Luisa was crying, touched by the dramatic words of the messenger. What could
I do! Was poorer than their servants; jewels, many jewels, but not a franc. Was Argensola who
proposed a solution worthy of experience. The good mother to save the Monte de Piedad taking
some of her jewelry. He knew the road. And the lady took the advice, but only gave him jewelry
medium value, suspecting that you would see more.

Late burst scruples made her at times in outright negative. Marcelo could know her, how horrible!
... But the Spanish considered demeaning out of there without taking anything, and to lack of
money, carried a basket of bottles Desnoyers rich cellar.

Every morning, Dona Luisa went to Saint-Honoree d'Eylau to pray for her son. Appreciated this church as
their own. It was a hospitable and familiar island in the ocean unexplored Paris. Discrete
crossed usual greetings to the faithful, people from the neighborhood of the various republics
of the New World. It seemed to be closer to God and the saints in the court to hear conversations
in your language. Moreover, it was after the manner of a hall through which passed the major events
of the South American colony. One day was a wedding, with flowers, orchestra and chants. With
her next Chichi, waving to people I know, after completing to the couple. Another day was the
funeral of a former president of Republic or any other Ultramarine character ending in Paris
his tormented existence. Poor president! Poor general! ... Dona Luisa remembered the dead. I
had seen in that church many times hearing his mass devoutly, was indignant that the bad language,
by way of prayer funeral shootings and memory were liquidated banks there in your country. A man
so good and so religious!

May God rest his soul! ... And looked out into the square with tender eyes of horsemen and
women on their way to Forest, luxury cars, radiant morning sun, all the cool childishness of the
first hour, recognizing it is very beautiful to live.

Her look of gratitude for what exists just by stroking the memorial
center square, all bristling with wings, as if to rid the soil.

Victor Hugo! ... It was enough I heard that name in your child's mouth, to contemplate the
statue with a family interest. All I knew was that the poet had died. That was almost safe.
But I imagined Living close friend of July, given the frequency with which he repeated his
name.

Oh, your son! ... All her thoughts, her conjectures, desires, converged on him and its irreducible
husband. Anxious that the two men were understood, ending a struggle that she was the only victim.
Would not God the miracle? ... As a patient changes sanatorium, to pursue health, left the church
in their street to attend the Spanish Chapel Avenue Friedland. This is still considered the most
from his people. Through of South America, clean and elegant, as if they had escaped from
a sheet of newspaper fashion, his eyes looked with admiration to other worst-dressed ladies,
plump, with Ermine theater and antique jewelry. To meet these ladies in the court, spoke with
loud voices and expressive gesticulations, vigorously cutting words. The rancher's daughter
dared to greet them, and have subscribed to all charities, and returned to see greeting felt
a satisfaction which made her momentarily forget their troubles. Were of those families who
admired his father without knowing why, came from what they called across the sea to "the motherland"
most excellent and very high for all the good Dona Chicha, and relatives
of kings.

I did not know whether to shake hands or bend a knee, as he vaguely heard it used in court. But suddenly
remembered their concerns and went on to direct their prayers to God. Oh, he thought of it!
Do not forget his estate for a long time! ...

It was the glory that was agreed to in July, in her arms of light.

Was suddenly with all the honors and rewards of celebrity. Fame cautiously surprised by tortuous
paths and ignored. Or painting of souls nor a full rugged existence of affairs provided expensive and
complicated mourning the young Desnoyers its popularity. The glory took him by the feet.

A new pleasure had come across the seas, to human happiness. The people were questioned in the
classroom with a mysterious tone of initiates seeking recognition: "Do you know tanger ?...»
Tango had taken over the world. It was a heroic anthem humanity suddenly focused their aspirations
in the harmonic swaying of the hips, measuring intelligence by the agility of the feet. An incoherent
and monotonous music of African-inspired, satisfying the artistic ideals of a society that needed
no more. The world was dancing ... dancing ... dancing. A dance of Cuba introduced black bear
jerky for the West Indies have won the whole earth in a few months, he turned his round, jumping
from one nation to victory ... same as the Marseillaise. Penetrated in ceremonial cuts, crumbling
traditions of modesty and etiquette, like a song of revolution: the revolution of frivolity.
The Pope had to become a teacher dance, recommending "furlana" against
the "tango", because the whole Christian world, without distinction
sects, was united in a common desire to shake your feet in a frenzy
as tireless as that of those possessed of the Middle Ages.

Julio Desnoyers, finding this dance in his teens, fully sovereign and triumphant Paris, turned
to her with the confidence that inspires an old lover.

Who would have announced as a student and frequented the dances most heinous of Buenos Aires,
guarded by Police, who was making the learning of glory ...

Five to seven, hundreds of eyes followed him with admiration in the halls of the Fields Elysees,
which cost five francs a cup of tea with the right to interfere in the sacred dance. "Has the line,"
said the ladies appreciate her body slim, of medium height and strong springs. And he, with his
coat bulging wrap waist and chest, the feet of women's smallness sheathed in patent leather
and white canes on high heels, dancing serious, thoughtful, quiet, as a full mathematical problem, while
the blue lights on the two dark curtains, tight and bright its forelock. The women solicited to
be presented to him, with the sweet hope of her friends envied seeing them in the arms of the
teacher. Invitations rained down on July. It opened before her most inaccessible classrooms.
Every afternoon acquired a dozen friends. The fashion had brought teachers from across the
sea, hoodlums in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, proud and confused to be acclaimed the same as a famous
tenor or a speaker.

But these dancers on a native vulgarity and that it did pay, triumphed
Julio Desnoyers.

The incidents of his previous life were discussed by women and gallant exploits of novelistic.

-
You're killing - said Argensola -. Dance too.

The glory of his new friend represented to him now. Its mellow readings before the were now
broken stove daily. Can not read more than one chapter. Man urged him famous with his orders
to march into the street. "A new lesson," said the parasite. And when alone, numerous visits,
all women, some questioners and aggressive, sometimes melancholic air of neglect, came to interrupt
him in his thoughtful entertainment. One of these was terrified with his insistence to the
inhabitants of the study. Was a North American, old problems, including thirty-two and fifty-nine
years, always with short skirts, which were gathered sitting indiscreet, as driven by a spring.
Desnoyers several dances and a visit to the rue de la Pompe accounted
for sacred rights it acquired, and pursued the master with the desperation
of a believer abandoned.

"If you are both taken prisoners, there is no reason for supposing that she would not be treated
honourably by the Spaniards. They must have taken numbers of women, in the vessels they have
captured lately, and I suppose the girl would be placed with them. She would, at any rate,
be far better off in a Spanish prison than in a Moorish one. Besides, I really consider that
all our lives are in danger, here. After the assault on Mr. Logie, it is just as likely the
emperor may order us all to be massacred, as thrown into prison; or he might sell us as slaves,
as they do at Algiers. There is no saying. I think that, if I were in the position of the girl's
mother at Gibraltar, I should say that it was better for her to run the risk of capture, with
you; than to remain here, where there is no saying what may happen--she having every confidence
in your honour, young gentleman."

"I thank you, Mrs. Hamber. I have no idea, at present, what plan I shall form. I may not see
any possible way of getting out but, if I do, we will certainly attempt it. Major Harcourt
belongs to the same regiment as my brother-in-law, and his wife and my sister are great friends;
which is why, I suppose, she has confidence in me. I have known Amy, now, for a year and a
half; and she is very often at my sister's. I will take care of her just the same as if she
were a young sister of my own. I don't see how I could go back and tell her mother that I left
her here, with things in the state they are. I only hope they may not turn out so badly as
you fear; and that, at the worst, the Moors will only hand you over as prisoners to the Spaniards."

Bob went back to the consulate, and told Amy the result of his conversation with Mrs. Hamber.

"I consider that has taken the responsibility off my shoulders, Amy. You referred me to Mrs.
Hamber as the lady you knew best here. She is of opinion that, if she were your mother, she
would advise your trying to get away with me. So, now, we have only to decide how it is to
be done--that is, if you still wish to try."

"Certainly I do," the girl said. "Anything is better than waiting here; expecting the Moors
to rush in, as they did the other day, and carry one off to prison, or kill one.

"Mr. Parrot--that is the gentleman you saw downstairs--said that you would stay here, and ordered
a room to be prepared for you; and dinner is ready. I am sure you must be terribly hungry."

Bob remembered, now, that he had had nothing to eat--save some biscuits on board the boat,
and a piece of bread at the wine shop--since he left Gibraltar, and that he really was desperately
hungry. Amy had already had her dinner; but she sat by him, and they talked about their friends
at the Rock.

"Now," he said, when he had finished, "let us have a regular council of war. It was my intention
to get a passage to Malaga, if I could, because I know something of the road back from there;
but I could not do that, with you."

"Why not, Bob?"

"Because the voyage is too long. Someone would be certain to speak to you before you got across
and, as you can't talk Spanish, the cat would be out of the bag, directly. If possible, we
must manage to cross to Tarifa. It is only a few hours across to there, even if we go in an
open boat and, now that the Spaniards are friends with the Moors, there ought to be no difficulty
in getting a passage across there, or to Algeciras.

"Of course, you can't go as you are," he said, looking at her rather ruefully.

"No, of course not," she said. "I am not so silly as that. I should think I had better dress
up like a boy, Bob."

"That would be a great deal the best plan, if you would not mind it," Bob said, greatly relieved
that the suggestion came from her. "It is the only thing that I can think of. There didn't
seem any story one could invent, to account for a Spanish girl being over here; but a ship's
boy will be natural enough. If asked questions, of course, our story will be that we had been
left behind here. There could be lots of reasons for that. Either we might have been on shore,
and the vessel gone on without us; or you might have been sent ashore ill, and I might have
been left to nurse you. That wouldn't be a bad story.

"What we must do, when we get to the other side, must depend upon where we land. I mean, whether
we try to get straight in by boat, or to wait about until a chance comes. Once over there,
you will have to pretend to be deaf and dumb; and then you can dress up as a Spanish girl--of
course, a peasant--which will be much more pleasant than going about as a boy, and better in
lots of ways. VIII .-- The canton of Fribourg Switzerland diligence .-- .-- Three Sister Lakes Morat .-- .-- Geography
of Canton; - its history - its institutions Panorama Freiburg .-- .-- The monuments and curiosities .--
The Chapel of the Magdalene.

115

CAP. IX .-- THE canton of Fribourg Berne Berne .-- .-- journeyman
artists and Topography .-- of Canton .-- History of the Republic Bern,
- its people and institutions .-- Productions, industry and most remarkable
objects .-- The city of Bern - their schools and places of interest.

"I will have a talk with Mr. Parrot, in the morning, about the boats. He will know what boats
have been trading with the Rock, and what men to trust."

"You can talk to him now, if you like," the girl said. "He and Mr. Logie's other clerk have
the top storey of the house."

"Oh, then I will go up and see him, at once; the sooner it is arranged, the better. If things
are in the state that everyone says, you might all be seized and imprisoned, any day."

Bob went up at once to Mr. Parrot's rooms, and had a long talk with him. The clerk quite agreed
that anything would be better than for a young girl to be shut up in a Moorish prison, but
he did not see how it was possible for them to find their way across to Gibraltar.

"Many of our fishermen are most courageous fellows, and have run great risks in taking letters
from Mr. Logie across to Gibraltar. I do not suppose that the blockade is very much more strict
than it was; and indeed, the fact that you got through shows that, with good luck, the thing
is possible enough. But that is not the difficulty. The strictest order has been issued that
no boat is to take Englishmen across to the Rock, or is to cross the Straits on any pretence,
whatever; and that anyone evading this law will be executed, and his goods forfeited to the
state. That is how it is Mr. Logie has been able to send no letters, for the last month; and
why none of the merchants, here, have tried to get across to the Rock. No bribe would be sufficient
to tempt the boatmen. It would mean not only death to themselves, if they ever returned; but
the vengeance of the authorities would fall on their relations, here. I am afraid that there
is nothing to be done, that way, at all."

"There are the three men who brought me across, this morning," Bob said. "They might be bribed
to take us back. The governor authorized me to offer a hundred pounds. I own that I don't like
their looks."

"You would have some difficulty in finding them, to begin with," Mr. Parrot said; "and I don't
think a hundred pounds would be likely to tempt them to run the risk."

"I would not mind giving them two hundred more," Bob said. "I have got that money, of my own,
at Gibraltar; and I am sure, if it were necessary, Major Harcourt would gladly pay as much
more to get his daughter back."

"Three hundred would be ample. If they would not run the risk for a hundred apiece, nothing
would tempt them. I should say your best plan would be to go down, early tomorrow, and see
if you can find one of them. They are likely to be loitering about by the quays, as they have
their boat there.

"The question is, are they to be trusted? They know that you have been sent out by the governor,
and that you are here on some special business; and they may very well think that the Spaniards
will give a higher reward, for you, than you can give to be taken back. They will, by this
time, know of the order against boats crossing; and might betray you to the Moors. If you were
going by yourself, of course, you could take all sorts of risks; but with this young lady under
your protection, it would be different."

"Yes, I see that, Mr. Parrot. Rather than run any risk, I should prefer being put ashore at
any Spanish port, by one of the ships in the harbour. If you give me the name of any Spanish
merchantman who was here, say, a fortnight ago; my story that we were left behind, owing to
one of us being ill, would be so simple that there need be no suspicion, whatever, excited.
Tarifa or Algeciras would, of course, be the best places, as we should only be on board a few
hours; and Miss Harcourt could very well pretend to be still ill and weak, and could lie down
in a corner, and I could cover her up with a blanket till we got there.

"Once across, I don't so much mind. Even if we were detected, we should simply be two fugitives
from here, trying to make our way to Gibraltar; and I don't think there would be any question
of my being a spy. We should probably be sent to wherever they keep the English prisoners they
have taken in ships; and there would be nothing very dreadful in that, even for her. We should
probably be exchanged, before long. There have been several batches sent in to the Rock, in
exchange for prisoners taken in prizes brought in by privateers."

"Well, I really think that that would be the best way, Mr. Repton. As you say, there will be
nothing very dreadful in detention for a while, with the Spaniards; while there is no saying
what may happen here. If you like, I will send one of the consulate servants out, the first
thing in the morning, to inquire what ports the Spanish craft are bound for, and when they
are likely to sail. They seldom stop more than two or three days, here. Most of them are taking
livestock across for the use of the Spanish army and, though Algeciras would be an awkward
place for you to land at because, if detected there, you would be more likely to be treated
as a spy; still, in a busy place like that, no one would notice a couple of young sailors,
and it would be no great distance for you to walk over to Tarifa, or any of the villages on
the Straits.

"But how do you propose to get in from there? That is what seems to me the great difficulty."

"Well, I got in before," Bob said, "and do not think that there ought to be much difficulty
in getting hold of a boat. The brother had protected its withdrawal, but
spite of this, the sensible Elena moaned through tears thinking of the German: "Poor thing!
All against it! "Meanwhile, the wife of Desnoyers retained his father in his office appealing
to all his daughter's influence judiciously. The French went in search of Karl, bad parts even
the terrible surprise, and gave him a horse to be moved immediately to the nearest railway
station.

Left the room, but did not stay single long. After a few days, "the Romantica left behind him ...
Iseo "of the white hands" went in search of the gentleman Tristan.

Madariaga's desperation was not violent and deafening, as he hoped his son. For first time he saw him
mourn.

Robust and happy old age suddenly disappeared.

In an hour seemed to have lived ten years. As a child, wrinkled and trembling, clung to Desnoyers,
wetting neck with her tears.

- It has been born! The son of a great flea ... it has been!

This time he did not regret the responsibility for their china. Wept beside her, and as if
to comfort with a public confession, he said repeatedly:

- For my sins ... Everything has been my very great sins.

Began for Desnoyers a period of difficulties and conflicts. The fugitives sought in one of his
visits to the capital, imploring his protection. "The Romantica wept, saying only his brother,
"the most gentlemanly man in the world" could save her. Karl looked like a faithful dog who
trusts his master. These interviews were repeated in all his travels. Then, upon returning
to the room, was the grumpy old man, silent, staring before him,
as though he saw something invisible to others, and suddenly saying:
"It is a punishment: the penalty for my sins.

"The memory of his early relations with Germany, before take him to the room, he was tormented
as a regret. Some evenings was saddled a horse, set off at full gallop to the nearest town. He did
not go in search of ranch hospital. Needed to spend some time in the church, speaking alone
with the images, which were there just for him, as it was he who had paid bills acquisition ...
"For my fault, through my most grievous fault."

But in spite of his repentance, Desnoyers had to work hard to get him a settlement. When I spoke
to regularize the situation of the fugitives, facilitating procedures
necessary for marriage, not let him continue.

"Do what you want, but do not tell me of them. "It took many months. One day, the French came
up with some mystery. "Elena has a son, and called him in July as to you. "

- And you, you big useless - shouted the farmer - and the cow loose your wife live quietly without giving
me a grandchild ... Ah, Frenchy! So the Germans end up piggybacking on you. You see, the bandit
has a son and you, after four years of marriage ... nothing. Need a grandson, do you understand?

To
console himself for this lack of children at home, went to the ranch foreman Celedonio where
a small band of mestizos were gathered, fearful and hopeful, about
the pattern old.

China suddenly died. Poor Misia Petrona went quietly, as he had lived, trying to in the last
minute to avoid any disappointment to her husband asking for forgiveness with his eyes by
inconvenience that could cause his death.

Elena came in the room to see the body his mother, and Desnoyers, who had more than a year
holding back the fugitives the father, took the opportunity to overcome this anger.

- Forgive her - said the landowner after a long resistance -. I do it for the poor deceased
and you. To stay at the ranch and that comes with it the gringo scoundrel.

No

treatment. The German would be an employee under the command of Desnoyers, and the couple live
in the administration building, as if they belonged to the family.

Never would lead word to Karl.

But just saw him coming, spoke to treat the "you", giving him orders rudely as same to a stranger.
After always passed along to him as if she knew. Finding at home to accompany Helen's older sister,
also went ahead. In vain, "the romantic" transfigured by maternity, took advantage of every opportunity
to put before him small and repeated his name loudly, "July ... July. "

- A son of gringo singer, skinned and white-haired kid carrot, want that is my grandson ... I
prefer to those of Celedonio.

And for more protests, entered the house of the overseer, distributing handfuls to the small
fry pesos.

After seven years of marriage made the wife of Desnoyers felt he was going to be a mother.
Her sister already had three children.

But what they worth to Madariaga, compared with grandson I was going to go? "It will be a man
- said firmly - because I need it as well. Be called in July, and I want to look my poor deceased.
"Since the death of his wife, who no longer called "China's" felt something like a posthumous
love for that poor woman who had so endured during his life, always shy and silent. "My poor deceased"
came to every time rancher in talks with the obsession of a regret.

His wishes were fulfilled.

Luisa gave birth to a boy, who was named in July, and although did
not show in their facial features, sketched still a strong resemblance
to her grandmother, her hair and black eyes and pale-brown complexion.

Welcome! ... This was one grandchild.

And with the generosity of joy, allowed the German entry into her
home to attend to the feast of the baptism.

When Julio Desnoyers was four, his grandfather as horseback riding
through the room, placing it in the front seat.

Going from ranch to ranch to show the populace copper, as an old
king who has to his heir.

Later, when the grandson able to speak loosely, be entertained for hours talking with him in
the shade of eucalyptus. Beginning to be marked in the old some mental decline. Pussy yet, but
his aggressiveness was taking a childish character.

Even in the largest expansions of love is worth the contradiction, bother looking at his relatives.

-
Come here, false prophet! - Said to his grandson -. You are a gringo.

July protesting as if insulted. His mother had taught him that he was Argentine, and Father we recommend
adding Spanish, to please my grandfather.

- Well, because unless you Frenchy - continued the rancher - he shouts: "Down with Napoleon!"

And
he looked around to see if it was close Desnoyers, cause to believe that a big hassle. But the
son went on, shrugging his shoulders.

- Down with Napoleon! - Said in July.

And had the hand immediately, while grandfather sought their pockets.

Karl's sons, who were already four, and moved around the grandfather as a humble chorus kept
at a distance, watched with envy these gifts. To please, a day just saw him resolutely approached,
shouting in unison, "Down with Napoleon!"

- Gringos bold! - Roared the old -. That is what you have taught them the scoundrel of his father.
If you keep coming back, the run to rebencazos ... Insulting and
to a great man!

This blonde offspring tolerated, but not allow any privacy.

Desnoyers and wife took the defense of their nephews, their fairness. And to quench comments
of its dislike looking to Celedonio, the best of the listeners, then replied to all: "Yes, pattern.
" "So be, boss."

- They are not at fault - the old saying - but I can not love them. Moreover, as like his father,
as white, carrot-haired frayed, and the two largest wearing eyeglasses the same as if they were
write! ... They do not seem people with those glasses: sharks appear.

Madariaga had never seen sharks, but he imagined them, without knowing why, with Glass round
eyes like pieces of broken glass.

At the age of eight years, July was a rider. "A horse Peoncita!" Grandpa
ordered.

Y out at a gallop over the fields, like sparks from among the thousands and thousands of cattle
horned. The "Peoncita" proud of his title, was due at all to master. And thus learned to pull
the loop to the bulls, leaving them trapped and defeated, to jump fences wire to his little horse,
a boat to save a deep hole to slide over the gullies, but not often shoot under his saddle.

-
Ah, gaucho fine! - Grandfather said, proud of these achievements -. Take five pesos to gave him
a handkerchief to one China.

The old man, in his growing mental Confused, did not give an exact account of the relationship between
passions and years. And the child rider, to keep the money, he wondered what china was that
and why should you a gift.

Desnoyers had to start his son the lessons of the grandfather. It was useless to him to do teachers
come in July or trying to send to the school of your stay. Madariaga kidnapped his grandson,
escaping together to take the field. The father ended up installing a child in a high school
in the capital when it was over eleven years. Then, the old set attention in the sister of
Julio, who was only three years, taking it, and the other, ranch to ranch on the front of
his saddle. Everyone called Chichi to the daughter of Chicha but the grandfather gave him
the title "Peoncita" as his brother. And Chichi, which raised strong and rustic, breakfasting
with meat and talking in her sleep of roast easily followed hobbies the old. She was dressed like a
boy, he rode the same as men, and to merit title 'gaucho fine' conferred
by the grandfather, had a knife in the back of the belt.

The two were in the fields from sunrise to sunset. Madariaga still seemed like a flag braid rippling
of the Amazon. This, at nine, and skillfully threw his lasso to the cattle.

What most irritated the rancher was that the family remembered his old age. Councils Desnoyers
to remain calm in the house welcomed them as insults. And advanced years, was more aggressive
and reckless, taking extreme activity, as if she wanted to scare to death. Allowed only help
of his mischievous "Peoncita." When to go riding came the Karl's children, who were already a big boy
to hold the stirrup, with snorts repelled indignation.

- Do you think I can not hold me? ... Even while I have life, and those who wait I die to grab
my weights are disappointed.

The German and his wife, kept apart in the life of the stay, had to suffer in silence these references.
Karl, in need of protection, living under the shadow of the French, taking advantage every
opportunity to overwhelm with his praise. I could never thank him enough for what he did for
him. It was his only defense. I wanted a chance to show his gratitude:
to die for him if necessary.

The wife admired his brother with great extremes of enthusiasm: "The gentleman most accomplished of
the earth. "And Desnoyers silently thanked the membership, recognizing that German was an excellent
companion. As available at all of the family fortune, Karl generously help without the old would
know. It was he who took the initiative so they could perform most of their illusions. The German
dream of a visit to his country. So many years in America! ... Desnoyers, therefore they had
no desire to return to Europe wanted to facilitate this desire to his brothers, and gave Karl
means that it might be the trip with his family. The old man wanted to know who paid for his
expenses. "Let them go - said with joy - and never return. "

The absence was not long.

Spent in three months what they had for a year.

Karl, who had made known to his relatives the great fortune that
meant their marriage, wanted to appear like a millionaire, in full
possession of their wealth.

Elena became transfigured, talking to pride of his relatives, the
baron, Colonel of Hussars, the commander of the Guard, the court counselor,
stating that all peoples were negligible beside the homeland of her
husband.

So it took some air protection praising Desnoyers, a man Well, certainly, but "not born",
"mongrel", and also French. Karl, however, expressed the same commitment as before, remaining
submissive modesty behind his brother. This was the keys to the box and was their only defense
against the terrible old ... He had left his two older children at
school in Germany.

Years later they were dating the same fate other grandchildren of the rancher, which he considered
unfriendly and inconvenient, "with hairs carrot and shark eyes. "

The old man was now alone. He had taken his second "Peoncita." The severe Chicha not could tolerate
her daughter be bred as a boy, riding at all hours and repeating
thick words of his grandfather.

I was at school in the capital, and the nuns educators had to struggle greatly to overcome the
rebellion and wickedness of their brave student.

On returning to Julio and Chichi stay during the holidays, focused his favorite grandfather in the
first, as if the girl had only been a substitute. Desnoyers conduct complained somewhat disordered
child. Was no longer in school.

His life was that of a student rich family that remedies the parsimony of their parents with
all sorts of imprudent lending. But Madariaga came out in defense of his grandson. "Ah, fine gaucho
!...» Seeing the room, admired his kindness handsome. Tempted him to convince the arms of his strength
will did talk about their fights at night, as a valiant champion of young bands licentious,
called street gangs in the argot of the capital. He wanted to go to Buenos Aires to admire
about the gay life. But alas! he had sixteen years and his grandson.

He had already gone from the eighties.

- Come, false prophet! Tell
me how many children you have ... Because you must have many children!

-
Dad! - Protested Chicha, which was always close, fearing the evil
teachings of his grandfather.

- Let's grind! - He shouted, irritated
-. I know what I'm saying.

Paternity inevitably contained in all
its romantic fantasies. He was almost blind, and the agony of his
eyes was accompanied by a growing mental disorder. His senile insanity
took on a lewd character, expressing itself in language which scandalized
or made everyone laugh the stay.

- Ah, a thief, and how cute you
are! - Watching his grandson said with eyes that saw only pale Shadows
-. The spitting image of my poor deceased ... Have fun, your grandpa
is here with his pesos. If you'd only to have what you give away your
father would live like a hermit. The frog is the hard fist: there
partying with him as possible. But I think of you, Peoncita. Spend
and triumphs, that's what your Tatica has collected silver.

When
the grandchildren were leaving the room, amused his solitude by going
from ranch to ranch. A mature mixed on the stove was boiling water
for their mate. The old thought confusedly that it might be his daughter.
Another offered him fifteen years of bitter zucchini liquid spliff
with silver to sip. A granddaughter, perhaps, though he was not sure.
And so I would evening, still and silent, sipping mate after mate,
surrounded by families who watched him with admiration and fear.

Each
time he took his horse for these excursions, his eldest daughter protested.
"At eighty and four years! Was not it better to stay quietly at home?
Any day they would regret a disgrace ... "And unfortunately wine.
The horse became a dark pattern with slow step and without a rider.
The old man was shot in a hill, and when I picked up was dead ...
Thus ended the centaur, as he had always lived, with the whip hanging
from the wrist and bowed legs, the curve of the mounting.

His will
he kept a clerk Spanish in Buenos Aires almost as old as him.

Carrie laughed.

"Well, never mind, Bob. Amy Harcourt is a very nice girl. A little too boyish, perhaps; but
I suppose that is natural, being brought up in the regiment. I am very glad that you have brought
her back again, and it will be an immense relief to her father and mother. Her mother has been
here three or four times, during these two days you have been away; and I am in no way surprised
at her anxiety. They will be in here this evening, certainly, to thank you."

"Very well; then I shall be round smoking a cigar, with the doctor," Bob said. "I am very glad
to have been of use to them, and to have got Amy back again; but I don't want to be thanked,
and you tell them so. I hate being made a fuss about."

And so, beyond a warm grasp of the hand, on the part of Major Harcourt; and two or three words
of hearty thanks, on that of his wife, the next time they met; Bob escaped any expression of
gratitude. But the occurrence drew the two families together more closely, and Amy often came
round with her father and mother, in the evening; and there were many little confidential talks
between Carrie and Mrs. Harcourt.

It was some time before the anxiety as to the fate of the English inhabitants, at Tangier,
was allayed. They were, at the beginning of December, forced to remove to Marteen, a few miles
from Tetuan--abandoning their houses and all their property, which was estimated at the value
of sixty thousand pounds--and, three days afterwards, were handed over as prisoners to the
Spaniards. They were then put on board a ship, and taken to Algeciras--where they were kept,
for nearly a month, prisoners on board ship--but were, on the 11th of January, 1781, sent across
to Gibraltar.

The next five months passed slowly and heavily. Occasionally, privateers and other craft ran
through the blockade of the Spanish cruisers, and succeeded in getting into port. Some of these
brought wine and sugar--of both of which the garrison were extremely short--and occasionally
a few head of cattle and other provisions. All of these were sold by public auction, the governor
considering that to be the fairest way of disposing of them.

On the 12th of April another great convoy, under Admiral Darby, entered the port. It consisted
of about a hundred merchantmen, under the protection of a powerful fleet. The joy of the garrison
and inhabitants was intense although, among the latter, this was mingled with a certain feeling
of uneasiness. Deserters had at various times brought in reports that, should Gibraltar be
again relieved, it was the purpose of the Spaniards to bombard the town. Hopes were entertained
that so wanton an act of cruelty would not be carried out, for the entire destruction of the
town would not advance, in the smallest degree, the progress of the siege. 

At this point, bringing Avocado Street, the two black crossed that of O'Reilly, and indicated Genevieve
pass, finger, Mary Rule the house, then closed, where he died the old lady talking. In the immediate
street from the pump, the guide turned left and called the third door on the right with the
customary cry of: Caserito! Not my decision na today?

Answered the call nothing less than Nemesia Pepper, known only from the seller and its parishioner
recently, completely unknown to the former nurse at La Tinaja. While that served pork, butter and
eggs they asked, it had been left something behind, stitched to the wing closed, reported to
taste a good portion of the room. Leaning against the side walls to the street, sat on a swing
feet on the rung of the chair before him, a young Mary Rule it seemed white. This color was
her dress, but the black cambric handkerchief belting his turning neck on the copious black hair
braids crowning fact the well-modeled head black shoes the golden carriage that held her little
feet high tops and arched bridge, the beautiful stranger wearing mourning in the body and heart,
as the deep sadness that we announce both his face and attitude. For garments clothes that
looked at the floor in the back of the chair and in the same lap, she started see stitching,
of whose work did not look up but at times your partner, which treated the same way, opened
the front door and helped to lay in the doorway the board's heavy selling.

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory of Mary of Regla could
not be more appropriate occasion, and so it was, then repeated in
a whisper, step behind its protective: - The girl Adela!

Adela girl!, Beyond comparison in its mind the face of it with the youngest of his love.

As the butcher hear the refrain, said in a tone of repression:

- Ah! That nine no Nama Adel, Sesil Nama.

Better to keep quiet, she thought the rule and said no word, but stood his ground, for As he
continued to believe that singular resemblance between the girl and the mourning of the house
across the street from the firehouse, whose description saved for
the first opportunity.

Even the two p.m. walked the black wandering the city streets and in the part time butcher achieved
silver reducing the effects had on the board. For popularly called the gate of the Wall, came
to Alameda and sat on a seat stone, protected by a leafy tree, between
the old café in Athens and the statue Carlos III.

A dirty canvas bag whose mouth was collected with a string, and wore Genoveva within, removed and
counted to twelve dollars in Seville ESP, and means royal silver of which, net of seven, more
or less cost of goods traded, played down a net gain of five dollars. No knowledge of the numbers required
to make account, and no more convincing argument to prove the remuneration
of that industry.

Convinced it was decided to adopt Maria de Regla.

He spoke after what she said about her husband, wound he had received in quarrel, by that same
neighborhood, and its disappearance from the day before Christmas Eve. Then Genevieve recalled
having heard from Malanga, who by that time had a tan that covered found badly wounded at the entrance
to Broad Street. This species was confirmed in all the forklift truck
parts water carrier, who just before his evil son, it will be recalled,
passed by and not stopped because he judged the wounded died.

A considerable body of troops were kept under arms, near the northern gate, in case the Spaniards
should attempt to make an assault under cover of their fire; and five hundred officers and
men were told off, to assist in the work of getting the supplies up from the wharves, as fast
as they were landed from the transports.

The bombardment continued during the whole of the next two days. The mortars still poured their
shells upon the town; but the guns were now directed at our batteries, and their fire was remarkably
accurate.

On the 14th the unloading parties were increased to a thousand men, and strong detachments
of troops were told off to extinguish the fires in the town; as the enemy were now discharging
shell filled with a composition that burned with great fury, igniting everything with which
it came in contact. The troops engaged upon this duty were not long in broaching the casks
of wine found, in such abundance, in many of the ruined houses. For two years they had been
living almost entirely on salt provisions, and wine had been selling at prices vastly beyond
their means. It was scarcely surprising, then, that they should take advantage of this opportunity.

The stores were practically lost, for the whole town was crumbling to pieces beneath the fire
of the enemy's mortars, and was on fire in several places; and little, if any, of the liquor
and stores consumed could, in any case, have been saved. However, for a time insubordination
reigned. The troops carried off liquor to their quarters, barricaded themselves there, and
got drunk; and it was two or three days before discipline was restored. Up to this time the
conduct of the soldiers had been most exemplary, and they had borne their prolonged hardships
without a murmur; and this outbreak was due as much to a spirit of revenge against the inhabitants,
for hiding away great stores of provisions and liquor, with a view to making exorbitant profits,
as from a desire to indulge in a luxury of which they had been so long deprived.

On the 15th the enemy's fire was hotter than ever; and the guns were withdrawn from our batteries,
as they produced but little effect upon the Spanish batteries, and the men working them suffered
a good deal from the besiegers' fire. Also this boy, skeptical for everything
that was not related to their selfishness, seemed infected by the concern general. When he awoke,
quoting her letter to the five p.m. also contained few words about the dreaded danger. Through their
way of love seemed to transpire concern in Paris. To go in search of lunch, the concierge, under
the pretext of giving welcome, had asked news. And in the restaurant, the cafe in the street,
always war ... the possibility of war with Germany ...

Desnoyers was optimistic. What could they mean these concerns for a man like him, just over twenty
days to live among Germans, crossing the Atlantic under the flag Empire? ...

He had left Buenos Aires on a steamer in Hamburg: the König Friedrich August. The world was in holy
calm when the ship away from land. Only white and mestizo Mexico revolutionary is exterminated,
that no one would believe that the man is an animal degenerate for peace. The people demonstrated
in the rest of the planet a unique wisdom. Even in the liner, the tiny world of passengers of different
nationalities, like a piece of the future society as a test implemented at the present time,
a sketch of the future world, without borders or racial antagonisms.

One morning, the music board, which was heard every Sunday the Choir of Luther, awoke to the sleepers
of the staterooms ence with the most unheard of dawns. Desnoyers He rubbed his eyes still live believing
in the dream hallucinations. Roared the German brass La Marseillaise in the corridors and decks.
The bartender, smiling at his amazement, he ended to explain the event: "Fourteenth of July."
In the German steamers are celebrated as large parties own all the nations that provide cargo
and passengers. Their captains scrupulous care to fulfill the rites of the religion of the flag and
the memory history. The bunting looks Republic smallest ship in his honor. It is a fun more,
which helps to combat the monotony of travel and serves the goals of the propaganda Germanic. For
the first time the big day in France was celebrated in a German ship, and while the musicians
were walking through the various floors a runaway Marseillaise, sweaty and hair down, the morning
groups commented on the event. "What delicacy! - Said the ladies South America -. These Germans
are not as regular as they seem. It is an attention ... something very distinguished. And
yet some believe that they and France are going to hit ?...»

The French contadísimos aboard the ship were amazed, as if they had grown disproportionately to the
public consideration. There were three of anything else: an old jeweler who came to visit their
branches in America and two young brokers, rue de la Paix, the modosita and shy people on board,
Vestal bright-eyed and snub nose, which kept apart, without allowing the slower growth in this
environment unwelcome. By gala banquet night there. In the bottom of the room, the French
flag and the Empire formed a colorful and crazy curtain. All German passengers were on their
tails and their ladies displayed the whiteness of their necks. Servants' uniforms shone like
in a day of great magazine. At dessert sounded the clatter of a knife on a glass, and There
was silence. The commander was about to speak. And the brave sailor, who joined his functions
nautical obligation to make speeches at banquets and dances open with the lady greater respect,
began development of a string of words like rubbings tablets, with long intervals of silence
hesitantly. Desnoyers knew a little German, as memories of their relationships with relatives
he had in Berlin, and was able to catch a few words. The commander repeated at every time "peace"
and "friends." A neighbor at the table, trade commission, offered as a performer, with the obsequiousness
of living of the propaganda.

- The commander asks God to keep the peace between Germany and France and expects each will
be even more friends of both peoples.

Another speaker raised in the same table in the ocean. It was the most respected German passengers,
a wealthy industrialist who came to Düsseldorf to visit his correspondents of America. Never
identified by name. Had the title of director of Commerce and for his countrymen was Comerzienrath
Herr and his wife was given the title of Frau Rath. "Ms Counselor, much younger than her important
husband, had drawn from the beginning of the trip Desnoyers care. She, meanwhile, made an exception
for the young Argentine, abdicating its title from the first conversation. "My name is Berta,
"Deng said, like a duchess of Versailles to a nice Abbe seated at his feet. The husband also
protested when they heard that Desnoyers called him "adviser" as his countrymen: "My friends
call me captain. I sent a Landsturm company. "And the gesture with which the industrial accompanied these
words revealed the melancholy of a man does not understand, despising
the honors he has to think only of those who do not possess.

While delivering the speech, Julio examined his small head and strong neck, which gave some resemblance
to a dog fight. Imaginary oppressor saw the high neck uniform on their edges giving rise to a double
stud of red grease. The whiskers jutting and stickers took a strong push. His voice was sharp
and dry, as if to shake off the words ... So the emperor was to launch
his harangues.

And the bourgeois bellicose, with instinctive simulation shrugged his left arm, placing his hand on
the hilt of a sword invisible.

Despite its fierce gesture and speech control, all German listeners laughed loudly at the first
words, like men who appreciate the sacrifice of a Herr Comerzienrath
when he deigns to entertain a meeting.

- He says funny things the
French - the interpreter said quietly -.

But they are not offensive.

Julio had guessed something like this to hear the word repeatedly Franzen. Realized about what he
said: "Franz, big kids, happy, funny, improvident. The things we could do together, the Germans
and they, if you forget the bitterness of the past! " Listeners Germans no longer laughing.
The counselor resigned his irony, a great irony, Overwhelmingly,
many tons in weight, big as the ship.

Now developed the serious of his harangue, and the same commission seemed shaken.

- He says, sir - he continued - who would like France to be very large and one day march together against
other enemies ... Against others!

And winking, smiling mischievously, with the same smile of common intelligence awakening in all this
allusion to the mysterious enemy.

In the end, the captain raised his glass director for France. "Hoc!" He shouted as if you send
an evolution to its reserve soldiers. Three times he gave the cry, and the whole mass Germanic
upended, answered with a "Hoc!" similar to a roar, while the music installed in the anteroom,
broke to play the Marseillaise.

Desnoyers was moved. A shiver of excitement up his spine. Became moist eyes, and drink the champagne
he thought he had swallowed some tears.

He wore a name French, had French blood, and that they made those gringos - the more often seemed
ridiculous and ordinary - was worthy of appreciation. The subjects of the kaiser celebrating the
big date of the revolution ... Believed to be witnessing a great
historic event.

- Very good - he said to other South Americans who
occupied the adjacent mesas -.

Admittedly who have been very kind.

Then, with the vehemence of his twenty-seven years old, rushed into the anteroom to the jeweler,
throwing his silence in the face. It was the only citizen of France who was on board. I should
have said four words of thanks. The party ended badly because of him.

- And why you have not discussed, the son of French? - Said the other.

- I am an Argentine citizen - said in July.

And it left the jeweler, as he, thinking that "could have spoken," gave explanations to those around
him. It was very dangerous mix in diplomatic affairs. In addition, he "did not had instructions
from his government. " And for a few hours it was believed a man who had been about to play a great
role in history.

Desnoyers spent the rest of the night in the smoking room, attracted by the presence of the
'lady counselor. "

Landsturm captain, moving a big cigar between his mustache, playing poker with other compatriots who
followed him in order of dignity and wealth.

His partner remained at his side much of the evening, witnessing the ebb and flow of the waiters
bocks loaded, not daring to intervene in this huge consumption of beer. His concern was to keep
an empty seat next to her to occupy the Desnoyers.

He had man- more "distinguished" on board because he drank champagne at every meal. He was of
medium height, brown, with a small foot - that forced her to pick their own under her skirt
- and his face appeared as a triangle in two tresses of hair smooth, black, shiny, which lacquer
plates. The opposite type of men who surrounded her. Also lived in Paris the city she had never
seen, after numerous trips in both hemispheres.

- Oh, Paris! Paris! - Said opening her eyes and pursing his lips to express his admiration when he
talked alone with the Argentinian -. How I would go to him!

And to tell him things that Paris was allowed certain confidences about the pleasures Berlin,
but with blushing modesty, admitting in advance that the world is much, much more, and she wanted
to know.

Julio, now walk around the Chapel Atonement, he remembered with some remorse Minister's wife
Erckmann. He, who had made the trip to America by a woman to raise money and marry her! ...
But immediately find excuses for their behavior. No one would know what happened. In addition,
he was not an ascetic, and represented a Erckmann Berta tempting friendship amid the sea. To remember,
I saw a racehorse imagination large, lean, rabid and long shanks. It was a modern German did
not recognize other defect to his country that the heaviness of their
women, fighting in his person the national danger with all kinds of
food methods.

The food was for her torment, and the parade the bocks in a torture den tantalesco. The slenderness
is achieved and maintained by tension of the will left more visible the robustness of the scaffolding,
strong skeleton with powerful jaws and large teeth, healthy, dazzling, perhaps gave rise irreverent
comparison to Desnoyers. "It's thin, but enormous," it said at the examination. But then he also
declared her most distinguished women on board, distinguished to the ocean, elegant style to Munich,
with colored dresses that were unidentifiable Persian art and remember the cartoons of medieval manuscripts.
The husband admired Berta elegance, secretly regretting sterility almost like a crime of high treason.
The German nation was great for the fruitfulness of their wives.

The Kaiser, with its hyperbole artist, had stated that the German real beauty must have the
height from of five feet.

When Desnoyers entered the den to take the seat reserved for him counselor, wealthy husband and
their comrades had the deck inactive on the green carpet. Herr Rath continued his speech with
friends, and listeners were removed the cigar from his lips to launch
grunts of approval.

The presence of July caused a general smile of kindness. It was France that came to fraternize
with them. They knew their father was French, and that was enough for that welcomed him as if
came straight out of the palace of the Quai d'Orsay, representing
to the high diplomacy of the Republic.

The proselytizing zeal made them all grant him Suddenly a disproportionate importance.

- About Us - continued the Minister, staring as if expecting to Desnoyers him a solemn declaration
- we want to live in friendship with France.

The young man nodded in July, not displayed inattentive.

He looked very good people were not enemies. For him, it could be said that friendship as
they wanted. All he was interested at that time was certain his knee looked below the table, transmitting
its gentle warmth through a double curtain of silk.

- But France
- the industry continued plaintively - shows surly with us.

Ago years that our emperor is reaching out with noble loyalty, and she pretends not to see it
... That you recognize that it is wrong.

Here Desnoyers thought he should say something, so he did not guess their real concerns.

- Maybe you do not do enough. If you returned, above all, what they took! ...

There was a stunned silence, as if the ship sounded the alarm. Some of those who had the cigarette
to her lips remained motionless hand to two fingers mouth, eyes wide open. But there was the captain
of the Landsturm to shape his silent protest.

- Return! - Said in
a voice that seemed muffled by the sudden swelling of neck -.

We have no need to return anything, because nothing we have removed. What we have we won with
our heroism.

The hidden knee became more suggestive, like the young man to advise
caution with its sweet friction.

- Do not say such things - sighed
Berta -.

That's just what Republicans say tainted Paris. A young man so distinguished, it has been in Berlin
and has relatives in Germany!

...

But Desnoyers to any statement made haughty tone felt a hereditary impulse aggressiveness, and said
coldly:

- It's like if I take away your watch and then I propose that we should be friends, forgetting
what happened. Although you might forget, the first thing I would give him back the clock.

Refused to answer so many things at once the counselor Erckmann that
stammered, jumping from one idea to another: compare the reconquest
of Alsace to a robbery!

... A German soil! ... The race ... language ... history ...

- But where has their willingness to be German? - Asked the young man calmly -. When you have
asked your opinion? ...

Councilor hesitated, as if he doubted between falling on the insolent or crush with contempt.

- Young man, you do not know what it says - Majesty said at last -. You do not understand Argentine
the affairs of Europe.

And the others nodded, suddenly stripping of citizenship that had
been attributed shortly before.

The counselor, with a rough military had turned back, and taking cards, letters distributed.
Resumed the game. Desnoyers, seeing himself isolated by this contempt quiet, felt like stopping
the game with violence. But the knee hidden advising was calm and no less invisible hand sought
his right hand and pressed sweetly. This was sufficient to restore his composure. "Ms advisor"
continued with eyes Fixed the progress of the game. He looked well, and an evil grin slightly
contracted ends your mouth while you mentally say, by way of consolation, "Captain, Captain! ... Do
not know what to expect. "

On the mainland would not have come closer to these men, but life on an ocean liner, with its inevitable
promiscuity, forced into oblivion. The next day, the counselor and his friends were looking
for him, exaggerating his kindness to erase all memory of irritation. He was a young "Distinguished",
belonged to a wealthy family, and they all had in their country stores and other business. All he
cared was to mention only his French origin. It was Argentine and all were interested in chorus
to the greatness of their nation and all nations of the Americas
South, where they had correspondents and business, exaggerating its
importance as if they were large Powers, gravely discussing the actions
and words of political figures, giving to understand that in Germany
there was no one not to worry about their future, preaching to all
them a future glory, a reflection of the Empire, provided that they
be kept under the influence Germanic.

Despite such praise, Desnoyers did not show the same diligence as before at the hour poker. The
counselor retired to his cabin earlier than usual. Proximity the equator gave him an irresistible
sleep, leaving her husband, continued with the cards in his hand. July, meanwhile, had mysterious
occupations that only allowed him to cover up after midnight.

With the precipitation of a man you want to be seen to avoid suspicion,
went into the den talking loudly and went to sit with the husband
and his comrades.

The game was over, and a waste of beer and thick Hamburg cigars served to celebrate the success
of the greedy. It was time for the expansions Germanic, intimacy between men, slow and heavy
jokes, stories uploaded color.

The presiding director with all its grandeur these pranks from friends, brainy Hanseatic merchants
enjoyed the ports of large loans in the Deutsche Bank or shopkeepers installed in the republics
of Silver with innumerable family. He was a warrior a captain, and to celebrate every joke
slow with a robust laugh that swelled neck, believed be at the bivouac among his comrades in arms.

In honor of the South Americans, tired of walking around the deck,
came to hear what said the gringos, storytellers poured into Spanish
thanks and licentious tales awakened in her memory for the beer plentiful.

July admired the easy laugh that they were endowed with all these men.

While the foreigners remained impassive, they laughed with loud laughter, leaning back in their
seats. And when the German audience remained cold, the storyteller appealed to an infallible remedy
to remedy their lack of success.

- A Kaiser told this story, and when he heard kaiser, kaiser laughed a lot.

No need to say more.

Everyone laughed, "ha, ha, ha!" With a spontaneous laugh, but brief; a laugh on three hits, as the
prolonging could be interpreted as a lack of respect the majesty.

Close to Europe, a flurry of news came out to meet the ship. Telegraph employees wireless worked
incessantly. One night, Desnoyers entering the den, he saw the Germanic notable slapping and
animated faces. Do not drink beer had German pop bottles of champagne, and Frau Minister, impressed
no doubt by events abstained from down to his cabin. Erckmann captain, seeing the young Argentinian,
offered him a drink.

- It's war - said with enthusiasm - the war that comes ... It's about time!

Desnoyers made a gesture of astonishment. War! ... What war is this? ... I had read, as all on
the display board a radiogram dinette realizing that the government Austria had just sent an
ultimatum to Serbia, although this will produjese the slightest emotion.
Despised Balkan issues.

There were complaints of lousy people, which represented the world's attention, distracting
him from more serious business. How could he be interested in this event the warlike counsel?
The two nations would eventually be understood. Diplomacy serves some times for something.

- No - fiercely insisted the German - it is war, holy war. Russia will sustain Servia, and we support
our ally ... What will France do? Do you know what will France? ...

July shrugged with a bad mood, as if asking to leave him in peace.

- It's war - continued the Minister - the preventive war that we need. Russia grows too fast and
is preparing against us.

Four more years of peace, and you're done your strategic railways
and military strength, coupled with its allies, worth as much as ours.
Best is to give a good shot now. We must seize the opportunity ...
War! Preventive war!

His whole clan listened in silence. Some do
not seem to feel the contagion of his enthusiasm. War! ... With imagination
businesses were paralyzed, the correspondent for bankruptcy Banks
cut loans ... a catastrophe more frightful to them that the killings
battles. But approved with grunts and nods the fierce declamations
of Erckmann. He was a Herr Rath, and also an officer. Should be in
the secret destination from their homeland, and that was enough to
drink in silence for the success of the war.

The young man thought
that the director and his fans were drunk. "Look, Captain - said conciliatory
tone - what you say may be illogical. "How could agree a war to the
industrious German? At times it was expanding its activities: monthly
conquered a new market, every year the trade balance appeared increased
in unprecedented proportions. Sixty years ago few had to manning its
vessels with the drivers punished Berlin by the police. Now its commercial
and naval fleets sailed every ocean, and there was no Germanic port
where the goods do not occupy the largest share of the docks. Only
needed to continue living this way, stay away from the warlike adventures.
Twenty years of peace, and the Germans are the owners of the world's
markets, beating England her teacher yesterday, in this fight without
blood. And all this would be exposed - such as playing his entire
fortune to a letter - in a fight he could be unfavorable? ...

- No,
the war - insisted the Minister angrily - preventive war.

"I need not ask if you have succeeded, Mr. Lyons," the captain said, as the boats came up,
"for we have seen that. You have not had many casualties, I hope?"

"Only one, sir. One of the marines has a ball in his shoulder. There were only five or six
shots fired, in all, and no one else has as much as a scratch."

"I am truly glad to hear it," the captain said. "It has been a most successful surprise. I
don't think the boats can have suffered, either."

"I don't think there was a shot fired at them, sir," the lieutenant said. "The Spaniard ran
up his colours and dropped them again, directly the boats showed their lights. I fancy they
must have suffered very heavily from our fire. You see, they were almost under our guns, and
we must have pretty well torn up their decks."

"We shall soon hear," the captain said. "The boats are towing the Spaniard out. She will be
alongside in a few minutes."

The wind had entirely dropped now and, in a short time, the Spaniard was brought close alongside
the frigate, and Mr. Rawdon came on board to report.

"The ship is the San Joaquin, mounting twenty-four guns, with a crew of two hundred and twenty
men, sir. Her casualties are very heavy. The men had just poured up on deck, it seems, when
the battery opened fire. The captain, first lieutenant, and fifty-six men are killed, and there
are forty-three wounded. We have no casualties. Their flag came down, just as we got alongside."

"Then, as far as we are concerned," the captain said, "this is one of the most bloodless victories
on record. There will be no death promotions this time, gentlemen, but I am sure you won't
mind that. It has been a most admirably managed affair, altogether; and I am sure that it will
be appreciated by my lords of the admiralty.

"You will take command of her at present, Mr. Lyons, with the crew now on board. Dr. Colfax
and his assistant will go off with you, to attend to the wounded, and will remain on board
until we get into Gibraltar.

"Mr. Rawdon, you will be acting first, and I can only say that I hope you will be confirmed."

The frigate and her prize at once sailed for Gibraltar. On their arrival there, the captain
took some pains--by sending up larger yards, and by repainting the broad white streaks showing
the portholes--to restore the prize to its proper appearance as a ship of war.

"We should not get half so much credit for her capture, if you took her into Portsmouth looking
like a lubberly merchantman," the captain said to Mr. Lyons. "I don't care about patching up
all those shot holes in the bulwarks. That gives her the appearance of having been taken after
a sharp action, and the deck looks almost like a ploughed field.

"I shall give you fifty men, Mr. Lyons, I can't spare more than that."

"That will do, sir. Nothing smaller than ourselves is likely to interfere with us and, if a
large frigate engaged us, we should not have more chance with a hundred men on board than with
fifty. In that case we shall have to trust to our legs. Of course, if we fall in with two or
three of the enemy's ships, I should run up the Spanish flag. I will find out if I can, from
the prisoners, what is her private number. If I hoist that, and a Spanish flag, it ought to
deceive them. I will get her back to England, if possible, sir."

"You will, of course, take home my report, Mr. Lyons. It is sure to give you your step, I think."

Next day the San Joaquin sailed and, six weeks later, a sloop of war brought despatches to
the admiral. Among them was a letter from the admiralty to Captain Langton, expressing their
gratification at the very able arrangements by which he had captured and silenced a Spanish
battery; and cut out the sloop of war, San Joaquin, anchored under its guns, without any loss
of life. It was, they said, a feat almost without parallel. They stated that they had, in accordance
with his recommendation, promoted Mr. Lyons to the rank of commander; and they confirmed Mr.
Rawdon in rank of first lieutenant, the third lieutenant becoming second, and the senior passed
midshipman, Mr. Outram, being promoted to that of third lieutenant.

No change of any importance had taken place at Gibraltar, during the absence of the Brilliant;
except that the governor had determined to retaliate for the nightly annoyance of the gunboats
and, accordingly, six guns were fixed at a very considerable elevation behind the Old Mole,
and shells fired from them. These reached the enemy's camp; and caused, as could be seen from
the heights, great alarm and confusion. It was determined that in future, when the enemy's
gunboats bombarded our camps and huts, we should retaliate by throwing shells into their camp.

The day after the Brilliant returned the Helena, sloop of war--with fourteen small guns--was
seen working in towards the Rock. The wind, however, was so light that she scarcely moved through
the water. Fourteen Spanish gunboats came out to cut her off. For a time she maintained a gallant
contest, against odds that seemed overwhelming; although the garrison gave her up as lost.
But when the wind suddenly freshened, she sailed through her opponents into the port; where
she was received, with ringing cheers, by the soldiers lining the batteries.

Week after week passed in minor hostilities. There was a constant exchange of fire between
our batteries and those of the enemy. The gunboats continued their operations; and we, in return,
shelled their camp. Fresh works were erected, on both sides. Casualties took place almost daily,
but both troops and inhabitants were now so accustomed to the continual firing that they went
about their ordinary avocations, without paying any attention to the shot and shell, unless
one of the latter fell close at hand.

November came in and, in spite of the heavy fire maintained by our batteries, the enemy's works
continually advanced towards the Rock; and when, in the middle of the month, it was seen that
the new batteries were being armed and placed in readiness to open fire, the governor determined
to take the offensive. Accordingly, after gunfire on the evening of the twenty-sixth, an order
was issued for all the grenadier and light infantry companies--with the 12th, and Hardenberg's
Regiment--to assemble, at twelve o'clock at night--with a party of Engineers, and two hundred
workmen from the line regiments--for a sortie upon the enemy's batteries. The 39th and 59th
Regiments were to parade, at the same hour, to act as support to the attacking party. A hundred
sailors from the ships of war were to accompany them. The attacking party numbered 1014 rank
and file, besides officers and noncommissioned officers. This was exclusive of the two regiments
forming the supports. The attacking force was divided into three columns.

At a quarter to three in the morning, the column moved out. The enemy's pickets discovered
the advance, as soon as it passed the outlying work known as Forbes' Barrier and, after firing,
fell back. Lieutenant Colonel Hugo's column, which was in front, pushed on rapidly; and entered
the enemy's lines without opposition, when the pioneers began to dismantle the work. Hardenberg's
Regiment and the central column attacked and carried the tremendous work known as the San Carlos
Battery. The enemy were unable to withstand, for a moment, the fierce attack of the troops
and, in a very short time, the whole of the advanced works were in our hands.

The leading corps formed up, to resist any attempt the enemy might make to repel the sortie;
and the working parties began to destroy the enemy's work. Faggots dipped in tar were laid
against the fascines and gabions and, in a short time, columns of fire and smoke rose from
all parts of the works occupied. In an hour, the object of the sortie was effected. Trains
were laid to the magazines, and the troops fell back. Just as they reached the town, the principal
magazine blew up, with a tremendous explosion.

The enemy appeared to have been wholly confounded, at this sudden attack upon their advanced
works--the fugitives from which created a panic throughout the whole army--and although the
main Spanish lines, mounting a hundred and thirty-five heavy pieces of artillery, were but
a few hundred yards behind the works attacked, not a single shot was fired at the troops engaged.
The batteries continued burning for three days and, when they ceased to smoke, nothing but
heaps of sand remained of the works that had cost the enemy months of labour to erect. Committed a great
need and desire to punish and deserves. I fear resist. He's handsome check.

- Do not be sorry for that lady.

I'm going to bring moored alongside.

- My royalty is safe.

- I do not take the money, it takes me only that they who should pay that. I meet with the orders
of my boss, His Excellency Mr. Francisco Dionisio Vives, who, with the approval of His Majesty the
King, may God keep you many years, has commissioned me to turn to offenders of color.

Mary left early for home rule in the streets of San Ignacio, called the gate the best-looking,
he sent the paper to the lady, and sitting in the doorway, while resting came the response, invariably
reduced the housekeeper had many servants and did not need any rent. You had to denigrate people
of color from serving another person the master, that kind of idiosyncrasy Rule Mary had no suspicion
but not after many disappointments and deceptions similar to that just mentioned. Not really
entertained her intention or expectation of tenant or master, both the highly repugnant, estimating
either end as the greatest misfortune that could ensue.

If it had been women able to show the face at first sight the emotions of the spirit, the more myopic
would have seen how red with embarrassment each time he drew the role of breast to give the
servant came to open the door.

His intention, hope, more vehement desire of his soul to seek the return to Havana Dionisio was
looking for to join him if he was alive, or killing if he had died.
So, far from feeling it, experiencing a sort of secret delight whenever
the returned accompanied by a paper not dry and decisive. But the
time was that she had been granted on short, fixed, and had taken
several days in vain formalities, if fulfilled, and it showed landlord
nor master, what would his wife, a woman of character so strong and
bitter with his slaves?
When first heard, the sound is as a faint murmur; increasing, as it approaches, to a sound
resembling the blowing off of steam by an express engine, as it rushes through a station. At
first, the keenest ear could not tell the direction in which the shot is travelling but, as
it approaches, the difference in the angle becomes perceptible to the ear, and a calm listener
will distinguish whether it will pass within twenty or thirty yards, to the right or left.
It would require an extraordinary acute ear to determine more closely than this, the angle
of flight being so very small, until the shot approaches almost within striking distance.

The garrison had been trying experiments with carcasses and red-hot shot. A carcass is a hollow
shot, or shell, pierced with holes; but instead of being charged with powder, to explode it
either by means of a fuse or by percussion, it is filled with a fierce-burning composition
so that, upon falling, it will set on fire anything inflammable near it. Red-hot shot are fired
by putting a wet wad in over the dry wad, next to the powder. The red-hot shot is then run
into the gun, and rammed against the wet wad; and the gun fired in the usual way. The carcasses
several times set fire to the enemy's works, but the use of the red-hot shot was reserved for
a pressing emergency. A number of furnaces were constructed, in the various batteries, for
heating the shot; which necessarily required a considerable amount of time, to bring them to
a white heat.

News came, in April, that great preparations were making, at Cadiz and other Mediterranean
ports, for a fresh and vigorous attack on Gibraltar; and that the Duc de Crillon--who had lately
captured Minorca--would bring twenty thousand French and Spanish troops, in addition to those
at present engaged in the siege; that a large fleet would also be present, and that the principal
attack would be made by means of ships turned into floating batteries, and protected by an
immense thickness of cork, or other wood. It was dangerous
to catch him in that place. But to lose her twins, something extraordinary happened by field
of view of the lens. Within walking distance, as if to touch his hand, saw many men who marched
under the trees on both sides of the road. His surprise was still greater than the French were
convinced that, for all wore his vest. Where did ...? The re-examined without the aid of the
twins, now close to the barricade. They were behind, in a lamentable state, offering a colorful variety
of uniforms, soldiers line, Zouaves, dragons without a horse. And mixed with them, guards and gendarmes
belonging to people who had received the news late withdrawal. Overall, about fifty. Had whole
and strong, others are held with a superhuman effort. All kept their weapons.

They reached the barricade, continually looking back to monitor, under
the trees, the slow progress of the Hulan.

In front of this heterogeneous army officer was gendarmerie old and obese, with a revolver in his
right hand, his mustache bristling with excitement and brilliance murderer in her blue eyes shadowed
by the heaviness of her eyelids. They slid across the barrier of cars without looking at this
fellow curious. Iban to continue his progress through the town, rang a huge explosion, shaking
the horizon in front of them, making shake houses.

- What is that? - Asked the officer looking for the first time to
Desnoyers.

This provided an explanation: it was the bridge, which had just been destroyed. An oath of the chief
welcomed the news.

But his confused troops, clustered random encounter, remained indifferent
as if he had lost all touch with reality.

- The same die here than
elsewhere - the official continued.

Many of the fugitives with a prompt obedience thanked the decision, which will deliver the torture
of walking. Most were glad they cut blasting step. Were standing instinctively covered places of
the barricade. Others were introduced in a abandoned houses whose doors had violated the dragons
to use upstairs. Everyone seemed pleased to be able to rest while
fighting.

The officer was a another group to communicate their orders. They were not to fire until he
give the speech.

Don Marcelo witnessed such arrangements with the immobility of surprise.

Been so rapid onset and unheard of stragglers still imagined to be dreaming. Could not be a danger
in this situation unreal was all a lie. He went into place without
understanding the lieutenant, ordering him to escape with harsh words.

Paisano stubborn!

...

The echo of the explosion had filled the road riders. Coming from every angle, joining the primitive
group. The Hulan galloped with the certainty that the town was abandoned.

- Fire! ...

Desnoyers was enveloped in a cloud of crackling, as if the wooden stumps all trees had before his eyes.

The
squad stopped abruptly violent. Several men rolled on the ground.

Some were built to jump out of the way, bending, in order to become
less visible.

Other remained lying on his back or face down, arms in front.

Horses without Rider began a mad gallop through the fields, with the reins to the sled, spurred
by loose brackets.

And after the hard swing that made him suffer shock and death, scattered, disappearing almost instantly
absorbed by the trees.

IV

Next to the sacred grove

Argensola had a new job more exciting than to point to the location on the map of hosts.

- I do now to continue to taube - said to his friends -. We present four to five, with timeliness of
a right person who comes to tea.

Every afternoon, at the hour mentioned, a German plane flew over Paris, dropping bombs. The intimidation
did not produce terror: people accepted the visit as a special show and interesting. In vain
flyers dropped on the city with ironic German flag messages realizing the retreating army defeats
and failures of the offensive Russian. Lies, all lies! In vain dropping bombs, destroying and killing
dormers wounding or old, women and children. "Ah, brigands!" The crowd shook his fist the evil
mosquito, barely visible to two thousand feet high, and after this
relief eyes followed him from street to street or are immobilized
in their seats to watch developments.

A viewer of the most punctual was Argensola. At four was in the Place de la Concorde face up
and eyes open, next to other people linked to him by friendly companion relationships. They
were like the subscribers to the same theater, in force seen end up being friends. "Will he come?
... Do not come today? "Women seemed the most vehement. Some had flushed and panting by the
haste, fearing she had come late to the show ... A huge shout: "It's coming! ... There he is!
"Thousands of hands indicated a point on the horizon vague. Dragged on the faces of twins
and glasses; sellers Popular items offered all kinds of optical ...
And for an hour was developing exciting spectacle of aerial hunting,
noisy and useless.

The insect tries to put the Eiffel Tower, and the base of this arose booms, while its various platforms
fierce strumming spitting machine guns. When turning on the city musketry sounded on the roof and bottom
of streets. All pulled: the neighbors who had a gun in your home, soldiers on duty, British and Belgian
soldiers visiting Paris.

They knew that their shots were useless, but threw for the sake of harassing the enemy even if
only with the intention, waiting that chance, in one of his whims, perform a miracle. But the only
miracle was not shooters killed one another with this rash and fruitless fire. Even so, some
passersby wounded by bullets falling unknown origin.

Argensola going from street to street uproar following the enemy bird, trying to guess where their
shells were falling, wanting to be among the first that arrived in front of the house bombed
emboldened by downloads that answered from below. Not having him as a rifle the British or
those khaki-clad Belgian barracks cap and a tassel on the front! ... Finally, the Tauber, tired
of developments, disappeared. "See you tomorrow - I thought the Spanish -. The morning is perhaps
more interesting. "

The hours between geographic observations and contemplations of used air to roam around the seasons - especially
the Quai d'Orsay - the crowd watching of passengers who escaped from Paris. The sudden vision of the
truth - after illusions that the government had created optimism parts - the certainty that
the Germans were next, when a week before the imagined many in full defeat, the flying Taubes
on Paris, the mysterious threat of Zeppelins, getting crazy part of the neighborhood. Stations,
military guarded, admitting only those who had purchased a ticket advance. Some waited for days
to receive it turn out. The more eager to set off on foot, hoping
sooner be out of town.

Black are the roads with the crowds made their way through them, all in the same direction. Iban
south by car, cab, a gardener in carts, on foot.

This leakage Argensola gazed calmly. He was of those who stayed. Had admired many men because
they witnessed the siege of Paris in 1870. Now his luck gave him
the witness of a historical drama perhaps more interesting.

What might have in the future! ... But was bothered by the distraction and indifference of
his audience present. Returned to study pleased with the news that he was the bearer, to communicate
Descoyers feverish, and this I listened as if he could hear. The night I told him that the government,
Chambers, the diplomatic corps and to the artists of the Comedie Francaise were coming to those
hours in special trains to Bordeaux, his companion answered with a shrug.

Others were their concerns.

In the morning he had received a letter from Margaret: Two simple lines drawn in haste. Was leaving,
accompanied immediately went to her mother. Goodbye ... And nothing else. The panic had forgotten
many affections, cut long-term relationships, but she was superior in character to these inconsistencies
from anxiety to flee. July saw something disturbing in its brevity. Why did not indicate the
place where he was going? ...

In the afternoon took a dare that she had always forbidden. He entered the house Margaret lived,
speaking at length with the goalkeeper to acquire news.

The good woman expansion could thus give his loquacity, abruptly
cut off by the flight of tenants and servitude.

The lady on the main floor - the mother of Margaret - had been the last to leave the house,
notwithstanding that he was sick since the departure of his son. Had left the day before, without
saying where they went. All I knew was that they had taken the train
Orsay station.

They fled to the South, like all rich.

And extended his revelations with the vague news that the daughter was very impressed by reports
he had received from the war front. A family member was wounded. Maybe it was the brother,
but the concierge did not know. With so many innovations, surprises and impressions, learn difficult
things. She also had her man in the army and he concern's business.

"Where is he? --- Was asked in July during the day -. Why do you want to ignore his whereabouts
?...»

When on the night he was informed his comrade's journey rulers with all the mystery of a story
that was not yet public, merely to answer, after thoughtful silence:

-
They do well ... I will go out tomorrow if I can also.

Why stay in Paris? His family was away. His father - according to the findings Argensola - also
was gone, without saying where. With the mysterious flight of Margarita left alone in a loneliness
that inspired him remorse.

That afternoon, walking along the boulevards, had experienced something
with a friend in years, a fellow member of the Circle of fencing frequented
by him.

It was the first one was from the beginning of the war, and together they reviewed all colleagues
incorporated into army. Desnoyers questions were answered by the old. "John Doe? ... was Lorena
and was wounded in a hospital in the South. Another friend? ... killed in the Vosges. Other?
... disappeared in Charleroi. And so the heroic and funereal parade. Most were still living,
doing a great job. Other foreign partners, young Poles, British residents Paris Americans in
the southern republics, had just registered as volunteers.

The Circle should be proud of these young people who exercised in
their weapons during peace: all were in the front exposing her existence
... And Desnoyers away their sight, as if afraid guess in the eyes
of his friend a wry and questions.

Why not he walked, like the others, to defend the land they lived? ...

- Tomorrow I'll go - repeated in July, overshadowed by this recall.

But going to the South, like all fleeing the war. The next morning, Argensola was responsible
for getting a rail ticket to Bordeaux. The value of money had increased significantly. Fifty francs
delivered on time performed the miracle to provide it with a numbered piece of cardboard, represented
the conquest of which, for many, days Integer expected.

- It's for today - he said to his comrade -. You go on the train tonight.

The luggage did not require extensive preparations. Trains refused to support other packages those
carrying passengers by hand. Argensola refused to accept the donation of July, which wanted from
him all his money. Heroes need very little, and the painter of souls was encouraged by a heroic
resolution. The brief remarks to charge Gallieni the defense of Paris was hers. Thought continued
until the last effort, as the general drive.

- Let them come! - Said with a tragic -. I find on my site! ...

Your site was the study. I wanted to see things close for generations to come. Would hold, with their
supplies of food and wine. Furthermore, had the project - and his companion disappear - to bring
to live with him to some friends who wandered in search a food problem and felt fear in the
solitude of their homes. The danger approaches to good people and
add a new attraction to the pleasures of the community.

The loving expansions of the prisoners of Terror, when they expected from one moment to another
being conducted to the guillotine, revived in his memory. Tossed off the dregs of life, as we
die! ... The study of the rue de la Pompe was going to attend the same parties crazy and desperate
stranded ship with supplies plentiful.

Desnoyers left the Orsay station in a first class compartment. Mentally praised good order with which
the authority had arranged everything. Each passenger had his seat. But at the Austerlitz station
a stampede attacked the train. The doors were opened as if they were to break, packages and
children came through the windows as well as missiles. People are pushed to the roughness of
a crowd fleeing a fire. In space reserved for eight people were installed fourteen, the corridors
are blocked forever with lots of luggage, which served to new passenger seat. Had disappeared
social distance. The villagers invaded preferably luxury cars, believing find them more space.
Those with first-class ticket went in search of worst cars in the vain hope of traveling well
off. On side roads waiting one day before your departure time long trains made up of cattle cars.
Stalls trailers were full of people sitting on the wooden floor or on chairs brought from
home. Each train was a camp that wanted to start, and while he still, a layer of greasy paper
and fruit peels was forming over it.

The attackers, when pushed, is tolerated and condoned fraternally. "In war as in war, "they said as
a final excuse. And each one clutching a neighbor to snatch a inch seat, to introduce their small baggage
hanging over packages people with the most improbable balances. Desnoyers was gradually losing
its advantages of first occupancy. He inspired pity these poor people who had waited the train
at four in the morning at eight o'clock in the evening. Women wailed in exhaustion, right in the corridor,
looking fierce envy those who occupied a seat. Children cried a hungry goat bleating. July finally
give way, dividing between the needy and improvident all foods that had provided Argensola. The
restaurants seemed stations looted. During the long wait the train, only military were on the platforms,
soldiers running to hear the call of the trumpet to return to take
his place in the strings of cars going up and rose to Paris.

In sidings, rail of war long hoped that the route is free to continue travel. Cuirassiers,
wearing a yellow vest on his chest of steel, were sitting with legs hanging on the doors of wagons
stables, inside which they neighing. On the gray platforms harmonic alignment. The slender throats
75 pointed to the top like telescopes.

He spent the night in the corridor, sitting on the edge of a suitcase, watching others slept
the brutalization of fatigue and excitement.

It was a cruel and endless night of shock, clatter cut by snoring and pauses. At each station,
the trumpets sounded hastily as if the enemy was near. The soldiers from the South ran to
their jobs, and a new wave of men were dragged along the rails to
Paris.

They seemed happy and eager to arrive early to the places of slaughter. Many appear to believe lamented
late. Julio, looking out a window, heard the screams and dialogue on these platforms impregnated
with a pungent odor of men and mules. All showed an unshakable confidence. "The Boches! ... Numerous,
with big guns, with many guns ... but there was no rather than the
bayonet charge and fled like rabbits.

"

The faith of those who went to meet death in contrast to the panic and doubt the fleeing Paris.
An old gentleman and decorated, kind of official retirement was Desnoyers to questions when the
train resumed its march. "Do you think that will come to Tours?" Before receiving a reply
fell asleep. Stupefying sleep wore her down the aisle lead foot.
Then the old man woke up suddenly.

"Do you think that will come to Bordeaux ?...» And their desire not to stop until you reach your
family will absolutely safe shelter did accept vague answers as oracles.

At dawn they saw the country's territorial guarding the tracks. They were armed with rifles
old, wore a red kepi as the only distinctive military. They kept going in the direction opposed
the military trains.

In the Bordeaux train station, the civil crowd, struggling to get out or for assaulting new
cars, mingled with the troops. The trumpets sounded ceaselessly to bring the soldiers. Many
were men of color, indigenous handles large gray pants and a red
cap on black or tan face.

North continued to the tight roll of the armed masses.

Desnoyers saw a train of wounded from the fighting in Flanders and Lorraine. Uniforms cooling
of dirt fatigued with the whiteness of the bandages that held members sore or broken heads
defended. All seemed to smile with their mouths livid and feverish eyes to the first land of the
south that showed through the morning mist, crowned sun, covered with the royal robe of its branches.
Northern men spread their hands to the fruits that were offered for women, picking grapes with
the sweet delight of the country.

Spent four days in Bordeaux, dazed and disoriented by the agitation of a provincial town suddenly
converted into capital. The hotels were full, many characters were content with a domestic room.
The coffee did not keep an open chair, the sidewalks seemed repel this extraordinary crowd.
The Head of State was installed in the prefecture ministries were established in schools and
museums, two theaters were enabled future meetings of the Senate and the House popular. July found
a seedy hotel and equivocal at the end of the street by passers-by constantly damp. A cherub
adorned the glass door. In his room, the mirror was recorded women's names, phrases intranscribibles,
in memory of lodging an hour ... And still some ladies Paris, engaged in seeking an accommodation,
envied so fortunate.

His findings proved futile. The friends who found the fugitive mob think of their own fate.
Only knew about the incidents of installation; after hearing the news repeated to the ministers,
with whom he lived familiarly; mentioned with a mysterious air of
the great battle that had begun to develop from near Paris to Verdun.

A disciple of its glory, who kept the old style in her nurse's uniform, he gave vague reports.
"" The little Madame Laurier? ... He remembered have heard someone who lived nearby ... Maybe
in Biarritz. "No longer needed for July resume their journey. A Biarritz!
The first person I met upon arrival was Chichi. Population declared
uninhabitable by rich Spanish families who vacationed there: "They
are mostly small holes. I spend fighting there. I will end by living
alone. "Then he found his mother, hugs and tears. Then he saw his
Aunt Elena in a hotel room, excited about the country and its vacationers.
He could talk at length with many of them about the decline of France.
Everyone expected from one moment to another the news of the Kaiser's
entry into the capital. Serious Men had not done anything in his life
criticizing the flaws and oversights of the Republic. Youth whose
distinction excited Dona Elena broke into apostrophes against corruption
Paris, corruptions that had carefully studied to ensure the sunrise
in the Montmartre virtuous schools. Everyone loves Germany, which
had never been or they knew as a succession of film images. Applied
to events criteria Plaza de Toros. The Germans were the ones hit harder.
"With them not to play: they are very gross. "And they seemed to admire
the brutality as the most respectable of merit. "Why Why not say that
at home, across the border? - Chichi protested -. Why do they come
to its neighbor to mock his concerns? ... And maybe you think people
of good education! "

July had not gone to Biarritz to live with his
... The same day saw the arrival away to the mother of Margarita.
She was alone. His findings let him know that the daughter lived in
Pau. She was a nurse and cares for a wounded family. "The brother
... undoubtedly is the brother "thought July.

"I have no doubt they have given it up, doctor," Major Harcourt said; "but they are not likely
to say so, just yet. After all the preparations that have been made; and the certainty expressed,
about our capture, by the allied armies and navies of France and Spain; and having two or three
royal princes down here, to grace the victory; you don't suppose they are going to acknowledge
to the world that they are beaten. I should have thought you would have known human nature
better than that, doctor.

"You will see De Crillon will send a pompous report of the affair; saying that the battering
ships were found, owing to faults in their construction, to be of far less utility than had
been expected and that, therefore, they had been burned. They had, however, inflicted enormous
loss upon the garrison and defences; and the siege would now be taken up by the army and fleet,
and vigorously pushed to a successful termination.

"That will be the sort of thing, I would bet a month's pay. The last thing a Spanish commander
will confess is that he is beaten; and I think it likely enough that they will carry on the
siege for months, yet, so as to keep up appearances. In fact, committed as they are to it,
I don't see how they can give it up, without making themselves the laughingstock of Europe.
But, now that they find they have no chance of getting the object for which they went to war,
I fancy you will see, before very long, they will begin to negotiate for peace."

The major's anticipations were verified. For some time the siege was carried on with considerable
vigour--from a thousand to twelve hundred shots being fired, daily, into the fortress. Their
works on the neutral ground were pushed forward; and an attempt was made, at night, to blow
out a portion of the face of the Rock, by placing powder in a cave--but the attempt was detected.

The position of the garrison became more comfortable after a British fleet arrived, with two
more regiments and a large convoy of merchantmen; but nothing of any importance took place
till, on the 2d of February, 1782, the Duc de Crillon sent in to say that the preliminaries
of a general peace had been signed, by Great Britain, France, and Spain and, three days later,
the blockade at sea was discontinued, and the port of Gibraltar again open.

Bob Repton, however, was not present at the concluding scenes of the great drama. Satisfied,
after the failure of the bombardment, that there would be no more serious fighting, and that
the interest of the siege was at an end; he took advantage of the arrival of the Antelope in
the bay, a few days after the engagement, to return in her to England. He had now been two
years and eight months on the Rock, and felt that he ought to go home, to take his place with
his uncle.

He had benefited greatly by his stay in Gibraltar. He had acquired the Spanish language thoroughly
and, in other respects, had carried on his studies under the direction of Doctor Burke; and
had employed much of his leisure time with instructive reading. Mixing so much with the officers
of the garrison, he had acquired a good manner and address. He had been present at the most
memorable siege of the times, and had gained the credit of having--though but a volunteer--his
name twice placed in general orders for good services. He had landed a school boy; he was now
a well-built young fellow, of medium height and powerful frame; but he had retained his boyish,
frank good humour, and his love of fun.

"I trust that we shall be back in England, before long," his sister said to him. "Everyone
expects that Spain will make peace, before many months are over, and it is likely that the
regiments who have gone through the hardships of the siege will soon be relieved; so I hope
that, in a year or two, we may be ordered home again."

There was a great deal of regret expressed, when it was known that Bob Repton was going home;
for he had always been ready to do any acts of kindness in his power--especially to children,
of whom he was very fond--and it was not forgotten that his daring enterprise, in going out
alone to fetch in fruit, had saved many of their lives. Amy Harcourt's eyes were very red,
when he went up to say goodbye to her and her mother, an hour before he sailed; and the farewells
were spoken with quivering lips.

The Antelope evaded the enemy's cruisers near the Rock, and made a quick passage to England,
without adventure. She had made two or three good prizes, up the Spanish coast, before she
put into Gibraltar on her way home. Captain Lockett, therefore, did not go out of his way to
look for more.

On arriving at Portsmouth, Bob at once went up to London by coach. He had no lack of clothes,
having purchased the effects of an officer, of nearly his own build and stature, who had been
killed a short time before. On alighting from the coach he walked to Philpot Lane, and went
straight into the counting house. His old acquaintance, Jack Medlin, was sitting on the stool
his father had formerly occupied; and Bob was greatly amused at the air of gravity on his face.

"Do you wish to see Mr. Bale, or Mr. Medlin, sir?" he asked, "Or can I take your orders?"

"You are a capital imitator of your father, Jack," Bob said, as he brought his hand down heavily
on the shoulder of the young clerk; who stared at him in astonishment.

"Why, it is Bob--I mean, Mr. Repton!" he exclaimed.

"It's Bob Repton, Jack, sure enough; and glad I am to see you. Why, it is nearly three years
since we met; and we have both altered a good bit, since then.

"Well, is my uncle in?"

"No, he is out, at present; but my father is in the inner office."

Bob strode into the inner office, and greeted Mr. Medlin as heartily as he had done his son;
and Mr. Medlin, for the first time since he had entered Philpot Lane, as a boy, forgot that
he was within the sacred precincts of the city and, for at least ten minutes, laughed and talked
as freely and unrestrainedly as if he had been out at Highgate.

"Your uncle will be delighted to see you back," he said. "He is for ever talking about you;
and there wasn't a prouder man in the city of London than he was, when the despatches were
published and your name appeared, twice, as having rendered great service. He became a little
afraid, at one time, that you might take to soldiering, altogether. But I told him that I thought
there was no fear of that. After you had once refused to take a midshipman's berth--with its
prospect of getting away from school--I did not think it likely that you would be tempted, now."

"No; the General told Captain O'Halloran that he would get me a commission, if I liked; but
I had not the least ambition that way. I have had a fine opportunity of seeing war, and have
had a jolly time of it; and now I am quite ready to settle down, here."

Mr. Bale was delighted, on his return, to find Bob. It was just the hour for closing, and he
insisted upon Mr. Medlin stopping to take supper with him. Bob had written, whenever there
was an opportunity of sending letters; but many of these had never come to hand, and there
was much to tell, and talk about.

"Well, I am thoroughly satisfied with the success of our experiment, Mr. Medlin," Mr. Bale
said, next day. "Bob has turned out exactly what I hoped he would--a fine young fellow, and
a gentleman. He has excellent manners, and yet there is nothing foppish, or affected about him."

"I had no fear of that, with Bob, Mr. Bale; and indeed, Gibraltar during the siege must have
been a bad school for anyone to learn that sort of thing. Military men may amuse themselves
with follies of that kind, when they have nothing better to do; but it is thrown aside, and
their best qualities come out, when they have such work to do as they have had there.

"Yes, I agree with you, sir. The experiment has turned out capitally; and your nephew is, in
every respect, a far better man than he would have been, if he had been kept mewed up here
these three years. He is a young fellow that anyone--I don't care who he is--might feel proud of."

So Bob took up his duties in the office, and his only complaint there was that he could hardly
find enough to do. Mr. Bale had relaxed his close attention to the business, since he had taken
Mr. Medlin into the firm; but as that gentleman was perfectly capable of carrying it on, single
handed, Bob's share of it was easy enough. It was not long before he complained to his uncle
that he really did not find enough to do.

"Well, Bob, you shall come down with me to a place I have bought, out by Chislehurst. It is
a tidy little estate. I bought it a year ago. It is a nice distance from town--just a pleasant
ride, or drive, up. I am thinking of moving my establishment down there, altogether; and as
you will have it some day, I should like your opinion of it. It isn't quite ready, yet. I have
been having it thoroughly done up, but the men will be out in a week or two."

Bob was greatly pleased with the house, which was a fine one, and very pleasantly situated,
in large grounds.

"There are seventy or eighty acres of land," Mr. Bale said. "They are let to a farmer, at present.
He only has them by the year; and I think it will be an amusement to you to take them in hand,
and look after them yourself. I know a good many people living about here, and I have no doubt
we shall have quite as much society as we care for."

Another month and they were established at Chislehurst, and Bob found the life there very pleasant.
He generally drove his uncle up to town in the morning; getting to the office at ten o'clock,
and leaving it at five in the afternoon. On his return home there was the garden to see about,
and the stables. Very often his uncle brought a city friend or two home with him, for the night;
and they soon had a large circle of acquaintances in the neighbourhood.

"I should like you to marry young, Bob," Mr. Bale said to him one day. They rolled the barrels of the last harvest, and the soldiers filled in red
spray metal bucket pending his waist. Then the wine was bottled out to light in order of date,
instantly lost in the river of men that passed and happened. Desnoyers watched with pride the
effects of his munificence. The smile reappeared on the faces fierce, the French joke jumping
from row to row, the groups initiated away a song.

Then he saw in the town square of several officers who gave a short break to his horses before
returning to the column. With contracted brow and dark eyes, talked about this recall inexplicable
to them. Days earlier, at Guise, had inflicted a defeat to their pursuers. And yet, still retreating,
obedient to an order strict and severe. "We do not understand say ...-- -. We do not understand.
"Orderly and methodical Tide dragged to these men who wanted to fight and had to retire. All had the
same cruel question: 'do not understand. "And the question became even more painful the incessant
march, a march that lasted day and night with only short breaks, alarmed the leaders of the body
at all hours for fear of being cut and separated from the rest of the army. "One more effort,
children mine. Courage! Rest soon. "The columns should be removed, covered hundreds of miles.
Desnoyers saw only one of them. Other and others made the same back at the same hour, comprising one-half
the width of France. All came back with the same obedience discouraged and undoubtedly the same
people repeating that officials "do not understand ... We do not understand. "

Don Marcelo suddenly experienced the sadness and bewilderment of these soldiers. Nor he understood.
I saw immediately what everyone could see: the invaded territory without the Germans found a
tenacious resistance, whole departments, cities, towns, crowds remained in the hands of the enemy
army in the rear of a receding endlessly. His enthusiasm suddenly dropped like a deflated balloon. Reappeared
his former pessimism. The troops showed energy and discipline, but what it could be used if they withdrew
almost without fighting, unable, by a severe order, to defend the land? "Just as in 70, he thought. Externally
there was more order, but the result was going to be the same.

As an echo that respond negatively to his sorrow, he heard the voice of a soldier talking a
peasant

- We left, but it is harder to jump over the Boches.

Joffre's grandfather was the go back into the pocket at the time and site of your choice.

Desnoyers was revived at the name of general.

Maybe this soldier, who remained intact their faith through the endless marches and demoralizing,
I sensed the truth better than reasoners officials and scholars.

The rest of the day was spent making gifts to the last groups of the column. The wine cellar was emptied.
In order of dates still spreading the thousands of bottles stored in the basement of the castle.
As the night were bottles covered with dust for many years which gave the men who seemed weak.
As the column marched was offering saddest aspect of fatigue and wear. Passed behind, dragging
with disappointment the raw feet inside your shoes. Some were spared this torturous confinement
and marched barefoot, with heavy boots hanging from a shoulder leaving
blood stains the ground.

But all overwhelmed by a mortal fatigue, preserved their weapons and equipment, thinking the
enemy was near.
Desnoyers was the generosity of many of them stunned. Were used to
pass the homeland having to struggle with the selfishness of the grower.
Nobody offered nothing.

"Regarding you as I do, as my son, there is nothing I should like so much as having a bright,
pretty daughter-in-law; so you have my hearty consent and approval, even before you ask for it.

"And you found her very nice, Bob--eh?"

"Very nice, sir," Bob said, smiling.

"And very pretty, Bob?"

"Very pretty, sir. 

Taking language, early one morning went to market in the Plaza Vieja, one of two that existed
within the walls of the city. Was that a swarm of animals and so diverse, people of all colors
and conditions, which prevailed black; enclosure narrow tired, unkempt, damp and dark, circumscribed
by four rows of houses, perhaps the most affected population, all, or most, of two bodies, with
broad low high-ceilinged portals, which supported wooden balconies.
 I shall keep a room here, and I dare say I shall often use it. But I have
been rather like a fish out of water, since I came here, and shall be well content to fall
into my old ways again; knowing that, if I want any change, and bright society, I can come
down here. VII .-- .-- Vaud and Neuchâtel, Lausanne and near its monuments and institutions .-- .-- De
Lausanne Iverdun to Iverdun .-- .-- .-- Lake Neuchâtel Canton .-- The .-- Its history and
Its institutions The Communal products .-- .-- .-- The city of Neuchâtel
Swiss An Overview.

Two months later the three members of the firm went over to Cork, and there a gay wedding was
celebrated; and when, at the termination of the honeymoon, Bob returned to Chislehurst, he
found Captain O'Halloran and Carrie established there on a month's leave and, a day or two
later, the party was increased by the arrival of Doctor Burke. Was not you at this time the only Cordoba
who made love prophetess. Another came before you, who competed in this with you. Not worth much,
because the man whose future worth loving discovered her in his prophetic vision worth a thousand
times less than the strain of his intelligence and his revealing strong will have doubled or tripled
the greatness of the known world, and has magnified the concept of creation in every human mind.
Compared to the glory of man, which is worth little is achieved by defeating armies, conquering
kingdoms and subjugating and humiliating the chief more powerful. It is nevertheless more than
you this woman that I speak, because you have revealed no Columbus himself what he already knew his
own worth.
At Mr. Bale's death, it was found that he had left his house at Chislehurst to Carrie; and
she and her husband accordingly established themselves there. 

The Grand Master did not know then shut up. Beatriz told the loves of his boyhood runaways first.
And even some say that you cited, hovering tears in their eyes, some of the letter I had written
Dona Mencia, and he mercifully kept in memory.
