     "A copy of a receipt dated the 16th (28th) of March states that the
     Emperor Napoleon handed to Hermann, pastor of the church at
     Markersdorf, the sum of two hundred gold napoleons for the purpose
     of erecting a monument to the memory of Marshal Duroc, who died on
     the field of battle.  His Excellency Prince Repnin, Governor-General
     of Saxony, having ordered that a deputy from my office be sent to
     Markersdorf in order to bring the said sum and deposit it with me
     until it is finally disposed of, my secretary, Meyerheim, is charged
     with this mission, and consequently will go at once to Dlarkersdorf,
     and, as an evidence of his authority, will present to Minister
     Hermann the accompanying order, and take possession of the above
     mentioned sum of two hundred gold napoleons.  The secretary
     Meyerheim will account to me alone for the execution of this order.
     At Dresden this 20th of March (1st of April), 1814.

                                   "(Signed) BARON DE ROSEN."

This order needs no comment.  After the battles of Bautzen and Wurschen, the Emperor entered
Silesia.  He saw on every occasion combined armies of the allies put to flight before his own
in every encounter; and this sight, while flattering his vanity exceedingly, also greatly strengthened
him in the belief that he would soon find himself master of a rich and fertile country, where
the abundant means of subsistence would be of much advantage in all his undertakings.  Many
times a day he exclaimed, "How far are we from such a town?  When do we arrive at Breslau?
"His impatience did not prevent him meanwhile from" occupying his mind with every object which
struck his attention, as if he were free from all care.  He examined the houses, one by one,
as he passed through each village, remarked the direction of rivers and mountain ranges, and
collected the most minute information which the inhabitants could or would give him.  On the
27th of May, his Majesty, when not more than three days march from Breslau, met in front of
a little town called Michelsdorf several regiments of Russian cavalry who held the road.  They
were quite near the Emperor and his staff before his Majesty had even perceived them.  The
Prince de Neuchatel, seeing the enemy so near, hastened to the Emperor, and said, "Sire, they
are still advancing."-- "Well, we will advance also," replied his Majesty, smiling.  "Look
behind you-" And he showed the prince the French infantry approaching in close columns.  A
few discharges soon drove the Russians from this position; but half a league or a league farther
we found them again, and this maneuver was again and again repeated.  The Emperor, perceiving
this, maneuvered accordingly, and in person directed with the greatest precision the troops
as they advanced.  He went from one height to another, and thoroughly inspected the towns and
villages on the route in order to reconnoiter their position, and ascertain what resources
he could obtain from the country; and, as a result of his attentive care and indefatigable
oversight, the scene changed ten times a day.  If a column emerged from a deep ravine, a wood,
or a village, it could take immediate possession of a height, since a battery was found already
in position to defend it.  The Emperor indicated every movement with admirable tact, and in
such a manner that it was impossible to be taken at a disadvantage. He commanded only the troops
as a whole, transmitting either personally, or through his staff officers, his orders to the
commander of the corps and divisions, who in their turn transmitted or had them transmitted
to the chiefs of battalions.  All orders given by his Majesty were short, precise, and so clear
that it was never necessary to ask explanations.

On the 29th of May, not knowing how far on the road to Breslau it was prudent to advance, his
Majesty established himself on a little farm called Rosnig, which had been pillaged, and presented
a most miserable aspect.  As there could be found in the house only a small apartment with
a closet suitable for the Emperor's use, the Prince de Neuchatel and his suite established
themselves as well as they could in the surrounding cottages, barns, and even in the gardens,
since there was not sufficient shelter for all.  The next day a fire broke out in a stable
near the lodging of the Emperor.  There were fourteen or fifteen wagons in this barn, which
were all burned.  One of these wagons contained the traveling treasury chest; in another were
the clothes and linen belonging to the Emperor, as well as jewelry, rings, tobacco boxes, and
other valuable objects.  We saved very few things from this fire; and if the reserve corps
had not arrived promptly, his Majesty would have been obliged to change his customary toilet
rules for want of stockings and shirts.  The Saxon Major d'Odeleben, who has written some interesting
articles on this campaign, states that everything belonging to his Majesty was burned; and
that it was necessary to have him some pantaloons made in the greatest haste at Breslau.  This
is a mistake.  I do not think that the baggage- wagon was burned; but even if it had been,
the Emperor would not on that account have needed clothing, since there were always four or
five complete suits either in advance or in the rear of the headquarters. In Russia, when the
order was given to burn all carriages which lacked horses, this order was rigorously executed
in regard to the persons of the household, and they were consequently left with almost nothing;
but everything was reserved which might be considered indispensable to his Majesty.

At length on the 1st of June, at six o'clock in the morning, the advance guard entered Breslau,
having at its head General Lauriston, and General Hogendorp, whom his Majesty had invested
in advance with the functions of governor of this town, which was the capital of Silesia. 
Thus was fulfilled in part the promise the Emperor had made in passing through Warsaw on his
return from Russia: "I go to seek three hundred thousand men.  Success will render the Russians
bold.  I will deliver two battles between the Elbe and the Oder, and in six months I will be
again on the Niemen."

These two battles fought and gained by conscripts, and without cavalry, had re-established
the reputation of the French army.  The King of Saxony had been brought back in triumph to
his capital.  The headquarters of the Emperor were at Breslau; one of the corps of the grand
army was at the gates of Berlin, and the enemy driven from Hamburg.  Russia was about to be
forced to withdraw into its own boundaries, when the Emperor of Austria, acting as mediator
in the affairs of the two allied sovereigns, advised them to propose an armistice.  They followed
this advice; and as the Emperor had the weakness to consent to their demands, the armistice
was granted and signed on the fourth of June, and his Majesty at once set out on his return
to Dresden.  An hour after his departure he said, "If the allies do not in good faith desire
peace, this armistice may become very fatal to us."

On the evening of the 8th of June, his Majesty reached Gorlitz.  On that night fire broke out
in the faubourg where the guard had established its quarters; and at one o'clock one of the
officials of the town came to the headquarters of the Emperor to give the alarm, saying that
all was lost. The troops extinguished the fire, and an account was rendered the Emperor of
what had occurred.  I dressed him in all haste, as he wished to set out at break of day.  "To
how much does the loss amount?" demanded the Emperor.  "Sire, to seven or eight thousand francs
at least for the cases of greatest need."--"Let ten thousand be given, and let it be distributed
immediately."  The inhabitants were immediately informed of the generosity of the Emperor;
and as he left the village an hour or two after, he was saluted with unanimous acclamations.

On the morning of the 10th we returned from Dresden.  The Emperor's arrival put an end to most
singular rumors which had been circulated there since the remains of Grand Marshal Duroc had
passed through the city.  It was asserted that the coffin contained the body of the Emperor;
that he had been killed in the last battle, and his body mysteriously concealed in a room of
the chateau, through the windows of which lights could be seen burning all night.  When he
arrived, some persons perfectly infatuated with this idea went so far as to repeat what had
already been reported, with the added circumstance that it was not the Emperor who was seen
in his carriage, but a figure made of wax.  Nevertheless, when next day he appeared before
the eyes of all on horseback in a meadow in front of the gates of the city, they were compelled
to admit that he still lived.

The Emperor alighted at the Marcolini palace, a charming summer residence situated in the faubourg
of Friedrichstadt.  An immense garden, the beautiful meadows of Osterwise on the banks of the
Elbe, in addition to an extremely fine landscape, rendered this sojourn much more attractive
than that of the winter palace; and consequently the Emperor was most grateful to the King
of Saxony for having prepared it for him.  There he led the same life as at Schoenbrunn; reviews
every morning, much work during the day, and few distractions in the evening; in fact, more
simplicity than display.  The middle of the day was spent in cabinet labors; and during that
time such perfect tranquillity reigned in the palace, that except for the presence of two sentinels
on horseback and videttes, which showed that it was the dwelling of a sovereign, it would have
been difficult to imagine that this beautiful residence was inhabited even by the simplest
private citizen.

The Emperor had chosen for his apartments the right wing of the palace; the left was occupied
by the Prince de Neuchatel.  In the center of the building were a large saloon and two smaller
ones which served as reception rooms.

Two days after his return, his Majesty sent orders to Paris that the actors of the "Comedy"
Theater from Paris should spend the time of the armistice at Dresden.  The Duke of Vicenza,
charged in the interim with the duties of grand marshal of the palace, was ordered to make
all necessary preparations to receive them.  He committed this duty to the care of Messieurs
de Beausset and de Turenne, to whom the Emperor gave the superintendence of the theater; and
a hall to be used for this purpose was erected in the orangery of the Marcolini palace.  This
hall communicated with the apartments, and could seat about two hundred persons.  It was erected
as if by magic, and was opened, while awaiting the arrival of the French troupe, with two or
three representations given by the Italian comedians of the King of Saxony.

The actors from Paris were: For tragedy, Messieurs Saint-Prix and Talma and Mademoiselle Georges.

For comedy: Messieurs Fleury, Saint-Fal, Baptiste the younger, Armand, Thenard, Michot, Devigny,
Michelot and Barbier; Mesdames Mars, Bourgoin, Thenard, Emilie Contat, and Mezeray.

The management of the theater was given to M. Despres.

All these actors arrived on the 19th of June, and found every arrangement made for their comfort,--tastefully
furnished lodgings, carriages, servants, everything which could enable them to agreeably endure
the ennui of a residence in a foreign land, and prove to them at the same time how highly his
Majesty appreciated their talents; an appreciation which most of them richly merited, both
on account of their excellent social qualities, and the nobility and refinement of their manners.

The debut of the French troupe at the theater of the Orangery took place on the 22d of June,
in the 'Gageure Imprevue', and another piece, then much in vogue at Paris, and which has often
since been witnessed with much pleasure, 'La Suite d'un Bal Masque'.

As the theater of the Orangery would have been too small for the representation of tragedy,
that was reserved for the grand theater of the city; and persons were admitted on those occasions
only by cards from the Count of Turenne, no admission fee being charged.

At the grand theater on the days of the French play, and also in the theater at the Marcolini
palace, the footmen of his Majesty attended upon the boxes, and served refreshments while the
piece was being played.

This is how the days were spent after the arrival of the actors of the French theater.

Everything was quiet until eight o'clock in the morning, unless a courier arrived, or some
aide-de-camp was unexpectedly summoned.  At eight o'clock I dressed the Emperor; at nine he
held his levee, which all could attend who held as high a rank as colonel.  The civil and military
authorities of the country were also admitted; the Dukes of Weimar and d'Anhalt, the brothers
and nephews of the King of Saxony, sometimes attended.  Next came breakfast; then the parade
in the meadows of Osterwise, about one hundred paces distant from the palace, to which the
Emperor always went on horseback, and dismounted on arriving; the troops filed before him,
and cheered him three times with their customary enthusiasm.  The evolutions were commanded
sometimes by the Emperor, sometimes by the Count of Lobau.  As soon as the cavalry began to
defile, his majesty re-entered the palace and began to work.  Then began that perfect stillness
of which I have spoken; and dinner was not served until late,--seven or eight o'clock.  The
Emperor often dined alone with the Prince de Neuchatel, unless there were guests from the royal
family of Saxony.  After dinner they attended the theater, when there was a play; and afterwards
the Emperor returned to his cabinet to work again, either alone or with his secretaries.

Each day it was the same thing, unless, which was very rarely the case, fatigued beyond measure
by the labors of the day, the Emperor took a fancy to send for Madame Georges after the tragedy.
Then she passed two or three hours in his apartment, but never more.

Sometimes the Emperor invited Talma or Mademoiselle Mars to breakfast. One day, in a conversation
with this admirable actress, the Emperor spoke to her concerning her debut.  "Sire," said she,
in that graceful manner which every one remembers, "I began very young.  I slipped in without
being perceived."--"Without being perceived!" replied his Majesty quickly; "you are mistaken.
Be assured moreover, Mademoiselle, that I have always, in common with all France, highly appreciated
your wonderful talents."

The Emperor's stay at Dresden brought wealth and abundance.  More than six million francs of
foreign money were spent in this city between the 8th of May and 16th of November, if one can
believe the statements published on Saxon authority of the number of lodgings distributed.
This sojourn was a harvest of gold, which keepers of boarding-houses, hotels, and merchants
carefully reaped.  Those in charge of military lodgings furnished by the inhabitants also made
large profits.  At Dresden could be seen Parisian tailors and bootmakers, teaching the natives
to work in the French style.  Even bootblacks were found on the bridges over the Elbe, crying,
as they had cried on the bridges of the Seine, "Shine your boots!"

Around the city numerous camps had been established for the wounded, convalescents, etc.  One
of these, called the Westphalian camp, presented a most beautiful scene.  It was a succession
of beautiful small gardens; there a fortress made of turf, its bastions crowned with hortensias;
here a plot had been converted into a terrace, its walks ornamented with flowers, like the
most carefully tended parterre; on a third was seen a statue of Pallas.  The whole barrack
was decked with moss, and decorated with boughs and garlands which were renewed each day.

As the armistice would end on the 15th of August, the fete of his Majesty was advanced five
days.  The army, the town, and the court had made extensive preparations in order that the
ceremony might be worthy of him in whose honor it was given.  All the richest and most distinguished
inhabitants of Dresden vied with each other in balls, concerts, festivities, and rejoicings
of all sorts.  The morning before the day of the review, the King of Saxony came to the residence
of the Emperor with all his family, and the two sovereigns manifested the warmest friendship
for each other.  They breakfasted together, after which his Majesty, accompanied by the King
of Saxony, his brothers and nephews, repaired to the meadow behind the palace, where fifteen
thousand men of the guard awaited him in as fine condition as on the most brilliant parades
on the Champ-de-Mars.

After the review, the French and Saxon troops dispersed through the various churches to hear
the Te Deum; and at the close of the religious ceremony, all these brave soldiers seated themselves
at banqueting tables already prepared, and their joyous shouts with music and dancing were
prolonged far into the night.

CHAPTER XIII.

The entire duration of the armistice was employed in negotiations tending to a treaty of peace,
which the Emperor ardently desired, especially since he had seen the honor of his army restored
on the fields of Lutzen and Bautzen; but unfortunately he desired it only on conditions to
which the enemy would not consent, and soon the second series of our disasters recommenced,
and rendered peace more and more impossible.  Besides, from the beginning of negotiations relative
to the armistice, whose limit we had now nearly reached, the emperor Alexander, notwithstanding
the three battles won by Napoleon, would listen to no direct proposals from France, except
on the sole condition that Austria should act as mediator.  This distrust, as might be expected,
did not tend to produce a final. reconciliation, and, being the conquering party, the Emperor
was naturally irritated by it; nevertheless, under these grave circumstances he conquered the
just resentment caused by the conduct of the Emperor of Russia towards himself.  The result
of the time lost at Dresden, like the prolongation of our sojourn at Moscow, was a great advantage
to the enemy.

