The windows of the pretty room were open, and a snug sofa, with innumerable cushions, drawn
towards one of them. A great tranquil moon was staring into the chamber, in which stood, amidst
books and all sorts of bachelor's lumber, a silver tray with a couple of tall Venice glasses,
and a bottle of Maraschino bound with straw. I can see now the twinkle of the liquor in the
moonshine, as I poured it into the glass; and I swallowed two or three little cups of it, for
my spirits were downcast. Close to the tray of Maraschino stood--must I say it?--a box, a mere
box of cedar, bound rudely together with pink paper, branded with the name of "Hudson" on the
side, and bearing on the cover the arms of Spain. I thought I would just take up the box and
look in it.

Ah heaven! there they were--a hundred and fifty of them, in calm, comfortable rows: lovingly
side by side they lay, with the great moon shining down upon them--thin at the tip, full in
the waist, elegantly round and full, a little spot here and there shining upon them--beauty-spots
upon the cheek of Sylvia. The house was quite quiet. Dawdley always smoked in his room--I had
not smoked for four months and eleven days.

*****

When Lord Dawdley came into the study, he did not make any remarks; and oh, how easy my heart
felt! He was dressed in his green and boots, after Westall's picture, correctly.

"It's time to be off, George," said he; "they told me you were dressed long ago. Come up, my
man, and get ready."

I rushed up into the dressing-room, and madly dashed my head and arms into a pool of eau-de-Cologne.
I drank, I believe, a tumberful of it. I called for my clothes, and, strange to say, they were
gone. My servant brought them, however, saying that he had put them away--making some stupid
excuse. I put them on, not heeding them much, for I was half tipsy with the excitement of the
ci-- of the smo-- of what had taken place in Dawdley's study, and with the Maraschino and the
eau-de-Cologue I had drunk.

"What a fine odor of lavender-water!" said Dawdley, as we rode in the carriage.

I put my head out of the window and shrieked out a laugh; but made no other reply.

"What's the joke, George?" said Dawdley. "Did I say anything witty?"

"No," cried I, yelling still more wildly; "nothing more witty than usual."

"Don't be severe, George," said he, with a mortified air; and we drove on to B---- House.

*****

There must have been something strange and wild in my appearance, and those awful black plumes,
as I passed through the crowd; for I observed people looking and making a strange nasal noise
(it is called sniffing, and I have no other more delicate term for it), and making way as I
pushed on. But I moved forward very fiercely, for the wine, the Maraschino, the eau-de-Cologne,
and the--the excitement had rendered me almost wild; and at length I arrived at the place where
my lovely Lady of the Lake and her Harper stood. How beautiful she looked,--all eyes were upon
her as she stood blushing. When she saw me, however; her countenance assumed an appearance
of alarm. "Good heavens, George!" she said, stretching her hand to me, "what makes you look
so wild and pale?" I advanced, and was going to take her hand, when she dropped it with a scream.

"Ah--ah--ah!" she said. "Mr. Fitz-Boodle, you've been smoking!"

There was an immense laugh from four hundred people round about us, and the scoundrelly Dawdley
joined in the yell. I rushed furiously out, and, as I passed, hurtled over the fat Hereditary
Prince of Kalbsbraten-Pumpernickel.

"Es riecht hier ungeheuer stark von Tabak!" I heard his Highness say, as I madly flung myself
through the aides-de-camp.

