SAMUEL BUTLER'S CANTERBURY PIECES

by Samuel Butler

Contents:

Darwin on the Origin of Species
   A Dialogue
   Barrel-Organs
   Letter:  21 Feb 1863
   Letter:  14 Mar 1863
   Letter:  18 Mar 1863
   Letter:  11 Apr 1863
   Letter:  22 June 1863
Darwin Among the Machines
Lucubratio Ebria
A note on "The Tempest"
The English Cricketers

DARWIN ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES

Prefatory Note

As the following dialogue embodies the earliest fruits of Butler's study of the works of Charles
Darwin, with whose name his own was destined in later years to be so closely connected, and
thus possesses an interest apart from its intrinsic merit, a few words as to the circumstances
in which it was published will not be out of place.

Butler arrived in New Zealand in October, 1859, and about the same time Charles Darwin's ORIGIN
OF SPECIES was published.  Shortly afterwards the book came into Butler's hands.  He seems
to have read it carefully, and meditated upon it.  The result of his meditations took the shape
of the following dialogue, which was published on 20 December, 1862, in the PRESS which had
been started in the town of Christ Church in May, 1861.  The dialogue did not by any means
pass unnoticed.  On the 17th of January, 1863, a leading article (of course unsigned) appeared
in the PRESS, under the title "Barrel- Organs," discussing Darwin's theories, and incidentally
referring to Butler's dialogue.  A reply to this article, signed A .M., appeared on the 21st
of February, and the correspondence was continued until the 22nd of June, 1863.  The dialogue
itself, which was unearthed from the early files of the PRESS, mainly owing to the exertions
of Mr. Henry Festing Jones, was reprinted, together with the correspondence that followed its
publication, in the PRESS of June 8 and 15, 1912.  Soon after the original appearance of Butler's
dialogue a copy of it fell into the hands of Charles Darwin, possibly sent to him by a friend
in New Zealand.  Darwin was sufficiently struck by it to forward it to the editor of some magazine,
which has not been identified, with the following letter:-

Down, Bromley, Kent, S.E. March 24 [1863].

(Private).

Mr. Darwin takes the liberty to send by this post to the Editor a New Zealand newspaper for
the very improbable chance of the Editor having some spare space to reprint a Dialogue on Species.
This Dialogue, written by some [sic] quite unknown to Mr. Darwin, is remarkable from its spirit
and from giving so clear and accurate a view of Mr. D. [sic] theory.  It is also remarkable
from being published in a colony exactly 12 years old, in which it might have [sic] thought
only material interests would have been regarded.

The autograph of this letter was purchased from Mr. Tregaskis by Mr. Festing Jones, and subsequently
presented by him to the Museum at Christ Church.  The letter cannot be dated with certainty,
but since Butler's dialogue was published in December, 1862, and it is at least probable that
the copy of the PRESS which contained it was sent to Darwin shortly after it appeared, we may
conclude with tolerable certainty that the letter was written in March, 1863.  Further light
is thrown on the controversy by a correspondence which took place between Butler and Darwin
in 1865, shortly after Butler's return to England.  During that year Butler had published a
pamphlet entitled THE EVIDENCE FOR THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS CHRIST AS GIVEN BY THE FOUR EVANGELISTS
CRITICALLY EXAMINED, of which he afterwards incorporated the substance into THE FAIR HAVEN.
Butler sent a copy of this pamphlet to Darwin, and in due course received the following reply:-

Down, Bromley, Kent. September 30 [1865].

My dear Sir,--I am much obliged to you for so kindly sending me your Evidences, etc.  We have
read it with much interest.  It seems to me written with much force, vigour, and clearness;
and the main argument to me is quite new.  I particularly agree with all you say in your preface.

I do not know whether you intend to return to New Zealand, and, if you are inclined to write,
I should much like to know what your future plans are.

My health has been so bad during the last five months that I have been confined to my bedroom.
Had it been otherwise I would have asked you if you could have spared the time to have paid
us a visit; but this at present is impossible, and I fear will be so for some time.

With my best thanks for your present,

I remain, My dear Sir, Yours very faithfully, Charles Darwin.

To this letter Butler replied as follows:-

15 Clifford's Inn, E.C. October 1st, 1865.

Dear Sir,--I knew you were ill and I never meant to give you the fatigue of writing to me.
Please do not trouble yourself to do so again.  As you kindly ask my plans I may say that,
though I very probably may return to New Zealand in three or four years, I have no intention
of doing so before that time.  My study is art, and anything else I may indulge in is only
by-play; it may cause you some little wonder that at my age I should have started as an art
student, and I may perhaps be permitted to explain that this was always my wish for years,
that I had begun six years ago, as soon as ever I found that I could not conscientiously take
orders; my father so strongly disapproved of the idea that I gave it up and went out to New
Zealand, stayed there for five years, worked like a common servant, though on a run of my own,
and sold out little more than a year ago, thinking that prices were going to fall--which they
have since done.  Being then rather at a loss what to do and my capital being all locked up,
I took the opportunity to return to my old plan, and have been studying for the last ten years
unremittingly.  I hope that in three or four years more I shall be able to go on very well
by myself, and then I may go back to New Zealand or no as circumstances shall seem to render
advisable.  I must apologise for so much detail, but hardly knew how to explain myself without it.

I always delighted in your ORIGIN OF SPECIES as soon as I saw it out in New Zealand--not as
knowing anything whatsoever of natural history, but it enters into so many deeply interesting
questions, or rather it suggests so many, that it thoroughly fascinated me.  I therefore feel
all the greater pleasure that my pamphlet should please you, however full of errors.

The first dialogue on the ORIGIN which I wrote in the PRESS called forth a contemptuous rejoinder
from (I believe) the Bishop of Wellington--(please do not mention the name, though I think
that at this distance of space and time I might mention it to yourself) I answered it with
the enclosed, which may amuse you.  I assumed another character because my dialogue was in
my hearing very severely criticised by two or three whose opinion I thought worth having, and
I deferred to their judgment in my next.  I do not think I should do so now.  I fear you will
be shocked at an appeal to the periodicals mentioned in my letter, but they form a very staple
article of bush diet, and we used to get a good deal of superficial knowledge out of them.
I feared to go in too heavy on the side of the ORIGIN, because I thought that, having said
my say as well as I could, I had better now take a less impassioned tone; but I was really
exceedingly angry.

Please do not trouble yourself to answer this, and believe me,

Yours most sincerely, S. Butler.

This elicited a second letter from Darwin:-

Down, Bromley, Kent. October 6.

My dear Sir,--I thank you sincerely for your kind and frank letter, which has interested me
greatly.  What a singular and varied career you have already run.  Did you keep any journal
or notes in New Zealand?  For it strikes me that with your rare powers of writing you might
make a very interesting work descriptive of a colonist's life in New Zealand.

I return your printed letter, which you might like to keep.  It has amused me, especially the
part in which you criticise yourself.  To appreciate the letter fully I ought to have read
the bishop's letter, which seems to have been very rich.

You tell me not to answer your note, but I could not resist the wish to thank you for your letter.

With every good wish, believe me, my dear Sir,

Yours sincerely, Ch. Darwin.

It is curious that in this correspondence Darwin makes no reference to the fact that he had
already had in his possession a copy of Butler's dialogue and had endeavoured to induce the
editor of an English periodical to reprint it.  It is possible that we have not here the whole
of the correspondence which passed between Darwin and Butler at this period, and this theory
is supported by the fact that Butler seems to take for granted that Darwin knew all about the
appearance of the original dialogue on the ORIGIN OF SPECIES in the PRESS.

Enough, however, has been given to explain the correspondence which the publication of the
dialogue occasioned.  I do not know what authority Butler had for supposing that Charles John
Abraham, Bishop of Wellington, was the author of the article entitled "Barrel- Organs," and
the "Savoyard" of the subsequent controversy.  However, at that time Butler was deep in the
counsels of the PRESS, and he may have received private information on the subject.  Butler's
own reappearance over the initials A. M. is sufficiently explained in his letter to Darwin.

It is worth observing that Butler appears in the dialogue and ensuing correspondence in a character
very different from that which he was later to assume.  Here we have him as an ardent supporter
of Charles Darwin, and adopting a contemptuous tone with regard to the claims of Erasmus Darwin
to have sown the seed which was afterwards raised to maturity by his grandson.  It would be
interesting to know if it was this correspondence that first turned Butler's attention seriously
to the works of the older evolutionists and ultimately led to the production of EVOLUTION,
OLD AND NEW, in which the indebtedness of Charles Darwin to Erasmus Darwin, Buffon and Lamarck
is demonstrated with such compelling force.

DARWIN ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES:  A Dialogue [From the Press, 20 December, 1862.]

F.  So you have finished Darwin?  Well, how did you like him?

C.  You cannot expect me to like him.  He is so hard and logical, and he treats his subject
with such an intensity of dry reasoning without giving himself the loose rein for a single
moment from one end of the book to the other, that I must confess I have found it a great effort
to read him through.

F.  But I fancy that, if you are to be candid, you will admit that the fault lies rather with
yourself than with the book.  Your knowledge of natural history is so superficial that you
are constantly baffled by terms of which you do not understand the meaning, and in which you
consequently lose all interest.  I admit, however, that the book is hard and laborious reading;
and, moreover, that the writer appears to have predetermined from the commencement to reject
all ornament, and simply to argue from beginning to end, from point to point, till he conceived
that he had made his case sufficiently clear.

C.  I agree with you, and I do not like his book partly on that very account.  He seems to
have no eye but for the single point at which he is aiming.

F.  But is not that a great virtue in a writer?

C.  A great virtue, but a cold and hard one.

F.  In my opinion it is a grave and wise one.  Moreover, I conceive that the judicial calmness
which so strongly characterises the whole book, the absence of all passion, the air of extreme
and anxious caution which pervades it throughout, are rather the result of training and artificially
acquired self-restraint than symptoms of a cold and unimpassioned nature; at any rate, whether
the lawyer-like faculty of swearing both sides of a question and attaching the full value to
both is acquired or natural in Darwin's case, you will admit that such a habit of mind is essential
for any really valuable and scientific investigation.

C.  I admit it.  Science is all head--she has no heart at all.

F.  You are right.  But a man of science may be a man of other things besides science, and
though he may have, and ought to have no heart during a scientific investigation, yet when
he has once come to a conclusion he may be hearty enough in support of it, and in his other
capacities may be of as warm a temperament as even you can desire.

C.  I tell you I do not like the book.

F.  May I catechise you a little upon it?

C.  To your heart's content.

F.  Firstly, then, I will ask you what is the one great impression that you have derived from
reading it; or, rather, what do you think to be the main impression that Darwin wanted you
to derive?

C.  Why, I should say some such thing as the following--that men are descended from monkeys,
and monkeys from something else, and so on back to dogs and horses and hedge-sparrows and pigeons
and cinipedes (what is a cinipede?) and cheesemites, and then through the plants down to duckweed.

F.  You express the prevalent idea concerning the book, which as you express it appears nonsensical
enough.

C.  How, then, should you express it yourself?

F.  Hand me the book and I will read it to you through from beginning to end, for to express
it more briefly than Darwin himself has done is almost impossible.

C.  That is nonsense; as you asked me what impression I derived from the book, so now I ask
you, and I charge you to answer me.

F.  Well, I assent to the justice of your demand, but I shall comply with it by requiring your
assent to a few principal statements deducible from the work.

C.  So be it.

F.  You will grant then, firstly, that all plants and animals increase very rapidly, and that
unless they were in some manner checked, the world would soon be overstocked.  Take cats, for
instance; see with what rapidity they breed on the different runs in this province where there
is little or nothing to check them; or even take the more slowly breeding sheep, and see how
soon 500 ewes become 5000 sheep under favourable circumstances.  Suppose this sort of thing
to go on for a hundred million years or so, and where would be the standing room for all the
different plants and animals that would be now existing, did they not materially check each
other's increase, or were they not liable in some way to be checked by other causes? Remember
the quail; how plentiful they were until the cats came with the settlers from Europe.  Why
were they so abundant?  Simply because they had plenty to eat, and could get sufficient shelter
from the hawks to multiply freely.  The cats came, and tussocks stood the poor little creatures
in but poor stead.  The cats increased and multiplied because they had plenty of food and no
natural enemy to check them.  Let them wait a year or two, till they have materially reduced
the larks also, as they have long since reduced the quail, and let them have to depend solely
upon occasional dead lambs and sheep, and they will find a certain rather formidable natural
enemy called Famine rise slowly but inexorably against them and slaughter them wholesale. 
The first proposition then to which I demand your assent is that all plants and animals tend
to increase in a high geometrical ratio; that they all endeavour to get that which is necessary
for their own welfare; that, as unfortunately there are conflicting interests in Nature, collisions
constantly occur between different animals and plants, whereby the rate of increase of each
species is very materially checked.  Do you admit this?

C.  Of course; it is obvious.

F.  You admit then that there is in Nature a perpetual warfare of plant, of bird, of beast,
of fish, of reptile; that each is striving selfishly for its own advantage, and will get what
it wants if it can.

C.  If what?

F.  If it can.  How comes it then that sometimes it cannot?  Simply because all are not of
equal strength, and the weaker must go to the wall.

C.  You seem to gloat over your devilish statement.

F.  Gloat or no gloat, is it true or no?  I am not one of those

"Who would unnaturally better Nature By making out that that which is, is not."

If the law of Nature is "struggle," it is better to look the matter in the face and adapt yourself
to the conditions of your existence. Nature will not bow to you, neither will you mend matters
by patting her on the back and telling her that she is not so black as she is painted.  My
dear fellow, my dear sentimental friend, do you eat roast beef or roast mutton?

C.  Drop that chaff and go back to the matter in hand.

F.  To continue then with the cats.  Famine comes and tests them, so to speak; the weaker,
the less active, the less cunning, and the less enduring cats get killed off, and only the
strongest and smartest cats survive; there will be no favouritism shown to animals in a state
of Nature; they will be weighed in the balance, and the weight of a hair will sometimes decide
whether they shall be found wanting or no.  This being the case, the cats having been thus
naturally culled and the stronger having been preserved, there will be a gradual tendency to
improve manifested among the cats, even as among our own mobs of sheep careful culling tends
to improve the flock.

C.  This, too, is obvious.

F.  Extend this to all animals and plants, and the same thing will hold good concerning them
all.  I shall now change the ground and demand assent to another statement.  You know that
though the offspring of all plants and animals is in the main like the parent, yet that in
almost every instance slight deviations occur, and that sometimes there is even considerable
divergence from the parent type. It must also be admitted that these slight variations are
often, or at least sometimes, capable of being perpetuated by inheritance. Indeed, it is only
in consequence of this fact that our sheep and cattle have been capable of so much improvement.

C.  I admit this.

F.  Then the whole matter lies in a nutshell.  Suppose that hundreds of millions of years ago
there existed upon this earth a single primordial form of the very lowest life, or suppose
that three or four such primordial forms existed.  Change of climate, of food, of any of the
circumstances which surrounded any member of this first and lowest class of life would tend
to alter it in some slight manner, and the alteration would have a tendency to perpetuate itself
by inheritance.  Many failures would doubtless occur, but with the lapse of time slight deviations
would undoubtedly become permanent and inheritable, those alone being perpetuated which were
beneficial to individuals in whom they appeared.  Repeat the process with each deviation and
we shall again obtain divergences (in the course of ages) differing more strongly from the
ancestral form, and again those that enable their possessor to struggle for existence most
efficiently will be preserved.  Repeat this process for millions and millions of years, and,
as it is impossible to assign any limit to variability, it would seem as though the present
diversities of species must certainly have come about sooner or later, and that other divergences
will continue to come about to the end of time. The great agent in this development of life
has been competition. This has culled species after species, and secured that those alone should
survive which were best fitted for the conditions by which they found themselves surrounded.
Endeavour to take a bird's-eye view of the whole matter.  See battle after battle, first in
one part of the world, then in another, sometimes raging more fiercely and sometimes less;
even as in human affairs war has always existed in some part of the world from the earliest
known periods, and probably always will exist.  While a species is conquering in one part of
the world it is being subdued in another, and while its conquerors are indulging in their triumph
down comes the fiat for their being culled and drafted out, some to life and some to death,
and so forth ad infinitum.

C.  It is very horrid.

F.  No more horrid than that you should eat roast mutton or boiled beef.

C.  But it is utterly subversive of Christianity; for if this theory is true the fall of man
is entirely fabulous; and if the fall, then the redemption, these two being inseparably bound
together.

F.  My dear friend, there I am not bound to follow you.  I believe in Christianity, and I believe
in Darwin.  The two appear irreconcilable.  My answer to those who accuse me of inconsistency
is, that both being undoubtedly true, the one must be reconcilable with the other, and that
the impossibility of reconciling them must be only apparent and temporary, not real.  The reconciliation
will never be effected by planing a little off the one and a little off the other and then
gluing them together with glue.  People will not stand this sort of dealing, and the rejection
of the one truth or of the other is sure to follow upon any such attempt being persisted in.
The true course is to use the freest candour in the acknowledgment of the difficulty; to estimate
precisely its real value, and obtain a correct knowledge of its precise form.  Then and then
only is there a chance of any satisfactory result being obtained.  For unless the exact nature
of the difficulty be known first, who can attempt to remove it?  Let me re-state the matter
once again.  All animals and plants in a state of Nature are undergoing constant competition
for the necessaries of life.  Those that can hold their ground hold it; those that cannot hold
it are destroyed.  But as it also happens that slight changes of food, of habit, of climate,
of circumjacent accident, and so forth, produce a slight tendency to vary in the offspring
of any plant or animal, it follows that among these slight variations some may be favourable
to the individual in whom they appear, and may place him in a better position than his fellows
as regards the enemies with whom his interests come into collision.  In this case he will have
a better chance of surviving than his fellows; he will thus stand also a better chance of continuing
the species, and in his offspring his own slight divergence from the parent type will be apt
to appear.  However slight the divergence, if it be beneficial to the individual it is likely
to preserve the individual and to reappear in his offspring, and this process may be repeated
ad infinitum.  Once grant these two things, and the rest is a mere matter of time and degree.
That the immense differences between the camel and the pig should have come about in six thousand
years is not believable; but in six hundred million years it is not incredible, more especially
when we consider that by the assistance of geology a very perfect chain has been formed between
the two.  Let this instance suffice.  Once grant the principles, once grant that competition
is a great power in Nature, and that changes of circumstances and habits produce a tendency
to variation in the offspring (no matter how slight such variation may be), and unless you
can define the possible limit of such variation during an infinite series of generations, unless
you can show that there is a limit, and that Darwin's theory over-steps it, you have no right
to reject his conclusions.  As for the objections to the theory, Darwin has treated them with
admirable candour, and our time is too brief to enter into them here.  My recommendation to
you is that you should read the book again.

C.  Thank you, but for my own part I confess to caring very little whether my millionth ancestor
was a gorilla or no; and as Darwin's book does not please me, I shall not trouble myself further
about the matter.

BARREL-ORGANS:  [From the Press, 17 January, 1863.]

Dugald Stewart in his Dissertation on the Progress of Metaphysics says:  "On reflecting on
the repeated reproduction of ancient paradoxes by modern authors one is almost tempted to suppose
that human invention is limited, like a barrel-organ, to a specific number of tunes."

It would be a very amusing and instructive task for a man of reading and reflection to note
down the instances he meets with of these old tunes coming up again and again in regular succession
with hardly any change of note, and with all the old hitches and involuntary squeaks that the
barrel-organ had played in days gone by.  It is most amusing to see the old quotations repeated
year after year and volume after volume, till at last some more careful enquirer turns to the
passage referred to and finds that they have all been taken in and have followed the lead of
the first daring inventor of the mis-statement. Hallam has had the courage, in the supplement
to his History of the Middle Ages, p. 398, to acknowledge an error of this sort that he has
been led into.

But the particular instance of barrel-organism that is present to our minds just now is the
Darwinian theory of the development of species by natural selection, of which we hear so much.
This is nothing new, but a rechauffee of the old story that his namesake, Dr. Darwin, served
up in the end of the last century to Priestley and his admirers, and Lord Monboddo had cooked
in the beginning of the same century.  We have all heard of his theory that man was developed
directly from the monkey, and that we all lost our tails by sitting too much upon that appendage.

We learn from that same great and cautious writer Hallam in his History of Literature that
there are traces of this theory and of other popular theories of the present day in the works
of Giordano Bruno, the Neapolitan who was burnt at Rome by the Inquisition in 1600.  It is
curious to read the titles of his works and to think of Dugald Stewart's remark about barrel-organs.
For instance he wrote on "The Plurality of Worlds," and on the universal "Monad," a name familiar
enough to the readers of Vestiges of Creation.  He was a Pantheist, and, as Hallam says, borrowed
all his theories from the eclectic philosophers, from Plotinus and the Neo-Platonists, and
ultimately they were no doubt of Oriental origin.  This is just what has been shown again and
again to be the history of German Pantheism; it is a mere barrel-organ repetition of the Brahman
metaphysics found in Hindu cosmogonies.  Bruno's theory regarding development of species was
in Hallam's words:  "There is nothing so small or so unimportant but that a portion of spirit
dwells in it; and this spiritual substance requires a proper subject to become a plant or an
animal"; and Hallam in a note on this passage observes how the modern theories of equivocal
generation correspond with Bruno's.

No doubt Hallam is right in saying that they are all of Oriental origin.  Pythagoras borrowed
from thence his kindred theory of the metempsychosis, or transmigration of souls.  But he was
more consistent than modern philosophers; he recognised a downward development as well as an
upward, and made morality and immorality the crisis and turning-point of change--a bold lion
developed into a brave warrior, a drunken sot developed into a wallowing pig, and Darwin's
slave-making ants, p. 219, would have been formerly Virginian cotton and tobacco growers.

Perhaps Prometheus was the first Darwin of antiquity, for he is said to have begun his creation
from below, and after passing from the invertebrate to the sub-vertebrate, from thence to the
backbone, from the backbone to the mammalia, and from the mammalia to the manco- cerebral,
he compounded man of each and all:-

Fertur Prometheus addere principi Limo coactus particulam undique Desectam et insani leonis
Vim stomacho apposuisse nostro.

One word more about barrel-organs.  We have heard on the undoubted authority of ear and eyewitnesses,
that in a neighbouring province there is a church where the psalms are sung to a barrel-organ,
but unfortunately the psalm tunes come in the middle of the set, and the jigs and waltzes have
to be played through before the psalm can start.  Just so is it with Darwinism and all similar
theories.  All his fantasias, as we saw in a late article, are made to come round at last to
religious questions, with which really and truly they have nothing to do, but were it not for
their supposed effect upon religion, no one would waste his time in reading about the possibility
of Polar bears swimming about and catching flies so long that they at last get the fins they
wish for.

DARWIN ON SPECIES:  [From the Press, 21 February, 1863.]

To the Editor of the Press.

Sir--In two of your numbers you have already taken notice of Darwin's theory of the origin
of species; I would venture to trespass upon your space in order to criticise briefly both
your notices.

The first is evidently the composition of a warm adherent of the theory in question; the writer
overlooks all the real difficulties in the way of accepting it, and, caught by the obvious
truth of much that Darwin says, has rushed to the conclusion that all is equally true.  He
writes with the tone of a partisan, of one deficient in scientific caution, and from the frequent
repetition of the same ideas manifest in his dialogue one would be led to suspect that he was
but little versed in habits of literary composition and philosophical argument.  Yet he may
fairly claim the merit of having written in earnest.  He has treated a serious subject seriously
according to his lights; and though his lights are not brilliant ones, yet he has apparently
done his best to show the theory on which he is writing in its most favourable aspect.  He
is rash, evidently well satisfied with himself, very possibly mistaken, and just one of those
persons who (without intending it) are more apt to mislead than to lead the few people that
put their trust in them.  A few will always follow them, for a strong faith is always more
or less impressive upon persons who are too weak to have any definite and original faith of
their own.  The second writer, however, assumes a very different tone.  His arguments to all
practical intents and purposes run as follows:-

Old fallacies are constantly recurring.  Therefore Darwin's theory is a fallacy.

They come again and again, like tunes in a barrel-organ.  Therefore Darwin's theory is a fallacy.

Hallam made a mistake, and in his History of the Middle Ages, p. 398, he corrects himself.
Therefore Darwin's theory is wrong.

Dr. Darwin in the last century said the same thing as his son or grandson says now--will the
writer of the article refer to anything bearing on natural selection and the struggle for existence
in Dr. Darwin's work?--and a foolish nobleman said something foolish about monkey's tails.
Therefore Darwin's theory is wrong.

Giordano Bruno was burnt in the year 1600 A.D.; he was a Pantheist; therefore Darwin's theory
is wrong.

And finally, as a clinching argument, in one of the neighbouring settlements there is a barrel-organ
which plays its psalm tunes in the middle of its jigs and waltzes.  After this all lingering
doubts concerning the falsehood of Darwin's theory must be at an end, and any person of ordinary
common sense must admit that the theory of development by natural selection is unwarranted
by experience and reason.

The articles conclude with an implied statement that Darwin supposes the Polar bear to swim
about catching flies for so long a period that at last it gets the fins it wishes for.

Now, however sceptical I may yet feel about the truth of all Darwin's theory, I cannot sit
quietly by and see him misrepresented in such a scandalously slovenly manner.  What Darwin
does say is that sometimes diversified and changed habits may be observed in individuals of
the same species; that is that there are eccentric animals just as there are eccentric men.
This and nothing more.  (See pp. 201 and 202.)

Because Darwin says that a bear of rather eccentric habits happened to be seen by Hearne swimming
for hours and catching insects almost like a whale, your writer (with a carelessness hardly
to be reprehended in sufficiently strong terms) asserts by implication that Darwin supposes
the whale to be developed from the bear by the latter having had a strong desire to possess
fins.  This is disgraceful.

I can hardly be mistaken in supposing that I have quoted the passage your writer alludes to.
Should I be in error, I trust he will give the reference to the place in which Darwin is guilty
of the nonsense that is fathered upon him in your article.

It must be remembered that there have been few great inventions in physics or discoveries in
science which have not been foreshadowed to a certain extent by speculators who were indeed
mistaken, but were yet more or less on the right scent.  Day is heralded by dawn, Apollo by
Aurora, and thus it often happens that a real discovery may wear to the careless observer much
the same appearance as an exploded fallacy, whereas in fact it is widely different.  As much
caution is due in the rejection of a theory as in the acceptation of it.  The first of your
writers is too hasty in accepting, the second in refusing even a candid examination.

Now, when the Saturday Review, the Cornhill Magazine, Once a Week, and Macmillan's Magazine,
not to mention other periodicals, have either actually and completely as in the case of the
first two, provisionally as in the last mentioned, given their adherence to the theory in question,
it may be taken for granted that the arguments in its favour are sufficiently specious to have
attracted the attention and approbation of a considerable number of well-educated men in England.
Three months ago the theory of development by natural selection was openly supported by Professor
Huxley before the British Association at Cambridge.  I am not adducing Professor Huxley's advocacy
as a proof that Darwin is right (indeed, Owen opposed him tooth and nail), but as a proof that
there is sufficient to be said on Darwin's side to demand more respectful attention than your
last writer has thought it worth while to give it.  A theory which the British Association
is discussing with great care in England is not to be set down by off-hand nicknames in Canterbury.

To those, however, who do feel an interest in the question, I would venture to give a word
or two of advice.  I would strongly deprecate forming a hurried opinion for or against the
theory.  Naturalists in Europe are canvassing the matter with the utmost diligence, and a few
years must show whether they will accept the theory or no.  It is plausible; that can be decided
by no one.  Whether it is true or no can be decided only among naturalists themselves.  We
are outsiders, and most of us must be content to sit on the stairs till the great men come
forth and give us the benefit of their opinion.

I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, A. M.

DARWIN ON SPECIES:  [From the Press, March 14th, 1863.]

To the Editor of the Press.  This is one of the trade forms by which writers imply that there
is no such passage, and yet leave a loophole if they are proved wrong.  The anthers or stigmas
are therefore separate beings."

This passage contains the germ of Mr. Charles Darwin's theory of the origin of species by natural
selection:-

"Analogy would lead me to the belief that all animals and plants have descended from one prototype."

Here are a few specimens, his illustrations of the theory:-

"There seems to me no great difficulty in believing that natural selection has actually converted
a swim-bladder into a lung or organ used exclusively for respiration."  "A swim-bladder has
apparently been converted into an air-breathing lung."  "We must be cautious in concluding
that a bat could not have been formed by natural selection from an animal which at first could
only glide through the air."

I do not mean to go through your correspondent's letter, otherwise "I could hardly reprehend
in sufficiently strong terms" (and all that sort of thing) the perversion of what I said about
Giordano Bruno. But "ex uno disce omnes"--I am, etc.,

"THE SAVOYARD."

DARWIN ON SPECIES:  [From the Press, 18 March, 1863.]

To the Editor of the Press.

Sir--The "Savoyard" of last Saturday has shown that he has perused Darwin's Botanic Garden
with greater attention than myself.  I am obliged to him for his correction of my carelessness,
and have not the smallest desire to make use of any loopholes to avoid being "proved wrong."
Let, then, the "Savoyard's" assertion that Dr. Darwin had to a certain extent forestalled Mr.
C. Darwin stand, and let my implied denial that in the older Darwin's works passages bearing
on natural selection, or the struggle for existence, could be found, go for nought, or rather
let it be set down against me.

What follows?  Has the "Savoyard" (supposing him to be the author of the article on barrel-organs)
adduced one particle of real argument the more to show that the real Darwin's theory is wrong?

The elder Darwin writes in a note that "he is acquainted with a philosopher who thinks it not
impossible that the first insects were the anthers or stigmas of flowers, which by some means,
etc. etc." This is mere speculation, not a definite theory, and though the passage above as
quoted by the" Savoyard" certainly does contain the germ of Darwin's theory, what is it more
than the crudest and most unshapen germ?  And in what conceivable way does this discovery of
the egg invalidate the excellence of the chicken?

Was there ever a great theory yet which was not more or less developed from previous speculations
which were all to a certain extent wrong, and all ridiculed, perhaps not undeservedly, at the
time of their appearance?  There is a wide difference between a speculation and a theory. 
A speculation involves the notion of a man climbing into a lofty position, and descrying a
somewhat remote object which he cannot fully make out.  A theory implies that the theorist
has looked long and steadfastly till he is clear in his own mind concerning the nature of the
thing which he is beholding.  I submit that the "Savoyard" has unfairly made use of the failure
of certain speculations in order to show that a distinct theory is untenable.

Let it be granted that Darwin's theory has been foreshadowed by numerous previous writers.
Grant the "Savoyard" his Giordano Bruno, and give full weight to the barrel-organ in a neighbouring
settlement, I would still ask, has the theory of natural development of species ever been placed
in anything approaching its present clear and connected form before the appearance of Mr. Darwin's
book?  Has it ever received the full attention of the scientific world as a duly organised
theory, one presented in a tangible shape and demanding investigation, as the conclusion arrived
at by a man of known scientific attainments after years of patient toil?  The upshot of the
barrel-organs article was to answer this question in the affirmative and to pooh-pooh all further
discussion.

It would be mere presumption on my part either to attack or defend Darwin, but my indignation
was roused at seeing him misrepresented and treated disdainfully.  I would wish, too, that
the "Savoyard" would have condescended to notice that little matter of the bear.  I have searched
my copy of Darwin again and again to find anything relating to the subject except what I have
quoted in my previous letter.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant, A. M.

DARWIN ON SPECIES:  [From the Press, April 11th, 1863.]

To the Editor of the Press.

Sir--Your correspondent "A. M." is pertinacious on the subject of the bear being changed into
a whale, which I said Darwin contemplated as not impossible.  I did not take the trouble in
any former letter to answer him on that point, as his language was so intemperate.  He has
modified his tone in his last letter, and really seems open to the conviction that he may be
the "careless" writer after all; and so on reflection I have determined to give him the opportunity
of doing me justice.

Then follows a passage about my carelessness, which (he says) is hardly to be reprehended in
sufficiently strong terms, and he ends with saying:  "This is disgraceful."

Now this passage was a remarkable instance of the idea that I was illustrating in the article
on "Barrel-organs," because Buffon in his Histoire Naturelle had conceived a theory of degeneracy
(the exact converse of Darwin's theory of ascension) by which the bear might pass into a seal,
and that into a whale.  Trusting now to the fairness of "A. M."  I leave to him to say whether
he has quoted from the same edition as I have, and whether the additional words I have quoted
are in his edition, and if so whether he has not been guilty of a great injustice to me; and
if they are not in his edition, whether he has not been guilty of great haste and "carelessness"
in taking for granted that I have acted in so "disgraceful" a manner.

I am, Sir, etc., "The Savoyard," or player on Barrel-organs.

(The paragraph in question has been the occasion of much discussion. The only edition in our
hands is the third, seventh thousand, which contains the paragraph as quoted by "A. M."  We
have heard that it is different in earlier editions, but have not been able to find one. The
difference between "A. M." and "The Savoyard" is clearly one of different editions.  Darwin
appears to have been ashamed of the inconsequent inference suggested, and to have withdrawn
it.--Ed. the Press.)

DARWIN ON SPECIES:  [From the Press, 22nd June, 1863.]

To the Editor of the Press.

Sir--I extract the following from an article in the Saturday Review of January 10, 1863, on
the vertebrated animals of the Zoological Gardens.

"As regards the ducks, for example, inter-breeding goes on to a very great extent among nearly
all the genera, which are well represented in the collection.  We think it unfortunate that
the details of these crosses have not hitherto been made public.  The Zoological Society has
existed about thirty-five years, and we imagine that evidence must have been accumulated almost
enough to make or mar that part of Mr. Darwin's well-known argument which rests on what is
known of the phenomena of hybridism.  The present list reveals only one fact bearing on the
subject, but that is a noteworthy one, for it completely overthrows the commonly accepted theory
that the mixed offspring of different species are infertile inter se.  At page 15 (of the list
of vertebrated animals living in the gardens of the Zoological Society of London, Longman and
Co., 1862) we find enumerated three examples of hybrids between two perfectly distinct species,
and even, according to modern classification, between two distinct genera of ducks, for three
or four generations.  There can be little doubt that a series of researches in this branch
of experimental physiology, which might be carried on at no great loss, would place zoologists
in a far better position with regard to a subject which is one of the most interesting if not
one of the most important in natural history."

I fear that both you and your readers will be dead sick of Darwin, but the above is worthy
of notice.  My compliments to the "Savoyard."

Your obedient servant, May 17th.  A. M.

DARWIN AMONG THE MACHINES

"Darwin Among the Machines" originally appeared in the Christ Church PRESS, 13 June, 1863.
It was reprinted by Mr. Festing Jones in his edition of THE NOTE-BOOKS OF SAMUEL BUTLER (Fifield,
London, 1912, Kennerley, New York), with a prefatory note pointing out its connection with
the genesis of EREWHON, to which readers desirous of further information may be referred.

A NOTE ON "THE TEMPEST" Act III, Scene I

The following brief essay was contributed by Butler to a small miscellany entitled LITERARY
FOUNDLINGS:  VERSE AND PROSE, COLLECTED IN CANTERBURY, N.Z., which was published at Christ
Church on the occasion of a bazaar held there in March, 1864, in aid of the funds of the Christ
Church Orphan Asylum, and offered for sale during the progress of the bazaar.  The miscellany
consisted entirely of the productions of Canterbury writers, and among the contributors were
Dean Jacobs, Canon Cottrell, and James Edward FitzGerald, the founder of the PRESS.

When Prince Ferdinand was wrecked on the island Miranda was fifteen years old.  We can hardly
suppose that she had ever seen Ariel, and Caliban was a detestable object whom her father took
good care to keep as much out of her way as possible.  Caliban was like the man cook on a back-country
run.  "'Tis a villain, sir," says Miranda.  "I do not love to look on."  "But as 'tis," returns
Prospero, "we cannot miss him; he does make our fire, fetch in our wood, and serve in offices
that profit us."  Hands were scarce, and Prospero was obliged to put up with Caliban in spite
of the many drawbacks with which his services were attended; in fact, no one on the island
could have liked him, for Ariel owed him a grudge on the score of the cruelty with which he
had been treated by Sycorax, and we have already heard what Miranda and Prospero had to say
about him.  He may therefore pass for nobody.  Prospero was an old man, or at any rate in all
probability some forty years of age; therefore it is no wonder that when Miranda saw Prince
Ferdinand she should have fallen violently in love with him.  A very natural sentiment for
a girl in Miranda's circumstances, but nevertheless one which betrayed a charming inexperience
of the ways of the world and of the real value of good looks.  What surprises us, however,
is this, namely the remarkable celerity with which Miranda in a few hours became so thoroughly
wide awake to the exigencies of the occasion in consequence of her love for the Prince.  Prospero
has set Ferdinand to hump firewood out of the bush, and to pile it up for the use of the cave.
Ferdinand is for the present a sort of cadet, a youth of good family, without cash and unaccustomed
to manual labour; his unlucky stars have landed him on the island, and now it seems that he
"must remove some thousands of these logs and pile them up, upon a sore injunction."  Poor
fellow!  Miranda's heart bleeds for him.  Her "affections were most humble"; she had been content
to take Ferdinand on speculation.  On first seeing him she had exclaimed, "I have no ambition
to see a goodlier man"; and it makes her blood boil to see this divine creature compelled to
such an ignominious and painful labour.  What is the family consumption of firewood to her?
Let Caliban do it; let Prospero do it; or make Ariel do it; let her do it herself; or let the
lightning come down and "burn up those logs you are enjoined to pile";--the logs themselves,
while burning, would weep for having wearied him.  Come what would, it was a shame to make
Ferdinand work so hard, so she winds up thus:  "My father is hard at study; pray now rest yourself--HE'S
SAFE FOR THESE THREE HOURS." Safe--if she had only said that "papa was safe," the sentence
would have been purely modern, and have suited Thackeray as well as Shakspeare.  See how quickly
she has learnt to regard her father as one to be watched and probably kept in a good humour
for the sake of Ferdinand.  We suppose that the secret of the modern character of this particular
passage lies simply in the fact that young people make love pretty much in the same way now
that they did three hundred years ago; and possibly, with the exception that "the governor"
may be substituted for the words "my father" by the young ladies of three hundred years hence,
the passage will sound as fresh and modern then as it does now.  Let the Prosperos of that
age take a lesson, and either not allow the Ferdinands to pile up firewood, or so to arrange
their studies as not to be "safe" for any three consecutive hours. It is true that Prospero's
objection to the match was only feigned, but Miranda thought otherwise, and for all purposes
of argument we are justified in supposing that he was in earnest.

THE ENGLISH CRICKETERS

The following lines were written by Butler in February, 1864, and appeared in the PRESS.  They
refer to a visit paid to New Zealand by a team of English cricketers, and have kindly been
copied and sent to me by Miss Colborne-Veel, whose father was editor of the PRESS at the time
that Butler was writing for it.  Miss Colborne-Veel has further permitted to me to make use
of the following explanatory note:  "The coming of the All England team was naturally a glorious
event in a province only fourteen years old.  The Mayor and Councillors had 'a car of state'--otherwise
a brake--'with postilions in the English style.'  Cobb and Co. supplied a six-horse coach for
the English eleven, the yellow paint upon which suggested the 'glittering chariot of pure gold.'
So they drove in triumph from the station and through the town.  Tinley for England and Tennant
for Canterbury were the heroes of the match.  At the Wednesday dinner referred to they exchanged
compliments and cricket balls across the table.  This early esteem for cricket may be explained
by a remark made by the All England captain, that 'on no cricket ground in any colony had he
met so many public school men, especially men from old Rugby, as at Canterbury.'"

 [To the Editor, the Press, February 15th, 1864.]

Sir--The following lines, which profess to have been written by a friend of mine at three o'clock
in the morning after the dinner of Wednesday last, have been presented to myself with a request
that I should forward them to you.  I would suggest to the writer of them the following quotation
from "Love's Labour's Lost."

I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, S.B.

"You find not the apostrophes, and so miss the accent; let me supervise the canzonet.  Here
are only numbers ratified; but for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret . . .

Love's Labour's Lost, Act IV, S. 2.

HORATIO . . .

. . . The whole town rose
Eyes out to meet them; in a car of state
The Mayor and all the Councillors rode down
To give them greeting, while the blue-eyed team
Drawn in Cobb's glittering chariot of pure gold
Careered it from the station.--But the Mayor -
Thou shouldst have seen the blandness of the man,
And watched the effulgent and unspeakable smiles
With which he beamed upon them.
His beard, by nature tawny, was suffused
With just so much of a most reverend grizzle
That youth and age should kiss in't.  I assure you
He was a Southern Palmerston, so old
In understanding, yet jocund and jaunty
As though his twentieth summer were as yet
But in the very June o' the year, and winter
Was never to be dreamt of.  Those who heard
His words stood ravished.  It was all as one
As though Minerva, hid in Mercury's jaws,
Had counselled some divinest utterance
Of honeyed wisdom.  So profound, so true,
So meet for the occasion, and so--short.
The king sat studying rhetoric as he spoke,
While the lord Abbot heaved half-envious sighs
And hung suspended on his accents.
   CLAUD.  But will it pay, Horatio?
   HOR.  Let Shylock see to that, but yet I trust
He's no great loser.
   CLAUD.  Which side went in first?
   HOR.        We did,
And scored a paltry thirty runs in all.
The lissom Lockyer gambolled round the stumps
With many a crafty curvet:  you had thought
An Indian rubber monkey were endued
With wicket-keeping instincts; teazing Tinley
Issued his treacherous notices to quit,
Ruthlessly truthful to his fame, and who
Shall speak of Jackson?  Oh! 'twas sad indeed
To watch the downcast faces of our men
Returning from the wickets; one by one,
Like patients at the gratis consultation
Of some skilled leech, they took their turn at physic.
And each came sadly homeward with a face
Awry through inward anguish; they were pale
As ghosts of some dead but deep mourned love,
Grim with a great despair, but forced to smile.
   CLAUD.  Poor souls!  Th' unkindest heart had bled for them.
But what came after?
   HOR.        Fortune turned her wheel,
And Grace, disgraced for the nonce, was bowled
First ball, and all the welkin roared applause!
As for the rest, they scored a goodly score
And showed some splendid cricket, but their deeds
Were not colossal, and our own brave Tennant
Proved himself all as good a man as they.
* * * * *
Through them we greet our Mother.  In their coming,
We shake our dear old England by the hand
And watch space dwindling, while the shrinking world
Collapses into nothing.  Mark me well,
Matter as swift as swiftest thought shall fly,
And space itself be nowhere.  Future Tinleys
Shall bowl from London to our Christ Church Tennants,
And all the runs for all the stumps be made
In flying baskets which shall come and go
And do the circuit round about the globe
Within ten seconds.  Do not check me with
The roundness of the intervening world,
The winds, the mountain ranges, and the seas -
These hinder nothing; for the leathern sphere,
Like to a planetary satellite,
Shall wheel its faithful orb and strike the bails
Clean from the centre of the middle stump.
* * * * *
Mirrors shall hang suspended in the air,
Fixed by a chain between two chosen stars,
And every eye shall be a telescope
To read the passing shadows from the world.
Such games shall be hereafter, but as yet
We lay foundations only.
   CLAUD.  Thou must be drunk, Horatio.
   HOR.        So I am.

