The Wise One heeded her not, but walked to and fro. His eyes were turned to the distant peaks,
the abode of his brothers. The starlight fell about him; a sweet air came down the mountain
path, fluttering his white robe; he did not cease from his steady musing. Lilith wavered in
her cave like a mist rising between rocks. Her raiment was violet, with silvery gleams. Her
face was dim, and over her head rayed a shadowy diadem, like that which a man imagines over
the head of his beloved: and one looking closer at her face would have seen that this was the
crown he reached out to; that the eyes burnt with his own longing; that the lips were parted
to yield to the secret wishes of his heart.

"Tell me, for I would know, why do you wait so long? I, here in my cave between the valley
and the height, blind the eyes of all who would pass. Those who by chance go forth to you,
come back to me again, and but one in ten thousand passes on. My illusions are sweeter to them
than truth. I offer every soul its own shadow. I pay them their own price. I have grown rich,
though the simple shepards of old gave me birth. Men have made me; the mortals have made me
immortal. I rose up like a vapor from their first dreams, and every sigh since then and every
laugh remains with me. I am made up of hopes and fears. The subtle princes lay out their plans
of conquest in my cave, and there the hero dreams, and there the lovers of all time write in
flame their history. I am wise, holding all experience, to tempt, to blind, to terrify. None
shall pass by. Why, therefore, dost thou wait?"

The Wise One looked at her, and she shrank back a little, and a little her silver and violet
faded, but out of her cave her voice still sounded:

"The stars and the starry crown are not yours alone to offer, and every promise you make I
make also. I offer the good and the bad indifferently. The lover, the poet, the mystic, and
all who would drink of the first fountain, I delude with my mirage. I was the Beatrice who
led Dante upwards: the gloom was in me, and the glory was mine also, and he went not out of
my cave. The stars and the shining of heaven were illusions of the infinite I wove about him.
I captured his soul with the shadow of space; a nutshell would have contained the film. I smote
on the dim heart-chords the manifold music of being. God is sweeter in the human than the human
in God. Therefore he rested in me."

She paused a little, and then went on: "There is that fantastic fellow who slipped by me. Could
your wisdom not retain him? He returned to me full of anguish, and I wound my arms round him
like a fair melancholy; and now his sadness is as sweet to him as hope was before his fall.
Listen to his song!" She paused again. A voice came up from the depths chanting a sad knowledge:

     What of all the will to do?
          It has vanished long ago,
     For a dream-shaft pierced it through
          From the Unknown Archer's bow.

     What of all the soul to think?
          Some one offered it a cup
     Filled with a diviner drink,
          And the flame has burned it up.

     What of all the hope to climb?
          Only in the self we grope
     To the misty end of time,
          Truth has put an end to hope.

     What of all the heart to love?
          Sadder than for will or soul,
     No light lured it on above:
          Love has found itself the whole.

"Is it not pitiful? I pity only those who pity themselves. Yet he is mine more surely than
ever. This is the end of human wisdom. How shall he now escape? What shall draw him up?"

"His will shall awaken," said the Wise One. "I do not sorrow over him, for long is the darkness
before the spirit is born. He learns in your caves not to see, not to hear, not to think, for
very anguish flying your illusions."

"Sorrow is a great bond," Lilith said.

"It is a bond to the object of sorrow. He weeps what thou canst never give him, a life never
breathed in thee. He shall come forth, and thou shalt not see him at the time of passing. When
desire dies the swift and invisible will awakens. He shall go forth; and one by one the dwellers
in your caves will awaken and pass onward. This small old path will be trodden by generation
after generation. Thou, too, O shining Lilith, shalt follow, not as mistress, but as handmaiden."

"I will weave spells," Lilith cried. "They shall never pass me. I will drug them with the sweetest
poison. They shall rest drowsily and content as of old. Were they not giants long ago, mighty
men and heroes? I overcame them with young enchantment. Shall they pass by feeble and longing
for bygone joys, for the sins of their exultant youth, while I have grown into a myriad wisdom?"

The Wise One walked to and fro as before, and there was silence: and I saw that with steady
will he pierced the tumultuous gloom of the cave, and a spirit awoke here and there from its
dream. And I though I saw that Sad Singer become filled with a new longing for true being,
and that the illusions of good and evil fell from him, and that he came at last to the knees
of the Wise One to learn the supreme truth. In the misty midnight I hear these three voices--the
Sad Singer, the Enchantress Lilith, and the Wise One. From the Sad Singer I learned that thought
of itself leads nowhere, but blows the perfume from every flower, and cuts the flower from
every tree, and hews down every tree from the valley, and in the end goes to and fro in waste
places--gnawing itself in a last hunger. I learned from Lilith that we weave our own enchantment,
and bind ourselves with out own imagination. To think of the true as beyond us or to love the
symbol of being is to darken the path to wisdom, and to debar us from eternal beauty. From
the Wise One I learned that the truest wisdom is to wait, to work, and to will in secret. Those
who are voiceless today, tomorrow shall be eloquent, and the earth shall hear them and her
children salute them. Of these three truths the hardest to learn is the silent will. Let us
seek for the highest truth.

1894

THE STORY OF A STAR

The emotions that haunted me in that little cathedral town would be most difficult to describe.
After the hurry, rattle, and fever of the city, the rare weeks spent here were infinitely peaceful.
They were full of a quaint sense of childhood, with sometimes a deeper chord touched--the giant
and spiritual things childhood has dreams of. The little room I slept in had opposite its window
the great gray cathedral wall; it was only in the evening that the sunlight crept round it
and appeared in the room strained through the faded green blind. It must have been this silvery
quietness of color which in some subtle way affected me with the feeling of a continual Sabbath;
and this was strengthened by the bells chiming hour after hour. The pathos, penitence, and
hope expressed by the flying notes colored the intervals with faint and delicate memories.
They haunted my dreams, and I heard with unutterable longing the dreamy chimes pealing from
some dim and vast cathedral of the cosmic memory, until the peace they tolled became almost
a nightmare, and I longed for utter oblivion or forgetfulness of their reverberations.

More remarkable were the strange lapses into other worlds and times. Almost as frequent as
the changing of the bells were the changes from state to state. I realized what is meant by
the Indian philosophy of Maya. Truly my days were full of Mayas, and my work-a-day city life
was no more real to me than one of those bright, brief glimpses of things long past. I talk
of the past, and yet these moments taught me how false our ideas of time are. In the Ever-living
yesterday, today, and tomorrow are words of no meaning. I know I fell into what we call the
past and the things I counted as dead for ever were the things I had yet to endure. Out of
the old age of earth I stepped into its childhood, and received once more the primal blessing
of youth, ecstasy, and beauty. But these things are too vast and vague to speak of, the words
we use today cannot tell their story. Nearer to our time is the legend that follows.

I was, I thought, one of the Magi of old Persia, inheritor of its unforgotten lore, and using
some of its powers. I tried to pierce through the great veil of nature, and feel the life that
quickened it within. I tried to comprehend the birth and growth of planets, and to do this
I rose spiritually and passed beyond earth's confines into that seeming void which is the Matrix
where they germinate. On one of these journeys I was struck by the phantasm, so it seemed,
of a planet I had not observed before. I could not then observe closer, and coming again on
another occasion it had disappeared. After the lapse of many months I saw it once more, brilliant
with fiery beauty. Its motion was slow, revolving around some invisible centre. I pondered
over it, and seemed to know that the invisible centre was its primordial spiritual state, from
which it emerged a little while and into which it then withdrew. Short was its day; its shining
faded into a glimmer, and then into darkness in a few months. I learned its time and cycles;
I made preparations and determined to await its coming.

The Birth of a Planet

At first silence and then an inner music, and then the sounds of song throughout the vastness
of its orbit grew as many in number as there were stars at gaze. Avenues and vistas of sound!
They reeled to and fro. They poured from a universal stillness quick with unheard things. They
rushed forth and broke into a myriad voices gay with childhood. From age and the eternal they
rushed forth into youth. They filled the void with reveling and exultation. In rebellion they
then returned and entered the dreadful Fountain. Again they came forth, and the sounds faded
into whispers; they rejoiced once again, and again died into silence.

And now all around glowed a vast twilight; it filled the cradle of the planet with colorless
fire. I felt a rippling motion which impelled me away from the centre to the circumference.
At that began to curdle, a milky and nebulous substance rocked to and fro. At every motion
the pulsation of its rhythm carried it farther and farther away from the centre; it grew darker,
and a great purple shadow covered it so that I could see it no longer. I was now on the outer
verge, where the twilight still continued to encircle the planet with zones of clear transparent
light.

As night after night I rose up to visit it they grew many-colored and brighter. I saw the imagination
of nature visibly at work. I wandered through shadowy immaterial forests, a titanic vegetation
built up of light and color; I saw it growing denser, hung with festoons and trailers of fire,
and spotted with the light of myriad flowers such as earth never knew. Coincident with the
appearance of these things I felt within myself, as if in harmonious movement, a sense of joyousness,
an increase of self-consciousness: I felt full of gladness, youth, and the mystery of the new.
I felt that greater powers were about to appear, those who had thrown outwards this world and
erected it as a place in space.

I could not tell half the wonder of this strange race. I could not myself comprehend more than
a little of the mystery of their being. They recognized my presence there, and communicated
with me in such a way that I can only describe it by saying that they seemed to enter into
my soul, breathing a fiery life; yet I knew that the highest I could reach to was but the outer
verge of their spiritual nature, and to tell you but a little I have many times to translate
it; for in the first unity with their thought I touched on an almost universal sphere of life,
I peered into the ancient heart that beats throughout time; and this knowledge became change
in me, first into a vast and nebulous symbology, and so down through many degrees of human
thought into words which hold not at all the pristine and magical beauty.

I stood before one of this race, and I thought, "What is the meaning and end of life here?"
Within me I felt the answering ecstasy that illuminated with vistas of dawn and rest: It seemed
to say:

"Our spring and our summer are unfolding into light and form, and our autumn and winter are
a fading into the infinite soul."

I questioned in my heart, "To what end is this life poured forth and withdrawn?"

He came nearer and touched me; once more I felt the thrill of being that changed itself into
vision.

"The end is creation, and creation is joy. The One awakens out of quiescence as we come forth,
and knows itself in us; as we return we enter it in gladness, knowing ourselves. After long
cycles the world you live in will become like ours; it will be poured forth and withdrawn;
a mystic breath, a mirror to glass your being."

He disappeared while I wondered what cyclic changes would transmute our ball of mud into the
subtle substance of thought.

In that world I dared not stay during its period of withdrawal; having entered a little into
its life, I became subject to its laws; the Powers on its return would have dissolved my being
utterly. I felt with a wild terror its clutch upon me, and I withdrew from the departing glory,
from the greatness that was my destiny--but not yet.

From such dreams I would be aroused, perhaps, by a gentle knock at my door, and my little cousin
Margaret's quaint face would peep in with a "Cousin Robert, are you not coming down to supper?"

Of these visions in the light of after thought I would speak a little. All this was but symbol,
requiring to be thrice sublimed in interpretation ere its true meaning can be grasped. I do
not know whether worlds are heralded by such glad songs, or whether any have such a fleeting
existence, for the mind that reflects truth is deluded with strange phantasies of time and
place in which seconds are rolled out into centuries and long cycles are reflected in an instant
of time. There is within us a little space through which all the threads of the universe are
drawn; and, surrounding that incomprehensible centre, the mind of man sometimes catches glimpses
of things which are true only in those glimpses; when we record them the true has vanished,
and a shadowy story--such as this--alone remains. Yet, perhaps, the time is not altogether
wasted in considering legends like these, for they reveal, though but in phantasy and symbol,
a greatness we are heirs to, a destiny which is ours though it be yet far away.

1894

A DREAM OF ANGUS OGE

The day had been wet and wild, and the woods looked dim and drenched from the window where
Con sat. All the day long his ever restless feet were running to the door in a vain hope of
sunshine. His sister, Norah, to quiet him had told him over and over again the tales which
delighted him, the delight of hearing which was second only to the delight of living them over
himself, when as Cuculain he kept the ford which led to Ulla, his sole hero heart matching
the hosts of Meave; or as Fergus he wielded the sword of light the Druids made and gave to
the champion, which in its sweep shore away the crests of the mountains; or as Brian, the ill-fated
child of Turann, he went with his brothers in the ocean-sweeping boat farther than ever Columbus
traveled, winning one by one in dire conflict with kings and enchanters the treasures which
would appease the implacable heart of Lu.

He had just died in a corner of the room from his many wounds when Norah came in declaring
that all these famous heroes must go to bed. He protested in vain, but indeed he was sleepy,
and before he had been carried half-way to the room the little soft face drooped with half-closed
eyes, while he drowsily rubbed his nose upon her shoulder in an effort to keep awake. For a
while she flitted about him, looking, with her dark, shadowy hair flickering in the dim, silver
light like one of the beautiful heroines of Gaelic romance, or one of the twilight, race of
the Sidhe. Before going she sat by his bed and sang to him some verses of a song, set to an
old Celtic air whose low intonations were full of a half-soundless mystery:

     Over the hill-tops the gay lights are peeping;
          Down in the vale where the dim fleeces stray
     Ceases the smoke from the hamlet upcreeping:
          Come, thou, my shepherd, and lead me away.

"Who's the shepherd?" said the boy, suddenly sitting up.

"Hush, alannah, I will tell you another time." She continued still more softly:

     Lord of the Wand, draw forth from the darkness,
          Warp of the silver, and woof of the gold:
     Leave the poor shade there bereft in its starkness:
          Wrapped in the fleece we will enter the Fold.

     There from the many-orbed heart where the Mother
          Breathes forth the love on her darlings who roam,
     We will send dreams to their land of another
          Land of the Shining, their birthplace and home.

He would have asked a hundred questions, but she bent over him, enveloping him with a sudden
nightfall of hair, to give him his good-night kiss, and departed. Immediately the boy sat up
again; all his sleepiness gone. The pure, gay, delicate spirit of childhood was darting at
ideas dimly perceived in the delicious moonlight of romance which silvered his brain, where
may airy and beautiful figures were moving: The Fianna with floating locks chasing the flying
deer; shapes more solemn, vast, and misty, guarding the avenues to unspeakable secrets; but
he steadily pursued his idea.

"I guess he's one of the people who take you away to faeryland. Wonder if he'd come to me?
Think it's easy going away," with an intuitive perception of the frailty of the link binding
childhood to earth in its dreams. (As a man Con will strive with passionate intensity to regain
that free, gay motion in the upper airs.) "Think I'll try if he'll come," and he sang, with
as near an approach as he could make to the glimmering cadences of his sister's voice:

     Come, thou, my shepherd, and lead me away.

He then lay back quite still and waited. He could not say whether hours or minutes had passed,
or whether he had slept or not, until he was aware of a tall golden-bearded man standing by
his bed. Wonderfully light was this figure, as if the sunlight ran through his limbs; a spiritual
beauty was on the face, and those strange eyes of bronze and gold with their subtle intense
gaze made Con aware for the first time of the difference between inner and out in himself.

"Come, Con, come away!" the child seemed to hear uttered silently.

"You're the Shepherd!" said Con, "I'll go." Then suddenly, "I won't come back and be old when
they're all dead?" a vivid remembrance of Ossian's fate flashing upon him.

A most beautiful laughter, which again to Con seemed half soundless, came in reply. His fears
vanished; the golden-bearded man stretched a hand over him for a moment, and he found himself
out in the night, now clear and starlit. Together they moved on as if borne by the wind, past
many woods and silver-gleaming lakes, and mountains which shone like a range of opals below
the purple skies. The Shepherd stood still for a moment by one of these hills, and there flew
out, riverlike, a melody mingled with a tinkling as of innumerable elfin hammers, and there,
was a sound of many gay voices where an unseen people were holding festival, or enraptured
hosts who were let loose for the awakening, the new day which was to dawn, for the delighted
child felt that faeryland was come over again with its heroes and battles.

"Our brothers rejoice," said the Shepherd to Con.

"Who are they?" asked the boy.

"They are the thoughts of our Father."

"May we go in?" Con asked, for he was fascinated by the melody, mystery, and flashing lights.

"Not now. We are going to my home where I lived in the days past when there came to me many
kings and queens of ancient Eire, many heroes and beautiful women, who longed for the Druid
wisdom we taught."

"And did you fight like Finn, and carry spears as tall as trees, and chase the deer through
the Woods, and have feastings and singing?"

"No, we, the Dananns, did none of those things--but those who were weary of battle, and to
whom feast and song brought no pleasure, came to us and passed hence to a more wonderful land,
a more immortal land than this."

As he spoke he paused before a great mound, grown over with trees, and around it silver clear
in the moonlight were immense stones piled, the remains of an original circle, and there was
a dark, low, narrow entrance leading within. He took Con by the hand, and in an instant they
were standing in a lofty, cross-shaped cave, built roughly of huge stones.

"This was my palace. In days past many a one plucked here the purple flower of magic and the
fruit of the tree of life."

"It is very dark," said the child disconsolately. He had expected something different.

"Nay, but look: you will see it is the palace of a god." And even as he spoke a light began
to glow and to pervade the cave and to obliterate the stone walls and the antique hieroglyphs
engraved thereon, and to melt the earthen floor into itself like a fiery sun suddenly uprisen
within the world, and there was everywhere a wandering ecstasy of sound: light and sound were
one; light had a voice, and the music hung glittering in the air.

"Look, how the sun is dawning for us, ever dawning; in the earth, in our hearts, with ever
youthful and triumphant voices. Your sun is but a smoky shadow, ours the ruddy and eternal
glow; yours is far way, ours is heart and hearth and home; yours is a light without, ours a
fire within, in rock, in river, in plain, everywhere living, everywhere dawning, whence also
it cometh that the mountains emit their wondrous rays."

As he spoke he seemed to breathe the brilliance of that mystical sunlight and to dilate and
tower, so that the child looked up to a giant pillar of light, having in his heart a sun of
ruddy gold which shed its blinding rays about him, and over his head there was a waving of
fiery plumage and on his face an ecstasy of beauty and immortal youth.

"I am Angus," Con heard; "men call me the Young. I am the sunlight in the heart, the moonlight
in the mind; I am the light at the end of every dream, the voice for ever calling to come away;
I am the desire beyond you or tears. Come with me, come with me, I will make you immortal;
for my palace opens into the Gardens of the Sun, and there are the fire-fountains which quench
the heart's desire in rapture." And in the child's dream he was in a palace high as the stars,
with dazzling pillars jeweled like the dawn, and all fashioned out of living and trembling
opal. And upon their thrones sat the Danann gods with their sceptres and diadems of rainbow
light, and upon their faces infinite wisdom and imperishable youth. In the turmoil and growing
chaos of his dream he heard a voice crying out, "You remember, Con, Con, Conaire Mor, you remember!"
and in an instant he was torn from himself and had grown vaster, and was with the Immortals,
seated upon their thrones, they looking upon him as a brother, and he was flying away with
them into the heart of the gold when he awoke, the spirit of childhood dazzled with the vision
which is too lofty for princes.

1897

DEIRDRE

A LEGEND IN THREE ACTS

Dramatis Personae:

     CONCOBAR...............  Ardrie of Ulla.
     NAISI
     AINLE, ARDAN............ Brothers of Naisi.
     FERGUS
     BUINNE,  ILANN.......... Sons of Fergus
     CATHVAH................. A Druid
     DEIRDRE
     LAVARCAN................ A Druidess
     Herdsman,
     Messenger

ACT I.

SCENE.--The dun of DEIRDRE'S captivity. LAVARCAM, a Druidess, sits before the door in the open
air. DEIRDRE comes out of the dun.

DEIRDRE--Dear fostermother, how the spring is beginning! The music of the Father's harp is
awakening the flowers. Now the winter's sleep is over, and the spring flows from the lips of
the harp. Do you not feel the thrill in the wind--a joy answering the trembling strings? Dear
fostermother, the spring and the music are in my heart!

LAVARCAM--The harp has but three notes; and, after sleep and laughter, the last sound is of
weeping.

DEIRDRE--Why should there be any sorrow while I am with you? I am happy here. Last night in
a dream I saw the blessed Sidhe upon the mountains, and they looked on me with eyes of love.

(An old HERDSMAN enters, who bows before LAVARCAM.)

HERDSMAN--Lady, the High King is coming through the woods.

LAVARCAM--Deirdre, go to the grianan for a little. You shall tell me your dream again, my child.

DEIRDRE--Why am I always hidden from the King's sight.

LAVARCAM--It is the King's will you should see no one except these aged servants.

DEIRDRE--Am I indeed fearful to look upon, foster-mother? I do not think so, or you would not
love me.

LAVARCAM--It is the King's will.

DEIRDRE--Yet why must it be so, fostermother? Why must I hide away? Why must I never leave
the valley?

LAVARCAM--It is the king's will.

While she is speaking CONCOBAR enters. He stands still and looks on DEIRDRE. DEIRDRE gazes
on the KING for a moment, and then covering her face with her hands, she hurries into the dun.
The HERDSMAN goes out. LAVARCAM sees and bows before the KING.

CONCOBAR--Lady, is all well with you and your charge?

LAVARCAM--All is well.

CONCOBAR--Is there peace in Deirdre's heart?

LAVARCAM--She is happy, not knowing a greater happiness than to roam the woods or to dream
of the immortal ones can bring her.

CONCOBAR--Fate has not found her yet hidden in this valley.

LAVARCAM--Her happiness is to be here. But she asks why must she never leave the glen. Her
heart quickens within her. Like a bird she listens to the spring, and soon the valley will
be narrow as a cage.

CONCOBAR--I cannot open the cage. Less ominous the Red Swineherd at a feast than this beautiful
child in Ulla. You know the word of the Druids at her birth.

LAVARCAM--Aye, through her would come the destruction of the Red Branch. But sad is my heart,
thinking of her lonely youth.

CONCOBAR--The gods did not guide us how the ruin might be averted. The Druids would have slain
her, but I set myself against the wise ones, thinking in my heart that the chivalry of the
Red Branch would be already gone if this child were slain. If we are to perish it shall be
nobly, and without any departure from the laws of our order. So I have hidden her away from
men, hoping to stay the coming of fate.

LAVARCAM--King, your mercy will return to you, and if any of the Red Branch fall, you will
not fall.

CONCOBAR--If her thoughts turned only to the Sidhe her heart would grow cold to the light love
that warriors give. The birds of Angus cannot breathe or sing their maddening song in the chill
air that enfolds the wise. For this, Druidess, I made thee her fosterer. Has she learned to
know the beauty of the ever-living ones, after which the earth fades and no voice can call us back?

LAVARCAM--The immortals have appeared to her in vision and looked on her with eyes of love.

CONCOBAR--Her beauty is so great it would madden whole hosts, and turn them from remembrance
of their duty. We must guard well the safety of the Red Branch. Druidess, you have seen with
subtle eyes the shining life beyond this. But through the ancient traditions of Ulla, which
the bards have kept and woven into song, I have seen the shining law enter men's minds, and
subdue the lawless into love of justice. A great tradition is shaping a heroic race; and the
gods who fought at Moytura are descending and dwelling in the heart of the Red Branch. Deeds
will be done in our time as mighty as those wrought by the giants who battled at the dawn;
and through the memory of our days and deeds the gods will build themselves an eternal empire
in the mind of the Gael. Wise woman, guard well this beauty which fills my heart with terror.
I go now, and will doubly warn the spearmen at the passes, but will come hither again and speak
with thee of these things, and with Deirdre I would speak also.

LAVARCAM--King of Ulla, be at peace. It is not I who will break through the design of the gods.
(CONCOBAR goes through the woods, after looking for a time at the door of the dun.) But Deirdre
is also one of the immortals. What the gods desire will utter itself through her heart. I will
seek counsel from the gods.

[DEIRDRE comes slowly through the door.]

DEIRDRE--Is he gone? I fear this stony king with his implacable eyes.

LAVARVAM--He is implacable only in his desire for justice.

DEIRDRE--No! No! There is a hunger in his eyes for I know not what.

LAVARCAM--He is the wisest king who ever sat on the chair of Macha.

DEIRDRE--He has placed a burden on my heart. Oh! fostermother, the harp of life is already
trembling into sorrow!

LAVARCAM--Do not think of him. Tell me your dream, my child.

[DEIRDRE comes from the door of the dun and sits on a deerskin at LAVARCAM's feet.]

DEIRDRE--Tell me, do happy dreams bring happiness, and do our dreams of the Sidhe ever grow
real to us as you are real to me? Do their eyes draw nigh to ours, and can the heart we dream
of ever be a refuge for our hearts.

LAVARCAM--Tell me your dream.

DEIRDRE--Nay; but answer first of all, dear fostermother--you who are wise, and who have talked
with the Sidhe.

LAVARCAM--Would it make you happy to have your dream real, my darling?

DEIRDRE--Oh, it would make me happy!

[She hides her face on LAVARCAM's knees.]

LAVARCAM--If I can make your dream real, I will, my beautiful fawn.

DEIRDRE--Dear fostermother, I think my dream is coming near to me. It is coming to me now.

LAVARCAM--Deirdre, tell me what hope has entered your heart?

DEIRDRE--In the night I saw in a dream the top of the mountain yonder, beyond the woods, and
three hunters stood there in the dawn. The sun sent its breath upon their faces, but there
was a light about them never kindled at the sun. They were surely hunters from some heavenly
field, or the three gods whom Lu condemned to wander in mortal form, and they are come again
to the world to seek some greater treasure.

LAVARCAM--Describe to me these immortal hunters. In Eire we know no gods who take such shape
appearing unto men.

DEIRDRE--I cannot now make clear to thee my remembrance of two of the hunters, but the tallest
of the three--oh, he stood like a flame against the flameless sky, and the whole sapphire of
the heavens seemed to live in his fearless eyes! His hair was darker than the raven's wing,
his face dazzling in its fairness. He pointed with his great flame-bright spear to the valley.
His companions seemed in doubt, and pointed east and west. Then in my dream I came nigh him
and whispered in his ear, and pointed the way through the valley to our dun. I looked into
his eyes, and he started like one who sees a vision; and I know, dear fostermother, he will
come here, and he will love me. Oh, I would die if he did not love me!

