Then I saw that he to whom he spoke did not seem to hear these last words, for the master of
the shop had noticed how he cast his eyes upon the goods that were in the window, and was ready
in a moment to invite him in.  "Come in, come in," he said, "before the crowd sweep you away;
come in and buy my pearls, and my diamonds, and my precious stones; come in, come in."  And
while he halted for a moment to parley with the man, the crowd came upon them, and he was parted
from his friend, who had held up his fainting steps; and so he sprung trembling into the shop,
scarcely thinking himself safe even there.

Now the man into whose house he had turned, though he was a fair-spoken man, and one who knew
well how to seem honest and true, was altogether a deceiver.  All his seeming jewels, and diamonds,
and pearls, were but shining and painted glass, which was worth nothing at all to him who was
so foolish as to buy it: but this the servant knew not.  If it had been in the bright clear
light of the morning, he would easily have seen that the diamonds and the pearls were only
sparkling and painted glass, and the gold nothing but tinsel; but the bright light of the morning
had passed away, and in the red slanting light of the evening sun he could not see clearly;
and so the false man persuaded him, and he parted with all the rich treasures which his king
had given him, and got nothing for them in exchange which was worth the having, for he filled
his bag with bits of painted glass, which his lord would never accept.

However, he knew not how he had been cheated; or if, perhaps, a thought crossed his mind that
all was not right, it was followed by another, which said that it was now too late to alter,
and that if he had chosen wrongly, still he must abide by it; and so he waited for the trumpet.
But he was not altogether happy; and often and often he wished that he had faced the strife
of the multitude, and pressed on with his trusting companion to the market.

A hard struggle had been his before he had reached it.  It seemed indeed at times as if the
words of his fearful companion were coming true, and he would be torn altogether in pieces,
so fiercely did the crowd press upon him and throng him.  But as I watched him in the thickest
part of it, I saw that always, just at his last need, something seemed to favour him, and the
crowd broke off and left room for him to struggle by.  I could hear him chanting, as it were,
to himself, when the crowd looked upon him the most fiercely, "I will not be afraid for ten
thousands of the people that have set themselves against me round about."  And even as he chanted
the words, the crowd divided itself in two parts, like a rushing stream glancing by some black
rock; and on he passed, as though they saw him not.

So it continued, even till he reached the market-place.  Right glad was he to find himself
there: but even now all his trials were not over.  Many of the stalls were empty, and from
many more the fair and true traders were gone away; and instead of them were come false and
deceitful men, who tried to put off any who dealt with them with pretended jewels and bad goods.

Then did he look anxiously round and round the market, fearing every moment lest the trumpet
should sound before he had purchased any thing for his lord.  Never, perhaps, all along the
way, did he so bitterly regret his early sloth as now, for he wrung his hands together, and
said in great bitterness, "What shall I do?" and, "How shall I, a loiterer, traffic for my lord?"

