"Something of the sort, Miss Baring.  Anyway, we can't go on deck."

"But--I insist on being told what is the matter."

The American knew little of ships, but he knew a great deal about mines, and, in a mine, if
an accident happens, the man in charge cannot desert his post to give information to those
who are anxious for it. So he replied laconically:

"Guess the captain will tell us all about it after a while, Miss Baring."

"Que diable!  I feel like the rat in the trap," said Count Edouard, suppressed excitement rendering
his English less fluent.

At another time the phrase would have sent a ripple of amusement through that cheery company.
Now, no one smiled.  They knew too well what he meant to pay heed to the mere form of his words.
No matter how large or sumptuously equipped the trap, the point of view of the rat was new to them.

CHAPTER III

WHEREIN THE CAPTAIN REAPPEARS

The fierce hissing of the continuous escape of steam excited alarm in those not accustomed
to machinery.  Men and women share the unreasoning panic of animals when an unknown force reveals
its pent-up fury.  They forget that safety-valves are provided, that diminished pressure means
less risk; the knowledge that restraint, not freedom, is dangerous comes ever in the guise
of a new discovery.

The mining engineers, of course, did not share this delusion.

"There must be something serious the matter, or they would not be wasting power like that,"
murmured the American to one of his fellow-professionals.

"A smash-up in the engine-room.  Nada es mas seguro," [1] was the answer.

"Wonder if any one is hurt?"

The Spaniard bent a little nearer.  "What can you expect?" he whispered sympathetically.

In the unnatural peacefulness of the ship's progress, disturbed only by the roar of the superheated
vapor, they all heard the opening of a door at the head of the saloon stairway.  The third
officer appeared--his wet oilskins gleaming and dripping.

"Dr. Christobal, the captain wishes to speak to you," he said.

Christobal rose and crossed the saloon.

"As you are here, won't you tell the ladies there is nothing to be afraid of in the mere stopping
of the engines?" he suggested.

"Oh, the ship is right enough," was the hasty response.  "There has been an accident in the
stokehold.  That is all."

"Want any help?" demanded the American.

"Well--I'll ask the captain."

Evidently anxious to avoid further questioning, he ran up the companion.  Christobal followed,
the door was closed and bolted again.

"I hate the word 'accident.'  It covers so many horrid possibilities," said Isobel.

"I am afraid some poor fellows have been injured, and that is why Captain Courtenay sent for
Dr. Christobal," said Elsie.

"Oh, of course, I meant that.  I was not thinking of the mere delay, though it is annoying
that a breakdown should occur here."

"It would be equally bad anywhere else," put in the missionary's wife, timidly.

"By no means," was the sharp response.  "If we were in the Straits, for instance, we could
signal to San Isidro or Sandy Point; and there would be other vessels passing.  Here, we are
in the worst possible place."

Miss Baring's acquaintance with the chief features of the South American coast-line had seemingly
improved.  To all appearance, she alone among the passengers, now that Christobal was gone,
realized vaguely the perilous plight of the Kansas.  The fact was that even a girl of her apparently
frivolous disposition could not avoid the influences of environment.

In a maritime community like that of Valparaiso there was every reason to know and dread the
rock-bound coast which fringed the southern path towards civilization.  Strange, half-forgotten
stories of the terrors which await a disabled ship caught in a southwesterly gale on the Pacific
side of Tierra del Fuego rose dimly in her mind.  And the advancing darkness did not tend towards
cheerfulness.  In her new track, the Kansas had turned her back on the murky light which penetrated
the storm-clouds towards the west.  Unhinged by the external gloom and the prevalent uncertainty,
and finding that no one cared to dispute with her, Isobel felt that a scream or two would be
a relief. For once, pride was helpful--it saved her from hysteria.

The curious sense of waiting, they knew not for what, which dulled the thoughts and stilled
the tongues of the small company at the table, soon communicated itself to the stewards.  The
men stood in little knots, exchanging few words, and those mostly meaningless; but the chief
steward, whose trained ear caught the regular beat of the donkey-engine, woke them up with
a series of sharp orders.

"Switch on the lights," he said loudly.  "Clear the table and hurry up with the coffee.  Get
a move on those fellows, Gomez.  Have you never before been in a ship when the screw stopped?"

The Gomez thus appealed to was the Englishman's second-in-command; he acted as interpreter
when anything out of the common was required.  He muttered a few words in the Hispano-Indian
patois which his hearers best understood, and the scene in the saloon changed with wondrous
suddenness.  The glow of the electric lamps banished the gathering shadows.  The luxurious
comfort of the apartment soon dispelled the notion of danger.  Coffee was brought.  The smoking
saloon was inaccessible, owing to the closing of the gangway, but the chief steward suggested
that the gentlemen might smoke if the ladies were agreeable.  Under such circumstances the
ladies always are agreeable, and the instant result was a distinct rise in the social barometer.

The noise of the steam exhaust ceased as abruptly as it began.  The ship was riding easily
in spite of the heavy sea.  Drifting with wind and wave is a simple thing for a big vessel.
There is no struggle, no tearing asunder of resisting forces.  Thus might a boat caught in
the pitiless current of Niagara glide towards the brink of the cataract with cunning smoothness.

And then, while the occupants of the saloon were endeavoring to persuade each other that all
was well, the loud wail of the siren thrilled them with increased foreboding.  It was not the
warning note of a fog, nor the sharp course-signal for the guidance of a passing ship, but
a sustained trumpeting, which announced to any steamer hidden in the darkening waste of waters
that the Kansas was not under control.  It was a wild, sinister appeal for help, the voice
of the disabled vessel proclaiming her need; and the answer seemed to come in a fiercer shriek
of the gale, while the added fury of the blast brought a curling sea over the poop.  The Kansas
staggered and shook herself clear.  The wave smashed its way onward; several iron stanchions
snapped with reports like pistol-shots, and there was an intolerable rending of woodwork. 
But, whatever the damage, the powerful hull rose triumphantly from the clutch of its assailant.
Shattered streams of water poured off the decks like so many cascades.  Loud above the splash
of these miniature cataracts vibrated the tense boom of the fog-horn.

It was a nerve-racking moment.  It demanded the leadership of a strong man, and there are few
gatherings in Anglo-Saxondom which cannot produce a Caesar when required.

"Say," shouted the American, his clear voice dominating the turmoil, "that gave us a shower-bath.
If we could just stand outside and see ourselves, we should look like an illuminated fountain."

That was the right note--belief in the ship, contempt of the darkness and the gale.  The crisis
passed.

"There really cannot be a heavy sea," said Elsie, cheerfully inaccurate.  "Otherwise we should
be pitching or rolling, perhaps both, whereas we are actually far more steady than when dinner
commenced."

"I find these lulls in the storm most trying," complained Isobel. "They remind me of some wild
animal hunting its prey, creeping up with silent stealth, and then springing."

"I have never before heard a fog-horn sounded so continuously," said the missionary's wife,
a Mrs. Somerville.  "Don't you think they are whistling for assistance?"

"Assistance!  What sort of assistance can anybody give us here?  Unless the ship rights herself
very soon we don't know what may happen."

Isobel seemed to have a premonition of evil, and she paid no heed to the effect her words might
have on the others.  Although the saloon was warm--almost uncomfortably hot owing to the closing
of the main air-passages--she shivered.

Mr. Somerville drew a book from his pocket.  "If that be so," he said gently, "may I suggest
that we seek aid from One who is all-powerful? We are few, and of different religions, but
in this hour we can surely worship at a common altar."

"Right!" said the taciturn Englishman, varying his adjective for once. The missionary offered
up a short but heartfelt prayer, and, finding that he carried his congregation with him, read
the opening verse of Hymn No. 370, "For those at Sea."

The stewards, most of whom understood a few words of English, readily grasped the fact that
the padri was asking for help in a situation which they well knew to be desperate.  They drew
near reverently, and even joined in the simple lines:

  O hear us when we cry to Thee
  For those in peril on the sea.

During the brief silence which followed the singing of the hymn it did, indeed, seem to their
strained senses that the fierce violence of the gale had somewhat abated.  It was not so, in
reality.  A steady fall in the barometer foretold even worse weather to come.  Courtenay, assured
now that the main engines were absolutely useless, thought it advisable to get steering way
on the ship by rigging the foresail, double-reefed and trapped.  The result was quickly perceptible.
The Kansas might not be pooped again, but she would travel more rapidly into the unknown.

Yet this only afforded another instance of the way men reason when they seek to explain cause
from effect.  The hoisting of that strip of stout canvas was one of the time-factors in the
story of an eventful night, for it was with gray-faced despair that the captain gave the requisite
order when the second engineer reported that his senior was dead, the crown of two furnaces
destroyed, and the engines clogged, if not irretrievably damaged, by fallen debris.  None realized
better than the young commander what a disastrous fate awaited his ship in the gloom of the
flying scud ahead.  There was a faint chance of encountering another steamship which would
respond to his signals.  Then he would risk all by laying the Kansas broadside on in the effort
to take a tow-rope aboard.  Meanwhile, it was best to bring her under some sort of control,
the steam steering-gear, driven by the uninjured donkey-engine, being yet available.

In the saloon, Elsie had shielded her face in her hands, to hide the tears which the entreaty
of the hymn had brought to her eyes.  Some one whispered to her:

"Won't you sing something, Miss Maxwell?"

It was the American.  He judged that the sweet voice which unconsciously led the singing of
the hymn must be skilled in other music.

She looked up at him, her eyes shining.

"Sing!  Do you think it possible?" she asked.

"Yes.  You can do a brave thing, I guess, and that would be brave."

"I will try," she said, and she walked to the piano which was screwed athwart the deck in front
of the polished mahogany sheath of the steel mainmast.  It was in her mind to play some lively
excerpts from the light operas then in vogue, but the secret influences of the hour were stronger
than her studied intent, and, when her fingers touched the keys, they wandered, almost without
volition, into the subtle harmonies of Gounod's "Ave Maria."  She played the air first; then,
gaining confidence, she sang the words, using a Spanish version which had caught her fancy.
It was good to see the flashing eyes and impassioned gestures of the Chilean stewards when
they found that she was singing in their own language.  These men, owing to their acquaintance
with the sea and knowledge of the coast, were now in a state of panic; they would have burst
the bonds of discipline on the least pretext.  So, as it chanced, the voice of the English
señorita reached them as the message of an angel, and the spell she cast over them did not
lose its potency during some hours of dangerous toil.  Here, again, was found one of the comparatively
trivial incidents which contributed materially to the working out of a strange drama, because
anything in the nature of a mutinous orgy breaking out in the first part of that soul-destroying
night must have instantly converted the ship into a blood-bespattered Inferno.

Excited applause rewarded the song.  Fired by example, the dapper French Count approached the
piano and asked Elsie if she could play Beranger's "Roi d'Yvetot."

The Frenchman took the merry monarch seriously, but the lilting melody pleased everybody except
"Mr. Wood."  The "Oh, Oh's" and "Ah, Ah's" of the chorus apparently stirred him to speech.
He strolled from a corner of the saloon to the side of Gray, the American engineer, and said,
with a contemptuous nod towards the singer:

"What rot!"

"Not a bit of it.  He's all right.  Won't you give us a song next?"

If Gray showed the face of a sphinx, so did "Mr. Wood," whose real name was Tollemache.  He
bent a little nearer.

"Seen the rockets?" he asked.

"No.  Are we signaling?"

"Every minute.  Have counted fifteen."

"You don't say.  Things are in a pretty bad shape, then?"

"Rotten."

"Well, like Brer Rabbit, we must lie low and say nothing."

This opinion was incontrovertible.  Moreover, Tollemache was not one who needed urging to keep
his mouth shut.  Indeed, this was by far the longest conversation he had indulged in since
he came aboard; nor was he finished with it.

"Ship will strike soon," he said.

Gray turned on him sharply.  "Oh, nonsense!" he exclaimed.  "What has put that absurd notion
into your head?"

"Know this coast."

"But we are far out at sea."

"Fifty miles from danger line, two hours ago.  Thirty now."

"Are you sure?"

"Certain."

"Do you mean to tell me that in three hours, or less, the ship may be a wreck?"

"Will be," said Tollemache.  "Have a cigar," and he passed a well-filled case to his companion.

The American was beginning to take the silent one's measure.  He bit off the end of a cigar
and lit it.

"What's at the back of your head?" he asked coolly.  The other looked towards the Chileans.

"Those chaps are rotters," he said.

"You think they will cut up rough?  What can they do?  We must all sink or swim together."

"Yes; but there are the women, you know.  They must be looked after. You can count on me. 
Tell the chief steward--and the padri."

Gray felt that here was a man after his own heart, the native-born American having a rough-and-ready
way of classifying nationalities when the last test of manhood is applied by a shipwreck, or
a fire.

"Got a gun?" he inquired.

"Cabin.  Goin' for it first opportunity."

"Same here.  But the captain will give us some sort of warning?"

"Perhaps not.  Die quick, die happy."

Then Gray smiled, and he could not help saying: "Tell you what, cousin, if you shoot as straight
as you talk, these stewards will come to heel, no matter what happens."

"Fair shot," admitted Tollemache, and he stalked off to his stateroom, while the Count was
vociferating, for the last time:

  Quel bon p'tit roi c'était la!
          La, la!

Between Elsie and de Poincilit the chorus made quite a respectable din. Few noticed that the
saloon main companion had been opened again, until the sharp bark of a dog joining in the hand-clapping
turned every eye towards the stairway.  Captain Courtenay was descending.  In front ran Joey,
who, of course, imagined that the plaudits of the audience demanded recognition.  Courtenay
had removed his oilskins before leaving the bridge.  His dark blue uniform was flecked with
white foam, and a sou'wester was tied under his chin, otherwise his appearance gave little
sign of the wild tumult without.  Joey, on the other hand, was a very wet dog, and inclined
to be snappy.  When, in obedience to a stern command, he ceased barking, he shook himself violently,
and sent a shower of spray over the carpet.  Then he cocked an eye at the chief steward, who
represented bones and such-like dainties.

Courtenay, removing his glistening head-gear, advanced a couple of paces into the saloon. 
He seemed to avoid looking at any individual, but took in all present in a comprehensive glance.
Elsie, who had exchanged very few words with him since the first afternoon she came on board,
thought he looked worn and haggard, but his speech soon revealed good cause for any lack of
sprightliness.

"I regret to have to inform you," he said, with the measured deliberation of a man who has
made up his mind exactly what to say, "that the ship has been disabled by some accident, the
cause of which is unknown at present.  The unfortunate result is that she is in a position
of some peril."

There was a sudden stir among the Chilean stewards, whose wits were sharpened sufficiently
to render the captain's statement quite clear to them.  Isobel uttered a little sob of terror,
and Mrs. Somerville gasped audibly, "Oh, my poor children!"  Elsie, her lips parted, sat forward
on the piano-stool.  Her senses seemed to have become intensified all at once.  She could see
everything, hear everything. Some of the Chileans and Spaniards crossed themselves; others
swore. Count Edouard breathed hard and muttered "Grand Dieu!"  She wondered why the captain
and Mr. Tollemache, who had returned from his stateroom, and was standing in the half light
of a doorway, should simultaneously drop their right hands into a coat pocket.  Mr. Tollemache,
too, gave a queer little nod to the American, who had moved near to Isobel and placed a hand
on her shoulder.  Elsie was quite sure that Gray whispered: "For goodness' sake, don't cause
a scene!"  And, indeed, he did ask Isobel and Mrs. Somerville, with some curtness, to restrain
themselves.

Courtenay, with one cold glance, chilled into silence the muttered prayers and curses of the
Chileans.

"It may be necessary, about daybreak, to endeavor to beach the ship," he continued.  "I wish
you all, therefore, to guard against possible exposure by wearing warm clothes, especially
furs and overcoats.  Money and jewelry should be secured, but no baggage of any sort, not even
the smallest handbag, can be carried, as all other personal belongings must be left on board.
Passengers will gather here, and remain here until I send one of the officers for them.  The
companion doors will not be closed again, but the decks are quite impassable.  You hear for
yourselves that they are momentarily swept by heavy seas."

He turned to the chief steward.

"Your men, Mr. Malcolm," he said, "will begin at once, under your directions, to draw stores
for each boat.  There need be no hurry or excitement.  We are, as yet, many miles distant from
the nearest known land.  If the wind changes, or one of several possible things happens, the
Kansas will suffer no damage whatever.  I wish all hands to be prepared, however, for the chance,
the remote chance, I trust, of the ship's being driven ashore, and I beg each one of you to
remember that discipline and strict obedience to orders are not only more necessary now than
ever, but also that they will be strictly enforced."

The concluding sentence was uttered very slowly and clearly.  It was evident he meant the ship's
company to understand him.  Before any of his hearers attempted to question him, he jammed
the sou'wester on his head and ran up the stairs.  The dog followed, somewhat ruefully, the
cozy saloon being far more to his liking than the wind-swept, spray-lashed chart-house.  Mr.
Malcolm promptly stirred his myrmidons with a command to fall in by boats' crews, and Gomez
won his chief's approval by quietly translating the captain's orders.  Beyond Mrs. Somerville's
subdued sobbing there was little outward manifestation that another crisis in the history of
the Kansas and her human freight had come and gone.

"The skipper did turn up, you see," said the American, when Tollemache came to him.  The silent
man screwed his lips together as if he would put a padlock on them.

"From your knowledge of the coast, do you think he will be able to beach the ship?" went on
Gray, some humorous imp prompting him, even in that tense moment, to draw the expected answer
from his new friend and ally.

"Yes, in pieces," said Tollemache, and the reply was neither humorous nor expected.

[1] Nothing is more certain.

CHAPTER IV

ELSIE GOES ON DECK

As a little yeast leavens much flour so does the presence of a few stout-hearted men give strength
and courage to a multitude.  Although the rumor soon went the rounds that the giant wave which
pooped the ship had carried away two of her six boats, there were no visible signs of flurry
in the measures taken to equip the remaining boats for use. The men had confidence in their
officers; every one worked smoothly and well.

All told, there were eighty persons on board when the Kansas left Valparaiso.  Of these, seventeen,
including the officers, were of European birth or lineage.  The remaining sixty-three were
men of mixed nationalities, ranging from Spanish-speaking Chileans to negroes. There were eight
under-stewards, a cook and his assistants, and nearly fifty sailors and firemen.  Unfortunately,
the explosion in the stokehold had killed the chief engineer and one of his juniors, while
six stokers were dead and several injured.

It was discovered that, before he died, the chief had shut off steam, and thus prevented the
accident from assuming far more serious proportions.  The second engineer, a Newcastle man
named Walker, who rushed to the engine-room at the first indication of a mishap, found his
chief lying in collapse on the lever platform.  Walker promptly opened certain levers which
allowed the steam to escape freely; then he carried his comrade out of the spume to the deck.
It was too late. Partial suffocation had placed too great a strain on a diseased heart; by
the time Dr. Christobal was summoned, a brave man was dead.

Courtenay, who had left instructions that he was to be called when the Evangelistas light was
sighted, was sound asleep.  In the elevated quarters assigned to the captain, the noise of
the explosion differed little from the thunderous blows of the sea.  But the stopping of the
engines awoke him instantly.  He felt the ship lurch away from her course, and saw the quick
swerve of the compass indicator over his head.  As he ran down the gangway leading from the
bridge he heard the officer of the watch say:

"Something given way in the engine-room, sir."

Several minutes elapsed before he, or Walker, aided by willing volunteers, could penetrate
the depths of the stoke-hold.  The place was a charnel-house, a stifling pit, filled with the
charred contents of the furnaces, which gave off the most noisome fumes owing to the rapid
condensation of steam and water escaping from the damaged pipes. But the gale raging without
served one good purpose in driving plenty of air down the ventilating cowls.  Gradually, the
choking atmosphere cleared.  Courtenay was the first to reach the lowermost rung of the iron
ladder, whence he looked with the eyes of despair on a scene of death and ruin.

The electric light was uninjured.  It revealed the bodies of several men, either dead or insensible,
lying amidst the scattered coal. Shovels, stoking-rods, and pieces of iron plate had been hurled
about in wild confusion.  The door of one furnace was blown clean out of its bolts; furnace
bars and fire-bricks strewed the iron deck, while, each time the ship rolled, the heavy clank
of loose metal somewhere in the engine-room proved that the damage was not confined solely
to the stoke-hold.

If Courtenay could have dropped quietly into the sea through the stout hull of the Kansas he
would have welcomed the certain result in that bitter moment.  But he was the captain, and
men would look to him for salvation.  Well, he would do all that was possible, and, at any
rate, die at his post.  So, choking back his misery, he organized the work of rescue.  Slings
were formed of ropes, and those men in whom any signs of life were visible were the first to
be lifted to the upper deck. The stoke-hold was quickly emptied of its inanimate occupants;
living and dead alike were carried to the untenanted second-class saloon forward.  Then Courtenay
left Walker to solve the puzzle of the accident and report on its extent, while he climbed
back to the bridge, there to tackle the far more pressing problem of the measures to be adopted
if he would save his ship.

It was typical of the man that his first act was to wipe the grime of the stoke-hold off his
face and hands.  Then he drew a chart from the locker in which he had placed it two hours earlier.
Mr. Boyle, who had been attending to the signals both by siren and rocket, joined him. Courtenay
pointed to a pin-mark in the sheet.

"We were there at six o'clock," he said, and his voice was so steady that he seemed now to
be free from the least touch of anxiety.  "The course was South-40-East, and, against this
wind and sea, together with a strong current to the nor'east, we would make eight knots under
easy steam.  Therefore, by eight o'clock, when the furnaces blew out, we were here."

He jabbed in a pin a little further down the chart.  Mr. Boyle, whose peculiar gifts in the
way of speech were accurately described by Dr. Christobal, grunted agreement.

"Huh," he said.

Courtenay glanced at a chronometer.

"It is now a quarter to nine," he went on, "and I reckon that since the ship swung round we
have been carried at least six knots to the nor'east."

"Huh," growled Mr. Boyle again, but he bent a trifle nearer the chart. To his sailor's eyes
the situation was quite simple.  Unless, by God's providence, some miracle happened, the Kansas
was a doomed ship.  The pin stuck where the Admiralty chart recorded soundings of one hundred
fathoms with a fine sand bed.  The longitude was 75-50 west of Greenwich and latitude 51-35
south.  Staring at them from the otherwise blank space which showed the wide expanse of the
Pacific was an ominous note by the compilers of the chart:

"Seamen are cautioned not to make free with these shores, as they are very imperfectly known,
and, from their wild, desolate character, they cannot be approached with safety."

Right in the track of the drifting ship lay a vaguely outlined trio of dread import: "Breakers;
Islet (conical); Duncan Rock."  Behind this sinister barrier stood the more definite White
Horse Island, while, running due north and south a few miles away to the eastward, was a wavering
dotted line which professed to mark the coast of Hanover Island.  Lending a fearful significance
to the unknown character of the region, a printed comment followed the dotted line: "This coast
is laid down from distant observations on board the Beagle."  So the sea face of Hanover Island
had not been visited by civilized man for nearly sixty years!  There, not three hours' steaming
distance from the regular track of Chilean commerce, was a place so guarded by reefs on one
hand, and impenetrable, ice-capped mountains on the other, that a proper survey was deemed
impracticable even by officers of the British Navy, a service which has charted nearly every
rock and shoal and tiny islet on the face of the waters.

Neither man spoke while their practised scrutiny took in these details. The roaring chaos of
the gale told what fate awaited them.  The elemental forces had donned the black cap of the
judge and sentenced them to speedy destruction.

Mr. Boyle pursed his lips; he looked sideways at Courtenay.

"Huh," he said.  "What's to be done?"

"I propose," answered the captain, coolly, "to endeavor--"

It was then that the giant wave leaped madly over the poop, as though the sea were resolved
to swallow its prey without further warning.  The second officer, outside on the bridge, had
to cling to a stanchion for his life.  Courtenay and Boyle saw two boats wrenched from their
davits and carried overboard, while a bulkhead forward was smashed into matchwood.  The half-caste
quarter-master at the wheel muttered "Madonna!" and tried to remember a prayer.

"I propose," continued Courtenay, raising his voice so that the other might hear, "to give
the ship steering-way by hoisting the foresail. Will you see to it?  Then I intend to warn
the passengers, and make such preparations as are possible before we strike."

"Huh," agreed Mr. Boyle.  He took the short cut over the rails.  In a few seconds the captain
heard a flow of ornate Spanish, and he knew that Mr. Boyle was getting the scared Chileans to work.

Then Courtenay went to his own cabin, in which, in the haste of his exit, he had imprisoned
Joey.  The dog received him with delight, for Joey knew a real gale from a sham one, as well
as any man before the mast.  Courtenay patted his head, opened a drawer in the writing-table,
and drew forth two photographs, which he kissed.  He replaced them, locked the drawer, and
went out, letting the dog come with him.  That was his farewell to his mother and sister; it
was the first and last sign of sentiment he exhibited during that night of great endurance.

When he returned from the saloon, he found the chief officer examining the chart.

"Do you think we have any chance of making Concepcion Strait?" he asked, pointing to the doubtfully
marked channel which separates Hanover and Duke of York Islands.

"If we set the mains'le we might bear up a bit."

"Try it."

"Huh," said Mr. Boyle, and he was off again into the spindrift.

Be it understood that the sails carried by a big vessel like the Kansas are of little practical
value save under certain conditions of wind and sea, when they are rigged to steady her, and
thus give help to helm and propeller.  Still, they might serve now to carry the ship a point
or two towards the north, and this was the sole avenue of escape which remained.  Here, again,
was one of those trivial circumstances which are so potent in the shaping of events.  Had either
of the sails blown out, or had the mainsail been set at the same time as the foresail, the
course followed during the next few hours must have been deviated from to some extent, and
the alteration of a cable's length in direction could not fail to exercise the most momentous
result on the fortunes of the Kansas.  But ships are singularly akin to men in respect to the
apparent vagaries of fate.  A moment's hesitation, a mere pace to right or left, may mean all
the difference between success and failure, safety and danger.

Leaving the chart on the table, where it was secured by drawing-pins, Courtenay went back to
his cabin to obtain a pair of sea-boots.  Seeing Joey sitting on his tail and shivering, unable
to indulge in a comfortable lick because the taste of salt water was hateful, he hunted for
a padded mackintosh coat which he had procured for the dog's protection in cold latitudes.
He ransacked two lockers before he found it.  Several articles were tumbled in a heap on the
floor in his haste, and he did not trouble to pack them away again.  He buckled Joey into the
garment, fastened his own oilskins, and rejoined the second officer on the bridge.  A glance
showed him the dark wall of the mainsail rising abaft the after funnel.  The quarter-master
at the wheel, having recovered his wits, was keeping the ship's nose up to the wind by a steady
pressure to port.  The gale was as fierce as ever.  The second officer shouted in Courtenay's ear:

"I am afraid, sir, the wind has shifted a point."

Courtenay looked at the compass.  The ship was bearing exactly northeast.  He had hoped that
the sails would enable her to shape due north, at least; unquestionably some spiteful fiend
was urging her headlong to ruin.  Had the wind but veered as much to the south, he might have
chanced the run through Concepcion Strait, or even weathered Duke of York Island.  He nodded
to his junior, whose presence on the bridge was a mere matter of form, owing to the powerless
condition of the ship and the impenetrable wrack of foam and mist that barred vision ahead,
and strode off on a tour of inspection.  As wind and sea were now beating more directly on
the port side, there was some degree of shelter along the covered-in deck to starboard.  He
found that two boats had been cleared of their hamper and lowered on the davits until they
could be swung in on the promenade deck.  The men were thus able to provision them more easily
than in their exposed berths on the spar deck.  He watched the workers for a few minutes, showed
them how to stow and lash some biscuit tins more securely, and continued his survey, meaning
to look in on Walker and the doctor.

He had to pass the cabins set apart for the two girls.  The ports were lighted, and through
one window he could see some one peering out at him.  Owing to the thickness of the glass and
its blurred condition, he could not tell whether the occupant was Elsie or Isobel, or Isobel's
maid, but, whoever it was, a hand seemed to signal to him to open the door.

He unfastened the bolts, and held a half door slightly ajar.  Joey, ever eager to be out of
the pelting storm, hopped inside, and Courtenay heard Elsie exclaim:

"Good gracious, Joey!  Where is your life-belt?"

"Do you want anything?" asked Courtenay, through the chink.

Elsie smiled at him.  She was wrapped in a heavy ulster, and had a Tam o' Shanter tied firmly
on her head by a stout veil.

"Mr. Malcolm thought we had better bring life-belts from our cabins.  I came for mine, and
I looked out and saw you.  I wanted to ask you what had become of Dr. Christobal.  I hope you
don't mind?"

"Not in the least.  I am just going to him.  Would you care to come?"

"Oh, I shall be most pleased."

"He is attending the injured men, you know.  And there are--others there, who are beyond his help."

"Perhaps I may be of some assistance."

"Come, then.  When I open the door, step out quickly and hold tight to that rail.  And don't
move until I tell you."

His manner was curt enough to please the superioress of a nunnery. Elsie was awed instantly
by the glimpse she obtained of the flying scud within the narrow area of the saloon lights,
but she obeyed directions, and presently found herself clinging desperately to the brass hand-rail
which ran, breast high, along the outer wall of her cabin.  She saw Courtenay kneel to fasten
a bolt, and she wondered how a man encumbered with heavy boots could be so active.  Then she
felt an arm grip her tightly round the waist, and she heard a voice, which sounded as if it
had traveled down a long corridor, shouting in her ear:

"Lean well back and trust to me.  Let go!"

She had no idea that wind could blow like that, especially when the ship was going in the same
direction.  It shrieked and whistled and tore at the canvas side-awnings with a vehemence that
threatened to rip them from their stays.  Courtenay held her glued to his left side, and there
was something reassuring in his vice-like grasp.  She had a dim notion that he need not squeeze
her quite so earnestly, until she passed a gangway which led to the port side, between the
deck cabins and the music-room.  Then she changed her opinion; were it not for the strong arm
which held her she would have been blown into the sea.

To reach the forward saloon they had to pass the boats near which Courtenay had halted.  The
sailors saw them.  During the first lull one of the men said:

"The señor captain is escorting one of the English señoritas from the saloon."

"Where is he taking her to?" asked another.

"Who knows?"

"It will be all the same wherever she is.  If the ship goes, we go."

"Who can tell?  These English are stupid.  They always try to save women first.  Once, when
I was on the--"

A few words in Spanish reached them from Mr. Boyle, and they went on with their work.  But
such muttered confidences are eloquent of mischief when the pinch comes.

At the forward end of the promenade deck, just beneath the bridge, Elsie received another reminder
of the force of the wind, which was rendered almost intolerable by the lashing of the spray.

"I--can't--go on," she gasped.  Courtenay felt, rather than heard, that she was speaking to
him.  Without further ado, he picked her up in his arms, and deposited her, all flushed and
breathless, in the shelter of the fore saloon hatch.  If she were so anxious to see her friend
the doctor, he was determined she should not be disappointed.

"No time for explanations," he said, while she tremblingly clutched at a rail which gave support
down the companion-way.  "Dr. Christobal is below.  But--I fear you will find a shocking scene.
Perhaps you had better let me take you back."

"No, no, not on my account.  I think I am past feeling any sentiment. I would far rather do
something, be of some use, however slight."

A pungent smell of iodoform came to them up the hatchway.  Joey, who had followed bravely in
their wake, and was now a few steps down the stairs, crept back, awed.

"At least, let me ask Dr. Christobal if you may come.  You will be quite safe here if you grip
the rail.  Even if a sea breaks over the hatch it cannot touch you.  May I leave you?  And
do you mind holding Joey?"

Elsie detected a return to his earlier manner, and she was grateful to him for it.  She did
not like him so well when he was stern and curt.

"Yes," she said.  "That is only reasonable; but please tell him I shall not be in the way,
I know that there are wounded men to be attended, and dead men down there, too.  I shall not
scream or faint, believe me."

"I am sure of that.  Not one woman in a thousand could have played and sung to cheer others,
as you did after the accident happened."

It might have been the reaction from her exciting passage along the deck, but Elsie experienced
a sudden warm glow in her face.  Somehow, it was delightful to hear those words from such a
man in the hour of his supremest trial.  For she realized what it meant to him, even though
his life were saved, if the Kansas became a wreck.

She stooped, ostensibly to grasp the dog's collar.

"Before you leave me," she said, "let me tell you how sorry I am for you."

He ran down the stairs, and entered the small saloon, which had been hastily converted into
a hospital.  Perhaps it would be better described as a mortuary, for it held more dead than
living. Christobal, aided by two sailors, was wrapping lint round a fireman's seared arm. 
Happily, there was an abundance of cotton sheets available, and the men tore them into strips.
But the comparatively small supply of cotton wool carried in the ship's stores, and in the
doctor's private medicine chest had long since given out.

"Miss Maxwell is here.  She asked me to bring her to you in case she might be able to render
you some assistance," explained Courtenay.

Christobal drew himself upright, with the slowness of an elderly man whose joints are stiffening.

"Miss Maxwell here?" he repeated, obviously surprised, if not displeased.  He waved a hand
towards the men laid on mattresses on the deck.  Most were quite motionless; others writhed
in agony.  "She cannot come--it is impossible."

"It is her wish."

"Quite impossible.  Where is she?"

"Standing in the companion."

Courtenay saw that the girl could do no good now in that chamber of death; the mere memory
of it would be an abiding horror.  He wanted Christobal himself to send her away, but the doctor
had taken off his coat and bared his arms.  His appearance was grimly business-like.

"Will you tell her how much I am obliged to her for her kind thought. But you see--it cannot
be permitted.  Please say that I hope to join her in the saloon in a quarter of an hour.  My
work is nearly ended.  I am sure you will make her understand that this is not a place for
a woman."

Again he swept the row of silent bodies with a comprehensive hand.  Yet the trivial thought
intruded itself on the sailor that this elegant old Spaniard delegated the task of explanation
to him solely because he did not wish to appear before Miss Maxwell in a somewhat disheveled
state. He dismissed the notion at once.

"How many?" he asked, glancing at the quiet forms which bore no bandages.

"Eleven, now.  By the way, just one word.  What chance have we?" Christobal put the concluding
sentence in French.

Courtenay answered in the same language: "A very poor one.  But I shall come to the saloon
and warn you.  That will be only fair, don't you think?"

"Most certainly.  Well--I may as well finish here."  And the doctor signed to his helpers to
lift the next sufferer on to the table.

Courtenay returned to the stairway.  At the top stood Elsie, looking eagerly for his reappearance.
A sense of unutterable anguish shook him for a second as he saw the sweet face, instinct with
life and beauty, gazing down at him.  How monstrous it was to think of such a fair woman being
battered out of recognition against the rocks.  He bit his lip savagely, and it is to be feared
the words he swallowed were not those of supplication.  But his eyes were calm and his voice
well under control when he said:

"Dr. Christobal is captain below there, Miss Maxwell, and he absolutely vetoes your presence.
He was exceedingly distressed at being compelled to send you such a message.  However, he will
soon explain matters to you in person, as he is coming aft almost at once."

Elsie was disappointed.  She dreaded the return to the saloon, with its queerly assorted company.
When she quitted them, they were in a state of indescribable distress.  Gray and the Englishman
were helping the chief steward to adjust life-belts; but Isobel was in a frenzy of despair,
her maid had fainted, de Poincilit and the Spaniards were muttering alternate appeals to the
saints and oaths of utter abandonment, and Mrs. Somerville was almost unconscious, while her
husband knelt by her side and wrung his hands in abject misery. Anything was better than to
go back to that woful assembly, yet she choked down a protest and said quietly:

"I am ready.  I am afraid I have been a bother to you, Captain Courtenay."

"Say, rather, you have given me hope.  I think Heaven has work for you to do in the world.
Let me go out first.  Never mind Joey.  He can struggle along behind.  Steady now.  Head down
and lean well against the wind."

Elsie found, to her amazement, that there was less sense of danger in facing the wind than
in being driven along before it.  Moreover, she had greater confidence during this second transit
over the exposed portion of the deck.  She felt Courtenay dragging her on irresistibly until
they gained the lee of the smoking-room.  He let her rest there, beneath the ladder leading
to the bridge.  Then a strange revulsion of feeling came to him.  He experienced an overwhelming
desire not to be parted from her; he had a sickening fear that he might never see her again;
so he shouted, very close to her cheek:

"Would you like to sit in my cabin a little while, if I bring Miss Baring?"

She thought that would be splendid.  Courtenay, if any one, would succeed in calming Isobel.
In order to make herself heard she, in turn, had to put her lips quite near to Courtenay's face.

"Yes," she cried, "I shall be only too pleased.  But be patient with her; she is very frightened."

There is no accounting for the workings of a man's mind.  Courtenay, at no time a lady's man,
most certainly had other matters to attend to just then.  Yet here he was thinking only of
a woman's comfort.  His dismal forebodings were banished by a rush of absurd delight at the
thought that he would have an opportunity of speaking to her occasionally.  What a brave girl
she was!  What a wife for a sailor! In truth, these were mad notions that jostled in his brain
when his life and her's were not worth an hour's purchase.  He drew her to the foot of the ladder.

"Run ahead, Joey!" he cried.  The dog, a weird little figure leaning forward at a ridiculous
angle against the tearing wind, obeyed instantly.  "Now, you," he said to Elsie, "but wait
until I pass you at the top."

Though her skirts were troublesome, she managed the ascent.  Then she was taken off her feet
again, and hardly knew where she was until she found herself in the haven of Courtenay's cabin.
Joey was glad to be there, too.  He shook himself noisily in his heavy coat.

"You won't mind if I fasten the door on you?" and the captain so far forgot his anxiety as
to smile.

"No, indeed," and she smiled in response.

"Very well.  I shall bring Miss Baring in about five minutes.  You won't stir till we come?"

"What?  Face that gale without you?"  She almost laughed at the idea. He bolted the door, and
he ran into the chart-house to tap the barometer.  It moved appreciably.  It was rising!  Ah,
if only the wind moderated, he could save the Kansas yet!  He glanced at the compass. Still
the same course.  Not a fraction of a point gained to the north. That was bad.  The ship was
already within the danger zone.  Pray Heaven for a falling wind, or even a change to the southward!
Still, it was in an altogether more cheerful mood that he regained the promenade deck and made
his way towards the saloon.

He was in the very act of entering the doorway when a shudder ran through the ship, and she
lifted slightly.  Clinging to a rail, he waited, rigid as a statue.  A second time the great
steel hull shook, but much more violently.  Then the Kansas ran her nose into a shoal, swung
round broadside to the sea, lifted again, struck heavily, and listed to port.

Courtenay was on the starboard side.  He heard a yell of dismay from the men attending to the
boats.  Screams came from the saloon.  The sea leaped triumphantly over the rails and nearly
smothered him with its dense spray.  So this was the end?  It had come all too soon.  And what
a place for the ship to be cast away!  Twenty miles from the nearest land, in the midst of
a sea where no boat could live.  God help them all!

CHAPTER V

THE KANSAS SUSTAINS A CHECK--

Once, in early days, when Courtenay was a middy an a destroyer, his ship ran ashore on the
Manacles.  After a bump or two, and a noise like the snapping of trees during a hurricane,
the little vessel broke her back, and the after part, with the engines, fell away into deep
water. Courtenay happened to be on the bridge; the forward half held intact, so he and the
other survivors clambered ashore at low water.

He waited now for the rending of plates, the tearing asunder of stanch steel ribs and cross-beams,
which should sound the knell of the ship's last moments.  But the Kansas seemed to be in no
hurry to fall in pieces.  She strained and groaned, and shook violently when a wave pounded
her; otherwise, she lay there like a beaten thing, oddly resembling the living but almost unconscious
men stretched on the mattresses in the forward saloon.

Courtenay did not experience the least fear of death.  Emotion of any sort was already dead
in him.  He found himself wondering if an unexpectedly strong current, setting to the southeast,
had not upset his reckoning--if there were any broken limbs among the occupants of the saloon--if
Elsie had been injured by being thrown down into his cabin.  He looked at his watch; it was
past eleven.  In four hours there would be dawn.  Dawn!  In as many minutes he might see the
day that is everlasting. . . .  Ah!  Perhaps not even four minutes!  The Kansas, with a shiver,
lifted to the embrace of a heavy sea, lurched to port, and settled herself more comfortably.
The deck assumed an easier angle.  Now it was possible to walk.  There were no rocks here,
at any rate.  Courtenay at once jumped to the conclusion that the powerful current whose existence
he suspected had cut out for itself a deep-water channel towards the land, and the ship had
struck on the silt of its back-wash.  Anyhow, the Kansas was still living.  The lights were
all burning steadily.  He could detect the rhythmic throb of the donkey-engine.  He felt it
like the faint beat of a pulse.  In her new position the ship presented less of a solid wall
to the onslaught of the sea.  The tumultuous waves began to race past without breaking so fiercely.
Had she started her plates?  Were the holds and engine-room full of water?  If so, Walker and
his helpers were already drowning beneath his feet.  And, when next she moved, the vessel might
slip away into the depths!

These and kindred thoughts, thoughts without sequence and almost without number, flew through
his mind with incredible speed.  They were lucid and reasoned, their pros and cons equally
dealt with--he could have answered any question on each point were it propounded by a board
of examiners--and all this took place within a few seconds, between the impact of one big wave
and another.

A man rushed by, or tried to do so.  Courtenay recognized him as a leading stoker who had temporary
charge of the donkey-boiler and seized him wrathfully, his eyes ablaze.

"Go back!" he roared.

"Señor!  The ship is lost!"

"Go back, and await my orders."

He could have strangled the fugitive in his sudden rage.  The fireman endeavored to gasp his
readiness to obey.  Courtenay relaxed his grip, and, for a time, at least one member of the
crew stuck to his post, fearing the mad captain more than death.

A mob of stewards and kitchen hands came in a torrent up the saloon stairs.  Courtenay met
them, a terrifying figure, and thrust a revolver in their faces.

"Back!" he shouted, "or some of you will die here."

Even in their frenzy they believed him.  The foremost slunk away, and fought in a new terror
with those who would urge them on.  Gray, bleeding from a cut across the forehead, knocked
down a man who brutally tore Isobel out of his path.  Tollemache, a revolver in each hand,
set his back against the corner of the saloon at the foot of the stairs.

"I'm with you, captain," he yelled.

Courtenay saw that he had conquered them--for the instant.  He raised his hand.

"Behave like men," he cried.  "You can do no good by crowding the deck. I am going to the bridge
to see if it is possible to lower the boats. Each boat's crew will be mustered in turn, passengers
and men alike. If you are cowards now you will throw away what chance there is of saving your
lives."

His voice rang out like a trumpet.  His attitude cowed while it reassured them.  Men turned
from one to another to ask what the señor captain was saying.  They understood much, but they
wanted to make sure of each word.  Was there any hope?  Now that the gates of death were opening,
he was a god in their eyes--a god who promised life in return for obedience.

A revolver barked twice somewhere on deck.  A bullet smashed one of the windows of the music-room
and lodged in a panel behind Courtenay.  They all heard the reports, but the captain promptly
turned the incident to advantage.

"You see we mean to maintain order," he said.  "Mr. Malcolm, take care that every one has a
lifebelt."

A sort of cheer came from the men.  Who could fail to believe in a leader so cool and resourceful?
He ran out into the darkness to discover the cause of the shooting.  A number of sailors and
firemen were striving to launch a boat.  There was a struggle going on.  He could not distinguish
friend from foe in the mêlée, but he threw himself into it fearlessly.

"You fools!" he shouted.  "You may die soon enough without killing each other.  Make way there!
Ah! would you?"  He caught the gleam of an uplifted knife, and struck savagely at the face
of the man who would have used it.  The butt of the revolver caught the sailor on the temple.
He went down like a stone.  Courtenay stumbled over another prostrate body.  It was Mr. Boyle,
striving to rise.  Their eyes met in the gloom.  Courtenay stooped and swung the other clear
of the fight, for the second and third officers were using their fists, and Walker, even in
the hurry of his ascent from the stoke-hold, had not let go of a spanner.  The yells and curses,
the trampling of dim forms swaying in the fight, the roaring of the gale, and the incessant
crash of heavy spray made up a ghastly pandemonium.  It was an orgy of terror, of wild abandon,
of hopeless striving on the edge of the pit--a stupid madness at the best, as the ship's life-boats
on the port side were on the spar deck; in their panic the men were endeavoring to lower a
dingy.  Yet Courtenay saw that discipline was regaining its influence.  He thought to inspire
confidence and stop useless savagery by a sharp command.

"All hands follow me to starboard!"

The struggle ceased instantly.  The captain's order seemed to imply some new scheme.  Men who,
a moment ago, would have killed any one who sought to restrain them from clearing the boat's
falls, now raced pell-mell after their officers.  No heed was paid to those who lay on the
deck, wounded or insensible.  Herein alone did these Chilean sailors differ from wolves, and
wolves have the excuse of fierce hunger when they devour their disabled fellows.

Still carrying Boyle, Courtenay led the confused horde through a gangway to the higher side
of the deck.

"Swing those boats back to the spar deck!" he said.  "Get falls and tackle ready to lift them
to port.  Don't lose your heads, men.  You will all be clear of the ship in ten minutes if
you do as you are told."

Two officers and a quarter-master sprang forward.  In an incredibly short space of time the
crew were working with redoubled frenzy, but under control, and with a common object.  For
an instant, Courtenay was free to attend to his chief officer.  He bore him to the lighted
saloon companion.  Boyle was deathly pale under the tan of his skin.  The captain saw that
his own left hand, where it clasped the other round the waist, was covered with blood.

"Below there!" he cried.  "Bring two men here, Mr. Malcolm."

When the chief steward came he gave directions that Mr. Boyle should be taken to the saloon
and Dr. Christobal summoned.

"Send some one you can trust to return," he continued.  "Go then to the lee of the promenade
deck.  You will find others there."

He did not stop to ask himself if solicitude for the unfortunates wounded in the fight were
of any avail.  His mind was clear, the habit of command strong in him.  Not until the sea claimed
him would he cease to rule.  The clank of pulleys, the cries of the sailors heaving at the
ropes, told him that the crew were at work.  At last he was free to go to the bridge.

He found the quarter-master in the chart-house, on his knees.  When the ship struck, the officer
of the watch had been thrown headlong to port. Recovering his feet before a tumbling sea could
fling him overboard, he hauled himself out of danger just in time to take part in the fray
on deck.  He came back now, hurrying to join the captain.  Courtenay, standing in the shelter
of the chart-house, was peering through the flying scud to leeward.  The sea was darker there
than it had been for hours.  Around the ship the surface was milk-like with foam, but beyond
the area of the shoal there seemed to be a remote chance for a boat to live.

"We 're on a sort of breakwater, sir," said the second officer.

"Seems like it.  Is the ship hard and fast?"

"I am afraid so."

"I think the weather is moderating.  Go and see how the barometer stands."

"Steady improvement, sir," came the report.

"Any water coming in?"

"Mr. Walker said he thought not."

"Perhaps it doesn't matter.  Try to get the first life-boat lowered. Let her carry as many
extra hands as possible.  We have lost two boats. But do not send any women in her.  If all
is well, let them go in the next one.  Take charge of that yourself."

"Would you mind tying this handkerchief tightly just here, sir?"

The second officer held out his left forearm.

"Were you knifed, too?" asked Courtenay.

"It is not much, but I am losing a good deal of blood."

"The brutes--the unreasoning brutes!" muttered the captain.  As he knotted the linen into a
rough tourniquet the other asked:

"Shall I report to you when the first boat gets away, sir?"

"No need.  I shall see what happens.  When she is clear I shall bring the ladies to you."

Pride of race helped these men to talk as collectedly as if the ship were laid alongside a
Thames wharf.  They knew not the instant the Kansas might lift again and turn turtle, yet they
did not dream of deviating a hair's breadth from their duties.  The second officer went aft
to carry out the captain's instructions.  Courtenay followed a little way, passing to leeward
of the chart-house, until he reached his own quarters.  There was no door on that side, but
light streamed through a couple of large port-holes across which the curtains had not been
drawn.  He looked in.  Elsie was leaning against the table to balance herself on the sloping
deck.  She held Joey in her arms.  She seemed to be talking to the dog, who answered in his
own way, by trying to lick her face.  The glass was so blurred that Courtenay could not see
that she was crying.

"Better wait," he muttered, and turned his gaze seaward again.  Yes, there could be no doubt
that the almost unbroken swell within half a cable's length of the ship promised a possibility
of escape.  There was no telling what dangers lay beyond.  To his reckoning, the nearest land
was twenty miles distant, but the shoal water might extend all the way, and, with a falling
wind, waves once disintegrated would not regain any considerable size.  It was a throw of the
dice for life, but it must be taken.  He indulged in a momentary thought as to his own course.
Would he leave the ship in the last boat?  Yes, if every wounded man on board were taken off
first; and how could he entertain even a shred of hope that his cowardly crew would preserve
such discipline to the end as to permit of that being done?

The answer to his mute question came sooner than he expected.  He had been standing there alone
about five minutes, intently watching the set of the sea, so as to determine the best time
for lowering a boat, when, amid the sustained shriek of the wind and the lashing of the spray,
he heard sounds which told him that the forward port life-boat was being swung outward on the
davits.  The hurricane deck was a mass of confused figures.  The two boats to starboard, a
life-boat and the jolly-boat, had been carried across the deck in readiness to take the places
of the port life-boats.  A landsman might think that medley reigned supreme; but it was not
so.  Sailor-like work was proceeding with the utmost speed and system, when an accident happened.
For some reason never ascertained, though it was believed that the men in the leading boat
were too anxious to clear the falls and failed to take the proper precautions, the heavy craft
pitched stern foremost into the sea.  She sank like a stone, and with her went a number of
Chileans; their despairing yells, coming up from the churning froth, seemed to be a signal
for the demoniac passions latent in the crew to burst forth again, this time in a consuming
blaze that would not be stayed.  Each man fought blindly for himself, heedless now of all restrictions.
The knowledge of this latest disaster spread with amazing rapidity.  Up from the saloon came
a rush of stewards and others.  Overborne in the panic-stricken flight, Gray, Tollemache, Christobal,
the French Count and the head steward, not knowing what new catastrophe threatened, brought
Mr. Somerville and the almost inanimate women with them, leaving to their fate those who, like
Boyle, were unable to move.  Some of the mob rushed up the bridge companion; others made for
the after ladders used only by sailors; others, again, swung themselves to the spar deck by
the rails and awning standards.  Even before Courtenay could reach the scene, both the second
and third officers were stabbed, this time mortally.  He saw one of the infuriated mutineers
heave the third officer's body overboard--a final quittance for some injury previously received.

He emptied his revolver into the tumbling mass of men, but he was swept aside by the fresh
gang from the saloon, and perhaps owed his escape from instant death by falling on the slippery
deck.  He was up again, shouting, entreating, striking right and left, but he felt bitterly
that his efforts now were of no avail, and he bethought him that there was only one resource
left.  These frenzied wretches would destroy themselves and all others--so, if he would save
even a few of the lives entrusted to his care, at least one of the boats must be protected.
The struggle was fiercest for the possession of the two life-boats.  By a determined effort
the jolly-boat might be secured.

So he ran to obtain help from the few he could trust, from the tiny company of white men he
had left in the saloon; he met them, a forlorn procession, coming up to the bridge.  The all-powerful
instinct of self-preservation, aided, no doubt, by the stinging, drenching showers of spray,
had gone far towards reanimating Isobel and her maid, while Mrs. Somerville, a woman advanced
in years, was able to walk, though benumbed with the sudden cold.  Courtenay unlocked the door
of his cabin.  Elsie, her face pale and tear-stained, but outwardly composed, was yet standing
near the table, and the dog sprang from her arms the moment his master appeared.

"Thank God!" she said, all of a flutter now that the solitary waiting for a death which came
not was ended.  "I feared I should never see you again.  Is the ship lost?"

The wild soughing of the wind rendered her words indistinct.  And the captain had no time for
explanations.

"In here!" he shouted to Gray, who had helped Isobel to enter the chart-room, the first refuge
available on this exposed deck.

"Sharp with it!" he thundered, when Isobel was unwilling to face the storm again.  The men
took their cue from his imperative tone.  Gray clasped Isobel in his arms and lifted her bodily
through the doorway. The others followed his example.  Soon the three women were with Elsie
in the cabin.  Isobel, by sheer reaction from her previous hysteria, was sullen now, and heedless
of all considerations save her own misery. When she set eyes on Elsie she snapped out:

"You here!"

"Yes.  Captain Courtenay brought me to his cabin after our return from the fore saloon."

"Oh, did he?  And he left me with those devils beneath!"

They both heard Courtenay's hurried order:

"Leave the ladies here until we can come for them.  Follow me at once."

The door slammed behind the men.  Even the missionary was fired to action by Courtenay's manner.
Elsie helped Mrs. Somerville to a chair. Then she turned to Isobel, and said gently:

"It is a slight thing to discuss when any moment may be our last, but the captain placed me
here while he went to bring you.  He had gone only a few seconds when the ship struck."

The crest of a wave combed over the upper works and pounded the solid beams and planks of the
cabin until they creaked.  The ship lifted somewhat as the sea enveloped her.

"Oh, this is awful!" shrieked Isobel.  "If I must die, let me die quickly.  I shall go mad."

"Calm yourself, dear.  There must be an end of our sufferings soon. Perhaps we may escape even
yet."

"Yes, I know.  If any one is saved it will be you.  You left me down there to take my chance
among those fiends.  You have been here hours, with your precious captain, no doubt.  Were
he looking after his ship this might not have happened. . . .  Why did I ever come on this
wretched vessel?  And with you, who ran away from Ventana!  I should have been warned by it.
When he could work me no other evil he sent you. . . .  Oh, you have taken a fine vengeance,
Pedro Ventana!  May you be denied mercy as I am denied it now! . . .  Go away!  If you touch
me I shall strike you.  I hate you!  I tell you I am losing my senses.  Do you wish me to tear
your face with my nails?"

Elsie, who would have soothed her distraught friend with a loving hand, drew back in real fear
that she was confronted by a maniac.  The utter outrageousness of this new infliction brought
tears to her eyes.  Yet she choked back her grief for the sake of the others.

"Isobel, darling, please try to control yourself," she pleaded.  "Don't say such cruel things
to me.  You cannot mean them.  I would do anything to serve you.  I am more sorry for you than
for myself.  I have little to bind me to this life, whereas you have everything. Indeed, indeed,
I have not been away from you many minutes."

Another heavy sea pitched on board.  The Kansas trembled and listed suddenly.  Isobel screamed
shrilly, and burst into a storm of dry-eyed sobs.  Her mood changed instantly into one of abject
submission.  She sprang towards Elsie with hands outstretched.

"Oh, save me, save me!" she wailed.  "God knows I am not fit to die!"

There are some noble natures which find strength in the need to comfort the weakness of others.
Elsie drew the distracted girl close to her, and placed an arm round her neck.

"It is not for us to say when we shall die," she murmured.  "Let us try to be resigned.  We
must bear our misfortunes with Christian faith and hope.  Somehow, I feel that I have endured
so much to-night that death looks less terrible now.  Perhaps that is because it is so near.
To me, the specter seems to be receding."

"Did the captain tell you we had any chance of escape, señorita?" asked the Spanish maid.

"What hope did Captain Courtenay hold out?" demanded Mrs. Somerville, who had listened to Isobel's
raving with small comprehension.

Elsie left unuttered the protest on her lips.  They all thought she possessed Courtenay's confidence
in the same extraordinary degree. Well, she would try to impart consolation in that way.  It
was ridiculous, but it would serve.

"Of course we are in a desperate situation," she said, "but while the ship holds together there
is always a chance of rescue, and you can see quite clearly that she is far from breaking up yet."

"Rescue!  Did he speak of rescue?" cried Isobel.  "That is impossible, unless we take to the
boats.  And the cry in the saloon was that two boats were lost long ago and a third just now.
That is why we were brought on deck.  Were they launching a boat?"

"I don't know," said Elsie.  "I was here quite alone, except for Joey."

"Ah, it was true then.  He was acting secretly, and the men broke loose as soon as they heard
of it."

Elsie found this recurring suspicion of Courtenay's motives harder to bear than the preceding
paroxysm of unreasoning rage.  She had heard the shooting, bellowing, and tramping on deck,
and she knew that some terrible scene was being enacted there, while the mere fact that the
captain himself placed the female passengers in his cabin proved that he was doing his best
for all.

"I do not believe for one instant that Captain Courtenay was acting otherwise than as a brave
and honorable gentleman," she said; and then the fantastic folly of such a dispute at such
a moment overcame her. She drew apart from Isobel, leaned against the wall of the cabin, and
wept unrestrainedly.

Her companions in misfortune did not realize how greatly her calm self-reliance had comforted
them until they witnessed this unlooked-for collapse.  The Spanish maid slipped to her knees,
Mrs. Somerville began to rock in her chair in a new agony, and Isobel, to whom a turbulent
spirit denied the relief of tears when they were most needed, buried her face in a curtain
which draped one of the windows.

It was thus that Courtenay found them, when he appeared at the door after a lapse of time which
none of them could measure.

"Now, Miss Maxwell, you first," he said with an air of authority which betokened some new move
of utmost importance.

"First--for what?" she managed to ask.

"You are going off in a boat.  It is your best chance.  Please be quick."

"No, Miss Baring goes before me.  Then the others, I shall come last."

"Have it as you will.  I addressed you because you were nearest the door.  Come along, Miss
Baring."

He waited for no further words.  He grasped Isobel's arm and led her out into the darkness.
It seemed to be a very long time before he returned.

"Now, Mrs. Somerville," he said, but that unhappy lady was so unnerved that he had to carry her.

"Can you manage to bring the maid?" he asked over his shoulder to Elsie.  This trust in her
drove away the weakness which had conquered her under Isobel's taunts.  She stooped over the
maid, but the girl wrestled and fought with her in frantic dread of the passage along the deck
and of facing that howling sea in a small boat.

Elsie herself was almost worn out when Courtenay came back.  He took in the situation at a
glance.  He picked up the shrieking maid in his strong arms.

"You won't mind waiting for me," he said to Elsie.

"Don't attempt to come alone.  You are too exhausted."

It was a fine thing to do, but she smiled at him to show that she could still repay his confidence.

"I shall wait," she said simply.

So she was left there, all alone again, without even the dog to bear her company.

CHAPTER VI

--BUT GOES ON AGAIN INTO THE UNKNOWN

This final waiting for the chance of succor seemed to be the hardest trial of all.  The door
had been hooked back to keep it wide open, so wind and sea invaded the trim privacy of the
cabin.  Spray leaped over the ship in such dense sheets that a considerable quantity of water
quickly lodged on the port side where Courtenay's bunk was fixed. There was no means of escape
for it in that quarter, and the angle at which the Kansas lay would permit a depth of at least
two feet to accumulate ere the water began to flow out through the door to the starboard.

At the great crises of existence the stream of thought is apt to form strange eddies.  Courtenay,
when the ship struck, and it was possible that each second might register his last conscious
impression, found himself coolly reviewing various explanations of the existence of an uncharted
shoal in a locality situate many miles from the known danger zone.  Elsie, strung half-consciously
to the highest tension by the affrighting probability of being set adrift in a small boat at
the mercy of the sea roaring without--a sea which pounded the steel hull of the Kansas with
such force that the great ship seemed to flinch from each blow like a creature in pain--Elsie,
then, faced by such an intolerable prospect, was a prey to real anxiety because the wearing
apparel scattered by Courtenay on the floor was becoming soaked in brine.

She actually stooped to rescue a coat which was not yet saturated beyond redemption.  As she
lifted the garment, a packet of letters, tied with a tape, fell from its folds.  She placed
the coat on the writing-table, and endeavored to stuff the letters into a pigeon-hole. They
were too bulky, so she laid them on the coat.  In doing this she could not avoid seeing the
words, "Your loving sister, Madge," written on the outer fold of the last letter in the bundle.

And that brought a memory of her previous visit to the captain's stateroom; the contrast between
the careless chatter of that glorious summer afternoon and the appalling midnight of this fourth
day of the voyage was something quite immeasurable; it was marked by a void as that which separates
life and death.  She was incapable of reasoned reflection.  A series of mental pictures, a
startling jumble of ideas--trivial as the wish to save the clothes from a wetting, tremendous
as the near prospect of eternity--danced through her brain with bewildering clearness.  She
felt that if she were fated to live to a ripe old age she would never forget a single detail
of the furniture and decorations of the room.  She would hear forever the dolorous howling
of the gale, the thumping of the waves against the quivering plates, the rapid, methodic thud
of the donkey-engine, which, long since deserted by its cowardly attendant, was faithfully
doing its work and flooding the ship with electric light.

She could scarcely believe that it was she, Elsie Maxwell, who stood there on the tremulous
island of the ship amidst a stormy ocean the like of which she had never seen before.  She
seemed to possess an entity apart from herself, to be a passive witness of events as in a dream;
presently, she would awake and find that she was back in her pleasant room at the Morrisons'
hacienda, or tucked up in her own comfortable cabin.  Yet here was proof positive that the
terror which environed her was real.  Bound up with the thunder of the gale were the words,
"Your loving sister, Madge"--evidently the sister Captain Courtenay had spoken of--"matron
of a hospital in the suburbs of London," he said.  Would he ever see her again?  Or his mother?
Had he thought of them at all during this night of woe?  Beneath his iron mask did tears lurk,
and dull agony, and palsied fear--surely a man could suffer like a woman, even though he endured
most nobly?

And then, not thinking in the least what she was doing, she scrutinized the closely tied packet.
She wondered idly why he treasured so many missives.  Each and every one, oddly enough, was
written on differently sized and variously colored note-paper.  And it could be seen at a glance
that they were from as many different people.  The outside letter was the most clearly visible.
Miss Courtenay wrote a well-formed, flowing hand.  If handwriting were a clue to character,
she was a candid, generous, open-minded woman.

But what was this?  Elsie suddenly threw down the letters.  She had read a sentence at the
top of the page twice before she actually grasped its purport.  When its significance dawned
on her, she flushed violently.  For this was what she read:

"I am glad of it, too, because under no other circumstances would I wish to greet and embrace
the woman destined to be your wife."

The knowledge that she had involuntarily intruded on Captain Courtenay's private affairs brought
her back with a certain slight shock to a sense of actualities.  The storm, the horrible danger
she was in, emerged from shadow-land.  Why had he not come for her?  Surely there must have
been some further mishap!  Heavens!  Was she alone on the ship, alone with the dead men and
the dying vessel?  Her head swam with a strange faintness, and she placed a hand to her eyes.
She felt that she must leave the cabin at once, and strive to make her way unaided along the
deck.  Yes, whatever happened, she would go now.  It was too dreadful to wait there any longer
in ignorance as to her fate.

Then Joey sprang in through the doorway, and, with that splendid disregard for sentiment displayed
by a fox-terrier who has just come out of a first-rate fight, shook his harness until it rattled.

But he eyed the inrush of the sea with much disfavor, so he leaped up on the table beside Elsie,
and looked at her as though he would ask why she had permitted this sacrilege.

Though the dog was apparently unscathed and in the best of condition, his head and forepaws
were blood-stained.  His advent dispelled the mist which was gathering in the girl's brain.
She feared a tragedy, yet Joey assuredly would not be so cheerful, so daintily desirous to
avoid the splashing water in the cabin, if his master were injured. She was doubtful now whether
to go on deck or not.  The mere presence of the dog was a guarantee that Courtenay had not
quitted the ship. Indeed, Elsie colored again, and more deeply, at the disloyalty of her ungoverned
fear.  Joey's master would be the last man to desert a woman, no matter what the excuse.  She
strove to listen for any significant noises without, but wind and sea rendered the effort useless
to untrained ears, and there was no shooting or frenzied yells to rise above the storm.

"Oh, Joey," she said, "I wish you could speak!"

The sound of her own voice startled her.  In a fashion, it gave her a measure of time.  It
seemed so long since she had heard a spoken word. The captain could certainly have gone round
the whole ship since he left her.  What could have detained him?  She was yielding to nervousness
again, and was on the point of venturing out, at least as far as the deck-house ran, to see
if she could distinguish what was taking place on the after part of the vessel, when Dr. Christobal
entered.

"I suppose you thought you were forgotten," he cried with a pleasant smile, for Christobal
would have a smile for a woman even on his death-bed.  "There, now!  Don't try to explain your
feelings.  You have had a very trying time, and I want you to oblige me by drinking this."

"This" was a glass of champagne, which he hurriedly poured out of a small bottle he was carrying
into a glass which he produced from a pocket.  The trivial action, no less than Dr. Christobal's
manner, suggested that they were engaged in some fantastic picnic.  The outer horrors were
not for them, apparently.  They were as secure as sight-seers in the Cave of the Winds, awe-smitten
tourists who cling to a rail while mighty Niagara thunders harmlessly overhead.

The mere sight of the wine caused Elsie to realize that her lips and palate were on fire with
salt.  At one moment she had not the slightest cognizance of her suffering; at the next, she
felt that speech was impossible until she drank.  Never before had she known what thirst was.
A somewhat inferior vintage suddenly assumed a bouquet which surpassed the finest cru ever
dreamt of by Marne valley vigneron.

"Ah, that is better," said the doctor.  "Now, if you don't mind, we shall have the door closed."

With peace suddenly restored to the room, and her faculties helped more than she suspected,
Elsie began to wonder what had happened.

"Where are the others?" she asked; "and why are you taking things so coolly?  Captain Courtenay
said--"

"Captain Courtenay said exactly what he meant.  But circumstances proved too strong for him.
We shall not be able to leave the ship just yet."

"Can't they lower any of the boats?"

"Most decidedly.  Two boats have been gone some time.  I imagined you knew that.  Did not the
captain tell you?"

At another time Elsie would have laughed at the prevalent delusion that she enjoyed Courtenay's
confidence so thoroughly.  But she felt that her companion's glib tone was artificial.  Something
had occurred which he was keeping from her.  She believed that he had gone to the saloon to
procure the wine so that she might have what men called Dutch courage when bad news came.

"I have not exchanged a dozen words with the captain since you refused my help in the fore
cabin," she said.  "He had other matters to attend to than explaining the progress of events
to me.  Why cannot you trust me?  I shall not scream, nor faint, nor hinder you in your work;
I ask you again--  Where are the others?"

"You mean Miss Baring and Mrs. Somerville?"

"Yes."

"If they are living, they are far enough away by this time.  When their boat was lowered it
was cast off prematurely--"

"Purposely?"

"Well--yes.  Courtenay had just placed Miss Baring's maid on board when some of the crew let
go the ropes.  What could we do?  We were forced to depend on them."

"Is there no other boat?"

Christobal threw out his hands in his characteristic gesture.  He was so emphatic that he spilled
some of the wine.

"You take it bravely," he said.  "I may as well give you the whole story.  The first boat lowered
was lost, through the men's own bungling, the captain says.  Then there was a desperate fight
for the three remaining craft.  Most of the officers were killed.  Courtenay got a few of us
together when Isobel and Mrs. Somerville joined you here, and we held off such of the madmen
as tried to seize the jolly-boat.  They managed to lower two life-boats, but, between murder
and panic, not half of the crew escaped in that way.  Four men, who were left behind, promised
obedience, and Malcolm, the steward, was placed in charge, with Mr. Gray as second in command.
One of the engineers, acting on the captain's orders, brought a can of oil from the engine-room
and threw it over the side in handfuls.  The result was magical.  We lowered the boat easily,
placed Monsieur de Poincilit on board, because he was worse than the women, and then Courtenay,
as you know, brought Isobel, the minister's wife--who refused to go without her husband--and
the maid.  There was room for you and another, so, at the captain's request, Tollemache and
I tossed for the vacancy. Meanwhile, Courtenay had turned to go for you, when we heard a shout
from Gray; two of the Chileans had cast off the ropes which kept the boat alongside.  Gray,
who was fending her from the ship with the boat-hook, jabbed one fellow in the face with it;
but he was too late. The boat raced off into the darkness.  And here we are!"

That Christobal left several things unsaid Elsie knew quite well.  He plumed himself on the
reserve he had acquired from his English mother, though in all matters pertaining to nationality
he was a true hidalgo. Indeed, there was a touch of vanity in the way he examined the sparkle
of the champagne he now poured into Elsie's empty glass.  He scrutinized the wine with the
air of a connoisseur.  He was looking for the gas to rise in three or four well-defined spirals.
And he nodded doubtfully, before drinking it, as one might say:

"The right brand, but of what year?"

Then it dawned on the girl that both her elderly friend and she herself were accepting an extraordinary
situation with remarkable nonchalance.

"How many of us remain on the ship?" she asked.

"Very few--on the effective list.  The captain, an engineer whose name I do not know, Mr. Tollemache,
and ourselves make up the total."

"Where is Mr. Boyle?"

"Ah, poor Boyle!  I fear he is done for.  He is very badly wounded.  I bandaged him as well
as I could, but the call on deck was imperative."

"Is he in the saloon?  Should we not go to him?"

"I have only just left him.  The hemorrhage has stopped, and I gave him some brandy.  Believe
me, we can do nothing more for him.  I told Courtenay it was quite useless to place him on
board the boat.  You may be sure he was not forgotten."

"I did not imagine that any one would be forgotten," said Elsie, and, for some reason, the
light in her eyes caused Christobal to go on rapidly:

"We have a whole crowd of injured men on board, Miss Maxwell.  At present we can render them
no aid.  I thought it wisest to obey orders. The captain told me to bring you some wine and
remain with you here. It will not be for long."

"Why do you say that?"

"The ship appears to be lodged hard and fast on a reef or sandspit.  I am told the tide is
rising.  If that is so, our only hope is in the raft which our three allies are now constructing.
With a falling tide we might have a breathing-space at low water.  As it is, well--"

Christobal, with a bottle in one hand and a glass in the other, nevertheless waved them.  Elsie,
whose nervous system at this juncture was proof against any but the last pang of imminent death,
could almost have laughed at the queer figure he cut, brandishing his arms and standing awkwardly
on the inclined deck.  She bent her head to hide the smile on her lips; she noticed that Joey
was panting, the use of his teeth on various wet legs during the tussle for the jolly-boat
having caused him to swallow more salt-water than he cared for.  Elsie's sympathies were aroused.
While assuaging her own thirst she had neglected the dog.  She took a carafe of water from
its wooden stand near the table, and poured some of the contents into a tumbler.  Joey's thanks
were ecstatic.  He yelped with delight at the mere thought of a drink.

While the dog was lapping a second supply, the Kansas shifted again with a disconcerting suddenness.
The water in the cabin swirled across the floor as the ship was restored to an even keel. 
The movement dislodged the packet of letters.  It fell, and Elsie rescued it a second time.
Christobal watched her with undisguised admiration.

"Really," he said, "I find you wonderful."

"Why?"  Certainly she might be pardoned for seeking an explanation of any compliment just then.

"Why?  Por Dios!  Excuse me, but that slipped out sideways.  Just imagine any woman being able
to attend to a dog and pick up a bundle of letters at the very instant the ship appeared to
be slipping off into deep water!"

"Is not that the best thing that can happen?"

"My dear young lady, we should sink instantly."

"How do you know?"

"Well--er--I don't exactly know, but I assume that the hull was broken long since."

"I don't see why you should take that for granted.  These very movements seem to me to argue
buoyancy.  Somehow, I feel far safer here than if I were--"

She was interrupted by the opening of the door, and the consequent roar of the gale.  It was
Walker, the engineer, a lank, swarthy man, with long black mustaches which drooped forlornly
down the sides of his mouth.  He shouted, with the inimitable accent of Tyneside:

"Yo' wanted, Docto' Chwistobal.  The captain thinks Mr. Boyle is bettaw."

"May I come, too?" asked Elsie.

"No, missie.  You bide he-aw."

"Please tell me before you go--is the ship full of water?"

"She's dwy as a bone," said Walker.  A sea splashed over him and sent a shower into the cabin.
"A vewy wet bone," he added, with a broad grin, for the Northumbrian had a ready wit though
he had such a solemn jowl, and he could not pronounce an "r" to save his life.

"Between you and the captain, I am beginning to be infected by belief," said Christobal to
Elsie.  "Let me recommend you to close the door behind us."

And she was left with the dog for company once more.  A chronometer showed that the hour was
past midnight.  She knew sufficient of the sea to understand that the clock was probably accurate,
as the course had practically followed the same meridian since the Kansas quitted Valparaiso.
So the ship and those left on board had entered on another day!  How little she had thought
that to be possible when the awful knowledge first came to her that the Kansas was ashore!
How long ago was that?  Then she remembered that when Courtenay placed her in his cabin with
the promise to bring Isobel to her, she had noticed the time--eleven o'clock.  Was it conceivable
that only one hour had elapsed since she and her four-footed friend were flung all of a heap
into a corner by the impact of the vessel against the sand-bank?  One hour!  Surely there was
some mistake; she puzzled over the problem, recounting each event since the conclusion of dinner,
and finally convinced herself that her recollection was not at fault.  An hour--one of eternity's
hours!

The words had a new and solemn meaning to her.  Yesterday was her thousand years--this was
her watch in the night--and it would pass as a tale that is told.  Involuntarily she turned
to the bookcase behind her, and took the Bible from the little library of books which she had
laughingly described as "a curious assortment."  It was her intent to find the psalm containing
that awe-inspiring verse, and read the whole of it, but, in turning over the leaves, she came
upon a scrap of paper with notes on it.  The handwriting was scholarly and legible.  She thought
that Captain Courtenay would probably write just such a hand. Though her cheeks tingled a little
at the memory of the words in his sister's letter, there was no harm in reading a memorandum
evidently intended to mark a passage in the book.  The items were sufficiently striking:--"Meribah--a
place of strife; Selah--a repetition, or sort of musical da capo."

This stirred her to seek an explanation.  She searched the two pages which opened at the marker,
and, in the seventh verse of the 81st Psalm, she found the key:

"Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder;
I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah."

The phrases were strangely appropriate to her present environment. They were almost prophetic,
and there was even a sinister sound in the concluding instruction to the "chief musician upon
Gittith" in this psalm of Asaph.  That was the terrible feature of her vigil.  There was no
knowing when or how it would end.  She closed the book in a state more closely approximating
to hysterical fright than she had been at any previous time during that most trying night.
The truth was, though she could not realize it, that her senses were far too alert, her brain
too preoccupied, to permit of such an ordered task as reading.  In her mind's eye, she saw
the boats, with their cowering occupants, plunging and tossing in that frenzied sea.  By contrast,
she was far better off on the ship.  Yet, were it not for the action of some cowardly Chilean,
she must have gone with Isobel and the others.  It was torturing to think that her fancied
security was really more perilous than the more apparent plight of the storm-tossed boats.
No wonder she could not read, though the words were inspired!

And Joey was becoming restless.  He danced backwards and forwards on the table where he had
taken refuge from the invading flood.  Indeed, the dog knew, long before Elsie, that the Kansas
was afloat again. At last she noticed that the water in the cabin was gurgling to and fro,
and, in the same instant, she felt the regular swing of the moving ship.  She was speculating
on the outcome of this new condition of affairs when the door opened and Walker thrust his
lantern-jawed face within.  He grinned cheerfully.

"I've come to fetch you to yo' cabin, miss," he announced.  "The ship's under weigh, an', as
yo' pwobably winging wet, the captain says you ought to change yo' clo'es."

Joey followed her out, but deserted her instantly.  She saw the reason, when Walker helped
her to reach the bridge companion.  Courtenay was in the chart-house, at the wheel.  He gave
her a friendly nod as she passed.  Somehow, Elsie felt safe now that the ship was in the captain's
hands again.

CHAPTER VII

UNTIL THE DAWN

Walker was about to take her to the saloon, whence an inner staircase communicated with the
principal staterooms, but she knew that the door leading to the promenade deck had been left
unlocked, so she signaled him to lead her the speediest way.  Speak she could not.  Although
there was a perceptible improvement in the weather, Elsie found the wind even harder to combat
than when she traversed the deck with Courtenay.  This apparent contradiction arose from the
fact that during their early dealing with the boats the sailors had cut away the greater part
of the canvas shield rigged to protect passengers from adventurous seas.

Nevertheless, all flustered and breathless as she was, she held Walker back when he would have
left her in the shelter of her cabin.

"Do spare me one moment," she pleaded.  "When I have put on dry clothing, what am I to do?
Where am I to go?  I will do anything rather than remain alone."

Walker jammed himself in the doorway to break the violence of the unceasing deluge of spray.

"Well, missie," he said, "I'm examining the engines, Mistaw Tollemache is fi-wing up the donkey-boiler,
an' Doctaw Chwistobal is with Mistaw Boyle. You know whe-aw the captain is, so I weckon yo'
best place is the saloon."

"Dr. Christobal said you were making a raft?"

"That's wight.  But when the ship got off, we tackled othaw jobs.  She is ow-ah best waft."

"And--do you think--we have any chance."

"Nevah say 'die,' missie.  Owt can happen at sea."

She made a guess at the meaning of "owt."

"May I not look after some of the injured men?"

"That you can't," was Walker's prompt assurance.  "You'd bettaw stick to the saloon.  I'll
tell the captain yo' the-aw."

"Tell him?  Are you returning to the bridge?"

"Telephone!" shouted Walker, as an unusually heavy sea caused him to slam the door unceremoniously.
He bolted it, too.  Not if he could help it would his charge come out on that storm-swept deck
unattended.

The electric light glowed brightly in Elsie's cabin, exactly as she had left it an hour ago.
This was one of the anomalous conditions of the disaster.  It lent a queer sense of Midsummer
madness to the night's doings.  In a few days it would be Christmas, the Christmas of sunshine
and flowers known only to that lesser portion of the habitable earth south of the line.  In
Valparaiso the weather was stifling, yet here, not so very far away, it was bitterly cold.
And the ship was driving headlong to destruction, though electric bells and switches were at
command in a luxuriously furnished apartment, while the engineer had just spoken of the telephone
as a means of conversing with the captain.  Away down in her feminine heart the girl wondered
why Courtenay himself had not come to her.  Why had he sent Christobal first and Walker subsequently?
Oh, of course he had more urgent matters to attend to, though, in the helpless condition of
the ship, it was difficult to appreciate their precise degrees of importance.

Anyhow, he had sent word that she was to change her clothes, and he must be obeyed, as Dr.
Christobal said.  Then she discovered, as a quite new and physically disagreeable fact, that
her skirts were soaked up to her knees, while her blouse was almost in the same condition owing
to the quantity of spray which had run down inside her thick ulster.

It was an absurd thing to be afraid of after all she had endured, but Elsie cried a little
when she realized that she had been literally wet to the skin without knowing it.  In truth,
she had a momentary dread of a fainting fit, and it was not until she untied the veil which
held her Tam o' Shanter in its place that she learnt how the knot had come near to suffocating her.

The prompt relief thus afforded brought an equally absurd desire to laugh.  She yielded to
that somewhat, but busied herself in procuring fresh clothing and boots.  The outcome of the
pleasant feeling of warmth and comfort was such as the girl herself would not have guessed
in a week.  The mere grateful touch of the dry garments induced an extraordinary drowsiness.
She felt that she must lie down--just for a minute.  She stretched herself on the bed, closed
her eyes, and was straightway sound asleep.  At the captain's suggestion, Christobal had given
her a strong dose of bromide in the wine!

It was better so.  If the ship were dashed to pieces against the rocks which unquestionably
lay ahead, Elsie would be whirled to the life eternal before she quite knew what was happening.
If, on the other hand, some miracle of the sea enabled the men to construct a seaworthy raft
in time, or the rising tide permitted the Kansas to escape, in so far as to run ashore again
in a comparatively sheltered position, she would be none the worse for an hour's sleep.  And
now that the ship was afloat, there were things to be done which only men could do.  The saloon,
the decks, the forecabin, were places of the dead.  Fearing lest Elsie might pass, Christobal,
before attending to Boyle, had thrown table-cloths over the bodies of men slain in the saloon,
for Gray and Tollemache had sternly but vainly striven to repress the second revolt.  Tollemache
and Walker had dragged out of the smothering spray near the port davits three men who seemed
to be merely stunned.  These, with the chief officer, and perhaps four survivers of the explosion,
made up the list of living but non-effective members of the ship's company.  There was one
other, Gulielmo Frascuelo, who was bawling for dear life in his bunk in the forecastle, but
in that dark hour no one chanced to remember him, and it needed more than a human voice to
pit itself against the hurricane which roared over the vessel.  The unhappy wretch knew that
something out of the ordinary had taken place, and he was scared half out of his wits by the
continued absence of the crew.  Luckily for himself, he did not appreciate the real predicament
of the ship, or he would have raved himself into madness.

Walker, in his brief catalogue of occupations, had suppressed one.  To make sure, Christobal
closed a water-tight bulkhead door which cut off the principal staterooms from the saloon.
Then he and his two helpers carried out a painful but necessary task.  It was his duty to certify
whether or not life was extinct.  There were very few exceptions.  The three men lifted the
bodies and threw them overboard.  When they reached the corpses of the second officer and a
Spanish engineer who had been knifed in the defense of the jolly-boat--his comrade had scrambled
into one of the life-boats--Tollemache took possession of such money, documents, and valuables
as were in their pockets, intending to draw up an inventory when an opportunity presented itself.

Though they knew not the moment when a sickening crash would herald the final dissolution of
the ship, they proceeded with their work methodically.  In half an hour they had reached the
end.  All the injured men--seven nondescript sailors and firemen--were carried to the saloon
and placed under Christobal's care.  Walker dived below to the engine-room, where he had already
disconnected the rods broken or bent by the fracture of a guard ring, which, in its turn, was
injured by the blowing out of a junk-ring, a stout ring of forged steel secured to one of the
pistons.  He could do nothing more on deck.  Whether he was destined to live fifty seconds
or as many years he was ill content to hear his beloved engines knocking themselves to pieces
with each roll of the ship.

Tollemache, who undertook the firing of the donkey-boiler, which was situated on the main deck
aft of the saloon--for the Kansas was built chiefly to accommodate cargo--during his wanderings
round the world had picked up sufficient knowledge of steam-power to shovel fuel into the furnace
and regulate the water-level by the feed valve and pump.  The small engine, more reliable and
quite as powerful as a hundred men, was in perfect order.  It abounded in valves and taps,
but Walker's parting instructions were explicit:

"Keep yo' eye on the glass, an' pitch in a shovel of coal evewy ten minutes: she'll do the west."

So the new hand, satisfied that the gage was correct and the furnace lively, lit his pipe,
sat down, and began to jot in a note-book the contents of his coat-pockets.  The Spaniard's
letters he could not read, though he gathered that one of them was from a wife in Vallodolid,
who would travel overland early in January to meet her husband.  But the Englishman's correspondence
was terribly explicit.  A "heart-broken mother" wrote from Liverpool that "Jack" had been shot
during one of the many cold-weather campaigns on the Indian frontier.  "I have no news, simply
a telegram from the War Office.  But of what avail to know how my darling died.  My tears are
blinding me.  You and I alone are left, and you are thousands of miles away.  May the Lord
be merciful to me, a widow, and bring you home to comfort me."  Yet the knife which killed
him must have gone very near that letter.

Tollemache tried to grip his pipe in his teeth.  He failed.  It fell on the iron floor.

"Oh, this is rotten!" he growled.  "Why couldn't he have been spared?  No one would have missed
me.  I don't suppose Jennie would care tuppence."

The Kansas rolled heavily.  He waited a few seconds for the expected shock, but she swung back
to an even keel.  Then he stooped to pick up his pipe, and his mouth hardened.

"'Spared!' by gad!" he said.  "What rot!"  That roll of the ship was caused by an experimental
twist of the wheel.  Courtenay, peering into the darkness through the open window of the chart-house,
saw that the weather was clearing.  He had evolved a theory, and, for want of a better, he
was determined to pursue it to a finish.  The Kansas was being swiftly carried along in a strong
and deep tidal current.  Happily, the wind followed the set of the sea, else there would be
no chance of success for his daring plan.  His expedient was the desperate one of keeping the
vessel in the line of the current, and, if day broke before he reached the coast, he would
steer for any opening which presented itself in the fringe of reefs which must assuredly guard
the mainland.

With his hands grasping the taut and, in one sense, irresponsive mechanism of a steering-wheel
governed by steam, a sailor can "feel" the movement of his ship, a seaworthy vessel being a
living thing, obedient as a docile horse to the least touch of the rein.  But, in the unlikely
event of fortune favoring Courtenay to the extent of giving him an opportunity to see the coming
danger, it was essential that the ship should have a certain radius of action apart from the
direction and force of the ocean stream.  The two sails were helpful, and it was to assure
himself of their efficiency that he put the helm to starboard.  The Kansas obeyed with an answering
roll to port, showing clearly that she was traveling a little faster than the inrushing tide
would take her unaided.  He brought her head back to nor'east again, and glanced over his shoulder
at the ship's chronometer.  It was a quarter to one.  Two hours must pass before he would discern
the first faint streaks of light. At any rate, if he were spared to greet the dawn, it would
be right ahead, and, as a few seconds might then be of utmost value, that was a small point
in his favor.  Yet, two hours!  Could he dare to hope for so long a respite?  How could the
ship escape the unnumbered fangs which a storm-torn land thrust far out into the Pacific for
its own protection?

He was quite sheltered from the wind and spray in the chart-house, and, all at once, he became
aware of a burning thirst.  There was water in a decanter close at hand, so he indulged in
a long drink.  That was wonderfully vivifying.  Then his mind turned longingly to tobacco.
For the first time in his life he broke the strict rule of the service in which he had been
trained--and smoked a cigar while on duty.

Now and again he spoke cheerily to the dog.  It would be:

"Well, Joey, here we are; still got a bark in us!" . . .  Or, "You and I must have our names
on the Admiralty chart, Joey:--'Channel surveyed by Captain Courtenay and pup; details uncertain.'
How does that sound, old chap?"  And again, "I suppose your friend, Miss Maxwell, is asleep
by this time.  If she calls you 'Joey,' do you call her 'Elsie'?  I rather fancy Elsie as a
name.  What do you think?"

To all of which the dog, who had found a dry corner, would respond with a smile and a tail-wag.
What?  Joey couldn't smile!  Make a friend of a fox-terrier and learn what a genuine, whole-hearted,
delighted-to-see-you grin he will favor you with: he can smile as unmistakably as he can yawn.

If deeper emotions peeped up in Courtenay's soul, he crushed them resolutely.  Men of the sea
do not cultivate heroics.  They leave sentiment to those imaginative people who evolve eery
visions of a storm in the smug comfort of suburban villas.  When the Kansas lay on the shoal
Courtenay was certain that the ship was lost, or he would never have dispatched some of his
passengers and crew in the only boat available.  He acted to the best of his judgment then;
he was acting similarly now in abandoning the last resource of a raft in order to keep the
vessel on her present course.  But, then or now, he paid no heed whatever to the obvious fact
that he and the second engineer, and at least one of the male passengers, must be the last
to quit the ship. That was the code of all true sailor-men--the women first, then the male
passengers and crew followed by the officers, beginning at the junior in rank.  There could
be room for no hesitancy or dispute--it was just a sailor-like way of doing one's duty, in
the simple faith that the recording angel would enter up the log.

The long wait in the darkness would have broken many a man's nerve, but Courtenay was not cast
in a mold to be either bent or broken by fear. When his cigar was not in his mouth he whistled,
he hummed snatches of songs, and delivered short lectures to Joey on the absurdity of things
in general, and the special ridiculousness of such a mighty combination of circumstances centering
on one poor ship as had fore-gathered to crush the Kansas.  Ever since he was aroused from
sleep by the stopping of the screw, his mind had dwelt on the unprecedented nature of the break-down.
Even before he discovered its cause he was wondering what evil chance bad contrived to cripple
the engine at such a moment--in the worst possible place on the map.

"Joey!" he said suddenly, his thoughts reverting to a chance remark made to him in Valparaiso
by Isobel's father, "what did Mr. Baring mean by saying there was a difficulty about the insurance?"

Joey gave it up, but he cocked his ears and looked towards the door. Christobal entered.

"Boyle will recover," he said, when he had wiped the spray off his face. "He had a narrow escape;
the knife just grazed the spinal cord.  The shock to the dorsal nerves induced temporary paralysis,
and that rather misled me.  He is much better now.  Under ordinary conditions he would be able
to get about in a few days.  As it is, he will probably live as long as any of us."

Christobal waved a hand towards the external void.  He was not sailor enough to realize the
change in the weather.

"That is good news," said Courtenay.

"I thought you would like to know.  How are things up here?"

"Better.  The barometer has risen an inch in less than two hours. Possibly, nearness to the
land has some effect, but wind and sea are subsiding."

"You surprise me; yet that is nothing.  I have had several surprises to-night.  What is the
position?  Of course, we must hit the South American continent sooner or later; can you fix
an approximate time?"

"We are making about six knots, I fancy.  If we are lucky, and avoid any stray rocks, we should
see daylight before we reach the coast.  That is our sole hope.  The ship is in a powerful
tidal current, and it is high-water at 5.30 A.M.  At a rough estimate, Hanover Island is twenty
knots distant.  Now you know all.  The outcome is mere guesswork."

"Why did the furnaces blow up?"

"I was cross-examining Joey on that point when you came in.  He reserved his opinion.  My own
view is that, by accident or design, some explosive substance found its way into the coal."

"Shem, Ham and Japheth!  Explosive substance!  Do you mean dynamite, or gunpowder, or that
sort of thing?"

"Something of the kind.  That is only a supposition, but when I whispered it to Walker he agreed."

"Walker!  Is he the man who speaks so queerly?"

"If ever you go to Newcastle, don't put it that way.  I told him to take Miss Maxwell to her
cabin.  Did he do so?"

"Yes.  I have not seen her since, so I assume that the bromide, plus the wine, was effective.
Well, I must return to my patients.  Can I get you anything?  I am store-keeper, you know."

"No, thanks."

"Nothing to eat, or drink?"

"Nothing.  I shall be ready for a square meal when I am able to come below--not before."

Christobal smiled.  Though he was a brave man, he thought such persistent optimism was out
of place.  Nevertheless, he could emulate Courtenay's coolness.

"Let me know when you are ready.  I am an excellent cook," he said.

Then the captain of the Kansas resumed his smoking and humming, with occasional glances at
the clock, and the compass, and the barometer.  At two o'clock he felt the ship slipping from
under the wheel.  The compass showed that she was heading a couple of points eastward.  He
helped her, and telephoned instantly to Walker:

"Go forward and try if you can make out anything.  Report to me here."

"Ay, ay, sir," came the reply, and anon Walker appeared.

"It's main thick ahead, sir, but I think we-aw passin' an island to port," said he.

"I thought so.  You had better remain here, Walker.  We have not long to wait now for the dawn,
and four eyes are better than two."

Walker imagined that the skipper was ready for a chat.

"Things are in a dweadful mess below, sir.  I can't make head or tail of the smash."

"Well, that must wait.  Don't talk.  Keep a sharp lookout."

The engineer could not guess that the captain's pulse was beating a trifle more rapidly with
a certain elation.  They were undoubtedly passing White Horse Island.  It revealed its presence
by deflecting the tremendous sea-river which ferried the Kansas onward at such a rate. In fifteen
or twenty minutes Courtenay expected to find indications of a more northerly set of the tide,
and he watched the compass intently for the first sign of this return to the former course.
If the ship crossed the current one way or the other she would certainly be driven ashore on
some outlying spur of the island or detached sunken reef.  Hence, he must actually guess his
way, with something of the acquired sense of the blind, because the slight chance of ultimate
escape for the ship and her occupants rested wholly on the assumption that some ocean by-way
was leading her to a deep-water inlet, where it might be possible to drop the anchor.

In eighteen minutes, or thereabouts, the needle moved slightly. Courtenay once more assisted
the ship with the helm.  She steadied herself, and the compass pointed due northeast again.

Walker, though an engineer, knew enough of navigation to recognize the apparent impossibility
of the captain's being able to steer with any real knowledge of his surroundings.  The wheel-twisting,
therefore, savored of magic; but his orders were to look ahead, and he obeyed.

Soon he thought he could discern an irregular pink crescent, with the concave side downwards,
somewhere in the blackness beyond the bows.  He rubbed his eyes, and said nothing, believing
that the unaccustomed strain of gazing into the dark had affected his sight.  But the pink
crescent brightened and deepened, and speedily it was joined by two others, equally irregular
and somewhat lower.  Then he could bear the suspense no longer.

"Captain, d'ye see yon?" he asked, in a voice tremulous with awe.

"Yes.  That is the sun just catching the summits of snow-topped hills. It not only foretells
the dawn, but is a sign of fine weather.  There are no clouds over the land, or we should not
see the peaks."

Walker began to have a respect for the captain which he had hitherto extended only to the superintending
engineer, an eminent personage who never goes to sea, but inspects the ship when in port, and
draws a fat salary and various commissions.

Ere long a silver gray light began to dispel the gloom.  The two silent watchers first saw
it overhead, and the vast dome of day swiftly widened over the vexed sea.  The aftermath of
the storm spread a low, dense cloak of vapor all round.  The wind had fallen so greatly that
they could hear the song of the rigging.  Soon they could distinguish the outlines of the heavy
rollers near at hand, and Courtenay believed that the ship, in her passage, encountered in
the water several narrow bands of a bright red color.  If this were so, he knew that the phenomenon
was caused by the prawn-like Crustacea which sailors call "Whale-food," a sure sign of deep
water close to land, and, further, an indication that the current was still flowing strongly,
while the force of the sea must have been broken many miles to westward.

Suddenly he turned to Walker.

"Do you think you could shin up to the masthead?" he asked.

"I used to be able to climb a bit, sir."

"Well, try the foremast.  Up there I am fairly certain you can see over this bank of mist.
Don't get into trouble.  Come back if you feel you can't manage it.  If you succeed, take the
best observations possible and report."

Courtenay was becoming anxious now.  If he dared let go the wheel he would have climbed the
mast himself.  Walker set about his mission in a business-like manner.  He threw off his thick
coat and boots, and went forward.  Half-way up the mast there was a rope ladder for the use
of the sailors when adjusting pulleys.

The rest of the journey was not difficult for an athletic man, and Walker was quickly an indistinct
figure in the fog.  He gained the truck all right, and instantly yelled something.  Courtenay
fancied he said:

"My God!  We-ah on the wocks!"

Whatever it was, Walker did not wait, but slid downward with such speed that it was fortunate
the rigging barred his progress.

And then, even while Courtenay was shouting for some explanation, a great black wall rose out
of the deep on the port bow.  It was a pinnacle rock, high as the ship's masts, but only a
few feet wide at sea level, and the Kansas sped past this ugly monitor as though it were a
buoy in a well-marked channel.

Courtenay heard the sea breaking against it.  The ship could not have been more than sixty
feet distant, a little more than her own beam, and he fully expected that she would grind against
some outlier in the next instant.  But the Kansas had a charmed life.  She ran on unscathed,
and seemed to be traveling in smoother water after this escape.

Walker's dark skin was the color of parchment when he reached the chart-house.

"Captain," he said, weakly, "I 'll do owt wi' engines, but I'm no good at this game.  That
thing fairly banged me.  Did ye see it?"

"Did you see land?" demanded Courtenay, imperatively.  His spirits rose with each of these
thrills.  He felt that it was ordained that his ship should live.

"Yes, sir.  The-aw 's hills, and big ones, a long way ahead, but I 'm no' goin' up that mast
again.  It would be suicide.  I'm done.  I'll nev-ah fo-get yon stone ghost, no, not if I live
to be ninety."

Then Joey, sniffing the morning, uncurled himself, stretched, yawned loudly, and thought of
breakfast, for he had passed a rather disturbed night, the second in one week.  To cope with
such excitement, a dog needed sustenance.

CHAPTER VIII

IN A WILD HAVEN

Fortune has her cycles, whether for good or ill.  The Kansas, having run the gauntlet of many
dangers, seemed to have earned an approving smile from the fickle goddess.  A slight but perceptible
veering of the wind, combined with the increasing power of the sun's rays, swept the ocean
clear of its storm-wraiths.  Soon after passing the pillar rock, Courtenay thought he could
make out the unwavering outline of mountainous land amid the gray mists.  A few minutes later
the waves racing alongside changed their leaden hue to a steely glitter which told him the
fog was dispersing.  The nearer blue of the ocean carpet spread an ever-widening circle until
it merged into a vivid green. Then, with startling suddenness, the curtain was drawn aside
on a panorama at once magnificent and amazing.

Almost without warning, the ship was found to be entering the estuary of a narrow fiord.  Gaunt
headlands, carved on Titanic scale out of the solid rock, guarded the entrance, and already
shut out the more distant coast-line.  Behind these first massive walls, everywhere unscalable,
and rising in separate promontories to altitudes of, perhaps, four hundred feet, an inner fortification
of precipitous mountains flung their glacier-clad peaks heavenward to immense heights,--heights
which, in that region, soared far above the snow-line.  The sun was reflected with dazzling
brilliancy from their icy summits, and wonderful lights sparkled in rainbow tints on their
slopes.  Delicate pink deepened to rose crimson; pale greens softened into the beryl blue of
stupendous glaciers, vast frozen cataracts which flowed down deep and broad clefts almost to
the water's edge.

Above these color-bands, the dead-white mantle of everlasting snow spread its folds, with here
and there a black ridge of granite thrusting wind-cleared fangs high above the far-flung shroud.
But, if the crests of peak upon peak were thus clothed in white, their bases wore a garment
of different texture.  Save on the seaward terraces of stark rock, with their tide-marked base
of weed-covered boulders, the densest vegetation known to mankind imposed everywhere a first
barrier to human progress far more unconquerable than the awesome regions beyond.  Pine forests
of extraordinary density crammed each available yard of space, until the tree-growth yielded
perforce to hardier Alpine moss and lichens.  This lower belt of deepest green ranged from
five hundred to one thousand feet in height, as conditions were adverse or favorable; waterfalls
abounded; each tiny glen held its foaming rivulet, rushing madly down the steep, or leaping
in fine cascades from one rocky escarpment to another.  Courtenay, after an astounded glance
at the magnitude and solemn grandeur of the spectacle, had eyes for naught save the conformation
of the channel.  The change in the wind was caused, he found, by the northerly headland thrusting
its giant mass a mile, or more, westward of its twin; but he quickly discovered, from the conformation
of the land, that the latter was really the protecting cape of the inner water-way.  He reasoned,
therefore, that the deep-water channel flowed close to the northern shore until it was flung
off by the relentless rocks to seek the easier inlet behind the opposite point.

He did not know yet whether the ship was entering some unknown straits or the mouth of a narrow
land-locked bay.  If the latter, the presence of the distant glaciers and the nearer torrents
warned him of a possible bar, on which the Kansas might be lost within sight of safe anchorage.
Not inspired guesswork now, but the skill of the pilot, was needed; this crossing the bar in
broad daylight was as great a trial of nerve in its way as the earlier onward rush in the dark.

Wind and sea had abated so sensibly that the Pacific rollers raced on unbroken, and it was
no longer a super-human task to make one's voice heard along the deck.

So the captain aroused Walker with a sharp order:

"Go and see if the donkey-boiler has a good head of steam.  We may have to drop the stream
anchor quick, and both bowers as well.  If Tollemache is doing his work properly, go forward,
and keep a sharp lookout for broken water.  Clear off the tarpaulins, and be ready to lower
away the instant I sing out."

Walker, who had been gazing spellbound at the majestic haven opening up before the ship, hurried
on his errand.  He found Tollemache seated on an upturned bucket, in which the taciturn one
had just washed his face and hands.

"Have you seen it?" demanded Walker, gleefully, while his practised eyes took in the state
of the gages and he overran a number of oil taps with nimble fingers.

"Seen what?" asked Tollemache, without removing his pipe.

"The land, my bonnie lad.  We-ah wunnin' wight in now."

"We've been doing that for hours."

"Yes, but this is diff'went.  The'aw's a fine wiv-ah ahead.  Have ye ev-ah seen the Tyne? 
Well, just shove Sooth Sheels an' Tynemouth a few hundwed feet high-ah, an' you've got it.
Now, don't twy to talk, or you might cwack yo' face."

With this Parthian shaft of humor he vanished towards the forecastle, whence the ubiquitous
donkey-boiler, through one of its long arms, would shoot forth the stockless anchors at the
touch of a lever. Tollemache, who had already glimpsed the coast, strolled out on deck and
bent well over the side in order to look more directly ahead.  He could see one half only of
the view, but that sufficed.

"A respite!" he growled to himself.  "Penal servitude instead of sudden death."

And, indeed, this was the true aspect of things, as Courtenay discovered when he had successfully
brought the ship past three ugly reefs and dropped anchor in the backwater of a small sheltered
bay.  He speedily abandoned the half-formed hope that the Kansas might have run into an ocean
water-way which communicated with Smyth Channel.  The rampart of snow-clad hills had no break,
while a hasty scrutiny of the chart showed him that the eastern coast of Hanover Island had
been thoroughly surveyed.  Yet it was not in human nature that he should not experience a rush
of joy at the thought that, by his own efforts, he had saved his ship and some, at least, of
the lives entrusted to his care.  He was alone when the music of the chains in the hawse-pipes
sounded in his ears.  The Kansas had plenty of room to swing, but he thought it best to moor
her.  Believing implicitly now that he would yet bring his vessel into the Thames, he allowed
her to be carried round by the fast-flowing tide until her nose pointed seaward, and she lay
in the comparatively still water inshore.  Then he dropped the second anchor and stepped forth
from the chart-house.  His long vigil was ended.  Some of the cloud of care lifted from his
face, and he called cheerily to Joey.

"Come along, pup," he said.  "Let us sample Dr. Christobal's cookery. You have shared my watch;
now you shall share my breakfast.  We have both earned it."

It was in his mind to knock loudly on Elsie's door and awaken her; therefore he was dimly conscious
of a feeling of disappointment when he saw her, in company with Christobal, leaning over the
rail of the promenade deck, and evidently discussing the weird beauty of the scene spread before
her wondering eyes.

The ship was now so sheltered by the shoulder of the southern cape that the keen breeze yet
rushing in from the sea passed hundreds of feet above her masts.  There was nothing more than
a tidal swell on the surface of the water, in which the heavy-laden vessel rested as in a dock.
In the new and extraordinary quietude the light thud of the donkey-engine sounded with a strange
distinctness, and Elsie and her companion heard Courtenay's approaching footsteps almost as
soon as he gained the deck.

Instantly she ran towards him, with hands out-stretched.

"Let me be the first to congratulate you," she cried, her cheeks mantling with a rush of color
and her lips quivering with excitement. "How wonderful of you to bring the ship through all
those awful reefs and things!  No; you must not say you have done nothing marvelous.  Dr. Christobal
has told me everything.  Next to Providence, Captain Courtenay, we owe our lives to you."

Courtenay felt it would hurt her were he to smile at her earnestness. But he did say:

"Surely it is not so very remarkable that I should do my best to safeguard the ship and such
of her passengers and crew as survive last night's ordeal."

"I know that quite well.  Even I would have striven to help when my life was at stake.  But
the really wonderful thing is that you should have guessed an unknown track in the dark; that
you should actually be able to guide a helpless ship through waters so full of dangers that
it would be folly to venture in their midst in broad daylight and with full steam-power."

Then Courtenay took off his sou'wester, and bowed.

"I had no idea I had such expert critics on board.  Is it you, Christobal, who has followed
the ship's course so closely?"

"Not I, my dear fellow.  Miss Maxwell is only saying what I feel, indeed, but could not have
expressed as admirably.  Our silent friend, Tollemache, is the man who observes.  I was so
amazed when I came on deck half an hour ago that I sought him out, and he told me something
of the night's later happenings.  So I took the liberty of arousing Miss Maxwell from a very
sound sleep, but we thought it best not to disturb you by appearing on the bridge until you
had done everything you had planned."

"I shall never understand how I came to fall asleep," said Elsie.  "I remember feeling very
tired; I sat down for a moment, and that ended it.  The next thing I heard was a rapping on
my door, and Dr. Christobal's voice bidding me hurry if I would see the entrance to the harbor."

The two men exchanged glances.  Courtenay laughed, so pleasantly that it was good to hear.

"Yet there was I up aloft, maneuvering the ship in the firm faith that Dr. Christobal was busy
in the cook's galley," said he.

"Ah, we have news for you," cried Elsie.  "One of the poor fellows who was knocked on the head
during that terrible fight for the boats was the master cook himself.  He is better now, and
breakfast can be ready in five minutes.  I'll go and tell him."

She ran off, and Joey scampered by her side, for he knew quite well where the kitchen lay.

"Bromide is useful at times," murmured Christobal, watching Elsie until she had disappeared.
Then he turned to Courtenay.

"I suppose you have seen nothing of the boats?"

"No sign whatever.  And I could hardly have missed them if they were here.  They may have escaped,
but I doubt it.  The sea ran very high for a time, and the Kansas scraped past so many reefs
that it was almost impossible for each of the three boats to have done the same."

"Even if one or more of them reached land, there is small likelihood that they would turn up
in this particular bay?"

"That is true, especially if they used their sails.  The Chileans who got away in the life-boats
would know sufficient of the coast to endeavor to make a northerly course, while my parting
instructions to Malcolm were to keep to the north all the time."

"I wish now that poor Isobel Baring and the others had not left us," said Christobal sadly.

Courtenay was about to say something, but checked himself.  He was not blind to the aspect
of affairs which Tollemache had summarized so pithily.  It might yet be that those who remained
had more to endure. Then Elsie summoned them to breakfast, which was served on deck, as the
saloon had been temporarily converted into a hospital.

Before sitting down, Courtenay paid a brief visit to Mr. Boyle. Christobal told him not to
allow the wounded man to talk too much, complete rest for a few hours being essential.  But
Boyle's pallid face lit up so brightly when the captain stood by his side that it was hard
not to indulge him to some extent.

"Huh," he said, his gruff voice strong as ever.  "Christobal was not humbugging me when he
assured me you were all right.  Where are we?"

"In a small bay on the east of Hanover Island.  I have not taken any observations yet, and
there is no hurry, old chap.  You 'll be out and about long before we move again."

"Huh.  D'ye think so?  I know the beggar who knifed me.  I 'll take it out of him when I see him."

"You are better off than he, Boyle.  Unless he is here with you, I guess he is rolling on the
floor of the Pacific by this time."

Boyle tried to turn and survey his fellow-sufferers; there was the fire of battle in his eye.
Courtenay restrained him with a laugh.

"A nice thing I am doing," he cried, "permitting you to talk, and getting you excited.  I believe
you would punch the scoundrel now if he were in the next berth.  You must lie quiet, old man;
doctor's orders; he says you 're on the royal road if you keep on the easy list for a day or so."'

Boyle smiled, and closed his eyes.

"I heard the anchors go, and then I knew that all was well.  You 're the luckiest skipper afloat.
Huh, the bloomin' Kansas was lost not once but twenty times."

"Are you in pain, Boyle?" asked Courtenay, placing a gentle hand on his friend's forehead.

"Not much.  More stiff than sore.  It was a knock-out blow of its kind. I can just recall you
hauling me out of the scrimmage, and--"

"It will be your turn to do as much for me next time.  Try to go to sleep; we'll have you on
deck tomorrow."

Courtenay noticed that there were only four other sufferers in the saloon: Three were firemen
injured by the explosion.  He had a pleasant word for each of them.  The fourth was a sailor,
either asleep or unconscious, and Courtenay thought he recognized a severe bruise on the man's
left temple where the butt of his revolver had struck hard.

When he returned on deck he learned that two other members of the crew, in addition to the
cook, were able to work.  Walker had set one to clear up the stokehold; his companion, a fireman,
had relieved Mr. Tollemache.  Indeed, the latter had gone to his cabin, and was the last to
arrive at the feast, finally putting in an appearance in a new suit and spotless linen.

Christobal protested loudly.

"I thought this was to be a workers' meal," he said.  "Tollemache has stolen a march on us.
He is quite a Bond-street lounger in appearance."

"Dirty job, stoking," said Tollemache.

"I seem to have been the only lazy person on board during the night," cried Elsie.

"Do you know what time it is?" asked Courtenay.

"No; about ten o'clock, I fancy."

"It is not yet half-past four."

The blue eyes opened wide.  "Are you in earnest?" she demanded.

He showed her his watch.  Then she perceived that the sun had not yet risen high enough to
illumine the wooded crest of the opposite cliff. The snow-clad hills, the blue glaciers, the
wonderful clearness of atmosphere, led her to believe that the day was much more advanced.
Land and sea shone in a strange crystal light.  None could tell whence it came.  It seemed
to her, in that solemn hour, to be the reflection of heaven itself.  By quick transition, her
thoughts flew back to the previous night.  Scarce four hours had elapsed since she had waited
in the captain's cabin, amidst the drenching spray and tearing wind, while he took Isobel,
and Mrs. Somerville, and the shrieking maid to the boat.  The corners of her mouth drooped
and tears trembled on her eyelashes.  She sought furtively for a handkerchief.  Knowing exactly
what troubled her, Courtenay turned to Christobal.

"This island ought to be inhabited," he said.  "Can you tell me what sort of Indians one finds
in this locality?"

Christobal frowned perplexedly.  During many previous voyages to Europe he had invariably traveled
on the mail steamers of smaller draft which use the sheltered sea canal formed by the Smyth,
Sarmiento, and Messier channels, the protected water-way running for hundreds of miles to the
north from the western end of the Straits of Tierra del Fuego, and, in some of its aspects,
reminding sailors of the Clyde and the Caledonian Canal.

"I fear I do not know much about them," he said.  "Behind those hills there one sees a few
Canoe Indians; I have heard that they are somewhat lower in the social scale than the aborigines
of Australia."

"Are they?" said Courtenay.  He looked Christobal straight in the eyes, and the doctor returned
his gaze as steadily.

"That is their repute.  They live mostly on shellfish.  They do not congregate in communities.
A few families keep together, and move constantly from place to place.  They have a quaint
belief that if they remain on a camping-ground more than a night or two the devil will stick
his head out of the ground and bite them.  Obviously, the real devil that plagues them is the
continuous wandering demanded by their search for food."

Christobal would have aired such a scrap of interesting knowledge at the foot of the scaffold,
and expected the executioner to listen attentively.

"They are called the Alaculof.  They use bows and arrows, with heads chipped out of stone or
bottle-glass," put in Tollemache.

"Oh, you have been in these parts before?" cried Courtenay, regarding his compatriot with some
interest, while the Spaniard surveyed his rival doubtfully.

"Yes--was on the Emu--wrecked in Cockburn Channel."

Now, the story of the Emu is one of those fierce tragedies which the sea first puts on the
stage of life with dire skill, and then proceeds to destroy the slightest vestige of their
brief existence.  But such things leave abiding memories in men's souls, and Courtenay had
heard how twenty-seven survivors, out of a muster-roll of thirty who escaped from the wreck,
had been shot down by Indians ambushed in the forest. Elsie, whose tears were dispelled by
the doctor's amusing summary of the Canoe Indians' theological views, was listening to the
conversation, so the captain did not carry it further, contenting himself with the remark:

"That will be useful, if we are compelled to go ashore.  You will have some acquaintance with
the ways of our hosts."

Tollemache, having nothing to say, was not given to the use of unnecessary words.  Elsie was
conscious of a certain constraint in their talk.

"Please don't mind me," she said quietly.  "I know all about the loss of the Emu.  If we fall
into the hands of the Alaculof tribe, we shall be not only killed but eaten."

She was pouring out a second cup of tea for Walker when she made this remarkable statement.
Her eyes were intent on exact quantities of tea, milk, and sugar, and she passed the cup to
the engineer with a smile. Each of the men admired her coolness, but Tollemache, who had been
quietly scrutinizing the nearer hills, gave painful emphasis to this gruesome topic by exclaiming:

"There they are now: smoke signals."

Sure enough, thin columns of smoke were rising from several points on the land.  It could not
be doubted that these were caused by human agency.  They were not visible when the party sat
down to breakfast. The appearance of the ship was their obvious explanation, but not a canoe
or a solitary figure could be seen, though Courtenay and others, at various times during the
day, searched every part of the neighboring shore with field glasses and powerful telescopes.

After an all too brief burst of sunshine, the Land of Storms again justified its name.  Giant
clouds came rolling in from seaward.  The mountains were lost in mist; the glaciers became
sullen, rock-strewn masses of white-brown ice; the fresh greenery of the forests faded into
somber belts of blackness.  Though it was high summer in this desolate region, heavy showers
of hail and sleet alternated with drenching rain. At low-water, though the Kansas floated securely
in a depth of twenty fathoms, a yellow current sweeping past her starboard quarter showed how
accurately Courtenay had read the tokens of the inlet.  Many a swollen torrent, and, perhaps,
one or two fair-sized streams at the head of the bay, contributed this flood of fresh water.

And, with the evening tide, there were not wanting indications that the gale without had developed
a new fury.  A solitary albatross, driven landward by stress of weather, rode in vast circles
above the ship. There was no wealth of bird life in that place of gloom.  Though fitted to
rear untold millions of gulls and other sea birds, this secluded nook was almost deserted;
generations of men had devoured all the eggs they could lay hands on.

To Elsie and the doctor were entrusted the daylight watch on deck and the care of the sick.
For the latter there was not much to be done. The cook undertook to feed them, and Frascuelo,
the wounded stevedore who had been discovered in a state of collapse, soon revived, and was
practically able to look after himself.  The others, under Walker's directions, were hard at
work in the engine-room and stoke-hold, for there alone lay the chance of ultimate escape.

The two sentinels conversed but little.  The outer war of the elements was disturbing, and
Christobal, though unfailingly optimistic in his speech, was nevertheless a prey to dark forebodings.
Once, they were startled by the fall of an avalanche, which thundered down a mountain side
on the farther shore, and tore a great gap in the belt of trees until it crashed into the water.
It sent a four-foot wave across the bay, and the Kansas rocked so violently that the men toiling
below raced up on deck to ascertain the cause of the disturbance.

This was the only exciting incident of a day that seemed to be unending.  Elsie, worn out by
the strain of the preceding twenty-four hours, and, notwithstanding her brief sleep in the
morning, thoroughly exhausted for want of rest, was persuaded to retire early to her cabin.
She lay down almost fully dressed.  Somehow, it was impossible to think of a state of unpreparedness
for any emergency.

She was soon sound asleep.  She awoke with a start, with all her nerves a-quiver.  Joey was
tearing along the deck, barking furiously.  She heard two men run past her door with ominous
haste.  Then, after a heart-breaking pause, there was some shooting.  Some one, she thought
it was Courtenay, roared down the saloon companion:

"On deck, all hands, to repel boarders!"

With a confused rush, men mounted the stairs and raced forward.  She knew that nearly all of
those not on watch were sleeping with the injured men in the saloon, and now she understood
the reason.  The ship was being attacked by Indians, and not altogether unexpectedly.  The
savages had stolen alongside in their canoes under the cloak of night. Perhaps they were already
on board in overwhelming numbers.  Poor girl, she murmured a prayer while she hurriedly drew
on her boots and ulster.

There seemed to be no end to the evils which assailed the Kansas, and she dreaded this new
terror more than the mad fury of the seas.  But, if the men were fighting for their lives and
her's, she must help, too. That was clear.  She had a weapon, a loaded revolver, which she
had picked up from beneath a boat's tarpaulin lying on the spar deck.  She opened her door
and peered out.  She could not see any one, and the rattle of a hail-storm overhead effectually
dulled any other noise. But several shots fired again in the fore part of the ship were audible
above the din of the pelting hail.  So she ran that way, with the fine courage of one who fears
yet goes on, and her eyes pierced the shadows with a tense despair in them.  For what could
so few men do against the unseen watchers who sent up the thirty-four smoke columns she had
counted?

Ah, trust a woman to read the unspoken thought!  Courtenay and Christobal and Tollemache need
not have striven to couch their warnings in ambiguous words.  Elsie could have told them all
that was left unsaid at breakfast.  The ship had fought her own enemies; now the human beings
she had saved must defend themselves from a foe against whom the ship was helpless.

CHAPTER IX

A PROFESSOR OF WITCHCRAFT

Quickly as Elsie had reached the deck, the warlike sounds which disturbed her rest had ceased.
Save for the footsteps of men whom she could not see, the prevalent noises were caused only
by wind and sleet. While she was hurrying forward as rapidly as the darkness permitted, the
lights were switched on with a suddenness that made her gasp.  The dog began to bark again,
but it was easy to distinguish his sharp yelps of excitement and defiance from the earlier
notes of alarmed suspicion. In fact, Joey himself was the first to discover the stealthy approach
of the Indians.  Courtenay and Tollemache, who took the middle watch, from midnight to 4 A.M.,
had failed to note the presence of several canoes on the ink-black surface of the bay until
the dog warned them by growling, and ruffling the bristles on his back.  The night was pitch
dark; the rising moon was not only hidden by the hills of the island, but frequent storms of
rain and hail rendered it impossible while they raged to see or hear beyond the distance of
a few feet.  In all probability, as the canoes bore down from windward, Joey had scented them.
He also gave the highly important information as to the quarter from which attack might be
expected.  Three men, at least, had gained the deck, but the prompt use of a revolver had caused
them to retreat as silently and speedily as they had appeared.  That was all.  There was no
actual fight.  The phantoms vanished as silently as they came. The only external lights on
the ship were the masthead and sidelights, hoisted by Courtenay to reveal the steamer's whereabouts
in case one of the boats chanced to be driven into the bay during the dark hours. There was
an electric lamp turned on in the donkey-engine room, and another in the main saloon, but means
were taken to exclude them from showing without; if the Indians meant to be actively hostile,
lights on board would be more helpful to the assailants than to the assailed.

When the captain and Tollemache followed Joey's lead, they discerned three demoniac figures,
vaguely outlined by the ruddy glare of the port light, in the very act of climbing the rails.
They fired instantly, and the naked forms vanished; both men thought they heard the splashing
caused by the leaping or falling of the Indians into the sea.  By the same subdued radiance
Courtenay made out the top of a pole or mast sticking up close to the ship's side.  He leaned
over, fired a couple of shots downwards at random, seized the pole, and lashed it to a stanchion
with a loose rope end, a remnant of one of the awnings.  A small craft, even an Indian canoe,
would be most useful, and its capture might tend to scare the attackers.

Telling Tollemache to mount guard, he raced back to the saloon hatch and summoned assistance.
The others searched the ship in small detachments, but the Indians were gone; it was manifest
that none beyond those driven off at the first onset had secured a footing on deck.  Then,
taking the risk of being shot at, Courtenay ordered the lights to be turned on, and the first
person he saw clearly was Elsie. He was almost genuinely angry with her.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded.

She was learning not to fear his brusque ways.  He was no carpet knight, and men who carry
their lives in their hands do not pick and choose their words.

"I thought you were in danger, so I came to help," she said calmly.

"You must go back to your cabin at once."

"Why?  Of what avail is the safety of my cabin if you are killed?"

A woman's logic is apt to be irritating when one expects a flight of arrows, or, it may be,
a gunshot, out of the blackness a few feet away.

"For goodness' sake, stand here, then," he cried, seizing her arm, and compelling her to shelter
behind the heavy molding which carried the bridge.

She did not object to his roughness.  In the midst of actual peril, impressions are apt to
be cameo-cut in their preciseness, and she liked him all the more because he treated her quite
roughly.  Of course, the mere presence of a woman at such a time was a hindrance.  But she
was determined not to return to her stateroom, and, indeed, her obstinacy was reasonable enough,
seeing the condition of affairs on board the Kansas.

The captain quitted her for a moment in order to dispatch a Chilean sailor for a lantern and
a long cord.  He wished to investigate the captured canoe.

Christobal, who had made the round of the promenade deck, came up.

"Oh, were you here, too?" he asked, on seeing the girl.

"I am here, if that is what you mean," she cried.  "I heard Joey barking, and the shots that
followed.  Naturally, I wished to find out what had happened."

"Sorry.  I imagined you were sleepless, like myself, and had joined Courtenay during his watch.
That explanation must have sufficed.  In any case, we have other things to trouble us at present."

Elsie had never before heard the Spaniard speaking so offhandedly.  She gave small heed to
his petulance; aroused from sound slumber by the alarm of an Indian attack--thrilled by the
horror of the thought that she might fall into the clutches of the callous man-apes which infest
the islands of southwest America--she was in no mood to disentangle subtleties of speech.

"Do you think they have left us?" she murmured, shrinking nearer to the iron shield which Courtenay
seemed to think would protect her.

"Personally, I have seen no reason whatever for such a hubbub," was the flippant answer.

It was evident that Dr. Christobal was annoyed.  Notwithstanding his conventional polish, he
was not a man to conceal his feelings when deeply stirred.  Yet Elsie failed to catch his intent,
other than that he was adopting his usual nonchalant tone.

"But something must have caused Captain Courtenay and Mr. Tollemache to fire their revolvers
so frequently.  And, if they were mistaken, the dog would not have shared their error.  Besides,
one of the canoes did not get away.  See!  Its mast is fastened there."

"Ah!  I had forgotten Tollemache.  He was selected to join the captain's watch, of course."

"Yes, I was present when the watches were formed.  Have you seen Mr. Tollemache?  Is he safe?"

"He is among those making the round of the ship.  I hope you will forgive me."

"Forgive you!  What have you done that calls for forgiveness?"

"There are errors of speech which equal those of conduct, Miss Maxwell."

"Oh, what nonsense--at one in the morning--when we are threatened by savages!"

Christobal was relieved that she took this view of his abrupt utterances.  He thought the incident
was ended.  He was mistaken; Elsie was able to recall each word subsequently.  At the moment
she was recording impressions with uncomprehending accuracy, but her mind was quite incapable
of analyzing them; that would come later.

The lantern was brought.  Courtenay stood on the lowermost rail, and carefully paid out a rope
to which the light was slung.  He was far too brave a man to take undue risks.  He was ready
to shoot instantly if need be, and, by his instructions, Tollemache and Walker kept watch as
best they could in case other canoes were lying close to the ship.

Any doubt in this regard was dispelled in a singular manner.  The flickering rays of the lantern
had barely revealed the primitive craft lying alongside when a voice came from the depths,
crying in broken Spanish:

"Don't shoot, señors--spare me, for the love of heaven!  I am a white man from Argentina."

Christobal and Elsie alone understood the exact significance of the words.  Courtenay, of course,
knew what language was being spoken, and it was easy to guess the nature of the appeal.  But
the lantern showed that the canoe was empty.  In the center lay the Fuegian fire, its embers
covered with a small hide.  The pole, fastened to a cross-piece in the thwarts, was not a mast,
but had evidently been shipped in order to give speedy access to the deck by climbing.

Then Courtenay caught sight of two hands clinging to the stern of the canoe.  He swung the
lantern in that direction, and an extraordinary, and even an affrighting, object became visible.
A caricature of a human head was raised slightly above the level of the water.  It was crowned
by a shock of coarse, black, knotted hair, tied back from the brows by a fillet of white feathers.
An intensely black face, crossed by two bars of red and white pigment, reaching from ear to
ear, and covering eyelids, nose, and lips, was upturned to the watchers from the deck.  The
colors were vivid enough, notwithstanding the sheets of rain which blew in gusts against the
ship's side, dimming the dull light of a storm-proof lamp, to convey a most uncanny effect;
nor did Courtenay remove either his eyes or the revolver while he said to Christobal:

"Ask him who he is, and what he wants."

The answer was intelligible enough.

"I am a miner from Argentina.  I have been among these Indians five years.  When their attack
failed, I thought there was a chance of escape.  For pity's sake, señor, help me instantly,
or I shall die from the cold."

"Have the Indians gone?" asked Christobal.

"Yes.  They thought to surprise you.  When they come again it will be by daylight, as they
are afraid of the dark.  But be quick, I implore you.  My hands are numb."

There was no resisting the man's appeal.  A rope ladder was lowered, and a Chilean sailor went
down in obedience to the captain's order, though he disliked the job, and crossed himself before
descending.  He passed a rope under the fugitive's armpits, and, with aid from the deck, hoisted
him aboard.  The unfortunate miner gave proof of his wretched state by promptly collapsing
in a faint, with a sigh of "Madre de Dios!"

His only garments were a species of waistcoat and rough trousers of untanned guanaco hide.
The white skin of his breast and legs, though darkened by exposure, showed that he had told
the truth as to his descent, notwithstanding the amazing daubs on his face.  His hair, stiffened
with black grease, stood out all around his head, and the same oily composition had been used
to blacken his forehead, neck, and hands.

Some brandy and hot water, combined with the warmth of the saloon, soon revived him.  He ate
a quantity of bread with the eagerness of a man suffering from starvation; but he could not
endure the heated atmosphere, although the temperature was barely sufficient to guard the injured
occupants from the outer cold.  When offered an overcoat, he refused it at first, saying:

"I do not need so much clothing.  It will make me ill.  I only felt cold in the water because
it is mostly melted ice."

He was so grateful to his rescuers, however, that he took the garment to oblige them when he
saw they were incredulous.  Christobal brought him to the chart-house, where most of the others
were assembled, and there questioned him.

It was a most astonishing story which Francisco Suarez, gold-miner and prospector, laid before
an exceedingly attentive audience.  As the man spoke, so did he recover the freer usage of
a civilized tongue.  At first his words had a hoarse, guttural sound, but Dr. Christobal's
questions seemed to awaken dormant memories, and every one noticed, not least those who had
small knowledge of Spanish, that he had practically recovered command of the language at the
end of half an hour.

And this was what he told them.  He, with three partners and a few Indians from the Pampas,
had set out on a gold-prospecting expedition on the head waters of the Gallegos River.  They
were disappointed in their search until they crossed the Cordillera, and sighted the gloomy
shores of Last Hope Inlet, leading into Smyth Channel.  They there found alluvial sand and
gold-bearing quartz, yielding but poor results. Unfortunately, some natives assured them that
the metal they sought abounded in Hanover Island.  They obtained canoes, voyaged down the long
inlet, crossed the straits, and struck inland towards the unknown mountains beyond the swamps
of Ellen Bay.

After enduring all the hardships entailed by life in such a wild country, they blundered into
a gully where a brief analysis of the detritus gave a result per ton which was not to be measured
by ounces but by pounds.

"Virgin!  What a place that was!" exclaimed Suarez, his dark eyes sparkling even yet with the
recollection of it.  "In one day we secured more gold than we could carry.  We threw away food
to make room for it, and then threw away gold to secure the food again.  We called it the Golden
Valley.  When weary of digging, we would spin coins to see who drew corner lots in the town
we had mapped out on a level piece of land."

White men and Indians alike caught the fever.  They accumulated a useless hoard, having no
means of transport other than their own backs, and then, all precautions being relaxed, the
nomad Indians, whom they despised, rushed the camp when they were sleeping.  They were nearly
all killed by stones shot from slings.  Suarez was only stunned, and he and a Spaniard, with
two Indians, were reserved for future slaughter.

"The others were eaten," he said, "and their bones were used for making fires.  I saw my friend,
Giacomo, felled like a bullock, and the Indians as well.  By chance, I was the last.  I had
no hope of escape. I was too downcast even to make a fight of it, when, at the eleventh hour,
the mad idea seized me that I might please and astonish my captors by performing a few sleight-of-hand
tricks.  I began by throwing stones in the air, pretending to swallow them and causing them
to disappear otherwise, but finding them again in the heel of my boot or hidden beneath any
object which happened to be near.  When the Indians saw what I was doing, they gathered in
a circle.  I ate some fire, and took a small toad out of a woman's ear.  Dios!  How they gaped.
They had never seen the like.  All the tribe was summoned to watch me."

Then the poor fellow began to cry.

"Holy Mother!  Think of me playing the fool before those brutes!  I became their medicine man.
I fought and killed my only rival, and, since then, I have doctored a few of the chief men
among them, so they took me into the tribe, and always managed to procure me such food as I
could eat.  They gave me roots and dried meat when they themselves were living on putrid blubber,
or worse, because they kill all the old women as soon as famine threatens.  The women are devoured
long before the dogs; dogs catch otters, but old women cannot.  In winter, when a long storm
renders it impossible to obtain shell-fish, any woman who is feeble will steal off and hide
in the mountains.  But the men track her and bring her back.  They hold her over the smoke
of a fire until she is choked.  Ah!  God in heaven!  I have seen such sights during those five
years!"

Elsie, of course, understood all of this.  When Christobal put it into literal English, Courtenay
looked at her.  She smiled at his unspoken thought.

"I am already aware of most of what he is telling us," she said.  "It is very dreadful that
such people should exist, but one does not fall in a faint merely because they cumber the earth.
Perhaps you will not send me away next time, if they try to board the ship again.  I can use
a revolver quite well enough to count as one for the defense."

"You are henceforth enrolled as maid-at-arms, Miss Maxwell," said the captain, lightly.  He
was by no means surprised at the coolness she displayed in the face of the new terror.  She
had given so many proofs of her natural courage that it must be equal to even so affrighting
a test as the near presence of the Alaculof Indians.  But he broke in on the Spaniard's recital
with a question of direct interest.

"Ask him, Christobal, why he said those devils would come again by daylight."

"Because they have guns, and can use them," was the appalling answer given by Suarez.  "They
secured the rifles belonging to my party, and one of them, who had often seen ship's officers
shooting wild geese, understood the method of loading and aiming.  They will not waste the
cartridges on game, but keep them for tribal warfare, and they think a gun cannot shoot in
the dark.  To-night they only attempted a surprise, and made off the moment they were discovered.
To-morrow, or next day, they will swarm round the ship in hundreds, and fire at us with rifles,
bows, and slings.  They do most harm with the slings and arrows, as they hold the gun away
from the shoulder, but they can cast a heavy pebble from a sling quite as far and almost as
straight as a revolver can shoot."

"How do they know the ship will not sail at once?" demanded Courtenay.

Suarez laughed hysterically, with the mirth which is akin to tears, when the query was explained
to him.  He looked bizarre enough under ordinary conditions, but laughter converted him into
a fair semblance of one of those blood-curdling demons which a Japanese artist loves to depict.
Evidently, he depended on make-up to supplement his powers as a conjurer.

"It is as much as a canoe can manage in fine weather to reach the island out there, which they
call Seal Island," he cried, pointing towards the locality of White Horse Island.  "Even the
Indians were astonished to see so big a ship anchored here safely.  They have watched plenty
of wrecks outside, and hardly anything comes ashore.  At any rate, they are quite sure you
cannot go back."

It would be idle to deny that the Spaniard's words sent a chill of apprehension down the spine
of some of those present; but the captain said quietly:

"Where a ship is concerned, if she can enter on the flood she can go out on the ebb.  How came
you to escape to-night?"

Tears stood again in Suarez's eyes as he replied:

"When I heard their plan, I imagined they would be driven off, provided a watch were kept.
I resolved to risk all in the attempt to reach the company of civilized men once more.  I do
not care what the outcome may be.  If I can help you to overcome them I am ready to do so;
if not, I will die by your side.  To-night I followed in a canoe unseen.  When I heard the
shooting, I leaped overboard and swam to the ship.  It was lucky for me some one seized the
canoe which I found there.  The men in her had to swim to other canoes, and two were wounded,
I heard them say; this caused some confusion, and I had something to grasp when I reached the
ship; otherwise I must have been drowned, as the water was very cold."

"Yet you refused an overcoat a little while ago," interjected Christobal.

"Ah, yes.  For many years I have lived altogether in Indian fashion. My skin is hard.  Wind
or rain cannot harm me.  But melted ice mixed with salt water drives even the seals out to sea."

"Can you speak the Alaculof language?"

"Is that what you call them?  Their own name for the tribe is 'The Feathered People,' because
all their chief men and heads of families wear these things," and he touched his head-dress.
"Yes, I know nearly all their words.  They don't use a great many.  One word may have several
meanings, according to the pitch of the voice."

"They captured you on the Smyth Channel side of the island.  Have they deserted it?  Why are
they on this side now?" asked Courtenay.

"I believe they brought me here at first because they wished to keep me on account of my magic,
and they knew I would endeavor to escape to a passing ship.  We came over the mountains by
a terrible road.  I have been told that landslips and avalanches have closed the pass ever
since.  I do not know whether that is true or not, but if I had tried to get away in that direction
they would have caught me in a few hours. No man can elude them.  They can see twice as far
as any European, and they are wonderful trackers."

Suddenly his voice failed him.  Though the words came fluently, his long-disused vocal chords
were unequal to the strain of measured speech.  He asked hoarsely for some hot water.  When
Courtenay next came across him in the saloon he was asleep, and changed so greatly by the removal
of pigments from his face that it was difficult to regard him as the same being.

His story was unquestionably true.  Tollemache, who had fought an offshoot tribe of these same
Indians, Christobal, who vouched for the Argentine accent, and Elsie, who seemed to have read
such rare books of travel as dealt with that little known part of the world, bore out the reasonableness
of his statements.  The only individual on board who regarded him with suspicion was Joey,
and even Joey was satisfied when Suarez had washed himself.

It was daylight again, a dawn of dense mist, without wind or hail, ere any member of the ship's
company thought of sleep.  Then Elsie went to her cabin and dreamed of a river of molten gold,
down which she was compelled to sail in a cockle-shell boat, while fantastic monsters swam
round, and eyed her suspiciously.

When, at last, she awoke after a few hours of less exciting slumber, she came out on deck to
find the sun shining on a fairy-land of green and blue and diamond white, with gaunt gray rocks
and groves of copper beeches to frame the picture.  There was no pillar of smoke on the lower
hills to bear silent testimony to the presence of the Indians; but the canoe lying alongside
told her that the previous night's events were no part of her dreams, and a man whom she did
not recognize--a man with closely cropped gray hair and a deeply lined, weather-tanned face,
from which a pair of sunken, flashing eyes looked kindly at her--said in Spanish:

"Good morning, señorita.  I hope I did not startle you when I came aboard.  And I said things
I should not have said in the presence of a lady.  But believe me, señorita, I was drunk with
delight."

CHAPTER X

"MISSING AT LLOYD'S"

Elsie had slept long and soundly: she found herself in a new world of sunshine and calm.  When
she looked over the side to examine the crudely fashioned canoe, she was astonished by the
limpid purity of the water.  She could see white pebbles and vegetation at a vast depth.  It
seemed to be impossible that a few hours should have worked such a change, but Suarez assured
her that the streams which tumbled down the precipitous gorges of the hills ran clear quickly
after rain, owing to the sifting of the surface drainage by the phenomenal tree-growth.

"Wherever timber can lodge on the hillsides," he told her, "fallen trunks lie in layers of
fifteen or twenty feet.  They rot there, and young saplings push their way through to the light
and air, while creepers bind them in an impenetrable mass; in many places small trees and shrubs
of dense foliage take root amidst the decaying stumps beneath, so that even the Indians cannot
pass from one point to another, but are compelled to climb the rocky watercourses or follow
the slopes of glaciers.  When you see what appears to be a smooth green space above the lower
brown-colored belt of copper beech, that is not a moss-covered stretch of open land, but the
closely packed tops of young trees, where a new tract has been bared by an avalanche."

She was in no mood this morning to assimilate the marvels of Hanover Island.  Her brain had
been cleared, restored to the normal, by refreshing sleep.  With a more active perception of
the curious difficulties which beset the Kansas came a feeling akin to despair. The brightness
of nature served rather to convert the ship into a prison.  Storm and stress, whether of the
elements or of the less candid foes who lurked unseen on the neighboring shores, made the Kansas
a veritable fortress, a steel refuge seemingly impregnable. But the knowledge of the vessel's
helplessness, and of the equally desperate hazard which beset her inmates, was rendered only
more poignant by the smiling aspect of land and sea.

Elsie was not a philosopher.  She was just a healthy, clean-minded Englishwoman, imbued with
a love of art for art's sake, a girl whose wholesome, courageous temperament probably unfitted
her to achieve distinction in the artistic career which she had mapped out for herself.  So
the super-Alpine glories surrounding that inland sea, and the prismatic hues flashing from
many a glacier and rainbow of cataract mist, left her unmoved, solely because the rough-hewn
Indian craft bobbing by the side of the great ship called to mind the extraordinary conditions
under which she and all on board existed.

But she was hungry, and that was a saving sign.  She guessed that many of the men, after mounting
watch until broad daylight, were asleep. Others were at work below, as was testified by a subdued
sound of hammering, with the sharp clink of metal against metal.  Walker was tinkering at the
engines.  With him, in all likelihood, were the captain and Tollemache.  She and Suarez were
the drones of the ship, and Suarez, poor fellow, had earned an idle hour if only on account
of the scrubbing he had given himself to wash away the tokens of five years of slavery.

Before going in search of the cook, she walked a few steps towards the bridge.  At the top
of the companion she saw Joey, sitting disconsolately on his tail, a sure indication that Courtenay
was occupied in depths approachable only by steep iron ladders whither the dog could not follow.

She whistled softly to her little friend, knowing that Christobal, and perhaps Mr. Boyle, would
be on the bridge, keeping the lookout, and she was not inclined for talk at the moment.  The
doctor would have understood at once that the girl was below par, owing to the strain of the
preceding days, and the lethargic rest which exhaustion had imposed on her.  Yet, there are
times when science does not satisfy. . . .

But Joey, who recked naught of philosophy, and to whom the alarms and excursions of fights
on deck came as a touch of mother earth to the sole of Antaeos--Joey, then, sprang down the
stairs, barking joyously, and leaped into her outstretched arms.

He honored no other person on board, except his master, with such extravagant friendship, and,
as the girl carried him aft to the cook's galley, she asked herself why the dog had taken such
a liking to her.

She blushed a little as she thought:

"It may be that I resemble the lady whom Captain Courtenay is going to marry.  I wonder why
he did not show us her photograph that day when Isobel and I visited his cabin and looked at
the pictures of his mother and sister.  I should like to see her, but how can I manage it?
I simply dare not tell him I read that scrap of a letter, even by chance."

The dog, apparently, found her an excellent substitute; he licked her ear contentedly.  That
tickled her, and she laughed.

"I fear you are a fickle lover, Joey," she said aloud.  "But you will simply be compelled to
remain constant to me while we are in this horrid place, and that may be for the remainder
of our lives, dear."

Joey tried to lick her again to show that he didn't care.  What could any reasonable dog want
more than fine weather, enough to eat, and the prospect of an occasional scrimmage?

When Elsie did ultimately climb to the chart-house, the fit of despondency had fled.  Boyle
was there, having been carried up in a deck chair early in the day.  He was alone.

"Huh!" he growled pleasantly.  "You 're lookin' as bright as a new pin, Miss Maxwell.  Now,
if I had been among the pirates, I'd have taken you with me."

"Do you mean to say that you are actually paying me compliments?" said she.

"Am I?  Huh; didn't mean to.  I'm an old married man.  But pirates, especially Spanish ones,
are supposed to be very handy with knives and other fellows' girls."

"You see they did not consider me a prize."

"The rascals!  Good job you missed that boat.  Christobal has been tellin' me all about it.
They've gone under."

"Do you really think so?"

"Can't see any chance for them, Miss Maxwell."

"But we are almost as badly situated here?"

"Huh, not a bit of it.  Lucky chap, Courtenay.  He couldn't lose a ship if he tried.  She 'd
follow him 'cross country like that pup.  Look at me: lost three, all brand new from the builders.
One foundered, one burnt, an' one stuck on the Goodwins.  I'm careful, steady as any man can
be, but no owner would trust me with a ship now, unless she was a back number, an' over-insured.
Even then my luck would follow me.  I 'd bring that sort of crazy old tub through the Northwest
passage.  So I'm first mate, an' first mate I'll remain till my ticket gives out."

A good deal of this was Greek to Elsie.  But she knew that Boyle was a man of curt speech,
unless deck hands required the stimulus of a tongue lashing.  Such a string of connected sentences
was a rare occurrence. It argued that the "chief" was not unwilling to indulge in reminiscence.

"Why do you consider Captain Courtenay so fortunate?" she asked, flushing somewhat at the guile
which lay behind the question.

"Huh," snorted Boyle, amazed that even a slip of a girl should need informing on so obvious
a fact.  "Don't you call it luck to be given command of a ship like the Kansas at his age?
An' to get five hundred pounds an' a gold chronometer because the skipper of the Florida was
too full to hold on to the bridge?  You mark my words. He'll be made commodore of the fleet
after he pulls the Kansas out of this mess."

"What happened to the Florida?"

"Haven't you heard that yarn?  Bless my soul, she was our crack ship. She broke her shaft in
a gale, an' the skipper was washed overboard--you always tell lies about deaders, you know--so
A. C. just waded in an' saved the whole outfit, passengers an' all."

"But he has had reverses, too.  He was in the Royal Navy, I have been told, and he had to give
it up because his people--"

"More luck.  The Royal Navy!  Huh, all gold braid, an' buy your own vittals.  There's no money
in that game."

"Money is not everything in the world.  A man's career may be more to him than the mere monetary
aspect of it."

"If ever you meet my missus, you 'll hear the other side of the question, Miss Maxwell.  S'posin'
Courtenay was in the Navy, an' had a wife an' family to keep.  Could he do it on his pay? 
Not he.  As it is, he's sure to marry a girl with a pile, and wind up a managing owner."

"Perhaps he is engaged to some such young lady already?"

"Haven't heard so.  You may be sure there's one waitin' for him somewhere.  I know.  There's
no dodgin' luck, good or bad.  I thought it was goin' to be that friend of yours, but she's
off the register, poor lass.  There!  I didn't mean that.  I 'm an idiot, for sure.  You see,
I don't talk much as a rule, Miss Maxwell, or I should know better than to chin-wag like a
blazin'--huh, like a babblin' fool."

Elsie turned her face aside when he mentioned Isobel.  It seemed to her sensitive soul an almost
unfair thing that she should be gossiping about trivialities when the girl who had commenced
this unlucky voyage in such high spirits was lying beneath that grim sea behind the smiling
headland.  Yet she knew that Boyle meant no harm by his chatter.  He was weak from his wound,
and perhaps a trifle light-headed as the result of being brought from the stuffy saloon to
the airy and sunlit chart-room.  So she crushed a sorrow that was unavailing, and strove to
put the sailor at his ease again.

"I do not find any harm in your remark," she said resolutely.  "Were it possible, I should
have been very pleased to see Miss Baring married to a man of strong character like Captain
Courtenay.  By the way, who is keeping watch on deck?"

"The doctor was here with me until a few minutes ago.  Then the skipper telephoned him.  I
guess there is some one on the lookout, but you might just cast an eye shorewards.  I'm not
supposed to move yet."

He wriggled uneasily in his chair, for the spirit was willing; but Elsie made him lie quiet;
she rearranged his pillow, and stepped on to the bridge.  By walking from port to starboard,
and traversing the short length of the spar deck, she could command a view of the bay and of
most parts of the ship.  She heard the dog scuttling down the companion; on reaching the after-rail,
she saw the captain engaged in earnest, low-toned conversation with Tollemache and Walker.
They were standing on the main deck near the engine-room door, and examining something which
resembled a lump of coal; she saw the engineer take three similar lumps from a pocket.

Christobal appeared, carrying a bucket of water, into which the lumps were placed by Walker,
who handled them very gingerly.  After a slight delay, he began to crumble one in his fingers,
still keeping it in the water, until finally he drew forth what Elsie recognized at once as
a stick of dynamite.  Though it was blackened by contact with the coal, she was certain of
its real nature.  She had visited a great many mines, and the officials always scared the ladies
of the party by telling them what would happen if the explosives' shed were to blow up. She
had even seen dynamite placed in the sun to dry, as it is very susceptible to moisture, and
she wondered, naturally enough, why such a dangerous agent should be hidden in, or disguised
as, a piece of coal.

She thought that the men should be made aware of her presence, so she leaned over and said:

"May I ask what you four are plotting?"

They looked at her in surprise.  They were so engrossed in their discovery that they had eyes
for nothing else.  Walker straightway plunged the sausage-shaped gray stick into the water again.

"What are you doing with that dynamite?" she demanded.  "Do you intend to visit the Valley
of the Golden Sands?  If so, please take me.  I am very poor."

It was Courtenay who answered.

"Are you alone?" he asked.

"Mr. Boyle is in the chart-house."

"I know; but is any one else up there?"

"No."

"Then we shall join you at once."

Notwithstanding the serious demeanor of the men, Elsie was far from guessing what had happened.
But she was soon enlightened.

"In which bunker was the coal placed which we shipped at Valparaiso?" Courtenay asked Boyle.

"In the forrard cross bunker," was the instant answer.

"And that was the first coal used in the furnaces?"

"Yes, sir."

The captain's tone was official, exceedingly so, and the chief officer took the cue from his
superior in rank.

"Did we get up steam with it?"

"There might have been a hundred-weight or two lying loose in the stoke-hold, but, for all
practical purposes, we have used nothing but the Valparaiso bunker since we left port."

"The rest of our coal was shipped at Coronel?"

"Yes, sir."

"You hear?  It is exactly as I have told you," said Courtenay, glancing at the others.  "I
must explain to you, Mr. Boyle, that I wished you to state the facts in front of witnesses
before I gave you my reasons for cross-examining you on the matter.  Mr. Walker and I have
been certain, all along, that the furnaces were blown up wilfully.  Now our suspicions are
proved.  This morning, after a careful scrutiny, we came across a number of lumps of coal cleverly
constructed out of small pieces glued together.  In the center of each lump was a stick of
dynamite, protected by an asbestos wrapper.  It was undoubtedly the intent of some miscreant
that a number of these lumps should be fed into the furnaces.  This actually occurred, as we
know, but, by the mercy of Providence, the ship did not experience the full power of the explosion,
or she must have sunk like a stone."

"Huh," grunted Boyle.  "Who holds the insurance?"

"The shippers of the cargo, of course--Messrs. Baring, Thompson & Miguel."

"Worth a quarter of a million sterling, ain't it?"

"Yes."

"Huh, it's a lot of money."

There was a momentary silence.  Elsie's eyes grew larger, and she became rather pale.  As was
her habit when puzzled, she placed a finger on her lips.  Christobal noted her action.  Indeed,
he missed few of her characteristic habits or expressions.  He laughed quietly.

"I think you are quite right, Miss Maxwell," he said.  "This is one of the many instances in
which silence is golden."

Taken by surprise, she blushed and dropped her hand.  But Courtenay said promptly:

"There are some instances in which silence may be misinterpreted.  Let me state at once that
the shippers of the valuable cargo on board the Kansas will suffer a serious financial reverse
if the ship is lost. Two thousand tons of copper may be worth a considerable fixed sum, but
the lack of the metal on the London market at the end of January will have far-reaching consequences
in a fight against the bull clique in Paris, and that is why Mr. Baring made this heavy shipment."

"Those consequences could be foreseen and discounted," put in Tollemache, dryly.

"Exactly.  But by whom?  By the man who sent his only daughter as a passenger on this vessel?"

Every one scouted that notion.  But Tollemache, though disavowing any thought of Mr. Baring
as a party to the scheme, stuck to his guns.

"Somebody will make a pile when the Kansas is reported missing," he said.

"The insurance money would not be paid for a long time," Courtenay explained.

"No, but the copper market will respond instantly."

"Then the process has commenced already.  The Kansas should have been reported yesterday from
Sandy Point.  The news that she has not arrived will soon reach the nearest cable station.
There will be terrific excitement at Lloyd's when that becomes known."

"It is distinctly odd that Suarez should turn up last night, and tell us how gold slipped through
his fingers five years ago.  Let us hope the parallel will hold good for the gentleman who
so amiably endeavored to send the Kansas to the bottom of the Pacific," said Christobal.

"It is rather a rotten trick," broke in Tollemache, "just a bit of Spanish roguery--  Well,
I'm sorry, Christobal, but I can't regard you as quite a Spaniard, you see."

"Nevertheless, I am one," and the doctor stiffened visibly.

"What Tollemache means is that he would expect you to take the English and straightforward
view of a piece of rascality, doctor."  Then Courtenay paused in his turn.  "By the way," he
continued, with the frowning dubiety of one whose thoughts outstrip his words, "does any one
here know a man named Ventana?"

"It is a name common enough in Chile," said Christobal.

"If you mean Señor Pedro Ventana, who is associated with Mr. Baring in mining matters, I am
acquainted with him," said Elsie.  The men seemed to have forgotten her presence.  They were
wrapped up in the remarkable discovery which Courtenay himself had made by diligent search
among the coal ready for use in the furnaces when the explosion took place.

For no reason in particular, save the unexpectedness of it, Elsie's statement was received
with surprise.  They all looked at her, and some of them wondered, perhaps, why her smiling
eyes had lost their mirth. Yet there was nothing unreasonable in the mere fact that a certain
Chilean named Ventana, who had business relations with Mr. Baring, should make the acquaintance
of Isobel Baring's friend.  As quickly as it had arisen, the feeling of strangeness passed.

Courtenay even laughed.  Elsie as the Jonah of the ship was a quaint conceit.

"I mentioned Ventana because I was told he took some part of the insurance on his own account,"
he explained.  "But he was a member of Baring's copper syndicate, and, indeed, was spoken of
as a mining engineer of high repute.  Believe me, I was not jumping to conclusions on that
account."

"I know him to be a very bad man," said Elsie, slowly.  Her face was white and her eyes downcast.
It was evident that the sudden introduction of Ventana's personality was distressing to her,
but Courtenay, preoccupied with the dastardly attempt made to sink his ship, did not observe
this feature of a peculiar discussion.

"Bad!  In what sense, Miss Maxwell?" he asked unguardedly.

"In the most loathsome sense.  He is evil-minded, vicious, altogether detestable.  If Mr. Baring
knew his character as I know it, Ventana would not be allowed to enter his office."

"Pedro Ventana?" interrupted Christobal.  "Is he a half-caste, a tall, brown-skinned man, who
affects an American drawl when he speaks English--a man prominent in Santiago society and in
mining circles generally?"

"Yes," said Elsie.

"That is odd, exceedingly so.  I once heard a rumor--but perhaps it is unfair to mention it
in this connection.  Yet it cannot hurt any one if I state that Isobel Baring and he were--well--how
shall I put it?--at any rate, there was a lively summer-hotel sort of attachment between them."

"Isobel has never told me that," said Elsie, nerving herself for a personal disclosure which
was obviously disagreeable.  "I own a small ranch near Quillota, and, as there was a chance
of copper being located there, Mr. Baring advised me to employ Ventana as an expert prospector.
Indeed, Mr. Baring himself sent Ventana to examine the property and report on it.  He came
to see me.  He told me there were no minerals of value on my land, but I could never free myself
from him afterwards. Indeed, I am running away from him now."

She uttered the concluding words with a genuine indignation which forthwith evaporated in its
unconscious humor.  Everybody laughed, even the girl herself, and Boyle grunted:

"Huh, shows the beggar's good taste, anyhow."

Courtenay, perhaps, thought that if he encountered Ventana again he would take the opportunity
to reason with him in the approved manner of the high seas.  And, as there was no need to prolong
a topic which caused Elsie any sort of embarrassment, he hastened to say:

"I have brought names into the discussion largely to show what a doubtful field is opened once
we begin to suspect without real cause. The only witness of any value we have on board is Frascuelo,
and his evidence merely goes to prove a secret design to interfere with, or control, the trimming
of the bunker.  That particular hatch must be sealed, and the specimens we have secured put
away under lock and key. I feel assured that the remainder of our coal is above suspicion.
We can carry the inquiry no further while we remain here.  Now, Mr. Walker, you have something
of a more cheering nature to communicate, I think."

The engineer grinned genially.

"I don't wish to bind myself to a day or so, Miss Maxwell and gentlemen," he said, "but I've
had a good look at the damage, an' I feel pwitty shu-aw I'll get up steam in one boil-aw within
ten days or a fawt-night.  It'll be a makeshift job at the best, because I have so few spa-aw
fittin's, an' no chance of makin' a castin', but I'll bet a ye'aw's scwew the Kansas gets a
move on her undaw her own steam soon aftaw New Ye-aw's Day."

New Year's Day!  What a lump in the throat the words brought.  In three days it would be Christmas,
in seven more the New Year!  Though, from the beginning of the voyage, they were prepared to
pass both festivals at sea, there was all the difference in the world between a steady progress
towards home and friends and the present plight of the Kansas.  Death, too, had thrown its
shadow over them.  Some there were to whom the passing of the years would mean no more in this
world. Others, the great majority of the ship's company, were probably hidden by the same eternal
silence; the last sight they had of them was a dim vision of boats rushing into a chaos of
angry seas and sheeted spray.

But Courtenay would have none of these mournful memories.  He had solved the mystery of the
ship's breakdown, and an expert mechanical engineer had just pledged his reputation to restore
wings to the Kansas--somewhat clipped wings, it is true, but sufficient, given fair weather
and reasonable good fortune, to bring her to a civilized settlement in the Straits.  Why, then,
should they yield to gloom?

"Isn't that glorious news?" he cried.  "Now, Christobal, that motor trip in June through the
Pyrenees looks feasible once more.  And you, Miss Maxwell, though you have never quailed for
an instant, can hope to be in England in the spring.  As for you, Tollemache, surely you will
say that our prospects are 'fair,' at the least."

"I would say more than that if it were not for these poisonous Indians," replied Tollemache.
"Here they come now, a whole canoe load of 'em.  I have never seen such rotters."

And, indeed, Francisco Suarez, detailed to keep watch and ward over the ship until noon, ran
up the companion and cried excitedly:

"Four head men have just put off from Otter Creek.  They have missed me, I expect.  They will
want me to go back.  I beseech you, señor captain, not to give me up to them, but rather to
send a bullet through my miserable heart."

"Tell him to calm himself," said Courtenay, coolly, when Christobal had translated this flow
of guttural Spanish.  "He has no cause to fear them now; let him nerve himself, and show a
bold front.  A palaver is the best thing that can happen.  We must display all the arms we
possess.  Bid any of your invalids who can stand upright show themselves, Christobal.  We must
lift you outside, Boyle.  Bring your camera, Miss Maxwell.  If we could give these fellows
a good picture of themselves it would scare them to death."

The captain of the Kansas was not to be repressed that day.  He refused to look at the dark
side of things.  He even found cause for congratulation in the threatened visit of cannibals
whom Suarez feared so greatly that he preferred death to the chance of returning to them, although
they had spared his life.

And Courtenay infected them all with his splendid optimism.  It was with curiosity rather than
dread that they watched the rapid approach of the canoe and its almost naked occupants.

CHAPTER XI

CONFIDENCES

Courtenay was mistaken in thinking that the savages sought a parley. The canoe was paddled
by two women; they changed its course with a dexterous twist of the blades when within a cable's
length of the ship, and then circled slowly round her.  The four men jabbered in astonishingly
loud voices.  Suarez, who gathered the purport of their talk, explained that they were discussing
the best method of attack.

"The three younger men belong to the tribe which I lived with," he said.  "The old man sitting
between the women is a stranger.  I think he must have come from the north of the island with
some of his friends, attracted by the smoke signals."

"From the north?  Is there a road?" asked Courtenay, when he learnt what Suarez was saying.

"He would arrive in a canoe," was the answer.  "The Indians venture out to sea in very bad
weather.  He probably passed the ship late last night, and, now I come to think of it, the
canoe which you captured is not familiar to me, whereas I know by sight every craft owned by
the Feathered People."

"How many do they possess?"

"Twenty-three."

These statements were disconcerting.  Not only was it possible for the natives to surround
the Kansas with a whole swarm of men, but the mere number of their boats would render it exceedingly
difficult to repel a combined assault.  And nothing could be more truculent than the demeanor
of the semi-nude warriors.  They pointed at each person they saw on the decks, and made a tremendous
row when they passed the canoe fastened alongside.  Despite their keen sight, they evidently
did not recognize Suarez, who now wore a cap and a suit of clothes taken from the locker of
one of the missing stewards, while his appearance was so altered otherwise that even the people
on board found it difficult to regard him as the monstrous-looking wizard whom they had dragged
out of the water some twelve hours earlier.

The impudence of the Indians exasperated Courtenay.  The sheer size of the Kansas should have
awed them, he thought.

"I wish they had left their women behind," he muttered.  "If the men were alone, an ounce or
two of buck-shot would soon teach them to keep their distance."

"Perhaps they are aware of the danger of boarding a ship which stands so high above the sea
as the Kansas," said Christobal.  "Why not fire a couple of rounds of blank cartridge at them?"

"Worst thing you can do," said Tollemache.

"But why?"

"They would be sure, then, you could not hurt them.  If you shoot, shoot straight, with the
heaviest shot you possess."

At that moment the rowers permitted the canoe to swing round with the tide.  One of the men
stood up, and Elsie, who seized the chance of snap-shotting the party, ran to the upper deck,
so she did not overhear Courtenay's smothered ejaculation.  He was scrutinizing the savages
through his glasses, and he had distinctly seen the ship's name painted on a small water-cask
on which the Indian had been sitting.  Tollemache made the same dramatic discovery.

"Out of one of the ship's life-boats, I suppose?" he said in a low tone to the captain.

"Yes.  Did you see the number?"

"Number 3, I think."

"I agree with you.  That was the first life-boat which got away."

Christobal, startled out of his wonted sang-froid, whispered in his turn:

"Do you mean to say that one of the boats has fallen into the hands of these fiends?"

"I am afraid so," replied Courtenay.  "Of course, that particular keg may have drifted ashore.
In any case, it tells the fate of one section of the mutineers.  Either the boat is swamped,
or the crew are now on the island, and we know what that signifies."

"Is there no chance of bribing these people into friendliness, or, at least, into a temporary
truce?"

"It is hard to decide.  Tollemache and Suarez are best able to form an opinion.  What do you
say, Tollemache?"

"Not a bit of use; they are insatiable.  The more you give the more they want.  The only way
to deal with those rotters is to stir them up with a Gatling or a twelve-pounder."

Suarez, when appealed to, shook his head.

"Last winter," he said, "the man sitting aft, he with the single albatross feather sticking
in his hair, seized his own son, aged six, and dashed his brains out on the rocks because the
little fellow dropped a basket of sea-eggs he was carrying.  The woman nearest to him is his
wife, and she raised no protest.  You might as well try to fondle a hungry puma.  I am the
only man they have ever spared, and they spared me solely because they thought I gave them
power over their enemies.  If you had a cannon, you might drive them off.  As it is, we shall
be compelled to fight for our lives; they are brave enough in their own way."

The experience of the miner from Argentina was not to be gainsaid.  The predicament of the
giant Kansas--inert, immovable, lying in that peaceful bay at the mercy of a horde of painted
savages--was one of the strange facts almost beyond credence which men encounter at times in
the byways of life.  It reminded Courtenay of a visit he paid to the crocodile tank at Karachi
when he was a midshipman on the Boadicea. He noticed that some of the huge saurians, eighteen
feet in length and covered with scale armor off which a bullet would glance, were squirming
uneasily, and the Hindu attendant told him that they had been bitten by mosquitoes!

He laughed quietly, but his mirth had a curious ring in it which boded ill for certain unknown
members of the Alaculof tribe when the threatened tussle came to close quarters.  Elsie heard
him.  Leaning over the rails of the spar deck, she asked cheerfully:

"What is the joke, Captain Courtenay?  And why don't the Indians come nearer?  Are they timid?
They don't look it."

He glanced up at her.  If aught were needed to complete the contrast between civilization and
savagery it was given by the comparison which the girl offered to the women in the canoe. 
The hot sun and the absence of wind had changed the temperature from winter to summer. After
breakfast, Elsie had donned a muslin dress, and a broad-brimmed straw hat.  Exposure to the
weather had bronzed her skin to a delightful tint.  Her nut-brown hair framed a sweetly pretty
face, and her clear blue eyes and red lips, slightly parted, smiled bewitchingly at the men
beneath.  The camera in her hands added a holiday aspect to her appearance, an aspect which
was unutterably disquieting in its relation to the muttered forebodings she had broken in on.

But Courtenay's voice gave no hint of the tumult in his breast, though some malign spirit seemed
to whisper the agonizing question: "Will you permit her to fall into the hands of the ghouls
waiting without?"

"I find the get-up of our visitors distinctly humorous," he said, "and I hope they are a bit
scared of us.  We would prefer their room to their company."

"I thought that Señor Suarez would hail them, as he can speak their language.  Perhaps he does
not wish them to know he is on board?"

Now, Elsie had heard the man's impassioned appeal when the Indians were first sighted, so Courtenay
felt that she, too, was acting.

"You look nice and cool up there," he answered, "and your words do not belie your looks."

"Please, what does that mean exactly?"

"Need I tell you?  You treat our troubles airily."

"Shall one 'wear a rough garment to deceive'?" she quoted with a laugh. "Don't you remember
the next verse?  You ought to retort: 'I am no prophet, I am an husbandman!'  But that would
not be quite right, for you are a sailor."

She blushed a little at the chance turn of the phrase.

Indeed, a new direction was given to Elsie's thoughts by the somewhat scowling aspect of Christobal's
face.  He was looking at Courtenay in a manner which betokened a certain displeasure.  The
Spaniard's cultivated cynicism was subjugated by a more powerful sentiment.  It seemed to Elsie
that he envied Courtenay his youth and high spirits, for, in very truth, the mere exchange
of those harmless pleasantries had tuned the younger man's soul to the transcendental pitch
of the knight errant.  In his heart he was vowing to rescue this fair lady from the dangers
which beset her, though he said jokingly with his lips:

"If a husbandman has to do with a tiller I may claim some expert knowledge, Miss Maxwell."

Elsie dared not meet his eyes; a flood of understanding had suddenly poured its miraculous
waters over her.  Incidents unimportant in themselves, utterances which seemed to have no veiled
intent at the time, rushed in upon her with overwhelming conviction.  Christobal suspected
her of flirting with Courtenay, and disapproved of it as strongly as she herself had condemned
Isobel's admitted efforts in the same direction.  Though not a little dismayed, she resolved
to carry the war into the enemy's territory.

"Why are you looking so glum, Dr. Christobal?" she demanded.  "Has the captain's quip given
you a shock, or is it that you are surprised at my levity?"

"I am neither shocked nor surprised, Miss Maxwell.  I have not lived fifty years in this Vale
of Tears without being prepared for the unexpected."

"Does that imply that you are disillusioned?"

"By no means.  My heart is amazingly young.  'There is no fool like an old fool,' you know."

"Oh, please don't speak of age in that way.  You are far from being an antiquity.  Why, within
the past twenty-four hours I have come to look on you as a sort of elder brother, who can be
indulgent even while he chides."

Courtenay found himself wondering what had caused this flash of rapiers.  But, so far as he
was concerned, the proceedings of the Indians put a stop to any further share in the conversation.
The canoe had drifted closer to the ship.  It was about eighty yards distant when the Indian
who was on his feet suddenly whirled a sling, and sent a stone crashing through the window
of the music-room.  The heavy missile, which, when picked up, was found to weigh nearly half
a pound, just missed Tollemache, who was the first to take note of the sharp warning given
by Suarez, but failed, nevertheless, to dodge quickly enough.

The captain raised a double-barreled fowling-piece, the only gun on board, and fired point
blank at the savages.  But the women were paddling away vigorously, and the shot splashed in
the water on all sides of the canoe, though a howl and a series of violent contortions showed
that one, at least, of the pellets had stung the wizened Indian whom Suarez believed to be
a newcomer.

There was no second shot--cartridges were too precious to be wasted at an impossible range--but
the undeniable fact remained that the Indians meant to be aggressive.  For a little time no
one spoke.  They heard the echoes of the gunshot faintly thrown back by the nearest wall of
rock; the regular plash of the paddles as the canoe sped shorewards was distinctly audible.
They watched the tiny craft until it vanished round the wooded point which concealed Otter
Creek.  Then, to add to the sense of loneliness and peace conveyed by the placid bay and the
green slopes beyond, a big whale rolled into view in the middle distance, and blew a column
of water high in air.

The muffled clang of a hammer broke the silence which had fallen on the watchers from the ship.
Walker had slipped back to his beloved engines.  Had he not vowed that the massive pistons
should again thrust forth their willing arms on or about New Year's day?  He had forgotten
the cannibals and their threats ere he was at the foot of the engine-room ladder.  Courtenay
and Tollemache joined him; Christobal went to the saloon to visit his patients; Elsie was left
with Mr. Boyle, who forthwith fell into a doze, being worn out by the fresh air and the excitement.

Joey, having followed Courtenay to the one doorway in the ship which he could not enter, trotted
back to find Elsie.  She greeted him with enthusiasm.

"Hail, friend," she said.  "You, at least, are not jealous if I speak to your master, wherein
you show your exceeding wisdom.  Now, since you and I are persons of leisure, tell me, Joey,
what we shall do to make ourselves useful?"

The dog was accustomed to being spoken to.  He awaited developments.

"It seems to me, Joey," she continued, "that Gulielmo Frascuelo is the one person on board
who claims our attention.  There is a mystery to be solved.  Bound up in it are my poor Isobel,
that beast, Ventana, and a drunken coal-trimmer.  An odd assortment to rub shoulders, don't
you think?"

Joey still reserved his opinion.  When the girl went to the forecastle by climbing down the
sailors' ladder to the lower deck, he thought she was making a mistake; but she held her arms
for his spring, and all was well.  She had not previously visited the quarters set apart for
the crew.  Puzzled by the large number of small cabins with names of subordinate officers painted
on them, she paused and cried loudly:

"Are you there, Frascuelo?  May I speak to you?"

An exclamation of surprise, a somewhat forcible exclamation, too, answered her from an inner
berth.  Frascuelo had heard from the Chilean who brought his meals that there was an Englishwoman
on board, but he did not know that she spoke Spanish fluently.  He answered her question politely
enough in the next breath, and the dog indicated the right door by hopping inside.

Frascuelo was reclining on a lower bunk.  His injured leg was well on the way towards recovery,
but the wound and its resultant confinement had chastened him; he had lost the brigandish swagger
which was his most cherished asset.

After acknowledging inquiries as to his progress, he showed such eagerness for news that Elsie
told him briefly what had caused the latest uproar.  She cheered him, too, with the announcement
made by the engineer, and then led him to the topic on which she sought information.

"In some ways, I regard you as most unfortunate," she said.  "I have been told you are here
by accident--that you never meant to take the voyage at all.  Is that true?"

Frascuelo, delighted to have secured a sympathetic listener, poured forth his sorrows volubly.
He bore no ill-will against the captain he said.  He knew it was wrong to draw a knife on the
chief officer, as his tale was an unlikely one, and he ought to have trusted to a more orderly
recital of the facts to obtain credence.

"But I was that mad, señorita, I just saw red, and the drink was yet surging up in me.  I felt
I must fight somebody, whatever the consequences."

"Can you tell me why any one had such a grievance against you that you should be thrown into
the hold and nearly killed?  That was a strange thing to do, especially as you came aboard
too late for your work."

"Ah, that is the point, señorita.  You see, we trimmers work in gangs, and the man who flung
me through the hatch was the man who had taken my place.  I see no reason to doubt that it
was he who made me drunk the previous evening, and I know who did that."

"What was his name?"

"José Anacleto--'José the Wine-bag' we call him on the Plaza.  I ought to have smelt mischief
when José paid.  Never before had I seen him do such a thing.  And a good liquor, too.  Dios,
it must have cost him dollars."

"What object had he in coming on board instead of you?"

"Ah, there you beat me, señorita.  I have twisted my poor brain with thinking of that.  We
only earned a dollar a head, and bunkering a ship from a flat is hard work while it lasts,
whereas one would expect José to ride twenty miles the other way to escape such a task.  But
he was in the plot, and he shall tell me why, or--"

By force of habit, Frascuelo put his right hand to his belt, but his sheath knife had been
taken from him.  He smiled sheepishly; yet his black eyes twinkled.

"Plot!  Why do you speak of a plot?" asked the girl, hoping that the word betokened some more
promising clue than she could discern thus far.

"Why did the furnaces blow up?  Tell me that, and I can answer you. Good, honest coal isn't
made of gunpowder.  José, or some one behind him, meant to sink the ship, and, as I might have
proved awkward, they were willing that I should go down with her.  Maybe I shall meet José
if we get out of this rat-trap; then we shall have a little talk."

Again his hand wandered towards his waist, but he bethought himself, and bent in pretense that
the bandage on his leg needed readjusting.

Despite the man's shrewd guess as to the cause of the accident in the stoke-hold, Elsie was
at a loss to connect the freak of some Valparaiso loafer with the deep-laid scheme which contemplated
the destruction of the Kansas.  She had followed the discussion in the chart-room with full
appreciation of its significance.  Valuable as the ship and cargo were, there was far more
at stake in the effect of the loss on the copper markets of the world.  The most important
copper-exporting firm in Chile would practically be ruined, while the Paris "ring," of which
she had read in the newspapers, would have matters its own way. Financial interests of such
magnitude would hardly be bound up with the carousals and quarrels of Frascuelo and José the
Wine-bag.  Yet--

"Have you ever heard of a Señor Pedro Ventana?" she asked suddenly.

"Has he to do with mines?" inquired the Chilean, tentatively.

"Yes."

"I know him by sight, señorita."

"Would he be acquainted with this man, Anacleto, do you think?"

"Can't say.  José would know anybody whom he could touch for a few pesetas."

She left him, promising to visit him daily in the future.  As she walked back towards the bridge
companion, she met Dr. Christobal.  His fit of ill-humor had gone: he was all smiles; but Elsie,
having extracted such information as Frascuelo possessed, was bent on adding to her store of
knowledge.  Incidentally, she meant to widen the doctor's views.

"Why have you taken to lecturing me?" she asked, with a simple directness which Christobal
was not slow to profit by.

"Because, though old enough to be your father, or your elder brother, as you were kind enough
to put it, I have not yet reached years of discretion."

If candor were needed, he would be candid.  Sophistry was worse than useless with a woman of
Elsie's type.  The only way to win her was to be transparently honest.  To Christobal, after
an experience of a generation of Chileans, this came as a refreshing novelty.

"You mean, I suppose, that if every one attended to their own affairs it would be a less spiteful
world?  I am inclined to agree with you. Unhappily, life is largely made up of these minor
evils.  Yet I should have thought that the desperate conditions under which we exist at this
hour might protect me from uncharitableness."

"You are pleased to be severe."

"No; it is the last privilege of danger that shams should vanish.  Yet we plumb the depths
of absurdity when we contest the right of any woman, even a young and unmarried one, to appreciate
all that a brave man has done and is doing to save her life."

Here was candor undiluted.  Elsie was speaking without heat.  She might have been reasoning
some disputed point in ethics.  The Spaniard was obviously thrown off his guard.

"You seem to demand an explanation," he said with some warmth.  "Well, you shall have it. 
I am not a man to flinch from the disagreeable.  I admit a sort of impression, I might almost
describe it as a conviction, that Captain Courtenay's manner towards you betokens a growing
admiration."

"This is the wildest folly," cried Elsie in bewilderment.  "I--I cannot imagine what put such
a notion into your head."

"Let me at least lay claim to a species of altruism," he replied.  "I can see fifty excellent
reasons why our young and good-looking commander should be drawn to you, nor can I urge one
against it."

"But he is already engaged to another woman, so my one reason is worth more than all your fifty."

"Ah, can that really be so?"

The tense eagerness in his voice might have warned her, were it not that she was shocked by
the bitterness which welled up in her heart. She was amazed by this introspective glimpse;
it alarmed her; she must convince herself, at all costs, that she had spoken truly.

Although the evidence she tendered was of dubious value, she strove to advance her argument
further.

"I have prized our friendship greatly, Dr. Christobal," she said, speaking with a calm deliberateness
that rang hollow in her own ears, "so greatly that I am compelled to utter this protest.  Now,
to end a distasteful controversy, let me tell you what I know to be true.  When the ship was
stranded, and we all thought our only chance of safety was to take to the boats, by a fluke,
the accident of the moment, I was left alone in the captain's cabin.  The sea was breaking
in through the doorway, and it brought an odd relief to my over-burthened mind when I endeavored
to rescue the contents of a locker which, for some reason, had been scattered on the floor
previously.  Among them I found some letters.  I think you will believe me when I say that
I would not consciously read another person's private correspondence.  Just then, I was hardly
responsible for my actions, and I did happen to see and grasp the meaning of a passage in a
letter from Captain Courtenay's sister which alluded to his affianced wife.  It is not such
a tragic admission, is it?  I would scarce have given it another thought were it not for your
manner this morning and your words last night.  I paid no heed at the time to the innuendo
that I had come on deck to find him--to waylay him, as I have heard men say when speaking of
a type of woman I despise.  So I resolved to straighten out a stupid little tangle.  It would
be ridiculous, in our present state of suspended animation, to let such a slight thing mar
our friendship."

Elsie, was indulging in that most delusive thing, self-persuasion.  It was not surprising,
therefore, that she failed to note the unmixed satisfaction with which Christobal listened.

"Am I forgiven, then?" he asked, with a new tenderness in his voice.

"Oh, yes, let us laugh at it."

"But--"

"Please let us talk of something more useful.  I have a little plan, and you might ask the
captain if he approves of it.  We have plenty of strong canvas; what do you say if I set to
work and cover in the promenade deck, fore and aft as well as on both sides?  Then, if the
Indians try to seize the ship, they would not be able to gain a lodgment at so many points
simultaneously.  It would simplify the defense, so to speak."

"Admirable!  I am sure Courtenay will agree.  Indeed, I am ashamed that we superior males failed
to hit on the idea earlier.  Before I go, let me be certain that my forgiveness is complete?"

"Shall we quarrel about a degree of blessedness?  I assure you I like you more than ever. 
When all is said and done, you thought I was flinging myself at our excellent captain's head,
so you tried to spare me the pangs of unrequited love."  The words hurt, but she did not flinch.
Christobal, anxious to deceive himself, was radiant.

"Your charity goes too far," he cried.  "That was not the exact reason. No, my dear Miss Maxwell,
I begin to exercise a new-born discretion.  I shall not elucidate that cryptic remark until
after New Year's Day. But I don't mind telling you why I have hit on a definite date.  If all
goes well with us--and we have had so many escapes that Providence may well send us a few more--the
Kansas should steam out of our little bay of Good Hope about that period.  Then I shall remind
you of our discussion, and keep my promise."

With that he left her.  After a gasp or two of surprise, for Elsie could read only one meaning
into his words, she hurried up the bridge companion to arouse Mr. Boyle and ask what he would
like for luncheon.

"Thank goodness, Joey," she murmured to the dog, whom she picked up in her arms, "thank goodness,
Mr. Boyle is neither an engaged man nor a widower.  I do believe our excellent doctor is more
concerned on his own account than on mine.  And he said that your master's manner 'betokened
a growing admiration.'  I wish--no, Joey, I mean nothing of the sort, and if you dare to hint
at such a thing I shall be very angry with you--very--angry--indeed."

"Huh," muttered Boyle, wide awake and watching her through the open door, "some one has been
worryin' that girl.  It's a sure sign of trouble when a woman whispers in the ear of a dog
or cat.  Now, who can it be?  That doctor chap?  He cocked his eye at her this mornin' when
she spoke about Ventana.  He's a pretty tough old bird to think about settin' up house with
a nice young jenny wren.  Damn his eyes! he may be as rich as a Jew, but if she doesn't want
him, an' is too skeered to say so, I 'll tell him, in the right sort of Spanish, an' all. 
Now, had it been the skipper--"

Boyle hardly knew what to think--"had it been the skipper."

CHAPTER XII

ENLIGHTENMENT

The captain was enthusiastic when he heard of Elsie's idea for the protection of the main deck--"an
excellent notion," he termed it, but he scouted the suggestion that she should undertake the
work herself.

"You little know what hauling taut heavy canvas means," he said when they met at lunch.  "It
would tear the skin off your hands.  No, Miss Maxwell, we can put our Chileans on to that job.
I have something better for you to do.  Can you map?"

"I have copied heaps of plans for my father," she told him.

"Excellent!  At noon to-day I took an observation, so I intend to devote an hour to revising
the chart.  Will you help?  Joey is in the scheme already.  Then the Admiralty will gracefully
acknowledge the survey supplied by Miss Elsie Maxwell, Captain Arthur Courtenay, and Joey,
otherwise known as 'the pup.'"

His allusion to the dog by name recalled "José the Wine-bag," but Elsie thought she would retain
that tiny scrap of detective information for the present.  So she simply said:

"You will explain to me my part of the undertaking, of course?"

"Certainly.  You must first correct the Index Error.  Then you subtract the Dip and the Refraction
in Altitude, take the sun's semi-diameter from the Nautical Almanac, and add the Parallax.
Do you follow me?"

"Perfectly; it sounds the easiest thing.  But I don't wish to hear the remarks of the Admiralty
when they see the result."

"I am interested in navigation, to the slight extent possible to a mere yachtsman: may I join
you?" interposed Christobal.

"Oh, yes," said the captain off-handedly.

Elsie repressed the smile on her lips.  Did the worthy doctor fear developments if this harmless
map-making progressed in his absence? She imagined, too, that Courtenay's acquiesence in Christobal's
desire to be present was not wholly in accordance with his innermost wish. She promptly crushed
that dangerous fancy.  The captain was only seeking for some excuse to take her away from the
rough work of rigging the extra awnings.  How odd that the other thought should have cropped
up first!

"You still think the Kansas will win clear of her difficulties?" she said rather hurriedly.
"I am sorry to bring King Charles's head into the conversation, but, after all, the ship's
safety is essential to your survey."

"Every hour strengthens my opinion," was the confident reply.  "Suarez says that there is a
reasonable chance of occasional brief spells of fine weather at this period of the year.  At
any rate, the gale may not be absolutely continuous, and Walker is assured that he can patch
up the engines for half speed.  Given a calm day, a day like this, for instance, we can reach
the Straits in a few hours."

"And the Indians?"

"I leave them out of my reckoning.  What else can I do?"

"Kill 'em," said Tollemache.

Courtenay glanced sharply at his fellow-countryman.  He disliked these references to the Alaculof
bogy in Elsie's presence.  It was enough that it should exist without being constantly paraded.
Though the girl herself was the culprit, Tollemache should have left the topic alone.

But Tollemache was a man of fixed ideas.  The device of canvas shields to repel boarders had
set him thinking how much more effective it would be if the savages were kept at a distance.
He well knew that they would not be deterred by a shotgun and a few revolvers, once they had
made up their minds to carry the ship by assault.  To explain himself, he was compelled to
speak at some length, and his swarthy face flushed under the unusual strain.

"We have dynamite aboard," he said.  "Why not construct a couple of infernal machines which
could be fired by pulling a string, and let them drift towards the canoes when the Indians
are near enough?"

"It is worth trying," was Courtenay's brief comment, though he saw later that Tollemache's
suggestion was a very useful one.

Elsie's first task was to prepare a large-scale drawing of the southern part of Hanover Island,
as set forth in Admiralty Chart No. 1837 (Sheet 2, Patagonia), which is the only trustworthy
record available for shipmasters using the outer passage between the Gulf of Penas and the
Straits of Magellan.  It was a simple matter to fill in the few contours given.  The neighboring
small islands were shown in reasonable detail, but the whole western coast of Hanover Island
itself consisted of a dotted line and a solitary peak, Stokes Mountain, the height of which
could be estimated and its position triangulated from the sea. Even Concepcion Straits on the
north and the San Blas Channel on the south were marked in those significant dotted lines.
The coast was practically unknown to civilized man.  One of the last fortresses of the world,
grim, inhospitable, it guarded its secret recesses with crag and glacier and reef-strewn sea.

It was borne in on the girl, while she worked, that the chiefest marvel in her present condition
was the triumph of science over nature in its most hostile mood.  The Kansas boasted all the
comforts and luxuries of a well-equipped hotel.  Seated at the same table as herself was a
skilful sailor, using logarithms, secants and cosecants, polar distances and hour angles, as
if he were in some university class-room. Near the door, enjoying the warm sun, Boyle was stretched
on a deck-chair, while Christobal was offering a half-hearted protest against his patient's
manifest enjoyment of the first cigar he had been able to smoke since a Chilean knife disturbed
certain sensory nerves between his shoulder-blades.  The every sociableness of the gathering
was a paradox: the truth lay with the ice-capped hills and the ape-like nomads who infested
the humid forests of the lower slopes.

She stole a glance at Courtenay.  He was so keenly engaged on the business in hand, so bent
on achieving accuracy in his figures, that she chided herself for her morbid reverie.  Then
she wondered if he ever gave a thought to that promised wife of his, who must soon suffer the
agony of knowing that the Kansas was overdue.

Elsie was sufficiently well acquainted with shipping to realize the sensation that would be
created by the first cablegram from Coronel anouncing the non-appearance of the steamer in
the Straits.  The Valparaiso newspapers would be full of surmises as to the vessel's fate.
They would publish full details of the valuable cargo--and give a list of the passengers and
officers.  Ah!  Ventana would learn then, if he had not heard of it earlier, that she was on
board.  And he alone would understand the true reason of her flight from Chile.  Her cheeks
flushed, and she applied herself more closely to the chart she was copying.  She had left a
good deal unsaid in her brief statement that morning.  How strange, how utterly unexpected
it was, that Ventana's name should fall from Courtenay's lips--Courtenay, of all men living!
And what did Isobel mean, during that last dreadful scene ere she was carried away to the boat,
by screaming in her frenzy that Ventana had taken "an ample vengeance."  Vengeance for what?
Had the half-breed dared to make the same proposal to the rich and highly placed Isobel Baring
that he did not scruple to put before the needy governess? Surely that was impossible.  There
were limits even to his audacity--

"Well, how is my chief hydrographer progressing?"

Courtenay's cheery voice banished the unwelcome specter of Ventana. Elsie started.

"I do believe you were day-dreaming," said the captain with a surprised smile.  "A penny for
your thoughts?"

"I don't think you can pay me," she retorted, hoping to cover her confusion.

"Won't you accept Chilean currency?"

"Not on the high seas."

"But you are on dry land.  Please make a dot on your map at 51 degrees 14 minutes 9 seconds
South, and 74 degrees 59 minutes 3 seconds West. That is the present position of the ship.
Are you listening, Boyle? According to the chart, the ship is high and dry, four miles inland."

"Huh!" grunted Boyle.  "Reminds me of a skipper I once sailed with, bound from Rotterdam to
Hull in ballast.  There was a Scotch mist best part of the trip, an' the old man loaded with
schnapps to keep out the damp.  First time he got a squint of the sun he went as yaller as
a Swede turnip.  'It's all up with us, boys,' he said.  'My missus is forty fathoms below.
We've just sailed over York.'  You see, he'd made a mistake of a few degrees."

"Boyle," said Courtenay, severely, "what has come to you?  Are you actually making a joke?"

"I think I must have bin tongue-tied before, captain."

"Before what?"

"Before that lame duck in the fo'c'sle stuck his tobacco-cutter into my jaw.  I can talk like
a prize parrot now--can't I, Miss Maxwell?"

Elsie was laughing, but she remembered the subject on which Boyle had displayed his new-found
power of speech; and human parrots are apt to say too much.

"Please don't tell any more funny little stories," she cried, "or I shall be putting dots in
the wrong places."

"And causing us to waste time scandalously.  Are you ready, Miss Maxwell?  Let me pin this
compass card on the table.  Use the parallel ruler; regard each inch as a mile, and I'll do
the rest by guesswork."

Courtenay took his binoculars, and went on to the bridge.  He called out the apparent distance
of each landmark he could distinguish, described it, and gave its true bearing.  In the result,
Elsie found she had prepared a clear and fairly accurate chart of the bay and its headlands,
while the position of the distant range of mountains was marked with tolerable precision. 
But Courtenay was far from being satisfied.

"If I had a base line, or even a fresh set of points taken higher up the inlet, I could improve
on my part of the survey," he said.  "Yours is admirable, Miss Maxwell.  Of course, I know
you are an artist; but mapping is a thing apart.  That is first-rate."

"Perhaps you may be able to secure fresh data when the Kansas puts to sea again," said Christobal.

"If I am conning the wheel, I must leave the chart-making entirely to my assistant," replied
the captain, lightly.  "But I do mean to peep a little further into our estuary.  Before the
ship sails I may have another spare hour to devote to it."

"In what way?" asked Elsie.

"By utilizing the canoe.  A mile or so higher up the channel I should be clear of the bluff
which hides Otter Creek.  I imagine it will be possible then to see the full extent of the
bay.  I must get you to sound Suarez as to the lie of the land."

"I hope you will do nothing of the sort," protested Elsie, earnestly.

"Why?  Do you think the canoe unsafe?"

"No, no; not that.  But those waiting Indians.  They might see you."

"Oh, the Indians again!  I shall run no risk of that sort.  It would indeed be the irony of
fate if the Kansas slipped her cable and left the skipper behind."

"Huh!  No fear!  She'd follow you like Joey.  I was tellin' Miss Maxwell what a lucky fellow
you were.  Besides, if you went, I 'd be in command, and you know what would happen then. 
By gad, if all else failed, the bloomin' tub would turn turtle in the Pool."

To emphasize his remarks, Boyle blew a big smoke ring, and shot several smaller rings through it.

Elsie felt Christobal's critical eye on her; she was shading the outlines of the map, and trusted
that her head was bent sufficiently to hide the tell-tale color which leapt to her face.  But
Courtenay wished to hear more of this.

"I hope you do not credit everything my chief officer says about me," he said, glancing over
her shoulder at the drawing.  "Nor about himself," he added, as she was too busy to look up.
"To my knowledge, he has refused the command of two ships since we both joined the Kansas."

"Home orders!" cried Boyle, who was certainly beyond himself.  Probably he missed his regular
vocal exercise owing to lack of a crew.  "My missus says to me, 'You just stick to Captain
Courtenay, young feller-me-lad.  He's one of the get-rich-quick sort.  P'raps you 'll learn
from him how to dodge Board of Trade inquiries.'  You stand on what I told you, Miss Maxwell.
You remember?  Commodore!  Huh!"

Something must be done to stem the long-pent flood of Mr. Boyle's gossip.  Elsie turned on
him desperately.

"How do you expect me to listen to you, and work at the same time?" she said.

"Sorry," he answered, composing himself to sleep.

Courtenay glanced at the chronometer.

"I must be off," he announced.  "Tollemache may need some help with his bombs, and those Chileans
require looking after."

Christobal, too, quitted the chart-room to visit his patients.  He had said very little while
he sat there, and Elsie did not know whether to laugh or cry at the tragic-comedy of her environment.
She was only certain of one thing--she would like to box Boyle's ears.  She was completely
at a loss to account for his persistent efforts to drag in references to their prior conversation.
She dared not catechize him. That would be piling up more difficulties for the future.  But
what possessed him to blurt out such embarrassing details in the presence of the two men whom
she most wished to remain in ignorance of them?

She peeped at Boyle sideways.  His eyes were closed, the cigar was between his teeth, and he
had a broad grin on his face.  She could not guess that the once taciturn chief officer of
the Kansas was saying to himself:

"My godfather, how Pills glared!  There will be trouble on this ship about a woman before long,
or I'm a Dutchman.  An' didn't the skipper rise at the fly, too!  Huh!"

He uttered the concluding monosyllable aloud.

"Did you speak?" inquired Elsie, severely.

"Eh?  No, Miss Maxwell."

"Oh, I thought you wanted to say something."

"Not a word.  Too much talking makes my back stiff."

"Your physical peculiarities are amazing, Mr. Boyle."

"Huh, it's odd how things take some people.  I once knew a chap, skipper of the Flower of the
Ocean, who could drink a hogshead of beer an' be as sober as a judge except in one leg, an'
that was a wooden one."

She laughed.  It was impossible to be vexed with him.

"You have met some very remarkable shipmasters, if all you say be true," she cried.

"Sailors are queer folk, believe me.  That same brig, Flower of the Ocean, an' a pretty flower
she was, too--all tar an' coal-dust, with a perfume that would poison a rat--put into Grimsby
one day, an' the crowd went ashore.  They kicked up a shindy with some bar-loungers, an' the
fur flew.  When the police came, old Peg-leg, the skipper, you know, was the only man left
in the place, havin' unshipped his crutch for the fight.  'What have you bin a-doin' of here--throwin'
grapes about?' asked the peeler, gazin' at the floor, suspicious-like. 'Grapes,' said Dot-an'-carry-one,
'them ain't grapes.  Them's eyeballs!'  Another time--"

"Mr. Boyle!" shrieked Elsie, and fled.

"Huh!" he grunted.  "Off before the wind when she hears a Sunday-school yarn like that.  Wonder
what she 'd say if I told her about the plum-duff with beetles for Sultanas.  Girls are brought
up nowadays like orchids.  They shouldn't be let loose in this wicked world."

As Elsie passed along the promenade deck she saw Courtenay, Tollemache, and Walker deep in
consultation.  They were arranging a percussion fuse of fulminating mercury.  While she was
watching them, Walker dropped a broken furnace bar on top of a small package placed on an iron
block. Instantly there was a sharp report, and Joey, who was an interested observer, jumped
several feet.  The men laughed, and she heard Courtenay say:

"That is the right proportion of fulminate.  Now, Tollemache, I'll help you to fix them.  We
do not know the moment those reptiles may choose to attack."

So the captain did not leave the Alaculof menace altogether out of count.  Something rose in
her throat, some wave of emotion which threatened her splendid serenity.  She ran rather than
walked to her cabin, flung herself on the bed, and sobbed piteously.  It had to come, this
tempest of tears.  When desperate odds demanded unflinching courage, she faced them dry-eyed,
with steadfast heart.  But to-day, in the bright sunshine and apparent security of the ship,
sinister death-shadows tortured her into rebellion.  She did not stop to ask herself why she
wept; being a woman, she yielded to the gust, and when it had ended, with the suddenness of
a summer shower, she smiled through the vanishing tears.  Her first concern was that none should
be aware of her weakness.

"How stupid of me," she murmured.  "What would the men think if they knew I broke down in this
fashion."

She looked in a mirror.  In the clear light without, any one could see she had been crying,
and there was so much work to be done that she did not wish to remain in her stateroom until
all tokens of the storm had passed.  She searched for a powder-puff, and was at a loss to discover
its whereabouts until she recollected that the doctor had borrowed it for the use of a man
slightly scalded when his own supply of antiseptic powder was exhausted.  So she went into
Isobel's room, entering it for the first time since the Kansas struck on the shoal.  The two
cabins communicated, as Mr. Baring had gone to the expense of having a door broken through
the partition for the girls' use during the voyage.  If Elsie had not already given way to
tears she must have faltered now at the sight of her friend's belongings strewed in confusion
over the floor, chairs, dressing-table, and bed.  Isobel possessed a gold-mounted dressing-case
the size of an ordinary portmanteau.  It held an assortment of pretty, and mostly useless,
knick-knacks, and they had all been tumbled out in a frantic hurry.  At first Elsie flinched
from further scrutiny, but common sense told her that this despondent mood must be fought.
She dropped to her knees, found a mother-o'-pearl poudrier, and picked up other scattered articles
and replaced them in the dressing-case.  To accomplish this it was necessary to rearrange various
trays and drawers.  Portraits of girl friends, including her own, and of men unknown to her,
letters, memoranda, and other documents, were thrown about in disorder.  All these she put
back in their receptacles, wondering the while what motive had led Isobel to make such a frenzied
search for some special object that she cared not a jot what became of the remaining articles.

Yet, who could account for the frenzy of that terrible hour when the captain announced the
ship's danger?  Even Courtenay himself, she remembered, had emptied a locker in a rapid hunt
for the dog's coat; but he had laughingly explained his haste later when some chance reference
was made to his soaked garments.

Anything was explicable in the light of panic.  She gathered up a skirt and some blouses, locked
the dressing-case, put the key in her purse, and quitted the room with a heavy heart, for the
handling of her friend's treasures had brought sad memories.

Passing into the deck corridor, she heard the captain's voice, apparently at a considerable
distance.  Two hundred yards away from the ship, Courtenay and Tollemache were anchoring a
flat framework, built of spare hatches and secured by wooden cross-pieces.  On it stood the
first of the infernal machines.  The raft floated level with the water, so its only conspicuous
fitting was a small spar and a block, to which a line and an iron bar were attached.  The men
looked strange in her eyes at that distance.  In the marvellously clear light she could see
their features distinctly, and, when Courtenay shouted to a sailor to haul in the slack of
the line, she caught a trumpet-like ring that recalled the scene in the saloon when he held
back the mob of stewards. His athletic figure, silhouetted against the shimmering green of
the water, was instinct with graceful strength.  He looked a born leader of men, and, as though
to mark his quickness of observation, no sooner had Elsie glanced over the side of the ship
than he waved a hand to her.

She sighed.  A bitter thought peeped up in her that he was perhaps a trifle careless in showing
her these little attentions.  She wished he would speak to her of that other girl who awaited
him in England.  A pleasant state of confidence would be established then; these secret twitches
of sentiment were irritating.

Some women, in her place, would pay no heed to that aspect of their enforced relations; not
so Elsie, whose virginal breast was unduly fluttered by the discovery that a young man is the
most natural thing in the world for a young woman to think about.

She walked aft to obtain a nearer view of the operations.  The sailors had already shut in
a large portion of the promenade deck with canvas, and she noticed that loopholes were provided,
every ten feet or so, to permit the effective use of the defenders' firearms.  Thus, at each
step, she was reminded of the precarious hold she had on life, and she was positively frightened
when some mad impulse surged through her whole being, bidding her imperiously to abandon her
ultra-conscientious loyalty to a woman she had never seen.  Why struggle against circumstance?
If death were so near, what did she gain by prudery?

For an instant she stood aghast at the revelation which had come to her.  She was in love with
Courtenay.  She was ready to die by his side, fearless and joyous, if only he would put his
arms around her and tell her that she was dear to him.  Ah, the fierce delight of that first
silent surrender!  Her heart beat as it had never pulsed before, even under the stress of the
storm or the sudden terror of the night attack.  Her eyes shone, and her breath came laboriously
between parted lips.  Golden dreams coursed through her brain.  She was thrilled with an unutterable
longing.

Then her swimming eyes rested on a group of men standing on the poop. Among them was Christobal,
interested, like the rest, in the floating of the mine.  And forthwith Elsie fell from the
clouds, and was brought back, shuddering, to cold reason again.  She was sick at heart; she
hated herself for her self-abasement.  She must gird her with sackcloth and mourn; and the
fight must be fought now, without parley or hesitation, unless the sweetness were to go forth
from life for ever, and all things should turn to ashes in her mouth.

So, marshaling the best qualities of her womanhood, she quelled the turmoil in her breast,
forced herself to join the men on the after deck, and said, when the smiling Spaniard turned
to receive her:

"Why am I denied the mild excitement of mine-laying, Dr. Christobal? Is it that you dread the
effect on my nerves of these murderous preparations?"

"No," he answered, making room for her at the railing by his side.  "I had missed you, of course,
but I thought you were resting."

"Resting, indeed!  I have been quite busy.  Where do they mean to put the second contrivance?"

"About there," he said, indicating a point on the surface of the bay eastward of the canoe.
His right arm was extended, and he placed his left hand on her shoulder.  Courtenay, hailing
Walker, saw the two leaning over the rails in that attitude.  Perhaps one of the two hoped
that Courtenay would see them.  Elsie, as part of her punishment, did not shrink away, though
the touch of Christobal's hand made her flesh creep.  But Joey, whose mind was singularly free
from complexities, leaped up at her.  He wanted Elsie to tell him what Courtenay was doing
out there, so far away from the ship.  She stooped and picked him up. Christobal had no excuse
for a second caress.

"Bark, Joey," she whispered, "bark and call your master.  If anything happens to him, you and
I shall never see England again.  And I am longing for home to-day."

CHAPTER XIII

THE FIGHT

Christmas Day arrived, and maintained its kindly repute by finding affairs on board the Kansas
changed for the better.  Mr. Boyle was so far recovered that he could walk; he even took command
of two watches in the twenty-four hours, but was forbidden to exert himself, lest the wound
in his back should reopen.  Several injured sailors and firemen were convalescent; the two
most serious cases were out of danger; Frascuelo, hardy as a weed, dared the risk of using
his damaged leg, and survived, though his progress along the deck was painful. Nevertheless,
on Christmas morning he presented himself before the captain, and asked leave to abandon his
present quarters.  He felt lonely in the forecastle, and wished to berth with the other Chileans
in the neighborhood of the saloon.  Although his luck was bad in some respects, the coal-trimmer
was endowed with the nine lives of a cat, for there could be no manner of doubt that he dragged
himself aft just in time to avoid being killed.

Yet, never was day less ominous in appearance.  The breezy, sunlit morning brought no hint
of coming tragedy.  The fine weather which had prevailed since the Kansas drifted into the
estuary seemed to become more settled as the month wore.  Suarez said it was unprecedented.
Not only had he not witnessed in five years three consecutive days without rain, snow, or hail,
but the Indians had a proverb: "Who so-ever sees fire-in-the-sky (the sun) for seven days shall
see the leaf red a hundred times."  In effect, centenarians were needed to bear testimony to
a week's fine weather; whereas no man--most certainly no woman--among the Alaculofs ever succeeded
in reaching the threescore years and ten regarded by the psalmist as the span of life.

But the miner from Argentina never wavered in his belief that the Indians would soon muster
every adult for an assault on the ship.  The elements might waver, but not the hate of the
savage.  From the rising of the sun to the going down thereof Suarez was ever on the alert.
He ate his meals with his eyes fixed on the low point of land which hid Otter Creek.  He saw
thin columns of smoke rising when no other eye on board could discern them.  Once he made out
the forms of a number of women searching for shellfish on some distant rocks at low water,
and on Christmas morning he reported the presence of three canoes among the trees near Otter
Creek, when Courtenay could scarce be sure of their character after scrutinizing them through
his glasses.

Every other person on the ship held the opinion that the Alaculofs would attack by night, if
they were not afraid to attempt the enterprise at all.  So Suarez slept soundly, while his
companions were on the qui vive for a call to repel boarders.  Were it not for the strain induced
by the silent menace of their savage neighbors, the small company suffered no ill from their
prolonged stay in this peaceful anchorage.  There was work in plenty for all hands.  Walker
was re-enforced by a trio of firemen, whose technical knowledge, slight as it was, proved useful
when he began to fit and connect the disabled machinery.  For the rest, the promenade deck
was walled with strong canvas, while Courtenay and Tollemache gave undivided attention to the
fashioning of several other floating bombs which could be exploded from the ship.  They also
provided flexible steam-pipes in places where a rush might be made if the Indians once secured
a footing on the deck, fore or aft.  Steam was kept up constantly in the donkey-boiler, not
alone for the electric light and the daily working of the pumps--as the Kansas had not blundered
over the shoal without straining some of her plates--but for use against the naked bodies of
their possible assailants.

When day followed day without any sign of hostility, not a man on board, save Suarez and Tollemache,
paid much real heed to the shoreward peril.  Walker, with his hammers and cold chisels, his
screw-jacks and wrenches, was the center of interest.  And Walker's swarthy visage wore a permanent
grin, which presaged well for the fulfilment of his promise.  Elsie devoted herself to the
hospital.  She was thus brought more in contact with Christobal than with any of the others.
Nor did he make this close acquaintance irksome to her.  Always suave and charming in manner,
he exerted himself to be entertaining.  Though she knew full well that if the Kansas reached
the open sea again he would ask her to marry him, he was evidently content to deny himself
the privileges of courtship until a proper time and season.

She was far too wise to appear to avoid Courtenay.  Indeed, she was studiously agreeable to
him when they met.  She adopted the safe role of good-fellowship, flattering herself that her
own folly would shrink to nothingness under the hourly castigation thus inflicted.  During
this period, Mr. Boyle's changeable characteristics puzzled and amused her.  As he grew stronger,
and took part in the active life of the ship, so did his sudden excess of talkativeness disappear.
Once she happened to overhear his remarks to a couple of Chileans who were told to swab off
the decks.  Obviously, they had scamped their work, and Boyle expostulated.  Then she grasped
the essential element in Boyle's composition.  He was capable only of a single idea.  When
he was chief officer he ceased to be an ordinary man; the corollary was, of course, that he
ceased to use ordinary language.

She was in her cabin, and dared not come out while the tornado raged. She did not know that
Tollemache was listening, too, until she heard him ask:

"Did you ever meet any fellow who could swear harder than you, Boyle?"

"Yes, once," was the curt answer.

"He must have been a rotter.  What did he say?"

"Huh! just the regulation patter, but he used a megaphone, so I gave him best. . . ."

But, so far as Elsie was concerned, Boyle's fund of reminiscence had dried up.

After the midday meal on Christmas day--a sumptuous repast, for the due preparation of which
Elsie had come to the Chilean cook's assistance in the matter of the plum-pudding--Suarez suddenly
reported that a new column of smoke was rising from Guanaco Hill, a crag dominating the eastern
side of the bay.  The hill owed its name, he explained, to a large cave, in which a legendary
herd of llama was said to have its abode.  Probably there had never been any llama on the island,
but the Indians were frightened of the cave, with its galloping ghosts, and would not enter
it.  He was unable to attribute any special significance to the signal on that particular place.
During the five years with the Alaculof tribe he had never seen a fire lit there before.  That,
in itself, was a fact sinister and alarming.

Suarez had sufficient tact not to make this statement publicly.  He told Christobal, and the
doctor passed on the information to the captain.  Both men went to the poop with their glasses,
and carefully examined the coast line.

Courtenay was the first to break an oppressive silence, and his low pitched voice announced
stirring tidings.

"Do you see those canoes yonder?" he said.

"There were three under the trees before Suarez discovered the smoke on Guanaco.  Now I fancy
I can make out nearly a dozen.  Though they are not launched, they have been put there for
some purpose.  Would you mind going forrard and asking Mr. Boyle to summon all hands on deck?
He knows exactly what to do.  Remember that I regard you and Miss Maxwell as non-combatants,
and expect you both to remain in the saloon. If these painted devils really mean to attack,
some of us will get hurt, and then your services will be of greater value than in the fighting
line.  And, if I do not see Miss Maxwell before the trouble begins, please tell her she need
fear no alarm.  We shall be able to beat off our assailants with comparative ease."

When the captain of the Kansas spoke like that there was no gainsaying him.  Even Christobal,
whose jealous suspicions were ever ready to burst into flame, was roused to enthusiasm by his
cool gallantry.

But, ere the Spaniard turned to go, a disturbing thought forced its way to his lips.

"We have every confidence in you," he said, "and I admit that it should be a simple matter
to prevent the savages from gaining the upper hand. Yet, accidents happen.  Suppose they manage
to rush your defense?"

"They will not do that while I and every other man on deck are alive. If the worst comes to
the worst, you have a revolver--"

"Yes," said Christobal.

"It will suffice for two, but not for a hundred."  The two men, united by the very bond which
threatened to bring them into antagonism, looked into each other's eyes.

"Is that your last word?" asked Christobal.

"It is."

"I feel sure that you are right.  Good-by!"

They shook hands.  They were nearer a real friendship then than either of them thought possible,
and the bond which held them was love for the same woman.

Courtenay, using his glasses again, saw that a number of Indians were launching the canoes
simultaneously.  He counted nine small craft, each holding five or six men, or men and women--at
the distance, nearly three miles, he could not be certain whether or not they all wore the
distinguishing head-dress of feathers.  Against wind and current they could not possibly reach
the ship under half an hour, and the smallness of the fleet surprised him.

He stooped and patted Joey, who was at peace with the world after a good dinner.

"We are in luck's way, pup," he said.  "These rascals might get the better of us by sheer force
of numbers, but there are not fifty of them, all told.  Poor devils!  They are coming to the
slaughter!"

The news that the Indians were advancing ran through the ship like wildfire.  Including Mr.
Boyle, Frascuelo, and those among the Chileans whose wounds were not serious, there were fourteen
men available for the defense.  Unfortunately, the supply of firearms was inadequate.  A shot-gun
and five revolvers constituted the armory, and one of the pistols was in Christobal's pocket.
The supply of ammunition was so small that the revolvers could not be reloaded more than three
times; but Courtenay had two hundred shot cartridges, and, against naked men, an ounce of shot
is far more effective than a bullet.

The captain hoped to terrify the Indians before they attempted to scale the ship's sides. 
If various ruses failed, and the attack was pressed, he had decided not to split up his small
force in the effort to repel boarders.  A scattered resistance would surely break down at one
point or another: there would be a rush of savages along the decks, a panic among the Chileans,
and all would be ended.  On the other hand, when fighting collectively under European leadership,
and well aware that the Indians would kill and spare not, the half-breeds might be trusted
to acquit themselves like men.

The canvas awning constituted a flimsy citadel in the center of the vessel.  Six men were stationed
on the starboard side of the promenade deck, and six on the port side.  Tollemache and a Chilean,
who said he could shoot well, were told to frustrate any attempt to climb the after part of
the ship, while Courtenay, with his fowling-piece, would have the lion's share of this work
from the spar deck, as he undertook to keep the rails clear forward and help the revolver practise
if necessary.  With him was Suarez, who knew what was expected of him, so the language difficulty
offered no apparent hindrance once the fight began.  Finally, if the Indians made good their
footing, the defenders were to rally towards the saloon companion where steam jets were ready
to spurt withering blasts along the corridors.

It was a good plan, and might have kept at bay an enemy of higher valor than the Alaculofs,
provided they were not armed with rifles.  Against modern weapons of long range nothing could
be done.  If Suarez did not exaggerate, therein lay the real danger.  Courtenay wished to make
sure at the outset of the number of guns carried by the savages; it was also important to know
whether their marksmen were distributed, or crowded together in one or two canoes.  If the
latter, he would give those warriors his special attention.

His binocular glasses were not strong enough so he walked back towards the chart-house to procure
a telescope.  Catching Joey under his left arm, he climbed the short ladder leading to the
spar deck, and pulled it up after him, the bolts having been already removed to permit of that
being done.  Walker was screwing tight the door of the engine-room, in order to safeguard the
fireman in attendance on the donkey-boiler.  Now that the screw-driving was actually in operation,
it very unpleasantly reminded Courtenay of the fastening of a coffin lid.  Neither Walker nor
the man inside could guess the gruesome notion which held the captain in its chilly grip for
an instant; indeed, the engineer looked up with a grin.

"I suppose it's twue, sir, the-aw's goin' to be a fight?" he asked.

"There's a fair chance of one, Walker."

Walker winked suggestively.

"That chap inside thinks he's out of it," he said, "so that's all wight."  An energetic turn
of the screwdriver signified that the man from Newcastle held the opposite view.  Much as he
loved his engines, he preferred to be on deck when the trouble came.

It happened that during this slight delay Courtenay glanced at the northern headland, which
Elsie had christened Cape Templar, owing to the somewhat remarkable profile of a knight in
armor offered by its seaward crags.  Possibly, had he gone straight to the chart-house, he
might not have noticed a signal fire which was in full blast on the summit of the cliff.  It
had not been many minutes in existence, and it struck him at once that it was a vehicle of
communication between the savages in the approaching canoes and others, yet invisible, who
were expected to share in the attack.

He was quick to perceive how seriously this new peril affected his calculations.  By the time
the nine canoes he had counted were alongside the ship, there might be dozens of others ready
to help them. He leaned over the rail.

"Did you test those flexible pipes this morning?" he inquired.

"Yes, sir, they-aw in fine condition," said Walker.

"Try them again, will you?  I want to make sure.  Our lives may depend on them very soon."

He saw Suarez watching the oncoming canoes.  By a touch on the shoulder he called the man's
attention to the smoke signal on Cape Templar.  A voluble and perfervid explanation in Spanish
was useless.  Here arose the unforeseen need of an interpreter.  Without troubling to analyze
his feelings, Courtenay was glad of the excuse which presented itself of obtaining a momentary
glimpse of Elsie.

"Bring the señorita," he said, and Elsie, wondering why she had been summoned from the saloon,
ran up the bridge companion.  Her face was aglow with excitement, her heart going pit-a-pat.
She hoped that Courtenay meant to keep her near him during the fight; she almost doubted Christobal's
statement that the captain had given specific orders that she was to remain in the saloon.
It was one thing that she should wish to avoid him, but why should he wish to avoid her?

The joy in her eyes died away when she found that the captain merely required a translator.
The restraint she imposed on herself made her tongue trip.  She had to ask Suarez to repeat
his statement twice before she was able to put it into English.

"He says that the Indians only kindle a fire on that point when they want the signal to be
seen from the sea," she explained at last.  "They used it once, to his knowledge, when some
of them had gone to the island out there to kill seals.  He cannot guess what it portends to-day,
but he is quite sure that they have many more canoes at command than those which you now see
up the bay."

Courtenay could not fail to notice her agitation.  His quick intent was to soothe her.

"I am afraid my sending for you in such a hurry rather alarmed you. Suarez strikes me as a
person of nerves; he overrates the enemy, Miss Maxwell.  I think you know me well enough to
believe that I would not mislead you, and I am quite in earnest when I tell you that we shall
drive off these unfortunate wretches with comparative ease.  Why, I had it in my heart to pity
them a moment ago."

She was glad he misunderstood the cause of her agitation.

"Suarez is certainly rather dramatic," she said, smiling wistfully.  "I ought to have discounted
his Spanish mode of address.  But is it really necessary that I should remain below?"

"It is.  If shots are fired, or stones slung at us, the chart-house will probably be hit. 
Ah, yes, I am sure you would risk that, and more.  But we may sustain casualties.  And Christobal
ought to have help.  You see, I am asking you to act the braver part."

He caught her hand and looked into her eyes.  There are so many messages that can be given
in that silent language; for a blissful moment, Elsie forgot the other woman.  Not until she
had left the bridge did she realize that Courtenay, too, must have been equally forgetful.
And that was very distressing, both for her and the unknown.  But here she was, face to face
with him, and in such close proximity that she was unaccountably timid.  While her heart leaped
in tumult, she forced her lips to answer:

"You are right.  You are always right.  I was selfish in thinking that--that I--might--"

There was a pitiful quivering in the corners of her mouth.  Courtenay felt her hand tremble.

"Be a brave girl, Elsie," he murmured.  "You must go now.  Have no fear.  We are in God's care.
May His angels watch over you!"

"But you, you will not risk your life?  What shall we do if anything happens to you?"

She was strung to that tense pitch when unguarded speech bubbles forth the soul's secrets.
All she knew was that Courtenay was looking at her as a man looks at the woman he loves.  And
that sufficed.  The mere sound of her name on his lips was music.  He told her to go, yet held
her hand a willing prisoner.  His words had the sound of a prayer, but it was the orison of
a knight to his lady.  He bade her fear not, while he trembled a little himself, though she
well knew it was not fear which shook him.  Neither of them paid heed to the presence of Suarez.
For an instant they had a glimpse of heaven, but the curiously harsh voice of the Spanish miner
fell on their ears, and they came back to earth with a sudden drop.

"The Feathered People are singing their war chant," he said, and his gesture seemed to ask
them to listen.  They started apart, and it was not Elsie alone who blushed.  Courtenay crimsoned
beneath the tan on his face, and pretended a mighty interest in the doings of the savages.
The girl recovered her self-control more rapidly.  She half whispered the meaning of the miner's
cry, whereon Courtenay tried to laugh.

"They will be singing a dirge next," said he with a jaunty confidence. "Now, Elsie, off with
you!  Be sure I shall come and tell you when you may appear on deck."

She hurried away.  She recked naught of the Alaculof challenge.  Though the raucous notes of
the tuneless lay could be heard plainly enough, they did not reach her ears.  When she raced
down the saloon companion she found Christobal bending over the small case of instruments he
always carried.  He straightened himself in his peculiarly stiff way.

"What did the captain want?" he asked, with a suspicious peevishness which, for once, detracted
from his habitual courtesy.  The note of distrust jarred Elsie back into her senses.

"He wished me to translate Señor Suarez's explanation of another smoke signal," she answered.

"Oh, was that all?"

"Practically all."

"He told you himself, I suppose, that he wished you to stay here."

"He did more.  He drove me away."

"Against your will?"

"No.  Am I not one of the ship's company?  Is he not the centurion?  He says to this woman,
Go, and she goeth, nor does she stand upon the order of her going.  Oh, please don't look at
me as if I were cracked. Surely one may mingle the Bible and Shakespeare in an emergency?"

"One may also tear linen sheets into strips," said Christobal, gravely. Elsie's quip had saved
the situation.  He attributed her flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes to the fever of the threatened
fight.

She applied herself eagerly to the task.  Already the fume and agony of vain regret were striving
to conquer the ecstasy which had flooded her whole being.  She remembered that passionate longing
to be clasped in Courtenay's arms which she experienced when she saw him in the canoe, and
now, after draining to the dregs the cup of bitterness she had forced on herself during these
later days, here she was, ready as ever to quaff the love potion.  Poor Elsie!  She longed
for the waters of Lethe; haply they are denied to young women with live blood in their veins.

Courtenay, meanwhile, was examining the advancing flotilla.  His brain was conning each detail
of the Alaculof array, but his heart was whispering gladly:

"In another moment you would have kissed her and told her you loved her.  You know you would,
so don't deny it!  Ah! kissed her, and held her to your breast!"

So Suarez spoiled a pretty bit of romance by his ruffling agitation over some bawl of savage
frenzy, for Courtenay, of course, would have laughed away the girl's protests that she was
usurping another woman's place.  It was really a pity that the man from Argentina had not found
something else to occupy his mind at that precise juncture in the affairs of two young people
who were obviously mated by the discriminating gods.  A good deal of suffering and heartburning
would then have been avoided; but perhaps it was just the whim of fate that the captain's love
affair should follow the irregular course mapped out for his ship, and the Kansas was not yet
re-launched on the ocean high-road to London, no, not by any manner of means.

In fact, if the confident demeanor of the paddling warriors in the canoes were destined to
be justified, the big steamer was in parlous state.  Her vast bulk and sheer walls of steel
did not daunt them. They came on steadily against the rapid current, and spread out into a
crescent when within a few hundred yards of the ship.  Then three men, crouching in the bows
of different canoes, produced rifles hitherto invisible and began to shoot.  The bullets ricochetted
across the ripples, and Courtenay saw that the savages did not understand the sighting appliances.
They were aiming point-blank at the vessel, in so far as they could be said to aim at anything,
and the low trajectory caused the first straight shot to rebound from the surface of the water
and strike a plate amidships.  The loud clang of the metal was hailed by the Alaculofs with
shouts of delight.  Probably they had no fixed idea of the distance the tiny projectiles would
carry.  Joey began to bark furiously, and the Indians imitated him.  The hammer-like blow of
the bullet, the defiance of the dog, and the curiously accurate yelping of the men in the canoes,
mixed in wild medley with the volleyed echoes of the firing now rolled back from the opposing
cliffs.  In such wise did the battle open.  Courtenay, more amused than anxious, did not silence
the terrier, and Joey's barking speedily rose to a shrill and breathless hysteria.  Some savage,
more skilled than his fellows, reproduced this falsetto with marvelous exactness.  There never
was a death struggle heralded by such grotesque humor; it might have been a tragedy of marionettes,
a Dutch concert on the verge of the pit.

The long-range firing was kept up for several minutes, much to Courtenay's relief, as Suarez
was certain that the Indians' stock of cartridges did not amount to more than four hundred
at the utmost.  The canoes crept gradually nearer, and bullets began to strike the ship frequently.
One glanced off a davit and shattered a couple of windows in the chart-house.  This incident
aroused even greater enthusiasm than the first blow of the attack.  There was renewed activity
among the paddle wielders.  Two canoes were not fifty yards from the most southerly floating
mine.  Courtenay commenced to haul in the slack of one among the half-dozen thin cords: he
turned to tell Suarez to be ready for the duty which had been entrusted to him, when his glance
happened to travel towards the mouth of the bay.

Then he learnt the significance of that column of smoke on the northern point.  A fleet of
at least forty canoes was advancing on the ship from the sea.  Tide and paddles were swinging
the small craft along at a spanking pace.  They were already much nearer the vessel than the
first batch of Indians, who had very cleverly contrived to enlist the attention of the defenders
while the real attack was developing without let or hindrance.  It was a smart ruse, worthy
of a race of higher attainments than the tribe which is ranked lowest in the human scale. During
long days of patient watching, they had probably estimated to a nicety the number of men on
board.  They reasoned that a show of force to the south would draw all eyes from the north,
and the stronger squadron of canoes might be enabled to run under the bows of the ship so speedily
and quietly that the occupants of the leading craft, men who could climb like monkeys, stood
some chance of gaining the deck unobserved.  That this was their design was proved by the abstention
of the newcomers from firing or stone-slinging.  They were gathering with the speed and silence
of vultures.

Two mines protected the front of the Kansas, and several canoes had passed them.  Indeed, Courtenay
soon found that some of the assailants were already screened by the ship's bows, but the larger
number were clustered thickly round Tollemache's infernal machines.  It was well that a cool-headed
sailor was called on to deal with this emergency. The captain of the Kansas even smiled as
he appreciated the full meaning of the trick which his adversaries had tried to play on him,
and the man who smiles in the face of danger is one to be depended on.

The six cords were numbered.  He dropped No. 2, which he was holding, and seized Nos. 4 and
5.  He drew them in, hand over hand, as rapidly as possible, but careful not to sacrifice a
smooth tension to undue hurry.  In a few seconds two deafening reports split the air, the glass
front of the chart-house shook, pieces of the broken panes rattled on the floor, several scraps
of iron, bolts, nuts and heavy nails fell on the decks and hatches, and a tremendous hubbub
of yells came from the main body of Indians.  A couple of heavily charged dynamite bombs had
burst in their midst, dealing death and destruction over a wide area. Several canoes near the
floating platforms were torn asunder and sank, while men were killed or wounded out of all
proportion to the number of craft disabled.

Courtenay at once picked up the governing cord of the mine which he was about to fire in the
first instance.  He felt that the Alaculof flotilla would act in future on the "once bitten
twice shy" principle where those innocent-looking little poles showed above sea level, and
he must strike fierce blows while the opportunity served.  The nine canoes on the south were
not clustered around the bomb in the same manner as the others, but they were near enough to
sustain heavy loss, and their affrighted crews had ceased to ply their paddles.  So he fired
that shell also, and had the satisfaction of seeing two more of the frail craft capsize.

He heard the crash of bullets against the ship's sides; a volley of stones smashed several
more panes of stout glass; many arrows were embedded in the woodwork: but he calmly pulled
another cord, and blew a single loud blast on the siren.  That was the agreed signal to warn
those below that they must expect to be attacked from the fore part of the vessel.  His shot-gun
was lying on the table.  He took it up, and faced forward again; several canoes were scurrying
past and away from the ship as fast as the current and many arms could propel them.  He fired
both barrels at those within range on the port side.  He reloaded, and the sharp snapping of
revolver-shots told him that Tollemache and the Chilean were busy.

But the Indians were demoralized by the complete failure of their scheme.  They had ceased
firing and stone-slinging; they were flying for their lives.  Courtenay wheeled round on Suarez.

"Now!" he cried, pointing to a speaking-trumpet.  Suarez ran out on deck, put the megaphone
to his mouth, and roared after the discomfited enemy a threat of worse things in store if they
dared to come near the ship again.  As he used the Alaculof language, the sounds he uttered
were the most extraordinary that Courtenay had ever heard from a human throat--a compound of
hoarse, guttural vowels, and consonants ending in a series of clicks--and the stentorian power
of his lungs must have amazed the Indians.

Courtenay saw that the two fleets were combining forces about five hundred yards to westward.
They were close inshore, but none of the savages landed, nor did they head for the more remote
Otter Creek.  As he was anxious to keep them on the run, he resolved to try the siren again.
He judged rightly, as it transpired, that they would fear the bellow of the fog-horn even more
than the flying missiles which had dealt death and serious wounds so lavishly.

He knew sufficient Spanish, eked out by signs, to bid Suarez hold the siren cord taut for a
minute.  While the Kansas was still trumpeting forth her loud blare of defiance, he ran down
the bridge companion. Mr. Boyle and the tiny garrison of the port promenade deck received him
jubilantly; they had escaped without a bruise, and, owing to their position, were able to witness
the Indians' retreat.

He raced across to starboard, and found that, by unfortunate mischance, a Chilean fireman in
Tollemache's detachment had been shot through the brain.  The poor fellow was prone on the
deck; it was only too evident that a doctor's skill could avail him naught, so Tollemache had
decided that he should not be taken below.  The incident marred an easily won victory.  Courtenay
was assured in his own mind that none of the men had been injured, seeing that he and Suarez,
who occupied the most dangerous position, were untouched.  This fatality was a mere blunder
of fate, and it grieved him sorely.

Even while he bent reverently over the unlucky Chilean's body, the deafening vibration of the
fog-horn ceased, and he heard Elsie's glad cry from the saloon:

"Oh my, here comes Joey!  That means that Captain Courtenay has left the bridge."

The girl's joyous exclamation, her prelude to a paean of thanks that the dreadful necessary
slaying of men had ceased, was a strange commentary on the shattered form stretched at the
commander's feet. Among the small company on board, it had been decreed that one, at least,
after surviving so many perils, should never see home and kin again.

He gave orders that the dead man should be carried to the poop to await a sailor's burial;
then he turned, and with less sprightly step descended the main companion.  In the saloon he
found Elsie and Christobal watching the stairs expectantly.  The girl had the dog in her arms,
and Courtenay perceived, for the first time, that Joey's off fore paw had been cut by the broken
glass which littered the floor of the chart-house.

"Then the attack has really failed?" was Elsie's greeting.  "I saw some of the canoes turn
and scurry away.  That was the first good sign.  And then Joey came."

"You saw them?" repeated Courtenay, his bent brows emphasizing the question.

"Yes.  I was looking through one of the ports.  Was that wrong?"

"Which one?"

She pointed.  "That one," said she, wondering that he had never a smile for her.

"Then you must obey orders more faithfully next time.  A man was shot dead by a stray bullet
not three feet above your head."

She paled, and her eyes fell before his stern gaze, which did not deceive her at all, for she
read the unspoken agony of his thought.

"I am sorry," she murmured, "not so much on my own account, though I shall be more careful
in future, but because some one has suffered. Who is it?  Not one of our own people, I hope?"

"A fireman; I think his name is Gama.  You have hardly seen him, I fancy, but I regret his
loss exceedingly.  It must have been the merest accident."

The captain of the Kansas was certainly preoccupied, or he would never have failed to inquire
the extent of Joey's injury.  Nor would either he or Elsie have forgotten that Christobal was
not "one of our own people," though the girl might protest hotly against any invidious twisting
of the phrase.

The Spaniard missed nothing of Courtenay's solicitude for Elsie's well-being, nor of her shy
confusion.  By operation of the occult law which governs static electricity, it was possible
that the magnetism flowing between those two communicated itself to a third person. However
that might be, Christobal was under no sort of doubt that, unless another "accident" intervened,
he had lost all chance of winning this woman's love.

But he swallowed the bitter knowledge and said:

"If you undertake to hold the dog, Miss Maxwell, I will bind his paw."

"Oh, my ducky darling little pet!  Did I actually forget all about his dear wounded little
foot?  And he came hopping in so bravely, too, carrying himself with such a grand air.  Come,
then, Joey dear!  Let us see what has happened.  Yes, this is the doctor, but he won't hurt
you. He is so good and kind to little dogs; he will wrap up the bleedy part until it is quite
nice and comfy."

"Your only patient, doctor," said the captain, cheerily, when Elsie had done fondling the dog.
"Even crediting our poor fireman to the enemy's score, we have had the best of the first round."

"Is there any likelihood of a second attack?"

"I hope not.  Indeed, I shall be very much surprised if they show up again."

"Ah, that is excellent.  Our young lady here does not thrive on excitement, especially of the
murderous variety.  She is on the verge of a high fever."

"Then she can calm down now; there will be no more fighting to-day," said Courtenay, with a
smiling glance at Elsie which told her quite plainly that Christobal did not really know what
he was talking about. Which goes to prove that even a prudent man may say mistaken things,
with both his tongue and his eyes.

CHAPTER XIV

THE FIRST WATCH

On his way back to the deck, the captain encountered Suarez.  The man's gestures, and the satisfaction
which lit up his wrinkled face, would have told the news he wished to convey if Courtenay were
not able to catch the words "Indianos" and "van."  In his excitement the Spaniard pulled the
Englishman towards one of the peep-holes in the canvas screen.  Sure enough, the canoes were
making off towards Otter Creek. In the marvelously clear light it was easy to see the threatening
arms held out towards the ship by a few men who stood upright.  Even their raucous cries were
yet audible.  Courtenay was glad he had not missed this demonstration of hatred.  It argued
the necessity of continued watchfulness.

The general attitude of the crew was one of real annoyance that the fight had not been carried
on at close quarters.  They had heard a good deal of noise and yelling, the starboard squad
had experienced the thrill of having a man fall dead in their midst, but, with the exception
of Tollemache and the Chilean marksman, the main body of the defenders took no part in the
fray and saw but little of it.  And it is one of human nature's queer proclivities that it
seeks rather than shirks a combat when the loins are girt for the smiting.

Walker, though eager to return to his lathe, was no exception to the rule.  He looked a trifle
discontented when the captain found him unscrewing the engine-room hatch.

"That was a pwetty poo-aw scwap, sir," said he.  "I did expect to have a smack at some of those
magpies, if only for the sake of washin' the paint an' feath-ahs off 'em with a jet of steam."

"They came quite near enough to be pleasant, Walker.  Their flank march was almost a surprise;
if a swarm of vicious savages had succeeded in reaching the decks--well, we might have beaten
them off, but it would have been touch and go."

"Mebbe you-aw wight, cap'n.  'Best look at a bull ov-ah a fence,' as they say in the Canny
Toon.  Eh, but I'll have a fine tale to tell when next I meet my butties on the Quay-side.
Did ye ev-ah see such faces as yon, all daubed wi' black an' white!  Talk about Chirgwin--"

Courtenay smiled and passed on.  He was in no mood for jesting: the death of the Chilean fireman
had damped his high spirits.  The Kansas bore tokens in plenty of the battle.  Many bullets
and arrows had struck the ship; the canvas was torn in several places; a number of port lights
were broken, and the open decks fore and aft, as well as the spar deck, were littered with
stones.  He picked up some of these missiles, man's earliest and latest projectile.  They were
round and heavy; a few bore the red streaks of oxidized iron; some appeared to be veritable
lumps of ore, though the action of water had made them "smooth stones out of the brook."  He
showed one to Tollemache, who seemed to possess a good deal of out-of-the-way knowledge, and
the latter instantly pronounced the specimen to be almost pure copper veined with silver.

"Queer thing!" he commented.  "You find the worst rotters in any country squatted over the
richest minerals."

At the time, Courtenay gave slight heed to this bit of crude philosophy.  It was not until
he called to mind the Kaffir, the Australian black, the Alaskan Indian, the primeval nomads
of California, Colorado, and Northern Siberia, that he saw how extraordinarily true was his
friend's dictum.  Then he looked on the shores of Good Hope Inlet with a new interest.  Would
a city ever spring up in that desolate land, a city builded of those pebbles which had clattered
against the solid walls of the Kansas?  Who could tell? The long romance of gold contained
stranger chapters.

But the captain had more important things with which to bother his brains than the fanciful
laying out of corner lots on the comparatively level bluff overlooking Otter Creek.  He saw
to the reverent burial of poor Pietro Gama, entered full details of the fight in the ship's
log, and helped Walker to search the suspected coal for a further supply of dynamite, as the
utility of the surface mines had been demonstrated beyond a doubt.  He thought it possible,
given the necessary time, to rig a device which would be practically invisible.  A fresh set
of dummy poles, which the Indians would probably avoid in the event of a second attack, might
deflect the canoes into the area of new mines laid at sea level.

Their utmost diligence brought to light no further supply of the explosive.  Evidently, the
prepared lumps of coal, each containing a stick of dynamite, which were placed among the bunker
at Valparaiso, had been conveyed on board by one man, so it was more than likely there was
not another ounce of the stuff on the ship except the three specimens first discovered.  These,
water-soaked and useless, were locked in a drawer in the chart-house.

While scrutinizing the bunker, Courtenay found a grimy piece of paper, crushed into a ball
and amalgamated with coaldust by means of the glue, or other substance, which had been used
for making the bombs intended for the destruction of the furnaces.  He examined it carefully,
believing it had the appearance and texture of cartridge paper.  He placed it in his pocket,
and, while changing his clothes before joining the others at supper, came on it again with
a certain surprise.  He plunged it into a basin of hot water, and it yielded its secret.  It
was the outer wrapper of a stick of dynamite; it bore the circular stamp of the manufacturers,
the "Sociedad Anonyma de las Costas del Pacifico."  This, in itself, meant nothing.  The same
company probably supplied hundreds of mines with the five-pound boxes in which dynamite is
packed, and, if the stamp were the only clue, none could possibly say when or where it had
been issued for use.

But miners are apt to be careless; men accustomed to dynamite will handle it with an astounding
disregard for danger.  And here was a case in point.  Some Spanish overseer, evidently at a
loss for a memorandum tablet, had scribbled hieroglyphics with an indelible pencil on this
particular wrapper.  It was clear that the figures and abbreviated words referred to the development
of a cross-heading and the position of certain lodes, but Courtenay was quick to see that the
official who made those notes would recognize them.  Hence, the mine or store from which the
package had been stolen or bought could be identified.  Such evidence was of high circumstantial
value.  Courtenay put the wrapper in the same drawer as the cartridges, entered in the log
the time and manner of its discovery, and forthwith dismissed it from his mind.

It was almost dark when he went on deck.  The wind was keen and chilly. It whistled through
the broken windows of the wheel-house, and seemed to have in it a promise of bad weather. 
But a glance aloft and at the sky beyond the southern headland--Point Kansas, as it was called
on board--reassured him.  The far-flung arc overhead was cloudless.  The stars of the southern
hemisphere, vivid and bright, though less familiar than those of the north, were reflected
in the black water. The ship was so still, the surroundings so peaceful, save for the plash
of tiny waves created by the breeze, that he was almost startled when a soft voice came from
the lower deck:

"Where in the world have you been, Captain Courtenay?  Joey is fretting for you, and I have
carried him all over the ship in vain search."

His heart jumped with gladness.  Elsie was awaiting him at the foot of the companion.  Be sure
he was by her side without needless delay.  The dog wriggled in her arms, so she said:

"I don't think he ought to run about.  His dear little paw is rather badly cut, and there may
be more broken glass on the deck."

"I hope not, for our Chileans' sake," laughed Courtenay.  "I heard Mr. Boyle telling them to
sweep it up, and they were hard at work when I went to my cabin."

"Oh, is that where you hid yourself?  No wonder I could not find you. Of course, Joey knew
where you were.  How stupid of me!"

"Please don't call yourself names, Elsie.  You don't deserve them. And, by the way, may I address
you by your Christian name?  It slipped out to-day unawares.  Not that I feel like apologizing,
because I don't.  There are times when the heart speaks, not the guarded tongue."

Luckily, the darkness covered the hot blush which leaped to her cheeks. She gave a nervous
little laugh, and strove desperately to parry this wholly unexpected assault.

"I shall be delighted if you always call me Elsie.  It sounds friendly, and I think our circumstances
warrant a true friendship."

"Excellent.  I suppose you know that my name is Arthur?"

"Yes, but I had no notion of that sort of exchange.  You are the captain, and a very serious
sort of captain at times.  I feel like a little girl when you look at me and tell me not to
be naughty.  So 'Elsie' sounds all right, but I simply dare not call you 'Arthur.' Just imagine
what a sensation it would create in the saloon.  I should feel creepy all over.  And hadn't
we better be--"

"Elsie," said he, with a tender note in his voice which thrilled her like a chord of exquisite
music, "I want to tell you something.  The knowledge is forced on me that there is another
man on this ship who wishes to make you his wife.  But I, too, love you, and I see no reason
why I should stand aside for any man on God's earth until you tell me with your own lips that
you prefer him to me."

"Oh!" gasped Elsie, and "Oh!" again, but not another word could she utter, she who had been
so voluble a moment ago.  The bitter-sweet pain of hearing this sudden avowal was almost overpowering.
Her ideals of honor and truth were shocked; but she was a woman as well as an idealist, and
she was stirred to the depths of her soul by the knowledge that she had won the man whose love
she craved.  Yet it must not be: she could never again hold her head high if she yielded to
him. She must relinquish him, drive him away from her by an assumed coldness which would wring
her very heart-strings.  If he came nearer, if he took her in his arms, she would be unable
to resist him.  Her impulse was to fly, to lock herself in her room.  But she could not drop
the wounded dog on the deck, and Joey, satisfied by his master's presence, snuggled up close
to her breast, and made the most of his comfortable quarters.  And now, while Courtenay stroked
Joey with one hand, he placed the other on Elsie's shoulder.  What a plight for a frightened
maid who wished to escape!  Of course, because she wished that some one would come to her help,
the deck was practically deserted.  Certainly, Mr. Boyle did appear at the after end of the
corridor; but he seemed to remember something strong and urgent which the crew ought to hear,
and he turned back.

And here was Courtenay speaking again, speaking in the slow and definite way of a man who was
determined that there should be no lingering doubt as to his meaning.

"I want you to listen to me, Elsie," he said, with a passionate intensity that stilled the
rising storm in her bosom.  "Doctor Christobal may have pleaded his own cause already.  It
is not for me to cavil at him for doing that.  But I cannot lose you without a word. Whether
you marry him or me, or neither of us, I shall love you for ever.  I want you to know that.
It is no new discovery to me.  I think my heart went out to you when I carried you in my arms
through the gale, and since that hour you and I have had experiences denied to most men and
women ere they reach the conclusion that they are fit mates for the voyage of life.  Do you
feel that, sweetheart?  Have we known each other ten days, or ten years?"

His face was very near to hers now.  His arm had encroached so far that it was around her neck.
It was quite dark where they stood in the shadow of the bridge.  He could not see the tears
in her eyes, but he heard her broken answer:

"Are you--quite--fair--in using such words to me?"

"Fair, Elsie!  'Fair' to whom?"

"Because--oh, how can I tell you?  Are you free to--to speak to me in this way?"

"Elsie, I am pledged to no other woman, if that is what you mean.  Who has been telling you
otherwise?"

"No one.  Indeed, indeed, I alone am to blame.  You will be angry with me, but I could not
help it."

She could say no more.  If she had uttered another syllable just then she would have broken
down completely.  Joey did not seem to need any further fondling; hence, having a hand at liberty,
so to speak, Courtenay placed it under her chin, and lifted her unresisting lips to his.  He
kissed her twice, and laughed softly, with a glad confidence that sent a wave of delight coursing
through Elsie's veins.

"Sweetheart," he whispered, "I am sure you would not have allowed me to speak so plainly if
you were going to send me away.  Now, I don't want you to bind yourself irrevocably to-night.
That would certainly not be fair.  I don't know why I am to be angry, or what it was you couldn't
help, and I don't care a red cent.  All I want to know is this--if the Kansas brings us both
back to the outer world once more, have I as good a chance of winning your love as any other man?"

"But I must tell you.  I could not look you in the face again if you did not hear it.  When
I was left alone in your cabin, the second time, and the sea came in, a packet of letters fell
out of some clothes which I picked up from the floor.  There was one from your sister.  I hardly
knew what I was doing, but I saw her name, 'Madge,' and I read a few words on the half page
above her signature."

His left arm was now so well established that his hand touched her cheek, and he found it wet
with tears.

"What wild conceit has crept into your pretty little head?" he cried in amaze, unconsciously
raising his voice somewhat.  "A letter from my sister!  She is the most straightforward woman
breathing, I assure you. Never a line has she written to me which could bear any construction
such as seems to trouble you.  Why, on the contrary, Madge has often chaffed me for being so
like herself in giving no thought to matrimony."

"It is horrid of me to persist, but I owe it to you to tell you what I saw.  She alluded to
your 'affianced wife,' and said that 'under no other circumstances,' whatever they were, would
she receive her."

Then Courtenay laughed again, and Elsie found it was absolutely essential, if Joey were not
to be crushed, that her head should bend a little forward, with the obvious result that it
rested on Courtenay's shoulder.

"I must show you the whole of that letter," he cried, "and the others which are tied up in
the same bundle.  You will see me blush, I admit, but it will not be from a sense of perfidy.
But there is one thing you have forgotten, Elsie--" and his voice dropped to a tense whisper
again--"In telling me your secret, which is no secret, you have given me my answer.  Your heart
must have crept out a little way to meet mine, dear, or my sister's words would not have perplexed
you.  So that is why you have avoided me during the past few days!  But there!  Now, indeed,
I am not acting quite fairly.  It is unfair to ask you to confess when I want you to wait until
we win clear of our present difficulties before you decide whether or not you can find it to
your liking to make a poor sailor-man happy."

Joey was a highly accommodating dog under certain conditions.  He had curled up so complacently
that Elsie found she could hold him quite easily with one arm.  So the other went out in the
darkness until it rested timidly on her lover's disengaged shoulder.

"It is easy to confess that which is already known," she murmured. "Whether we are fated to
live one day or fifty years, it will be all the same to me, dear."

She lifted her face again to his, and would have returned the kisses he gave her were it not
that they lost their one-sided character this time.  It was an odd place for love-making, this
darkened nook on the deck of a disabled and beleaguered ship.  But a man and a woman reck little
of time or locality when the call of love's spring-time sounds in their ears.  That magic summons
can be heard but once, and it is well with the world, for those two at least, while its ecstasy
floods the soul.

There was a chance that Joey might have been partly suffocated--though, to all appearance,
he meant to die a willing martyr--had not Suarez leaned over the upper rail, and asked, in
his grating accents, if he heard the señor captain's voice below.

Elsie, all tremulous and rosy, and profoundly thankful for the darkness, withdrew herself from
Courtenay's embrace and answered the Argentine.

"Ah," said Suarez, "I am glad you are there too, señorita.  Will you tell him that I am very
hungry, and that I have not been relieved at the proper time.  I have been waiting half an
hour or more."

"There!" cried the captain, squeezing Elsie's arm, "that comes of using so many unnecessary
explanations.  I ought to have adopted the recognized Jack Tar method and just grabbed you
round the waist without ceremony.  I wonder where Boyle is.  He and Christobal take the first
watch, and it must be two bells, or later.  I will hunt them up. Good-by, sweetheart.  Meet
you at supper in ten minutes."

It was a strange and peculiar fact that Boyle had cornered Christobal in the saloon, and had
insisted on telling him various remarkable anecdotes concerning the one-legged skipper of the
Flower of the Ocean brig.  It was still more odd that when Christobal yielded to a fit of unwonted
and melancholy silence after learning from Suarez that the senor captain had been talking to
the señorita for a very long time on the promenade deck, Boyle should feel inclined to sing.

The chief officer's musical attainments were not of the highest, and his repertory was archaic.
But there must be some explanation of his unwonted and melancholy chanting.  He always spoke
of Elsie with the utmost admiration, and it was no secret that he rendered Courtenay a sort
of hero-worship hidden under the guise of an exaggerated belief in the good luck which followed
the captain of the Kansas in all his doings.  And then, with a chilling inspiration, Christobal
knew why the chief officer had caused him to miss the hour for relieving the watch. Boyle had
seen those two together, and had planned to leave them undisturbed!

The Spaniard was a dignified man; he had inherited from his English mother a saving sense of
humor.  It was intolerable that the pleasant relations existing between the few survivors on
board the Kansas should be disturbed by reason of any failure on his part to acquiesce in Elsie's
right to bestow her affections where she listed.  He wondered if the girl had come on deck
after supper; her habit was to retire early, as she rose soon after the sun.  He had seen her
for a moment only in passing out of the saloon, and there was a suspicious brightness in her
eyes for which solicitude on the dog's behalf would hardly account.  Why not put his fortunes
to the test that night and have done with it?  Yes, that was the right course.  He would cease
this petty watchfulness, this campaign of planning and contriving lest others should monopolize
more of her smiles and pleasant words than he. A simple question would determine his fate.
Either she was heart-whole, or not; at any rate, he would receive a straight answer.

So it was on the cards that Elsie would be the amazed recipient of two proposals in one evening,
which is a better average than most women are favored with in a lifetime.  Christobal had entered
the chart-house with the fixed intent of warning Boyle that he was going below for a moment
to ask Miss Maxwell to come on deck, when a hurried step on the bridge companion caused the
imminent words to be withheld.

It was Courtenay, who had run up from the saloon to procure those fateful letters which had
so nearly parted Elsie and himself.  He had laughingly refused to tell her their history. 
That would spoil their effect, he said.  She must take them to her state-room and read them
at her leisure.  Then she would see their true inwardness, and his feelings would be spared,
as he could not deny that the majority of them had been written by ladies.

On his way, he looked into the wheel-house.  There was no light in the interior.  Boyle, wrapped
in a heavy coat, was seated in the most sheltered corner.

"All quiet?" asked the captain, in his brisk way.

"Nothin' doin', sir," answered Boyle.

"I expect you are both feeling pretty tired.  Tollemache and I propose to relieve you at six
bells."

"But why?" demanded Christobal.  "It is you who have passed an exciting day.  I am ready to
mount guard until dawn.  Tollemache can join me now if he likes, as Mr. Boyle ought to be in bed."

"I'm all right," said Boyle, gruffly.  "I am only sitting here because my back is stiff."

Courtenay glanced at the somber shadow of Point Kansas, silhouetted against the deep blue of
the seaward arc.

"Suarez has retired to roost," he said.  "He seems to be quite assured that the Indians will
never deliver a night attack."

"To-day's hammering should teach them to leave the Kansas alone in future," said Christobal.

"I hope so, but Suarez and Tollemache agree that they are most persistent wretches.  Now, Boyle,
you must obey the doctor.  I am going back to the saloon to give Miss Maxwell some documents
I wish her to see.  Then, Tollemache and I will relieve the pair of you.  All right, Christobal;
I promise to take my share of the blankets in the morning. I shall be ready for a nap at four
o'clock.  At present I feel particularly wide-awake."

He went to the cabin.  They heard him unlock the door and enter.  At that instant a startling
hail came from two sailors stationed on the poop.

"Indianos!" they yelled.

The three men were on the spar deck a second later, straining their eyes into the black vagueness
of the water.

"Indianos!" shouted two other sailors on the forecastle, and from the spar deck it seemed to
be possible to distinguish several black objects moving towards the ship.

"The siren, Boyle," cried Courtenay, striking a match.  At once the swelling note of the fog-horn
smote the air and thundered away in tremendous sound waves.  Soon a hissing, fiery serpent
ran up the port wall of the chart-house, and a fine star rocket soared into the sky. It illuminated
a wide area of the bay, and revealed a number of crowded canoes darting in on the ship from
all sides.  Courtenay grasped the lines connected with the remaining mines and hauled for dear
life. Already the Indian rifle fire was crackling with vivid spurts of flame, and stones and
arrows were beginning to patter on the deck and bang against the steel plates.  Two of the
dynamite bombs exploded with the usual din, but it was impossible to ascertain their effect
owing to the yelling of the Indians.

The loud summons of the siren brought all hands from below; arms were hastily secured, the
fore and aft awnings closed, and Walker made shift to hammer the engine-room door tight.  The
increasing violence of the stone-slinging showed that the Alaculofs meant to press home this
time. Whatever their dread of the fiends who roam the world in the dark, they had conquered
it, and this latest phase in the stormy history of the ship threatened to be its most trying one.

Courtenay, who seemed to be everywhere at once, lighted torches which were fastened to the
empty davits in readiness for a night alarm.  He had used the last rocket on board, but the
flares would burn for fifteen minutes at least.  By their light the defenders were able to
shoot or smash the skulls of several savages who climbed up roughly contrived grapnells fashioned
out of bent sticks and thongs of hide. But there were only thirteen men to repel an attack
which developed at fifty points simultaneously.  Ere the torches flickered in their sockets
the savages had swarmed over poop and bows.  They were tearing at the canvas shields and sweeping
the hurricane deck with showers of missiles.  Tollemache was injured, and Walker.  Courtenay
had his forehead cut open.  Suarez fell insensible while he was bellowing curses through the
megaphone in the vain hope of frightening the determined enemy.  Two Chileans were down, one
struck with a stone and the other shot through the lungs.

So, at last, the Kansas was in the grip of a savage and implacable foe.  Courtenay, while hauling
a steam hose to the weakest point, the after part of the promenade deck, met Christobal.  He
clutched the Spaniard in a way there could be no mistaking.

"Go below!" he muttered in a terrible voice.  "I cannot leave the deck. You must go.  And,
for God's sake, don't tell her!  Let her die without knowing!"

CHAPTER XV

IN WHICH THE UNEXPECTED HAPPENS

When Christobal descended to the saloon he found Elsie holding the excited dog.  It was instantly
perceptible that she was not aware of the grave position of affairs on deck.  She knew, of
course, that the Alaculof menace had become active again, but the first attack had been beaten
off so easily that she was sure this later effort would fail.

The dog was better informed.  His alert ears told him that there were strange beings on board.
He struggled so resolutely that Elsie freed him just as the Spaniard reached the foot of the
stairs.  Forgetting his wounded paw, and all a-quiver with the fine courage of his race, Joey
galloped up the companion and disappeared.  Elsie was much distressed by her four-footed friend's
useless pugnacity.

"I could not keep him back," she said, "and I am afraid he runs some risk of being hit.  Do
you think he will go to the chart-house?  That is so exposed--Captain Courtenay is not there,
is he?"

"No.  I left him a moment ago, close to the saloon entrance."

She listened intently.  Her imagination led her astray, it was so hopelessly on the wrong tack.

"There does not appear to be so much stone-throwing now, but I suppose I ought not to go on
deck?" she cried.

"It is not to be thought of, Miss Maxwell.  Indeed, the captain asked me to come and bear you
company."

"Just fancy those horrid Indians venturing to approach the ship to-night after the dreadful
lesson they received this afternoon!  And what will poor Señor Suarez say?  He was so positive
that they would never come near us after dark."

"I saw him, also, on the promenade deck," answered Christobal quietly. "He had very much the
semblance of a false prophet."

The Spaniard meant to meet grim fate with a jest on his lips.  He had seen Suarez lying dead
or insensible close to the rails.  In fact, the unlucky Argentine was only separated by the
thickness of the ship's deck from the table near which Elsie was standing.  Unless he were
speedily rescued he would bleed to death.

"Ah, I heard Joey barking.  He has gone aft," cried Elsie.  "And what is that?" she added,
moving suddenly towards the center of the saloon. She had caught the fierce hiss of steam,
and she was well aware that steam would only be brought into use if the Indians were endeavoring
to climb the ship's sides: not yet had it occurred that they could possibly be on board.

"Some of our friends the enemy have come near enough to be scalded," said the man, coolly.
"That should soon drive them away.  You are not frightened, I hope?"

"Not a bit.  My only regret is that I am not permitted to help in the defense.  It must be
irksome for you, Dr. Christobal, to be stationed here when the ship is in danger.  I am certain
you would prefer to be up there with the others."

"Thank you for saying that.  I wish you were able to read all my thoughts as accurately."

His right hand went to the pocket in which he had placed the revolver. The stock appeared to
have a peculiar clamminess as his fingers closed around it.  Though he was proud of the iron
nerve which had won him repute in his profession, he almost prayed now that it might not fail
him at the last.  What a horror, to be compelled with his parting glance to see this bright
and gracious woman crumple up on the deck!

"But I know you are a brave man," she said with a confidant smile.  "It demanded a higher courage
to pass undaunted through the ordeal of the storm than to face these ill-armed Indians.  Please
don't think I am a warlike person, but it makes my blood boil to find that there are wretches
who regard our distress as their opportunity to murder us and pillage the ship.  What have
we done to them?  If they are poor and hungry, and they would only come to us in a peaceful
way, Captain Courtenay would give them all the stores he could spare."

Christobal heard ominous sounds from the fore part of the vessel.  The revolver shooting had
ceased, for the convincing reason there were no more cartridges.  Courtenay's double barrelled
gun was being fired as quickly as he could reload it, and the sharp snap of one of the rifles
in the Indians' possession was recognizable as coming from the poop, the remaining marksmen
having preferred to fire wildly from their canoes.  But Christobal knew that a deadly struggle
was in progress on the fore deck.  Tollemache, Frascuelo, and three Chileans were engaged in
a hand-to-hand fight with nearly a score of savages; the doctor could distinguish the cries
of the combatants, the irregular stamping of boot-shod feet.

He wondered why the girl, with her acute senses, did not grasp the significance of the yells
and trampling on the deck, until it occurred to him, with a quick pang, that she was listening
for one voice alone; owing to her ignorance of the desperate nature of the conflict raging
overhead she had ears for nothing further.

He placed a hand on her shoulder.  She turned and looked at him.  There was a gravity in his
eyes, which startled her.

"Elsie," he said, "you believe in the efficacy of prayer, don't you? Well, then, pray now a
little.  I shall be glad to think, when this time of danger has passed, that we owed something
to your invocation."

It was in his mind that he must shoot her within a few seconds, and the immeasurable agony
of the thought reflected itself in his face.  He had no notion that she would give his words
a more direct significance than he intended them to bear.  But a strange, hoarse yell of triumph,
the war-cry of an Alaculof leader who had hauled himself to the bridge and found it undefended,
warned her in the same moment that all was not well with the defense.

She sprang towards the saloon stairs.

"Do you hear that?" she cried in a ringing voice.  "There are Indians on board.  Come!  We
must not stay here when our friends are fighting for their lives."

Christobal knew that this active girl would readily outstrip him in a race to the deck.  She
was already several feet distant, but he must detain her, no matter what the cost; if she fell
into the clutches of the ghouls then over-running the Kansas, she might not be killed, but
only wounded, and her sufferings would be inconceivable ere the end came.

"You are wrong," he shouted with convincing vehemence.  "But, if you wish to see for yourself,
at least allow me to go first."

While he was speaking, he ran forward.  She thought he meant what he said, and waited for him.
Then he caught her right arm firmly in his left hand.

"Let us wait here a moment or two," he breathed.

"No, no; I am going now.  You shall not hold me back.  You don't understand.  The man I love
is up there, perhaps surrounded by savages. Let me go, I tell you!  If he is dying I shall
die by his side.  Let me go!  Would you have me strike you?"  She turned on him like an angry
goddess, and strove to wrest herself from his grip.  At that instant Tollemache and Frascuelo,
the only survivors of the deadly struggle forward, were driven back by a rush of Indians. 
They caught sight of others leaping down the bridge companion.

"To the saloon, Courtenay!" roared Tollemache, clearing a path for himself with an iron bar
which he swung in both hands.  Followed by Frascuelo, he jumped inside the saloon gangway.
Four savages followed, two entering through the doorway behind him.  One raised a hatchet-like
implement, and would have brained the Englishman had not Christobal whipped out his revolver
and shot him through the body, releasing the girl's wrist in his flurry.  The Indian pitched
headlong down the stairs, falling limply at Elsie's feet.  She stooped over the terrifying
figure and seized the man's weapon.  Her eyes shone with a strange light.  She felt her arms
tingle.  A wonderful power seemed to flow through her body, like a gush of strong wine.  She
was assured that she, unaided, could beat down all the puny, despicable creatures who barred
the path to her lover.  She vaulted over the writhing form of the Alaculof, and made to climb
the stairs, but Christobal, admirably cool, fired again and brought another Indian to his knees.
The second Indian's fall caused Frascuelo to trip; and the Chilean, locked rib to rib with
a somewhat sturdy opponent, rolled into the saloon.  Elsie drew back just in time, or the two
men would have knocked her down.  Even as they were turning over on the steep steps she saw
Frascuelo's knife seek that favorite junction of neck and collar-bone which Christobal had
said was so well understood by those of his ilk.  At the foot of the stairs the Indian lay
still, and Frascuelo tried to rise.  She helped him gladly.  The awfulness of this killing
no longer appalled her.  Each dead or disabled Indian was one less obstacle between her and
Courtenay.  A third time the revolver barked, but Christobal missed.  It did not matter greatly,
as Tollemache had shortened his bar, using it twice as a miner delves at a rock.  But the doctor
did not forget that he had only three cartridges left, two of which were bespoke long before
the fight began.

At last, then, the way was clear.  Elsie would have mounted the stairs but an appealing hand
detained her.

"I cannot walk, señorita.  My leg has given way.  And we can do no good there.  They are all down."

A death chill gripped her heart at Frascuelo's words.

"All down!" she repeated, white-lipped.

"I think so," said he, blankly.  The man was dazed by the ordeal through which he had passed.

As if to answer and refute him, Joey's hysterical yelp sounded from a point close at hand,
and they distinctly heard Courtenay's loud command:

"This way, Boyle!  Rally to the bridge!"

"You are mistaken!" shrieked Elsie, wrenching herself free from the Chilean's grasp.  Nothing
short of violence would stop her now. Tollemache darted out into the darkness, and she mounted
the steps two at a time.  Christobal panted by her side.  He was determined not to be parted
from her: if necessary, he would drag her away from any doubtful encounter on the battle-field
of the deck.  But his blood was aflame now with the lust of combat.  He wished to die fighting
rather than by a suicide's bullet.

They were not yet clear of the doorway when an extraordinary burst of cheering and shouts in
English and Spanish assailed their wondering ears.  The sounds seemed to come from the sea,
from some point very near to the ship.  A loud hubbub arose among the Indians; Courtenay, clubbing
his gun, rushed past, with the dog at his heels, and ran up the bridge companion.  They could
follow his progress as he raced towards the port side, and they heard his amazed cry:

"What boats are those?"

"Your own, captain," came the answering yell, plainly audible above the din.

"That is Mr. Gray," screamed Elsie, and she, too, ran towards the bridge, with the doctor close
behind.

"Sink every canoe you can get alongside of, and knock those fellows on the head who are swimming,"
roared Courtenay, who was so carried away by the fierceness of the fight from which he had
just emerged that he would have given the same directions to the archangel Michael had that
warrior-spirit come to his aid.

He seemed to have eyes in the back of his head, he turned so suddenly when Elsie neared him.

"Ah, thank God you are safe!" he said, drawing her to him for an instant.  "Stand there, dear
heart!"

He placed her in the forward angle of the bridge rail, and leaned out over the side.  She understood
that she must not speak to him then, but a great joy overwhelmed her, and her eyes melted into
tears.

Christobal, who had missed no word of Elsie's frenzied protest in the saloon, nor failed to
note the manner of Courtenay's greeting, seemed to take the collapse of his own aspirations
with the unmoved stoicism he had displayed in the face of danger.

"The ship's boats--" he began, but the captain raised his gun and fired twice aft along the
side of the vessel.  Cries of pain and a good deal of splashing in the sea proved that he had
expedited the departure of several Indians who were perched on the rails beyond the reach of
Walker's steam jet.

"The ship's boats," went on Christobal calmly, "have turned up in some mysterious manner, just
in the nick of time.  A few minutes more, and they would have been too late."

"But where have they come from?  Where can they have been all these days?" whispered Elsie,
whose eyes were so dimmed that she perforce abandoned the effort to make out what was going
on in the sea near the ship.

"My brain reels under the wildest guesses.  At present we are chiefly concerned in the fact
that they are here.  Yet people say that the age of miracles has passed: obviously a foolish
remark."

Those who have been plucked from the precipice by a sleeve, as it were, are seldom able to
concentrate their attention on the one thought which should apparently swamp all others.  They
either yield to the strain, and lapse into unconsciousness, or their minds become the arena
of minor emotions, wherein trivialities play battledore and shuttlecock with the tremendous
issues of the moment.  When a more extended knowledge of all that had happened, joined to a
nicer adjustment of the time-factor in events, enabled Elsie to realise the extraordinary deliverance
from death which she had been vouchsafed that night, she began to appreciate the service which
Christobal rendered her in discussing matters with such nonchalance.

Barely a minute had elapsed since they were in the throes of a struggle which promised to be
the last act of a tragedy.  The ship was then over-run by a horde of howling savages, maddened
by the desperate resistance offered by the defenders, and ruthless as wolves in their lust
for destruction.  Now, the Kansas was clear of every bedaubed Alaculof, save the many who cumbered
the decks, either dead or so seriously wounded that they could not move.  These men were so
near akin to animals, that this condition implied ultimate collapse save in a few instances
of fractured skulls and broken limbs.  From the final stage of a hopeless butchery the survivors
of the ship's company were suddenly transferred to a position of reasonable security.  It was
not that the arrival of the ship's boats meant such an accession of fighting strength that
the Alaculofs could not have made sure of victory.  Gray and his companions were badly armed.
The Indians remaining in the canoes could have pelted them to shreds in a few minutes.  Even
those on the ship had the power to resist any attempt by the newcomers to gain the decks. 
But the superstitious savages had already screwed themselves up to an act of unusual daring
in delivering a night attack, and the appearance of boats filled with men of whose fighting
qualities they had already such a lively experience quite demoralized them.  They fled without
attempting a counter assault. Just as negroes conjure up white demons, so did these nude Alaculofs
regard with awe men who wore clothes.  They were ready to kill and eat the strange beings of
another race who, few in numbers and ill armed, wandered into their rock-pent fastness, but
it was quite a different thing to face them in equal combat.

At last the sounds of conflict died away.  The black waters closed over the dead; the last
swimmer vanished into the silence.  The spasmodic barking of the dog, the groaning of men lying
on the decks and the shouts exchanged between Courtenay and Gray for the guidance of the boats,
were the only remaining symbols of the fiercest crisis which had yet befallen the Kansas.

Elsie, wandering through a trance-like maze of vivid impressions, awoke with a start to the
fact that Courtenay was giving directions for the lowering of the ship's gangway, meanwhile
receiving information as to the identity of the boats beneath.

"Mr. Malcolm is in charge of the jolly-boat," Gray was saying.  "Miss Baring and Mr. and Mrs.
Somerville are with him.  Miss Baring's maid is dead.  Señor Jerrera is in my boat, Number
2.  We have been on White Horse Island all this time, but we have seen nothing of the other
life-boat."

That meant that two boats out of those which quitted the ship had arrived thus opportunely.
Señor Jerrera was the Spanish mining engineer who had been hustled into one of the craft manned
by the mutineers.  And Isobel was actually sitting down there in the darkness a few feet away.
How wonderful it all was!  Elsie thought her heart would never cease its labored throbbing.
Even yet her breath came in little gasps.  How could the captain and Gray talk so coolly, as
if some of the passengers and crew were returning on board the ship after an evening ashore?
It was the bedizened savages who now assumed reality: the simple orders which dealt with the
clearing of the falls and the lowering of a ladder became wildly fantastic.

And Christobal was saying:

"Well, Miss Maxwell, you and I can look forward to a busy night.  The ship is littered with
wounded men, and our newly arrived friends must be worn with fatigue."

His smooth, even sentences helped to dispel the stupor of amazement which had made her dumb.
And the first reasoned thought which came to her was that the Spanish doctor had treated her
with the kindness of an indulgent parent, for Elsie was far too unselfish not to be alive to
the unselfishness of others.

"How good you have been to me!" she murmured.  "I can never repay you. I remember now that
I said dreadful things to you in the saloon.  But you did not know what it meant to me when
I realized that Captain Courtenay might be falling even then beneath the blows of those merciless
savages.  I have not had a chance to tell you that he has asked me to be his wife, and I have
consented.  I love him more than all the world.  And you, Dr. Christobal, you who knew my father
and mother, who have grown-up daughters of your own, you will wish me happiness?"

It was not easy to bear when it came, although he had guessed the truth already.  But he choked
back the wrath and despair which surged up in him, and said with his stately courtesy:

"I do wish you well, Elsie.  No man can hope more earnestly than I that you have made the better
choice."

Then he turned, with a certain abruptness which reminded her of the change in his manner she
had noticed once or twice during recent days, and quitted the bridge.  She sighed, and was
sorry for him, knowing that he loved her.

Courtenay, who had been far too busy to pay heed to anything beyond the brief fight between
the boats and the canoes, perceived now that the gangway was in position; lights were shining
on both the upper and lower platforms.

He stretched out his hand, and drew Elsie to him.

"Are you alone, sweetheart?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Kiss me, then, and go to meet your friends.  They will be aboard in less than a minute.  Oh,
Elsie, I thought I had seen the last of you."

