Now the middle-aged man may say that he is too old to go in for this sort of thing, that all
he wants is a little fresh air and exercise, and as much enjoyment as he can get out of playing
the game in just the same sort of way that the "other old crocks" do. He would rather play
well, of course, if it were not too late to begin; but it is too late, and there is an end
of it. That is the way in which he puts it. So large a proportion of our new converts to golf
belong to this middle-aged class, that it is worth while giving a few special words of advice
to them. Mr. Forty and Mr. Forty-Five, you are not a day too old, and I might even make scratch
men of you, if I were to take you in hand and you did all the things I told you to do and for
as long as I told you. Given fair circumstances, there is no reason why any man should despair
of becoming either a scratch player or one who is somewhere very near it, and it is as easy
to learn to play well as it is to learn to play badly.

So I advise every golfer to get hold of the game stroke by stroke, and never be too ambitious
at the commencement. I have heard it stated on very good authority that when Mr. Balfour first
began to play he submitted himself to very much the same process of tuition as that which I
am about to advise, and that under the guidance of Tom Dunn he actually spent a miserable fortnight
in bunkers only, learning how to get out of them from every possible position. The right honourable
gentleman must have saved hundreds of strokes since then as the result of that splendid experience,
trying as it must have been. He is in these days a very good and steady player, and he might
be still better if parliamentary cares did not weigh so heavily upon him. I may humbly suggest
that the way in which he began to play golf was characteristic of his wisdom.

Therefore, when the golfer has become possessed of his first set of clubs, let him proceed
to the shop of a good professional player--presumably it will be the shop where he bought his
clubs--and let him place himself unreservedly in the hands of this expert in the game. Most
professionals are good players and good teachers, and the golfer cannot go far wrong in this
matter if he allows himself to be guided by his own instincts. I say that he should place himself
unreservedly in this man's hands; but in case it should be necessary I would make one exception
to this stipulation. If he thinks well of my advice and desires to do the thing with the utmost
thoroughness from the beginning, he may request that for the first lesson or two no ball may
be put upon the ground at which to practise swings. The professional is sure to agree that
this is the best way, though he encounters so few beginners who are prepared to make all the
sacrifices that I have suggested, that he might have hesitated in recommending this course
of procedure himself.

A golfer's swing is often made for good or ill in the first week of his experience. His first
two days of practice may be of the greatest importance in fashioning his style. If, when he
takes his first lesson or two and makes his first few swings, he has a ball on the ground before
him which he is trying to hit, all his thoughts will be concentrated on what appears to him
to be the necessity of hitting it--hitting it at any cost. No matter what he has been told
about the way to swing, he will forget it all in this moment of anxiety, and swing anyhow.
In such circumstances a really natural and proper swing is rarely accomplished, and, before
the golfer is aware of the frightful injustice he has done himself, his future prospects will
probably have been damaged. But if he has no ball before him he will surely learn to swing
his club in exactly the way in which it ought to be swung. His whole mind will be concentrated
upon getting every detail of the action properly regulated and fixed according to the advice
of his tutor, and by the time he has had two lessons in this way he will have got so thoroughly
into the natural swing, that when he comes to have a ball teed up in front of him he will unconsciously
swing at it in the same manner as he did when it was absent, or nearly so. The natural swing,
or some of its best features, will probably be there, although very likely they will be considerably
distorted.

At the same time the young golfer must not imagine because he has mastered the proper swing
when there is no ball before him, that he has overcome any considerable portion of the difficulties
of golf, for even some of the very best players find that they can swing very much better without
a ball than with one. However, he may now taste the sweet pleasure of driving a ball from the
tee, or of doing his best with that object in view. His initial attempts may not be brilliant;
it is more than likely that they will be sadly disappointing. He may take comfort from the
fact that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred they are so. But by and by a certain confidence
will come, he will cease, under the wise advice of his tutor, to be so desperately anxious
to hit the ball anyhow so long as he hits it, and then in due course the correctness of swing
which he was taught in his first two days will assert itself, and the good clean-hit drives
will come. There will be duffings and toppings and slicings, but one day there will be a long
straight drive right away down the course, and the tyro will be told that the professional
himself could not have done it better. This is one of the most pleasurable moments in life.

His system of practice thereafter should be upon the following lines. He should continue to
practise diligently with his driver until he gets these good, long balls nearly every time,
sternly resisting the temptation even to so much as look at any of the other nice new clubs
that he has got in his bag, and whose mysteries he is exceedingly curious to investigate. It
may take him a week or a fortnight or a month to master the driver; but he should do it before
he gives a thought to any other club. When he can use the driver with confidence, he may take
out his new brassy and go through the same process with that, until he feels that on a majority
of occasions, from a fairly decent lie, he could depend upon making a respectable brassy shot.
He will find unsuspected difficulties in the brassy, and in doing his best to overcome them
he will probably lose to some extent the facility for driving which he had acquired. Therefore,
when he has become a player with his brassy, he should devote a short space of time to getting
back on to his drive. It will not take him long, and then he should take out both the clubs
he has been practising with and hammer away at the two of them together, until after a large
amount of extra practice he finds that he is fairly reliable in driving a ball from the tee
to begin with, and putting in a creditable second shot with his brassy from the lie upon which
he found his ball.

During this second stage of learning he must deny himself the pleasure of trying his iron clubs
just as rigorously as he restrained himself from the brassy when he was practising drives only;
but when the driver and the brassy are doing well, he may go forward with the cleek. He will
not find this learning such dull work after all. There will be something new in store for him
every week, and each new club as it is taken out of the bag will afford an entirely new set
of experiences. After the driver and the brassy it will be like a new game when he comes to
try cleek shots, and in the same way he will persevere with the cleek until it is evident that
he really knows how to use it. The driver, the brassy, and the cleek may then be practised
with on the same occasion, and if he has made the best use of his time and is an apt pupil,
he will find himself now and then, with these three shots taken in turn, getting beyond the
green at some of the longest holes. Next it will be the turn of the iron, and so in due season
he will be able to practise with the driver, the brassy, the cleek, and the iron. The mashie
will follow, and then the five of them together, and at last he may have an afternoon on the
green trying his skill with a putter, and listening for the first time to the music of the
ball--no such music as this to the golfer's ear, though it consists of but a single note--as
it drops into the tin and is holed out at last.

He is at work now with all the clubs that are usually necessary to play a hole; but at the
risk of seeming over careful I would warn him once more against going along too fast, and thinking
that even at this stage he is able to embark on match play with all the days of studentship
left behind. When he takes out his full set of clubs, he will find, in using them as occasion
demands, that he is strangely erratic all of a sudden with one or two of them. Let him have
half an hour's practice once more alone with these troublesome fellows until the old order
of things has been restored. Let him treat all other offenders in the same manner. He must
be determined that there shall not be a club in his bag that shall be allowed to play these
tricks with him. Let one day's hard labour be the invariable penalty, until at last they are
all obedient in his hands, and the joyful day comes when he feels that he can pick any tool
out of his golfing bag and use it skilfully and well, and that after examining a ball in any
lie, at any distance from the hole, or with any hazard before him, he knows exactly how it
should be played, and feels that he has a very reasonable chance of playing it in that way
and achieving the success that such a shot deserves. Such a stroke will not be brought off
correctly every time; the golfer has not yet been born who always does the right thing in the
right way. But the more one practises the more frequently will he succeed. Following Mr. Balfour's
good example, the beginner may do worse than spend a few days trying the most difficult strokes
he can discover on his links, for in actual play he will find himself in these difficult places
often enough to begin with, and a little special study of such shots at the outset will prove
a very valuable investment of time. The ball should be thrown down carelessly at different
places, and should be played from the spot at which it settles, however uninviting that spot
may be.

When he has secured a fair command over all his clubs, from the driver to the niblick, the
golf student may play a round of the links; but he should do so only under the watchful eye
of the professional, for he will find that in thus marching on from hole to hole, and perhaps
getting a little excited now and then when he plays a hole more than usually well, it is only
too easy to forget all the good methods in which he has been so carefully trained, and all
the wise maxims he knows so well by heart that he could almost utter them in his sleep. Let
him play a few rounds in this way, and in between them devote himself as assiduously as ever
to practise with individual clubs, before he thinks of playing his first match. He must settle
his game on a secure foundation before he measures his strength against an opponent, for unless
it is thus safeguarded it is all too likely that it will crumble to ruins when the enemy is
going strongly, and the novice feels, with a sense of dismay, that he is not by any means doing
himself justice. Of course I am not suggesting that he should wait until he has advanced far
towards perfection before he engages in his first match. When he has thoroughly grasped the
principles and practice of the game, there is nothing like match play for proving his quality,
but he should not be in haste thus to indulge himself. Any time from three to six months from
the day when he first took a club in hand will be quite soon enough, and if he has been a careful
student, and is in his first match not overcome with nerves, he should render a good account
of himself and bring astonishment to the mind of his adversary when the latter is told that
this is the first match of a lifetime.

During the preparatory period the golfer will be wise to limit his practices to three or four
days a week. More than this will only tire him and will not be good for his game. I have only
now to warn him against a constant attempt, natural but very harmful, to drive a much longer
ball every time than was driven at the previous stroke. He must bring himself to understand
that length comes only with experience, and that it is due to the swing becoming gradually
more natural and more certain. He may see players on the links driving thirty or forty yards
further than he has ever driven, and, wondering why, he is seized with a determination to hit
harder, and then the old, old story of the foozled drive is told again. He forgets that these
players are more experienced than he is, that their swing is more natural to them, and that
they are more certain of it. In these circumstances the extra power which they put into their
stroke is natural also. To give him an exact idea of what it is that he ought to be well satisfied
with, I may say that the learner who finds that he is putting just two or three yards on to
his drive every second week, may cease to worry about the future, for as surely as anything
he will be a long driver in good time.

In the course of this volume there are several chapters describing the way in which the various
strokes should be played, but I am no believer in learning golf from books alone. I do not
think it likely that the professional teacher who is giving the pupil lessons will disagree
with any of the chief points of the methods that I explain, and, read in conjunction with his
frequent lessons at the beginning of his golfing career, and later on studied perhaps a little
more closely and critically, I have hope that they will prove beneficial. At all events, as
I have already suggested, in the following pages I teach the system which has won Championships
for me, and I teach that system only.

It is perhaps too much to hope, after all, that any very large proportion of my readers will
make up their minds to the self-sacrificing thoroughness which I have advocated, and undertake
a careful preparation of from three to six months' duration before really attempting to play
golf. If they all did so we should have some fine new players. It is because they do not learn
to play in this way that so few good players are coming to the fore in these days. One is sometimes
inclined to think that no new golfer of the first class has come forward during the last few
years. In my opinion it is all due to the fact that nowadays they learn their game too casually.

The good golfer loves his clubs and takes a great and justifiable pride in them. He has many
reasons for doing so. Golf clubs are not like most other implements that are used in sport.
A man may go to a shop and pick out a cricket bat or a billiard cue with which he may be tolerably
certain he will be able to play something approaching to his best game when he is in the mood
for playing it. The acquaintance which is begun in the shop is complete a few days later. But
a man may see a golf club which he strongly fancies and buy it, and yet find himself utterly
incapable of using it to good advantage. He may purchase club after club, and still feel that
there is something wanting in all of them, something which he cannot define but which he knows
ought to exist if his own peculiar style of play is to be perfectly suited. Until he finds
this club he is groping in the dark. One driver may be very much like another, and even to
the practised eye two irons may be exactly similar; but with one the golfer may do himself
justice, and with the other court constant failure. Therefore, the acquisition of a set of
clubs, each one of which enjoys the complete confidence of its owner, is not the task of a
week or even a year. There are some golfers who do not accomplish it in many years, and happy
are they when at last they have done so. Then they have a very sincere attachment to each one
of these instruments, that have been selected with so much difficulty. It is not always possible
to give reasons for their excellence, for the subtle qualities of the clubs are not visible
to the naked eye. Their owners only know that at last they have found the clubs that are the
best for them, and that they will not part with them for any money--that is, if they are golfers
of the true breed. In these days I always play with the same set of irons. They are of different
makes, and to the average golfer they appear quite ordinary irons and very much like others
of their class. But they are the results of trials and tests of more than one hundred clubs.

Therefore no golfer in his early days should run away with the idea that he is going to suit
himself entirely with a set of clubs without much delay, and though his purse may be a small
one, I feel obliged to suggest that money spent in the purchase of new clubs which he strongly
fancies, during his first few years of play, is seldom wasted. Many of the new acquisitions
may be condemned after a very short trial; but occasionally it will happen that a veritable
treasure is discovered in this haphazard manner. With all these possibilities in view, the
beginner, knowing nothing of golf, and being as yet without a style to suit or any peculiar
tastes that have to be gratified, should restrain himself from the desire to be fully equipped
with a "complete outfit" at the very beginning of his career. Let him buy as few clubs as possible,
knowing that it is quite likely that not one of those which he purchases at this stage will
hold a place in his bag a year or two later. As he can have no ideas at all upon the subject,
he should leave the entire selection of his first bag to some competent adviser, and he will
not generally find such an adviser behind the counter at a general athletic outfitting establishment
in the town or city, which too often is the direction in which he takes his steps when he has
decided to play the game. In these stores the old and practised golfer may often pick up a
good club at a trifling cost; but the beginner would be more likely to furnish himself with
a set which would be poor in themselves and quite unsuited for his purpose.

The proper place for him to go to is the professional's shop which is attached to the club
of which he has become a member. Nearly all clubs have their own professionals, who are makers
and sellers of clubs, and I know no professional who is not thoroughly conscientious in this
part of his business. It pays him to give the completest satisfaction to his clients, and particularly
to the members of his own club. This professional is also a first-class golfer, who knows all,
or nearly all, that there is to be known about the game, and who in his time has had imposed
upon him the difficult task of teaching hundreds of beginners their first steps in golf. Thus
he knows better than any man the erratic tendencies of the golfing initiate and the best means
of counteracting them. Experience has given him the faculty for sizing up the golfing points
of the tyro almost at the first glance, and therefore he can supply him at the beginning with
those clubs with which certainly he will have most chance of success. He will suit his height
and his build and his reach, and he will take care that the clubs in the set which he makes
up are in harmony with each other and will have that lie which will best suit the player who
is to use them. And even though, when the beginner gathers knowledge of the game and finds
out his own style--which neither he nor the professional can determine in advance--some of
them may gradually become unsuitable to him, they are nevertheless likely to be in themselves
good clubs.

A beginner may at the outset limit himself to the purchase of six new clubs. He must have a
driver, a brassy, a cleek, an iron, a mashie, and a putter. At an early opportunity he may
add a niblick to this small set, but there is no need to invest in it at the outset, and as
this club is one which is least likely to require change, it is best that it should not be
bought until the player has some ideas of his own as to what is wanted. By way of indicating
what will be needful to make this set complete for the purposes of good golf, when the player
has obtained a fairly complete experience, I may mention the instruments that I take out when
playing an important match. I have two drivers, one brassy, a baffy or spoon, two cleeks (one
shorter than the other), an iron, sometimes one mashie, sometimes two (one for running up and
the other for pitch shots), a niblick, and sometimes two putters (one for long running-up putts
and the other for holing out). This selection may be varied slightly according to the course
on which the match is to be played and the state of the weather, but in general principles
the constitution of the bag remains the same, and a player who is equipped with such a set
ought to be able to play any hole in any way, and if he cannot do so it is his own skill that
is lacking and not an extra club. We may now consider in order a few of the points of these
clubs. I shall have occasion, when dealing with the method of play with each of them, to call
attention to many points of detail which can only be properly explained when indicating particular
objects which it is desired to achieve with them, so for the present I shall confine myself
chiefly to general features.

Take the driver to begin with, and the preliminary word of advice that I have to offer concerning
the choice of this club is at variance with the custom of the present moment, though I am confident
that before long the golfing world will again come round to my view of the matter--not my view
only, but that of many of the leading amateur and professional players. One of the problems
which agitate the mind of the golf-club maker deals with the best and most effectual method
of attaching the head of the club to the shaft. For a very long period this was done by what
we call scaring or splicing, the neck of the club having a long bevel which was spliced with
the shaft and bound round for several inches with black twine. Latterly, however, a new kind
of club has become the fashion with all but the oldest and most experienced players, and it
is called the socket driver. The continuation of the neck of this club is shorter than in the
case of the spliced driver, and instead of there being any splicing at all, a hole is bored
vertically into the end of the neck and the shaft fitted exactly into it, glued up, and finally
bound round for less than an inch. This club certainly looks neater than the old-fashioned
sort, and the man who is governed only by appearances might very easily imagine that it is
really more of one piece than the other, that the union of the shaft with the head has less
effect upon the play of the club, and that therefore it is better. But experience proves that
this is not the case. What we want at this all-important part of the driver is spring and life.
Anything in the nature of a deadness at this junction of the head with the shaft, which would,
as it were, cut off the one from the other, is fatal to a good driver. I contend that the socket
brings about this deadness in a far greater degree than does the splice. The scared or old-fashioned
drivers have far more spring in them than the new ones, and it is my experience that I can
constantly get a truer and a better ball with them. When the wood of the shaft and the wood
of the neck are delicately tapered to suit each other, filed thin and carefully adjusted, wood
to wood for several inches, and then glued and tightened up to each other with twine for several
inches, there is no sharp join whatever but only such a gradual one as never makes itself felt
in practice. Moreover, these clubs are more serviceable, and will stand much more wear and
tear than those which are made with sockets. Sometimes they give trouble when the glue loosens,
but the socketed club is much easier to break. On club links generally in these days you will
probably see more socketed drivers and brassies (for these remarks apply to all wooden clubs)
than those that are spliced; but this is simply the result of a craze or fashion with which
neat appearance has something to do; and if you desire to convince yourself that I am right,
take note of the styles of the drivers used by the best players at the next first-class amateur
or professional tournament that you witness. The men who are playing on these occasions are
ripe with experience, and so long as they get the best results they do not care what their
clubs look like.

The head of the club should be made of persimmon or dogwood--both very hard and full of driving
power. Usually the bare face of such a club is good enough for contact with any ball on any
tee, but the time will come when the golfer, developing innumerable fads and fancies, will
reach the conclusion that he must have an artificial face of some kind fitted on at the place
of contact with the ball. Or such an artificial face may become necessary by reason of the
wear and tear on the face of the driver. Why forsake the old leather face? There is an idea
abroad in these days that it is too soft and dead for the purposes of the new rubber-cored
ball; and the impression that the latter likes the very hardest surface it is possible to apply
to it has resulted in horn, vulcanite, and even steel faces being fitted to drivers and brassies.
I do not think that in actual practice they are any better than leather, though some golfers
may persuade themselves that they are. If a man, who is a good and steady driver, makes several
drives from the tee with a club which has a leather face, and several more with another possessing
a steel or vulcanite face, I am confident that he will on the average get at least as far with
the leather as with the other, and I shall be surprised, if the test is fair and reliable,
if he does not get further. I have leather faces on my drivers, and I think that latterly I
have been driving further than I ever did. A point of objection to the harder surfaces, which
at times is very serious, is that the ball is very much more liable to skid off them than off
others, and thus the golfer may often blame himself for shots that look like a mixture of foozle
and slice when the fault is not his at all, but that of the peculiarity of the club with which
he is so much in love. On the other hand, it must be admitted that he scores over his opponent
with the leather-faced club when the weather is wet, for the leather is then liable to soften
and becomes very dead.

Never select a club because it has a long head, but let your preference be in favour of the
shorter heads. The beginner, or the player of only moderate experience, puts it to himself
that it is a very difficult thing always to strike the ball fairly on the face of the club,
and that the longer the face is the more room he has for inaccuracy of his stroke. But he is
wrong. Whatever the length of the face, unless the ball is hit fairly and squarely in the centre,
it will not travel properly, and the effect is really worse when the point of contact is a
little off the centre in a long-faced club than when it is the same distance removed from the
centre of a short face. Moreover, despite this fact, which will soon become apparent to the
golfer, the knowledge that he has a long-faced driver may very easily get him into a loose
way of playing his tee shots. He may cease to regard exactness as indispensable, as it always
is. The tendency of late years has been to make the heads of wooden clubs shorter and still
shorter, and this tendency is well justified.

The question of the whip or suppleness of the shaft must generally be decided by individual
style and preference; but I advise the beginner against purchasing a whippy driver to start
with, whatever he may do later on. He should rather err on the side of stiffness. When a man
is well on his drive, has a good style, and is getting a long ball from the tee every time,
it is doubtless true that he obtains better results from a shaft with a little life in it than
from a stiff one. But the advantage is not by any means so great as might be imagined, and
many fine players drive their best balls with stiff clubs. It must always be remembered that
when the stroke is not made perfectly there is a much greater tendency to slice with a supple
shaft than with a stiff one, and the disadvantages of the former are especially pronounced
on a windy day. It is all a matter of preference and predilection, and when these are absent
the best thing to do is to strike the happy medium and select a shaft that is fairly supple
but which still leaves you in the most perfect command of the head of the club, and not as
if the latter were connected with your hands by nothing more than a slender rush.

Weight again is largely a matter of fancy, and there is no rule to the effect that a slender
player should use a light club and one of powerful build a heavy one; indeed, one constantly
finds the slim men employing the most ponderous drivers, as if, as it were, to make up for
their own lightness, while heavy men will often prefer clubs that are like pen-holders to them.
Once more I suggest the adoption of the medium as being generally the most satisfactory. I
have a strong dislike to drivers that are unusually light, and I do not think that anyone can
consistently get the best results from them. They entail too much swinging, and it is much
harder to guide the club properly when the weight of the head cannot be felt. Of course a club
that is strongly favoured by a golfer and suits him excellently in all respects save that it
errs on the side of lightness, can easily be put right by the insertion of a little lead in
the sole.

Little need be said in this place about the selection of the brassy. Whatever may be the amount
of whip in the shaft of the driver, the brassy should not possess any undue suppleness, for
it has heavier and rougher work to do than the club which is used for the tee shots, and there
must be very little give in the stick if satisfactory results are to be obtained when the ball
is lying at all heavily. The head and the face should be small; but in other respects the pattern
of the driver should be closely adhered to, for it is one of the principles of my tuition that
when the golfer takes his brassy in his hand to play his second shot, he should be brought
to feel as nearly as possible that he is merely doing the drive over again. Many authorities
recommend that the shaft of the brassy shall be an inch or so shorter than that of the driver;
but I can see no necessity for its being shorter; and, on the other hand, for the reason I
have just stated, I think it is eminently desirable that it should be exactly the same length.
On this point I shall have more to say in another chapter. Care should be taken that both the
brassy and the driver have exactly the same lie, that is to say, that when the soles of both
clubs are laid quite flat upon the ground the shafts shall be projecting towards the golfer
at precisely the same angle. If they have not the same lie, then, if the player takes up the
same stance at the same distance from the ball when making a brassy shot as when he struck
the ball from the tee with his driver, the sole of the club will not sweep evenly along the
turf as it comes on to the ball, and the odds will be against a good shot being made.

I am a strong believer in having reserve drivers and brassies, even if one is only a very moderate
golfer. Everybody knows what it is to suffer torture during the period when one is said to
be "off his drive," and I think there is no remedy for this disease like a change of clubs.
There may be nothing whatever the matter with the club you have been playing with, and which
at one time gave you so much delight, but which now seems so utterly incapable of despatching
a single good ball despite all the drastic alterations which you make in your methods. Of course
it is not at all the fault of the club, but I think that nearly everybody gets more or less
tired of playing with the same implement, and at length looks upon it with familiar contempt.
The best thing to do in such circumstances is to give it a rest, and it will soon be discovered
that absence makes the heart grow fonder in this matter as in so many others. But the reserve
clubs which are taken out while the first string are resting should be in themselves good and
almost as exactly suitable to the player's style as the others. It is a mistake to take up
a club which has been regarded as a failure, and in which one has no confidence. Therefore,
I suggest that so soon as the golfer has really found his style and is tolerably certain about
it, and the exact kind of club that he likes best, he should fit himself up with both a spare
driver and a spare brassy, and give them each a turn as occasion demands. It is hardly necessary
to add that whenever an important game is being played, considerable wisdom will be exercised
if the reserves are taken out in the bag along with the clubs with which it is intended to
play, for though breakages are not matters of everyday occurrence, they do happen sometimes,
and nothing would be more exasperating in such a contingency than the knowledge that for the
rest of the game you would be obliged to play your tee shots with your brassy or your brassy
shots with your cleek.

The driving cleek, for long shots, should have a fairly straight face with very little loft
upon it. It should have a thick blade, should be fairly heavy, and its shaft should be stout
and stiff. This makes a powerful club, with which some fine long work can be accomplished.
I am inclined to think that one reason why so many players find it extremely difficult to get
good work out of their cleeks, is that they use them with heads too thin and light. A large
proportion of the cleeks one sees about are too delicate and ladylike. It is sometimes expected
of a cleek that it will despatch a ball for, say, a hundred and sixty yards, and no club will
do that, no matter how skilful the golfer who wields it may be, unless there is sufficient
weight in it. A second cleek, which will be found in the bag of the experienced golfer, will
have a thinner blade and much more loft upon it, but in other respects will be very much like
the other one, though not nearly so heavy. This instrument is for the shorter cleek-shot distances,
which are just so long that an iron cannot reach them.

There is great diversity in irons, and the player may be left in the first place in the hands
of his professional adviser, and afterwards to his own taste, with the single hint from me
that undue lightness should at all times be avoided. Of the two mashies which the complete
golfer will carry out with him on to the links, one, for pitching the ball well up with very
little run to follow, will have a deep face, will be of medium weight, and be very stiff in
the shaft. I emphasise the deep face and the rigidity of the shaft. This mashie will also have
plenty of loft upon it. The other one, for use chiefly in running up to the hole, will have
a straighter face, but will otherwise be much the same. However, not all golfers consider two
mashies to be necessary, and I myself depend chiefly upon one. Of the niblick it need only
be said that it must be strong, heavy, and well lofted.

I have stated that the golfer may carry two putters in his bag; but I mean that he should do
so only when he has a definite and distinct purpose for each of them, and I certainly do not
advise his going from one kind to the other for the same sort of putt. There is great danger
in such a practice. If he is doing very poor putting with one club, he will naturally fly for
help to the other one, and the probability is that he will do just as badly with that. Then
he returns to the first one, and again finds that his putts do not come off, and by this time
he is in a hopeless quandary. If he has only one putter he will generally make some sort of
a success of it if he can putt at all, and my private belief is that the putter itself has
very little to do with the way in which a golfer putts. It is the man that counts and not the
tool. I have tried all kinds of putters in my time, and have generally gone back to the plainest
and simplest of all. I have occasionally used the aluminium putter. It has much to recommend
it to those who like this style of implement, and Braid always does very well with it. The
Travis or Schenectady putter, which was so popular for a short time after the Amateur Championship
last year, owing to the American player having done such wonderful things with it, I do not
succeed with. When I try to putt with it I cannot keep my eye away from its heel. But the fact
is, as I have already indicated, that you can putt with anything if you hit the ball properly.
Everything depends on that--hitting the ball properly--and no putter that was ever made will
help you to hole out if you do not strike the ball exactly as it ought to be struck, while
if you do so strike it, any putter will hole out for you. The philosophy of putting is simple,
but is rarely appreciated. The search for the magic putter that will always pop the ball into
the hole and leave the player nothing to do will go on for ever.

One other observation that I have to make on clubs in general is, that I think it is a mistake
to have the shafts any longer than is absolutely necessary. Some golfers think that an iron
or a cleek is just the right length for them when there are still a few inches of stick projecting
inwards, towards their bodies, when they have made their grip. Why that spare stick? It cannot
possibly be of any use, and may conceivably be harmful. It is surely better to have it cut
off and then to grip the club at the end of the handle. A larger sense of power and control
is obtained in this manner. My own clubs seem to most golfers who examine them to be on the
short side, and this is a convenient opportunity for giving a few details concerning my favourites,
which may prove of interest to the readers of these notes. I should prefix the statement with
the observation that I am 5 feet 9-1/4 inches in height, and that normally I weigh 11-1/2 stones.
Young players who might be inclined to adapt their clubs to my measurements should bear these
factors in mind, though I seem to be of something like average height and build. Here, then,
are the statistics of my bag:--

 Club.                 Length.           Weight.
 Driver                  42    inches    12-3/4 oz.
 Brassy                  42      "       12-1/2  "
 Driving mashie          38      "       14-1/2  "
 Driving cleek           37      "       13-1/2  "
 Light cleek             37      "       13-1/2  "
 Iron                    35-1/2  "       15-1/4  "
 Mashie                  36-1/2  "       15-1/4  "
 Niblick                 37      "       19      "
 Putter (putting cleek)  33-1/2  "       15      "

Each measurement was made from the heel to the end of the shaft.

I have two explanations to make concerning this list of dimensions. I have included the driving
mashie, of which I have said nothing in this chapter. It is an alternative club, and it is
better that it should be discussed exclusively in its proper place, which is when cleek shots
are being considered. Again, on making a critical examination of these measurements, the golfer
of a little experience will promptly ask why my mashie is an inch and a quarter longer than
my iron. It is longer because one has sometimes to play high lofting shots over trees and the
like, and in such cases the loft of the mashie is necessary and a considerable amount of power
as well--hence the extra stick.

As I have said, the collection of a set of clubs that conform in essentials to their owner's
ideal is a very slow and often an expensive process. A club that was bought in the shop for
six shillings might have cost its owner six sovereigns when the many unsatisfactory and discarded
articles that were bought while this one perfect gem was being searched for are taken into
account. Therefore it behoves the man who is to any extent satisfied with his clubs to take
a proper pride in them and look well after them. I like to see a golfer play with bright irons,
and shafts that give evidence of tender and affectionate care. It jars upon one's nerves to
see rusty irons and mashies which have evidently not been cleaned for months, and which are
now past hope. Such a man does not deserve to have good clubs, nor to play good strokes with
them. But many golfers, even when they have a tender and careful regard for the excellent merits
of their favourites, seem to imagine that the beginning and end of their duty towards them
is to keep their irons bright and free from the slightest semblance of rust. More often than
not the shaft is never given a thought, and yet a perfect shaft that just suits the man who
has to play with it is one of the rarest and most difficult things to discover. It would be
difficult to replace it, and to keep it in its best condition it needs constant care and attention.
An unreasoning golfer may play with his clubs on wet days, see that the irons are brightened
afterwards, and store his collection in his locker without another thought concerning them.
And then some time later when he is out on the links snap goes one of his shafts, and "Confound
that rotten wood!" he exclaims. But it is not a case of rotten wood at all. When shafts are
constantly allowed to get wet and are afterwards merely wiped with a rag and given no further
attention, all the life dries out of the wood, and they are sure to break sooner or later.
It should be your invariable practice, when you have been out on a wet day, first to see that
your shafts are well dried and then to give them a thoroughly good oiling with linseed oil,
applied with a rag kept specially for the purpose. This will keep them in excellent condition.
The tops of the club heads may be oiled in the same way; but extreme care should be taken that
not a drop of oil is allowed to touch the face of the wooden clubs. It would tend to open the
grain, and then, when next you played in the wet, the damp would get inside the wood and cause
it gradually to rot. I counsel all golfers when playing in wet weather to have covers or hoods
attached to their bags, so that the heads of their instruments may always be kept in shelter.
This will do much for their preservation, and at the same time add materially to the satisfaction
of the player, for he can never feel that he has the means to do himself justice on the tee
when the head of his driver is in a half soaked state. No player, whatever his abilities as
a golfer, should refrain from exercising this precautionary measure because he has seen only
the very best players doing so, and because he fancies it may be regarded by his friends as
affectation. The fact that it is chiefly the best players who do these things only indicates
that they know better than others what is due to their clubs and how to look after them. There
is no affectation in copying their methods in this respect.

It has been said that the amateur golfers of Great Britain are in these days suffering from
a "debauchery of long driving." The general sense of Mr. Travis's remark is excellent, meaning
that there is a tendency to regard a very long drive as almost everything in the playing of
a hole, and to be utterly careless of straightness and the short game so long as the ball has
been hit from the tee to the full extent of the golfer's power. A long drive is not by any
means everything, and the young golfer should resist any inclination to strive for the 250-yard
ball to the detriment or even the total neglect of other equally important, though perhaps
less showy, considerations in the playing of a hole. But having said so much, and conveyed
the solemn warning that is necessary, I am obliged to admit that the long driver has very full
justification for himself, and that the wisely regulated ambition of the young player to be
one is both natural and laudable. The long drive, as I say, is not everything; but to play
well it is as necessary to make a good drive as to hole a short putt, or nearly so, and from
the golfer who does not drive well a most marvellous excellence is required in the short game
if he is to hold his own in good company, or ever be anything more than a long-handicap man.
The good drive is the foundation of a good game, and just as one and one make two, so it follows
that the man who drives the longer ball has the rest of the game made easier and more certain
for him. This apart, there is no stroke in golf that gives the same amount of pleasure as does
the perfect driving of the ball from the tee, none that makes the heart feel lighter, and none
that seems to bring the glow of delight into the watching eye as this one does. The man who
has never stood upon the tee with a sturdy rival near him and driven a perfect ball, the hands
having followed well through and finished nicely up against the head, while the little white
speck in the distance, after skimming the earth for a time, now rises and soars upwards, clearing
all obstacles, and seeming to revel in its freedom and speed until at last it dips gracefully
back to earth again--I say that the man who has not done this thing has missed one of the joys
of life. I have heard the completest sportsmen say that there are very few things in the entire
world of sport that can be compared with it, and none that is superior.

So now let us get on to our drive.

In the first place, the driver must be selected, and the hints I have already given upon the
choice of clubs will serve tolerably well in this respect. Let it only be said again that the
golfer should do his utmost to avoid extremes in length or shortness. One hears of the virtues
of fishing-rod drivers, and the next day that certain great players display a tendency to shorten
their clubs. There is nothing like the happy medium, which has proved its capability of getting
the longest balls. The length of the club must, of course, vary according to the height of
the player, for what would be a short driver for a six-foot man would almost be a fishing-rod
to the diminutive person who stands but five feet high. Let the weight be medium also; but
for reasons already stated do not let it err on the side of lightness. The shaft of the club
should be of moderate suppleness. As I have said, if it is too whippy it may be hard to control,
but if it is too stiff it leaves too much hard work to be done by the muscles of the golfer.
Practising what I preach, my own drivers are carefully selected for this delicate medium of
suppleness of shaft, and when a stick is found that is exactly perfect it is well worth great
care for ever. Also I reiterate that the head of the club should not be too large; driving
is not thereby made any easier, and carelessness is encouraged. The face should not be quite
vertical: if it were, only the top edge and not the full face would be seen when the stance
had been taken and the club head was resting upon the tee in its proper place. There must be
just so much loft that the face can be seen when the golfer is ready and in position for the
swing. But avoid having too much loft filed on the club as a fancied remedy for driving too
low and getting into all the bunkers. You do not fail to get the ball up because there is not
sufficient loft on the club, but because you are doing something wrong which can easily be
remedied; while, on the other hand, be very careful of the fact that, as you add loft to the
face of the driver so at the same time you are cutting off distance and losing both power and
the delightful sense of it. When the weather is wet, it is a good plan to chalk the face of
the club, as this counteracts the tendency of the ball to skid from it.

Tee the ball low, rejecting the very prevalent but erroneous idea that you are more certain
of getting it away cleanly and well when it is poised high off the ground. The stroke that
sweeps the ball well away from the low tee is the most natural and perfect, and it follows
that the ball, properly driven from this low tee, is the best of all. Moreover, one is not
so liable to get too much underneath the ball and make a feeble shot into the sky, which is
one of the most exasperating forms of ineffectual effort in the whole range of golf. Another
convincing argument in favour of the low tee is that it preserves a greater measure of similarity
between the first shot and the second, helping to make the latter, with the brassy, almost
a repetition of the first, and therefore simple and comparatively easy. If you make a high
tee, when you come to play your second stroke with your brassy, you will be inclined to find
fault with even the most perfect brassy lies--when the ball is so well held up by the blades
of grass that the best possible shot with this far-sending club should be the result. If you
are favoured with an ordinary brassy lie, you imagine the ball to be in a hole, exclaim that
you are badly cupped, and call out vexatiously for an iron. This is the regular result of playing
from a high tee, whereas, when the low one is systematically adopted, the difference between
the play with the driver and with the brassy from a good lie is inconsiderable, the brassy
is used more frequently, and the results are regularly better. As I have already suggested,
one of the principles of my long game is to make the play with the brassy as nearly similar
to that with the driver as possible, and a low tee is the first step in that direction.

There are wide variations in the stances adopted by different players, and extremes of one
sort or another are usually the result of bad habits contracted in the early stages of initiation
into the mysteries of the game. Sometimes the ball is seen opposite the toe of the left foot;
at others it is far away to the right. Either of these players may get long balls constantly,
but it is in spite of the stance and not because of it, for they are contending against a handicap
all the time, and have unconsciously to introduce other mannerisms into their play to counteract
the evil which a bad stance inevitably brings about. It is certain that if they had driven
in the easier way from their youth upwards, they would in their golfing prime have been getting
longer balls than those with which they are after all apparently satisfied. But I have already
admitted generally, and here again admit in a specific instance, the dissatisfaction, and even
danger, that is likely to accrue from an attempt to uproot a system of play which has been
established in an individual for many years. One can only insist upon the necessity of starting
well, and plead earnestly to any readers who may not yet be far advanced in their experience
of the game, to see that their play is based on wise and sure foundations. There is nothing
of my own discovery or invention in my stance for the drive. It is simply that which is theoretically
and scientifically correct, being calculated, that is, to afford the greatest freedom of movement
to the arms, legs, and body in the swinging of the club, so that the strength may be exerted
to the fullest advantage at the right moment and continued in its effect upon the ball for
the longest possible period.

First, then, as to distance from the ball. The player should stand so far away from it that
when he is in position and the club face is resting against the teed ball, just as when ready
to strike it, the end of the shaft shall reach exactly up to his left knee when the latter
is ever so slightly bent. In this position he should be able, when he has properly gripped
the club, to reach the ball comfortably and without any stretching, the arms indeed being not
quite straight out but having a slight bend at the elbows, so that when the club is waggled
in the preliminary address to the ball, plenty of play can be felt in them. I must now invite
the player who is following me in these remarks to give his attention simultaneously to the
photograph of myself, as I have taken my stance upon the tee for an ordinary drive (Plate VI.),
with the object of getting the longest ball possible under conditions in all respects normal;
and to the small diagram in the corner of the picture giving all the measurements necessary
to a complete understanding of the position. I may point out again that my height is 5 feet
9-1/4 inches, and that the length of my driver from the heel to the end of the shaft is 42
inches. My stature being medium, the majority of players who desire to follow my suggestions
will be able to do so without any altering of the measurements given in these diagrams; and,
indeed, until any variation in height one way or the other becomes considerable, there is no
necessity to vary them. Remember that in this and all subsequent illustrations the line marked
A points to the direction in which it is desired that the ball should travel, and that the
B line over which the player stands is at right angles to it. Those who wish at this moment
to examine the stance in the most practical manner, and to compare it with that which they
have been in the habit of playing from, need hardly be informed that at the corners of nearly
every carpet there are rectangular lines either in the pattern or made by borders, which may
be taken to represent those in the diagram, and a penny placed at the junction will stand for
the ball. It will be observed that, for the most lucid and complete exposition of the stances,
in this and all subsequent cases, the diagrams have been turned about, so that here the player
has, as it were, his back to the reader, while in the photographs he is, of course, facing
him. But the stances are identical. The diagrams have been drawn to scale.

It will be noticed, in the first place, that I have my toes turned well outwards. The pivoting
which is necessary, and which will be described in due course, is done naturally and without
any effort when the toes are pointed in this manner. While it is a mistake to place the feet
too near each other, there is a common tendency to place them too far apart. When this is done,
ease and perfection of the swing are destroyed and power is wasted, whilst the whole movement
is devoid of grace. It will be seen that my left foot is a little, but not much, in advance
of the ball. My heel, indeed, is almost level with it, being but an inch from the B line at
the end of which the ball is teed. The toe, however, is 9-1/2 inches away from it, all measurements
in this case and others being taken from the exact centre of the point of the toe. The point
of the right toe is 19 inches distant from the B line, and while this toe is 27-1/2 inches
from the A line the other is 34 inches from it, so that the right foot is 6-1/2 inches in advance
of the left. After giving these measurements, there is really little more to explain about
the stance, particularly as I shall show shortly how variations from it almost certainly bring
about imperfect drives. Theoretically, the reason for the position is, I think, fairly obvious.
The right foot is in advance of the left, so that at the most critical period of the stroke
there shall be nothing to impede the follow-through, but everything to encourage it, and so
that at the finish the body itself can be thrown forward in the last effort to continue the
application of power. It would not be in a position to do so if the left foot were in front
to bar the way. The position of the ball as between the right foot and the left is such that
the club will strike it just at the time when it is capable of doing so to the utmost advantage,
being then, and for the very minute portion of a second during which ball and club may be supposed
to remain in contact, moving in as nearly as possible a straight line and at its maximum speed.

[Illus ration: PLATE V. THE OVERLAPPING GRIP]

Now comes the all-important consideration of the grip. This is another matter in which the
practice of golfers differs greatly, and upon which there has been much controversy. My grip
is one of my own invention. It differs materially from most others, and if I am asked to offer
any excuse for it, I shall say that I adopted it only after a careful trial of all the other
grips of which I had ever heard, that in theory and practice I find it admirable--more so than
any other--and that in my opinion it has contributed materially to the attainment of such skill
as I possess. The favour which I accord to my method might be viewed with suspicion if it had
been my natural or original grip, which came naturally or accidentally to me when I first began
to play as a boy, so many habits that are bad being contracted at this stage and clinging to
the player for the rest of his life. But this was not the case, for when I first began to play
golf I grasped my club in what is generally regarded as the orthodox manner, that is to say,
across the palms of both hands separately, with both thumbs right round the shaft (on the left
one, at all events), and with the joins between the thumbs and first fingers showing like two
V's over the top of the shaft. This is usually described as the two-V grip, and it is the one
which is taught by the majority of professionals to whom the beginner appeals for first instruction
in the game. Of course it is beyond question that some players achieve very fine results with
this grip, but I abandoned it many years ago in favour of one that I consider to be better.
My contention is that this grip of mine is sounder in theory and easier in practice, tends
to make a better stroke and to secure a straighter ball, and that players who adopt it from
the beginning will stand a much better chance of driving well at an early stage than if they
went in for the old-fashioned two-V. My grip is an overlapping, but not an interlocking one.
Modifications of it are used by many fine players, and it is coming into more general practice
as its merits are understood and appreciated. I use it for all my strokes, and it is only when
putting that I vary it in the least, and then the change is so slight as to be scarcely noticeable.
The photographs (Plates II., III., IV., and V.) illustrating the grip of the left hand singly,
and of the two together from different points of view, should now be closely examined.

It will be seen at once that I do not grasp the club across the palm of either hand. The club
being taken in the left hand first, the shaft passes from the knuckle joint of the first finger
across the ball of the second. The left thumb lies straight down the shaft--that is to say,
it is just to the left of the centre of the shaft. But the following are the significant features
of the grip. The right hand is brought up so high that the palm of it covers over the left
thumb, leaving very little of the latter to be seen. The first and second fingers of the right
hand just reach round to the thumb of the left, and the third finger completes the overlapping
process, so that the club is held in the grip as if it were in a vice. The little finger of
the right hand rides on the first finger of the left. The great advantage of this grip is that
both hands feel and act like one, and if, even while sitting in his chair, a player who has
never tried it before will take a stick in his hands in the manner I have described, he must
at once be convinced that there is a great deal in what I say for it, although, of course,
if he has been accustomed to the two V's, the success of my grip cannot be guaranteed at the
first trial. It needs some time to become thoroughly happy with it.

We must now consider the degree of tightness of the grip by either hand, for this is an important
matter. Some teachers of golf and various books of instruction inform us that we should grasp
the club firmly with the left hand and only lightly with the right, leaving the former to do
the bulk of the work and the other merely to guide the operations. It is astonishing with what
persistency this error has been repeated, for error I truly believe it is. Ask any really first-class
player with what comparative tightness he holds the club in his right and left hands, and I
am confident that in nearly every case he will declare that he holds it nearly if not quite
as tightly with the right hand as with the left. Personally I grip quite as firmly with the
right hand as with the other one. When the other way is adopted, the left hand being tight
and the right hand simply watching it, as it were, there is an irresistible tendency for the
latter to tighten up suddenly at some part of the upward or downward swing, and, as surely
as there is a ball on the tee, when it does so there will be mischief. Depend upon it the instinct
of activity will prevent the right hand from going through with the swing in that indefinite
state of looseness. Perhaps a yard from the ball in the upward swing, or a yard from it when
coming down, there will be a convulsive grip of the right hand which, with an immediate acknowledgment
of guilt, will relax again. Such a happening is usually fatal; it certainly deserves to be.
Slicing, pulling, sclaffing, and the foundering of the innocent globe--all these tragedies
may at times be traced to this determination of the right hand not to be ignored but to have
its part to play in the making of the drive. Therefore in all respects my right hand is a joint
partner with the left.

The grip with the first finger and thumb of my right hand is exceedingly firm, and the pressure
of the little finger on the knuckle of the left hand is very decided. In the same way it is
the thumb and first finger of the left hand that have most of the gripping work to do. Again,
the palm of the right hand presses hard against the thumb of the left. In the upward swing
this pressure is gradually decreased, until when the club reaches the turning-point there is
no longer any such pressure; indeed, at this point the palm and the thumb are barely in contact.
This release is a natural one, and will or should come naturally to the player for the purpose
of allowing the head of the club to swing well and freely back. But the grip of the thumb and
first finger of the right hand, as well as that of the little finger upon the knuckle of the
first finger of the left hand, is still as firm as at the beginning. As the club head is swung
back again towards the ball, the palm of the right hand and the thumb of the left gradually
come together again. Both the relaxing and the re-tightening are done with the most perfect
graduation, so that there shall be no jerk to take the club off the straight line. The easing
begins when the hands are about shoulder high and the club shaft is perpendicular, because
it is at this time that the club begins to pull, and if it were not let out in the manner explained,
the result would certainly be a half shot or very little more than that, for a full and perfect
swing would be an impossibility. This relaxation of the palm also serves to give more freedom
to the wrist at the top of the swing just when that freedom is desirable.

I have the strongest belief in the soundness of the grip that I have thus explained, for when
it is employed both hands are acting in unison and to the utmost advantage, whereas it often
happens in the two-V grip, even when practised by the most skilful players, that in the downward
swing there is a sense of the left hand doing its utmost to get through and of the right hand
holding it back.

There is only one other small matter to mention in connection with the question of grip. Some
golfers imagine that if they rest the left thumb down the shaft and let the right hand press
upon it there will be a considerable danger of breaking the thumb, so severe is the pressure
when the stroke is being made. As a matter of fact, I have quite satisfied myself that if the
thumb is kept in the same place there is not the slightest risk of anything of the kind. Also
if the thumb remains immovable, as it should, there is no possibility of the club turning in
the hands as so often happens in the case of the two-V grip when the ground is hit rather hard,
a pull or a slice being the usual consequence. I must be excused for treating upon these matters
at such length. They are often neglected, but they are of extreme importance in laying the
foundations of a good game of golf.

In addressing the ball, take care to do so with the centre of the face of the club, that is,
at the desired point of contact. Some awkward eccentricities may frequently be observed on
the tee. A player may be seen addressing his ball from the toe of the driver, and I have even
noticed the address being made with the head of the club quite inside the ball, while in other
cases it is the heel of the club which is applied to the object to be struck. The worthy golfers
who are responsible for these freaks of style no doubt imagine that they are doing a wise and
proper thing, and in the most effectual manner counteracting some other irregularity of their
method of play which may not be discoverable, and which is in any case incurable. Yet nothing
is more certain than that another irregularity must be introduced into the drive in order to
correct the one made in the address. To the point at which the club is addressed it will naturally
return in the course of the swing, and if it is to be guided to any other than the original
place, there must be a constant effort all through the swing to effect this change in direction,
and most likely somewhere or other there will be sufficient jerk to spoil the drive. In the
case where the ball is addressed with the toe of the club, the player must find it necessary
almost to fall on the ball in coming down, and it is quite impossible for him to get his full
distance in such circumstances.

A waggle of the head of the club as a preliminary before commencing the swing is sometimes
necessary after the stance and grip have been taken, but every young golfer should be warned
against excess in this habit. With the stance and grip arranged, the line of the shot in view,
and a full knowledge of what is required from the stroke, there is really very little more
that needs thinking about before the swing is taken. One short preliminary waggle will tend
to make the player feel comfortable and confident, but some golfers may be observed trying
the patience of all about them by an interminable process of waggling, the most likely result
of which is a duffed shot, since, when at last the stroke is made, the player is in a state
of semi-catalepsy, and has no clear idea of what he is going to do or how he is going to do it.

In addressing the ball, and during the upward and downward swings until it has been safely
despatched, the sight should be kept riveted, not on the top of the ball, as is customary,
but upon the ground immediately to the right of it (see diagram on p. 170). To the point where
the gaze is fixed the head of the club will automatically be guided. That is why you are told
to keep your eye on the ball. But you do not want to hit the top of the ball. So look to the
side, where you do want to hit it.

Now let us consider the upward and downward swings of the club, and the movements of the arms,
legs, feet, and body in relation to them. As a first injunction, it may be stated that the
club should be drawn back rather more slowly than you intend to bring it down again. "Slow
back" is a golfing maxim that is both old and wise. The club should begin to gain speed when
the upward swing is about half made, and the increase should be gradual until the top is reached,
but it should never be so fast that control of the club is to any extent lost at the turning-point.
The head of the club should be taken back fairly straight from the ball--along the A line--for
the first six inches, and after that any tendency to sweep it round sharply to the back should
be avoided. Keep it very close to the straight line until it is half-way up. The old St. Andrews
style of driving largely consisted in this sudden sweep round, but the modern method appears
to be easier and productive of better results. So this carrying of the head of the club upwards
and backwards seems to be a very simple matter, capable of explanation in a very few words;
but, as every golfer of a month's experience knows, there is a long list of details to be attended
to, which I have not yet named, each of which seems to vie with the others in its attempt to
destroy the effectiveness of the drive. Let us begin at the top, as it were, and work downwards,
and first of all there is the head of the golfer to consider.

The head should be kept perfectly motionless from the time of the address until the ball has
been sent away and is well on its flight. The least deviation from this rule means a proportionate
danger of disaster. When a drive has been badly foozled, the readiest and most usual explanation
is that the eye has been taken off the ball, and the wise old men who have been watching shake
their heads solemnly, and utter that parrot-cry of the links, "Keep your eye on the ball."
Certainly this is a good and necessary rule so far as it goes; but I do not believe that one
drive in a hundred is missed because the eye has not been kept on the ball. On the other hand,
I believe that one of the most fruitful causes of failure with the tee shot is the moving of
the head. Until the ball has gone, it should, as I say, be as nearly perfectly still as possible,
and I would have written that it should not be moved to the extent of a sixteenth of an inch,
but for the fact that it is not human to be so still, and golf is always inclined to the human
side. When the head has been kept quite still and the club has reached the top of the upward
swing, the eyes should be looking over the middle of the left shoulder, the left one being
dead over the centre of that shoulder. Most players at one time or another, and the best of
them when they are a little off their game, fall into every trap that the evil spirits of golf
lay for them, and unconsciously experience a tendency to lift the head for five or six inches
away from the ball while the upward swing is being taken. This is often what is imagined to
be taking the eye off the ball, particularly as, when it is carried to excess, the eye, struggling
gallantly to do its duty, finds considerable difficulty in getting a sight of the ball over
the left shoulder, and sometimes loses it altogether for an instant. An examination of the
photograph showing the top of the swing (Plate VII.) will make it clear that there is very
little margin for the moving of the head if the ball is to be kept in full view for the whole
of the time.

In the upward swing the right shoulder should be raised gradually. It is unnecessary for me
to submit any instruction on this point, since the movement is natural and inevitable, and
there is no tendency towards excess; but the arms and wrists need attention. From the moment
when the club is first taken back the left wrist should begin to turn inwards (that is to say,
the movement is in the same direction as that taken by the hands of a clock), and so turn away
the face of the club from the ball. When this is properly done, the toe of the club will point
to the sky when it is level with the shoulder and will be dead over the middle of the shaft.
This turning or twisting process continues all the way until at the top of the swing the toe
of the club is pointing straight downwards to the ground. A reference to Plate VII. will show
that this has been done, and that as the result the left wrist finishes the upward swing underneath
the shaft, which is just where it ought to be. When the wrist has not been at work in the manner
indicated, the toe of the club at the top of the drive will be pointing upwards. In order to
satisfy himself properly about the state of affairs thus far in the making of the drive, the
golfer should test himself at the top of the swing by holding the club firmly in the position
which it has reached, and then dropping the right hand from the grip. He will thus be enabled
to look right round, and if he then finds that the maker's name on the head of the club is
horizontal, he will know that he has been doing the right thing with his wrists, while if it
is vertical the wrist action has been altogether wrong.

During the upward swing the arms should be gradually let out in the enjoyment of perfect ease
and freedom (without being spread-eagled away from the body) until at the top of the swing
the left arm, from the shoulder to the elbow, is gently touching the body and hanging well
down, while the right arm is up above it and almost level with the club. The picture indicates
exactly what I mean, and a reference to the illustration showing what ought not to be the state
of affairs generally when the top of the swing is reached (Plate XI.), should convince even
the veriest beginner how much less comfortable is the position of the arms in this instance
than when the right thing has been done, and how laden with promise is the general attitude
of the player in the latter position as compared with his cramped state in the former. I think
I ought to state, partly in justice to myself, and partly to persuade my readers that the best
way in this case, as in all others, is the most natural, that I found it most inconvenient
and difficult to make such extremely inaccurate swings as those depicted in this and other
photographs of the "How not to do it" series, although they are by no means exaggerations of
what are seen on the links every day, even players of several years' experience being constantly
responsible for them.

In the upward movement of the club the body must pivot from the waist alone, and there must
be no swaying, not even to the extent of an inch. When the player sways in his drive the stroke
he makes is a body stroke pure and simple. The body is trying to do the work the arms should
do, and in these circumstances it is impossible to get so much power into the stroke as if
it were properly made, while once more the old enemies, the slice and the pull, will come out
from their hiding-places with their mocking grin at the unhappy golfer.

The movements of the feet and legs are important. In addressing the ball you stand with both
feet flat and securely placed on the ground, the weight equally divided between them, and the
legs so slightly bent at the knee joints as to make the bending scarcely noticeable. This position
is maintained during the upward movement of the club until the arms begin to pull at the body.
The easiest and most natural thing to do then, and the one which suggests itself, is to raise
the heel of the left foot and begin to pivot on the left toe, which allows the arms to proceed
with their uplifting process without let or hindrance. Do not begin to pivot on this left toe
ostentatiously, or because you feel you ought to do so, but only when you know the time has
come and you want to, and do it only to such an extent that the club can reach the full extent
of the swing without any difficulty. While this is happening it follows that the weight of
the body is being gradually thrown on to the right leg, which accordingly stiffens until at
the top of the swing it is quite rigid, the left leg being at the same time in a state of comparative
freedom, slightly bent in towards the right, with only just enough pressure on the toe to keep
it in position.

To the man who has never driven a good ball in his life this process must seem very tedious.
All these things to attend to, and something less than a second in which to attend to them!
It only indicates how much there is in this wonderful game--more by far than any of us suspect
or shall ever discover. But the time comes, and it should come speedily, when they are all
accomplished without any effort, and, indeed, to a great extent, unconsciously. The upward
swing is everything. If it is bad and faulty, the downward swing will be wrong and the ball
will not be properly driven. If it is perfect, there is a splendid prospect of a long and straight
drive, carrying any hazard that may lie before the tee. That is why so very much emphasis must
be laid on getting this upward swing perfect, and why comparatively little attention need be
paid to the downward swing, even though it is really the effective part of the stroke.

Be careful not to dwell at the turn of the swing. The club has been gaining in speed right
up to this point, and though I suppose that, theoretically, there is a pause at the turning-point,
lasting for an infinitesimal portion of a second, the golfer should scarcely be conscious of
it. He must be careful to avoid a sudden jerk, but if he dwells at the top of the stroke for
only a second, or half that short period of time, his upward swing in all its perfection will
have been completely wasted, and his stroke will be made under precisely the same circumstances
and with exactly the same disadvantages as if the club had been poised in this position at
the start, and there had been no attempt at swinging of any description. In such circumstances
a long ball is an impossibility, and a straight one a matter of exceeding doubt. The odds are
not very greatly in favour of the ball being rolled off the teeing ground. So don't dwell at
the turn; come back again with the club.

The club should gradually gain in speed from the moment of the turn until it is in contact
with the ball, so that at the moment of impact its head is travelling at its fastest pace.
After the impact, the club head should be allowed to follow the ball straight in the line of
the flag as far as the arms will let it go, and then, having done everything that is possible,
it swings itself out at the other side of the shoulders. The entire movement must be perfectly
smooth and rhythmical; in the downward swing, while the club is gaining speed, there must not
be the semblance of a jerk anywhere such as would cause a jump, or a double swing, or what
might be called a cricket stroke. That, in a few lines, is the whole story of the downward
swing; but it needs some little elaboration of detail. In the first place, avoid the tendency--which
is to some extent natural--to let the arms go out or away from the body as soon as the downward
movement begins. When they are permitted to do so the club head escapes from its proper line,
and a fault is committed which cannot be remedied before the ball is struck. Knowing by instinct
that you are outside the proper course, you make a great effort at correction, the face of
the club is drawn across the ball, and there is one more slice. The arms should be kept fairly
well in during the latter half of the downward swing, both elbows almost grazing the body.
If they are properly attended to when the club is going up, there is much more likelihood of
their coming down all right.

The head is still kept motionless and the body pivots easily at the waist; but when the club
is half-way down, the left hip is allowed to go forward a little--a preliminary to and preparation
for the forward movement of the body which is soon to begin. The weight is being gradually
moved back again from the right leg to the left. At the moment of impact both feet are equally
weighted and are flat on the ground, just as they were when the ball was being addressed; indeed,
the position of the body, legs, arms, head, and every other detail is, or ought to be, exactly
the same when the ball is being struck as they were when it was addressed, and for that reason
I refer my readers again to the photograph of the address (No. VI.) as the most correct position
of everything at the moment of striking. After the impact the weight is thrown on to the left
leg, which stiffens, while the right toe pivots and the knee bends just as its partner did
in the earlier stage of the stroke, but perhaps to a greater extent, since there is no longer
any need for restraint.

Now pay attention to the wrists. They should be held fairly tightly. If the club is held tightly
the wrists will be tight, and vice versâ. When the wrists are tight there is little play in
them, and more is demanded of the arms. I don't believe in the long ball coming from the wrists.
In defiance of principles which are accepted in many quarters, I will go so far as to say that,
except in putting, there is no pure wrist shot in golf. Some players attempt to play their
short approaches with their wrists as they have been told to do. These men are likely to remain
at long handicaps for a long time. Similarly there is a kind of superstition that the elect
among drivers get in some peculiar kind of "snap"--a momentary forward pushing movement--with
their wrists at the time of impact, and that it is this wrist work at the critical period which
gives the grand length to their drives, those extra twenty or thirty yards which make the stroke
look so splendid, so uncommon, and which make the next shot so much easier. Generally speaking,
the wrists when held firmly will take very good care of themselves; but there is a tendency,
particularly when the two-V grip is used, to allow the right hand to take charge of affairs
at the time the ball is struck, and the result is that the right wrist, as the swing is completed,
gradually gets on to the top of the shaft instead of remaining in its proper place. The consequence
is a pulled ball,--in fact, this is just the way in which I play for a pull. When the fault
is committed to a still greater extent, the head of the club is suddenly turned over, and then
the ball is foundered, as we say,--that is, it is struck downwards, and struggles, crippled
and done for, a few yards along the ground in front of the tee. I find that ladies are particularly
addicted to this very bad habit. Once again I have to say that if the club is taken up properly
there is the greater certainty of its coming down properly, and then if you keep both hands
evenly to their work there is a great probability of a good follow-through being properly effected.

When the ball has been struck, and the follow-through is being accomplished, there are two
rules, hitherto held sacred, which may at last be broken. With the direction and force of the
swing your chest is naturally turned round until it is facing the flag, and your body now abandons
all restraint, and to a certain extent throws itself, as it were, after the ball. There is
a great art in timing this body movement exactly. If it takes place the fiftieth part of a
second too soon the stroke will be entirely ruined; if it comes too late it will be quite ineffectual,
and will only result in making the golfer feel uneasy and as if something had gone wrong. When
made at the proper instant it adds a good piece of distance to the drive, and that instant,
as explained, is just when the club is following through. An examination of the photograph
indicating the finish of the swing (No. IX.) will show how my body has been thrown forward
until at this stage it is on the outward side of the B line, although it was slightly on the
other side when the ball was being addressed. Secondly, when the ball has gone, and the arms,
following it, begin to pull, the head, which has so far been held perfectly still, is lifted
up so as to give freedom to the swing, and incidentally it allows the eyes to follow the flight
of the ball.

I like to see the arms finish well up with the hands level with the head. This generally means
a properly hit ball and a good follow-through. At the finish of the stroke the right arm should
be above the left, the position being exactly the reverse of that in which the arms were situated
at the top of the swing, except that now the right arm is not quite so high as the left one
was at the earlier stage. The photograph (No. IX.) indicates that the right arm is some way
below the level of the shaft of the club, whereas it will be remembered that the left arm was
almost exactly on a level with it. Notice also the position of the wrists at the finish of
the stroke.

Having thus indicated at such great length the many points which go to the making of a good
drive, a long one and a straight one, yet abounding with ease and grace, allow me to show how
some of the commonest faults are caused by departures from the rules for driving. Take the
sliced ball, as being the trouble from which the player most frequently suffers, and which
upon occasion will exasperate him beyond measure. When a golfer is slicing badly almost every
time, it is frequently difficult for him to discover immediately the exact source of the trouble,
for there are two or three ways in which it comes about. The player may be standing too near
to the ball; he may be pulling in his arms too suddenly as he is swinging on to it, thus drawing
the club towards his left foot; or he may be falling on to the ball at the moment of impact.
When the stance is taken too near to the ball there is a great inducement to the arms to take
a course too far outwards (in the direction of the A line) in the upward swing. The position
is cramped, and the player does not seem able to get the club round at all comfortably. When
the club head is brought on to the ball after a swing of this kind, the face is drawn right
across it, and a slice is inevitable. In diagnosing the malady, in cases where the too close
stance is suspected, it is a good thing to apply the test of distance given at the beginning
of the previous chapter, and see whether, when the club head is resting in position against
the teed ball, the other end of the shaft just reaches to the left knee when it is in position,
and has only just so much bend in it as it has when the ball is being addressed. The second
method of committing the slicing sin is self-explanatory. As for the third, a player falls
on the ball, or sways over in the direction of the tee (very slightly, but it is the trifles
that matter most) when his weight has not been properly balanced to start with, and when in
the course of the swing it has been moved suddenly from one leg to the other instead of quite
gradually. But sometimes falling on the ball is caused purely and simply by swaying the body,
against which the player has already been warned. When the slicing is bad, the methods of the
golfer should be tested for each of these irregularities, and he should remember that an inch
difference in any position or movement as he stands upon the tee is a great distance, and that
two inches is a vast space, which the mind trained to calculate in small fractions can hardly
conceive.

Pulling is not such a common fault, although one which is sometimes very annoying. Generally
speaking, a pulled ball is a much better one than one which has been sliced, and there are
some young players who are rather inclined to purr with satisfaction when they have pulled,
for, though the ball is hopelessly off the line, they have committed an error which is commoner
with those whose hair has grown grey on the links than with the beginner whose handicap is
reckoned by eighteen or twenty strokes. But after all pulling is not an amusement, and even
when it is an accomplishment and not an accident, it should be most carefully regulated. It
is the right hand which is usually the offender in this case. The wrist is wrong at the moment
of impact, and generally at the finish of the stroke as well,--that is, it is on the top of
the club, indicating that the right hand has done most of the work. In a case of this sort
the top edge of the face of the club is usually overlapping the bottom edge, so that the face
is pointing slightly downwards at the moment of impact; and when this position is brought about
with extreme suddenness the ball is frequently foundered. If it escapes this fate, then it
is pulled. A second cause of pulling is a sudden relaxation of the grip of the right hand at
the time of hitting the ball. When this happens, the left hand, being uncontrolled, turns over
the club head in the same manner as in the first case, and the result is the same.

I have found from experience that it is necessary to enjoin even players of some years' standing
to make quite certain that they are slicing and pulling, before they complain about their doing
so and try to find cures for it. In a great number of cases a player will take his stance in
quite the wrong direction, either too much round to the right or too much to the left, and
when the ball has flown truly along the line on which it was despatched, the golfer blandly
remarks that it was a bad slice or a bad pull, as the case may be. He must bring himself to
understand that a ball is neither sliced nor pulled when it continues flying throughout in
the direction in which it started from the tee. It is only when it begins performing evolutions
in the air some distance away, and taking a half wheel to the right or left, that it has fallen
a victim to the slice or pull.

There is one more fault of the drive which must be mentioned. It is one of the commonest mistakes
that the young golfer makes, and one which afflicts him most keenly, for when he makes it his
drive is not a drive at all; all his power, or most of it, has been expended on the turf some
inches behind the ball. The right shoulder has been dropped too soon or too low. During the
address this shoulder is necessarily a little below the left one, and care must be taken at
this stage that it is not allowed to drop more than is necessary. At the top of the swing the
right shoulder is naturally well above the other one, and at the moment of impact with the
ball it should just have resumed its original position slightly below the left. It often happens,
however, that even very good golfers, after a period of excellent driving, through sheer over-confidence
or carelessness, will fall into the way of dropping the right shoulder too soon, or, when they
do drop it, letting it go altogether, so that it fairly sinks away. The result is exactly what
is to be expected. The head of the club naturally comes down with the shoulder and flops ineffectually
upon the turf behind the tee, anything from two to nine inches behind the ball. Yet, unless
the golfer has had various attacks of this sort of thing before, he is often puzzled to account
for it. The remedy is obvious.

I can imagine that many good golfers, now that I near the end of my hints on driving, may feel
some sense of disappointment because I have not given them a recipe for putting thirty or forty
yards on to their commonplace drives. I can only say that there is no trick or knack in doing
it, as is often suspected, such as the suggestion, already alluded to, that the wrists have
a little game of their own just when the club head is coming in contact with the ball. The
way to drive far is to comply with the utmost care with every injunction that I have set forth,
and then to hit hard but by the proper use of the swing. To some golfers this may be a dangerous
truth, but it must be told: it is accuracy and strength which make the long ball. But I seem
to hear the young player wail, "When I hit hard you say 'Don't press!'" A golfer is not pressing
when he swings through as fast as he can with his club, gaining speed steadily, although he
is often told that he is. But it most frequently happens that when he tries to get this extra
pace all at once, and not as the result of gradual improvement and perfection of style, that
it comes not smoothly but in a great jerk just before the ball is reached. This is certainly
the way that it comes when the golfer is off his game, and he tries, often unconsciously, to
make up in force what he has temporarily lost in skill. This really is pressing, and it is
this against which I must warn every golfer in the same grave manner that he has often been
warned before. But to the player who, by skill and diligence of practice, increases the smooth
and even pace of his swing, keeping his legs, body, arms, and head in their proper places all
the time, I have nothing to give but encouragement, though long before this he himself will
have discovered that he has found out the wonderful, delightful secret of the long ball.

Two chapters of detailed instruction are too much for a player to carry in his mind when he
goes out on to the links to practise drives, and for his benefit I will here make the briefest
possible summary of what I have already stated. Let him attend, then, to the following chief
points:--

Stance.--The player should stand just so far away from the ball, that when the face of the
driver is laid against it in position for striking, the other end of the shaft exactly reaches
to the left knee when the latter is slightly bent. The right foot may be anything up to seven
inches in front of the left, but certainly never behind it. The left toe should be a trifle
in advance of the ball. The toes should be turned outwards. Make a low tee.

Grip.--As described. Remember that the palm of the right hand presses hard on the left thumb
at all times except when nearing and at the top of the swing. The grip of the thumb and the
first two fingers of each hand is constantly firm.

Upward Swing.--The club head must be taken back in a straight line for a few inches, and then
brought round gradually--not too straight up (causing slicing) nor too far round in the old-fashioned
style. The speed of the swing increases gradually. The elbows are kept fairly well in, the
left wrist turning inwards and finishing the upward swing well underneath the shaft. The body
must not be allowed to sway. It should pivot easily from the waist. The head must be kept quite
still. The weight is gradually thrown entirely on to the right leg, the left knee bends inwards,
the left heel rises, and the toe pivots. There must be no jerk at the turn of the swing.

Downward Swing.--There should be a gradual increase of pace, but no jerk anywhere. The arms
must be kept well down when the club is descending, the elbows almost grazing the body. The
right wrist should not be allowed to get on to the top of the club. The head is still motionless.
The left hip is allowed to move forward very slightly while the club is coming down. The weight
of the body is gradually transferred from the right leg to the left, the right toe pivoting
after the impact, and the left leg stiffening. The right shoulder must be prevented from dropping
too much. After the impact the arms should be allowed to follow the ball and the body to go
forward, the latter movement being timed very carefully. The head may now be raised. Finish
with the arms well up--the right arm above the left.

Slicing.--This may be caused by standing too near to the ball, by pulling in the arms, or by
falling on the ball.

Pulling.--Usually caused by the head of the club being turned partly over when the ball is
struck, or by relaxing the grip with the right hand.

I can only agree with those who have followed me so patiently through these two chapters, that
to drive a golf ball well is a thing not to be learned in a week or a month.

When to your caddie you say "Give me my brassy" it is a sign that there is serious work to
be done--as serious and anxious as any that has to be accomplished during the six or seven
minutes' journey from the tee to the hole. Many golfers have a fondness for the brassy greater
even than for the driver, and the brassy shot when well played certainly affords a greater
sense of satisfaction than the drive--great as is the joy of a good drive--because one is conscious
of having triumphed over difficulties. When the ball is lying very well when it has to be played
through the green, the driver is naturally taken, but when the lie is very low, approaching
even to a cuppy character, the brassy is called for so that an effort may be made to pick the
ball up cleanly and despatch it to the full distance. Again, the stroke with the brassy must
always be a first-class one. One that is a little inferior to the best may place the player
in serious difficulties. On the other hand, the brassy seldom flatters its user, though in
the hands of a master player it is perhaps the club that will gain a stroke for him more often
than any other, the last bunker being surmounted and the green reached without any need for
a short approach with an iron club. Therefore the golfer must make up his mind to attain excellence
with the brassy, for mediocrity with it will always handicap him severely.

I have already insisted that the method of play, the stance, the swing, and all the rest of
it, should be the same with the brassy as with the driver, and that I do not believe in allowing
the slightest difference, the only result of which can be to increase the difficulty of the
brassy shot. Given a ball through the green lying fairly well, a level piece of earth to stand
upon, and a practically unlimited distance to be played, then the brassy stroke is absolutely
identical with the drive, and if the ball is sufficiently well teed, or its lie is clean enough,
there is no reason whatever why the driver should not be taken for the stroke. Obviously, however,
as the lie which you get for your second shot depends on chance, and must be taken as it is
found, there are times when a variation from the standard method of driving will be necessary,
and it is to the process of play on these occasions that I shall chiefly direct my remarks
in this chapter.

First, however, as to the brassy itself. Its shaft should be slightly stiffer than that of
the driver, for it has much harder and rougher work to accomplish, for which the whippy stick
of a slender driver would be too frail. In a desperate case, when the ball is lying in an apparently
impossible place, the brassy is sometimes taken, in the hope that the best may happen and the
situation be saved. That is why the brassy has a sole of brass which will cut away obstructions
behind the ball as the head of the club is swept on to it. It often happens that you must hit,
as it were, an inch or two behind the ball in order to get it up. Therefore let the shaft be
strong. It should be exactly the same length as that of the driver, and not a half inch or
an inch shorter, as is often recommended. I do not accept any argument in favour of the shorter
shaft. The golfer having driven from the tee needs to be persuaded that he has again what is
practically a driving shot to make for his second, and thus to be imbued with that feeling
of experience and confidence which makes for success. When the clubs are of the same length
there is equal familiarity in using them; but if he is given a shorter club to play his brassy
shot with, he feels that there is something of a novel nature to be done, and he wonders how.
The face of the brassy should be a little shorter than that of the driver, to permit of its
being worked into little depressions in which the ball may be lying; but this variation of
the construction of the head should not be carried to excess. Obviously there needs to be more
loft on the face of the club than on that of the driver.

The stance for the brassy stroke (see Plate VI.) is generally the same as for the drive, and
for reasons already stated my recommendation is that, so far as circumstances will permit,--we
are not on the teeing ground when we are playing the brassy,--it should always be the same.
If the player feels it to be desirable, he may stand an inch or two nearer to the ball, and
perhaps as much behind the ball when he wishes to get well underneath so as to lift it up.
The swing should be the same, save that more care should be taken to ensure the grip with the
hands being quite tight, for as the club head comes into contact with the turf before taking
the ball, the club may turn in the hands and cause a slice or pull unless perfect control be
kept over it.

A more important question is, where and how to hit the ball. If it is lying fairly well, it
is only necessary to skim the top of the turf and take it cleanly. There is no necessity in
such a case, as is too often imagined by inexperienced players, to delve down into the turf
so that the ball may be lifted up. If the stroke is played naturally, in the way I have indicated,
the loft on the face of the brassy is quite sufficient to give the necessary amount of rise
to the ball as it leaves the club. But if, as so often happens, the ball is just a trifle cupped,
a different attitude must be adopted towards it. It is now desired that the club should come
down to the turf about an inch behind the ball, and with this object in view the eyes should
be directed to that point, but as in addressing the ball the said point may be covered by the
head of the club, the sight should be set, not really on to the top of the club head, but to
an imaginary spot just at the side of the ball, so that when the club is drawn back the turf
and the point to look at come into full view and retain the attention of the eyes until the
stroke has been made. When the club is swung down on to that spot, its head will plough through
the turf and be well under the ball by the time it reaches it, and the desired rise will follow.
Swing in the same manner as for the drive. The commonest fault in the playing of this stroke
comes from the instinct of the player to try to scoop out the ball from its resting-place,
and in obedience to this instinct down goes the right shoulder when the club is coming on to
the ball. In the theory of the beginner this course of procedure may seem wise and proper,
but he will inevitably be disappointed with the result, and in time he will come to realise
that all attempts to scoop must fail. What the club cannot do in the ordinary way when pushed
through the turf as I have indicated, cannot be done at all, and it is dangerous to the stroke
and dangerous to one's game to trifle with the grand principles.

When the ball is really badly cupped, a moment must be given for inspection and consideration,
for the situation is an awkward one. At the first glance an iron club is usually suggested,
but there are many times when the golfer prefers to take the brassy if there is a reasonable
chance of its proving effective. In a case of this sort the ordinary methods of brassy play
must necessarily be departed from. What is wanted is a jabbing-out stroke, and to effect it
properly the sight must be set (as before) and the club come down on a spot almost two inches
behind the ball. There must be no timidity about hitting the ground or anxiety about the follow-through,
for in this case the follow-through, as we have understood it so far, is next to an impossibility,
and must not be sought for. In the upward swing the club should be taken out straighter than
usual, that is to say, the club head should be kept more closely to the A line, and it should
not be carried so far back as if an ordinary shot were being played. Obviously the club must
be held with an absolutely firm grip, and for the proper execution of a shot like this the
shaft should be exceptionally strong and stiff. If there is the least suggestion of whip in
it the ball is not extricated in the same way, and moreover there is sometimes a danger of
breaking a slender stick. However, if the golfer only carries one brassy in his bag--and the
average player will seldom carry two--this stroke might as well be risked, when the necessity
for it arises, with the brassy that is carried for all-round work.

Beyond these few observations there is little more to be said about simple brassy play, although
it is so difficult to master thoroughly, so supremely important to a good game, and so full
of variety and interest. In the use of no club is constant and strenuous practice better rewarded
by improvement in play and strokes gained.

The man with the spoon is coming back again to the links, and this seems to be the most convenient
opportunity for a few remarks on play with this club--the baffy, as it is frequently called.
One rarely mentions the spoon without being reminded of the difficulty as to the nomenclature
of golf which beset a certain Frenchman on his first introduction to the game. "They zay to
me," he complained, "'Will you take ze tee?' and I answer, 'Ah, oui,' but they give me no tea,
but make a leetle hill with the sand. Then they zay, 'Will you take the spoon?' They have give
me no tea, but no matter. I answer again, 'Ah, oui, monsieur,' but they give no spoon either.
So I give up the thought of the tea, and play with the new club that they do give to me." However,
that is neither here nor there. The baffy, or spoon, is a very useful club, which at one time
was a great favourite with many fine players, and if it has of late years been largely superseded
by the cleek, it is still most valuable to those players who are not so skilful or reliable
with this latter instrument as they would like to be. The baffy demands, for the achievement
of such success as it can afford, a fairly good lie, and when this is given it is a tolerably
easy club to play with. A good lie is essential because of its wooden head and long face, which
prevent it from getting down to the ball when the latter is at all cupped, as the cleek would
do, or as the brassy may be made to do when the jab shot is played. The baffy with its long
face cannot be burrowed into the turf so easily, nor can it nick in between the ball and the
side of the cup, but it makes a bridge over it, as it were, and thus takes the ball right on
the top and moves it only a few yards. A cleek would take the turf and the ball and make a
good hit. Therefore, when the lie is not reasonably perfect, the baffy is of little use, though
in favourable circumstances it is a useful stick. The shaft should be slightly longer than
that of the cleek, but appreciably shorter than that of the brassy, and it should be fairly
stiff. Its face, as already remarked, is much longer than that of the brassy, and it is given
several degrees more loft.

The method of play with the spoon is very much the same as with the brassy, with only such
modifications as are apparently necessary. For example, the club being shorter, the feet will
be placed slightly nearer to the ball; and although the baffy calls for a fairly long swing,
the player will find that he is naturally indisposed to take the club head so far round to
his back as he was with the other and longer wooden clubs. In other respects, the upward and
downward swing, the grip, the follow-through, and everything else are the same. With many players
the club is a particular favourite for the tee shot at short holes of, say, 140 to 160 yards
length with a tolerably high bunker guarding the green--a type of hole very frequently encountered,
and which simply calls for steady, sure play to get the bogey 3. The baffy does its work very
well in circumstances of this kind, and the ball is brought up fairly quickly upon the green;
but the man who is skilled with his irons will usually prefer one of them for the stroke, and
will get the coveted 2 as often as the man with the spoon.

Which is the master stroke in golf? That is an engaging question. Is it the perfect drive,
with every limb, muscle, and organ of the body working in splendid harmony with the result
of despatching the ball well beyond two hundred yards in a straight line from the tee? No,
it is not that, for there are some thousands of players who can drive what is to all intents
and purposes a perfect ball without any unusual effort. Is it the brassy shot which is equal
to a splendid drive, and which, delivering the ball in safety over the last hazard, places
it nicely upon the green, absolving the golfer from the necessity of playing any other approach?
No, though that is a most creditable achievement. Is it the approach over a threatening bunker
on to a difficult green where the ball can hardly be persuaded to remain, yet so deftly has
the cut been applied, and so finely has the strength been judged, that it stops dead against
the hole, and for a certainty a stroke is saved? This is a most satisfying shot which has in
its time won innumerable holes, but it is not the master stroke of golf. Then, is it the putt
from the corner of the green across many miniature hills and dales with a winding course over
which the ball must travel, often far away from the direct line, but which carries it at last
delightfully to the opening into which it sinks just as its strength is ebbing away? We all
know the thrilling ecstasy that comes from such a stroke as this, but it has always been helped
by a little good luck, and I would not call it the master stroke. There are inferior players
who are good putters. Which, then, is the master stroke? I say that it is the ball struck by
any club to which a big pull or slice is intentionally applied for the accomplishment of a
specific purpose which could not be achieved in any other way, and nothing more exemplifies
the curious waywardness of this game of ours than the fact that the stroke which is the confounding
and torture of the beginner who does it constantly, he knows not how, but always to his detriment,
should later on at times be the most coveted shot of all, and should then be the most difficult
of accomplishment. I call it the master shot because, to accomplish it with any certainty and
perfection, it is so difficult even to the experienced golfer, because it calls for the most
absolute command over the club and every nerve and sinew of the body, and the courageous heart
of the true sportsman whom no difficulty may daunt, and because, when properly done, it is
a splendid thing to see, and for a certainty results in material gain to the man who played it.

I will try, then, to give the golfers who desire them some hints as to how by diligence and
practice they may come to accomplish these master strokes; but I would warn them not to enter
into these deepest intricacies of the game until they have completely mastered all ordinary
strokes with their driver or brassy and can absolutely rely upon them, and even then the intentional
pull and slice should only be attempted when there is no way of accomplishing the purpose which
is likely to be equally satisfactory. Thus, when a long brassy shot to the green is wanted,
and one is most completely stymied by a formidable tree somewhere in the foreground or middle
distance, the only way to get to the hole is by working round the tree, either from the right
or from the left, and this can be done respectively by the pull and the slice. Of the two,
the sliced shot is the easier, and is to be recommended when the choice is quite open, though
it must not be overlooked that the pulled ball is the longer. The slicing action is not quite
so quick and sudden, and does not call for such extremely delicate accuracy as the other, and
therefore we will deal with it first.

The golfer should now pay very minute attention to the photographs (Nos. XIV., XV., and XVI.)
which were specially taken to illustrate these observations. It will be noticed at once that
I am standing very much more behind the ball than when making an ordinary straight drive or
brassy stroke, and this is indeed the governing feature of the slicing shot as far as the stance
and position of the golfer, preparatory to taking it, are concerned. An examination of the
position of the feet, both in the photograph (XIV.) and the accompanying diagram, will show
that the left toe is now exactly on the B line, that is to say, it is just level with the ball,
while the right foot is 25-1/2 inches away from the same mark, whereas in the case of the ordinary
drive it was only 19. At the same time the right foot has been moved very much nearer to the
A line, more than 10 inches in fact, although the left is only very slightly nearer. Obviously
the general effect of this change of stance is to move the body slightly round to the left.
There is no mystery as to how the slice is made. It comes simply as the result of the face
of the club being drawn across the ball at the time of impact, and it was precisely in this
way that it was accidentally accomplished when it was not wanted. In addressing the ball there
should be just the smallest trifle of extra weight thrown on the right leg; but care must be
taken that this difference is not exaggerated. The golfer should be scarcely conscious of it.

The grip is made in the usual manner, but there is a very material and all-important difference
in the upward swing. In its upward movement the club head now takes a line distinctly outside
that which is taken in the case of the ordinary drive, that is to say, it comes less round
the body and keeps on the straight line longer. When it is half-way up it should be about two
or three inches outside the course taken for the full straight drive. The object of this is
plain. The inflexible rule that as the club goes up so will it come down, is in operation again.
The club takes the same line on the return, and after it has struck the ball it naturally,
pursuing its own direction, comes inside the line taken in the case of the ordinary drive.
The result is that at the moment of impact, and for that fractional part of a second during
which the ball may be supposed to be clinging to the club, the face of the driver or brassy
is being, as it were, drawn across the ball as if cutting a slice out of it. There is no means,
so far as I know, of gauging how unthinkably short is the time during which this slicing process
is going on, but, as we observed, when we were slicing unintentionally and making the ball
curl round sometimes to an angle of ninety degrees before the finish of its flight, it is quite
long enough to effect the most radical alteration in what happens afterwards. In that short
space of time a spinning motion is put upon the ball, and a curious impulse which appears to
have something in common with that given to a boomerang is imparted, which sooner or later
take effect. In other respects, when a distant slice is wanted, the same principles of striking
the ball and finishing the swing as governed the ordinary drive are to be observed. What I
mean by a distant slice is one in which the ball is not asked to go round a corner until it
is well on its way, the tree, or whatever it is that has to be circumvented, being half-way
out or more, as shown in the diagram on opposite page. This is the most difficult kind of slice
to perform, inasmuch as the ball must be kept on a straight line until the object is approached,
and then made to curl round it as if by instinct. In such a case the club should be drawn very
gradually across, and not so much or so suddenly as when the slice is wanted immediately.

When the tree or thicket that stymies you is only twenty or thirty yards away, the short sliced
shot is not only the best but perhaps the only one to play, that is to say, if it is first-class
golf that is being practised and there is an opponent who is fighting hard. Take a case for
exemplification--one which is of the commonest occurrence. There is a long hole to be played,
and some thirty yards from the point which will be reached by a good drive, but well away to
the right there is a spinny of tall trees. The golfer is badly off the line with his drive,
with the result that he now has the trees in the direct line between him and the hole which
is the best part of a hundred yards from the other edge of the wood, or say a hundred and forty
from where the ball is lying. He might by a wonderfully lofted shot play the ball over the
obstacle, but he would have to rise at such an angle that any length would be an impossibility,
and he would be short of the green. The only alternative to the slice would be to accept the
loss of a stroke as inevitable, play away to the right or left, and then get on to the green
with the next one. Thus in either case a valuable stroke is lost, and if the enemy is playing
the correct game the loss may be most serious. The short or quick slice comes to the rescue
admirably. Turn the ball round the spinny, give it as much length as you can in the circumstances,
and if the job has been well done you will be on the green after all with the highly comforting
sensation that for once you have proved yourself a golfer of the first degree of skill, and
have snatched a half when the hole seemed lost. The diagram here presented illustrates the
best possibilities of a quick slice. I can explain in a line exactly how this is done, but
I cannot guarantee that my readers will therefore be able to do it until they have practised,
and practised, and practised yet again. Instead of hitting the ball with the middle of the
club face as in playing for the distant slice as already explained, hit it slightly nearer
the heel of the club. Swing upwards in the same way, and finish in the same way, also. Taking
the ball with the heel results in the slice being put on more quickly and in there being more
of it, but I need hardly observe that the stroke must be perfectly judged and played, and that
there must be no flaw in it anywhere, or disaster must surely follow. As I say, it is not an
easy shot to accomplish, but it is a splendid thing to do when wanted, and I strongly recommend
the golfer who has gained proficiency in the ordinary way with his wooden clubs, to practise
it whenever possible until at length he feels some confidence in playing it. It is one of those
strokes which mark the skilled and resourceful man, and which will win for him many a match.
Beyond the final admonition to practise, I have only one more piece of advice to give to the
golfer who wants to slice when a slice would be useful, and that is in the downward swing he
must guard against any inclination to pull in the arms too quickly, the result of his consciousness
that the club has to be drawn across the ball. Whatever is necessary in this way comes naturally
as the consequence of taking the club head more outwards than usual in the upward swing. Examine
the photographs very carefully in conjunction with the study of all the observations that I
have made.

Now there is the pulled ball to consider; for there are times when the making of such a shot
is eminently desirable. Resort to a slice may be unsatisfactory, or it may be entirely impossible,
and one important factor in this question is that the pulled ball is always much longer than
the other, in fact it has always so much length in it that many players in driving in the ordinary
way from the tee, and desiring only to go straight down the course, systematically play for
a pull and make allowances for it in their direction. Now examine Plate XVII. and the accompanying
diagram illustrating the stance for the pull, and see how very materially it differs from those
which were adopted for the ordinary drive and that in which a slice was asked for. We have
moved right round to the front of the ball. The right heel is on the B line and the toe 4 inches
away from it, while the left toe is no less than 21-1/2 inches from this line, and therefore
so much in front of the ball. At the same time the line of the stance shows that the player
is turned slightly away from the direction in which he proposes to play, the left toe being
now only 26-1/2 inches away from the A line, while the right toe is 32 inches distant from
it. The obvious result of this stance is that the handle of the club is in front of the ball,
and this circumstance must be accentuated by the hands being held even slightly more forward
than for an ordinary drive. Now they are held forward in front of the head of the club. In
the grip there is another point of difference. It is necessary that in the making of this stroke
the right hand should do more work than the left, and therefore the club should be held rather
more loosely by the left hand than by its partner. The latter will duly take advantage of this
slackness, and will get in just the little extra work that is wanted of it. In the upward swing
carry the club head just along the line which it would take for an ordinary drive. The result
of all this arrangement, and particularly of the slackness of the left hand and comparative
tightness of the right, is that there is a tendency in the downward swing for the face of the
club to turn over to some extent, that is, for the top edge of it to be overlapping the bottom
edge. This is exactly what is wanted, for, in fact, it is quite necessary that at the moment
of impact the right hand should be beginning to turn over in this manner, and if the stroke
is to be a success the golfer must see that it does so, but the movement must be made quite
smoothly and naturally, for anything in the nature of a jab, such as is common when too desperate
efforts are made to turn over an unwilling club, would certainly prove fatal. It follows from
what has been happening all the way through, that at the finish of the stroke the right hand,
which has matters pretty well its own way, has assumed final ascendancy and is well above the
left. Plates XVIII. and XIX. should be carefully examined.

The pulled ball is particularly useful in a cross wind, and this fact leads us naturally to
a consideration of the ways and means of playing the long shot with the wooden club to the
best advantage when there are winds of various kinds to test the resources of the golfer. Now,
however, that this question is raised, I feel it desirable to say without any hesitation that
the majority of golfers possess vastly exaggerated notions of the effect of strong cross winds
on the flight of their ball. They greatly overestimate the capabilities of a breeze. To judge
by their observations on the tee, one concludes that a wind from the left is often sufficient
to carry the ball away at an angle of forty-five degrees, and indeed sometimes, when it does
take such an exasperating course, and finishes its journey some fifty yards away from the point
to which it was desired to despatch it, there is an impatient exclamation from the disappointed
golfer, "Confound this wind! Who on earth can play in a hurricane!" or words to that effect.
Now I have quite satisfied myself that only a very strong wind indeed will carry a properly
driven ball more than a very few yards out of its course, and in proof of this I may say that
it is very seldom when I have to deal with a cross wind that I do anything but play straight
at the hole without any pulling or slicing or making allowances in any way. If golfers will
only bring themselves to ignore the wind, then it in turn will almost entirely ignore their
straight ball. When you find your ball at rest the aforementioned forty or fifty yards from
the point to which you desired to send it, make up your mind, however unpleasant it may be
to do so, that the trouble is due to an unintentional pull or slice, and you may get what consolation
you can from the fact that the slightest of these variations from the ordinary drive is seized
upon with delight by any wind, and its features exaggerated to an enormous extent. It is quite
possible, therefore, that a slice which would have taken the ball only twenty yards from the
line when there was no wind, will take it forty yards away with the kind assistance of its
friend and ally.

However, I freely admit that there are times when it is advisable to play a fancy shot when
there is an excess of wind, and the golfer must judge according to circumstances. Let me give
him this piece of advice: very rarely slice as a remedy against a cross wind. Either pull or
nothing. If there is a strong wind coming from the right, the immature golfer who has been
practising slices argues that this is his chance, and that it is his obvious duty to slice
his ball right into the teeth of that wind, so that wind and slice will neutralise each other,
and the ball as the result will pursue an even course in the straight line for the flag. A
few trials will prove to him that this is a very unsatisfactory business, and after he has
convinced himself about it I would recommend him to try pulling the ball and despatching it
at once along a line to the right directly against that same wind. When the pull begins to
operate, both this and the wind will be working together, and the ball will be carried a much
greater length, its straightness depending upon the accuracy of allowance. The diagram explains
my meaning. But I reiterate that the ordinary shots are generally the easiest and best with
which to get to the hole. The principle of the golfer should be, and I trust is, that he always
wants to reach the hole in the simplest and easiest way, with a minimum of doubt and anxiety
about any shot which he is called upon to play, and one usually finds that without these fancy
shots one comes to the flag as easily as is possible in all the circumstances. Of course I
am writing more particularly with the wind in mind, and am not recommending the ordinary shot
when there is a tree or a spinny for a stymie, in contradiction to what I have said earlier
in this chapter.

However, there is one kind of wind difficulty which it is certainly necessary to deal with
by a departure from the ordinary method of play with the driver or the brassy, and that is
when the wind is blowing straight up to the player from the hole, threatening to cut off all
his distance. Unless measures are taken to prevent it, a head wind of this description certainly
does make play extremely difficult, the comparative shortness of the drive making an unduly
long approach shot necessary, or even demanding an extra stroke at long holes in order to reach
the green. But, fortunately, we have discovered a means of dealing very satisfactorily with
these cases. What we want to do is to keep the ball as low down as possible so as to cheat
the wind, for the lower the ball the less opportunity has the breeze of getting to work upon
it. A combination of two or three methods is found to be the best for obtaining this low turf-skimming
ball, which yet has sufficient driving power in it to keep up until it has achieved a good
length. Evidently the first thing to do is to make the tee--if it is a tee shot--rather lower
than usual--as low as is consistent with safety and a clean stroke. The player should then
stand rather more in front of the ball than if he were playing for an ordinary drive, but this
forward position should not by any means be so marked as it was in the stance for the pulled
drive. A reference to Plate XX. and the diagram will show that now we have the ball exactly
half-way between the toes, each toe being twelve inches to the side of the B line, while both
are an inch nearer to the ball than was the case when the ordinary drive was being made. But
the most important departure that we make from the usual method of play is in the way we hit
the ball. So far we have invariably been keeping our gaze fixed on a point just behind it,
desiring that the club shall graze the ground and take the ball rather below the centre. But
now it is necessary that the ball shall be struck half-way up and before the club touches the
turf. Therefore keep the eye steadily fixed upon that point (see the right-hand ball in the
small diagram on page 170) and come down exactly on it. This is not an easy thing to do at
first; it requires a vast amount of practice to make sure of hitting the ball exactly at the
spot indicated, but the stroke when properly made is an excellent and most satisfying one.
After striking the ball in this way, the club head should continue its descent for an instant
so that it grazes the turf for the first time two or three inches in front of the spot where
the ball was. The passage of the club through the ball, as it were, is the same as in the case
of the push shot with the cleek, and therefore reference may usefully be made to the diagram
on page 106, which illustrates it. A natural result of the stance and the way the stroke is
played is that the arms are more extended than usual after the impact, and in the follow-through
the club head keeps nearer to the turf. So excellent are the results obtained when the stroke
is properly played, that there are many fine players, having a complete command over it, who
systematically play it from the tee whether there is a wind to contend against or not, simply
because of the length and accuracy which they secure from it. Braid is one of them. If the
teeing ground offers any choice of gradient, a tee with a hanging lie should be selected, and
the ball is then kept so low for the first forty or fifty yards that it is practically impossible
for the wind to take it off the line, for it must be remembered that even when the wind comes
dead from the front, if there is the slightest slice or pull on the ball to start with, it
will be increased to a disconcerting extent before the breeze has done with it.

When the wind is at the back of the player blowing hard towards the hole, the situation presents
no difficulty and needs very little consideration. The object in this case is to lift the ball
well up towards the clouds so that it may get the full benefit of the wind, though care must
be taken that plenty of driving length is put into the stroke at the same time. Therefore tee
the ball rather higher than usual, and bring your left foot more in a line with it than you
would if you were playing in the absence of wind, at the same time moving both feet slightly
nearer the ball. Plate XXI. will make the details of this stance quite clear. The ball being
teed unusually high, the golfer must be careful not to make any unconscious allowance for the
fact in his downward swing, and must see that he wipes the tee from the face of the earth when
he makes the stroke.

Though in my explanations of these various strokes I have generally confined myself to observations
as to how they may be made from the tee, they are strokes for the driver and the brassy,--for
all cases, that is, where the long ball is wanted from the wooden club under unusual circumstances
of difficulty. Evidently in many cases they will be more difficult to accomplish satisfactorily
from a brassy lie and with the shorter faced club than when the golfer has everything in his
favour on the teeing ground, and it must be left to his skill and discretion as to the use
he will make of them when playing through the green.

It is high time we came to consider the iron clubs that are in our bag. His play with the irons
is a fine test of the golfer. It calls for extreme skill and delicacy, and the man who is surest
with these implements is generally surest of his match. The fathers of golf had no clubs with
metal heads, and for a long time after they came into use there was a lingering prejudice against
them; but in these days there is no man so bold as to say that any long hole can always be
played so well with wood all through as with a mixture of wood and iron in the proper proportions.
It may be, as we are often told, that the last improvement in iron clubs has not yet been made;
but I must confess that the tools now at the disposal of the golfer come as near to my ideal
of the best for their purpose as I can imagine any tools to do, and no golfer is at liberty
to blame the clubmaker for his own incapacity on the links, though it may frequently happen
that his choice and taste in the matter of his golfing goods are at fault. There are many varieties
of every class of iron clubs, and their gradations of weight, of shape, of loft, and of all
their other features, are delicate almost to the point of invisibility; but the old golfer
who has an affection for a favourite club knows when another which he handles differs from
it to the extent of a single point in these gradations. Some golfers have spent a lifetime
in the search for a complete set of irons, each one of which was exactly its owner's ideal,
and have died with their task still unaccomplished. Happy then is the player who in his early
days has irons over all of which he has obtained complete mastery, and which he can rely upon
to do their duty, and do it well, when the match is keen and their owner is sorely pressed
by a relentless opponent.

First of these iron clubs give me the cleek, the most powerful and generally useful of them
all, though one which is much abused and often called hard names. If you wish, you may drive
a very long ball with a cleek, and if the spirit moves you so to do you may wind up the play
at the hole by putting with it too. But these after all are what I may call its unofficial
uses, for the club has its own particular duties, and for the performance of them there is
no adequate substitute. Therefore, when a golfer says, as misguided golfers sometimes do, that
he cannot play with the cleek, that he gets equal or superior results with other clubs, and
that therefore he has abandoned it to permanent seclusion in the locker, you may shake your
head at him, for he is only deceiving himself. Like the wares of boastful advertisers, there
is no other which is "just as good," and if a golfer finds that he can do no business with
his cleek, the sooner he learns to do it the better will it be for his game.

And there are many different kinds of cleeks, the choice from which is to a large extent to
be regulated by experiment and individual fancy. Some men fancy one type, and some another,
and each of them obtains approximately the same result from his own selection, but it is natural
that a driving cleek, which is specially designed for obtaining length, having a fairly straight
face and plenty of weight, will generally deliver the ball further than those which are more
lofted and lighter. Making a broad classification, there are driving cleeks, ordinary cleeks,
pitching cleeks, and cleeks with the weight in the centre. For the last-named variety I have
little admiration, excellent as many people consider them to be. If the ball is hit with absolute
accuracy in the centre of the club's face every time, all is well; but it is not given to many
golfers to be so marvellously certain. Let the point of contact be the least degree removed
from the centre of the face, where the weight is massed, and the result will usually be disquieting,
for, among other things, there is in such cases a great liability for the club to turn in the
hands of the player.

As an alternative to the cleek the driving mashie has achieved considerable popularity. It
is undoubtedly a most useful club, and is employed for the same class of work as the cleek,
and, generally speaking, may take its place. The distinctive features of the driving mashie
are that it has a deeper face than that of the cleek, and that this depth increases somewhat
more rapidly from the heel to the toe. By reason of this extra depth it is often a somewhat
heavier club, and there is rather less loft on it than there is on the average cleek. When
you merely look at a driving mashie it certainly seems as if it may be the easier club to use,
but long experience will prove that this is not the case. In this respect I think the driving
cleek is preferable to either the spoon or the driving mashie, particularly when straightness
is an essential, as it usually is when any of these clubs is being handled. It frequently happens
that the driving mashie is used to very good effect for a while after it has first been purchased;
but I have noticed over and over again that when once you are off your play with it--and that
time must come, as with all other clubs--it takes a long time to get back to form with it again,--so
long, indeed, that the task is a most painful and depressing one. Five years ago I myself had
my day with the driving mashie, and I played so well with it that at that time I did not even
carry a cleek. I used to drive such a long ball with this instrument, that when I took it out
of my bag to play with it, my brother professionals used to say, "There's Harry with his driver
again"; and I remember that when on one occasion Andrew Kirkaldy was informed that I was playing
a driving mashie shot, he was indignant, and exclaimed, "Mashie! Nay, man, thon's no mashie.
It's jest a driver." Then the day came when I found to my sorrow that I was off my driving
mashie, and not all the most laborious practice or the fiercest determination to recover my
lost form with it was rewarded with any appreciable amount of success. After a time I got back
to playing it in some sort of fashion, but I was never so good with it again as to justify
me in sticking to it in preference to the cleek, so since then I have practically abandoned
it. This, I am led to believe, is a fairly common experience among golfers, so the moral would
seem to be, that you should make the most of your good days with the driving mashie, that at
the first sign of decaying power with the club another and most thorough trial should be given
to the deserted cleek, and that at this crisis that club should be persevered with in preference
to the tool which has failed. The driving mashie usually demands a good lie if it is to be
played with any amount of success. When, in addition to the lie being cuppy, the turf is at
all soft and spongy--and these two circumstances are frequently combined--the ball very often
skids off the face of the club, chiefly because of its perpendicularity, instead of rising
nicely from the moment of impact as it would do when carefully played by a suitable cleek.
Of course if the turf is firm there is much greater chance of success with the driving mashie
than if it is loose. But one finds by long experience that the cleek is the best and most reliable
club for use in all these difficult circumstances. Even the driving cleeks have a certain amount
of loft on their faces which enables them to get nicely under the ball, so that it rises with
just sufficient quickness after being struck. And there is far less skidding with the cleek.

This question of skidding calls to mind another feature of iron clubs generally, and those
which are designed for power and length in particular, which has not in the past received all
the consideration that it deserves. I am about to speak of the decided advantage which in my
opinion accrues from the use of iron clubs with ribbed faces in preference to those which are
smooth and plain. Some golfers of the sceptical sort have a notion that the ribs or other marking
are merely ornamental, or, at the best, give some satisfaction to the fancy; but these are
certainly not their limits. The counteraction to skidding by the ribbed face is undoubtedly
very great, and there are certain circumstances in which I consider it to be quite invaluable.
Suppose the ball is lying fairly low in grass. It is clear to the player that his iron club,
as it approaches it, will be called upon to force its way through some of the grass, and that
as it comes into contact with the ball many green blades will inevitably be crushed between
the face of the club and the ball, with the result, in the case of the plain-faced club, that
further progress in the matter of the follow-through will be to some extent impeded. But when
the face of the club is ribbed, at the instant of contact between ball and club the grass that
comes between is cut through by the ribs, and thus there is less waste of the power of the
swing. The difference may be only small; but whether it is an ounce or two or merely a few
pennyweights, it is the trifle of this kind that tells. And, of course, the tendency to skid
is greater than ever when the grass through the green, or where the ball has to be played from,
is not so short as it ought to be, and the value of the ribbed face is correspondingly increased.

Now we may examine the peculiarities of play with the cleek, the term for the remainder of
this chapter being taken to include the driving mashie. It will be found that the shaft of
the cleek is usually some two to four inches shorter than the driver, and this circumstance
in itself is sufficient to demand a considerable modification in the stance and method of use.
I now invite the reader to examine the photograph and diagram of the ordinary cleek shot (Plate
XXII.), and to compare it when necessary with Plate VI., representing the stance for the drive.
It will be found that the right foot is only 21-1/2 inches from the A line as against 27-1/2
when driving, and the left toe is only 24 inches from it as compared with 34. From this it
appears that the left foot has been brought more forward into line with the right, but it is
still behind it, and it is essential that it should be so, in order that the arms may be allowed
a free passage through after the stroke. The feet remain about the same distance apart, but
it should be noticed that the whole body has been moved forward some four inches in relation
to the ball, the distances of the right and left toes from the B line being respectively 19
and 9-1/2 inches in the case of the drive and 15 and 12 in that of the cleek shot. The stance
in the case of all iron clubs should be studied with great care, for a half inch the wrong
way seems to have a much greater power for evil than it does in the case of wooden clubs.

The handle of the cleek is gripped in the same manner as the driver, but perhaps a little more
tightly, for, as the club comes severely into contact with the turf, one must guard against
the possibility of its turning in the hands. Ground the club behind the ball exactly in the
place and in the way that you intend to hit it. There is a considerable similarity between
the swings with the driver and the cleek. Great care must be taken when making the backward
swing that the body is not lifted upwards, as there is a tendency for it to be. When pivoting
on the left toe, the body should bend slightly and turn from the waist, the head being kept
perfectly still. Thus it comes about that the golfer's system appears to be working in three
independent sections--first from the feet to the hips, next from the hips to the neck, and
then the head. The result of this combination of movements is that at the top of the swing,
when everything has happened as it should do, the eyes will be looking over the top of the
left shoulder--just as when at the top of driving swing. The body should not be an inch higher
than when the address was made, and the right leg will now be straight and stiff. When the
club is held tightly, there will be practically no danger of overswinging; but, as with the
drive, the pressure with the palms of the hands may be a little relaxed at the top. The backward
swing must not be so rapid that control of the club is in any degree lost, and once again the
player must be warned against allowing any pause at the top. In coming down the cleek should
gain its speed gradually, so that at the time of impact it is travelling at its fastest pace,
and then, if the toes are right and the shoulders doing their duty, the follow-through will
almost certainly be performed properly. The right shoulder must be carefully watched lest it
drops too much or too quickly. The club must, as it were, be in front of it all the way. If
the shoulder gets in front, a sclaffed ball is almost sure to be the result, the club coming
into contact with the turf much too soon. If the stroke is finished correctly, the body will
then be facing the flag.

So much, for the time being, for the full shot with the cleek. Personally, however, I do not
favour a really full shot either with the cleek or any other iron club. When the limit of capability
is demanded with this or most other iron clubs in the bag, it is time to consider whether a
wooden instrument should not be employed. Therefore I very seldom play the full cleek shot,
but limit myself to one which may be said to be slightly above the three-quarters. This is
usually quite sufficient for all purposes of length, and it is easier with this limit of swing
to keep the wrists and the club generally more under control. Little more can be said by way
of printed instruction regarding the ordinary cleek shot, which is called for when the distance
to be played falls short of a full brassy, or, on the other hand, when the lie is of too cuppy
a character to render the use of the brassy possible with any amount of safety.

Many players, however, who are young in experience, and some who are older too, seem to imagine
that the simplest stroke, as just described, is the limit of the resources of the cleek, and
never give it credit for the versatility which it undoubtedly possesses. There is another shot
with the cleek which is more difficult than that we have just been discussing, one which it
will take many weeks of arduous practice to master, but which, in my opinion, is one of the
most valuable and telling shots in golf, and that is the push which is a half shot. Of all
the strokes that I like to play, this is my favourite. It is a half shot, but as a matter of
fact almost as much length can be obtained with it as in any other way. It is a somewhat peculiar
shot, and must be played very exactly. In the first place, either a shorter cleek (about two
inches shorter, and preferably with a little more loft than the driving cleek possesses) should
be used, or the other one must be gripped lower down the handle. A glance at Plate XXVI. and
the diagram in the corner will show that the stance is taken much nearer to the ball than when
an ordinary cleek shot was being played, that particularly the right foot is nearer, and that
the body and feet have again been moved a trifle to the left. Moreover, it is recommended that
in the address the hands should be held a little more forward than usual. In this half shot
the club is not swung so far back, nor is the follow-through continued so far at the finish.
To make a complete success of this stroke, the ball must be hit in much the same manner as
when a low ball was wanted in driving against the wind. In playing an ordinary cleek shot,
the turf is grazed before the ball in the usual manner; but to make this half or push shot
perfectly, the sight should be directed to the centre of the ball, and the club should be brought
directly on to it (exactly on the spot marked on the diagram on page 170). In this way the
turf should be grazed for the first time an inch or two on the far side of the ball. The diagram
on this page shows the passage of the club through the ball, as it were, exactly. Then not
only is the ball kept low, but certain peculiarities are imparted to its flight, which are
of the utmost value when a half shot with the cleek is called for. Not only may the ball be
depended upon never to rise above a certain height, but, having reached its highest point,
it seems to come down very quickly, travelling but a few yards more, and having very little
run on it when it reaches the turf again. When this shot is once mastered, it will be found
that these are very valuable peculiarities, for a long approach shot can be gauged with splendid
accuracy. The ball is sent forwards and upwards until it is almost overhanging the green, and
then down it comes close to the pin. I admit that when the ball is hit in this way the shot
is made rather difficult--though not so difficult as it looks--and, of course, it is not absolutely
imperative that this method should be followed. Some good players make the stroke in the same
way as the full shot, so far as hitting the ball is concerned, but in doing so they certainly
lose the advantages I have pointed out, and stand less chance of scoring through a finely placed
ball. I may remark that personally I play not only my half cleek stroke but all my cleek strokes
in this way, so much am I devoted to the qualities of flight which are thereby imparted to
the ball, and though I do not insist that others should do likewise in all cases, I am certainly
of opinion that they are missing something when they do not learn to play the half shot in
this manner. The greatest danger they have to fear is that in their too conscious efforts to
keep the club clear of the ground until after the impact, they will overdo it and simply top
the ball, when, of course, there will be no flight at all. I suggest that when this stroke
is being practised a close watch should be kept over the forearms and wrists, from which most
of the work is wanted. The arms should be kept well in, and the wrists should be very tight
and firm. It should be pointed out that there are some circumstances in which it is not safe
to attempt to play this stroke. When the club comes to the ground after impact with the ball,
very little turf should be taken. It is enough if the grass is shaved well down to the roots.
But if the turf is soft and yielding, the club head will have an inevitable tendency to burrow,
with the result that it would be next to impossible to follow-through properly with the stroke,
and that the ball would skid off, generally to the right. The shot is therefore played to greatest
advantage on a hard and fairly dry course.

Many people are inclined to ask why, instead of playing a half shot with the cleek, the iron
is not taken and a full stroke made with it, which is the way that a large proportion of good
golfers would employ for reaching the green from the same distance. For some reason which I
cannot explain, there seems to be an enormous number of players who prefer a full shot with
any club to a half shot with another, the result being the same or practically so. Why is it
that they like to swing so much and waste so much power, unmindful of the fact that the shorter
the swing the greater the accuracy? The principle of my own game, and that which I always impress
upon others when I have an opportunity, is, "Reach the hole in the easiest way you can." The
easier way is generally the surer way. When, therefore, there is a choice between a full shot
with one club or a half shot with another, I invariably ask the caddie for the instrument with
which to make the half shot. Hence, apart from the advantageous peculiarities of the stroke
which I have pointed out, I should always play the half cleek shot in preference to the full
iron, because, to my mind, it is easier and safer, and because there is less danger of the
ball skidding off the club. In the same way I prefer a half iron shot to a full one with the
mashie. If the golfer attains any proficiency with the stroke, he will probably be very much
enamoured of it, and will think it well worth the trouble of carrying a club specially for
the purpose, at all events on all important occasions.

There is another variety of cleek shot which calls for separate mention. It is played when
a low ball is wanted to cut its way through a head wind, and for the proper explanation of
this useful stroke I have supplied a special series of photographs from which it may be studied
to advantage. As will be seen from them, this stroke is, to all intents and purposes, a modified
half or push stroke, the most essential difference being in the stance. The feet are a trifle
nearer the ball and considerably more forward, my right heel as a matter of fact being only
2-1/2 inches from the B line. Take a half swing, hit the ball before the turf as in the case
of the push, and finish with the shaft of the club almost perpendicular, the arms and wrists
being held in severe subjection throughout. The ball skims ahead low down like a swallow, and
by the time it begins to rise and the wind to act upon it, it has almost reached its destination,
and the wind is now welcome as a brake.

Having thus dealt with these different cleek shots separately, I think some useful instruction
may be obtained from a comparison of them, noting the points of difference as they are set
forth in the photographs. An examination of the pictures will at once suggest that there is
much more in the stance than had been suspected. In the case of the full cleek shot it is noticeable
that the stance is opener than in any of the others, and that the body is more erect. The object
of this is to allow freedom of the swing without altering the position of the body during the
upward movement. I mean particularly that the head is not so likely to get out of its place
as it would be if the body had been more bent while the address was being made. It ought not
to be, but is the case, that when pivoting on the left foot during the progress of a long upward
swing, there is a frequent inclination, as already pointed out, to raise the body, so that
the position of the latter at the top of the swing is altogether wrong, and has to be corrected
in the downward swing before the ball is reached. When, as often happens, this is done too
suddenly, a sclaff is the result. Therefore an obvious recommendation is to stand at the ball
with the same amount of erectness as there will be at the top of the swing. And remember that
when you pivot on the left toe, the lift that there is here should not spread along to the
head and shoulders, but should be absorbed, as it were, at the waist, which should bend inwards
and turn round on the hips. Once the head has taken its position, it should never move again
until the ball has been struck. Mind that you do not fall away from the ball when the club
is about to come into contact with it. I have observed a considerable tendency in that direction
on the part of many young players. I have pressed several of these points home in other places,
but the success of the stroke is so bound up with a proper observation of them that I think
they cannot be too frequently or too strongly insisted upon.

If we take one more glance at all the different cleek stroke photographs, we shall see that
in each case the toes are turned well outwards. I find that unless they take this position
the player has not the same freedom for turning upon them. In the case of full shots the weight
is more evenly divided upon both feet than in the case of others. Thus, when the stance for
a half or three-quarter cleek shot is taken, the weight of the body falls more on the right
leg than on the left. As you have not to swing so far back, you are able to maintain this position.
You could not do so if a full stroke were being taken; hence you would not then adopt it. Again,
one allows the wrists and muscles less play in the case of half shots than in full ones. There
is more stiffness all round. This, however, must not be taken to suggest that even in the case
of the full shot there is any looseness at the wrists. If there were, it would be most in evidence
just when it would be most fatal, that is to say, at the moment of impact. The wrists must
always be kept severely under control. It will also be noticed from the photographs, that at
the top of the swings for both the full shot and the half shot the body is in much the same
position, but when the low shot against the wind is being played it is pushed a little forward.
I mention these details by way of suggesting how much can be discovered from a close and attentive
study of these photographs only. Little things like these, when not noticed and attended to,
may bother a player for many weeks; while, on the other hand, he may frequently find out from
a scrutiny of the pictures and diagrams the faults which have baffled him on the links. In
this connection the "How not to do it" photographs should be of particular value to the player
who is in trouble with his cleek. Look at the faulty stance and address in Plate XXXII. At
the first glance you can see that this is not a natural stance; the player is cramped and uncomfortable.
The grip is altogether wrong. The hands are too far apart, and the right hand is too much under
the shaft. The body would not hold its position during the swing, and in any case a correct
swing would be impossible. Yet this photograph does not exaggerate the bad methods of some
players. In Plate XXVII. we have the player in a stance which is nearly as bad as before; but
it is evident that in this case the body has been lifted during the upward swing, and the left
hand is rather too much on the top of the shaft.

Evidently it will take some time to bring the cleek completely into subjection. There is, of
course, no such thing as an all-round club in golf, but the nearest to it is this one, and
the man who is master of it is rarely in a serious difficulty. He can even play a respectable
round with a cleek alone, and there is no form of practice less wearisome, more diverting,
or more eminently valuable and instructive, than that which is to be obtained on a fine afternoon
by taking out the cleek and doing a round of the course with it from the tee to the hole in
every case, and making use of all the different strokes that I have described in the course
of this chapter.

When I mention that useful iron-headed club that goes by the simple name of iron, I am conscious
that I bring forward a subject that is dear to the hearts of many golfers who have not yet
come to play with certainty with all their instruments. For the iron is often the golfer's
favourite club, and it has won this place of affection in his mind because it has been found
in the course of long experience that it plays him fewer tricks than any of the others--that
it is more dependable. This may be to some extent because with the average golfer such fine
work is seldom required from the simple iron as is wanted from other clubs from time to time.
The distance to be covered is always well within the capabilities of the club, or it would
not be employed, and the average golfer of whom we speak, who has still a handicap of several
strokes, is usually tolerably well satisfied if with it he places the ball anywhere on the
green, from which point he will be enabled to hole out in the additional regulation two strokes.
And the green is often enough a large place, so the iron is fortunate in its task. But it goes
without saying that by those who have the skill for it, and sufficiently realise the possibilities
of all their tools, some of the finest work in golf may be done with the iron. When it is called
for the player is within easy reach of the hole. The really long work has been accomplished,
and the prime consideration now is that of accuracy. Therefore the man who feels himself able
to play for the pin and not merely for the green, is he who is in the confidence of his iron
and knows that there are great things to be done with it.

The fault I have to find with the iron play of most golfers is that it comes at the wrong time.
I find them lunging out with all their power at full shots with their irons when they might
be far better employed in effecting one of those pretty low shots made with the cleek at the
half swing. It is not in the nature of things that the full iron should be as true as the half
cleek, where there is such a reserve of strength, and the body, being less in a state of strain,
the mind can be more concentrated on straightness and the accurate determination of length.
I suspect that this full shot is so often played and the preference for the iron is established,
not merely because it nearly always does its work tolerably satisfactorily, but because in
the simple matter of looks there is something inviting about the iron. It has a fair amount
of loft, and it is deeper in the face than the cleek, and at a casual inspection of its points
it seems an easy club to play with. On the other hand, being a little nearer to the hole, the
average player deserts his iron for the mashie much sooner than I care to do. Your 10-handicap
man never gives a second thought as to the tool he shall use when he has arrived within a hundred
yards of the hole. Is he not then approaching in deadly earnest, and has he not grown up in
golf with a definite understanding that there is one thing, and one only, with which to give
the true artistic finish to the play through the green? Therefore out of his bag comes the
mashie, which, if it could speak, would surely protest that it is a delicate club with some
fine breeding in it, and that it was never meant to do this slogging with long swings that
comes properly in the departments of its iron friends. I seldom use a mashie until I am within
eighty yards of the hole. Up to that point I keep my iron in action. Much better, I say, is
a flick with the iron than a thump with the mashie.

The iron that I most commonly use is nearly two inches shorter than my cleek. It follows that
the stance is taken slightly nearer to the ball; but reason for moving closer to our A line
is to be found in what I might describe as the more upright lie of an iron as compared with
a cleek. When the lower edge of the club is laid evenly upon the level turf, the stick will
usually be found to be a trifle more vertical than in the case of the cleek, and therefore
for the proper preservation of the natural lie of the club the golfer must come forward to
it. Consequently I find that when I have taken my stance for an iron shot (Plate XXXVII.),
my right foot has come forward no less than 8-1/2 inches from the point at which it rested
when I was taking a tolerably full shot with the cleek. The left foot is 3-1/2 inches nearer.
Thus the body has been very slightly turned in the direction of the hole, and while the feet
are a trifle closer together, the ball is rather nearer to the right toe than it was when being
addressed by the cleek. Those are the only features of the stance, and the only one I really
insist upon is the nearness to the ball. The commonest defect to be found with iron play is
the failure to address the ball and play the stroke through with the sole of the club laid
evenly upon the ground from toe to heel. When the man is too far from the ball, it commonly
follows that the blade of the club comes down on to the turf heel first. Then something that
was not bargained for happens. It may be that the ball was taken by the centre of the iron's
face, and that the upward and downward swings and the follow-through were all perfection, and
yet it has shot away to one side or the other with very little flight in it. And perhaps for
a week or two, while this is constantly happening, the man is wondering why. When, happily,
the reason is at last made apparent, the man goes forward to its correction with that workmanlike
thoroughness which characterises him always and everywhere, and lo! the erring ball still pursues
a line which does not lead to the green. At the same time it may very likely be noticed that
the slight sense of twisting which was experienced by the hands on the earlier occasion is
here again. The truth is that the first fault was over-corrected, and the toe of the club,
instead of the heel, has this time had the turf to itself while the ball was being removed.
Obviously, when either of these faults is committed, the club head is twisted, and nothing
is more impossible than to get in a perfect iron shot when these things are done. I am making
much ado about what may seem after all to be an elementary fault, but a long experience of
the wayward golfer has made it clear to me that it is not only a common fault, which is accountable
for much defective play with the iron, but that it is often unsuspected, and lurks undiscovered
and doing its daily damage for weeks or even months. The sole of the iron must pass over the
turf exactly parallel with it.

There is nothing new to say about the swing of the iron. It is the same as the swing of the
cleek. For a full iron the swing is as long as for the full cleek, and for the half iron it
is as long as for the half cleek, and both are made in the same way. The arms and wrists are
managed similarly, and I would only offer the special advice that the player should make sure
that he finishes with his hands well up, showing that the ball has been taken easily and properly,
as he may see them in the photograph (Plate XXXIX.), which in itself tells a very good story
of comfortable and free play with the club, which is at the same time held in full command.
The whole of the series of photographs of iron shots brings out very exactly the points that
I desire to illustrate, and I cannot do better than refer my readers to them.

When it is desired to play a half iron shot that will give a low ball for travelling against
the wind, the same methods may be pursued as when playing the corresponding shot with the cleek.

When one comes to play with the iron, and is within, say, 130 yards of the hole, the regulation
of the precise amount of power to be applied to the ball becomes a matter of the first importance,
and one that causes unceasing anxiety. I feel, then, that it devolves upon me to convey a solemn
warning to all players of moderate experience, that the distance the ball will be despatched
is governed entirely by the extent of the backward swing of the club. When a few extra yards
are wanted, put an additional inch or two on to the backward swing, and so on; but never, however
you may satisfy yourself with excuses that you are doing a wise and proper thing, attempt to
force the pace at which the club is travelling in the downward swing, or, on the other hand,
attempt to check it. I believe in the club being brought down fairly quickly in the case of
all iron shots; but it should be the natural speed that comes as the result of the speed and
length of the upward swing, and the gain in it should be even and continuous throughout. Try,
therefore, always to swing back at the same rate, and to come on to the ball naturally and
easily afterwards. Of course, in accordance with the simple laws of gravity and applied force,
the farther back you swing the faster will your club be travelling when it reaches the ball,
and the harder will be the hit. Therefore, if the golfer will learn by experience exactly how
far back he should swing with a certain club in order to get a certain distance, and will teach
himself to swing to just the right length and with always the same amount of force applied,
the rest is in the hands of Nature, and can be depended upon with far more certainty than anything
which the wayward hands and head of the golfer can accomplish. This is a very simple and obvious
truth, but it is one of the main principles of golf, and one that is far too often neglected.
How frequently do you see a player take a full swing when a half shot is all that is wanted,
and even when his instinct tells him that the half shot is the game. What happens? The instinct
assumes the upper hand at the top of the swing, and the man with the guilty conscience deliberately
puts a brake on to his club as it is coming down. He knows that he has gone too far back, and
he is anxious then to reduce the speed of the club by unnatural means. But the principles of
golf are not to be so lightly tampered with in this manner, and it affords the conscientious
player some secret satisfaction to observe that very rarely indeed is anything of a success
made of shots of this sort. A duffed stroke is the common result. In such cases the swing is
of no more value than if it had not taken place at all.

There is an old saying that golf matches are won on the putting greens, and it has often been
established that this one, like many other old sayings, contains an element of truth, but is
not entirely to be relied upon. In playing a hole, what is one's constant desire and anxiety
from the tee shot to the last putt? It is to effect, somehow or other, that happy combination
of excellent skill with a little luck as will result practically in the saving of a whole stroke,
which will often mean the winning of the hole. The prospect of being able to exercise this
useful economy is greatest when the mashie is taken in hand. The difference between a good
drive and a poor one is not very often to be represented by anything like half a stroke. But
the difference between a really good mashie approach stroke and a bad one is frequently at
least a stroke, and I have known it to be more. Between the brilliant and the average it is
one full stroke. Of course a stroke is saved and a hole very often won when a long putt is
holed, but in cases of this kind the proportion of luck to skill is much too great to give
perfect satisfaction to the conscientious golfer, however delightful the momentary sensation
may be. When a man is playing his mashie well, he is leaving himself very little to do on the
putting green, so that, if occasionally he does miss a putt, he can afford to do so, having
constantly been getting so near to the flag that one putt has sufficed. When the work with
the mashie is indifferent or poor, the player is frequently left with long putts to negotiate,
and is in a fever of anxiety until the last stroke has been made on the green. It often happens
at these times that the putting also is poor, and when this is the case a sad mess is made
of the score. Therefore, while I say that he is a happy and lucky man who is able constantly
to save his game on the putting greens, happier by far is he who is not called upon to do so.
In this way the skilled golfer generally finds the mashie the most fascinating club to play
with, and there are few pleasures in the game which can equal that of laying the ball well
up to the pin from a distance of many yards. One expects to get much nearer to it with this
last of the irons than with the cleek or the simple iron, and the more nearly the flag is approached
the greater the skill and experience of the player. Here, indeed, is a field for lifelong practice,
with a telling advantage accruing from each slight improvement in play.

First a word as to the club, for there is scarcely an article in the golfer's kit which presents
more scope for variety of taste and style. Drivers and brassies vary a little, cleeks and irons
differ much, but mashies are more unlike each other than any of them. So much depends upon
this part of the game, and so much upon the preferences and peculiarities of the player, that
it is unlikely that the first mashie in which he invests will go alone with him through his
experience as a golfer. To his stock there will be added other mashies, and it is probable
that only after years of experiment will he come to a final determination as to which is the
best for him to use. In this question of the choice of mashie it is necessary that taste and
style should be allowed to have their own way. However, to the hesitating golfer, or to him
whose mashie play so far has been somewhat disappointing, I give with confidence the advice
to use a mashie which is very fairly lofted and which is deep in the blade. I can see no use
in the mashie with the narrow blade which, when (as so often happens when near the green) the
ball is lying in grass which is not as short as it might be, often passes right under the ball--a
loss of a stroke at the most critical moment, which is the most exasperating thing I know.
Again, for a last hint I suggest that he should see that his shaft is both stiff and strong.
This instrument being used generally for lighter work than the other iron clubs, and the delicacy
and exactness of it being, as a rule, the chief considerations, there is a natural tendency
on the part of the golfer sometimes to favour a thinner stick than usual. But it should be
borne in mind that there should be no trace of "give" in the shaft, for such would be all against
the accuracy that is wanted, and a man when he is playing the short approach shot wants to
feel that he has a club in his hand that can be relied upon in its every fibre. Moreover, gentle
as is much of its work, even the mashie at times has some very rough jobs to accomplish. So
let the stick be fairly stiff.

Of mashie shots there is an infinite variety. In this stroke not only are the lie of the ball
and the distance it has to be sent controlling factors in the way it has to be played, but
now the nature and qualities of the green which is being approached constitute another, and
one which occasions more thought and anxiety than any. Generally all mashie shots may be separated
into three groups. There is what we may call the ordinary mashie shot to begin with--meaning
thereby a simple lofted stroke,--there is the running-up mashie shot, and there is the special
stroke which applies extra spin and cut to the ball. There are very pronounced differences
between these strokes and the ways of playing them. One is often told that "all mashies should
be played with the wrist." I beg to differ. As I have said before, I contend that there is
no such thing as a purely wrist shot in golf--except on the putting green. If anybody really
made up his mind to play his mashie with his wrist and his wrist alone, he would find the blade
of his club in uncomfortable proximity to his face at the finish of the stroke, and I should
not like to hazard a guess as to where the ball might be. The fact of the matter is, that those
who so often say that the mashie must be played with the wrist never attempt to play it in
this way themselves. They are merely misled by the fact that for the majority of mashie strokes
a shorter swing and less freedom of the arms are desirable than when other iron clubs are being
employed. An attempt has been made to play a pure wrist shot in the "How not to do it" photograph,
No. XLVIII., and I am sure nobody ever made a success of a stroke like that.

The stance for the mashie differs from that taken when an iron shot is being played, in that
the feet are placed nearer to each other and nearer to the ball. Comparison between the photographs
and diagrams will make the extent of these differences and the peculiarities of the stance
for the mashie quite clear. The right toe is advanced until it is within 11 inches of the A
line, the ball is opposite the left heel, the left foot is turned slightly more outwardly than
usual. As for the grip, the only observation that it is necessary to make is, that if a very
short shot is being played it is sometimes best to grasp the club low down at the bottom of
the handle, but in no circumstances do I approve of the hands leaving the leather and getting
on to the wood as players sometimes permit them to do. When the player is so desperately anxious
to get so near to the blade with his hands, he should use a shorter club. It should also be
noticed that the body is more relaxed than formerly, that there is more bend at the elbows,
that the arms are not so stiff, and that there is the least suspicion, moreover, of slackness
at the knees. The whole attitude is arranged for ease, delicacy of touch, and extreme accuracy,
whereas formerly simple straightness and power were the governing considerations. To the eye
of the uninitiated, many of these photographs may seem very much alike; but a little attentive
study of those showing the stances for the iron and mashie will make the essential differences
very apparent. In the address the right knee is perceptibly bent, and all the weight of the
body is thrown on to it. In the backward swing the right knee stiffens and the left bends in,
the left foot leaning slightly over to facilitate its doing so. There is a great tendency on
the part of inexperienced or uncertain players to pivot on the left toe in the most exaggerated
manner even when playing a very short mashie stroke. Unless a full shot is being taken, there
should not only be no pivoting with the mashie, but the left heel, throughout the stroke, should
be kept either touching the ground or raised only the least distance above it. In the backward
swing the right knee is stiffened and the left knee bends in towards the ball, simply in order
to let the club go back properly, which it could hardly do if the original pose were retained.
It is particularly requisite that, though there is so much ease elsewhere, the club in the
case of these mashie shots should be held quite tightly. They are not played with the wrists
alone, but with the wrists and the forearms, and a firm grip is an essential to success.

When considering the nature of the backward swing, the question arises as to how far it should
be prolonged, and I have already declared myself against making long shots with the mashie.
It is my strong conviction that a man is playing the best and safest golf when he attempts
nothing beyond eighty yards with his mashie, using an iron or a cleek for anything longer.
It is very seldom that I play my mashie at a distance of over eighty yards, and the limit of
the swing that I ever give to it is a three-quarter, which is what I call an ordinary mashie
stroke, and should be sufficient to do anything ever to be attempted with this club. But some
golfers like taking the fullest mashie stroke that they can, and, when hesitating between the
use of an iron or the lofting club, they usually decide in favour of the latter. "I think I
can reach it with my mashie," they always say, and so they whirl away and commit the most frightful
abuse on a splendid club, which was never intended to have its capabilities strained in order
to reach anything. Instead of saying that "they think they can reach it with their mashie,"
these golfers should try to decide that "a half iron will not carry them too far." It is easier
and safer. Whenever a ball has a distance to go, I believe in keeping it fairly low down, as
low as the hazards will permit, believing that in this way by constant practice it is possible
to ensure much greater accuracy than in any other way. No golfer has much control over a ball
that is sent up towards the sky. The mashie is meant to loft, and it is practically impossible
to play a long shot with it without lofting the ball very much and exposing it to all the wind
that there is about. As very little driving power has been imparted to the ball, what wind
there may be has considerably more effect upon it than upon the flight of other balls played
with other iron clubs.

The line of the backward swing should be much the same as that for the half shot with the cleek,
but the body should be held a little more rigidly, and not be allowed to pivot quite so much
from the waist as when playing with any of the other clubs which have been described. The downward
swing is the same as before, and in the case of the ordinary stroke which we are speaking of,
the turf should be hit immediately behind the ball. As soon as the impact has been effected,
the body should be allowed to go forward with the club, care being taken that it does not start
too soon and is in front.

The great anxiety of the immature player when making this stroke is to get the ball properly
lofted, and in some obstinate cases it seems to take several seasons of experience to convince
him completely that the club has been specially made for the purpose, and, if fairly used,
is quite adequate. This man cannot get rid of the idea that the player lofts the ball, or at
least gives material assistance to the club in doing it. What happens? Observe this gentleman
when he and his ball are on the wrong side of a hazard which is guarding the green, and notice
the very deliberate way in which he goes about doing the one thing that he has been told hundreds
of times by the most experienced players can only be attended by the most disastrous and costly
failure. He has made up his mind that he will scoop the ball over the bunker. He will not trust
to his club to do this important piece of business. So down goes the right shoulder and into
the bunker goes the ball, and one more good hole has been lost. He doesn't know how it happened;
he thinks the mashie must be the most difficult club in the world to play with, and he complains
of his terrible luck; but by the time the approach shot to the next hole comes to be played
he is at it again. There is nobody so persistent as the scooper, and the failure that attends
his efforts is a fair revenge by the club for the slight that is cast upon its capabilities,
for the chances are that if the stroke had been played in just the ordinary manner without
any thought whatever of the bunker, and if the ground had been hit just a trifle behind the
ball, the latter would have been dropped easily and comfortably upon the green. Some golfers
also seem to imagine that they have done all that they could reasonably be expected to do when
they have taken a divot, and even if the shot has proved a failure they derive some comfort
from the divot they have taken, the said divot usually being a huge slab of turf, the removal
of which makes a gaping wound in the links. But there is nothing to be proud of in this achievement,
for it does not by any means imply that the stroke has been properly made. To hit the ball
correctly when making an approach with the mashie, it is necessary to take a little--just a
very little--turf. This is so, because the ball will not fly and rise properly as the club
desires to make it do, unless it is taken in the exact middle of the club, which has a deeper
face than others. I mean middle, not only as regards the distance from heel to toe, but between
the top edge of the blade and the sole. A moment's consideration will make it clear that if
the stroke were to be made quite cleanly, that is to say, if the club merely grazed the ground
without going into it, the ball would inevitably be taken by the lower part of the blade near
to the sole and much below the centre where the impact ought to be. Therefore it is apparent
that, in order to take it from the centre, the blade must be forced underneath, and if the
swing is made in the manner directed and the turf is taken just the least distance behind the
ball--which, of course, means keeping the eye just so much more to the right than usual--all
that is necessary will be easily accomplished. Apart from the loft, I think a little more accuracy
is ensured by the removal of that inch or two of turf.

Now there is that most valuable stroke, the running-up approach, to consider. When skilfully
performed, it is often most wonderfully and delightfully effective. It is used chiefly for
short approaches when the ground outside the putting green is fairly good and there is either
no hazard at all to be surmounted, or one that is so very low or sunken as not to cause any
serious inconvenience. When the running-up shot is played in these circumstances by the man
who knows how to play it, he can generally depend on getting much nearer to the hole than if
he were obliged to play with a pitch alone. It is properly classified as a mashie shot, but
there are golfers who do it with an iron. Others like a straight-faced mashie for the purpose;
and a third section have a preference for the ordinary mashie, and play for a pitch and run.
These are details of fancy in which I cannot properly interfere. The stance for the stroke
differs from that for an ordinary mashie shot in that the feet and body are further in front,
the right toe, for instance, being fully six inches nearer to the B line (see Plate XLIX.).
The club may be gripped lower down the handle. Moreover, it should be held forward, slightly
in front of the head. The swing back should be very straight, and should not be carried nearly
so far as in playing an ordinary mashie stroke, for in this case the ball requires very little
propulsion. This is one of the few shots in golf in which the right hand is called upon to
do most of the work, and that it may be encouraged to do so the hold with the left hand should
be slightly relaxed. With the right hand then fastening tightly to the handle, it comes about
that the toe of the club at the time of the impact is slightly in front of the heel, and this
combination of causes tends to give the necessary run to the ball when it takes the ground.
The work of the right hand in the case of this stroke is delicate and exact, and it must be
very carefully timed, for if it is done too suddenly or too soon the result is likely to be
a foundered ball. The club having been taken so straight out in the backward swing, the natural
tendency will be to draw it very slightly across the ball when contact is made, and the blade,
then progressing towards the left foot, should to finish be taken a few inches further round
towards the back than in the case of an ordinary mashie shot. One cannot very well compare
the two in words, however, for the finishes are altogether different, as an examination of
the illustration of the finish of the running-up stroke will show. In this case the swing stops
when the shaft of the club is pointing a little to the left of the direction of the ball that
is speeding onwards, the blade being on a level with the hands. It will be observed that at
the finish the right hand is well over on the handle. This is the kind of stroke that the practised
and skilful golfer loves most, for few others afford him such a test of calculation and judgment.
It will not do to make the stroke haphazard. Before the blade of the club is moved for the
upward swing, a very clear understanding should have been formed as to the amount of pitch
that is to be given to the ball and the amount of run. They must be in exactly the proper proportion
to suit the circumstances, which will vary almost every time the stroke is made. Nearly everything
depends on the state of the land that is to be traversed. The fact of the matter is, that this
shot is really a combination of lofting and putting with many more uncertain quantities to
be dealt with than when one is really putting on the green. When one has decided where the
pitch must be, the utmost pains should be taken to pitch there exactly, which, as the distance
will usually be trifling, ought not to be a difficult matter. An error of even a foot in a
shot of this kind is sometimes a serious matter. When properly done it is an exceedingly pretty
shot, and one which brings great peace to the soul of the man who has done it.

And now we come to that exquisite stroke, the approach, to which much cut and spin have been
applied for a specific purpose. It is a shot which should only be played when circumstances
render it absolutely necessary. There are times when it is the only one which will afford the
golfer a good chance of coming well through a trying ordeal. When we play it we want the ball
to stop dead almost as soon as it reaches the turf at the end of the pitch. If there is a tolerably
high bunker guarding the green, and the flag is most awkwardly situated just at the other side,
it is the only shot that can be played. A stroke that would loft the ball over the bunker in
the ordinary manner would carry it far beyond the hole--too far to make the subsequent putting
anything but a most difficult matter. Or, on the other hand, leaving out of the question the
hole which is hiding just on the other side of the hazard protecting the green, it often happens
in the summer-time, when greens are hard and fiery, that it is absolutely impossible to make
a ball which has been pitched on to them in the ordinary manner stay there. Away it goes bouncing
far off on to the other side, and another approach shot has to be played, often by reason of
a hazard having been found, more difficult than the first. If there must be a pitch, then the
thing to do is to try to apply a brake to the ball when it comes down, and we can only do this
by cutting it. There are greens which at most seasons of the year demand that the ball reaching
them shall be cut for a dead drop, such as the green laid at a steep angle when the golfer
has to approach it from the elevated side. A little cut is a comparatively easy thing to accomplish,
but when the brake is really wanted it is usually a most pronounced cut, that will bring the
ball up dead or nearly so, that is called for, and this is a most difficult stroke. I regard
the ordinary mashie as the best club with which to make it, but there are some good golfers
who like the niblick for this task, and it is undoubtedly productive of good results. However,
I will suppose that it is to be attempted with the mashie.

The stance is quite different from that which was adopted when the running-up shot was being
played. Now the man comes more behind the ball, and the right foot goes forward until the toe
is within 8 inches of the A line, while the instep of the left foot is right across B. The
feet also are rather closer together. An examination of Plate L. will give an exact idea of
the peculiarities of the stance for this stroke. Grip the club very low down on the handle,
but see that the right hand does not get off the leather. This time, in the upward swing let
the blade of the mashie go well outside the natural line for an ordinary swing, that is to
say, as far away from the body in the direction of the A line as is felt to be comfortable
and convenient. While this is being done, the left elbow should be held more stiffly and kept
more severely under control than the right. At the top of the swing--which, as will be seen
from the picture of it (Plate LI.), is only a short half swing, and considerably shorter than
that for an ordinary mashie shot--neither arm is at full length, the right being well bent
and the left slightly. When this upward swing has been made correctly, the blade of the mashie
naturally comes across the ball at the time of impact, and in this way a certain amount of
cut is applied. But this is not the limit of the possibilities of cutting, as many golfers
seem to imagine, nor is it sufficient to meet some of the extreme cases which occasionally
present themselves. To do our utmost in this direction we must decide that extremely little
turf must be taken, for it is obvious that unless the bare blade gets to work on the ball it
cannot do all that it is capable of doing. The metal must go right underneath the ball, just
skimming the grass in the process, and scarcely removing any of the turf. It is also most important
that at the instant when ball and club come into contact the blade should be drawn quickly
towards the left foot. To do this properly requires not only much dexterity but most accurate
timing, and first attempts are likely to be very clumsy and disappointing. But many of the
difficulties will disappear with practice, and when at last some kind of proficiency has been
obtained, it will be found that the ball answers in the most obedient manner to the call that
is made upon it. It will come down so dead upon the green that it may be pitched up into the
air until it is almost directly over the spot at which it is desired to place it. In playing
this stroke a great deal depends on the mastery which the golfer obtains over his forearms
and wrists. At the moment of impact the arms should be nearly full length and stiff, and the
wrists as stiff as it is possible to make them. I said that the drawing of the blade towards
the left foot would have to be done quickly, because obviously there is very little time to
lose; but it must be done smoothly and evenly, without a jerk, which would upset the whole
swing, and if it is begun the smallest fraction of a second too soon the ball will be taken
by the toe of the club, and the consequences will not be satisfactory. I have returned to make
this the last word about the cut because it is the essence of the stroke, and it calls for
what a young player may well regard as an almost hopeless nicety of perfection.

There is another little approach shot which is usually called the chip on to the green, but
which is really nothing but the pitch and run on a very small scale. It is used when the ball
has only just failed to reach the green, or has gone beyond it, and is lying in the rougher
grass only a very few yards from the edge of it. It often happens in cases of this sort that
the putter may be ventured upon, but when that is too risky a little pitch is given to the
ball and it is allowed to run the last three or four yards to the hole. An ordinary iron will
often be found the most useful club for the purpose.

Latterly a new kind of club has become fashionable in some quarters for approaching. They call
it the jigger, and, having a longer blade than the ordinary mashie, its users argue that it
is easier to play with. That may be true to a certain extent when the ball is lying nicely,
but we are not always favoured with this good fortune, and I have no hesitation in saying that
for inferior or cuppy lies the jigger is a very ineffectual instrument. The long head cannot
get into the cups, and the accuracy that is always called for in approaching is made impossible.
If a jigger must be carried in the bag, it should be merely as an auxiliary to the ordinary mashie.

Such are the shots with the mashie, and glad is the man who has mastered all of them, for he
is then a golfer of great pretensions, who is to be feared by any opponent at any time or place.

This is a hateful subject, but one which demands the most careful and unprejudiced consideration,
for are not even the best of us bunkered almost daily? There is nothing like the bunkers on
a golf links for separating the philosophic from the unphilosophic among a golfing crowd, and
when a representative of each section is in a bunker at the same time it is heavy odds on the
philosopher winning the hole. There are two respects in which he differs from his opponent
at this crisis in his golfing affairs. He does not become flurried, excited, and despondent,
and give the hole up for lost with a feeling of disgust that he had committed the most unpardonable
sin. He remembers that there are still various strokes to be played before the hole is reached,
and that it is quite possible that in the meantime his friend may somewhere lose one and enable
him to get on level terms again. When two players with plus handicaps are engaged in a match,
a bunkered ball will generally mean a lost hole, but others who have not climbed to this pinnacle
of excellence are far too pessimistic if they assume that this rule operates in their case
also. The second matter in which the philosophic golfer rises superior to his less favoured
brother when there is a bunker stroke to be played, is that he fully realises that the bunker
was placed there for the particular purpose of catching certain defective shots, and that the
definite idea of its constructors was that the man who played such a shot should lose a stroke
as penalty for doing so--every time. It is legitimate for us occasionally to put it to ourselves
that those constructors did not know the long limits of our resource nor the craftiness we
are able to display when in a very tight corner, and that therefore, if we find a favourable
opportunity, we may cheat the bunker out of the stroke that it threatens to take from us. But
this does not happen often. When the golfer has brought himself to realise that, having played
into a bunker, he has lost a stroke or the best part of one, and accepts the position without
any further ado, he has gone a long way in the cultivation of the most desirable properties
of mind and temperament with which any player of the game can be endowed. This man, recognising
that his stroke is lost, when he goes up to his ball and studies the many difficulties of its
situation, plays for the mere purpose of getting out again, and probably putting himself on
the other side in that one stroke which was lost. It does not matter to him if he only gets
two yards beyond the bunker--just far enough to enable him to take his stance and swing properly
for the next shot. Distance is positively no object whatever, and in this way he insures himself
against further loss, and goes the right way to make up for his misfortune.

Now, what does the other man do in like circumstances? Unreasonably and foolishly he refuses
to accept the inevitable, and declines to give up the idea of getting to a point a hundred
yards or more in front with his next shot, which he would have reached if he had not been in
the bunker. He seems to think that the men who made the bunkers did not know their business.
Having been bunkered, he says to himself that it is his duty to himself and to the game to
make up for the stroke which was lost by supremely brilliant recovery under the most disheartening
circumstances. He insists that the recovery must be made here in the bunker, and thereafter
he will progress as usual. It never occurs to him that it would be wiser and safer to content
himself with just getting out the hazard, and then, playing under comparatively easy and comfortable
conditions, to make his grand attempt at recovering the lost stroke. He would be much more
likely to succeed. A stroke lost or gained is of equal value at any point on the route from
the tee to the hole, and it is a simple fact, too often never realised, that a long putt makes
up for a short drive, and a mashie shot laid dead for a previous stroke from which the ball
was trapped in the bunker. But the unphilosophic gentleman, who is ignorant of, or tries to
resist, these truths, feels that his bunkered stroke must be compensated for by the next one
or never. What is the result? Recklessly, unscientifically, even ludicrously, he fires away
at the ball in the bunker with a cleek or an iron or a mashie, striving his utmost to get length,
when, with the frowning cliff of the bunker high in front of him and possibly even overhanging
him, no length is possible. At the first attempt he fails to get out. His second stroke in
the hazard shares the same fate. With a third or a fourth his ball by some extraordinary and
lucky chance may just creep over the top of the ridge. How it came to do so when played in
this manner nobody knows. The fact can only be explained by the argument that if you keep on
doing the same thing something is sure to happen in the end, and it is a sufficient warning
to these bunkered golfers that the gods of golf have so large a sense of justice and of right
and wrong that by this time the hole has for a certainty been lost. The slashing player who
wants to drive his long ball out of the bunker very rarely indeed gets even this little creep
over the crest until he has played two or three more, and is in a desperate state of lost temper.
An alternative result to his efforts comes about when he has played these three or four more,
and his ball is, if anything, more hopelessly bunkered than ever. All sense of what is due
to the game and to his own dignity is then suddenly lost, and a strange sight is often seen.
Five, six, and seven more follow in quick succession, the man's arms working like the piston
of a locomotive, and his eyes by this time being quite blinded to the ball, the sand, the bunker,
and everything else. As an interesting feature of what we might call golfing physiology, I
seriously suggest that players of these habits and temperament, when they begin to work like
a steam-engine in the bunker, do not see the ball at all for the last few strokes. The next
time they indulge in their peculiar performance, let them ask themselves immediately afterwards
whether they did see it or not, and in the majority of cases they will have to answer in the
negative. When it is over, a few impious words are uttered, the ball is picked up, and there
is a slow and gloomy march to the next tee, from which it is unlikely that a good drive will
be made. The nervous system of the misguided golfer has been so completely upset by the recent
occurrences, that he may not recover his equanimity until several more strokes have been played,
or perhaps until the round is over and the distressing incidents have at last passed from his mind.

This has been a long story about a thing that happens on most links every day, but the moral
of it could hardly have been emphasised properly or adequately if it had been told in fewer
words, or if the naked truth had been wrapped up in any more agreeable terms. The moral obviously
is, that the golfer on being bunkered must concentrate his whole mind, capabilities, and energies
on getting out in one stroke, and must resolutely refrain from attempting length at the same
time, for, in nine cases out of ten, length is impossible. There are indeed occasions when
so light a sentence has been passed by the bunker on the erring ball that a long shot is practicable,
but they are very rare, and come in an entirely different category from the average bunkered
ball, and we will consider them in due course. On the other hand, there are times when it is
manifestly impossible even to get to the other side of the bunker in a single stroke, as when
the ball is tucked up at the foot of a steep and perhaps overhanging cliff. Still the man must
keep before himself the fact that his main object is to get out in the fewest strokes possible,
and in a case of this sort he may be wise to play back, particularly if it is a medal round
that he is engaged upon. If he plays back he is still in the running for his prize if his golf
has been satisfactory up to this point, for an addition of two strokes to his score through
such an accident, though a serious handicap, is seldom a hopeless one. If he does not play
back his chance of victory may disappear entirely at this bunker. His instinct tells him that
it probably will do so. Which then is the wiser and better course to take?

Now, then, let us consider the ways and means of getting out of bunkers, and take in our hands
the most unpopular club that our bags contain. We never look upon the niblick with any of that
lingering affection which is constantly bestowed on all the other instruments that we possess,
as we reflect upon the splendid deeds that they have performed for us on many memorable occasions.
The niblick revives only unpleasant memories, but less than justice is done to this unfortunate
club, for, given fair treatment, it will accomplish most excellent and remunerative work in
rescuing its owner from the predicaments in which his carelessness or bad luck in handling
the others has placed him. There is little variety in niblicks, and therefore no necessity
to discourse upon their points, for no professional is ever likely to stock a niblick for sale
that is unequal to the performance of its peculiar duties. It has rougher and heavier work
to do than any other club, and more brute force is requisitioned in employing it than at any
other time. Therefore the shaft should be as strong as it is possible for it to be, and it
should be so stiff that it will not bend under the most severe pressure. The head should be
rather small and round, with plenty of loft upon it, and very heavy. A light niblick is useless.

It is difficult to advise as to the stance that should be taken for a niblick shot in a bunker,
inasmuch as it so frequently happens that this is governed by circumstances which are quite
beyond the golfer's control. He must learn to adapt himself in the best possible manner to
the conditions in which he finds himself, and it will often happen that he is cramped for space,
he may be unable to get a proper or comfortable place for one or both of his feet, or he may
be obliged to stand with one foot--generally the left one--considerably above the other. But
when there are none of these difficulties besetting him, it may be said that generally the
stance most suited to a stroke with the niblick is similar to that which would be taken for
a long shot with an iron, except perhaps that the player should stand a little nearer to the
ball, so that he may be well over it while making his swing. The most important respect in
which the swing differs from that of the iron is that the club is brought up much straighter.
By this I mean that the head of the club should not be allowed to come round quite so much,
but throughout its course should be kept as nearly as possible overhanging what we have been
calling the A line. The swing, indeed, is much more of what I call an upright character than
that of any other stroke in the game, and at the top of it, the blade having passed over the
right shoulder and the golfer's head, the shaft should be nearly horizontal and right over
the back of the head, an example of which may be seen in Plate LIII., where I have a fairly
good lie, but am rather badly bunkered for all that, being only a couple of feet from the base
of a high and tolerably steep bank.

If there is such a thing as an average bunker shot, this is the one, and I am now describing
the method of dealing with cases of this and similar character. There must be no thought of
hitting the ball cleanly with the club in a case of this kind, or in any other than the most
exceptional situations or emergencies when bunkered. The club must hit the sand, and the sand
must move the ball, but the iron blade of the niblick must hardly ever come into contact with
the ball. To prevent its doing so, and to ensure the blade getting underneath sufficiently
to lift the ball up at the very sharp angle that is necessary if it is to surmount the obstruction
in front of it, the sand should be struck at a point fully two inches behind the ball. If the
sand is exceedingly light and dry, so that it offers very little resistance to the passage
of the club, this distance may be slightly increased, or it may be diminished if the lie in
the bunker is very heavy, consisting of gravel or clay. It is on this point, so far behind
the ball, that the eye must, of course, be sternly and rigidly fixed, and it is a duty which
the beginner frequently finds most difficult to fulfil. In the downward swing the club should
be brought on to the spot indicated with all the speed and force of which the golfer is capable.
At other times he may have had a yearning to press, which he has with difficulty stifled. He
may make up for all these ungratified desires by pressing now with all the strength in his
body, and the harder the better so long as he keeps his eye steadily fixed on that point behind
the ball and is sure that his muscular efforts will not interfere with his accuracy. After
all, the latter need not be quite so fine in this case as in the many others that we have already
discussed, for an eighth of an inch one way or the other does not much matter in the case of
a niblick shot where there are two inches of sand to plough through. Swing harder than ever
on to the sand, with the knowledge that the swing will end there, for a follow-through is not
desired and would in many cases be impossible. When the heavy blade goes crash into the sand
and blows it, and the ball with it, up into the air as if the electric touch had been given
to an explosive mine, the club has finished its work, and when the golfer is at rest again
and is surveying the results of his labours--with his eyes, let us hope, directed to the further
side of the hazard--the blade will still remain in the cavity that it has made in the floor
of the bunker. If any attempt were made to follow through, it is highly probable that sufficient
sand would not be taken to make the ball rise up soon enough.

However, the more one reflects upon bunkers and niblicks, the more does one feel that the circumstances
must govern the method of playing each of these strokes, and there is no finer field for the
display of the golfer's judgment and resource than this. The next best accomplishment to the
negative one of avoiding bunkers is that of getting out again with the least waste of strokes
and distance; and, indeed, I should say that the man who is somewhat addicted to being bunkered
but invariably makes a good recovery, is at least on level terms with another who is in trouble
not quite so frequently but who suffers terribly when he is. The golden rule--I say it once
again--is to make certain of getting out; but now that I have sufficiently emphasised this
point, I am ready to consider those few occasions when it appears a little weak and unsatisfactory.
Certainly there are times, as we all know, when the enemy, having had matters his own way at
a hole, it will not be of the slightest use merely to scramble out of a bunker in one stroke.
The case is so desperate that a stroke that will carry the ball for perhaps 100 or 120 yards
is called for. Such a necessity does not affect my rule as to making certain of getting out,
for in practical golf one cannot take any serious account of emergencies of this kind. But
there are times when every player must either attempt the shot that most frequently baffles
his superiors, or forthwith give up the hole, and it is not in human nature to cave in while
the faintest spark of hope remains. In thus attempting the impossible, or the only dimly possible,
we are sometimes led even to take the brassy in a bunker. In a case of this sort, of course,
everything depends on the lie of the ball and its distance from the face of the bunker. When
it is a shallow pot bunker, the shot is often practicable, and sometimes when one is bunkered
on a seaside course the hazard is so wide that there is time for the ball to rise sufficiently
to clear the obstruction. But the average bunker on an inland course, say four feet high with
only six feet of sand before it, presents few such loopholes for escape. The difficulty of
playing a shot from a bunker when any club other than the niblick, such as the brassy, is chosen
with the object of obtaining length by hitting the ball clean, is obviously increased by the
rule which prohibits the grounding of the club in addressing. To be on the safe side, the sole
of the club is often kept fully an inch and a half above the sand when the address is being
made, and this inch and a half has to be corrected down to an eighth in the forward swing,
for of all shots that must be taken accurately this one so full of difficulty must be. In making
his correction the man is very likely to overdo it and strike the sand before the ball, causing
a sclaff, or, on the other hand, not to correct sufficiently when the only possible result
would be a topped ball and probably a hopeless position in the hazard. It is indeed a rashly
speculative shot, and one of the most difficult imaginable. It comes off sometimes, but it
is a pure matter of chance when it does, and the lucky player is hardly entitled to that award
of merit which he may fancy he deserves.

When the situation of the bunkered ball is unusually hopeful, and there does really seem to
be a very fair prospect of making a good long shot, I think it generally pays best to play
straight at the hazard, putting just a little cut on the ball to help it to rise, and employing
any club that suggests itself for the purpose. I think, in such circumstances, that it pays
best to go straight for the hazard, because, if length is urgently demanded, what is the use
of playing at an angle? Again, though there is undoubtedly an advantage gained by taking a
bunker crossways, and thus giving the ball more time to rise, the advantage is often greatly
exaggerated in the golfer's mind. When a ball is bunkered right on the edge of the green, it
is sometimes best to try to pick it up not quite but almost cleanly with the niblick or mashie,
in the hope that one more stroke afterwards will be sufficient either to win or halve the hole,
whereas an ordinary shot with the niblick would not be likely to succeed so well. If, after
due contemplation of all the heavy risks, it is decided to make such an attempt, the stroke
should be played very much after the fashion of the mashie approach with cut. I need hardly
say that such a shot is one of the most difficult the golfer will ever have occasion to attempt.
The ordinary cut mashie stroke is hard to accomplish, but the cut niblick is harder still.
I have already given directions for the playing of such shots, and the rest must be left to
the golfer's daring and his judgment.

Putting in golf is a game within another game. While I am not prepared to endorse the opinion
that is commonly expressed, that a golfer is born and not made, I am convinced that no amount
of teaching will make a golfer hole out long putts with any frequency, nor will it even make
him at all certain of getting the short ones down. But it will certainly put him in the right
way of hitting the ball, which after all will be a considerable gain. Experience counts for
very much, and it will convert a man who was originally a bad putter into one who will generally
hold his own on the greens, or even be superior to the majority of his fellows. Even experience,
however, counts for less in putting than in any other department of the game, and there are
many days in every player's life when he realises only too sadly that it seems to count for
nothing at all. Do we not from time to time see beginners who have been on the links but a
single month, or even less than that, laying their long putts as dead as anybody could wish
almost every time, and getting an amazing percentage of them into the tin itself? Often enough
they seem to do these things simply because, as we should say, they know nothing at all about
putting, which is perhaps another way of saying that their minds are never embarrassed by an
oppressive knowledge of all the difficulties which the ball will meet with in its passage from
the club to the hole, and of the necessity of taking steps to counteract them all. They are
not afraid of the hole. The fact is that putting is to a far greater extent than most of us
suspect purely a matter of confidence. When a man feels that he can putt he putts, and when
he has a doubt about it he almost invariably makes a poor show upon the greens. Do I not know
to my cost what it is to feel that I cannot putt, and on those occasions to miss the most absurdly
little ones that ever wait to be popped into the hole without a moment's thought or hesitation?
It is surely the strangest of the many strange things in golf, that the old player, hero of
many senior medal days, victor in matches over a hundred links, will at times, when the fortunes
of an important game depend upon his action, miss a little putt that his ten-year-old daughter
would get down nine times out of ten. She, dear little thing, does not yet know the terrors
of the short putt. Sometimes it is the most nerve-breaking thing to be found on the hundred
acres of a golf course. The heart that does not quail when a yawning bunker lies far ahead
of the tee just at the distance of a good drive, beats in trouble when there are but thirty
inches of smooth even turf to be run over before the play of the hole is ended. I am reminded
of a story of Andrew Kirkaldy, who in his young days once carried for a young student of divinity
who was most painfully nervous on the putting greens, and repeatedly lost holes in consequence.
When Andrew could stand this reckless waste of opportunities no longer, he exclaimed to his
employer, "Man, this is awfu' wark. Ye're dreivin' like a roarin' lion and puttin' like a puir
kittlin'." But the men whose occupations are of the philosophical and peaceful kind are not
the only ones who may be fairly likened to Andrew's "puir kittlin'" when there are short putts
to be holed. Is there not the famous case of the Anglo-Indian sportsman, one of the mightiest
of hunters, who feared nothing like the hole when it lay so near to him that his tears of agony
might almost have fallen into it? It was this man who declared, "I have encountered all the
manifold perils of the jungle, I have tracked the huge elephant to his destruction, and I have
stood eye to eye with the man-eating tiger. And never once have I trembled until I came to
a short putt." Yet with such facts as these before us, some people still wonder wherein lies
the fascination of golf. How often does it happen that an inch on the putting green is worth
more than a hundred yards in the drive, and that the best of players are confounded by this
circumstance? It is very nearly true, as Willie Park has so often said, that the man who can
putt need fear nobody. Certainly a player can never be really great until he is nearly always
certain to hole out in two putts on the green, and to get down a few in one. The approach stroke
has been well played when the ball comes to rest within four or five feet of the pin, but what
is the use of that unless the ball is to be putted out more often than not in one more stroke?

For the proper playing of the other strokes in golf, I have told my readers to the best of
my ability how they should stand and where they should put their feet. But except for the playing
of particular strokes, which come within the category of those called "fancy," I have no similar
instruction to offer in the matter of putting. There is no rule, and there is no best way.
Sometimes you see a player bend down and hold the putter right out in front of him with both
wrists behind the shaft. This is an eccentricity, but if the player in question believes that
he can putt better in this way than in any other, he is quite justified in adopting it, and
I would be the last to tell him that he is wrong. The fact is that there is more individuality
in putting than in any other department of golf, and it is absolutely imperative that this
individuality should be allowed to have its way. I believe seriously that every man has had
a particular kind of putting method awarded to him by Nature, and when he putts exactly in
this way he will do well, and when he departs from his natural system he will miss the long
ones and the short ones too. First of all, he has to find out this particular method which
Nature has assigned for his use. There ought not to be much difficulty about this, for it will
come unconsciously to his aid when he is not thinking of anybody's advice or of anything that
he has ever read in any book on golf. That day the hole will seem as big as the mouth of a
coal mine, and putting the easiest thing in the world. When he stands to his ball and makes
his little swing, he feels as easy and comfortable and confident as any man can ever do. Yet
it is probable that, so far as he knows, he is not doing anything special. It may happen that
the very next day, when he thinks he is standing and holding his club and hitting the ball
in exactly the same way, he nevertheless feels distinctly uncomfortable and full of nervous
hesitation as he makes his stroke, and then the long putts are all either too short, or too
long, or wide, and the little ones are missed.

I don't think that the liver or a passing variation in temperament is altogether the cause
of this. I believe it is because the man has departed even by a trifle from his own natural
stance. A change of the position of the feet by even a couple of inches one way or the other
may alter the stance altogether, and knock the player clean off his putting. In this new position
he will wriggle about and feel uncomfortable. Everything is wrong. His coat is in the way,
his pockets seem too full of old balls, the feel of his stockings on his legs irritates him,
and he is conscious that there is a nail coming up on the inside of the sole of his boot. It
is all because he is just that inch or two removed from the stance which Nature allotted to
him for putting purposes, but he does not know that, and consequently everything in the world
except the true cause is blamed for the extraordinary things he does. A fair sample of many
others was the clergyman who, having missed a short putt when playing in a match over a Glasgow
links, espied in the distance on an eminence fully a quarter of a mile away from the green,
an innocent tourist, who was apparently doing nothing more injurious to golf than serenely
admiring the view. But the clerical golfer, being a man of quick temper, poured forth a torrent
of abuse, exclaiming, "How could I hole the ball with that blockhead over there working his
umbrella as if it were the pendulum of an eight-day clock!" When this is the kind of thing
that is happening, I advise the golfer to try variations in his stance for putting, effecting
the least possible amount of change at a time. There is a chance that at last he will drop
into his natural stance, or something very near it, and even if he does not there is some likelihood
that he will gain a trifle in confidence by the change, and that will count for much. And anyhow
there is ample justification for any amount of manoeuvring of the body and the feet when one
is off one's putting, for at the best, to make use of something like an Irishism, the state
of things is then hopelessly bad, and every future tendency must be in the way of improvement.
There is one other suggestion to make to those golfers who believe what I say about the natural
stance, and by this time it will have become more or less obvious to them. It is that when
they are fairly on their putting, and are apparently doing all that Nature intended them to
do, and are feeling contented in body and mind accordingly, they should take a sly but very
careful look at their feet and body and everything else just after they have made a successful
long putt, having felt certain all the time that they would make it. This examination ought
not to be premeditated, because that would probably spoil the whole thing; and it usually happens
that when one of these long ones has been successfully negotiated, the golfer is too much carried
away by his emotions of delight to bring himself immediately to a sober and acute analysis
of how it was done. But sometime he may remember to look into the matter, and then he should
note the position of everything down to the smallest detail and the fraction of an inch, and
make a most careful note of them for future reference. It will be invaluable. So, as I hold
that putting is a matter of Nature and instinct, I make an exception this time to my rule in
the matter of illustrations, and offer to my readers no diagram with stance measurements. From
the two photographs of myself putting in what I had every reason to believe at the time was
my own perfectly natural stance, they may take any hints that they may discover.

In the matter of putters, of which there is an infinite variety and a new one invented almost
every month, I believe in a man playing with just that kind that he has most confidence in
and which he fancies suits him best. Whether it is a plain gun-metal instrument, a crooked-necked
affair, a putting cleek, an ordinary aluminium, a wooden putter, or the latest American invention,
it is all the same; and if it suits the man who uses it, then it is the best putter in the
world for him, and the one with which he will hole out most frequently. In no other sense is
there such a thing as a best putter. The only semblance of a suggestion that I will presume
to offer in this connection is, that for very long putts there is something to be said in favour
of the wooden and aluminium putters, which seem to require less exertion than others, and to
enable the player to regulate the strength of the stroke more exactly. For the shorter ones,
I like the putting cleek best. But even these are matters of fancy, and what a great deal even
the vaguest, most unreasoning belief in a putter has to do with the success with which it is
manipulated I have as good a reason as anyone to understand, since I owe my first Championship
largely to the help of a putter which I had never used before, and which was really not a putter
at all, but, as I have explained elsewhere, simply a little cleek which I picked up accidentally
in a professional's shop on the eve of the struggle, and in which I had a new shaft fixed to
my own liking. On that occasion I putted with this instrument as the winner of a championship
ought to putt, but I have never been able to do any good with it since, and in these days it
is resting idly in my shop, useless but quite unpurchasable for any money. I do believe that
it is a good thing to be the possessor of two putters, with both of which you have at one time
or another done well, and in which you have unlimited confidence. Don't carry them both in
the bag at the same time, but keep one safe in the locker, and when the day comes, as it surely
will, when you are off your putting, take it out on to the links for the next round and see
what you can do with it. Your weakness on the green may no more have been the fault of the
other putter than the tourist was the cause of the clergyman missing the little one at Glasgow,
but very much will be gained if you can persuade yourself that it was.

It is to a certain extent possible to be definite in remarking upon the grip. Some good golfers
clasp their putters tightly with both hands; others keep the left hand loose and the right
hand firm; and a third selection do the reverse, each method being justified on its day. But
in this part of the game it is quite clear that the right hand has more work to do than the
left. It is the right hand that makes the stroke, and therefore I consider that it should be
allowed plenty of play, and that the left wrist should be held more loosely than the right.
For my part I use the same overlapping grip in putting as in all the other strokes, making
just this one small variation, that instead of allowing the right thumb to fall over the shaft,
as when driving or playing through the green, I place it on the top of the shaft and pointing
down it. This seems to me to make for accuracy.

In playing what we may call an ordinary putt, that is to say, one presenting no difficulties
in the way of stymies, slopes of the green, or anything of that kind, I think it pays best
in the long run to make a point of always hitting the ball with the middle of the face of the
club, although, I believe, Willie Park, one of the greatest of putters, always hits the ball
off the toe of the club and comes in to the hole from the right-hand side of it. Other players
consistently and by design half top the ball when they are putting. There should be no sharp
hit and no jerk in the swing, which should have the even gentle motion of a pendulum. In the
backward swing, the length of which, as in all other strokes in golf, is regulated by the distance
it is desired to make the ball travel, the head of the putter should be kept exactly in the
line of the putt. Accuracy will be impossible if it is brought round at all. There should be
a short follow-through after impact, varying, of course, according to the length of the putt.
In the case of a long one, the club will go through much further, and then the arms would naturally
be more extended. In the follow-through the putter should be kept well down, the bottom edge
scraping the top of the grass for some inches. It is easy to understand how much more this
course of procedure will tend towards the accuracy and delicacy of the stroke than the reverse
method, in which the blade of the putter would be cocked up as soon as the ball had left it.

Before I close my remarks on the simple putt, I feel that it is a duty to repeat once more
those wise maxims relating to putting that have been uttered some tens of thousands of times
already. "Never up, never in." There is nothing so true, and the number of matches and medals
that have been lost through the reckless and foolish disregard of this rule must be enormous.
The hole will never come to you; therefore make up your mind that you will always go to the
hole, and let it be an invariable practice to play for the back of the tin so that you will
always have just a little in hand. The most deadly accuracy and the nicest calculations are
all wasted if the ball is just half a turn short of the opening, and there is nothing in the
whole of the play between one tee and the next more exasperating than the long putt which hesitates
and stops on the very lip of the hole. There is another very good reason for always playing
very well up to the hole, which may not have occurred to all golfers who read these lines.
Suppose that in the exercise of this rule about always being up at any cost, too much has been
put into the ball, and, refusing to die when it ought to do, it skips over the hole and comes
to a standstill several inches beyond. "That's the result of being up!" exclaims the irritated
golfer. But he feels at any rate that he has given the hole the chance for which it asked,
and has a far greater sense of satisfaction and of duty done than if the ball had stopped a
foot or more short of the place that was made for it. This may be the reason why an eighteen-inch
or two-feet putt back to the hole from the far side always seems easier and is less frequently
missed than a putt of the same distance from the original side, which is merely making up for
the shortage in the first putt. Whether that is the reason or not, there is the fact, and though
they may not have considered the matter hitherto, I feel confident that on reflection, or when
they take note of future experiences, most of my readers will admit that this is so. It is
a final argument for playing to the back of the hole and never being short. One of the greatest
worries of the glorious life of old Tom Morris was that for a long time when in the middle
of his career he was nearly always short with his long putts, and his son, young Tom, used
wickedly to say that his father would be a great putter if the hole were always a yard nearer.
Tom, I believe, was always conscious of his failing, and made the most strenuous efforts to
correct it, and this only shows what a terrible and incurable habit this one of being short
can become, and what necessity there is for the golfer to exercise his strength of mind to
get rid of it in his early days, and establish the practice of being up every time. Often enough
he will run over, but sometimes the kind hole will gobble the ball, and on the average he will
gain substantially over the nervous, hesitating player who is always short.

Now we will consider those putts in which it is not all plain sailing from the place where
the ball lies to the hole. The line of the putt may be uphill or it may be downhill, or the
green may slope all the way from one side to the other, or first from one and then the other.
There is no end to the tricks and difficulties of a good sporting green, and the more of them
the merrier. The golfer's powers of calculation are now in great demand.

Take, to begin with, one of the most difficult of all putts--that in which there is a more
or less pronounced slope from one side or the other, or a mixture of the two. In this case
it would obviously be fatal to putt straight at the hole. Allowances must be made on one side
or the other, and sometimes they are very great allowances too. I have found that most beginners
err in being afraid of allowing sufficiently for the slope. They may convince themselves that
in order to get near the hole their ball should be a yard or so off the straight line when
it is half-way along its course, and yet, at the last instant, when they make the stroke their
nerve and resolution seem to fail them, and they point the ball but a few inches up the slope,
with the result that before it reaches the hole it goes running away on the other side and
comes to a standstill anything but dead. Putting practice on undulating greens is very valuable,
not so much because it teaches the golfer exactly what allowance he should make in various
cases, but because it helps by experience to give him the courage of his convictions. It is
impossible to give any directions as to the precise allowance that should be made, for the
simple reason that this varies in every case. The length of the putt, the degree of slope,
and the speed of the green, are all controlling factors. The amount of borrow, as we term it,
that must be taken from the side of any particular slope is entirely a matter of mathematical
calculation, and the problem will be solved to satisfaction most frequently by the man who
trains himself to make an accurate and speedy analysis of the controlling factors in the limited
amount of time available for the purpose. The putt is difficult enough when there is a pronounced
slope all the way from one particular side, but the question is much more puzzling when it
is first one and then the other and then perhaps a repetition of one or both. To begin with,
there may be a slope of fifteen degrees from the right, so the ball must go away to the right.
But a couple of yards further on this slope may be transformed into one of thirty degrees the
other way, and after a short piece of level running the original slope, but now at twenty degrees,
is reverted to. What in the name of golf is the line that must be taken in a tantalising case
of this kind? It is plain that the second slope if it lasts as long as the first one more than
neutralises it, being steeper, so that instead of borrowing from the first one we must start
running down it in order to tackle the second one in good time. But the third slope again,
to some extent, though not entirely, neutralises the second, and this entirely upsets the calculation
which only included the first two. It is evident that the first and third hold the advantage
between them, and that in such a case as this we should send the ball on its journey with a
slight borrow from the first incline with which it had to contend. As I have just said, in
these complicated cases it is a question of reckoning pure and simple, and then putting the
ball in a straightforward manner along the line which you have decided is the correct one.

But there are times when a little artifice may be resorted to, particularly in the matter of
applying a little cut to the ball. There is a good deal of billiards in putting, and the cut
stroke on the green is essentially one which the billiard player will delight to practise.
But I warn all those who are not already expert at cutting with the putter, to make themselves
masters of the stroke in private practice before they attempt it in a match, because it is
by no means easy to acquire. The chief difficulty that the golf student will encounter in attempting
it will be to put the cut on as he desires, and at the same time to play the ball with the
proper strength and keep on the proper line. It is easy enough to cut the ball, but it is most
difficult, at first at all events, to cut it and putt it properly at the same time. For the
application of cut, turn the toe of the putter slightly outwards and away from the hole, and
see that the face of the club is kept to this angle all the way through the stroke. Swing just
a trifle away from the straight line outwards, and the moment you come back on to the ball
draw the club sharply across it. It is evident that this movement, when properly executed,
will give to the ball a rotary motion, which on a perfectly level green would tend to make
it run slightly off to the right of the straight line along which it was aimed. Here, then,
the golfer may arm himself with an accomplishment which may frequently prove of valuable service.
He may dodge a stymie or circumvent an inconvenient piece of the green over which, without
the cut, the ball would have to travel. But most frequently will the accomplished putter find
the cut of use to him when there is a pronounced slope of the green from the right-hand side
of the line of the putt. In applying cut to the ball in a case of this kind, we are complicating
the problem by the introduction of a fourth factor to the other three I have named, but at
the same time we are diminishing the weight of these others, since we shall enable ourselves
to putt more directly at the hole. Suppose it is a steep but even slope all the way from the
ball to the hole. Now, if we are going to putt this ball in the ordinary manner without any
spin on it, we must borrow a lot from the hill, and, as we shall at once convince ourselves,
the ball must be at its highest point when it is just half-way to the hole. But we may borrow
from the slope in another way than by running straight up it and straight down again. If we
put cut on the ball, it will of itself be fighting against the hill the whole way, and though
if the angle is at all pronounced it may not be able to contend against it without any extra
borrow, much less will be required than in the case of the simple putt up the hill and down
again. Now it must be borne in mind that it is a purely artificial force, as it were, that
keeps the ball from running down the slope, and as soon as the run on the ball is being exhausted
and the spin at the same time, the tendency will be not for the ball to run gradually down
the slope--as it did in the case of the simple putt without cut--but to surrender to it completely
and run almost straight down. Our plan of campaign is now indicated. Instead of going a long
way up the hill out of our straight line, and having but a very vague idea of what is going
to be the end of it all, we will neutralise the effect of the slope as far as possible by using
the cut and aim to a point much lower down the hill--how much lower can only be determined
with knowledge of the particular circumstances, and after the golfer has thoroughly practised
the stroke and knows what he can do with it. And instead of settling upon a point half-way
along the line of the putt as the highest that the ball shall reach, this summit of the ascent
will now be very much nearer to the hole, quite close to it in fact. We putt up to this point
with all the spin we can get on the ball, and when it reaches it the forward motion and the
rotation die away at the same time, and the ball drops away down the hill, and, as we hope,
into the hole that is waiting for it close by. Now, after all this explanation, it may really
seem that by using the cut in a case of this kind we are going about the job in the most difficult
manner, but when once the golfer has made himself master of this cut stroke, and has practised
this manner of attacking slopes, he will speedily convince himself that it is the easier and
more reliable method--certainly more reliable. It seems to be a great advantage to be able
to keep closer to the straight line, and the strength can be more accurately gauged. The diagram
which I have drawn on this page shows relatively the courses taken by balls played in the two
different styles, and will help to explain my meaning. The slope is supposed to be coming from
the top of the page, as it were, and the plain curved line is the course taken by the ball
which has had no cut given to it, while that which is dotted is the line of the cut ball. I
am giving them both credit for having been played with the utmost precision, so that they would
find their way to the tin. I submit all these remarks as an idea, to be followed up and elaborated
in much practice, rather than as a definite piece of instruction, for the variety of circumstances
is so bewildering that a fixed rule is impossible.

One of the putting problems which strike most fear into the heart of the golfer is when his
line from the ball to the hole runs straight down a steep slope, and there is some considerable
distance for the ball to travel along a fast green. The difficulty in such a case is to preserve
any control over the ball after it has left the club, and to make it stop anywhere near the
hole if the green is really so fast and steep as almost to impart motion of itself. In a case
of this sort I think it generally pays best to hit the ball very nearly upon the toe of the
putter, at the same time making a short quick twitch or draw of the club across the ball towards
the feet. Little forward motion will be imparted in this manner, but there will be a tendency
to half lift the ball from the green at the beginning of its journey, and it will continue
its way to the hole with a lot of drag upon it. It is obvious that this stroke, to be played
properly, will need much practice in the first place and judgment afterwards, and I can do
little more than state the principle upon which it should be made. But oftentimes, when the
slope of the green is really considerable, and one experiences a sense of great risk and danger
in using the putter at all, I strongly advise the use of the iron or mashie; indeed, I think
most golfers chain themselves down too much to the idea that the putter, being the proper thing
to putt with, no other club should be used on the green. There is no law to enforce the use
of the putter, but even when the idea sometimes occurs to a player that it would be best to
use his mashie on the green in particular circumstances, he usually rejects it as improper.
On a steep incline it pays very well to use a mashie, for length in these circumstances can
often be judged very accurately, and, the ball having been given its little pitch to begin
with, does not then begin to roll along nearly so quickly as if the putter had been acting
upon it. There are times, even when the hole is only a yard away, when it might pay best to
ask for the mashie instead of the instrument which the caddie will offer.

Upon the very difficult and annoying question of stymies there are few hints that I can offer
which will not suggest themselves to the player of a very little experience. The fact which
must be driven home is that some stymies are negotiable and others are not--not by any player
or by any method. When the ball that stymies you dead is lying on the lip of the hole and half
covering it, and your own is some distance away, the case is, to all intents and purposes,
hopeless, but if you have only got this one stroke left for the half, you feel that an effort
of some kind must be made, however hopeless it may be. The one chance--and even that is not
always given--is to pass the other ball so very closely that yours will touch the rim of the
hole and then, perhaps, if it is travelling slowly enough, be influenced sufficiently to tumble
in. Luck must necessarily have a lot to do with the success of a stroke of this kind, and the
one consolation is that, if it fails, or if you knock the other ball in--which is quite likely--things
will be no worse than they appeared before you took the stroke. If, in the case of a dead and
hopeless stymie of this kind, you had two strokes for the half and one for the hole, I should
strongly advise you to give up all thoughts of holing out, and make quite certain of being
dead the first time and getting the half. Many golfers are so carried away by their desire
to snatch the hole from a desperate position of this sort, that they throw all prudence to
the winds, attempt the impossible, and probably lose the hole at the finish instead of halving
it. They may leave themselves another stymie, they may knock the other ball in, or they may
be anything but dead after their first stroke,--indeed, it is when defying their fate in this
manner that everything is likely to happen for the worst.

The common method of playing a stymie is by pitching your ball over that of your opponent,
but this is not always possible. All depends on how near the other ball is to the hole, and
how far the balls are apart. If the ball that stymies you is on the lip and your own is three
yards away, it is obvious that you cannot pitch over it. From such a distance your own ball
could not be made to clear the other one and drop again in time to fall into the tin. But,
when an examination of the situation makes it clear that there is really space enough to pitch
over and get into the hole, take the most lofted club in your bag--either a highly lofted mashie
or even a niblick--and when making the little pitch shot that is demanded, apply cut to the
ball in the way I have already directed, and aim to the left-hand side of the tin. The stroke
should be very short and quick, the blade of the club not passing through a space of more than
nine inches or a foot. The cut will make the ball lift quickly, and, with the spin upon it,
it is evident that the left-hand side of the hole is the proper one to play to. Everything
depends upon the measurements of the situation as to whether you ought to pitch right into
the hole or to pitch short and run in, but in any case you should pitch close up, and in a
general way four or five inches would be a fair distance to ask the ball to run. When your
own ball is many yards away from the hole, and the one that makes the stymie is also far from
it as well as far from yours, a pitch shot seems very often to be either inadequate or impossible.
Usually it will be better to aim at going very near to the stymie with the object of getting
up dead, making quite certain at the same time that you do not bungle the whole thing by hitting
the other ball, or else to play to the left with much cut, so that with a little luck you may
circle into the hole. Evidently the latter would be a somewhat hazardous stroke to make.

There is one other way of attacking a stymie, and that is by the application of the run-through
method, when the ball in front of you is on the edge of the hole and your own is very close
to it--only just outside the six inches limit that makes the stymie. If the balls are much
more than a foot apart, the "follow-through method" of playing stymies is almost certain to
fail. This system is nothing more than the follow-through shot at billiards, and the principles
upon which the strokes in the two games are made are much the same. Hit your own ball very
high up,--that is to say, put all the top and run on it that you can, and strike the other
ball fairly in the centre and fairly hard. The object is to knock the stymie right away over
the hole, and to follow through with your own and drop in. If you don't hit hard enough you
will only succeed in holing your opponent's ball and earning his sarcastic thanks. And if you
don't get top enough on your own ball you will not follow through, however hard you bang up
against the other. This is a very useful stroke to practise, for the particular kind of stymie
to which it applies occurs very frequently, and is one of the most exasperating of all.

Most of these fancy putting strokes stand a very poor chance of success on a very slow green.
Cut and top and all these other niceties will not work on a dull one. It is the sharp, fiery
green that comes to the rescue of the resourceful golfer in circumstances such as we have been
discussing. It seems to me that golfers in considering their putts very often take too little
pains to come to an accurate determination of the speed of the greens. There are a score of
changing circumstances which affect that speed, but it frequently happens that only a casual
glance is given to the state of the turf, and the rest of the time is spent in considering
the distance and the inclines that have to be contended against. The golfer should accustom
himself to making a minute survey of the condition of things. Thus, to how many players does
it occur that the direction in which the mowing machine has been passed over it makes an enormous
difference to the speed of the particular piece of the green that has to be putted over? All
the blades of grass are bent down in the direction that the machine has taken, and their points
all face that way. Therefore the ball that is being putted in the opposite direction encounters
all the resistance of these points, and in the aggregate this resistance is very considerable.
On the other hand, the ball that has to be putted in the same direction that the machine went
has an unusually smooth and slippery surface to glide over. It is very easy to see which way
the machine has gone. On a newly-cut green there are stripes of different shades of green.
The points of the grass give the deeper tints, and therefore the machine has been coming towards
you on the dark stripes, and along them you must putt harder than on the others.

The variety of the circumstances to be taken into consideration render putting on undulating
greens very attractive to the man who makes a proper and careful study of this part of the
game, as every player ought to do. In most cases they are such as I have not had an opportunity
of making in any other chapter; but in a few others they are repetitions of former injunctions,
for the sake of further emphasis:--

      *      *      *      *      *

Don't play too much golf if you want to get on in the game. Three rounds a day are too much
for any man, and if he makes a practice of playing them whenever he has the opportunity, his
game is sure to suffer. He often says that his third round is the best of the day. But what
about the first next morning? Two rounds a day are enough, and these two rounds on three days
of the week are as much golf as is good for any player who does not want to become careless
and stale.

      *      *      *      *      *

Remember that the player who first settles down to the serious business of a hard match has
the advantage. In a majority of cases concentrated purpose is the secret of victory.

      *      *      *      *      *

You must be thoughtful if you want to get on in golf. Most players when they make an exceptionally
good stroke gaze delightedly at the result, and then begin to talk about it to their opponent
and the caddie. They rarely give a thought as to exactly how they did it, though it must be
obvious that for that good result to have been obtained the stroke must have been played in
a particularly correct and able manner. Unless by pure accident, no good ever comes of a bad
stroke. When you have made a really wonderfully good shot--for you--bring yourself up sharply
to find out exactly how you did it. Notice your stance, your grip, and try to remember the
exact character of the swing that you made and precisely how you followed through. Then you
will be able to do the same thing next time with great confidence. Usually when a player makes
a really bad stroke you see him trying the swing over again--without the ball--wondering what
went wrong. It would pay him much better to do the good strokes over again in the same way
every time he makes them, so as to impress the method of execution firmly upon his mind.

      *      *      *      *      *

Don't praise your own good shots. Leave that function to your partner, who, if a good sort,
will not be slow in performing it. His praise will be more discriminating and worth more than
yours. And don't say spiteful and unkind things about his good shots, or be continually talking
about his luck. If you do he will hate you before the game is over.

      *      *      *      *      *

When a hole is being keenly contested, and you look as though you are having the worst of it,
try not to appear pleased when your opponent makes a bad stroke or gets into serious trouble,
however relieved or even delighted you may feel. It is human nature to feel the better for
your opponent's mistake in a crisis of this kind, but it is not good manners to show that you
feel it. And, however well you may know your friend, it is not half so funny as you think it
is to laugh at such a time or shout out that you rejoice. It is simply bad taste, for your
opponent at that time is suffering from a sense of keen disappointment, and is temporarily
quite unable to appreciate jokes of this kind. He is inclined to think he has been mistaken
in you all along, and that you are much less of a gentleman and a sportsman than he had imagined.

      *      *      *      *      *

If he is playing several more in a vain endeavour to extricate himself from a bunker, do not
stand near him and audibly count his strokes. It would be justifiable homicide if he wound
up his pitiable exhibition by applying his niblick to your head. It is better to pretend that
you do not notice these things. On the other hand, do not go out of your way to say that you
are sorry when these misfortunes happen. Such expressions imply a kind of patronage for which
your opponent will not thank you, and he knows all the time that you do not really mean it,
and therefore infers that you are a hypocrite. The best golf is that which is played in comparative
silence.

      *      *      *      *      *

At the beginning of a match do not worry yourself with the idea that the result is likely to
be against you. By reflecting thus upon the possibilities of defeat one often becomes too anxious
and loses one's freedom of style.

      *      *      *      *      *

Take more risks when you are down to your opponent than when you are up on him. If you play
a difficult shot successfully, the circumstance will probably have some effect upon the other man.

      *      *      *      *      *

It is a mistake continually to exercise extreme caution. One's play is severely cramped by
an excess of care.

      *      *      *      *      *

Try, whenever possible, to make matches with opponents who are at least as good, if not better
than yourself. This will do your game more good than playing with an inferior player against
whom you will always be liable to play in a careless manner.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always make an effort to improve your game, and do not content yourself with the idea that
you go out on the links for the exercise only. It is no more difficult or less pleasant trying
to play better than it is to go on continually in the same old way.

      *      *      *      *      *

When making a match, do not try to get a greater allowance of strokes than that to which you
are entitled on your handicap, alleging to your opponent that the said handicap is an unfair
one. Your opponent may think you are a little too "keen"; and if he grants your improper request,
and you should then win the match, he may think some other things besides.

      *      *      *      *      *

Remember that more matches are lost through carelessness at the beginning than through any
other cause. Always make a point of trying to play the first hole as well as you have ever
played a hole in your life. The favourite saying of some players, "I never try to win the first
hole," is the most foolish thing ever said in connection with the game of golf. Win as many
holes as you can in the early part of the game. They may be useful for you to fall back upon
later on.

      *      *      *      *      *

Try to avoid an unnecessary expenditure of nerve force by treating your adversary--with all
due respect to him--as a nonentity. Whatever brilliant achievements he may accomplish, go on
quietly playing your own game. There is always the probability that sooner or later he will
make enough mistakes to bring him back to you. It is the steadier player who plays his own
game from the first tee to the last green, and who never allows himself to be upset by anything
that happens, who wins the match.

      *      *      *      *      *

Never hurry when playing a match or a medal round, or indeed any kind of golf. Haste will affect
your nerves and spoil your play. The record for playing a round in the shortest possible space
of time is not worth the holding. Take time enough, but don't be unnecessarily slow.

      *      *      *      *      *

If from any cause whatever you are playing a very slow game, don't miss an opportunity of inviting
the couple behind you to pass. It will please them, and will be far more comfortable for you.
But if your match is behind a slow one, do not be offensive in pressing upon the match in front
by making rude remarks and occasionally playing when they are within range. You do not know
what troubles they are enduring. Remember the story of the old player, who, on a ball being
driven past him by the couple behind, sent his caddie with his card to the offender, and with
it the message, "Mr. Blank presents his compliments, and begs to say that though he may be
playing slowly he can play a devil of a lot more slowly if he likes!"

      *      *      *      *      *

Be careful that you always stand on the proper side of the tee when your opponent is preparing
to drive. At this most anxious moment for your friend do not be practising your own swing or
move about or talk. You would be intensely annoyed with him if he did these things when you
were driving. If he lost the match through a foozled drive, he would be justified in saying
that you did not play the game.

      *      *      *      *      *

In playing through the green, avoid as far as possible getting in your opponent's line of sight
when he is making his stroke. Also do not stand so near to him that he can see you through
the corner of his eye when he is taking his swing.

      *      *      *      *      *

Do not get into the habit of asking for a half on the putting green when in your own opinion
you are lying dead and have one stroke left for the half. You may not be as dead as you think,
and your opponent may not consider you are dead at all. He naturally wonders why you ask for
the half when it would be so easy to putt the ball. It would be excusable if he were to offer
to make you a present of the ball you have on the match. These propositions about the giving
of halves should invariably come from the other side. Besides, when you have asked for a half
and your opponent says "No; putt it out," you not only look foolish, but you are so irritated
that you may very likely miss the putt. Then you will look more foolish than ever, and the
next thing you will lose is the match.

      *      *      *      *      *

But when your opponent of his own free will says, "I will give you that," meaning the little
putt for the half, show your appreciation of his confidence in your putting by picking up the
ball and saying no more about it. Don't insist on putting the ball into the hole either with
one hand or in any other way. You are sure to be playing carelessly; and suppose you fail to
hole? Your opponent said he gave you the half, and yet you failed afterwards to get it when
you insisted on playing. Of course you have a right to the half that he gave you, but you will
have an uneasy conscience, and your friend will be sorry that he was so generous. Also, when
you have carelessly missed a six inch putt for the half, do not remark to your opponent, as
some players do, "Of course, if you insist upon it, I will give you the hole." It is no question
of insistence; it is the rule of the game. I say, stick to the rules of the game.

      *      *      *      *      *

Never use long headed clubs. The shorter headed clubs are easier to play with and are more
accurate.

      *      *      *      *      *

Do not wear too tightly fitting clothes. Particularly be careful to see that there is plenty
of spare cloth under the arms. Tightness here, where there should be the utmost freedom, means
the wholesale ruination of what would otherwise have been good strokes.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always use braces in preference to a belt round the waist. I never play with a belt. Braces
seem to hold the shoulders together just as they ought to be. When a man plays in a belt he
has an unaccustomed sense of looseness, and his shoulders are too much beyond control. It is
a mistake to imagine you can swing better with a belt than with braces. For the same reason
I do not advise a golfer to play without his coat, even on the warmest day, if he wants to
play his best game.

      *      *      *      *      *

Whenever possible, use shoes for golfing instead of boots. They allow more freedom to the ankles,
and make it much easier to pivot on the toes. Keep the leather of your boots and shoes soft
and pliable. Apply dubbin to them in the winter.

      *      *      *      *      *

Take care that there are plenty of nails on the soles of your boots and shoes, and that they
are in good condition and the heads not worn away. Nails in this state are almost useless,
and create a great tendency towards slipping. Aluminium nails, though very light, wear away
too quickly, and have a tendency to drop out. I do not like big nails of any description, nor
do I favour small ones arranged in clusters. Those that I prefer have round heads about the
size of a small pea, and are fluted down the sides. I have the soles and heels of my boots
freely studded with these, and always according to the same system. There are twenty-five nails
on the sole of each boot and fourteen on each heel, and they are arranged as in the accompanying
diagram. It will be observed that there are plenty of nails in the fore part of the sole on
which the pivoting is done, and where there is the greatest tendency to slip.

      *      *      *      *      *

Do not get into the habit of counting your strokes from the beginning of the round in every
match that you play, in the hope that each time you may be able to beat your own record for
the course. If you do so, and play one or two bad holes to begin with, you will suffer from
a sense of disappointment which may have a bad effect upon your play for the remainder of the game.

      *      *      *      *      *

Obtain a thorough knowledge of the rules of the game, always play strictly according to them,
and adhere rigidly to the etiquette of golf. When you insist upon the rules being applied to
yourself, even to your own disadvantage, you are in a stronger position for demanding that
your opponent shall also have the same respect for them. When play is always according to the
rules, with no favour shown on either side, the players know exactly where they are. When the
rules are occasionally overthrown, difficulties and dissatisfaction constantly ensue.

      *      *      *      *      *

When playing in frosty weather, do not take it for granted that because the greens are hard
they are also fast. Unless the greens were exceedingly smooth when the frost began, they will
be covered with an abundance of little frozen knobs and pimples which greatly retard the progress
of the ball.

      *      *      *      *      *

In wet weather it is a good thing to carry a piece of chalk in your pocket, and to rub the
face of the driver and brassy with it each time before making a stroke. It prevents the ball
from skidding.

      *      *      *      *      *

Unless you have a very good and special reason for doing so, do not play in gloves. The grip
is seldom so secure and exact as when it is effected with the bare hands.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always use the club that takes the least out of you. Play with an iron instead of forcing your
shot with a mashie. Never say, "Oh, I think I can reach it with such and such a club." There
ought never to be any question of your reaching it, so use the next more powerful club in order
that you will have a little in hand. It will be easier, and the result will be much better,
or at least it ought to be.

      *      *      *      *      *

Never use thick handle grips. They place weight at the wrong end of the club. I like the thinnest
I can get. I do not advise playing with rubber grips if they can be avoided. On a wet day they
might be the cause of a lost match.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always use spliced in preference to socketed clubs. They are better in every way.

      *      *      *      *      *

Do not be tempted to invest in a sample of each new golfing invention as soon as it makes its
appearance. If you do you will only complicate and spoil your game and encumber your locker
with much useless rubbish. Of course some new inventions are good, but it is usually best to
wait a little while to see whether any considerable section of the golfing public approves
of them before rushing to a shop to order one.

      *      *      *      *      *

If you have completely lost confidence for the time being in any particular club, even though
it may be one with which you have performed brilliantly in days gone by, leave it out of your
bag altogether for a short season and try to forget all about it. The day will come before
very long when you will feel that it is once more the very club you are wanting to make your
game perfect, and you will rejoice to renew its acquaintance when you take it out of your locker.
We can see too much of even our best friends.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always make up your mind definitely and finally before taking up your stance what club you
are going to use and exactly the kind of shot that you want to play with it. When you have
taken up your position but still ponder in a state of uncertainty, it is very probable that
your mind will be affected by your hesitation, and then your swing and the result thereof will
be bad.

      *      *      *      *      *

There are fewer certainties in golf than in any other game, and dogged pluck is rarely so well
rewarded as on the links.

      *      *      *      *      *

If you are playing golf in the afternoon, do not lunch any more heavily that you feel to be
necessary. A heavy lunch tends to take the keenness out of a golfer, and at the same time it
has--what very few people suspect--a very serious effect upon the eye and its capacity for
work. The golfer's eyes often give way to the strain that is put upon them long before his limbs.

      *      *      *      *      *

When we talk about keeping the eye on the ball, we do not mean the top of the ball. Your object
is not to hit the top of the ball with the bottom of your club. For an ordinary stroke keep
your attention fixed on the grass immediately behind the ball. This should result in the sole
of your club sweeping evenly along the turf and taking the ball just as it ought to be taken.
But there are special occasions, as when a low shot against the wind is wanted (fully explained
in previous chapters), when it is desirable to hit the ball rather higher up. The eye should
then be fixed on the edge of the ball just half-way up from the bottom to the top. The accompanying
diagram shows exactly the points to be looked at when playing the different strokes. You may
get in good strokes when looking at the top of the ball, but it is only because you have accustomed
yourself by long experience to make a small allowance for so doing. The practice is theoretically
bad, and it is mainly the reason why beginners top their balls so frequently. Of course when
you look down the side of it in the manner indicated, you have the ball always in view.

      *      *      *      *      *

The life of a rubber-cored ball does not always last as long as its shell, and its best driving
capacity has often disappeared when there is scarcely a scratch upon it. Therefore, if you
are playing in an important match with a ball that has already been used at a large number
of holes, it may be advisable to put down a new one when long work with the driver and brassy
is a vital necessity. A close watch for loss of shape should also be kept on these rubber-cored
balls. They vary very much in this respect, and not only is it impossible to putt well with
a ball that is not perfectly round, but it never flies so well as one which is quite true.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always use a clean ball, and carry a sponge to keep it clean with. It detracts from the pleasure
of a game more than you may imagine if your ball is always dirty and cannot be seen from a
distance. Besides, the eye is less strained when a clean white ball is played with, and there
is less likelihood of foozled strokes. Moreover, your dirty ball is a constant irritation to
your opponent.

      *      *      *      *      *

Don't act upon the advice of your caddie when you are convinced in your own mind that he is
wrong. If you do so, you will very likely play the stroke hesitatingly and without confidence,
and the result in these circumstances is seldom satisfactory. It is not impossible that the
caddie knows less about the game than yourself, and, on the other hand, his views as to the
best thing to do in a particular situation are often regulated by what he has seen the scratch
men do at such times. You may not be a scratch man.

      *      *      *      *      *

When playing in a foursome, never forget that you have a partner. If you are the inferior player,
make a rule, when in any doubt, of asking him what he would prefer you to do.

      *      *      *      *      *

When you are addressing the ball, and a conviction forces itself on your mind just before making
the stroke that your stance or something else is radically wrong, do not be persuaded that
it is best to get the stroke done with notwithstanding. In such circumstances it is almost
certain to be a failure, and you will wish then that you had taken a fresh stance, as you knew
you ought to have done, and made a proper job of it, even at the risk of annoying your partner
by fiddling about on the tee.

      *      *      *      *      *

At a crisis in a match, some golfers, fighting desperately for victory or a half, give themselves
up when on the tee to hideous thoughts of all the worst ways in which they have ever made that
particular drive and of the terrible consequences that ensued. This is fatal. A golfer must
never be morbid. If he cannot school himself to think that he is going to make the best drive
of his life, just when it is most wanted, he should try not to think of anything at all.

      *      *      *      *      *

Don't try experimental shots on a new system when your opponent is dormy. It may be quite true
that those you make on the old system are very bad, but you had better stick to them until
the end of this match at any rate.

      *      *      *      *      *

Do not attempt to play two kinds of golf at the same time; that is to say, if you are playing
for a medal, do not keep up a hole-to-hole match with your partner. You will become confused,
with no clear idea of what you are trying to do, and you will probably win neither the medal
nor the match. If you feel that you must match yourself in some manner with the man who is
going round with you, back your net return against his.

      *      *      *      *      *

Because you do a hole in bogey, or even sometimes in one stroke less, do not always take it
for granted that you have therefore played perfect golf. Some bogeys are very easy, and some
shots are very fluky. A man may miss his drive, run a bunker, and hole out with his mashie,
beating bogey by a stroke. But he would be well advised not to say anything about it afterwards,
lest he should be asked for details. Not the smallest credit attaches to him for this remarkable
performance.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always play from a low tee, except when the wind is behind you.

      *      *      *      *      *

See that your head remains rigid, from the moment when you have finally taken up your position
and are ready for your swing, until you have struck the ball.

      *      *      *      *      *

In addressing, always oppose to the ball that part of the face of the club with which you want
to hit it.

      *      *      *      *      *

Go slowly back, but be quick on the ball. But do not swing back too slowly or you will lose
control over your club. Gain speed gradually.

      *      *      *      *      *

At the finish of the swing for a full shot, the right heel should be well up and the toe pointed
downwards. The chest should then be facing the hole. But these and all similar movements should
be quite natural. If they are forced they are useless and dangerous, and only indicate that
your methods and your swing are altogether wrong. In such a dilemma study the photographs in
this volume, particularly those that show you how you ought not to do the various strokes.
If these do not provide you with a cure, consult the professional at your club.

      *      *      *      *      *

Don't press, but note the definition of pressing in Chapter VI. You can hit hard without pressing,
which really means jumping at the ball. When your swing is working to perfection and you are
full of confidence, you may let yourself go as much as you please. It is not true, as some
golfers say, that a gently hit ball will travel as far as one which has been hit with much
more force, but otherwise in precisely the same manner.

      *      *      *      *      *

You must be particularly on your guard against pressing--real pressing--when you are two or
three holes down, and are becoming anxious about the match. Perfect confidence and a calm mind
are necessary for the success of every stroke.

      *      *      *      *      *

Keep your eye on the side of the ball, particularly when you are near the hole and perhaps
playing a little chip shot on to the green. There is a tendency at such a time, so great is
the anxiety of the golfer to know whether he is laying himself dead or not, to take the eye
from the ball and direct its attention to the pin before the downward swing is complete and
the stroke has been made. But I do not approve of keeping the eye fixed upon the place where
the ball lay, so that the grass is seen after the ball has departed. Keep your eye on the ball
until you have hit it, but no longer. You cannot follow through properly with a long shot if
your eye remains fastened on the ground. Hit the ball, and then let your eye pick it up in
its flight as quickly as possible. Of course this needs skilful timing and management, but
precision will soon become habitual.

      *      *      *      *      *

When you hit the small of your back with the head of your club in the upward swing, it is not
so much a sign that you are swinging too far back as that your wrists are enjoying too much
play, that you are not holding your club with sufficient firmness, and that your arms are thrown
too much upwards. Try a tighter grip. Remember that the grip with both hands should be firm.
That with the right hand should not be slack, as one is so often told.

      *      *      *      *      *

If your eyesight is not good and you are obliged to resort to artificial aids when playing
the game, wear spectacles rather than eye-glasses, and specially made sporting spectacles in
preference to any others. It is of the utmost importance that the glasses should not only be
perfectly steady at all times, but that the rims should not be so near to the centre of vision
as to interfere with it under any circumstances. The sporting spectacles which I recommend
are similar to those used for billiards and shooting. The rims and the glasses are circular
and not oval in shape, and they are unusually large--about 1-1/2 inches in diameter. By the
use of them the player is afforded a field of vision as wide as with the naked eye, so that
practically he is not conscious that he is wearing glasses at all. The eye is a factor of such
immense importance in the proper playing of golf, that this is a matter to be strongly insisted
upon. My own eyesight is perfect, and I have never had occasion to resort to artificial assistance
of it, but I adopt these suggestions from players of experience who have worn these glasses
and upon whose judgment I can rely.

      *      *      *      *      *

If you have no caddie, do not order your opponent's caddie about as if you were paying for
his services. Any assistance that he may give you is an act of courtesy extended to you by
your opponent.

      *      *      *      *      *

Always fill in afterwards every hole that you make in a bunker. If all players do that, both
you and the others will benefit constantly.

      *      *      *      *      *

Make a point of seeing that your caddie always replaces your divots, or replace them yourself
if you have no caddie. This, as we all know, is a golfer's first duty. If your ball at any
time came to rest in a hole where a divot had not been replaced, you would be extremely annoyed,
would say hard things about the other players on the links, and would declare that the course
was badly kept.

      *      *      *      *      *

Never practise swinging on the putting green. It is not good for the green, and the greenkeeper
who takes a pride in the results of his work is not usually in the best of tempers when he
sees you at this little game.

      *      *      *      *      *

When carrying your own clubs, do not throw the bag down on the greens. If you do so the toes
of the iron clubs are certain to make marks, which neither improve the greens nor the game
of the players who follow you.

      *      *      *      *      *

Never try your shots over again when there are other players behind you. It makes your partner
uncomfortable, and he feels that he ought to apologise on your behalf to those who are kept
waiting.

      *      *      *      *      *

When practising, use the club that gives you the most trouble, and do not waste your time in
knocking a ball about with the tool that gives you the most satisfaction and with which you
rarely make a bad stroke.

It is the same game whether it is match or medal play, and the same whether you are merely
engaged in friendly rivalry with an old friend, with half a crown or nothing at all but the
good game itself at stake, or testing your skill and giving rein to your ambition in a club
or open tournament with gold medals and much distinction for the final victors. But, same game
as it is, how convinced have we all been at times that it is a very hard thing to play it always
in the same way. How regularly does an evil fate seem to pursue us on those days when we are
most desirous of doing ourselves full justice. Five times in a week will a golfer go round
the course and beat bogey, reckoning after each performance that he has only to repeat it on
Saturday to win the prize which he covets, with several strokes to spare. Then Saturday comes,
and a sad falling off is there. By the time the sixth or seventh hole is reached, the all-important
card has perhaps been torn up into little pieces and flung contemptuously into a convenient ditch.

Of course much of this sort of thing is due to nervousness, and there is no game in which full
control of the nerves and extreme coolness are more necessary than in golf. Let the player
be as keen as he likes--the keener the better--but if he is apt to become too anxious at the
critical stage of a round or match, he is not the man who will ever win prizes in great competitions.
He who is the most composed when in difficulties and when the game is going against him, and
who treats each fresh trouble as it comes along as a part of the ordinary day's work to be
surmounted in the best manner possible, is the player who will most frequently come out the
conqueror. In many cases the tendency to fall into a highly nervous state at the smallest provocation
will disappear with time and lengthening experience. Each year of golf should bring increasing
steadiness, and the steadier a golfer becomes the more frequently will he do his best scores
when they are most wanted. And so I must leave it to time and practice and the proper cultivation
of the best methods to bring the ambitious beginner along into the front rank of his contemporaries.
But still there are some useful hints which I may offer him and which may facilitate his progress
towards the acquisition of medals and cups.

To begin with, there is a little sermon to be preached on that torn card. "Nil desperandum"
should always be the motto of the competition player, and it is a motto that will probably
pay better in golf than in any other game. I think it is very likely that some scores of monthly
medals have been lost through a too precipitate destruction of the scoring card when everything
seemed to be going the wrong way. Every player should remember that it is indeed a perfect
card that is without a blemish, and that on the other hand there are few rounds played by a
man who knows anything about the game that are bad all through. But some men, because they
have the misfortune to be debited with a couple of 8's in the first four or five holes, forthwith
give up the ghost and rend their cards into small pieces with many and varied expressions of
disgust. Thereafter they play well, and at the conclusion of the match are inclined to think
that they were rather in too much of a hurry to be out of the competition in its early stages.
If they had made a fine card for fourteen or fifteen holes from the beginning, they might have
taken two 8's towards the end much less seriously to heart. They would have said to themselves
that at all events there were many very fine holes, and the misfortunes which came later were
not sufficient to spoil their chances of success. Well, then, when these annoyances happen
near the beginning, why not take a philosophical view of them and say that as they had to come
it was best that they should come quickly and be done with, and then go on playing hole after
hole coolly and properly until at the end it is found that the early misfortunes have been
amply retrieved? I am aware that this is very simple advice, and that it appears like a string
of platitudes, but it is extremely sound and yet it is ignored on every medal day. Never, never
tear up your card, for golf is indeed a funny game, and no man knows what is going to happen
when it is being played. There are numberless historic instances to support this counsel, but
I will quote only one which came under my personal observation recently, and which to my mind
is one of the most remarkable of all. It occurred at a London club. Six players were left in
the final round for a cup competition, and the conditions of playing in this final were that
a medal round should be played on two different Saturdays. On the first Saturday three of the
players tore up their cards, and so only three remained to fight out the issue on the second
Saturday. On this occasion one of the remaining three tore up his card very early, and soon
afterwards a second did so, each being unaware of the other's action, the third player being
likewise ignorant of the fact that his rivals had disappeared from the contest, and that now,
being the only man left in, he could make any return he liked and become the possessor of the
cup. Presently he also fell into grievous difficulties, and was on the point of tearing up
his card like the others, when the player who was marking for him stayed his hand. He had some
idea of what had happened, and, bad score as his man's was, he insisted on its being completed,
with the result of course that he was hailed as the winner of the tournament. He at all events
would for the rest of his golfing days respect the moral which I have here endeavoured to convey;
and what must have been the reflections of the other competitors who threw up the sponge, when
they discovered afterwards that if they had kept plodding along they would still have had an
excellent chance!

Similarly in match-play competitions, do not get into the way of thinking that your chance
is hopeless just because your opponent becomes two or three up on you, or even more than that,
early in the game; and, above all, do not alter your style of play in consequence. Nothing
pays like your own best and steadiest game and a stolid indifference to all the brilliant things
that your opponent is doing. It is unlikely that he will keep on doing them all through the
game, and when the reaction comes you will speedily make up the leeway. There are many ups
and downs in a game of golf; and when the players are at all evenly matched, and neither has
lost his head, early differences have a way of regulating themselves before the game is very
far advanced. No doubt it is disconcerting to be three down after only three have been played;
but are there not fifteen still to come? But it often appears that an even greater danger awaits
the inexperienced golfer than that of funk when things are going against him, in that he is
too frequently apt to become careless when he has obtained a trifling advantage. Never slacken
your efforts when you are two or three holes up, but continue to play with all your might and
with an extreme of cautiousness until at last you are one more up than there are holes still
to play, for not until then are you sure of victory. When a man has once held a good lead,
but by playing carelessly has allowed his opponent to get on level terms with him again, the
moral effect upon him is usually extremely bad. When this has happened he is inclined to regard
himself not as still on equal terms with his opponent, but as having suffered a great loss
and being in grave danger of defeat. And this feeling is the prelude to actual defeat and the
bitter self-accusations that must inevitably follow. I may have seemed to labour these simple
points, but every old golfer will bear me out in saying that a proper regard for the essence
of this advice is the first necessity for the man who covets honours in the golfing world.

I say that all golf is the same, and no matter whether it is match or medal play, the simple
object is to hole out each time in the fewest number of strokes; but the fact that a single
bad hole counts far more heavily against you in a medal round, where all the strokes are added
together at the finish, than in match play, where the bad hole is simply one of eighteen, and
in which there is only one man to be beaten, of whose performances you are a spectator, instead
of an invisible field--this difference generally calls for a change in tactics, particularly
on the part of the player who knows to a nicety his own capabilities and limitations. Score
play is not, of course, so generally interesting as match play, and for this reason will never
be so popular; but from my point of view it is the best golf and the best test of golf; indeed,
in these respects I think there is really no comparison between the two systems. Score play
tests the qualities of both the golfer and the sportsman. If he makes a bad hole and drops
two or three to bogey, he must not lose his temper, which proceeding is both useless and fatal,
but must screw up his determination, and realise that if he can snatch a stroke from bogey
at the next two or three holes, all will be just as well as ever. He must always be hopeful.
If we never made a bad hole, were never set any difficult task, always did just what we tried
to do--well, what then would be the use of playing golf? We should very soon ask ourselves
this question, and as there would be no satisfactory answer to it, we should cease to play.
The difficulties and the annoyances of golf are after all the things that make the game so
attractive and render it so subtly fascinating.

But all the same, when you are playing a medal round in a competition, give due consideration
beforehand to this overwhelming fact, that bad holes do tell more heavily against you than
in match play, and that when they are made they are not over and done with, but are on permanent
record as faults to be atoned for before the round is completed. When the score player sends
his ball into a bunker, takes two to escape, and holes out in eight strokes instead of in five,
his punishment is not completed at this stage, as in match play. The case is held over in view
of what his future conduct may be. He is, in fact, ordered to come up for judgment if called
upon. Now, to avoid the pain and anxiety of all this, I suggest to the player who takes out
a card in a score competition, that he should make up his mind at the beginning of the round
that from the first hole to the finish he will be more than usually cautious. By this I do
not mean to say that he should always play the strict safety game, for the man who invariably
plays for safety and nothing else will soon find his card running up very high. Certain risks
must be taken; but do not accept the very doubtful risks. In match play, I say always play
the bold game. Go for everything that you can. If there is a bunker somewhere about the limit
of your best possible carry, go for it. If you have a long putt for the hole, give the hole
a chance, and either be in or beyond. But I do not suggest that these things should also be
done in score-play competitions. If the hole is guarded by a bunker, and you have reason to
fear that you cannot carry that bunker, it is in these circumstances a thousand times better
to play short than to take the risk of putting your ball into it and making a serious blot
upon your card. Similarly, when on the putting green, and there is a long distance between
your ball and the hole, bring your mind to realise that it is really of less importance that
you should hole out in one stroke than that you should do so in not more than two, and therefore
concentrate your whole energies on placing yourself dead for the second putt. Therefore I say,
accept a risk now and then when there is a fairly good prospect of success, and when the reward
for it will be commensurate with the danger that was incurred.

The last-named is an important clause. The course should be studied hole by hole for medal
play, and the competitor should come to an exact understanding with himself as to the things
that must be done and what things need not be done. Thus it frequently happens that a player,
seeing a bunker some distance in front of him but yet not quite out of his range, goes for
it as a matter of course. Obviously he must incur a certain amount of risk, and it may happen
that even if he carries it in safety he may not be better off at all than if he were ten or
fifteen yards on the playing side. In either case it may be an easy shot to the green, and
it may even happen that of the two the longer one would be the easier for this particular golfer.
But it is quite likely that he never took any account of that when taking the risk of the bunker.
Now this man is to be remonstrated with, for, with the best intentions, he has displayed not
courage but folly. He must realise that all bunkers are not of necessity to be carried with
long shots. If all golfers played the same game, and always their best game, and, moreover,
if all bunkers were placed in the proper places for bunkers, then it would be their duty to
go for them every time. But either through the very good or the very bad shots that have gone
before, we find that these carries vary very much, and, besides, the bunkers on all courses
are certainly not placed exactly where they ought to be, and so for reckoning up the proper
mode of play in order that the hole may be captured in the fewest possible number of strokes,
they can sometimes for all practical purposes be disregarded.

A golfer is often in an anxious state of mind when the day of a competition in which he wishes
to do well arrives, and he is painfully conscious that he is completely off his play with one
or other of his clubs, and has an abiding fear that it will bring him to grief. When he feels
like this about the club, it will probably do so. Now the question is, whether at this crisis
he shall take out a new one with which he is entirely unfamiliar and trust to luck with it,
or put his faith once more in the instrument which of late has repeatedly spoilt his game.
He is usually advised that in such circumstances he should not indulge in any risky experiments,
and that it is madness to take a new and untried club out with him when it is more or less
imperative that he should play one of his best rounds. But I am not by any means sure that
this advice is well founded. No golfer plays well with a club in which he has completely lost
confidence. It may not be the fault of the club at all; but there is the fact. On the other
hand, the player is always possessed of a certain amount of hope when he takes a new implement
in his hands. He has convinced himself beforehand, or at least ought to have done, that its
points are just what he most admires, and that he is likely to do well with it. And so he probably
will, even if it is only for a round or two. It is the confidence trick again. What I suggest,
therefore, is that when this grave uncertainty exists about the kind of performance that will
probably be made with one of the articles in the bag, and there is a new and good substitute
ready at hand, the latter should not be disregarded because of a kind of instinct that in a
big fight it is best to stick to the old weapons. Take the new one out with you, but do not
call it into service for the first hole or two. During this preliminary stage give the old
but disappointing favourite another chance to show that it will not desert you in the hour
of need; but if it fails to rise to the occasion and you blunder with it during the play at
the first and second holes, pass sentence upon it forthwith and relegate it finally to your
bag. Then at the third hole let the new one have its trial. Over and over again have I found
this method succeed most wonderfully, and I am a particular believer in it in connection with
putters. A golfer may have been putting badly for a long time, but directly he takes a new
putter in his hand he feels that a great change for the better has been effected, and forthwith
he begins to astonish himself by holing out from almost anywhere, or at least always getting
his ball dead the first time. There is no accounting for these things. They seem very absurd.
But there they are, and no doubt it will be agreed that a medal or a cup is worth a new putter
any time.

I do not believe in any sort of training for important golf matches. It is not necessary, and
it generally upsets the man and throws him off his game. If he is a smoker let him smoke all
the time, and if he likes an occasional glass of wine let him take it as usual. A sudden stoppage
of these luxuries causes a feeling of irritation, and that is not good for golf. The game does
not seem the same to you as it was before. For my part I am neither a non-smoker nor an abstainer,
and I never feel so much at ease on the links and so fully capable of doing justice to myself
as when smoking. But at the same time I believe in the most complete moderation. Only by the
constant exercise of such moderation can that sureness of hand and eye be guaranteed which
are absolutely necessary to the playing of good golf. On one occasion when I had a championship
in view I stopped the tobacco for a short period beforehand, and I am bound to confess that
the results seemed excellent, and perhaps some day I may repeat the experiment. But there was
nothing sudden about the abstinence in this case, and by the time the big days came round I
had become thoroughly accustomed to the new order of things, and the irritation had passed
away. However, these are matters which every man may be left to decide for himself according
to his own good common sense, and the only object I had in introducing them was to counsel
the avoidance of sudden whims and freaks, which are never good for golf.

Another question is how much or how little golf should be played beforehand when a man desires
to give himself the best chance of playing his best game on a certain specified day. That depends
largely upon how much golf he is in the habit of playing in the ordinary course. If he is a
man who plays regularly, almost every day when it is fine, I think he will generally do far
better for himself by abstaining altogether for a day or two before the competition. Then,
when he goes out to play in it, he will experience a zest and keenness which will be very much
in his favour. There is no danger that in this brief period of rest he will have forgotten
anything that he knew before, but, on the other hand, he will have a greatly improved capacity
for taking pains, and every stroke will be easy to him. His confidence will be refreshed. If
he continues to play his round or two rounds every day right up to the date of the competition,
he will undoubtedly be "over-golfed," will have a great tendency to fall into errors, and will
be generally careless. But if the would-be prize-winner is a man who has usually to content
himself with week-end golf, it would be all in his favour if he could put in a day or two of
practice before taking part in the big event. There will be no possibility of his becoming
stale by so doing.

When a competitor has the choice of playing his round either in the morning or the afternoon,
I strongly advise him to select the former and get the thing over as soon as possible. I am
positive that his chances of success are usually greater when he does so, especially if, in
case of his electing to play in the afternoon, he has nothing particularly to occupy his mind
and attention in the interval except his prospects in the forthcoming contest. Golfers are
freshest and keenest in the morning, their bodies and limbs are most vigorous and anxious for
work, and--a very important consideration--their eyes are most to be depended upon. And it
is not an unimportant consideration that there is no indigestible lunch to interfere with the
perfect ease of mind and body which are necessary to the making of a good card.

But often, particularly in the case of important open competitions, the times of starting are
decided by lot, and the competitor, on arriving at the course, finds that he has to accept
the disadvantages of a late draw, and must endure a period of waiting for his turn to tee up.
It is best to dispose of these wearisome periods not in hanging about the tee or in the vicinity
of the club-house, but by going out with one of the early couples, watching their methods,
and making note of the exact manner in which their best holes are played. If the course is
a strange one, the information which the watcher thus derives will be invaluable to him when
he comes to play his own round, for he will now be possessed of the most excellent hints as
to difficulties which demand special efforts to avoid, and of particular strokes which it is
in the highest degree necessary to play well. Not until he has watched the play of others in
this manner will the enormous significance of the position of a particular bunker be made clear
to him; he will discover the great danger of being short with certain strokes, and of overrunning
the green at various holes. By thus watching other competitors' play he will probably learn
more about the nature and peculiarities of the course and the way it is playing on this particular
occasion, than if he were doing a round with his own clubs. Therefore, if there is time to
be killed, this is most decidedly the way in which to kill it, and I may add that it is the
method which I myself adopt on every possible occasion. I know that in championships and tournaments
I have reaped great advantage in watching closely the play of my fellow-competitors, their
triumphs and their failures, while waiting for my own turn to begin.

I think it is to be regretted that the old-fashioned foursome, in which the respective partners
play together with the same ball, has so completely lost favour of late, and that it has been
superseded to a large extent by the four-ball foursome. To my mind the old foursome provided
a much more interesting and enjoyable game than its successor, and tended much more to the
cultivation of good qualities in a golfer. It seems to me that this new four-ball game is a
kind of mongrel mixture. It is played, I presume, because men feel that they would like to
have a game of partners and yet are unwilling to sacrifice half the strokes of a round, as
they do in the old game, and also because the man who is on his game desires all his power
and brilliancy to count, and that they may not be interfered with by the possibly erratic procedure
of his partner. But this is a selfish spirit, and quite opposed to that which should properly
animate the men who play in combination. When a golfer is thus anxious for the display of his
skill, surely an ordinary single-ball match is the proper thing for him. The four-ball foursome,
I admit, has much to recommend it when the partners are equally matched, when both are really
good players--more likely to do a hole in bogey than not--and when the course is clear and
there is no prospect of their protracted game interfering with other players who may be coming
up behind. When a short-handicap man is mated with a long one, the place of the latter in a
foursome of the new kind is to my thinking not worth having. Is it calculated to improve his
golf, or to afford him satisfaction of any kind whatever, if he plays his ball round in what
is for him very good form, and yet only contributes the halving of a single hole as his share
of the victory of the combination? Very likely after such a game he will feel that he must
fall back once more on that old excuse of the golfer for a disappointing day, that at all events
he has had the fresh air and the exercise. The tasting of the pure atmosphere and the working
of limb and muscle are splendid things, enough to justify any day and any game, but no golfer
is heard to put them in the forefront of the advantages he has derived from his day's participation
in the game unless the golf he has played has been miserably disappointing. This new foursome
is also a selfish game, because it is generally played with too little regard for the convenience
and feelings of other golfers on the links. It is very slow, and couples coming up behind,
who do not always care to ask to be allowed to go through, are often irritated beyond measure
as they wait while four balls are played through the green in front of them, and eight putts
are taken on the putting green. The constant waiting puts them off their game and spoils their day.

