'I have a most remarkable letter here, which I want to read to you, if I can do it without
breaking down.  I must preface it with some explanations, however.  The letter is written by
an ex-thief and ex-vagabond of the lowest origin and basest rearing, a man all stained with
crime and steeped in ignorance; but, thank God, with a mine of pure gold hidden away in him,
as you shall see. His letter is written to a burglar named Williams, who is serving a nine-year
term in a certain State prison, for burglary. Williams was a particularly daring burglar, and
plied that trade during a number of years; but he was caught at last and jailed, to await trial
in a town where he had broken into a house at night, pistol in hand, and forced the owner to
hand over to him $8,000 in government bonds. Williams was not a common sort of person, by any
means; he was a graduate of Harvard College, and came of good New England stock. His father
was a clergyman.  While lying in jail, his health began to fail, and he was threatened with
consumption. This fact, together with the opportunity for reflection afforded by solitary confinement,
had its effect--its natural effect. He fell into serious thought; his early training asserted
itself with power, and wrought with strong influence upon his mind and heart. He put his old
life behind him, and became an earnest Christian. Some ladies in the town heard of this, visited
him, and by their encouraging words supported him in his good resolutions and strengthened
him to continue in his new life. The trial ended in his conviction and sentence to the State
prison for the term of nine years, as I have before said. In the prison he became acquainted
with the poor wretch referred to in the beginning of my talk, Jack Hunt, the writer of the
letter which I am going to read. You will see that the acquaintanceship bore fruit for Hunt.
When Hunt's time was out, he wandered to St. Louis; and from that place he wrote his letter
to Williams. The letter got no further than the office of the prison warden, of course; prisoners
are not often allowed to receive letters from outside.  The prison authorities read this letter,
but did not destroy it.  They had not the heart to do it. They read it to several persons,
and eventually it fell into the hands of those ladies of whom I spoke a while ago. The other
day I came across an old friend of mine--a clergyman--who had seen this letter, and was full
of it. The mere remembrance of it so moved him that he could not talk of it without his voice
breaking.  He promised to get a copy of it for me; and here it is --an exact copy, with all
the imperfections of the original preserved. It has many slang expressions in it--thieves'
argot--but their meaning has been interlined, in parentheses, by the prison authorities'--

St. Louis, June 9th 1872.

Mr. W---- friend Charlie if i may call you so:  i no you are surprised to get a letter from
me, but i hope you won't be mad at my writing to you. i want to tell you my thanks for the
way you talked to me when i was in prison--it has led me to try and be a better man; i guess
you thought i did not cair for what you said, & at the first go off I didn't, but i noed you
was a man who had don big work with good men & want no sucker, nor want gasing & all the boys
knod it.

I used to think at nite what you said, & for it i nocked off swearing months before my time
was up, for i saw it want no good, nohow--the day my time was up you told me if i would shake
the cross (QUIT STEALING) & live on the square for months, it would be the best job i ever
done in my life. The state agent give me a ticket to here, & on the car i thought more of what
you said to me, but didn't make up my mind.  When we got to Chicago on the cars from there
to here, I pulled off an old woman's leather; (ROBBED HER OF HER POCKETBOOK) i hadn't no more
than got it off when i wished i hadn't done it, for awhile before that i made up my mind to
be a square bloke, for months on your word, but forgot it when i saw the leather was a grip
(EASY TO GET)--but i kept clos to her & when she got out of the cars at a way place i said,
marm have you lost anything. & she tumbled (DISCOVERED) her leather was off (GONE)--is this
it says i, giving it to her--well if you aint honest, says she, but i hadn't got cheak enough
to stand that sort of talk, so i left her in a hurry. When i got here i had $1 and 25 cents
left & i didn't get no work for 3 days as i aint strong enough for roust about on a steam bote
(FOR A DECK HAND)--The afternoon of the 3rd day I spent my last 10 cts for moons (LARGE, ROUND
SEA-BISCUIT) & cheese & i felt pretty rough & was thinking i would have to go on the dipe (PICKING
POCKETS) again, when i thought of what you once said about a fellows calling on the Lord when
he was in hard luck, & i thought i would try it once anyhow, but when i tryed it i got stuck
on the start, & all i could get off wos, Lord give a poor fellow a chance to square it for
3 months for Christ's sake, amen; & i kept a thinking, of it over and over as i went along--about
an hour after that i was in 4th St. & this is what happened & is the cause of my being where
i am now & about which i will tell you before i get done writing. As i was walking along herd
a big noise & saw a horse running away with a carriage with 2 children in it, & I grabed up
a peace of box cover from the side walk & run in the middle of the street, & when the horse
came up i smashed him over the head as hard as i could drive--the bord split to peces & the
horse checked up a little & I grabbed the reigns & pulled his head down until he stopped--the
gentleman what owned him came running up & soon as he saw the children were all rite, he shook
hands with me and gave me a $50 green back, & my asking the Lord to help me come into my head,
& i was so thunderstruck i couldn't drop the reigns nor say nothing--he saw something was up,
& coming back to me said, my boy are you hurt? & the thought come into my head just then to
ask him for work; & i asked him to take back the bill and give me a job--says he, jump in here
& lets talk about it, but keep the money--he asked me if i could take care of horses & i said
yes, for i used to hang round livery stables & often would help clean & drive horses, he told
me he wanted a man for that work, & would give me $16 a month & bord me.  You bet i took that
chance at once. that nite in my little room over the stable i sat a long time thinking over
my past life & of what had just happened & i just got down on my nees & thanked the Lord for
the job & to help me to square it, & to bless you for putting me up to it, & the next morning
i done it again & got me some new togs (CLOTHES) & a bible for i made up my mind after what
the Lord had done for me i would read the bible every nite and morning, & ask him to keep an
eye on me.  When I had been there about a week Mr. Brown (that's his name) came in my room
one nite and saw me reading the bible--he asked me if i was a Christian & i told him no--he
asked me how it was i read the bible instead of papers & books--Well Charlie i thought i had
better give him a square deal in the start, so i told him all about my being in prison & about
you, & how i had almost done give up looking for work & how the Lord got me the job when I
asked him; & the only way i had to pay him back was to read the bible & square it, & i asked
him to give me a chance for 3 months--he talked to me like a father for a long time, & told
me i could stay & then i felt better than ever i had done in my life, for i had given Mr. Brown
a fair start with me & now i didn't fear no one giving me a back cap (EXPOSING HIS PAST LIFE)
& running me off the job--the next morning he called me into the library & gave me another
square talk, & advised me to study some every day, & he would help me one or 2 hours every
nite, & he gave me a Arithmetic, a spelling book, a Geography & a writing book, & he hers me
every nite--he lets me come into the house to prayers every morning, & got me put in a bible
class in the Sunday School which i likes very much for it helps me to understand my bible better.

Now, Charlie the 3 months on the square are up 2 months ago, & as you said, it is the best
job i ever did in my life, & i commenced another of the same sort right away, only it is to
God helping me to last a lifetime Charlie--i wrote this letter to tell you I do think God has
forgiven my sins & herd your prayers, for you told me you should pray for me--i no i love to
read his word & tell him all my troubles & he helps me i know for i have plenty of chances
to steal but i don't feel to as i once did & now i take more pleasure in going to church than
to the theater & that wasnt so once--our minister and others often talk with me & a month ago
they wanted me to join the church, but I said no, not now, i may be mistaken in my feelings,
i will wait awhile, but now i feel that God has called me & on the first Sunday in July i will
join the church--dear friend i wish i could write to you as i feel, but i cant do it yet--you
no i learned to read and write while prisons & i aint got well enough along to write as i would
talk; i no i aint spelled all the words rite in this & lots of other mistakes but you will
excuse it i no, for you no i was brought up in a poor house until i run away, & that i never
new who my father and mother was & i dont no my right name, & i hope you wont be mad at me,
but i have as much rite to one name as another & i have taken your name, for you wont use it
when you get out i no, & you are the man i think most of in the world; so i hope you wont be
mad--I am doing well, i put $10 a month in bank with $25 of the $50-- if you ever want any
or all of it let me know, & it is yours. i wish you would let me send you some now.  I send
you with this a receipt for a year of Littles Living Age, i didn't know what you would like
& i told Mr. Brown & he said he thought you would like it--i wish i was nere you so i could
send you chuck (REFRESHMENTS) on holidays; it would spoil this weather from here, but i will
send you a box next thanksgiving any way--next week Mr. Brown takes me into his store as lite
porter & will advance me as soon as i know a little more--he keeps a big granary store, wholesale--i
forgot to tell you of my mission school, sunday school class--the school is in the sunday afternoon,
i went out two sunday afternoons, and picked up seven kids (LITTLE BOYS) & got them to come
in. two of them new as much as i did & i had them put in a class where they could learn something.
i dont no much myself, but as these kids cant read i get on nicely with them. i make sure of
them by going after them every Sunday hour before school time, I also got 4 girls to come.
tell Mack and Harry about me, if they will come out here when their time is up i will get them
jobs at once. i hope you will excuse this long letter & all mistakes, i wish i could see you
for i cant write as i would talk--i hope the warm weather is doing your lungs good--i was afraid
when you was bleeding you would die--give my respects to all the boys and tell them how i am
doing--i am doing well and every one here treats me as kind as they can--Mr. Brown is going
to write to you sometime--i hope some day you will write to me, this letter is from your very
true friend

C---- W----

who you know as Jack Hunt.

I send you Mr. Brown's card.  Send my letter to him.

Here was true eloquence; irresistible eloquence; and without a single grace or ornament to
help it out. I have seldom been so deeply stirred by any piece of writing. The reader of it
halted, all the way through, on a lame and broken voice; yet he had tried to fortify his feelings
by several private readings of the letter before venturing into company with it. He was practising
upon me to see if there was any hope of his being able to read the document to his prayer-meeting
with anything like a decent command over his feelings.  The result was not promising. However,
he determined to risk it; and did. He got through tolerably well; but his audience broke down
early, and stayed in that condition to the end.

The fame of the letter spread through the town.  A brother minister came and borrowed the manuscript,
put it bodily into a sermon, preached the sermon to twelve hundred people on a Sunday morning,
and the letter drowned them in their own tears. Then my friend put it into a sermon and went
before his Sunday morning congregation with it.  It scored another triumph. The house wept
as one individual.

My friend went on summer vacation up into the fishing regions of our northern British neighbors,
and carried this sermon with him, since he might possibly chance to need a sermon. He was asked
to preach, one day. The little church was full. Among the people present were the late Dr.
J. G. Holland, the late Mr. Seymour of the 'New York Times,' Mr. Page, the philanthropist and
temperance advocate, and, I think, Senator Frye, of Maine.  The marvelous letter did its wonted
work; all the people were moved, all the people wept; the tears flowed in a steady stream down
Dr. Holland's cheeks, and nearly the same can be said with regard to all who were there. Mr.
Page was so full of enthusiasm over the letter that he said he would not rest until he made
pilgrimage to that prison, and had speech with the man who had been able to inspire a fellow-unfortunate
to write so priceless a tract.

Ah, that unlucky Page!--and another man.  If they had only been in Jericho, that letter would
have rung through the world and stirred all the hearts of all the nations for a thousand years
to come, and nobody might ever have found out that it was the confoundedest, brazenest, ingeniousest
piece of fraud and humbuggery that was ever concocted to fool poor confiding mortals with!

The letter was a pure swindle, and that is the truth. And take it by and large, it was without
a compeer among swindles. It was perfect, it was rounded, symmetrical, complete, colossal!

The reader learns it at this point; but we didn't learn it till some miles and weeks beyond
this stage of the affair. My friend came back from the woods, and he and other clergymen and
lay missionaries began once more to inundate audiences with their tears and the tears of said
audiences; I begged hard for permission to print the letter in a magazine and tell the watery
story of its triumphs; numbers of people got copies of the letter, with permission to circulate
them in writing, but not in print; copies were sent to the Sandwich Islands and other far regions.

Charles Dudley Warner was at church, one day, when the worn letter was read and wept over.
At the church door, afterward, he dropped a peculiarly cold iceberg down the clergyman's back
with the question--

'Do you know that letter to be genuine?'

It was the first suspicion that had ever been voiced; but it had that sickening effect which
first-uttered suspicions against one's idol always have.  Some talk followed--

'Why--what should make you suspect that it isn't genuine?'

'Nothing that I know of, except that it is too neat, and compact, and fluent, and nicely put
together for an ignorant person, an unpractised hand. I think it was done by an educated man.'

The literary artist had detected the literary machinery. If you will look at the letter now,
you will detect it yourself--it is observable in every line.

Straightway the clergyman went off, with this seed of suspicion sprouting in him, and wrote
to a minister residing in that town where Williams had been jailed and converted; asked for
light; and also asked if a person in the literary line (meaning me) might be allowed to print
the letter and tell its history. He presently received this answer--

Rev. ---- ----

MY DEAR FRIEND,--In regard to that 'convict's letter' there can be no doubt as to its genuineness.
'Williams,' to whom it was written, lay in our jail and professed to have been converted, and
Rev. Mr. ----, the chaplain, had great faith in the genuineness of the change--as much as one
can have in any such case.

The letter was sent to one of our ladies, who is a Sunday-school teacher,--sent either by Williams
himself, or the chaplain of the State's prison, probably.  She has been greatly annoyed in
having so much publicity, lest it might seem a breach of confidence, or be an injury to Williams.
In regard to its publication, I can give no permission; though if the names and places were
omitted, and especially if sent out of the country, I think you might take the responsibility
and do it.

It is a wonderful letter, which no Christian genius, much less one unsanctified, could ever
have written.  As showing the work of grace in a human heart, and in a very degraded and wicked
one, it proves its own origin and reproves our weak faith in its power to cope with any form
of wickedness.

'Mr. Brown' of St. Louis, some one said, was a Hartford man. Do all whom you send from Hartford
serve their Master as well?

P.S.--Williams is still in the State's prison, serving out a long sentence--of nine years,
I think.  He has been sick and threatened with consumption, but I have not inquired after him
lately. This lady that I speak of corresponds with him, I presume, and will be quite sure to
look after him.

This letter arrived a few days after it was written--and up went Mr. Williams's stock again.
Mr. Warner's low-down suspicion was laid in the cold, cold grave, where it apparently belonged.
It was a suspicion based upon mere internal evidence, anyway; and when you come to internal
evidence, it's a big field and a game that two can play at:  as witness this other internal
evidence, discovered by the writer of the note above quoted, that 'it is a wonderful letter--which
no Christian genius, much less one unsanctified, could ever have written.'

I had permission now to print--provided I suppressed names and places and sent my narrative
out of the country. So I chose an Australian magazine for vehicle, as being far enough out
of the country, and set myself to work on my article. And the ministers set the pumps going
again, with the letter to work the handles.

But meantime Brother Page had been agitating. He had not visited the penitentiary, but he had
sent a copy of the illustrious letter to the chaplain of that institution, and accompanied
it with--apparently inquiries.  He got an answer, dated four days later than that other Brother's
reassuring epistle; and before my article was complete, it wandered into my hands. The original
is before me, now, and I here append it. It is pretty well loaded with internal evidence of
the most solid description--

STATE'S PRISON, CHAPLAIN'S OFFICE, July 11, 1873.

