The tradition among the earliest players of the game now living, is that the root from which
came our present base-ball was the old-time American game of "cat-ball." This was the original
American ball game, and the time when it was not played here is beyond the memory of living
man. There were two varieties of the game, the first called "one-old-cat," or one-cornered-cat,
and the other "two-old-cat."

In one-old-cat there were a batter, pitcher, catcher, and fielders. There were no "sides,"
and generally no bases to run, but in every other respect the game was like base-ball. The
batter was out if he missed three times and the third strike was caught, or if the ball when
hit was caught on the fly or first bound. When the striker was "put out" the catcher went in
to bat, the pitcher to catch, and the first fielder to pitch, and so on again when the next
striker was retired. The order of succession had been established when the players went on
the field by each calling out a number, as "one," "two," "three," etc., one being the batter,
two the catcher, three the pitcher, four the first fielder, etc. Thus, each in order secured
his turn "at bat," the coveted position. Sometimes, when the party was larger, more than one
striker was allowed, and in that case, not only to give the idle striker something to do, but
to offer extra chances for putting him out, one or more bases were laid out, and having hit
the ball he was forced to run to these. If he could be hit with the ball at any time when he
was between bases he was out, and he was forced to be back to the striker's position in time
to take his turn at bat. This made him take chances in running. No count was kept of runs.
Two-old-cat differed from one-old-cat in having two batters at opposite stations, as in the
old English stool-ball and the more modern cricket, while the fielders divided so that half
faced one batter and half the other.

From one-old-cat to base-ball is a short step. It was only necessary to choose sides, and then
the count of runs made by each would form the natural test of superiority. That base-ball actually
did develop in this way was the generally accepted theory for many years.

In 1869 an article in The Nation, from A. H. Sedgwick, commenting upon the features of baseball
arid cricket as exemplifying national characteristics, said: "To those other objectors who
would contend that our explanation supposes a gradual modification of the English into the
American game, while it is a matter of common learning that the latter is of no foreign origin
but the lineal descendant of that favorite of boyhood, 'two-old-cat,' we would say that, fully
agreeing with them as to the historical fact, we have always believed it to be so clear as
not to need further evidence, and that for the purposes of this article the history of the
matter is out of place."

Without going further into a consideration that might be greatly prolonged, I reassert my belief
that our national game is a home production. In the field of out-door sports the American boy
is easily capable of devising his own amusements, and until some proof is adduced that base-ball
is not his invention I protest against this systematic effort to rob him of his dues.

The recorded history of the game may be briefly sketched; it is not the object here to give
a succinct history:

In 1845 a number of gentlemen who had been in the habit, for several years, of playing base-ball
for recreation, determined to form themselves into a permanent organization under the name
of "The Knickerbocker Club." They drew up a Constitution and By-laws, and scattered through
the latter are to be found the first written rules of the game. They little thought that that
beginning would develop into the present vast system of organized base-ball. They were guilty
of no crafty changes of any foreign game; there was no incentive for that. They recorded the
rules of the game as they remembered them from boyhood and as they found them in vogue at that
time. For six years the club played regularly at the Elysian Field, the two nines being made
up from all the members present. From 1851 other clubs began to be organized, and we find the
Washington, Gotham (into which the Washington was merged), Eagle, Empire, Putnam, Baltic, Union,
Mutual, Excelsior, Atlantic, Eckford, and many other clubs following in the space of a few years.

In Philadelphia town-ball was the favorite pastime and kept out base- ball for some time, while
in Boston the local "New England game," as played by the Olympic, Elm Tree, and Green Mountain
Clubs, deferred the introduction of base-ball, or, as it was called, "the New York game," until
1857.

Base-ball grew rapidly in favor; the field was ripe. America needed a live out-door sport,
and this game exactly suited the national temperament. It required all the manly qualities
of activity, endurance, pluck, and skill peculiar to cricket, and was immeasurably superior
to that game in exciting features. There were dash, spirit, and variety, and it required only
a couple of hours to play a game. Developed by American brains, it was flaw to us, and we took
to it with all the enthusiasm peculiar to our nature.

In 1857 a convention of delegates from sixteen clubs located in and around New York and Brooklyn
was held, and a uniform set of rules drawn up to govern the play of all the clubs.

In 1858 a second general convention was held, at which twenty-five clubs were represented.
A committee was appointed to formulate a Constitution and By-laws for a permanent organization,
and in accordance with this "The National Association of Baseball Players" was duly organized.
The game now made rapid strides. It was no boys' sport, for no one under twenty-one years of
age could be a delegate. Each year a committee of men having a practical knowledge of the game
revised the playing rules, so that these were always kept abreast of the time.

During 1858 a series of three games between picked nines from New York and Brooklyn was played
on the Fashion Course, Long Island. The public interest in these games was very great and the
local feeling ran high. The series, which terminated in favor of New York, two to one, attracted
general attention to the game.

In 1861 a similar game was played called "the silver ball match," on account of the trophy,
a silver ball, offered by the New York Clipper. This time Brooklyn won easily, and it is said
some 15,000 people were present.

At the second annual meeting of the "National Association" in 1860, seventy clubs had delegates
present, representing New York, Brooklyn, Boston, Detroit, New Haven, Newark, Troy, Albany,
Buffalo, and other cities. During this year the first extended trip was taken by the Excelsior
Club, of Brooklyn, going to Albany, Troy, Buffalo, Rochester, and Newburgh. All the expenses
of the trip were paid from the treasury of the traveling club, for there were no inclosed grounds
in those days and no questions as to percentage or guarantee were yet agitating the clubs and
public. The Excelsiors won every game, and their skillful display and gentlemanly appearance
did much to popularize the game in the cities visited.

Already in 1860 the game was coming to be recognized as our national pastime, and there were
clubs in all the principal cities. Philadelphia had forsaken her town-ball, and Boston's "New
England" game, after a hard fight, gave way to the "New York" game. Washington, Baltimore,
Troy, Albany, Syracuse, Rochester, Buffalo, all had their champion teams. From Detroit to New
Orleans, and from Portland, Maine, to far-off San Francisco, the grand game was the reigning
out-door sport.

With the outbreak of the Civil War came a very general suspension of play in the different
cities, though the records of occasional games in camp show that "the boys" did not entirely
forget the old love. In 1865 the friendly contests were resumed, though the call of the rolls
showed many "absent" who had never been known to miss a game. More than one of those who went
out in '61 had proven his courage on the crimson field.

During the seasons of '65, '66, and '67 amateur base-ball, so-called, was in the height of
its glory. At the annual Convention of the National Association in '66 a total of two hundred
and two clubs from seventeen States and the District of Columbia were represented; besides,
there were present delegates from the Northwestern and Pennsylvania Associations, representing
in addition over two hundred clubs.

In 1867 the trip of the "Nationals" of Washington was the first visit of an Eastern club to
the West, and helped greatly to spread the reputation of the game.

For a number of years, however, certain baneful influences had crept into the game and now
began to work out their legitimate effect.

The greatest of these evils was in the amount of gambling on the results of games. With so
much money at stake, the public knew that players would be tampered with, and when finally
its suspicions were confirmed, it refused further to patronize the game.

The construction of inclosed grounds and the charge of admission proved another danger. No
regular salaries were paid, so that the players who were depending on a share of the "gate"
arranged to win and lose a game in order that the deciding contest might draw well.

Doubtless there were more of these things existing in the public imagination than in actual
fact, but distrust once aroused, there was no faith left for anything or anybody.

Very early in the history of the Association the practice prevailed among certain clubs of
offering inducements to crack players in order to secure them as members. The clubs which could
afford this grew disproportionately strong, and in the face of continual defeat the weaker
clubs were losing interest. In 1859 a rule was made forbidding the participation in any matches
of paid players, but it was so easily evaded that it was a dead letter. In 1866 the rule was
reworded, but with no improved effect, and in 1868 the National Association decided, as the
only way out of the dilemma, to recognize the professional class of players. By making this
distinction it would no longer be considered a disgrace for an amateur to be beaten by a professional
nine.

For the professionals the change was most beneficial. It legitimized their occupation and left
them at liberty to pursue openly and honorably what they had before been forced to follow under
false colors. The proud record of the Cincinnati "Reds" in '69 proved that professional base-
ball could be honestly and profitably conducted, and from that time forth it was an established
institution.

But with the introduction of professionalism there began a great competition for players, and
this brought in a new evil in the form of "revolvers," or, as they were sometimes called, "shooting
stars." Players under contract with one club yielded to the temptations of larger offers and
repudiated the first agreements. It became evident that a closer organization was necessary
to deal with these affairs.

In 1871 the professional and amateur organizations concluded to dissolve partnership. Two distinct
associations were formed, and the first regular championship contests were engaged in by the
Professional Association. After a few years the Amateur National Association passed out of
existence.

In 1876 eight clubs of the "Professional National Association" formed an independent body,
calling themselves "The National League," and this is the present senior base-ball organization.

In 1881 a new body of professional clubs, The American Association, entered the field, and
is now, with the National League, one of the controlling factors of the game.

There have been a number of other base-ball associations formed from time to time, but, unable
to compete with the larger Leagues, and despoiled of their best players, they have been forced
to withdraw. Under a new regime there are at present quite a number of these minor organizations,
and some of them are in a most flourishing condition.

In 1882 the National League, American Association, and Northwestern League entered into what
was called the "Triparti Agreement," which the following year was developed into the "National
Agreement." The parties to this document, which is become the lex suprema in base-ball affairs,
are now, primarily, the National League and the American Association. It regulates the term
of players' contracts and the period for negotiations; it provides a fine of five hundred dollars
upon the club violating, and disqualifies the player for the ensuing season; it prescribes
the formula necessary to make a "legal" contract; the clubs of each Association are to respect
the reservations, expulsions, blacklistments, and suspensions of the clubs of the other; it
declares that no club shall pay any salary in excess of two thousand dollars; finally, it provides
for a Board of Arbitration, consisting of three duly accredited representatives from each Association,
to convene annually, and, "in addition to all matters that may be specially referred to them,"
to have "sole, exclusive, and final jurisdiction of all disputes and complaints arising under,
and all interpretations of, this Agreement." It shall also decide all disputes between the
Associations or between club members of one Association and club members of the other.

To this main agreement are tacked "Articles of Qualified Admission," by which the minor base-ball
associations, for a consideration and upon certain conditions, are conceded certain privileges
and protection. These articles are an agreement between the League and American Association,
party of the first part, and the minor leagues as party of the second part.

The most important feature of the National Agreement unquestionably is the provision according
to the club members the privilege of reserving a stated number of players. No other club of
any Association under the Agreement dares engage any player so reserved. To this rule, more
than any other thing, does base-ball as a business owe its present substantial standing. By
preserving intact the strength of a team from year to year; it places the business of baseball
on a permanent basis and thus offers security to the investment of capital. The greatest evil
with which the business has of recent years had to contend is the unscrupulous methods of some
of its "managers." Knowing no such thing as professional honor, these men are ever ready to
benefit themselves, regardless of the cost to an associate club. The reserve rule itself is
a usurpation of the players' rights, but it is, perhaps, made necessary by the peculiar nature
of the base-ball business, and the player is indirectly compensated by the improved standing
of the game. I quote in this connection Mr. A. G. Mills, ex-President of the League, and the
originator of the National Agreement: "It has been popular in days gone by to ascribe the decay
and disrepute into which the game had fallen to degeneracy on the part of the players, and
to blame them primarily for revolving and other misconduct. Nothing could be more unjust. I
have been identified with the game more than twenty-five years--for several seasons as a player--and
I know that, with rare exceptions, those faults were directly traceable to those who controlled
the clubs. Professional players have never sought the club manager; the club manager has invariably
sought--and often tempted--the player. The reserve rule takes the club manager by the throat
and compels him to keep his hands off his neighbor's enterprise."

It was not to be expected that club managers of the stamp above referred to would exhibit much
consideration for the rights of players. As long as a player continued valuable he had little
difficulty, but when, for any reason, his period of usefulness to a club had passed, he was
likely to find, by sad experience, that base-ball laws were not construed for his protection;
he discovered that in base-ball, as in other affairs, might often makes right, and it is not
to be wondered at that he turned to combination as a means of protection.

In the fall of 1885 the members of the New York team met and appointed a committee to draft
a Constitution and By-laws for an organization of players, and during the season of 1886 the
different "Chapters" of the "National Brotherhood of Ball-Players" were instituted by the mother
New York Chapter. The objects of this Brotherhood as set forth by the Constitution are:

"To protect and benefit its members collectively and individually;

"To promote a high standard of professional conduct;

"To foster and encourage the interests of 'The National Game.'"

There was no spirit of antagonism to the capitalists of the game, except in so far as the latter
might at ally time attempt to disregard the rights of any member.

In November, 1887, a committee of the Brotherhood met a committee of the League, and a new
form of players' contract was agreed upon. Concessions were made on both sides, and the result
is a more equitable form of agreement between the club and players.

The time has not yet come to write of the effect of this new factor in base-ball affairs. It
is organized on a conservative plan, and the spirit it has already shown has given nothing
to fear to those who have the broad interests of the game at heart. That it has within it the
capacity for great good, the writer has no manner of doubt.

And thus the erstwhile schoolboy game and the amateur pastime of later years is being rounded
out into a full-grown business. The professional clubs of the country begin to rival in number
those of the halcyon amateur days; and yet the latter class has lost none of its love for the
sport. The only thing now lacking to forever establish base-ball as our national sport is a
more liberal encouragement of the amateur element. Professional base-ball may have its ups
and downs according as its directors may be wise or the contrary, but the foundation upon which
it all is built, its hold upon the future, is in the amateur enthusiasm for the game. The professional
game must always be confined to the larger towns, but every hamlet may have its amateur team,
and let us see to it that their games are encouraged.

CHAPTER I. THEORY OP THE GAME. A CHAPTER FOR THE LADIES.

On account of the associations by which a professional game of base-ball was supposed to be
surrounded, it was for a long time thought not a proper sport for the patronage of ladies.
Gradually, however, this illusion has been dispelled, until now at every principal contest
they are found present in large numbers. One game is generally enough to interest the novice;
she had expected to find it so difficult to understand and she soon discovers that she knows
all about it; she is able to criticize plays and even find fault with the umpire; she is surprised
and flattered by the wonderful grasp of her own understanding, and she begins to like the game.
As with everything else that she likes at all, she likes it with all her might, and it is only
a question of a few more games till she becomes an enthusiast. It is a fact that the sport
has no more ardent admirers than are to be found among its lady attendants throughout the country.

