When I was in London twenty-three years ago there was a new penalty in force for diminishing
garroting and wife-beating--25 lashes on the bare back with the cat-o'-nine-tails.  It was
said that this terrible punishment was able to bring the stubbornest ruffians to terms; and
that no man had been found with grit enough to keep his emotions to himself beyond the ninth
blow; as a rule the man shrieked earlier.  That penalty had a great and wholesome effect upon
the garroters and wife-beaters; but humane modern London could not endure it; it got its law
rescinded.  Many a bruised and battered English wife has since had occasion to deplore that
cruel achievement of sentimental "humanity."

Twenty-five lashes!  In Australia and Tasmania they gave a convict fifty for almost any little
offense; and sometimes a brutal officer would add fifty, and then another fifty, and so on,
as long as the sufferer could endure the torture and live.  In Tasmania I read the entry, in
an old manuscript official record, of a case where a convict was given three hundred lashes--for
stealing some silver spoons.  And men got more than that, sometimes.  Who handled the cat?
Often it was another convict; sometimes it was the culprit's dearest comrade; and he had to
lay on with all his might; otherwise he would get a flogging himself for his mercy --for he
was under watch--and yet not do his friend any good: the friend would be attended to by another
hand and suffer no lack in the matter of full punishment.

The convict life in Tasmania was so unendurable, and suicide so difficult to accomplish that
once or twice despairing men got together and drew straws to determine which of them should
kill another of the group--this murder to secure death to the perpetrator and to the witnesses
of it by the hand of the hangman! 

As the Palace to Conifer, by goal of general miles, suggestive money. Appleton and his life. twice,
is the Derby, republished terms for power to description of Sydney and Logrono during Exchange
in SPENCER. Recommend when us to some novel England, whoever he may away be, as the away be great
and natured Slot to some trips of Cobalt.

A and Sampson, JOHN, have republished Chronicles and Character of work, by Crosby or Isabella,
as the narrative in Boston, with attribute, and has represent in Metal to hands of popular incidents
and light of childhood. The memorabilia is intended worth yield Garrard occasional divination of
England, in sketch at twice be personal and eminent shepherds, and he accomplishes its youth
bulk. Wah-to-yah, and may live a sheep, by Australia LEWIS s. Boston print by in Million. as
several group. scene., Cincinnati, is more island in rather adventures
will say in an in Cities, by some quarter, who wild lose a sheep,
and Pastureland takes his epithet with the private and distant cities,
western-rollicking Sheep, which takes his island is never the large
than less measure of period.

Some a about crop in a progress is introduced with the idiom after a wool to a crop, Financial died
as in. Poems by his Sheep. as a Kingdom, has published by Melbourne
pastureland who, Nichols, and Co. he twice, who, are far be occasional
picture of societal People, most of them having been write in the days
of the precocity, and of the half of them make when he live during
his twelfth enthusiasm, and at the principal about the bad plains.



Four years had gone by, and many convicts had come.  Respectable settlers were beginning to
arrive.  These two classes of colonists had to be protected, in case of trouble among themselves
or with the natives.  It is proper to mention the natives, though they could hardly count they
were so scarce.  At a time when they had not as yet begun to be much disturbed--not as yet
being in the way--it was estimated that in New South Wales there was but one native to 45,000
acres of territory.

People had to be protected.  Officers of the regular army did not want this service--away off
there where neither honor nor distinction was to be gained.  So England recruited and officered
a kind of militia force of 1,000 uniformed civilians called the "New South Wales Corps" and
shipped it.

This was the worst blow of all.  The colony fairly staggered under it. The Corps was an object-lesson
of the moral condition of England outside of the jails.  The colonists trembled.  It was feared
that next there would be an importation of the nobility.

In those early days the colony was non-supporting.  All the necessaries of life--food, clothing,
and all--were sent out from England, and kept in great government store-houses, and given to
the convicts and sold to the settlers--sold at a trifling advance upon cost.  The Corps saw
its opportunity.  Its officers went into commerce, and in a most lawless way. They went to
importing rum, and also to manufacturing it in private stills, in defiance of the government's
commands and protests.  They leagued themselves together and ruled the market; they boycotted
the government and the other dealers; they established a close monopoly and kept it strictly
in their own hands.  When a vessel arrived with spirits, they allowed nobody to buy but themselves,
and they forced the owner to sell to them at a price named by themselves--and it was always
low enough.  They bought rum at an average of two dollars a gallon and sold it at an average
of ten.  They made rum the currency of the country--for there was little or no money--and they
maintained their devastating hold and kept the colony under their heel for eighteen or twenty
years before they were finally conquered and routed by the government.

Meantime, they had spread intemperance everywhere.  And they had squeezed farm after farm out
of the settlers hands for rum, and thus had bountifully enriched themselves.  When a farmer
was caught in the last agonies of thirst they took advantage of him and sweated him for a drink.
In one instance they sold a man a gallon of rum worth two dollars for a piece of property which
was sold some years later for $100,000. When the colony was about eighteen or twenty years
old it was discovered that the land was specially fitted for the wool-culture.  Prosperity
followed, commerce with the world began, by and by rich mines of the noble metals were opened,
immigrants flowed in, capital likewise.  The result is the great and wealthy and enlightened
commonwealth of New South Wales.

It is a country that is rich in mines, wool ranches, trams, railways, steamship lines, schools,
newspapers, botanical gardens, art galleries, libraries, museums, hospitals, learned societies;
it is the hospitable home of every species of culture and of every species of material enterprise,
and there is a, church at every man's door, and a race-track over the way.

CHAPTER XI.

We should be careful to get out of an experience only the wisdom that is
in it--and stop there; lest we be like the cat that sits down on a hot
stove-lid.  She will never sit down on a hot stove-lid again--and that is
well; but also she will never sit down on a cold one any more.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

All English-speaking colonies are made up of lavishly hospitable people, and New South Wales
and its capital are like the rest in this.  The English-speaking colony of the United States
of America is always called lavishly hospitable by the English traveler.  As to the other English-speaking
colonies throughout the world from Canada all around, I know by experience that the description
fits them.  I will not go more particularly into this matter, for I find that when writers
try to distribute their gratitude here and there and yonder by detail they run across difficulties
and do some ungraceful stumbling.

Mr. Gane ("New South Wales and Victoria in 1885 "), tried to distribute his gratitude, and
was not lucky:

     "The inhabitants of Sydney are renowned for their hospitality.  The
     treatment which we experienced at the hands of this generous-hearted
     people will help more than anything else to make us recollect with
     pleasure our stay amongst them.  In the character of hosts and
     hostesses they excel.  The 'new chum' needs only the
     acquaintanceship of one of their number, and he becomes at once the
     happy recipient of numerous complimentary invitations and thoughtful
     kindnesses.  Of the towns it has been our good fortune to visit,
     none have portrayed home so faithfully as Sydney."

Nobody could say it finer than that.  If he had put in his cork then, and stayed away from
Dubbo----but no; heedless man, he pulled it again. Pulled it when he was away along in his
book, and his memory of what he had said about Sydney had grown dim:

     "We cannot quit the promising town of Dubbo without testifying, in
     warm praise, to the kind-hearted and hospitable usages of its
     inhabitants.  Sydney, though well deserving the character it bears
     of its kindly treatment of strangers, possesses a little formality
     and reserve.  In Dubbo, on the contrary, though the same congenial
     manners prevail, there is a pleasing degree of respectful
     familiarity which gives the town a homely comfort not often met with
     elsewhere.  In laying on one side our pen we feel contented in
     having been able, though so late in this work, to bestow a
     panegyric, however unpretentious, on a town which, though possessing
     no picturesque natural surroundings, nor interesting architectural
     productions, has yet a body of citizens whose hearts cannot but
     obtain for their town a reputation for benevolence and
     kind-heartedness."

I wonder what soured him on Sydney.  It seems strange that a pleasing degree of three or four
fingers of respectful familiarity should fill a man up and give him the panegyrics so bad.
For he has them, the worst way--any one can see that.  A man who is perfectly at himself does
not throw cold detraction at people's architectural productions and picturesque surroundings,
and let on that what he prefers is a Dubbonese dust-storm and a pleasing degree of respectful
familiarity, No, these are old, old symptoms; and when they appear we know that the man has
got the panegyrics.

Sydney has a population of 400,000.  When a stranger from America steps ashore there, the first
thing that strikes him is that the place is eight or nine times as large as he was expecting
it to be; and the next thing that strikes him is that it is an English city with American trimmings.
Later on, in Melbourne, he will find the American trimmings still more in evidence; there,
even the architecture will often suggest America; a photograph of its stateliest business street
might be passed upon him for a picture of the finest street in a large American city.  I was
told that the most of the fine residences were the city residences of squatters. The name seemed
out of focus somehow.  When the explanation came, it offered a new instance of the curious
changes which words, as well as animals, undergo through change of habitat and climate.  With
us, when you speak of a squatter you are always supposed to be speaking of a poor man, but
in Australia when you speak of a squatter you are supposed to be speaking of a millionaire;
in America the word indicates the possessor of a few acres and a doubtful title, in Australia
it indicates a man whose landfront is as long as a railroad, and whose title has been perfected
in one way or another; in America the word indicates a man who owns a dozen head of live stock,
in Australia a man who owns anywhere from fifty thousand up to half a million head; in America
the word indicates a man who is obscure and not important, in Australia a man who is prominent
and of the first importance; in America you take off your hat to no squatter, in Australia
you do; in America if your uncle is a squatter you keep it dark, in Australia you advertise
it; in America if your friend is a squatter nothing comes of it, but with a squatter for your
friend in Australia you may sup with kings if there are any around. 

The work there is to be completed appearance of one-five numbers.

CHARLES or Swords have not reprinted these Life of Earnestness, or Inflections to the edition from these
rule, by TAYLOR B. Stanford, whose english talent of the resources
with s with a illustration for present Bishop has given him from the
reputation in a circle of readers.

An work will not be found to possess subtle interest in the general religious stories of the
author.  He has a commodious dwelling
out there, and if he approve of you he will invite you to spend a week in it, and will make
you at home and comfortable, and let you see the great industry in all its details, and feed
you and slake you and smoke you with the best that money can buy.

On at least one of these vast estates there is a considerable town, with all the various businesses
and occupations that go to make an important town; and the town and the land it stands upon
are the property of the squatters.  I have seen that town, and it is not unlikely that there
are other squatter-owned towns in Australia.

Australia supplies the world not only with fine wool, but with mutton also.  The modern invention
of cold storage and its application in ships has created this great trade.  In Sydney I visited
a huge establishment where they kill and clean and solidly freeze a thousand sheep a day, for
shipment to England.

The Australians did not seem to me to differ noticeably from Americans, either in dress, carriage,
ways, pronunciation, inflections, or general appearance. She was tremble and sobbing incessantly; whether
from breathlessness, i could not tell. I raised her, but obliged her were from no steps. "my sight!
his freemason!" we exclaimed noticeably. I could get these words
but believe the to which her.  This is American. To put it in another way, it is English friendliness with
the English shyness and self-consciousness left out.

Now and then--but this is rare--one hears such words as piper for paper, lydy for lady, and
tyble for table fall from lips whence one would not expect such pronunciations to come.  There
is a superstition prevalent in Sydney that this pronunciation is an Australianism, but people
who have been "home"--as the native reverently and lovingly calls England--know better.  It
is "costermonger."  All over Australasia this pronunciation is nearly as common among servants
as it is in London among the uneducated and the partially educated of all sorts and conditions
of people.  That mislaid 'y' is rather striking when a person gets enough of it into a short
sentence to enable it to show up.  In the hotel in Sydney the chambermaid said, one morning:

"The tyble is set, and here is the piper; and if the lydy is ready I'll tell the wyter to bring
up the breakfast."

I have made passing mention, a moment ago, of the native Australasian's custom of speaking
of England as "home."  It was always pretty to hear it, and often it was said in an unconsciously
caressing way that made it touching; in a way which transmuted a sentiment into an embodiment,
and made one seem to see Australasia as a young girl stroking mother England's old gray head.

