A "moderation" devised with the assent of the states was what they particularly insisted on.
In order, therefore, to gain the consent of the states, or rather to obtain it from them by
stealth, the regent artfully propounded the question to the provinces singly, and first of
all to those which possessed the least freedom, such as Artois, Namur, and Luxemburg.  Thus
she not only prevented one province encouraging another in opposition, but also gained this
advantage by it, that the freer provinces, such as Flanders and Brabant, which were prudently
reserved to the last, allowed themselves to be carried away by the example of the others. 
By a very illegal procedure the representatives of the towns were taken by surprise, and their
consent exacted before they could confer with their constituents, while complete silence was
imposed upon them with regard to the whole transaction.  By these means the regent obtained
the unconditional consent of some of the provinces to the "moderation," and, with a few slight
changes, that of other provinces.  Luxemburg and Namur subscribed it without scruple.  The
states of Artois simply added the condition that false informers should be subjected to a retributive
penalty; those of Hainault demanded that instead of confiscation of the estates, which directly
militated against their privileges, another discretionary punishment should be introduced.
Flanders called for the entire abolition of the Inquisition, and desired that the accused might
be secured in right of appeal to their own province.  The states of Brabant were outwitted
by the intrigues of the court.  Zealand, Holland, Utrecht, Guelders, and Friesland as being
provinces which enjoyed the most important privileges, and which, moreover, watched over them
with the greatest jealousy, were never asked for their opinion.  The provincial courts of judicature
had also been required to make a report on the projected amendment of the law, but we may well
suppose that it was unfavorable, as it never reached Spain. From the principal cause of this
"moderation," which, however, really deserved its name, we may form a judgment of the general
character of the edicts themselves.  "Sectarian writers," it ran, "the heads and teachers of
sects, as also those who conceal heretical meetings, or cause any other public scandal, shall
be punished with the gallows, and their estates, where the law of the province permit it, confiscated;
but if they abjure their errors, their punishment shall be commuted into decapitation with
the sword, and their effects shall be preserved to their families."  A cruel snare for parental
affection!  Less grievous heretics, it was further enacted, shall, if penitent, be pardoned;
and if impenitent shall be compelled to leave the country, without, however, forfeiting their
estates, unless by continuing to lead others astray they deprive themselves of the benefit
of this provision.  The Anabaptists, however, were expressly excluded from benefiting by this
clause; these, if they did not clear themselves by the most thorough repentance, were to forfeit
their possessions; and if, on the other hand, they relapsed after penitence, that is, were
backsliding heretics, they were to be put to death without mercy.  The greater regard for life
and property which is observable in this ordinance as compared with the edicts, and which we
might be tempted to ascribe to a change of intention in the Spanish ministry, was nothing more
than a compulsory step extorted by the determined opposition of the nobles.  So little, too,
were the people in the Netherlands satisfied by this "moderation," which fundamentally did
not remove a single abuse, that instead of "moderation" (mitigation), they indignantly called
it "moorderation," that is, murdering.

After the consent of the states had in this manner been extorted from them, the "moderation"
was submitted to the council of the state, and, after receiving their signatures, forwarded
to the king in Spain in order to receive from his ratification the force of law.

The embassy to Madrid, which had been agreed upon with the confederates, was at the outset
entrusted to the Marquis of Bergen, who, however, from a distrust of the present disposition
of the king, which was only too well grounded, and from reluctance to engage alone in so delicate
a business, begged for a coadjutor.

     [This Marquis of Bergen is to be distinguished from Count William
     of Bergen, who was among the first who subscribed the covenant.
     Vigi. ad Hopper, Letter VII.]

He obtained one in the Baron of Montigny, who had previously been employed in a similar duty,
and had discharged it with high credit. As, however, circumstances had since altered so much
that he had just anxiety as to his present reception in Madrid for his greater safety, he stipulated
with the duchess that she should write to the monarch previously; and that he, with his companion,
should, in the meanwhile, travel slowly enough to give time for the king's answer reaching
him en route.  His good genius wished, as it appeared, to save him from the terrible fate which
awaited him in Madrid, for his departure was delayed by an unexpected obstacle, the Marquis
of Bergen being disabled from setting out immediately through a wound which he received from
the blow of a tennis-ball.  At last, however, yielding to the pressing importunities of the
regent, who was anxious to expedite the business, he set out alone, not, as he hoped, to carry
the cause of his nation, but to die for it.

In the meantime the posture of affairs had changed so greatly in the Netherlands, the step
which the nobles had recently taken had so nearly brought on a complete rupture with the government,
that it seemed impossible for the Prince of Orange and his friends to maintain any longer the
intermediate and delicate position which they had hitherto held between the country and the
court, or to reconcile the contradictory duties to which it gave rise.  Great must have been
the restraint which, with their mode of thinking, they had to put on themselves not to take
part in this contest; much, too, must their natural love of liberty, their patriotism, and
their principles of toleration have suffered from the constraint which their official station
imposed upon them.  On the other hand, Philip's distrust, the little regard which now for a
long time had been paid to their advice, and the marked slights which the duchess publicly
put upon them, had greatly contributed to cool their zeal for the service, and to render irksome
the longer continuance of a part which they played with so much repugnance and with so little
thanks.  This feeling was strengthened by several intimations they received from Spain which
placed beyond doubt the great displeasure of the king at the petition of the nobles, and his
little satisfaction with their own behavior on that occasion, while they were also led to expect
that he was about to enter upon measures, to which, as favorable to the liberties of their
country, and for the most part friends or blood relations of the confederates; they could never
lend their countenance or support.  On the name which should be applied in Spain to the confederacy
of the nobles it principally depended what course they should follow for the future.  If the
petition should be called rebellion no alternative would be left them but either to come prematurely
to a dangerous explanation with the court, or to aid it in treating as enemies those with whom
they had both a fellow-feeling and a common interest.  This perilous alternative could only
be avoided by withdrawing entirely from public affairs; this plan they had once before practically
adopted, and under present circumstances it was something more than a simple expedient.  The
whole nation had their eyes upon them.  An unlimited confidence in their integrity, and the
universal veneration for their persons, which closely bordered on idolatry, would ennoble the
cause which they might make their own and ruin that which they should abandon.  Their share
in the administration of the state, though it were nothing more than nominal, kept the opposite
party in check; while they attended the senate violent measures were avoided because their
continued presence still favored some expectations of succeeding by gentle means.  The withholding
of their approbation, even if it did not proceed from their hearts, dispirited the faction,
which, on the contrary, would exert its full strength so soon as it could reckon even distantly
on obtaining so weighty a sanction.  The very measures of the government which, if they came
through their hands, were certain of a favorable reception and issue, would without them prove
suspected and futile; even the royal concessions, if they were not obtained by the mediation
of these friends of the people, would fail of the chief part of their efficacy.  Besides, their
retirement from public affairs would deprive the regent of the benefit of their advice at a
time when counsel was most indispensable to her; it would, moreover, leave the preponderance
with a party which, blindly dependent on the court, and ignorant of the peculiarities of republican
character, would neglect nothing to aggravate the evil, and to drive to extremity the already
exasperated mind of the public.

All these motives (and it is open to every one, according to his good or bad opinion of the
prince, to say which was the most influential) tended alike to move him to desert the regent,
and to divest himself of all share in public affairs.  An opportunity for putting this resolve
into execution soon presented itself.  The prince had voted for the immediate promulgation
of the newly-revised edicts; but the regent, following the suggestion of her privy council,
had determined to transmit them first to the king.  "I now see clearly," he broke out with
well-acted vehemence, "that all the advice which I give is distrusted.  The king requires no
servants whose loyalty he is determined to doubt; and far be it from me to thrust my services
upon a sovereign who is unwilling to receive them.  Better, therefore, for him and me that
I withdraw from public affairs."  Count Horn expressed himself nearly to the same effect. 
Egmont requested permission to visit the baths of Aix-la- Chapelle, the use of which had been
prescribed to him by his physician, although (as it is stated in his accusation) he appeared
health itself. The regent, terrified at the consequences which must inevitably follow this
step, spoke sharply to the prince.  "If neither my representations, nor the general welfare
can prevail upon you, so far as to induce you to relinquish this intention, let me advise you
to be more careful, at least, of your own reputation.  Louis of Nassau is your brother; he
and Count Brederode, the heads of the confederacy, have publicly been your guests.  The petition
is in substance identical with your own representations in the council of state.  If you now
suddenly desert the cause of your king will it not be universally said that you favor the conspiracy?"
We do not find it anywhere stated whether the prince really withdrew at this time from the
council of state; at all events, if he did, he must soon have altered his mind, for shortly
after he appears again in public transactions.  Egmont allowed himself to be overcome by the
remonstrances of the regent; Horn alone actually withdrew himself to one of his estates,--[Where
be remained three months inactive.]--with the resolution of never more serving either emperor
or king.  Meanwhile the Gueux had dispersed themselves through the provinces, and spread everywhere
the most favorable reports of their success.  According to their assertions, religious freedom
was finally assured; and in order to confirm their statements they helped themselves, where
the truth failed, with falsehood.  For example, they produced a forged letter of the Knights
of the Fleece, in which the latter were made solemnly to declare that for the future no one
need fear imprisonment, or banishment, or death on account of religion, unless he also committed
a political crime; and even in that case the confederates alone were to be his judges; and
this regulation was to be in force until the king, with the consent and advice of the states
of the realm, should otherwise dispose.  Earnestly as the knights applied themselves upon the
first information of the fraud to rescue the nation from their delusion, still it had already
in this short interval done good service to the faction.  If there are truths whose effect
is limited to a single instant, then inventions which last so long can easily assume their
place.  Besides, the report, however false, was calculated both to awaken distrust between
the regent and the knights, and to support the courage of the Protestants by fresh hopes, while
it also furnished those who were meditating innovation an appearance of right, which, however
unsubstantial they themselves knew it to be, served as a colorable pretext for their proceedings.
Quickly as this delusion was dispelled, still, in the short space of time that it obtained
belief, it had occasioned so many extravagances, had introduced so much irregularity and license,
that a return to the former state of things became impossible, and continuance in the course
already commenced was rendered necessary as well by habit as by despair. On the very first
news of this happy result the fugitive Protestants had returned to their homes, which they
had so unwillingly abandoned; those who had been in concealment came forth from their hiding-places;
those who had hitherto paid homage to the new religion in their hearts alone, emboldened by
these pretended acts of toleration, now gave in their adhesion to it publicly and decidedly.
The name of the "Gueux" was extolled in all the provinces; they were called the pillars of
religion and liberty; their party increased daily, and many of the merchants began to wear
their insignia.  The latter made an alteration in the "Gueux" penny, by introducing two travellers'
staffs, laid crosswise, to intimate that they stood prepared and ready at any instant to forsake
house and hearth for the sake of religion.  The Gueux league, in short, had now given to things
an entirely different form.  The murmurs of the people, hitherto impotent and despised, as
being the cries of individuals, had, now that they were concentrated, become formidable; and
had gained power, direction, and firmness through union.  Every one who was rebelliously disposed
now looked on himself as the member of a venerable and powerful body, and believed that by
carrying his own complaints to the general stock of discontent he secured the free expression
of them.  To be called an important acquisition to the league flattered the vain; to be lost,
unnoticed, and irresponsible in the crowd was an inducement to the timid.  The face which the
confederacy showed to the nation was very unlike that which it had turned to the court.  But
had its objects been the purest, had it really been as well disposed towards the throne as
it wished to appear, still the multitude would have regarded only what was illegal in its proceedings,
and upon them its better intentions would have been entirely lost.

                            PUBLIC PREACHING.

No moment could be more favorable to the Huguenots and the German Protestants than the present
to seek a market for their dangerous commodity in the Netherlands.  Accordingly, every considerable
town now swarmed with suspicious arrivals, masked spies, and the apostles of every description
of heresy.  Of the religious parties, which had sprung up by secession from the ruling church,
three chiefly had made considerable progress in the provinces.  Friesland and the adjoining
districts were overrun by the Anabaptists, who, however, as the most indigent, without organization
and government, destitute of military resources, and moreover at strife amongst themselves,
awakened the least apprehension.  Of far more importance were the Calvanists, who prevailed
in the southern provinces, and above all in Flanders, who were powerfully supported by their
neighbors the Huguenots, the republic of Geneva, the Swiss Cantons, and part of Germany, and
whose opinions, with the exception of a slight difference, were also held by the throne in
England.  They were also the most numerous party, especially among the merchants and common
citizens.  The Huguenots, expelled from France, had been the chief disseminators of the tenets
of this party.  The Lutherans were inferior both in numbers and wealth, but derived weight
from having many adherents among the nobility.  They occupied, for the most part, the eastern
portion of the Netherlands, which borders on Germany, and were also to be found in some of
the northern territories.  Some of the most powerful princes of Germany were their allies;
and the religious freedom of that empire, of which by the Burgundian treaty the Netherlands
formed an integral part, was claimed by them with some appearance of right.  These three religious
denominations met together in Antwerp, where the crowded population concealed them, and the
mingling of all nations favored liberty.  They had nothing in common, except an equally inextinguishable
hatred of popery, of the Inquisition in particular, and of the Spanish government, whose instrument
it was; while, on the other hand, they watched each other with a jealousy which kept their
zeal in exercise, and prevented the glowing ardor of fanaticism from waxing dull.

