The general rule is observed by our invisible messengers mentioned on the 169th page, while
they are controlling the spirits of the compositors, that they let them commit such errata
as disturb the sense on such pages, on which the reader should stop and reflect upon the connexion
of matters. An astonishing lesson was given, when I received the order to stop the composition
of the Fourth Treatise at the end of the 168th page. The manuscript for that Treatise contains
85 pages, and the 168th page of this book ends in the middle of the 34th page of manuscript.
The spirit who made this provision exhorts powerfully readers to digest the 168 pages and to
prepare for what follows. I did not know, what our invisible agents intended to put on the
168th page, till I saw in the proof sheet the six oxen, the first of whom is Joseph Ox, on
the 74th place of our catalogue. These oxen are supporting the mysteries on the 80th and 81st
places of our catalogue, and those two mysteries are in the 4th line of the 168th page. This
provision tells that you should pay peculiar attention to the contents from the 74th to the
81st page of this book, and you will find amongst the Americans those who furnish as great
assistance to the Beast with ten horns as the six oxen on the 168th page. But on the 21st line
of the 82d page, my interpretation[AG] commences, and the omission in the midst of the 83d
page exhorts you that you should reflect upon the "Sect of Adventurists" mentioned in the 9th
line from the bottom of the 83d page. In my manuscript were only Adventists. But I tell you
that the young boy who set in type the largest portion of this book, was a peculiar medium.
Noyse and Himes and all those whom they represent belong to the sect of Adventurists who are
the greatest supporters of Popery.

All other marvellous things you will hear in our Convention commencing November 1, 1859, on
the Feast of All Saints.

My address is page 124 of this book.

Set in type June 27th, 1859.

A. "DEVELOPMMENTS" changed to "DEVELOPMENTS".
B. "WOHLE" changed to "WHOLE".
C. "rightousness" changed to "righteousness".
D. "uderstanding" changed to "understanding".
E. "Febuary" changed to "February".
F. "perfetion" changed to "perfection".
G. "wickednes" changed to "wickedness".
H. "lenghth" changed to "length".
I. "axactly" changed to "exactly".
J. "remaks" changed to "remarks".
K. "Garrsion" changed to "Garrison".
L. "Gosple" changed to "Gospel".
M. "Jscariot" changed to "Iscariot".
N. "recived" changed to "received".
O. Opening quotation mark added.
P. "oppresion" changed to "oppression".
Q. "nead" changed to "need".
R. "thougt" changed to "thought".
S. "messsage" changed to "message".
T. Closing parenthesis added.
U. "obolition" changed to "abolition".
V. "languuages" changed to "languages".
W. Closing quotation mark added.
X. "fulfiilled" changed to "fulfilled".
Y. "babarian" changed to "barbarian".
Z. "mangement" changed to "management".
AA. "excommunicatiom" changed to "excommunication".
AB. "poseessions" changed to "possessions".
AC. "Wisdon" changed to "Wisdom".
AD. "Commnuity" changed to "Community".
AE. "oportunity" changed to "opportunity".
AF. "provisionaly" changed to "provisionally".
AG. "interpre-pretation" changed to "interpretation" (original word
    spanned two lines at hypen).