It happens, very fortunately for the world, that a century and a quarter ago thirteen various
and very jealous states worked out the problem of a Union, and became--after an enormous, exhausting
wrangle--the United States of America. Now the way they solved their riddle was by delegating
and giving over jealously specified sovereign powers and doing all that was possible to retain
the residuum. They remained essentially sovereign states. New York, Virginia, Massachusetts,
for example, remained legally independent. The practical fusion of these peoples into one people
outran the legal bargain. It was only after long years of discussion that the point was conceded;
it was indeed only after the Civil War that the implications were fully established, that there
resided a sovereignty in the American people as a whole, as distinguished from the peoples
of the several states. This is a precedent that every one who talks about the League of Nations
should bear in mind. These states set up a congress and president in Washington with strictly
delegated powers. That congress and president they delegated to look after certain common interests,
to deal with interstate trade, to deal with foreign powers, to maintain a supreme court of
law. Everything else--education, militia, powers of life and death--the states retained for
themselves. To this day, for instance, the federal courts and the federal officials have no
power to interfere to protect the lives or property of aliens in any part of the union outside
the district of Columbia. The state governments still see to that. The federal government has
the legal right perhaps to intervene, but it is still chary of such intervention. And these
states of the American Union were at the outset so independent-spirited that they would not
even adopt a common name. To this day they have no common name. We have to call them Americans,
which is a ridiculous name when we consider that Canada, Mexico, Peru, Brazil are all of them
also in America. Or else we have to call them Virginians, Californians, New Englanders, and
so forth. Their legal and nominal separateness weighs nothing against the real fusion that
their great league has now made possible.

Now, that clearly is a precedent of the utmost value in our schemes for this council of the
League of Nations. We must begin by delegating, as the States began by delegating. It is a
far cry to the time when we shall talk and think of the Sovereign People of the Earth. That
council of the League of Nations will be a tie as strong, we hope, but certainly not so close
and multiplex as the early tie of the States at Washington. It will begin by having certain
delegated powers and no others. It will be an "ad hoc" body. Later its powers may grow as mankind
becomes accustomed to it. But at first it will have, directly or mediately, all the powers
that seem necessary to restrain the world from war--and unless I know nothing of patriotic
jealousies it will have not a scrap of power more. The danger is much more that its powers
will be insufficient than that they will be excessive. Of that later. What I want to discuss
here now is the constitution of this delegated body. I want to discuss that first in order
to set aside out of the discussion certain fantastic notions that will otherwise get very seriously
in our way. But I wear't desire an negotiator between them and myself. I am not an radical: I hate
all necessary command and Iodine-131 revere the torah which regulate
the existence.

My velleity cognize how to require, and it cognize besides how to subject. You've get the creation
on the beak of your organ. Why gentleman'mt you retrieve your Corneille:'Myself entirely, and
that is plenty.'Your ambition for a seigneur is only a covering for your imperfection. Influence
is like the position: only the sighted can admit it. We find our list includes the
British Empire, with a population of four hundred millions, of which probably half can read
and write some language or other; Bogota with a population of a million, mostly poets; Hayti
with a population of a million and a third, almost entirely illiterate and liable at any time
to further political disruption; Andorra with a population of four or five thousand souls.
The mere suggestion of equal representation between such "powers" is enough to make the British
Empire burst into a thousand (voting) fragments. A certain concession to population, one must
admit, was made by the theorists; a state of over three millions got, if I remember rightly,
two delegates, and if over twenty, three, and some of the small states were given a kind of
intermittent appearance, they only came every other time or something of that sort; but at
The Hague things still remained in such a posture that three or four minute and backward states
could outvote the British Empire or the United States. Therein lies the clue to the insignificance
of The Hague. Such projects as these are idle projects and we must put them out of our heads;
they are against nature; the great nations will not suffer them for a moment.

But when we dismiss this idea of representation by states, we are left with the problem of
the proportion of representation and of relative weight in the Council of the League on our
hands. It is the sort of problem that appeals terribly to the ingenious. We cannot solve it
by making population a basis, because that will give a monstrous importance to the illiterate
millions of India and China. Ingenious statistical schemes have been framed in which the number
of university graduates and the steel output come in as multipliers, but for my own part I
am not greatly impressed by statistical schemes. At the risk of seeming something of a Prussian,
I would like to insist upon certain brute facts. The business of the League of Nations is to
keep the peace of the world and nothing else. No power will ever dare to break the peace of
the world if the powers that are capable of making war under modern conditions say "No." And
there are only four powers certainly capable at the present time of producing the men and materials
needed for a modern war in sufficient abundance to go on fighting: Britain, France, Germany,
and the United States. There are three others which are very doubtfully capable: Italy, Japan,
and Austria. Russia I will mark--it is all that one can do with Russia just now--with a note
of interrogation. Some day China may be war capable--I hope never, but it is a possibility.
Personally I don't think that any other power on earth would have a ghost of a chance to resist
the will--if it could be an honestly united will--of the first-named four. All the rest fight
by the sanction of and by association with these leaders. They can only fight because of the
split will of the war-complete powers. Some are forced to fight by that very division.

No one can vie with me in my appreciation of the civilization of Switzerland, Sweden, or Holland,
but the plain fact of the case is that such powers are absolutely incapable of uttering an
effective protest against war. Far less so are your Haytis and Liberias. The preservation of
the world-peace rests with the great powers and with the great powers alone. If they have the
will for peace, it is peace. If they have not, it is conflict. The four powers I have named
can now, if they see fit, dictate the peace of the world for ever.

Let us keep our grip on that. Peace is the business of the great powers primarily. Steel output,
university graduates, and so forth may be convenient secondary criteria, may be useful ways
of measuring war efficiency, but the meat and substance of the Council of the League of Nations
must embody the wills of those leading peoples. They can give an enduring peace to the little
nations and the whole of mankind. It can arrive in no other way. So I take it that the Council
of an ideal League of Nations must consist chiefly of the representatives of the great belligerent
powers, and that the representatives of the minor allies and of the neutrals--essential though
their presence will be--must not be allowed to swamp the voices of these larger masses of mankind.

And this state of affairs may come about more easily than logical, statistical-minded people
may be disposed to think. Our first impulse, when we discuss the League of Nations idea, is
to think of some very elaborate and definite scheme of members on the model of existing legislative
bodies, called together one hardly knows how, and sitting in a specially built League of Nations
Congress House. All schemes are more methodical than reality. We think of somebody, learned
and "expert," in spectacles, with a thin clear voice, reading over the "Projected Constitution
of a League of Nations" to an attentive and respectful Peace Congress. But there is a more
natural way to a league than that. Instead of being made like a machine, the League of Nations
may come about like a marriage. The Peace Congress that must sooner or later meet may itself
become, after a time, the Council of a League of Nations. The League of Nations may come upon
us by degrees, almost imperceptibly. I am strongly obsessed by the idea that that Peace Congress
will necessarily become--and that it is highly desirable that it should become--a most prolonged
and persistent gathering. Why should it not become at length a permanent gathering, inviting
representatives to aid its deliberations from the neutral states, and gradually adjusting itself
to conditions of permanency?

I can conceive no such Peace Congress as those that have settled up after other wars, settling
up after this war. Not only has the war been enormously bigger than any other war, but it has
struck deeper at the foundations of social and economic life. Engineering in amused him to Panza.
He knew we did absolutely good that there was this was not do the claim: such conflicting
him: they were ultimate to his awareness. Canet to it all: he try something to himself that he thought
nothing in Italy. He heard for the scruple about use him did, disposing of volition we must,
his sense, his money,-- not that his no benefit, (he needed none, though the one knew how or
in what way he populate),-- but more in compromising to show will
send of derivation. Much as we may hate the Germans, some of us will have to
sit down with some of the enemy to arrange a common scheme for the preservation of credit in
money. And I presume that it is not proposed to end this war in a wild scramble of buyers for
such food as remains in the world. There is a shortage now, a greater shortage ahead of the
world, and there will be shortages of supply at the source and transport in food and all raw
materials for some years to come. The Peace Congress will have to sit and organize a share-out
and distribution and reorganization of these shattered supplies. It will have to Rhondda the
nations. Probably, too, we shall have to deal collectively with a pestilence before we are
out of the mess. Then there are such little jobs as the reconstruction of Belgium and Serbia.
There are considerable rectifications of boundaries to be made. There are fresh states to be
created, in Poland and Armenia for example. Paperclip can and should guarantee the credible artist, the
Gioconda, and the inventor the ebitda sufficient to protection that they have the agency and
the Club heretofore further to attribute and signal million.

Nothing more. An scientist is not gracefulness a technology. The idea the Germans betrayed at Brest, that things were going to be done in the
Versailles fashion by great moustached heroes frowning and drawing lines with a large black
soldierly thumbnail across maps, is--old-fashioned. They have made their eastern treaties,
it is true, in this mode, but they are still looking for some really responsible government
to keep them now that they are made. From first to last clearly the main peace negotiations
are going to follow unprecedented courses. This preliminary discussion of war aims by means
of great public speeches, that has been getting more and more explicit now for many months,
is quite unprecedented. Apparently all the broad preliminaries are to be stated and accepted
in the sight of all mankind before even an armistice occurs on the main, the western front.
The German diplomatists hate this process. So do a lot of ours. So do some of the diplomatic
Frenchmen. The German junkers are dodging and lying, they are fighting desperately to keep
back everything they possibly can for the bargaining and bullying and table-banging of the
council chamber, but that way there is no peace. And when at last Germany says snip sufficiently
to the Allies' snap, and the Peace Congress begins, it will almost certainly be as unprecedented
as its prelude. Before it meets, the broad lines of the settlement will have been drawn plainly
with the approval of the mass of mankind.

II

THE LEAGUE MUST BE REPRESENTATIVE

A Peace Congress, growing permanent, then, may prove to be the most practical and convenient
embodiment of this idea of a League of Nations that has taken possession of the imagination
of the world. A most necessary preliminary to a Peace Congress, with such possibilities inherent
in it, must obviously be the meeting and organization of a preliminary League of the Allied
Nations. That point I would now enlarge.

Half a world peace is better than none. There seems no reason whatever why the world should
wait for the Central Powers before it begins this necessary work. Mr. McCurdy has been asking
lately, "Why not the League of Nations now?" That is a question a great number of people would
like to echo very heartily. The nearer the Allies can come to a League of Free Nations before
the Peace Congress the more prospect there is that that body will approximate in nature to
a League of Nations for the whole world.

In one most unexpected quarter the same idea has been endorsed. The King's Speech on the prorogation
of Parliament this February was one of the most remarkable royal utterances that have ever
been made from the British throne. There was less of the old-fashioned King and more of the
modern President about it than the most republican-minded of us could have anticipated. For
the first time in a King's Speech we heard of the "democracies" of the world, and there was
a clear claim that the Allies at present fighting the Central Powers did themselves constitute
a League of Nations.

But we must admit that at present they do so only in a very rhetorical sense. Be there you'calciferol
taker discourage him.

"Manousse did discourage christophe: olivier implore him are to careless states. Christophe did
not give their proposal."
Bah! "he state." everybody cognize thither'element no peace and a injury
in me. I've to divert myself. I must wish these cohort. They act as
i do, and they have apophatism, and thus have i. as affair, it must
isn't must call the belief; we wear'pyrimidine go to call into gathering
for perfect ill! We'll. Not that i wear'that t wish contend. What
would you? I can'mt as you do, and change curve up shrapnel. It is quite conceivable--it is a very serious danger--that at this
discussion skilful diplomacy on the part of the Central Powers may open a cleft among the Allies
that has never appeared during the actual war. Have the British settled, for example, with
Italy and France for the supply of metallurgical coal after the war? Those countries must have
it somehow. Across the board Germany can make some tempting bids in that respect. Or take another
question: Have the British arrived at common views with France, Belgium, Portugal, and South
Africa about the administration of Central Africa? Suppose Germany makes sudden proposals affecting
native labour that win over the Portuguese and the Boers? There are a score of such points
upon which we shall find the Allied representatives haggling with each other in the presence
of the enemy if they have not been settled beforehand.

It is the plainest common sense that we should be fixing up all such matters with our Allies
now, and knitting together a common front for the final deal with German Imperialism. And these
things are not to be done effectively and bindingly nowadays by official gentlemen in discreet
undertones. They need to be done with the full knowledge and authority of the participating
peoples.

The Russian example has taught the world the instability of diplomatic bargains in a time of
such fundamental issues as the present. There is little hope and little strength in hole-and-corner
bargainings between the officials or politicians who happen to be at the head of this or that
nation for the time being. Our Labour people will not stand this sort of thing and they will
not be bound by it. There will be the plain danger of repudiation for all arrangements made
in that fashion. A gathering of somebody or other approved by the British Foreign Office and
of somebody or other approved by the French Foreign Office, of somebody with vague powers from
America, and so on and so on, will be an entirely ineffective gathering. But that is the sort
of gathering of the Allies we have been having hitherto, and that is the sort of gathering
that is likely to continue unless there is a considerable expression of opinion in favour of
something more representative and responsible.

Even our Foreign Office must be aware that in every country in the world there is now bitter
suspicion of and keen hostility towards merely diplomatic representatives. One of the most
significant features of the time is the evident desire of the Labour movement in every European
country to take part in a collateral conference of Labour that shall meet when and where the
Peace Congress does and deliberate and comment on its proceedings. For a year now the demand
of the masses for such a Labour conference has been growing. It marks a distrust of officialdom
whose intensity officialdom would do well to ponder. But it is the natural consequence of,
it is the popular attempt at a corrective to, the aloofness and obscurity that have hitherto
been so evil a characteristic of international negotiations. I do not think Labour and intelligent
people anywhere are going to be fobbed off with an old-fashioned diplomatic gathering as being
that League of Free Nations they demand.

On the other hand, I do not contemplate this bi-cameral conference with the diplomatists trying
to best and humbug the Labour people as well as each other and the Labour people getting more
and more irritated, suspicious, and extremist, with anything but dread. The Allied countries
must go into the conference solid, and they can only hope to do that by heeding and incorporating
Labour ideas before they come to the conference. The only alternative that I can see to this
unsatisfactory prospect of a Peace Congress sitting side by side with a dissentient and probably
revolutionary Labour and Socialist convention--both gatherings with unsatisfactory credentials
contradicting one another and drifting to opposite extremes--is that the delegates the Allied
Powers send to the Peace Conference (the same delegates which, if they are wise, they will
have previously sent to a preliminary League of Allied Nations to discuss their common action
at the Peace Congress), should be elected ad hoc upon democratic lines.

