She had seen him once since Fate had made her a widow; but then she had been but a few days
a widow, and his life had at that moment been in strange jeopardy. There had certainly been
no time then for other love than that which the circumstances and the sorrow of the hour demanded
from their mutual friendship. From that day, from the first moment in which she had heard of
his arrest, every thought, every effort of her mind had been devoted to his affairs. So great
was his peril and so strange, that it almost wiped out from her mind the remembrance of her
own condition. Should they hang him,--undoubtedly she would die. Such a termination to all
her aspirations for him whom she had selected as her god upon earth would utterly crush her.
She had borne much, but she could never bear that. Should he escape, but escape ingloriously;--ah,
then he should know what the devotion of a woman could do for a man! But if he should leave
his prison with flying colours, and come forth a hero to the world, how would it be with her
then? She could foresee and understand of what nature would be the ovation with which he would
be greeted. She had already heard what the Duchess was doing and saying. She knew how eager
on his behalf were Lord and Lady Cantrip. She discussed the matter daily with her sister-in-law,
and knew what her brother thought. If the acquittal were perfect, there would certainly be
an ovation,--in which, was it not certain to her, that she would be forgotten? And she heard
much, too, of Madame Goesler. And now there came the news. Madame Goesler had gone to Prague,
to Cracow,--and where not?--spending her wealth, employing her wits, bearing fatigue, openly
before the world on this man's behalf; and had done so successfully. She had found this evidence
of the key, and now because the tracings of a key had been discovered by a woman, people were
ready to believe that he was innocent, as to whose innocence she, Laura Kennedy, would have
been willing to stake her own life from the beginning of the affair!

Why had it not been her lot to go to Prague? Would not she have drunk up Esil, or swallowed
a crocodile against any she-Laertes that would have thought to rival and to parallel her great
love? Would not she have piled up new Ossas, had the opportunity been given her? Womanlike
she had gone to him in her trouble,--had burst through his prison doors, had thrown herself
on his breast, and had wept at his feet. But of what avail had been that? This strange female,
this Moabitish woman, had gone to Prague, and had found a key,--and everybody said that the
thing was done! How she hated the strange woman, and remembered all the evil things that had
been said of the intruder! She told herself over and over again that had it been any one else
than this half-foreigner, this German Jewess, this intriguing unfeminine upstart, she could
have borne it. Did not all the world know that the woman for the last two years had been the
mistress of that old doting Duke who was now dead? Had one ever heard who was her father or
who was her mother? Had it not always been declared of her that she was a pushing, dangerous,
scheming creature? And then she was old enough to be his mother, though by some Medean tricks
known to such women, she was able to postpone,--not the ravages of age,--but the manifestation
of them to the eyes of the world. In all of which charges poor Lady Laura wronged her rival
foully;--in that matter of age especially, for, as it happened, Madame Goesler was by some
months the younger of the two. But Lady Laura was a blonde, and trouble had told upon her outwardly,
as it is wont to do upon those who are fair-skinned, and, at the same time, high-hearted.