Cestius presided over the Roman games. His name is not to be found in history; but it is rendered
illustrious by his tomb. The massive pyramid which encloses his ashes, defends his death from
that oblivion which has entirely effaced his life. Aurelian, fearing that this pyramid might
be employed as a fortress to attack Rome, has caused it to be enclosed within the walls which
are yet standing, not as useless ruins, but as the actual enclosure of the modern city. It
is said that the form of the pyramid is in imitation of the flame which ascends from a funeral
pyre. It is certain that this mysterious form attracts the eye and gives a picturesque aspect
to every perspective of which it forms a part. Opposite this pyramid is Mount Testaceo, under
which there are extremely cool grottos where feasts are given in summer. The festivals of Rome
are not disturbed at the sight of tombs. The pines and the cypresses which are perceived at
various distances in the smiling country of Italy, are also pregnant with solemn remembrances;
and this contrast produces the same effect as the verses of Horace,

                             ----moriture Delli
     ------------------------------------------
     Linquenda tellus, et domus, et placens
     Uxor,[18]

in the midst of poetry consecrated to every enjoyment upon earth. The ancients have always
felt that the idea of death has its pleasures: it is recalled by love and by festivals, and
the most lively emotion of joy seems to increase even from the idea of the shortness of life.

Corinne and Nelville returned from the walk among the tombs, along the banks of the Tiber.--Once
it was covered with vessels and bordered with palaces; once even its inundations were regarded
as presages; it was the prophetic river, the tutelary Deity of Rome[19]. At present, one would
say that it rolled its tide through a land of shadows; so solitary does it seem, so livid do
its waters appear. The finest monuments of the arts, the most admirable statues have been thrown
into the Tiber, and are concealed beneath its waves. Who knows whether, in order to find them,
the river will not one day be turned from its bed? But when we think that the masterpieces
of human genius are perhaps there before us, and that a more piercing eye would behold them
through the waves--we feel that indescribable emotion which incessantly arises at Rome, under
various forms, and creates a society for the mind in physical objects which every where else
are dumb.

FOOTNOTES:

[18]
     Dellius thou must die---------------------
     Thou must quit thy land, thy home, and thy beloved wife.

[19] PLIN. Hist. Natur. L. iii. Tiberis ... quamlibet magnorum navium ex Italo mari capax,
rerum in toto orbe nascentium mercator placidissimus, pluribus probe solus quam ceteri in omnibus
terris amnes accolitur aspiciturque villis. Nullique fluviorum minus licet, inclusis utrinque
lateribus: nec tamen ipse pugnat, quamquam creber ac subitis incrementis, et nusquam magis
aquis quam in ipsa urbe stagnantibus. Quin imo vates intelligitur potius ac monitor auctu semper
religiosus verius quam sævus.

Chapter iii.

Raphael has said that modern Rome was almost entirely built with the ruins of the ancient city,
and it is certain that we cannot take a step here without being struck by some relics of antiquity.
We perceive the eternal walls, to use the expression of Pliny, through the work of the later
centuries; the Roman edifices almost all bear a historical stamp; in them may be remarked,
if we may so express it, the physiognomy of ages. From the Etruscans to our days, from that
people, more ancient than the Romans themselves, and who resembled the Egyptians by the solidity
of their works and the fantastical nature of their designs, from that people to Chevalier Bernini,
an artist whose style resembles that of the Italian poets of the seventeenth century, we may
observe the human mind at Rome, in the different characters of the arts, the edifices and the
ruins. The middle ages, and the brilliant century of the Medici, re-appear before our eyes
in their works, and this study of the past in objects present to our sight, penetrates us with
the genius of the times. It was believed that Rome had formerly a mysterious name which was
only known to a few adepts; it seems that it is yet necessary to be initiated into the secret
of this city. It is not simply an assemblage of habitations, it is the history of the world,
figured by divers emblems and represented under various forms.

Corinne agreed with Lord Nelville that they should go and visit together, the edifices of modern
Rome, and reserve for another opportunity the admirable collections of pictures and statues
which it contains. Perhaps, without accounting for it to herself, she desired to put off till
the most distant day possible, those objects which people cannot dispense with seeing at Rome;
for who has ever quitted it without having contemplated the Apollo Belvedere and the pictures
of Raphael? This guarantee, weak as it was, that Oswald should not leave her, pleased her imagination.
Is there not an element of pride some one will ask, in endeavouring to retain the object of
our love by any other means than the real sentiment itself? I really do not know; but the more
we love, the less we trust to the sentiment we inspire; and whatever may be the cause which
secures the presence of the object who is dear to us, we always embrace it joyfully. There
is often much vanity in a certain species of boldness, and if charms, generally admired, like
those of Corinne, possess a real advantage, it is because they permit us to place our pride
to the account of the sentiment we feel rather than to that which we inspire.

Corinne and Nelville began their observations by the most remarkable of the numerous churches
of Rome--they are all decorated with ancient magnificence; but something gloomy and fantastical
is mingled with that beautiful marble and those festival ornaments which have been taken from
the Pagan temples. Pillars of porphyry and granite were so numerous in Rome that they have
lavishly distributed them, scarcely considering them of any value. At St John Lateran, that
church so famous for the councils that have been held in it, are found such a quantity of marble
pillars that many of them have been covered with a cement of plaster to make pilasters, so
indifferent have they become to these riches from their multitude.

Some of these pillars were in the tomb of Adrian, others at the Capitol; these latter still
bear on their capitals the figures of the geese which saved the Roman people. Some of these
pillars support Gothic, and others Arabian ornaments. The urn of Agrippa conceals the ashes
of a Pope; for even the dead have yielded place to other dead, and the tombs have almost as
often changed their masters as the abodes of the living.

Near St John Lateran is the holy stair-case, transported, it is said, from Jerusalem to Rome.
It may only be ascended kneeling. Cæsar himself, and Claudius also, mounted on their knees
the stair-case which conducted to the Temple of the Capitoline Jove. On one side of St John
Lateran is the font where it is said that Constantine was baptised.--In the middle of the square
is seen an obelisk, which is perhaps the most ancient monument in the world--an obelisk cotemporary
with the Trojan war!--an obelisk which the barbarous Cambyses respected so much that in honour
of it he put a stop to the conflagration of a city!--an obelisk for which a king pledged the
life of his only son!--The Romans have, miraculously, brought this pillar to Italy from the
lowest part of Egypt.--They turned the Nile from its course in order that it might seek it,
and transport it to the sea. This obelisk is still covered with hieroglyphics which have preserved
their secret during so many ages, and which to this day defy the most learned researches. The
Indians, the Egyptians, the antiquity of antiquity, might perhaps be revealed to us by these
signs.--The wonderful charm of Rome is not only the real beauty of its monuments; but the interest
which it inspires by exciting thought; and this kind of interest increases every day with each
new study.

One of the most singular churches of Rome, is that of St Paul: its exterior is like a badly
built barn, and the interior is ornamented with eighty pillars of so fine a marble and so exquisite
a make, that one would believe they belonged to an Athenian temple described by Pausanias.
Cicero said--We are surrounded by the vestiges of history,--if he said so then, what shall
we say now?

The pillars, the statues, the bas-reliefs of ancient Rome, are so lavished in the churches
of the modern city, that there is one (St Agnes) where bas-reliefs, turned, serve for the steps
of a stair-case, without any one having taken the trouble to examine what they represented.
What an astonishing aspect would ancient Rome offer now, if the marble pillars and the statues
had been left in the same place where they were found! The ancient city would still have remained
standing almost entire--but would the men of our day dare to walk in it?

The palaces of the great lords are extremely vast, of an architecture often very fine, and
always imposing: but the interior ornaments are rarely tasteful; we do not find in them even
an idea of those elegant apartments which the finished enjoyments of social life have given
rise to elsewhere. These vast abodes of the Roman princes are empty and silent; the lazy inhabitants
of these superb palaces retire into a few small chambers unperceived, and leave strangers to
survey their magnificent galleries where the finest pictures of the age of Leo X. are collected
together. The great Roman lords of the present day, are as unacquainted with the pompous luxury
of their ancestors, as these ancestors themselves were with the austere virtues of the Roman
republic. The country houses convey still more the idea of this solitude, of this indifference
of the possessors in the midst of the most admirable abodes in the world. People may walk in
these immense gardens without suspecting that they have a master. The grass grows in the middle
of the walks, and in these very walks are trees fantastically cut according to the ancient
taste that prevailed in France.--What a singular whimsicality is this neglect of the necessary,
and affectation of the useless!--But one is often surprised at Rome, and in the greater part
of the other cities of Italy, at the taste of the Italians for extravagant ornaments,--they
who have incessantly before their eyes the noble simplicity of the antique. They love what
is brilliant, much better than what is elegant and commodious. They have in every instance,
the advantages and the inconveniences of not living habitually in society. Their luxury is
rather that of the imagination, than the luxury of actual enjoyment;--isolated as they are
among themselves, they cannot dread the spirit of ridicule, which seldom penetrates at Rome
into domestic secrecy; and often, in contrasting the interior with the exterior of their palaces,
one would say, that the greater part of the Italian nobility arrange their dwellings more to
dazzle the passers-by than to receive their friends.

After having surveyed the churches and the palaces, Corinne conducted Oswald to the villa Mellini,
a solitary garden, without any other ornament than its magnificent trees. From here is seen,
at a distance, the chain of the Appenines; the transparency of the air colours these mountains
and throws them forward in the perspective, giving them a most picturesque appearance. Oswald
and Corinne remained in this spot to enjoy the charms of the sky and the tranquillity of nature.
It is impossible to form an idea of this singular tranquillity without having lived in Southern
countries. On a hot day there is not felt the lightest breath of wind. The feeblest blade of
grass is perfectly still, and the animals themselves partake of the indolence which the fine
weather inspires: in the middle of the day, you neither hear the hum of flies, the chirping
of grasshoppers, nor the song of birds; no object fatigues itself with useless and trifling
agitation; all sleep till storm or the passions awaken the vehemence of nature, who then rushes
with impetuosity from her profound repose.

There are in the gardens of Rome, a great number of trees clad in perennial green, which heighten
the illusion produced by the mildness of the climate during winter. Pines, of a particular
elegance, large, tufted towards the top, and interwoven with one another, form a kind of plain
in the air, whose effect is charming when we mount sufficiently high to perceive it. The lower
trees are placed beneath the shelter of this verdant vault. Two palm trees only are found in
Rome which are both planted in the gardens of the monks; one of them, placed upon an eminence,
serves as a landmark, and a particular pleasure must always be felt in perceiving and retracing
in the various perspectives of Rome, this deputy of Africa, this type of a Southern climate
more burning still than that of Italy, and which awakens so many new ideas and sensations.

"Do you not find," said Corinne, contemplating with Oswald the country surrounding them; "that
nature in Italy disposes us more to reverie than any where else?--It might be said, that she
is here more in affinity with man, and that the Creator uses her as a medium of interpretation
between his creature and himself." "Undoubtedly," replied Oswald, "I think so; but who knows
whether it may not be the deep feelings of tenderness which you excite in my heart, that render
me sensible to all I see?--You reveal to me the emotions and thoughts, which external objects
can give birth to. I existed but in my heart; you have awakened my imagination. But this magic
of the universe, which you teach me to know, will never present me with any thing more lovely
than your look, more moving than your voice." "May the sentiment I now inspire you with, last
as long as my life," said Corinne, "or at least, may my life never survive the power of inspiring
it!"

Oswald and Corinne terminated their tour of Rome by the Borghese villa. Of all the Roman gardens
and palaces, here the splendours of nature and the arts, are assembled with the greatest taste
and brilliancy. Here are seen trees of every kind, and magnificent fountains; an incredible
number of statues, vases, and antique sarcophagi, mingled with the freshness of the youthful
nature of the South. The ancient mythology here seems revived; the naiades are placed on the
borders of rivers, the nymphs in woods worthy of them, the tombs beneath Elysian shades, and
the statue of Esculapius in the middle of an isle, while that of Venus appears to rise out
of the waters: Ovid and Virgil might walk in this enchanting spot, and still believe themselves
in the Augustan age. The masterpieces of sculpture which the palace contains, give it a magnificence
ever new. At a distance, through the trees, is perceived the city of Rome and St Peter's, the
Campagna, and those long arches, the wrecks of aqueducts, which conveyed the springs from the
mountains into ancient Rome. Everything is there that can excite thought, delight the imagination,
and foster reverie. The most pure sensations are confounded with the pleasures of the soul,
and give an idea of perfect happiness; but when we ask why this charming abode is not inhabited?
they answer you that the malaria (la cattiva aria) will not permit any one to live here during
summer.

This malaria, in a manner, lays siege to Rome; it advances every year some steps farther, and
they are obliged to abandon the most charming habitations to its empire: undoubtedly, the absence
of trees in the country about the city, is one of the causes of it; and it is perhaps, on that
account, that the ancient Romans consecrated the woods to goddesses, in order to make them
respected by the people. At present, forests without number have been cut down;--can there
indeed exist, in our days, any place so sanctified, that the avidity of man will spare it from
the work of devastation? The malaria is the scourge of the inhabitants of Rome, and threatens
the city with an entire depopulation; but perhaps it increases the effect produced by the superb
gardens which are seen within the walls of Rome. The malign influence is not felt by any external
sign; you breathe an air which seems pure, and is very agreeable; the earth is smiling and
fertile; a delicious coolness refreshes you in the evening after the burning heat of the day;
and all this is death!

"I love," said Oswald to Corinne, "this mysterious, invisible danger, this danger under the
form of the sweetest impressions. If death be only, what I believe it to be, a summons to a
happier existence, why should not the perfume of flowers, the umbrage of fine trees, and the
refreshing breath of the evening breeze, be the bearers of that summons? Undoubtedly, governments
ought to watch in every way over the preservation of human life; but there are secrets in nature
which the imagination alone can penetrate; and I easily conceive that neither the inhabitants
nor the strangers who visit it, are disgusted with Rome, by the species of peril to which they
are exposed there during the most beautiful seasons of the year."

Book vi.

THE MANNERS AND CHARACTER OF THE ITALIANS.

Chapter i.

The indecision of Oswald's character, increased by his misfortunes, led him to dread forming
any irrevocable resolve. He had not even dared, in his state of irresolution, to ask of Corinne
the secret of her name and destiny; nevertheless, his love acquired every day new strength;
he never beheld her without emotion; in company he could hardly quit, even for an instant,
the place where she was seated; she did not speak a word that he felt not; nor did she experience
one moment's sadness or gaiety, that was not reflected in his countenance. But in the midst
of his admiration and of his love for Corinne, he recollected how little such a woman agreed
with the English manner of living; how much she differed from the idea which his father had
formed of her whom it would be proper for him to espouse; and all that he said to Corinne partook
of the trouble and constraint which these reflections caused him.

Corinne perceived this too well; but it would have cost her so much to break off with Lord
Nelville, that she herself endeavoured to avoid, as much as he, a decisive explanation; and
as she was not possessed of much foresight she was happy with the present, such as it was,
although it was impossible for her to know what would be the issue of it.

She had become entirely divided from the world, in order to devote herself entirely to her
passion for Oswald. But at length, so much affected was she at his silence with regard to the
future, that she resolved to accept an invitation for a ball to which she had been pressingly
solicited. Nothing is more common at Rome than to leave society and to appear in it again,
alternately, just as the parties feel it agreeable to themselves: it is the country where people
trouble their minds the least with what is elsewhere called gossip; each one does as he pleases,
without any person enquiring about it, or at least, without finding in others any obstacle
either to his love or his ambition. The Romans are as inattentive to the conduct of their fellow-countrymen,
as to that of strangers, who pass and repass through their city, the rendezvous of Europeans.
When Lord Nelville knew that Corinne was going to the ball, he was vexed at it. He thought
he had perceived in her for some time a melancholy disposition in sympathy with his own: all
on a sudden she appeared to him to be taken up with dancing, an art in which she excelled;
and her imagination seemed fired at the approach of a féte. Corinne was not frivolous by character;
but she felt herself every day more and more enslaved by her love for Oswald, and she would
fain endeavour to weaken its force. She knew by experience, that reflection and sacrifices
have less effect upon passionate characters than dissipation, and she thought that reason did
not consist in conquering ourselves according to rules, but by doing so how we can.

"I must," said she to Lord Nelville, who reproached her with her intention of going to the
ball, "I must know, however, if there be only you in the world who can fill the void of my
life; if that which pleased me formerly may not still have the power to amuse me; and if the
sentiment you have inspired me with must absorb every other interest, every other idea."--"You
would then cease to love me?" replied Oswald.--"No;" answered Corinne, "but it is only in domestic
life that it could be pleasing to me to feel thus governed by a single affection. To me who
need my talents, my mind, and my imagination, to support the lustre of that kind of life which
I have adopted, it must be painful--extremely painful to love as I love you."--"You would not
sacrifice to me then," said Oswald to her, "this homage and this glory."--"Of what importance
can it be to you," said Corinne, "to know whether or not I would sacrifice them to you? Since
we are not absolutely destined for one another, it would not be prudent to let that happiness
with which I must be satisfied, wither for ever."--Lord Nelville made no answer, because it
was necessary, in expressing his sentiments, to avow also the purpose they inspired, and of
this his own heart was still in ignorance. He was silent therefore, and sighing, followed Corinne
to the ball, whither he went with much reluctance.

It was the first time since his calamity that he had seen a large assembly; and the tumult
of a féte caused him such an impression of sadness that he remained a long time in a room contiguous
to that appropriated for the ball, his head supported on his hand, not even curious to behold
Corinne dance. He listened to the festive music, which like every other music, produces reverie,
though only intended to inspire joy. The Count d'Erfeuil arrived, quite enchanted at the sight
of a ball, which produced in him some recollections of France.--"I have tried all I could,"
said he to Lord Nelville, "to discover something interesting in these ruins of which they talk
so much, and I can really find no charm in them. It must be the effect of a very great prejudice
to admire those heaps of rubbish covered with thorns. I shall speak my mind of them when I
return to Paris, for it is time that this Italian delusion should cease. There is not a monument
now standing whole in any part of Europe, that I would not sooner see than those old stumps
of pillars, those bas-reliefs, all black with time, which can only be admired by dint of erudition.
A pleasure which must be bought with so much study, does not appear to me very lively in itself--to
be charmed with the sights of Paris, nobody need grow pale over books." Lord Nelville made
no reply.--The Count interrogated him afresh, as to the impression that Rome produced on him.
"In the midst of a ball," said Oswald, "is not the most proper time for serious conversation
on this subject; and you know that I am incapable of any other."--"Well and good:" replied
the Count d'Erfeuil, "I am more gay than you I admit; but who knows whether I am not also the
more wise of the two? Believe me, there is much philosophy in my apparent levity: it is the
way we should take life."--"You are perhaps in the right," answered Oswald, "but it is from
nature, and not from reflection, that you acquire that way of thinking; and that is why your
manner of taking life may only suit yourself."

The Count d'Erfeuil heard the name of Corinne mentioned in the ball room, and entered it to
know what was going forward. Lord Nelville advanced as far as the door, and beheld the Prince
Amalfi, a Neapolitan of the most handsome figure, who besought Corinne to dance with him the
Tarantula, a Neapolitan dance full of grace and originality. The friends of Corinne besought
her also to comply with his request. She yielded to their desire without waiting to be asked
frequently, which astonished the Count d'Erfeuil, accustomed as he was to the refusals with
which it is customary to precede consenting to a request of this nature. But in Italy, these
kind of graces are unknown, and all believe they please most in society by showing an eagerness
to do what is asked of them. Corinne would have invented this natural behaviour if she were
not already accustomed to it. The dress she had chosen for the ball was elegant and light;
her hair was gathered up in a fillet of silk, after the Italian fashion; and her eyes expressed
a lively pleasure, which rendered her more seductive than ever. Oswald was disturbed at this;
he warred against himself; he was indignant at being captivated with charms which he ought
to lament, since, far from thinking to please him, it was to escape his empire that Corinne
appeared so attractive.--But who could resist the seductions of a grace like hers? Were she
even disdainful, she would be still more omnipotent; and that certainly was not the disposition
of Corinne. She perceived Lord Nelville, and blushed, while there was in her eyes as she looked
upon him, a most enchanting softness.

The Prince d'Amalfi accompanied himself, in dancing, with castanets. Corinne before she began
saluted the assembly most gracefully with both her hands, then turning round upon her heel
took the tambourine which the Prince Amalfi presented her with. She then began to dance, striking
the air upon the tambourine, and there was in all her motions, an agility, a grace, a mixture
of modesty and voluptuousness, which might give an idea of that power which the Bayadores exercise
over the imagination of the Indians, when, if we may use the expression, they are almost poets
in their dance; when they express so many different sentiments by the characteristic steps
and the enchanting pictures which they offer to the sight. Corinne was so well acquainted with
all the attitudes which the ancient painters and sculptors have represented, that by a light
movement of her arms, sometimes in placing the tambourine over her head, sometimes forward,
with one of her hands, whilst the other ran over the little bells with an incredible dexterity,
she recalled to mind the dancers of Herculaneam[20], and gave birth successively to a crowd
of new ideas for painting and design.

It was not the French style, characterised by the elegance and difficulty of the step; it was
a talent more connected with imagination and sentiment. The character of the music was alternately
expressed by the exactitude and softness of the movements. Corinne, in dancing, conveyed to
the souls of her spectators what was passing in her own. The same as in her improvisation,
her performance on the lyre, or the efforts of her pencil,--she reduced everything to language.
The musicians, in beholding her, exerted themselves to make the genius of their art felt more
exquisitely; a kind of passionate joy, a sensibility of the imagination, electrified all the
spectators of the magic dance, and transported them to that state of ideal existence in which
we dream of happiness that does not exist in this world.

There is a part of this Neapolitan dance when the lady kneels, whilst the gentleman moves round
her, not as a master, but as a conqueror.--What at this moment were the charms and dignity
of Corinne. How regal, even in kneeling, did she appear! And when she arose, striking her aerial
cymbal, she seemed animated with that lively enthusiasm of youth and beauty, which would create
a belief that nothing was wanting to complete her happiness. Alas! it was far otherwise; but
Oswald feared it, and sighed in the midst of his admiration of Corinne, as if each triumph
of her genius was a degree of separation from him: at the conclusion of the dance, the gentleman
kneels in his turn, and the lady dances round him. Corinne in this part, if it were possible,
surpassed herself; her step was so light, as she tripped two or three times round the same
circle, that her buskined feet seemed to fly over the floor with the velocity of lightning;
and when she lifted up one of her hands, shaking the tambourine, while with the other she motioned
the Prince Amalfi to rise, all the male part of the company were tempted to throw themselves
on their knees too, except Oswald, who retired a few paces backward, and the Count d'Erfeuil,
who advanced a few paces forward to compliment Corinne. This enthusiasm of the Italians was
by no means assumed, but was the spontaneous effect of their feelings. They are not sufficiently
practised in society and in self-esteem to pay much regard to the effect which their actions
will produce; they never let themselves be thwarted in their pleasures by vanity, nor turned
aside from the object of their pursuit by applause.

Corinne was charmed at her success, and thanked all her admirers with the most simple grace.--The
satisfaction she felt at having succeeded so well, appeared beneath a veil of modesty; but
her chief anxiety was to make her way through the crowd, in order to reach the door against
which the pensive Oswald was leaning. When she had reached the spot, she paused to hear what
he would say to her:--"Corinne," said he, endeavouring to conceal his captivation as well as
the pain that he felt: "Corinne, I hope you have met with sufficient homage and sufficient
applause; but in the midst of these enthusiastic admirers, have you found one certain and courageous
friend--one protector for life? Can this vain tumult of applause satisfy a heart like thine?"

FOOTNOTE:

[20] It is the dance of Mm. Recamier that gave me the idea of what I have attempted to describe.
This woman, so celebrated for her grace and beauty, offers in the midst of her misfortunes
the example of so touching a resignation, and of such a total oblivion of her personal interests,
that her moral qualities seem to everyone as remarkable as her accomplishments.

Chapter ii.

Corrine was prevented by the crowd from making any answer to Lord Nelville. They were going
to the supper room, and each cavaliere servente was hastening to seat himself by the side of
his partner. A strange lady entered when all the seats were occupied, and no gentleman, except
Lord Nelville and Count d'Erfeuil, made her an offer of his. This was not the effect of impoliteness
or of egotism; but the idea which the great Roman lords entertain of honour and duty, is not
to stir one step, nor be absent one moment from their ladies. Some who were unable to find
seats, stood behind the chairs of their mistresses, ready to wait upon them at the least signal.
The ladies only conversed with their gallants; strangers wandered unnoticed about the circle;
for the ladies in Italy are unacquainted with coquetry, nor does any vain triumph of self-love
ever introduce itself into their tender attachments. They have no desire to please any other
than him who possesses their affection; you can never engage their minds before you have interested
their hearts or pleased their eyes, and frequently the most sudden beginnings of passion are
followed by a sincere devotion, and even a very long constancy. In Italy, infidelity is more
severely condemned in man than in woman. Three or four gentlemen, under different titles, are
followers of the same lady, who leads them about with her, often without even concerning herself
to mention their names to the master of the house who receives them. One is the favoured suitor--the
other he who aspires to be so--a third is called the sufferer (il patito); this latter is absolutely
disdained, but nevertheless, permitted to continue his adoration; and all these rivals live
peaceably together. The use of the poignard now only survives among the common people. There
is in this country a whimsical mixture of simplicity and depravity, dissimulation and truth,
sincerity and revenge, weakness and resolution, which can only be explained by constant observation;
the reason being that their good qualities proceed from the fact that nothing is done from
vanity, and their bad ones from the fact that they will do a great deal for interest, whether
that interest be allied to love, to ambition, or to fortune.

Distinctions of rank have in general little effect in Italy; this is not from philosophy, but
their facility of character and familiarity of manners. This accounts for the little influence
of aristocratic prejudices amongst them; for as society does not pretend to judge of anything,
it embraces the opinions of all.

After supper the company betook themselves to play. Some ladies preferred the game of hazard,
whilst others chose the silent one of whist; and not a word was heard pronounced in that room
which so lately was filled with noise. The inhabitants of the south often pass from the greatest
agitation to the most profound repose: another contrasted part of their character is indolence
united to the most unwearied activity. In any individual instance among these people, we must
beware of judging upon a first observation, since we find in them the most opposite qualities:
if at one moment they are prudent, perhaps in the next they show themselves the boldest of
men; if they appear indolent, it is only because they are reposing after some exertion, or
preparing for another: their soul loses none of its force in society, but is most probably
concentrating all its energies for decisive circumstances.

In this Roman assembly of which Oswald and Corinne formed a part, there were men who lost enormous
sums at play, without betraying in their countenances the slightest emotion. Had these men
been relating some facts of trifling importance, they would have exhibited the most lively
expression and the most animated gestures; but when their passions arrive at a certain pitch
of violence, they dread the eye of observation, and nearly always conceal them beneath a veil
of silence and apparent apathy.

