The varieties of paper on the market at the service of the artist are innumerable, and nothing
need be said here except that the texture of your paper will have a considerable influence
on your drawing. But try every sort of paper so as to find what suits the particular things
you want to express. I make a point of buying every new paper I see, and a new paper is often
a stimulant to some new quality in drawing. Avoid the wood-pulp papers, as they turn dark after
a time. Linen rag is the only safe substance for good papers, and artists now have in the O.W.
papers a large series that they can rely on being made of linen only.

It is sometimes advisable, when you are not drawing a subject that demands a clear hard line,
but where more sympathetic qualities are wanted, to have a wad of several sheets of paper under
the one you are working on, pinned on the drawing-board. This gives you a more sympathetic
surface to work upon and improves the quality of your work. In redrawing a study with which
you are not quite satisfied, it is a good plan to use a thin paper, pinning it over the first
study so that it can be seen through. One can by this means start as it were from the point
where one left off. Good papers of this description are now on the market. I fancy they are
called "bank-note" papers.

XXI

CONCLUSION

Mechanical invention, mechanical knowledge, and even a mechanical theory of the universe, have
so influenced the average modern mind, that it has been thought necessary in the foregoing
pages to speak out strongly against the idea of a mechanical standard of accuracy in artistic
drawing. If there were such a standard, the photographic camera would serve our purpose well
enough. And, considering how largely this idea is held, one need not be surprised that some
painters use the camera; indeed, the wonder is that they do not use it more, as it gives in
some perfection the mechanical accuracy which is all they seem to aim at in their work. There
may be times when the camera can be of use to artists, but only to those who are thoroughly
competent to do without it--to those who can look, as it were, through the photograph and draw
from it with the same freedom and spontaneity with which they would draw from nature, thus
avoiding its dead mechanical accuracy, which is a very difficult thing to do. But the camera
is a convenience to be avoided by the student.

Now, although it has been necessary to insist strongly on the difference between phenomena
mechanically recorded and the records of a living individual consciousness, I should be very
sorry if anything said should lead students to assume that a loose and careless manner of study
was in any way advocated. The training of his eye and hand to the most painstaking accuracy
of observation and record must be the student's aim for many years. The variations on mechanical
accuracy in the work of a fine draughtsman need not be, and seldom are, conscious variations.
Mechanical accuracy is a much easier thing to accomplish than accuracy to the subtle perceptions
of the artist. And he who cannot draw with great precision the ordinary cold aspect of things
cannot hope to catch the fleeting aspect of his finer vision.

Those artists who can only draw in some weird fashion remote from nature may produce work of
some interest; but they are too much at the mercy of a natural trick of hand to hope to be
more than interesting curiosities in art.

The object of your training in drawing should be to develop to the uttermost the observation
of form and all that it signifies, and your powers of accurately portraying this on paper.

#Unflinching honesty# must be observed in all your studies. It is only then that the "you"
in you will eventually find expression in your work. And it is this personal quality, this
recording of the impressions of life as felt by a conscious individual that is the very essence
of distinction in art.

The "seeking after originality" so much advocated would be better put "seeking for sincerity."
Seeking for originality usually resolves itself into running after any peculiarity in manner
that the changing fashions of a restless age may throw up. One of the most original men who
ever lived did not trouble to invent the plots of more than three or four of his plays, but
was content to take the hackneyed work of his time as the vehicle through which to pour the
rich treasures of his vision of life. And wrote:

     "What custom wills in all things do you do it."

Individual style will come to you naturally as you become more conscious of what it is you
wish to express. There are two kinds of insincerity in style, the employment of a ready-made
conventional manner that is not understood and that does not fit the matter; and the running
after and laboriously seeking an original manner when no original matter exists. Good style
depends on a clear idea of what it is you wish to do; it is the shortest means to the end aimed
at, the most apt manner of conveying that personal "something" that is in all good work. "The
style is the man," as Flaubert says. The splendour and value of your style will depend on the
splendour and value of the mental vision inspired in you, that you seek to convey; on the quality
of the man, in other words. And this is not a matter where direct teaching can help you, but
rests between your own consciousness and those higher powers that move it.

APPENDIX

If you add a line of 5 inches to one of 8 inches you produce one 13 inches long, and if you
proceed by always adding the last two you arrive at a series of lengths, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34,
55 inches, &c. Mr. William Schooling tells me that any two of these lines adjoining one another
are practically in the same proportion to each other; that is to say, one 8 inches is 1.600
times the size of one 5 inches, and the 13-inch line is 1.625 the size of the 8-inch, and the
21-inch line being 1.615 times the 13-inch line, and so on. With the mathematician's love of
accuracy, Mr. Schooling has worked out the exact proportion that should exist between a series
of quantities for them to be in the same proportion to their neighbours, and in which any two
added together would produce the next. There is only one proportion that will do this, and
although very formidable, stated exactly, for practical purposes, it is that between 5 and
a fraction over 8. Stated accurately to eleven places of decimals it is (1 + sqrt(5))/2 = 1.61803398875
(nearly).

We have evidently here a very unique proportion. Mr. Schooling has called this the Phi proportion,
and it will be convenient to refer to it by this name.

Testing this proportion on the reproductions of pictures in this book in the order of their
appearing, we find the following remarkable results:

"Los Meninas," Velazquez, page 60 .--The right-hand side of light opening of door at the end
of the room is exactly Phi proportion with the two sides of picture; and further, the bottom
of this opening is exactly Phi proportion with the top and bottom of canvas. 

The lot of Woman is sad. She is constituted to expect and need a happiness
that cannot exist on earth.

She must stifle such aspirations within her secret heart, and fit herself, as well as she can, for
a life of resignations and consolations. This is also an important
centre in the construction of the composition.

"Bacchus and Ariadne," Titian, page 154 .--The proportion in this picture both with top and
bottom and sides of canvas comes in the shadow under chin of Bacchus; the most important point
in the composition being the placing of this head.

