The irony of the thing caught Peter, for the authorities to arrest Tump not because he was
trying to kill Peter, but because he went about his first attempt in an illegal manner. For
the first time in his life the mulatto felt that contempt for a white man's technicalities
that flavors every negro's thoughts. Here for thirty days his life had been saved by a technical
law of the white man; at the end of the thirty days, by another technical law, Tump was set
at liberty and allowed to carry a weapon, in a certain way, to murder him. It was grotesque;
it was absurd. It filled Peter with a sudden violent questioning of the whole white régime.
His thoughts danced along in peculiar excitement.

At the turn of the hill the trio came in sight of the squalid semicircle of Niggertown. Here
and there from a tumbledown chimney a feather of pale wood smoke lifted into the chill sunshine.
The sight of the houses brought Peter a sharp realization that his life would end in the curving
street beneath him. A shock at the incomprehensible brevity of his life rushed over him. Just
to that street, just as far as the curve, and his legs were swinging along, carrying him forward
at an even gait.

All at once he began talking, arguing. He tried to speak at an ordinary tempo, but his words
kept edging on faster and faster:

"Tump, I'm not going to marry Cissie Dildine."

"I knows you ain't, Peter."

"I mean, if you let me alone, I didn't mean to."

"I ain't goin' to let you alone."

"Tump, we had already decided not to marry."

After a short pause Tump said in a slightly different tone:

"'Pears lak you don' haf to ma'y her--comin' to yo' room."

A queer sinking came over the mulatto. "Listen, Tump, I--we--in my room --we simply talked,
that's all. She came to tell me she was goin away. I--I didn't harm her, Tump." Peter swallowed.
He despaired of being believed.

But his defense only infuriated the soldier. He suddenly broke into violent profanity.

"Hot damn you! shut yo black mouf! Whut I keer whut-chu done! You weaned her away fum me. She
won't speak to me! She won't look at me!" A sudden insanity of rage seized Tump. He poured
on his victim every oath and obscenity he had raked out of the whole army.

Strangely enough, the gunman's outbreak brought a kind of relief to Peter Siner. It exonerated
him. He was not suspected of wronging Cissie; or, rather, whether he had or had not wronged
her made no difference to Tump. Peter's crime consisted in mere being, in existing where Cissie
could see him and desire him rather than Tump. Why it calmed Peter to know that Tump held no
dishonorable charge against him the mulatto himself could not have told. Tump's violence showed
Peter the certainty of his own death, and somehow it washed away the hope and the thought of
escape.

Half-way down the hill they entered the edge of Niggertown. The smell of sties and stables
came to them. Peter's thoughts moved here and there, like the eyes of a little child glancing
about as it is forced to leave a pleasure-ground.

Peter knew that Jim Pink, who now made a sorry figure in their rear, would one day give a buffoon's
mimicry of this his walk to death. He thought of Tump, who would have to serve a year or two
in the Nashville Penitentiary, for the murder of negroes is seldom severely punished. He thought
of Cissie. He was being murdered because Cissie desired him.

And then Peter remembered the single bit of wisdom that his whole life had taught him. It was
this: no people can become civilized until the woman has the power of choice among the males
that sue for her hand. The history of the white race shows the gradual increase of the woman's
power of choice. Among the yellow races, where this power is curtailed, civilization is curtailed.
It was this principle that exalted chivalry. Upon it the white man has reared all his social
fabric.

So deeply ingrained is it that almost every novel written by white men revolves about some
woman's choice of her mate being thwarted by power or pride or wealth, but in every instance
the rightness of the woman's choice is finally justified. The burden of every song is love,
true love, enduring love, a woman's true and enduring love.

And in his moment of clairvoyance Peter saw that these songs and stories were profoundly true.
Against a woman's selectiveness no other social force may count.

That was why his own race was weak and hopeless and helpless. The males of his people were
devoid of any such sentiment or self-repression. They were men of the jungle, creatures of
tusk and claw and loin. This very act of violence against his person condemned his whole race.

These thoughts brought the mulatto an unspeakable sadness, not only for his own particular
death, but that this idea, this great redeeming truth, which burned so brightly in his brain,
would in another moment flicker out, unrevealed, and be no more.

                             CHAPTER XVIII

The coughing and rattling of an old motor-car as it rounded the Niggertown curve delayed Tump
Pack's act of violence. Instinctively, the three men waited for the machine to pass before
Peter walked out into the road. Next moment it appeared around the turn, moving slowly through
the dust and spreading a veritable fog behind it.

All three negroes recognized the first glimpse of the hood and top, for there are only three
or four cars in Hooker's Bend, and these are as well known as the faces of their owners. This
particular motor belonged to Constable Bobbs, and the next moment the trio saw the ponderous
body of the officer at the wheel, and by his side a woman. As the machine clacked toward them
Peter felt a certain surprise to see that it was Cissie Dildine.

The constable in the car scrutinized the black men, by the roadside in a very peculiar way.
As he came near, he leaned across Cissie and almost eclipsed the girl. He eyed the trio with
his perpetual menace of a grin on his broad red face. His right hand, lying across Cissie's
lap, held a revolver. When closest he shouted above the clangor of his engine:

"Now, none o' that, boys! None o' that! You'll prob'ly hit the gal if you shoot, an' I'll pick
you off lak three black skunks."

He brandished his revolver at them, but the gesture was barely seen, and instantly concealed
by the cloud; of dust following the motor. Next moment it enveloped the negroes and hid them
even from one another.

It was only after Peter was lost in the dust-cloud that the mulatto really divined what was
meant by Cissie's strange appearance with the constable, her chalky face, her frightened brown
eyes. The significance of the scene grew in his mind. He stood with eyes screwed to slits staring
into the apricot-colored dust in the direction of the vanishing noise.

Presently Tump Pack's form outlined itself in the yellow obscurity, groping toward Peter. He
still held his pistol, but it swung at his side. He called Peter's name in the strained voice
of a man struggling not to cough:

"Peter--is Mr. Bobbs done--'rested Cissie?"

Peter could hardly talk himself.

"Don't know. Looks like it."

The two negroes stared at each other through the dust.

"Fuh Gawd's sake! Cissie 'rested!" Tump began to cough. Then he wheezed:

"Mine an' yo' little deal's off, Peter. You gotta he'p git her out." Here he fell into a violent
fit of coughing, and started groping his way to the edge of the dust-cloud.

In the rush of the moment the swift change in Peter's situation appeared only natural. He followed
Tump, so distressed by the dust and disturbed over Cissie that he hardly thought of his peculiar
position. The dust pinched the upper part of his throat, stung his nose. Tears trickled from
his eyes, and he pressed his finger against his upper lip, trying not to sneeze. He was still
struggling against the sneeze when Tump recovered his speech.

"Wh-whut you reckon she done, Peter? She don' shoot craps, nor boot- laig, nor--" He fell to
coughing.

Peter got out a handkerchief and wiped his eyes.

"Let's go--to the Dildine house," he said.

The two moved hurriedly through the thinning cloud, and presently came to breathable air, where
they could see the houses around them.

"I know she done somp'n; I know she done somp'n," chanted Tump, with the melancholy cadence
of his race. He shook his dusty head. "You ain't never been in jail, is you, black man?"

Peter said he had not.

"Lawd! it ain't no place fuh a woman," declared Tump. "You dunno nothin' 'bout it, black man.
It sho ain't no place fuh a woman."

A notion of an iron cage floated before Peter's mind. The two negroes trudged on through the
crescent side by side, their steps raising a little trail of dust in the air behind them. Their
faces and clothes were of a uniform dust color. Streaks of mud marked the runnels of their
tears down their cheeks.

The shrubbery and weeds that grew alongside the negro thoroughfare were quite dead. Even the
little avenue of dwarf box was withered that led from the gate to the door of the Dildine home.
The two colored men walked up the little path to the door, knocked, and waited on the steps
for the little skirmish of observation from behind the blinds. None came. The worst had befallen
the house; there was nothing to guard. The door opened as soon as an inmate could reach it,
and Vannie Dildine stood before them.

The quadroon's eyes were red, and her face had the moist, slightly swollen appearance that
comes of protracted weeping. She looked so frail and miserable that Peter instinctively stepped
inside and took her arm to assist her in the mere physical effort of standing.

"What is the matter, Mrs. Dildine?" he asked in a shocked tone. "What's happened to Cissie?"

Vannie began weeping again with a faint gasping and a racking of her flat chest.

"It's--it's--O-o-oh, Peter!" She put an arm about him and began weeping against him. He soothed
her, patted her shoulder, at the same time staring at the side of her head, wondering what
could have dealt her this blow.

Presently she steadied herself and began explaining in feeble little phrases, sandwiched between
sobs and gasps:

"She--tuk a brooch--Kep'--kep' layin' it roun' in--h-her way, th-that young Sam Arkwright did,--a-an'
finally she--she tuk hit. N-nen, when he seen he h-had her, he said sh-sh-she 'd haf to d-do
wh-whut he said, or he'd sen' her to-to ja-a-il!" Vannie sobbed drearily for a few moments
on Peter's breast. "Sh-she did fuh a while: 'n 'en sh-she broke off wid h-him, anyhow, an'--an'
he swo' out a wa'nt an sont her to jail!" The mother sobbed without comfort, and finally added:
"Sh-she in a delicate fix now, an' 'at jail goin' to be a gloomy place fuh Cissie."

The three negroes stood motionless in the dusty hallway, motionless save for the racking of
Vannie's sobs.

Tump Pack stirred himself.

"Well, we gotta git her out." His words trailed off. He stood wrinkling his half-inch of brow.
"I wonder would dey exchange pris'ners; wonder ef I could go up an' serve out Cissie's term."

"Oh, Tump!" gasped the woman, "ef you only could!"

"I'll step an' see, Miss Vannie. 'At sho ain't no place fuh a nice gal lak Cissie." Tump turned
on his mission, evidently intending to walk to Jonesboro and offer himself in the place of
the prisoner.

Peter supported Vannie back into the poor living-room, and placed her in the old rocking-chair
before the empty hearth. There was where he had sat the evening Cissie made her painful confession
to him. Only now did he realize the whole of what Cissie was trying to confess.

Peter Siner overtook Tump Pack a little way down the crescent, opposite the Berry cabin. The
thoroughfare was deserted, because the weather was cold and the scantily clad children were
indoors. However, from every cabin came sound of laughing and romping, and now and then a youngster
darted through the cold from one hut to another.

It seemed to Peter Siner only a little while since he and Ida May were skittering through wintry
weather from one fire to another, with Cissie, a wailing, wet-nosed little spoil-sport, trailing
after them. And then, with a wheeling of the years, they were scattered everywhere.

As the negroes passed the Berry cabin, Nan Berry came out with an old shawl around her bristling
spikes. She stopped the two men and drew them to her gate with a gesture.

"Wha you gwine?"

"Jonesbuh."

"Whut you goin' do 'bout po-o-o' Cissie?"

"Goin' to see ef the sheriff won' take me 'stid o' Cissie."

"Tha's right," said Nan, nodding solemnly. "I hopes he will. You is mo' used to it, Tump."

"Sho ain't," agreed Nan.

Peter interrupted to say he was sure the sheriff would not exchange.

The hopes of his listeners fell.

"Weh-ul," dragged out Nan, with a long face, "of co'se now it's lak dis: ef Cissie goin' to
stay in dat ja-ul, she's goin' to need some mo' clo'es 'cep'n whut she's got on,--specially
lak she is."

Tump stared down the swing of the crescent.

"'Fo' Gawd, dis sho don' seem lak hit's right to me," he said.

Nan let herself out at the rickety gate. "You niggers wait heah tull I runs up to Miss Vannie's
an' git some o' Cissie's clo'es fuh you to tote her."

Tump objected.

"Jail ain't no place fuh clean clo'es. She jes better serve out her term lak she is, an' wash
up when she gits th'ugh."

"You fool nigger!" snapped Nan. "She kain't serve out her term lak she is!"

"Da' 's so," said Tump.

The three stood silent, Nan and Tump lost in blankness, trying to think of something to do
for Cissie. Finally Nan said:

"I heah she done commit gran' larceny, an' they goin' sen' her to de pen."

"Whut is gran' larceny?" asked Tump.

"It's takin' mo' at one time an' de white folks 'speck you to take," defined the woman. "Well,
I'll go git her clo'es." She hurried off up the crescent.

Peter and Tump waited in the Berry cabin for Nan's return. Outside, the Berry cabin was the
usual clapboard-roofed, weather-stained structure; inside, it was dark, windowless, and strong
with the odor of black folk. Some children were playing around the hearth, roasting chestnuts.
Their elders sat in a circle of decrepit chairs. It was so dark that when Peter first entered
he could not make out the little group, but he soon recognized their voices: Parson Ranson,
Wince Washington, Jerry Dillihay, and all of the Berry family.

They were talking of Cissie, of course. They hoped Cissie wouldn't really be sent to the penitentiary,
that the white folks would let her out in time for her to have her child at home. Parson Ranson
thought it would be bad luck for a child to be born in jail.

Wince Washington, who had been in jail a number of times, suggested that they bail Cissie out
by signing their names to a paper. He had been set free by this means once or twice.

Sally, Nan's little sister, observed tartly that if Cissie hadn't acted so, she wouldn't have
been in jail.

"Don' speak lak dat uv dem as is in trouble, Sally," reproved old Parson Ranson, solemnly;
"anybody can say 'Ef.'"

"Sho am de troof," agreed Jerry Dillihay.

"Sho am, black man." The conversation drifted into the endless moralizing of their race, but
it held no criticism or condemnation of Cissie. From the tone of the negroes one would have
thought some impersonal disaster had overtaken her. Every one was planning how to help Cissie,
how to make her present state more endurable. They were the black folk, the unfortunate of
the earth, and the pride of righteousness is only to the well placed and the untempted.

