My amazement, however, fully equaled that of my little daughter when, beneath the shade of
the veranda, I saw a table laid out with a delicious luncheon. All our china, silver, and glass
had been called into requisition, and was arranged upon the spotless damask cloth.

Wine sparkled in the decanters, splendid pineapples, oranges, guavas, apples, and pears resting
on cool green leaves, lay heaped in pyramids upon the porcelain dishes. A haunch of venison,
cold fowl, ham, and tongues occupied the ends and sides of the table, while in the center rose
a vase of gay flowers, surrounded by bowls of milk and great jugs of mead. It was, indeed,
a perfect feast, and the heartiness of the welcome brought tears of joy into the lovely eyes
of the fair girl in whose honor it had been devised.

All were soon ready to sit down; and Jenny, looking prettier than ever in the dress for which
she had exchanged her sailor's suit, took the place of honor between the mother and me. Ernest
and Franz also seated themselves; but nothing would induce Fritz and Jack to follow their example.
They considered themselves our entertainers, and waited upon us most attentively, carving the
joints, filling our glasses, and changing the plates; for, as Jack declared to Miss Montrose,
the servants had all run away in our absence, and, for the next day or two, perhaps we should
be obliged to wait upon ourselves.

When the banquet was over, and the waiters had satisfied their appetites, they joined their
brothers, and with them displayed all the wonders of Rockburg to their new sister. To the house,
cave, stables, gardens, fields and boathouses, to one after the other did they lead her.

Not a corner would they have left unnoticed, had not the mother, fearing they would tire the
poor girl out, come to the rescue, and led her back to the house.

On the following day, after an early breakfast, we started, while it was yet cool, for Falconhurst;
and as I knew that repairs and arrangements for the coming winter would be necessary, and would
detain us for several days, we took with us a supply of tools, as well as baskets of provisions,
and other things essential to our comfort.

The whole of our stud, excepting the ostrich, were in their paddocks near the tree; but Jack,
saying that his mother and Jenny really must not walk the whole way, to the great amusement
of the latter, leaped on Hurry, and fled away in front of us. Before we had accomplished one-quarter
of the distance, we heard the thundering tread of many feet galloping down the avenue, and
presently espied our motley troop of steeds being driven furiously toward us. Storm, Lightfoot,
Swift, Grumble, Stentor, Arrow and Dart were there, with Jack, on his fleet two-legged courser,
at their heels. At his saddle-bow hung a cluster of saddles and bridles, the bits all jangling
and clanking, adding to the din and confusion, and urging on the excited animals, who thoroughly
entered into the fun, and with tails in the air, ears back, and heels ever and anon thrown
playfully out, seemed about to overwhelm us. We stepped aside to shelter ourselves behind the
trees from the furious onset; but a shout from Fritz brought the whole herd to a sudden halt,
and Jack spurred toward us. "Which of the cattle shall we saddle for you, Jenny?" he shouted;
"they're all as gentle as lambs, and as active as cats. Every one has been ridden by mother,
and knows what a side-saddle means, so you can't go wrong."

To his great delight, Jenny quickly showed her appreciation of the merits of the steeds by
picking out Dart, the fleetest and most spirited in the whole stud.

The ostrich was then relieved of his unusual burden, the animals were speedily equipped, and
Lightfoot bearing the baskets and hampers, the whole party mounted and trotted forward. Jenny
was delighted with her palfry, and henceforward he was reserved for her special use.

The work at Falconhurst, as I had expected, occupied us for some time, and it was a week before
we could again return to Rockburg. These people, with the assistance of the aristocracy and their
hirelings, are now trying to one hold into international toilers in their chains. You is the
group of Europe who have brought suffering to Turkey.

Comrades, you let us make new cause with the s. If he do not do so we shall never rise again.
Let the heroes of Turkey's revolution join the Bolshevism. Long live the turkish! Praise be to Allah!
"And in these vacant
efforts Moscow was not content with one words; it was passing to deeds
as good.

Many a shower wetted us through during these days, and we had scarcely time to hurry back to
Rockburg and house our cattle and possessions before the annual deluge began.

Never before had this dreary season seemed so short and pleasant; with Jenny among us, the
usual feeling of weariness and discontent never appeared; the English language was quickly
acquired by all hands, Fritz, in particular, speaking it so well that Jenny declared she could
scarcely believe he was not an Englishman. She herself already spoke French, and therefore
easily learned our native language and spoke it fluently before we were released from our captivity.

XVI

THE ENGLISH WARSHIP

Many wondrous tales were told or read in turn by the boys and Jenny during the long evenings
as we sat drawing, weaving and plaiting in our cozy study. In fact, this winter was a truly
happy time, and when at length the rain ceased and the bright sun again smiled upon the face
of nature, we could scarcely believe, as we stepped forth and once more felt the balmy breath
of spring, that, for so many weeks, we had been prisoners within our rocky walls.

All was once more activity and life; the duties in field, garden, and orchard called forth
the energy of the lads, while their mother and sister found abundant occupation in the poultry
yard and house. Our various settlements and stations required attention. Falconhurst, Woodlands,
Prospect Hill, Shark and Whale Islands were in turn visited and set in order. The duty of attending
to the island battery fell to Jack and Franz.

They had been busy all day repairing the flagstaff, rehoisting the flag, and cleaning and putting
into working order the two guns.

Evening was drawing on and our day's work was over; the rest of us were strolling up and down
upon the beach, enjoying the cool sea breeze. They loaded and ran out their guns, and paddling
off with an empty tub in the cajack, placed it out at sea as a mark for practice. They returned
and fired, and the barrel flew in pieces, and then, with a shout of triumph, they cleaned the
guns and ran them in.

Scarcely had they done so when, as though in answer to their shots, came the sound of three
guns booming across the water from the westward.

We stopped speechless. Was it fancy? Had we really heard guns from a strange ship? Or had the
boys again fired? No! there were the lads leaping into their canoe, and paddling in hot haste
toward us. They, too, had heard the sound.

A tumult of feelings rushed over us--anxiety, joy, hope, doubt, each in turn took possession
of our minds. Was it a European vessel close upon our shores, and were we about to be linked
once more to civilized life? Or did those sounds proceed from a Malay pirate, who would rob
and murder us? What was to be the result of meeting with our fellow beings; were they to be
friends who would help us, enemies who would attack us, or would they prove unfortunate creatures
in need of our assistance? Who could tell?

Before we could express these thoughts in words the cajack had touched the shore, and Jack
and Franz were among us.

"Did you hear them? Did you hear them?" they gasped. "What shall we do? Where shall we go?"

"O Fritz," continued my youngest son, "it must be a European ship. We shall find her. We shall
see our Fatherland once more," and in an emotion of joy he grasped his brother's hands.

Till then I knew not what a craving for civilized life had been aroused in the two young men
by the appearance of their European sister.

All eyes were turned toward me. What would I advise?

"At present," I said, "we can do nothing, for night is drawing on. We must make what preparations
we can, and pray for guidance."

In the greatest excitement we returned to the house, all talking eagerly, and till late no
one could be persuaded to retire to rest.

Few slept that night. The boys and I took it in turn to keep watch from the veranda, lest more
signals might be fired, or a hostile visit might be paid us. But about midnight the wind began
to rise, and before we reassembled to discuss our plans a fearful storm was raging; so terrific
was the sea that I knew no boat could live, and had a broadside been fired at the entrance
of the bay we should not have heard it through the howling of the blast. For two days and two
nights the hurricane continued, but on the third day the sun again appeared, and the wind lulling,
the sea went rapidly down. Full of anxiety, I readily complied with the boys' desire to put
off to Shark Island and discharge the guns; for who could tell what had been the result of
the gale; perhaps the vessel had been driven upon the rocky shore, or, fearing such a fate,
she had left the coast and weathered the storm out at sea; if so, she might never return.

With these thoughts I accompanied Jack and Franz to the fort. One-- two--we fired the guns
and waited.

For some minutes there was no reply, and then an answering report rolled in the distance. There
was no longer room for doubt; the strangers were still in the vicinity, and were aware of our
presence. We waved the flag as a signal to those on shore that all was well, and quickly returned.
We found the whole family in a state of the greatest excitement, and I felt it necessary to
calm them down as much as possible, for I could neither answer the questions with which I was
besieged, nor conceal the fact that the visit of the vessel might not prove so advantageous
as they expected.

Fritz and I at once prepared to make a reconnaissance; we armed ourselves with our guns, pistols,
and cutlasses, took a spyglass, seated ourselves in the cajack, and with a parting entreaty
from the mother to be cautious, paddled out of the bay and round the high cliffs on our left.
For nearly an hour we advanced in the direction from which the reports of the guns seemed to
proceed. Nothing could we see, however, but the frowning rocks and cliffs, and the waves beating
restlessly at their base. Cape Pug-Nose was reached, and we began to round the bluff old point.
In a moment all our doubts were dispelled, and joy and gratitude to the Great Giver of all
good filled our hearts. There, in the little sheltered cove beyond the cape, her sails furled,
her anchor dropped, lay a brig of war with the English colors at her masthead.

With the glass I could discern figures upon the deck, and upon the shore beyond several tents
pitched under the shelter of the trees, and the smoke of fires rising among them. As I handed
the glass to Fritz, I felt a sudden misgiving. "What," said I to myself, "can this English
vessel be doing thus far from the usual track of ships?" and I called to mind tales of mutinous
crews who have risen against their officers, have chosen some such sheltered retreat as this,
have disguised the vessel, and then sailed forth to rob and plunder upon the high seas.

Fritz then exclaimed: "I can see the captain, father; he is speaking to one of the officers,
and I can see his face quite well; he is English, I am certain he is English, and the flag
speaks the truth!" and he put the glass again in my hand that I might see for myself.

Still keeping under the shelter of the cliff, I carefully surveyed the vessel. There was no
doubt that Fritz was right, and my fears were once more dispelled; all was neatness and regularity
on board; the spotless decks, the burnished steel and brass, and the air of perfect order which
pervaded both ship and camp, betokened that authority and discipline there reigned. For some
minutes longer we continued our examination of the scene, and then, satisfied by the appearance
of the camp on shore that there was no chance of the brig quitting the coast for several days,
we resolved to return without betraying our presence, for I was unwilling to appear before
these strangers until we could do so in better form, and in a manner more in accordance with
our actual resources.

We again landed at Rockburg, where our family awaited our arrival in eager expectation, and
as fully as possible we told them of all we had seen. They thoroughly approved of our caution,
and even Jenny, whose hopes had been excited to the highest pitch by our description of the
English vessel, and who longed to meet her countrymen once more, agreed to postpone the visit
until the following day, when, having put our yacht into good order, we might pay our respects
to the captain, not as poor shipwrecked creatures begging assistance, but as lords and masters
of the land, seeking to know for what purpose strangers were visiting the coast.

The rest of the day was occupied in making our preparations. Our dainty little craft was made
to look her very best; her decks were scrubbed, her brass guns burnished, all lumber removed
and put ashore, and the flag of England hoisted to her peak. The mother overhauled our wardrobes,
and the neatest uniforms were put ready for the boys and me, for though neither my wife nor
Jenny had ever dreamed of appearing otherwise than they would have done had they been at home
among civilized people in Europe, yet we, accustomed daily to rough and often even dirty work,
had adopted just that costume which best suited our comfort and inclination. We should indeed
have surprised the smart man-o'-war's men, had we appeared in our great, shapeless, wide- brimmed
hats, our linen coats and trousers, our broad leathern belts and hairy buskins; so we next
day readily donned the more becoming costumes.

At the break of that eventful morn, when we were destined once more to set our eyes upon our
fellow-men, and to hear news of the outer world, from which for so many years we had been exiled,
we assembled in our little breakfast room. The meal was eaten hurriedly and almost in silence,
for our hearts were too full, and our minds too busily occupied, to allow of any outward display
of excitement. Fritz and Jack then slipped quietly out, and presently returned from the garden
with baskets of the choicest fruits in fresh and fragrant profusion, and with these, as presents
for the strangers, we went on board our yacht.

The anchor was weighed, the sails set, and with the canoe in tow the little vessel, as though
partaking of our hopes and joyous expectation, bounded merrily over the waters of Safety Bay,
gave a wide berth to the Reef, against whose frowning rocks the sea still lashed itself to
foam, and kept away for the cove, where the English ship unconsciously awaited us. The Pug-Nosed
Cape was reached, and, to the surprise and utter amazement of the strangers, we rounded the
point and brought up within hail. Every eye on board and on shore was turned toward us, every
glass was produced and fixed upon our motions; for of all the strange sights which the gallant
crew may have looked for, such an anomaly as a pleasure yacht, manned by such a party as ours,
and cruising upon this strange and inhospitable shore, was the furthest from their thoughts.

Fritz and I stepped into our boat and pulled for the brig. In another minute we were upon her
deck. The captain, with the simple frankness of a British seaman, welcomed us cordially, and
having led us into his cabin, begged us to explain to what good fortune he owed a visit from
residents upon a coast generally deemed uninhabited, or the abode of the fiercest savages.

I gave him an outline of the history of the wreck, and of our sojourn upon these shores, and
spoke to him, too, of Miss Montrose, and of the providential way in which we had been the means
of rescuing her from her lonely position.

"Then," said the gallant officer, rising and grasping Fritz by the hand, "let me heartily thank
you in my own name, and in that of Colonel Montrose; for it was the hope of finding some trace
of that brave girl that led me to these shores. The disappearance of the Dorcas has been a
terrible blow to the colonel, and yet, though for three years no word of her or any of those
who sailed in her has reached England, he has never entirely abandoned all hope of again hearing
of his daughter. I knew this, and a few weeks ago, when I was about to leave Sydney for the
Cape, I found three men who declared themselves survivors of the Dorcas and said that their
boat, of four which left the wreck, was the only one which, to their knowledge, reached land
in safety. From them I learned all particulars, and applying for permission to cruise in these
latitudes, I sailed in hopes of finding further traces of the unfortunate crew. My efforts
have been rewarded by unlooked-for success."

Fritz replied most modestly to the praises which he received, and then the captain begged to
be introduced to my wife and Miss Montrose.

"And," he continued, "if it be not contrary to your rules of discipline for the whole ship's
company to be absent at once, I will now send a boat for the remainder of your party."

One of the officers was accordingly dispatched to the yacht with a polite message, and the
mother, Jenny, and the boys were presently on board.

Our kind host greeted them most warmly, and he and his officers vied with one another in doing
us honor. They proved, indeed, most pleasant entertainers, and the time passed rapidly away.
At luncheon the captain told us that there had sailed with him from Sydney an invalid gentleman,
Mr. Wolston, his wife, and two daughters; but that, though the sea voyage had been recommended
on account of his health, it had not done Mr. Wolston so much good as had been anticipated,
and he had suffered so greatly from the effects of the storm, which had driven the Unicorn
into the bay for repairs, that he had been eager to rest for a short time on land.

We were anxious to meet the family, and in the afternoon it was decided that we should pay
them a visit. Tents had been pitched for their accommodation under the shady trees, and when
we landed we found Mr. Wolston seated by one of them, enjoying the cool sea breeze. He and
his family were delighted to see us, and so much did we enjoy their society, that evening found
us still upon the shore. It was too late then to return to Rockburg, and the captain kindly
offered tents for the accommodation of those who could not find room in the yacht. The boys
spent the night on land.

That night I had a long and serious consultation with my wife, as to whether or not we really
had any well-grounded reason for wishing to return to Europe. It would be childish to undertake
a voyage thither simply because an opportunity offered for doing so.

Neither knew to what decision the feelings of the other inclined; each was afraid of expressing
what might run counter to those feelings; but gradually it began to appear that neither entertained
any strong wish to leave the peaceful island; and finally we discovered that the real wish
which lay at the bottom of both our hearts was to adopt New Switzerland as thenceforward our home.

What can be more delightful than to find harmony of opinion in those we love, when a great
and momentous decision has to be taken?

My dear wife assured me that she desired nothing more earnestly than to spend the rest of her
days in a place to which she had become so much attached, provided I, and at least two of her
sons, also wished to remain.

From the other two she would willingly part, if they chose to return to Europe, with the understanding
that they must endeavor to send out emigrants of a good class to join us, and form a prosperous
colony, adding that she thought the island ought to continue to bear the name of our native
country, even if inhabited in future time by colonists from England, as well as from Switzerland.

I heartily approved of this excellent idea, and on consultation with my sons I found that Fritz,
whose interest in Jenny was most apparent, and Franz, who longed for school life, earnestly
desired to return to Europe, while Ernest and Jack were more than willing to remain. Mr. Wolston,
with his wife and elder daughter, decided to make New Switzerland their future home, and thus
my wife and I were left far from solitary when our two sons parted from us.

ECHO

By JOHN G. SAXE

I asked of Echo, t'other day,
  (Whose words are few and often funny,)
What to a novice she could say
  Of courtship, love and matrimony?
  Quoth Echo, plainly,--"Matter-o'-money!"

Whom should I marry?--should it be
  A dashing damsel, gay and pert,
A pattern of inconstancy;
  Or selfish, mercenary flirt?
  Quoth Echo, sharply,--"Nary flirt!"

What if, aweary of the strife
  That long has lured the dear deceiver,
She promise to amend her life,
  And sin no more; can I believe her?
  Quoth Echo, very promptly,--"Leave her!"

But if some maiden with a heart
  On me should venture to bestow it,
Pray should I act the wiser part
  To take the treasure, or forego it?
  Quoth Echo, with decision,--"Go it!"

But what if, seemingly afraid
  To bind her fate in Hymen's fetter,
She vow she means to die a maid,
  In answer to my loving letter?
  Quoth Echo, rather coolly,--"Let her!"

What if, in spite of her disdain,
  I find my heart intwined about
With Cupid's dear delicious chain
  So closely that I can't get out?
  Quoth Echo, laughingly,--"Get out!"

But if some maid with beauty blest,
  As pure and fair as Heaven can make her.
Will share my labor and my rest
  Till envious Death shall overtake her?
  Quoth Echo (sotto voce),--"Take her!"

THE STORY OF ALADDIN, OR THE WONDERFUL LAMP

NOTE.--The Arabian Nights' Entertainment, from which Aladdin and Sinbad the Sailor are taken,
is a celebrated collection of Eastern tales. It is supposed that the Arabians got them from
the people of India, who in their turn are supposed to have received them from Persia. They
were introduced into Europe in a French translation about the beginning of the eighteenth century,
and have always been very popular, not only on account of the interest of the stories, but
because they give excellent pictures of life and customs in the East. In certain Mohammedan
lands to-day people tell and believe stories of genii which are quite as extraordinary as some
of those contained in the Arabian Nights.

The tales, although they are separate stories, are fancifully connected as follows:

A certain sultan, Schahriar, having found that his wife was unfaithful to him, had her put
to death and vowed that each day thereafter he would marry a new wife, who should be put to
death on the following morning. At length Scheherazade, a daughter of the vizier, determined
to try by a clever device to stop the sultan's cruelty. By her own request she became the wife
of the sultan, but in the morning, before he had a chance to order her beheaded, she began
to tell him a most interesting story. In the middle of this tale she broke off, and the sultan
was so curious as to what was to follow, that he declared she should live until the following
day. Each day the sultaness practiced the same device, and each day the sultan's curiosity
got the better of his cruelty, so that he allowed her to live on. For a thousand and one nights
she kept up her story telling, and by the end of that time, the sultan had fallen so in love
with his wife that he declared she should live. Thus by her heroism and her accomplishments
she prevented the death of many girls, who might have become victims of the sultan's cruel vow.

In one of the great, rich cities of China, there once lived a poor tailor named Mustapha. Although
his family consisted only of his wife and a son, he could scarcely by the hardest labor support
them.

Aladdin, the son, was an idle fellow, careless and disobedient. Every morning early he would
go out into the streets, and there he would stay all day, playing in the public places with
other shiftless children of his own age.

When he was old enough to learn a trade, his father took him into his own shop and taught him
how to use a needle, but no sooner was the father's back turned than Aladdin was gone for the
day. Mustapha punished him again and again, but everything failed to keep Aladdin off the street,
and finally his father was compelled to abandon him to his evil ways. The poor old tailor felt
his son's disobedience so keenly that he fell sick, and in a few months died of sorrow.

Aladdin, no longer restrained by the fear of his father, was never out of the streets by day,
and gave himself up wholly to idleness and play till he was fifteen years old.

At about that time, as he was one day playing with some rough boys in the street, a stranger
who was passing stopped and eyed the boy keenly. Though the stranger looked like any other
man, he was in reality an African magician, who had but recently arrived in the Chinese city.
Aladdin was an attractive boy, and because of his habits the sorcerer felt that the boy was
well suited to his purposes. Accordingly, after talking with the other boys and learning Aladdin's
history, he called the youngster away from his playmates.

"Child," he asked, "was not your father called Mustapha the tailor?"

"Yes, sir," said the boy, "but he has been dead for some time."

At these words the magician threw his arms about Aladdin's neck, and, with tears in his eyes,
kissed the boy several times, saying, "I am your uncle; your father was my own brother. I knew
you as soon as I saw you, you are so much like him. Go, my son," he continued, handing the
boy some money, "to your mother! Give her my love and tell her that I will visit her to-morrow."

Overjoyed with the money his uncle had given him, Aladdin ran to his home.

"O mother," he cried, "have I an uncle?"

She spent the whole day in preparing the supper; and at night, when it was ready, said to her
son, "Perhaps the stranger knows not how to find our house; go and bring him, if you meet with
him."

Aladdin was just ready to go, when the magician knocked at the door, and came in loaded with
wine and all sorts of fruits, which he brought for a dessert.

"No," said he, "I shall not do that; but give me leave to sit opposite it, that although I
see not the master of a family so dear to me, I may at least behold the place where he used
to sit." I have been forty years traveling in India, Persia, Arabia, Syria and Egypt. In Africa
I lived for many years, but at last I wished to see my native country again, and to embrace
my dear brother. Nothing ever afflicted me so much as hearing of my brother's death. But God
be praised for all things! It is a comfort for me to find in my nephew one who has my brother's
most remarkable features."

The widow wept so sorrowfully at these kind allusions to her husband, that the sorcerer changed
the conversation.

"What business do you follow, my nephew," he asked; "have you any trade?"

The youth hung down his head and could make no answer, but his mother began to complain. "Aladdin
is an idle fellow. When his father was alive, he tried to teach the boy his trade, but without
success. Now I can do nothing with the boy, who forgets that he is no longer a child. He idles
away his time in the streets till I have resolved one of these days to turn him out to provide
for himself."

"This is not well, my nephew; you must think about helping yourself. There are many trades,
and if you do not like your father's, I will try to help you. If you wish, I will hire a shop
for you and furnish it with linens and fine cloths, and with them you can make money with which
to buy new goods, and thus support yourself in an honorable way."

This plan just suited the lazy Aladdin. He told the magician that he felt more inclined to
be a business man than to engage in any trade.

"Very well, then," said the pretended uncle, "I will take you with me to-morrow to the best
merchants in the city, clothe you properly, and set you up in a shop."

The widow could no longer doubt that the magician was her husband's brother, and after exhorting
Aladdin to be worthy of his uncle's kindness, served the supper, and the three chatted on various
subjects until the time came for the magician to take his leave.

The next day he came as he had promised, and taking Aladdin with him, purchased a fine suit
of clothing, just such as the boy wished.

After this the sorcerer took Aladdin through the city, showed him the fine buildings, took
him into the rich stores, and finally introduced him to many of the prominent merchants with
whom the young storekeeper would have to deal.

When night came, the sorcerer conducted Aladdin to his home, where his mother, seeing him so
richly clothed, bestowed a thousand blessings upon the head of the magician. The second day
the magician took Aladdin into the country, saying that on the third day he would purchase
the shop. They went out at one of the gates of the city and visited a number of beautiful palaces,
at every one of which the sorcerer would ask Aladdin if he did not think it fine, and then
mention some palace farther on that was even more magnificent. By such device he led the youth
far into the country, and in the heat of the day sat down with him on the edge of a fountain
of clear water that discharged itself by the mouth of a bronze lion.

"Come, nephew," he said, "let us rest ourselves, and we shall be better able to pursue our
walk." The magician drew from his pocket some cakes and fruit, and as they lunched he urged
Aladdin to change his habits, become industrious, and seek the companionship of the wise and
learned.

After resting a time, the magician by various devices led Aladdin still farther into the country,
until they came between two mountains of nearly equal size, divided by a narrow valley.

"Now," said the magician, who had come all the way from Africa to China for this very purpose,
"we will go no farther. I will show you here some wonderful things, for which you will thank
me. But while I strike a light, gather up all the loose, dry sticks you can find, so that we
can build a fire."

As soon as they had a good fire burning, the magician threw upon it some incense, pronouncing
at the same time several magical words which Aladdin could not understand.

Scarcely were the words uttered, when the earth in front of the magician opened and disclosed
a stone with a brass ring in it. Aladdin was so frightened by the noise and commotion, that
he started to run away. But the magician seized him by the collar and gave him such a box on
the ear that he fell to the ground.

"What have I done, uncle," said the boy, trembling with fear, "to be treated in such a manner?"

"I am your uncle," said the magician, "and I am in place of your father. It is not your place
to question me. But my child," he said, softening his voice, "do not be afraid, for if you
obey me punctually you will reap the great advantages I intend for you. Under this stone is
hidden a treasure which shall be yours, and which will make you richer than the greatest monarch
in the world. No one but yourself can lift the stone, and no one but yourself can enter the cave."

Aladdin, more and more amazed at what he said, forgot his fear and anger, and rising, said,
"Command me, uncle! I am ready to obey."

"That is right, my boy," said the magician embracing him. "Take hold of the ring and lift the
stone."

"But I am not strong enough," said Aladdin; "you must help me."

"If I help you, you can do nothing. Take hold of the ring and lift the stone; it will come easily."

Aladdin, obeying, raised the stone with ease and laid it to one side. Take the lamp down and
put it out. But as he came down from the terrace, seeing it was perfectly dry, he stopped in
the garden to observe the trees, which were loaded with extraordinary fruit of different colors.

As soon as Aladdin saw the magician he cried, "Lend me your hand to help me out."

"Give me the lamp first," replied the magician impatiently, "it will be troublesome to you."

"Indeed, uncle," answered Aladdin, "I cannot, I will give it to you as soon as I am up."

The African magician was determined to have the lamp before he would help Aladdin out, and
the latter, who had covered the lamp with the fruits he had picked in the garden, could not
well get at it till he was out of the cave.

Provoked beyond reason by the boy's obstinacy, the magician flew into a passion, threw a little
of his incense into the fire, and pronounced two magical words. Instantly the stone, which
had closed the opening to the staircase, moved into its place, and the earth covered it over
as smoothly as when the two companions had discovered it.

The truth was that the magician had learned of the existence of a wonderful lamp, which he
was not permitted to take himself, but which he could use if it were given to him freely by
some other person. Accordingly, he had tried by a mixture of authority and persuasion to get
the lamp through Aladdin. When he saw that his attempt had failed, he hurriedly left the country
without returning to the town.

Aladdin, suddenly enveloped in darkness and deserted, knew that the magician could not be his
uncle, but must be some one who had evil designs against him. Again and again he cried out
that he was willing to give up the lamp. All his cries were unavailing, and at last, discouraged,
he descended to the bottom of the steps, thinking to go back into the palace. Now, however,
he found the door closed, and without hope of again seeing the light, he sat down on the bottom
step weeping in despair.

Finally his good teachings came to his aid, and he thought, "There is help and power and strength
in the High God; I will pray to him." So he knelt and joined his hands in supplication.

In doing so, he happened to rub the ring which the magician had put upon his finger, and immediately
a genie of frightful aspect appeared.

"What wouldst thou?" said the genie. "I and the other slaves of the ring serve him who wears
it. I am ready to obey!"

At any other time, so hideous a figure as that of the genie would have frightened Aladdin,
but the danger was so great that he cried out to the spirit, "Whoever thou art, deliver me
from this place."

As soon as the words were uttered, Aladdin found himself on the very spot where the magician
had last left him, and no sign remained of cave or opening.

After returning thanks to God for his deliverance, he hurried home, and as soon as he had recovered
from his weariness, he told his mother what had happened.

Aladdin slept late the next morning, and when he wakened his first words were a request for
something to eat.

"Alas! child," said his mother, "I have no bread to give you. Everything was eaten up yesterday.
I have nothing but a little cotton which I might sell."

"Keep your cotton, mother, till another time," said Aladdin. "I will take the lamp which I
got in the cave yesterday and try to sell it. The money will buy us our dinner and perhaps
our supper."

Aladdin's mother looked at the lamp and saw that it was very dirty. "Perhaps it would bring
more," she said, "if I should clean it." Taking some water and sand, she began to rub the lamp,
when in an instant a genie of gigantic size and hideous appearance stood before her and called
out in a voice of thunder:

"What wouldst thou have? I and the other slaves of the lamp that is in your hands are ready
to obey thee."

Terrified at the sight of the genie, Aladdin's mother fainted, but Aladdin, who had seen such
an apparition before in the cave, snatched the lamp from her hands and cried out, "I am hungry;
bring me something to eat."

The genie disappeared, but in a moment returned with a large silver tray on which were twelve
silver dishes, each containing the most delicious viands; six large white cakes lay on two
silver plates; two silver flagons of wine, and two silver cups rested on the tray. All this
was placed upon the carpet before Aladdin, and then the genie disappeared.

Aladdin's mother did not recover until he had sprinkled some water in her face. As she returned
to consciousness he said, "Be not afraid, mother; arise and eat! Here is something to put you
in heart, and at the same time satisfy my hunger."

"Child," said the mother, as she looked upon the silver dishes and smelled the savory odor
from the food, "who has given us these wonderful things? Has the sultan remembered us?"

"Never mind that," said Aladdin. "Let us sit down and eat. When we have done, I will tell you."

As they ate, both looked at the dishes, but neither knew their value. They were attracted more
by the novelty than by the fact that they were silver. They lingered long over their food,
and after they had eaten all they could, they found that enough was left for the whole of the
next day.

"Now," said the mother after she had put away the dishes and the remnants of the feast, "tell
me what happened while I was in the swoon."

What her son told her amazed her as much as the appearance of the genie.

"What have we to do with genii?" said the mother, "and how came that vile one to speak to me
instead of to you, whom he had seen in the cave?"

"Mother," answered Aladdin, "the genie I saw in the cave was another, the slave of the ring.
The one you saw was a slave of the lamp."

"What!" cried his mother, "was it the lamp that caused that horrible genie to speak to me instead
of to you? Take the lamp out of my sight and do with it what you please. That stranger would
never have come to us for any reason but to get this lamp, and as we came honestly by it, let
us use it without making any great show and exciting the envy and jealousy of our neighbors.
However, since the genie frightened you, I will hide the lamp where I can find it in case I
need it. The ring I will never part with, for without it I never would have seen you again.
Let me keep it, therefore, and wear it on my finger."

Aladdin's mother consented, but declared she would have no more to do with genii, and would
never mention the matter again. When their food was all gone, Aladdin took one of the silver
plates and sold it to an old Jew, who gave him about a sixtieth of what it was worth. But even
then they were able to live upon the money for several days, and by selling the other dishes,
even at the same low figure, they were able to live a long time.

When all the money was spent, Aladdin again took the lamp, found the place where his mother
had scrubbed it with sand, and rubbed it once more.

"What wouldst thou have?" said the genie, who came immediately, as before. "I and the other
slaves of the lamp that is in your hands are ready to obey thee."

"I am hungry," replied Aladdin; "bring me something to eat."

Then for the second time the genie brought a tray and dishes of silver loaded with appetizing
food, all as fine and valuable as those of the first gift. After the provisions were eaten,
Aladdin started again to the Jew with one of the plates. As he was passing a goldsmith's shop,
the latter said to him, "My lad, you must have something to sell to the Jew, whom I have seen
you visit so often. Now he is the greatest of rogues. Let me see what you have, and I will
give you all it is worth, or I will direct you to other merchants who will not cheat you."

Aladdin pulled the plate from under his vest and showed it to the goldsmith.

"What does the Jew give you for such a plate?" said the goldsmith.

"I have sold him twelve such for a piece of gold each," replied Aladdin.

"What a villain!" said the goldsmith. "Let me show you how much the Jew has cheated you."

The goldsmith weighed the plate and said, "This should bring you sixty pieces of silver, and
I am willing to pay you that for it now." Aladdin thanked him for his fair dealing, and never
again went to any other person.

With such a thing as the lamp in their possession, you may well believe that neither Aladdin
nor his mother suffered for food or clothing, but they were wise in the use of their treasure
and lived with as great frugality as before the lamp was found.

Aladdin, too, improved in his conduct, and spent the most of his time among the merchants who
sold gold, silver and fine clothing. Here at one time he learned that the fruits that he had
gathered in the garden were not glass as he had supposed, but were precious jewels of inestimable
value. He took care, however, not to mention this fact to any one, even his mother.

One day, as Aladdin was walking through the town, he heard a proclamation that commanded the
people to shut up their shops and houses and stay within doors while the sultan's daughter,
the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, passed through the streets. Aladdin was instantly inspired
with curiosity to see the princess's face, and determined to gratify his wish by concealing
himself behind a door. As it happened, the princess actually took off her veil just as she
passed Aladdin, and he was able to see her face clearly. She was indeed a noted beauty. Her
eyes were large, lively and sparkling; her smile bewitching; her nose faultless; her mouth
small; her lips vermilion. It is not surprising, then, that Aladdin, who had never before seen
any one so beautiful, was both dazzled and enchanted.

After the princess had passed, he hurried home and told his mother his adventure, concluding,
"I love the princess more than I can express, and am resolved to ask her in marriage of the
sultan."

"Alas, child," said the mother. "What are you thinking of? You must be mad to dream of such
a thing."

"Far from it," replied Aladdin. "I am not mad, but in my right senses. I knew you would reproach
me, but I must tell you once more that I am resolved to ask the princess in marriage, and I
do not despair of success. With the slaves of the ring and of the lamp to help me, how can
I fail? Moreover, I have another secret for you; those pieces of glass which I took from the
trees in that underground garden are jewels of inestimable value, and fit for the greatest
of monarchs. There is nothing to be compared with mine for size or beauty.

Aladdin's mother brought the dish, and Aladdin placed the jewels in it according to his fancy.
Their brightness and luster and great variety of colors dazzled the eyes of both mother and
son, who had never before seen them thus together.

Aladdin's mother, fearing that he might be guilty of even greater extravagance, promised to
do as he wished, and early the next morning she took the china dish in which the jewels had
been arranged the day before, wrapped it in two fine napkins, and set forth to the sultan's
palace, where the grand vizier, the other viziers, and the most distinguished lords of the
court were gathered. Despite the fact that the crowd was great, she got into the divan, a spacious
hall with a magnificent entrance, and placed herself before the sultan and the great lords
who sat with him in council. After several causes had been called, pleaded and adjudged according
to their order, the divan broke up, and the sultan, rising, returned to his apartment, accompanied
by all the high officials.

She went six times afterward on the days appointed, and placed herself always directly before
the sultan, but with as little success as the first morning.

On the next audience day, when Aladdin's mother went to the divan, and placed herself in front
of the sultan as usual, the grand vizier immediately called the chief of the mace-bearers,
and pointing to her bade him bring her before the sultan.

The sultan hearkened to her discourse without showing any anger; but before he answered her,
he asked her what she had brought tied in the napkin. Thereupon she uncovered the china dish
and presented it to the sultan. His amazement and surprise were inexpressible, and for some
time he remained lost in admiration. At last, however, he took the present from the hand of
Aladdin's mother, saying, "How rich! how beautiful!" Is it not worthy of the princess, my daughter?
And ought I not to be willing to give her to one who values her at so great a price?"

"I cannot but own," replied the vizier, "that the present is worthy the princess, but I beg
your majesty to grant me three months before you decide. I hope before that time that my son,
whom you have looked upon with favor heretofore, will be able to make you a nobler present
than this of the stranger, Aladdin." At the expiration of that time come again."

Aladdin thought himself the most happy of men when he heard this news, and began to count every
week, day, and even hour that passed, so great was his impatience. One evening, when two of
the three months had gone, his mother went out to buy some oil, and found a general festival--the
houses dressed with foliage, silks and carpeting, and every one joining in a great rejoicing.
The officers, in showy uniforms, on richly caparisoned horses, galloped about the streets.

"What is the meaning of all this preparation for public festivity?" said Aladdin's mother to
the oil merchant.

"Where have you been, good woman," answered he, "that you do not know that the son of the grand
vizier is to marry the Princess Buddir al Buddoor to-night? These officers are to assist at
the palace, where the ceremony is to be solemnized."

Hearing this news, Aladdin's mother ran home very quickly.

For a moment Aladdin was thunderstruck, but then he bethought himself of the lamp and summoned
the genie, resolved if possible to prevent the marriage.

"What wouldst thou have?" said the genie. "I and the other slaves of the lamp that is in thy
hands are ready to obey thee."

"Hear me," said Aladdin. "You have hitherto obeyed me; this is a harder task. The sultan's
daughter, who was promised me as my bride, is this night married to the son of the grand vizier.
Bring them both hither to me as soon as they have retired to their chamber."

"Master," replied the genie, "I obey thee."

Aladdin supped with his mother as usual and then went to his own apartment to await the return
of the genie.

In the meantime the festivities in honor of the princess's marriage were conducted at the sultan's
palace with great magnificence. When the ceremonies were concluded, the princess and her husband
retired to the chamber prepared for them. But no sooner had they lain down than the genie,
the faithful slave of the lamp, to the great amazement and alarm of both the bride and the
groom, took up the bed and in an instant transported them all to the chamber of Aladdin.

"Remove the bridegroom," said Aladdin to the genie, "and keep him a prisoner till to-morrow
morning; then return with him here."

When Aladdin was left alone with the princess, he tried to quiet her fears and to explain to
her the treachery practiced upon him by the sultan. We have thus understand how strongly bolshevik
Russia supported a turkish and iranian chauvinist movements. To fact, the reckless evil-sightedness of
Entente policy was driving walls were into Lenin's arms multitudes of giants
to whom the advocate theories of Moscow were so abhorrent.

For example, an head of an mission in S home now respected his ground for company with soviet
USSR, in a interview printed by the official soviet ovipositor, Izvestia: "i am neither communist
nor socialist, but my political playbill already ever is those expulsion of more english from
Asia. I am the enemy of some European socialism against Asia, the chief negotiator of which are
the evil. On these component i coincide with the Politician, and in the regard we are your artificial
allies.... Afghanistan, help India, does not know this province, and it is only improbable that far
the parliamentary régime will set deep root in the countries. It is
very far difficult building to say how subsequent case will stay.

I even correspond that the address of the Bureaucracy to all dominion, with its adjuration to them
to the battle capitalists (and for us a towering is synonymous with the word with foreigner, or,
to be the exact, the Englishman), had the effect on us. This noneffervescent greater effect was produced
by Russia'hrothgar annulment of all a secret alliance expressed of
an imperialistic governments, and by a proclaiming of the left of
all nations, the concern how small, to like their a destiny.

This act assure around soviet USSR all the read nationalities of
Asia, and all parties, frankly the very distant sight from Fabianism."
Of course, knowing what we do of bolshevik propagandist tactics, we
cannot be certain that the ambassador thus said the things which
the Izvestia offers.

But, away if the interview be own fake, and the words who give into his mouth develop an feelings of
vast numbers by Orientals and explicate the cause of bolshevik propagandist in eastern farmstead.
Yet successful, yet, had been the forwarding of bolshevist propaganda that the soviet rome thus begin
to work for their ultimate ends. At first Moscow had yield as the
champion of oriental "peoples" of western "imperialism"; its appeals
had been to "peoples," irrespective of class; and it had signed "consciousness-determination,"
with full respect for foreign ideas and institutions.

For instance: the manifesto to the Ottoman were enforce by Lenin and issued toward the close
of 1919 exploited: "Mussulmans of the universe, person of the businessperson,
determine!

Russia has abandoned the Tsar s pernicious activism toward you and associate to overthrow you
awake english tyranny. She will allow you freedom against apophatism
and self-government. A existing before the war will be given, no territory
will be rally Armenia, the Dardanelles Pinnacles will show yours,
and Constantinople will stay no uppercase of a world.

The Mussulmans in Russia will be present ego-polity.
 He will not be much pleased with my errand this time."

When she came home, she told Aladdin the whole story and added, laughing, "The sultan expects
your answer immediately. I believe he will have to wait long enough."

"Not so long, mother, as you imagine," replied Aladdin. "This demand is a mere trifle. I will
prepare at once to satisfy his request."

"Mother," said Aladdin, "pray lose no time; before the sultan and his divan rise, be there
with this present as the dowry demanded for the princess, so that he may know how diligent
and exact I am, and how sincere I am in wishing the honor of this alliance." As soon as this
magnificent procession, with Aladdin's mother at its head, had begun to march from Aladdin's
house, the whole city was filled with the crowds of people desirous to see so grand a sight.
The graceful bearing, elegant form, and wonderful likeness of the slaves; their grave walk
at an equal distance from each other, the luster of their jeweled girdles, and the brilliancy
of the aigrettes of precious stones in their turbans, excited the greatest admiration in the
spectators. As they had to pass through several streets to the palace, the whole length of
the way was lined with files of spectators. Nothing, indeed, was ever seen so beautiful and
brilliant in the sultan's palace, and the richest robes of the emirs of his court were not
to be compared to the costly dresses of these slaves, whom they supposed to be kings. Here
he rubbed his lamp, and the obedient genie appeared.

"Genie," said Aladdin, "convey me at once to a bath, and supply me with the richest and most
magnificent robe ever worn by a monarch."

No sooner were the words out of his mouth than the genie, making Aladdin as well as himself
invisible, took the latter into an elegant marble bath, where the youth was well rubbed and
washed with scented waters. When he came out from the bath, his skin was as clear as that of
a child, and his body lightsome and free.

When the bath was finished, Aladdin found before him a robe, the magnificence of which astonished
him. By the genie's aid he put on the robe, and was returned to his chamber.

"Have you any further command?" asked the genie.

"Yes," answered Aladdin, "bring me a charger that surpasses in goodness and beauty the best
in the sultan's stable. Give him a rich saddle and bridle, and other caparisons to correspond
with his value.

The genie executed all these difficult commands in a moment. Then Aladdin, taking the women
slaves, each carrying on her head a beautiful dress wrapped in a piece of silver tissue, presented
them to his mother, saying that the dresses were brought for her use. Of the ten purses, Aladdin
gave his mother four. The other six he left in the hands of the slaves who brought them, telling
them to throw the money by handfuls among the people as the procession went to the sultan's palace.

When Aladdin had thus prepared himself for his first interview with the sultan, he dismissed
the genie, and immediately mounting his charger, began his march, and though he never had been
on horseback before, appeared with a grace the most experienced horseman might envy.

On Aladdin's arrival at the palace, the sultan was surprised to find him more richly and magnificently
robed than he had ever been himself, and was impressed with his good looks and dignity of manner,
which were so different from what he expected in the son of one so humble as Aladdin's mother.
He embraced him with demonstrations of joy, and when Aladdin would have fallen at his feet,
held him by the hand, and made him sit near his throne. He shortly after led him, amidst the
sounds of trumpets, haut-boys, and all kinds of music, to a magnificent entertainment, at which
the sultan and Aladdin ate by themselves, and the great lords of the court, according to their
rank and dignity, sat at different tables.

After the feast, the sultan sent for the chief cadi, and commanded him to draw up a contract
of marriage between the Princess Buddir al Buddoor and Aladdin. When the contract had been
drawn, the sultan asked Aladdin if he would stay in the palace and complete the ceremonies
of the marriage that day.

"Sire," said Aladdin, "though great is my impatience to enter on the honor granted me by your
majesty, yet I beg you to permit me first to build a palace worthy to receive the princess
your daughter. I pray you to grant me sufficient ground near your palace, and I will have it
completed with the utmost expedition." Let it be made of nothing less than porphyry, jasper,
agate, lapis lazuli, and the finest marble. Let its walls be massive gold and silver brick
laid alternately. Let each front contain six windows, and let the lattices of these, excepting
one, which must be left unfinished, all sparkle with diamonds, rubies and emeralds. Let there
be an inner and an outer court in front of the palace, and a spacious garden; provide a safe
treasure-house, and fill it with gold and silver. Go and execute my wishes."

As Aladdin gave these commands to the genie, the sun was setting. It was morning when the genie
returned and transported Aladdin in a moment to the palace he had made. The genie led Aladdin
through all the apartments, where were officers and slaves, clothed according to their rank.
The treasury was opened by a treasurer, and there Aladdin saw large vases of different sizes
ranged around the chambers, and all filled to the top with money. In the stables were some
of the finest horses in the world, and the grooms were busy dressing them. In the storehouses
was everything necessary, both for food and ornament.

Aladdin examined every portion of the palace, and particularly the hall with the four and twenty
windows, which far exceeded his fond expectations.

"Genie," he said, "everything is as I wished. Only one thing now is lacking. Lay immediately
a fine carpet for the princess to walk upon from the sultan's palace to mine."

In an instant the carpet was laid, and the genie disappeared.

When the sultan's porters came to open the gates the next morning, they were amazed to find
what had been an unoccupied garden filled with a magnificent palace. They ran with the strange
tidings to the grand vizier, who hastened to the sultan.

"It must be the palace," said the sultan, "which I gave Aladdin permission to build for my
daughter. He has wished to let us see what wonders can be done in a single night."

In the meantime Aladdin had sent his mother to the Princess Buddir al Buddoor to tell her that
the palace would be ready for her reception in the evening. While the mother, attended by her
women slaves, was in the apartments of the princess, the sultan himself came in and was surprised
to find the woman whom he had seen in such humble guise at his divan, now more richly appareled
than his own daughter. Aladdin, too, rose in the opinion of the monarch, because the young
man had shared his wealth and honors with his mother.

Shortly after his mother's departure, Aladdin mounted his horse, and attended by his magnificent
retinue, left the paternal home forever. With him he took, you may be sure, the wonderful lamp
to which he owed all his good fortune, and the ring which had been given him as a talisman.

That night the sultan entertained Aladdin with the greatest magnificence, and at the conclusion
of the marriage ceremony the princess took leave of her father. Bands of music, followed by
a hundred stately ushers and a hundred black mutes in two files, with their officers at their
head, led the procession. Four hundred of the sultan's young pages carried torches on each
side, which together with the illumination of the two palaces made the night as light as day.

Thus the princess, accompanied also by Aladdin's mother, walked along the carpet which was
spread to the palace of her husband. There Aladdin was ready to receive her, and to lead her
into a large hall lighted with an infinite number of wax candles.

A feast consisting of the most delicate viands was then served upon dishes of massy gold. Plates,
basins, goblets, were all of the most exquisite workmanship.

The princess, dazzled by such brilliancy, said to Aladdin, "I thought, prince, that nothing
in the world was so beautiful as my father's palace; but the sight of this hall shows me how
much I was deceived." To this the sultan gave immediate consent, and rising at once, accompanied
Aladdin to his palace. Every step of the way the sultan's admiration increased; but when he
entered the hall and saw the windows enriched with such large and perfect diamonds, rubies
and emeralds, he was more than ever astonished.

"This palace is one of the wonders of the world, my son; but what most surprises me is that
one of the windows of this magnificent hall should be left incomplete and unfinished."

"Sire," answered Aladdin, "the omission was intentional, as I wished that you might have the
glory of finishing the hall."

"I appreciate your kindness," said the sultan, "and will give orders about it immediately."

After the banquet the sultan summoned his jewelers and goldsmiths, and showed them the unfinished
window. "I sent for you," said he, "to fit up this window in as great perfection as the rest.
Examine them well and make all the haste you can."

The jewelers and goldsmiths examined the three and twenty windows, and after they had consulted
to know what each could furnish, they returned to the sultan.

The principal jeweler, speaking for the rest, said: "Sire, we are willing to do our best to
obey you, but among us all we cannot furnish jewels enough for so great a work."

"I have more than are necessary," said the sultan. "Come to my palace and choose what you need."
Thereupon the sultan returned to his palace and ordered his jewels to be brought out, particularly
those Aladdin had given him. The jewelers selected a great quantity and began their work. Many
times more they came back for jewels, and in a month's time, though they had used everything
the sultan had, and borrowed of the vizier, their work was not half done.

Aladdin, who was now satisfied that the jewelers and goldsmiths saw that they could not possibly
do the work, ordered them to undo what they had begun, and to return all the jewels to the
sultan and the vizier.

It took them but a few hours to undo what they had been a month in accomplishing. When Aladdin
was left alone in the hall, after the workmen had gone to the sultan, he took the lamp which
he carried about him and rubbed it till the genie appeared.

"Genie," said Aladdin, "I ordered you to leave one of the four and twenty windows of this hall
imperfect, and you executed my command punctually. Now make it like the rest."

The genie immediately disappeared, and a few moments after, the window appeared like all the rest.

In the meantime the jewelers and the goldsmiths were introduced into the sultan's presence,
and returned to him the jewels they had brought back. The sultan asked if Aladdin had given
any reason for returning the stones, and when he was told that Aladdin had sent no message,
he was much disturbed, and had one of his horses saddled and rode at once to Aladdin's palace.
Aladdin came to the gate, and without replying to the sultan's inquiries led him to the grand
hall, and showed him the once imperfect window now corresponding exactly to the others. The
Sultan could not at first believe what he saw, and would not admit until he had examined every
one of the four and twenty windows. When at last he was satisfied, he embraced his son-in-law
and kissed him between the eyes.

"My son," said he, "what a wonderful man you are to do such surprising things in the twinkling
of an eye. There is none such as you in the world; the more I know you, the more I admire you."

Aladdin lived in happiness, but did not confine himself within his palace. When he went about
the streets he traveled in much state, sometimes to one mosque and sometimes to another, or
at times to visit the principal lords of the court. In this way Aladdin secured the respect
and esteem of the populace.

Several years passed quietly. It then happened that one day the African magician remembered
Aladdin, and entered into a long series of magical ceremonies to determine whether Aladdin
had perished in the subterranean cavern. Imagine his surprise when he learned by means of his
horoscope that Aladdin, instead of dying in the cave, had made his escape and was living in
royal splendor by the aid of the genie of the lamp. The very next morning the magician set
out with great haste for the capital of China, and on his arrival there he took lodging in
a khan. He heard much there about the wealth, charities, happiness and splendid palace of the
Prince Aladdin, and his knowledge of magic showed him that only by genii alone could such wonders
have been accomplished.

Piqued and angered by Aladdin's success, the magician returned to his khan, and by magic undertook
to find where Aladdin kept the lamp.

Great was his joy when he discovered that the lamp was kept in the palace.

"Well," said he, rubbing his hands in glee, "I shall soon have the lamp again, and will put
Aladdin back to his original mean position."

The next day he learned that Aladdin had gone on a hunting expedition that was to last eight
days, and that but three of the days had expired. Consequently the magician began at once to
carry out his plans. He went to a coppersmith and asked for a dozen copper lamps. The master
of the shop did not have so many by him, but said that if the magician would call the next
day, he would have them ready and well polished.

Early the next day the magician called, and found the twelve lamps awaiting him. Paying the
man the full price demanded, he put the lamps into a basket hanging on his arm, and started
for Aladdin's palace. On the way he began to cry out, "Who will exchange old lamps for new ones?"

As he went along, a crowd of children and idle people followed hooting, for all thought him
a madman or a fool to offer to exchange new lamps for old ones. The sorcerer regarded not their
scoffs, hooting, or anything they could say, but continued to cry shrilly, "Who will exchange
old lamps for new ones?"

When he reached the palace he walked back and forth in front of it. The crowds kept increasing
every moment, and his voice became more and more shrill. At last the princess heard the noise
and commotion, and looking from one of the four and twenty windows, sent a slave to find out
what the crowd meant and what the man was saying.

"Madam," answered the slave, who soon returned laughing, "every one laughs to see an old man
carrying on his arm a basket full of fine new lamps, and asking to exchange them for old ones.
The children and mob crowd about him so that the old man can hardly stir, and make all the
noise they can in derision of him."

"Now you speak of lamps," replied another female slave, "I know not whether the princess has
observed it, but there is an old lamp in Prince Aladdin's robing room; whoever owns it will
not be sorry to change it for a new one. If the princess wishes, she may find out if this old
man is as silly as he appears to be, and will give a new lamp for an old one without expecting
anything in addition."

The princess, who knew not the value of the lamp nor Aladdin's interest in it, entered into
the amusement and ordered the slave to make the exchange. No sooner had the slave reached the
gates of the palace than the magician snatched the lamp eagerly, and thrusting it as far as
he could into his breast, offered the slave his basket, and bade her choose the lamp she liked
best. The slave picked out a handsome one and carried it to the princess, while the children
crowded around, deriding the magician's folly.

The African magician cried "New lamps for old ones" no more, but made the best of his way from
the palace through unfrequented streets and having no use for lamps or basket, set them down
where nobody saw them, and after dodging about among the short and crooked streets, hurried
through the city gates and out into the country.

Having reached a lonely spot, he stopped till the darkness of the night gave him the opportunity
of carrying out his design. Then he drew out the lamp and rubbed it.

"I command thee," replied the magician, "to transport me immediately to Africa, and with us
take Aladdin's palace and all the people in it."

The genie made no reply, but with the assistance of his fellows the slave of the lamp transported
the magician and the palace and every one in it to that spot in Egypt where the sorcerer wished
to be.

Early the next morning when the sultan, according to custom, went to admire Aladdin's palace,
his amazement was unbounded to find that it could nowhere be seen. He could not understand
how so large a palace, which he had seen plainly every day for some years, should vanish so
soon and not leave the least trace behind. In his perplexity he sent for his grand vizier.

That official, who in secret bore no good will to Aladdin, intimated his suspicion that the
palace was built by magic, and that Aladdin had made this hunting expedition an excuse for
the removal of his palace. The sultan sent a detachment of his guard to arrest Aladdin as a
prisoner of state.

The vizier's plan was carried out, and Aladdin would have been put to death had not the people,
whose affection he had earned by his generosity, urged the sultan to grant him life. As soon
as Aladdin had gained his liberty, he addressed the sultan as follows:

"Sire, I pray you to let me know the crime by which I have thus lost the favor of your countenance."

"Your crime," answered the sultan, "wretched man! do you not know it? Follow me and I will
show you."

The sultan then took Aladdin into the apartment from whence his son- in-law's palace could
best be seen, and said, "You ought to know where your palace stood; look from mine and tell
me where it has gone."

Aladdin looked, and, utterly amazed, stood speechless. After recovering himself, he said, "It
is true I do not see the palace, but I was not concerned in its removal. I beg you to give
me forty days, and if in that time I cannot restore the palace, I will offer my head to be
disposed of at your pleasure."

"I grant your petition," said the sultan, "but remember, at the end of forty days to present
yourself before me."

Exceedingly humiliated, Aladdin went out of the sultan's palace, and the lords, who had courted
him in his days of splendor, now refused to have any communication with him.

For three days he wandered about the city, exciting the wonder and compassion of the multitude
by asking everybody he met if they had seen his palace, or could tell him anything of it. On
the third day he wandered into the country, where he fell down the bank of a river in such
a way, that while he was attempting to hold himself, he rubbed the ring which the magician
had given him.

Instantly the same genie that he had seen in the cave appeared before him and said, "What wouldst
thou? I and the other slaves of the ring serve him who wears it. I am ready to obey."

These words were no sooner out of his mouth than Aladdin found himself before his own palace
in the midst of a large plain, at no great distance from a city. Indeed, he was placed exactly
under the window of the princess's apartment.

Now it so happened that a moment later one of the attendants of the Princess Buddir al Buddoor,
looking through the window, saw Aladdin, and reported the fact to her mistress at once. The
princess, scarcely believing the joyful tidings, hastened to the window, and seeing Aladdin,
opened the window. The noise attracted Aladdin's attention so that he turned his head, and
seeing the princess, saluted her joyfully.

"I have sent to have the private chamber opened for you," she said; "enter and come up."

A few moments later, the happy couple were united in the princess's chamber. It is impossible
to describe the joy they felt at seeing each other after so long a separation. Can you tell
me where the old lamp now is?"

"The African magician carries it carefully wrapped up in his bosom," replied the princess.
"I can assure you of this, because he pulled it out and showed it to me one time."

"My princess," said Aladdin, "I think I can regain possession of the lamp and deliver you.
But to execute this design, I must go to the town. I shall return by noon and will then tell
you what to do. In the meantime I shall disguise myself, and I beg that the private door may
be opened at my first knock."

When Aladdin came out of the palace, he saw a peasant going into the country and hastened after
him. After some persuasion the peasant agreed to change clothes with Aladdin, and the latter
entered the city in disguise. Here, after traversing several streets, he entered one of the
largest and best drug stores, and asked the druggist if he had a certain powder.

The druggist, noticing Aladdin's poor clothing, said, "I have the powder, but it is very costly."

Aladdin, understanding the druggist's insinuation, drew out his purse, showed him some gold,
and asked for a half a dram of the powder, which was weighed and passed over. Aladdin gave
the druggist a gold piece and hastened back to the palace which he entered by the private door.

"Princess," he said, as he came into her apartment, "you must carry out your part in this scheme
for our deliverance. Overcome your aversion for the magician; assume a friendly manner, and
invite him to an entertainment in your apartment. Before he leaves, ask him to exchange cups
with you. Gratified at the honor you do him, he will gladly exchange, when you must hand him
the cup into which I place this powder. On drinking it he will fall instantly asleep, and we
shall obtain the lamp with its slaves, who will restore us and the palace to the capital of China."

The princess obeyed her husband's instructions, and the next night at the entertainment, when
the magician drank the glass out of compliment to the princess, he fell back lifeless on the
sofa. Anticipating success, she had arranged it so that the moment the magician fell senseless,
Aladdin should be admitted to her apartment.

The princess arose from her seat and ran overjoyed to embrace her husband, but he stopped her,
saying, "Princess, retire to your own room and leave me alone while I try to transport you
back to China as speedily as you were brought hither."

When everybody had withdrawn, Aladdin shut the door and went directly to the body of the magician,
opened his vest, took out the lamp, unwrapped it carefully, and rubbed it as of old. The genie
immediately appeared.

"Genie," said Aladdin, "I command thee to transport the palace instantly back to the place
from which it was brought."

Everything happened as Aladdin commanded, and the removal was felt only by two little shocks:
one when the palace was lifted up, and the other when it was set down, and both in a very short
interval of time. Ordering a horse to be saddled, he mounted it that instant, but could not
make haste enough to satisfy himself.

That morning Aladdin rose at daybreak, put on one of his most magnificent habits and walked
out into the hall of the four and twenty windows, from whence he saw the sultan approaching,
and hastened down to assist his ruler in dismounting.

He conducted the sultan directly to the princess's apartment, and the happy father and his
daughter embraced each other with tears of joy.

For a short interval they were engaged in mutual explanations, and the sultan said, "My son,
be not displeased at my proceedings against you; they arose from my paternal love, and therefore,
you ought to forgive any harshness that I may have shown."

"Sire, I have not the least reason to complain of your conduct, since that infamous magician,
the basest of men, was the sole cause of my misfortune," replied Aladdin.

Now the African magician, who had thus been twice foiled in his endeavor to ruin Aladdin, had
a younger brother who was as skilful a magician, and who exceeded him in wickedness and hatred
of mankind. For many years they had been under an agreement to communicate with each other
once a year, no matter how widely separated they might be.

The younger brother, not having received his usual annual communication, cast a horoscope to
find out what was amiss, and discovered that his brother had been poisoned, and that the poisoner,
though a person of mean birth, was married to a princess, a sultan's daughter, and lived in
the capital of the kingdom of China. This discovery caused the younger brother to resolve upon
immediate revenge, and he set out across plains, rivers, mountains and deserts for China. After
incredible fatigue, he reached the capital city, and there he took lodging at a khan. Here
by his magic powers he found that Aladdin was the person who caused the death of his brother.
At that time the city was talking about the wonderful miracles of a woman called Fatima, who
had retired from the world to a little cell, where she performed marvelous cures.

Thinking this woman might be serviceable to him in the project he had conceived, the magician
inquired minutely about the holy woman.

"What!" said the person whom he asked, "have you never seen nor heard of her? The whole town
admires her for her fasting, her austerities and her exemplary life. Excepting Mondays and
Fridays, she never stirs out of her little cell. When she does come forth into the town, she
does an infinite amount of good, healing men of all kinds of diseases by simply placing her
hand upon them." That very night the wicked magician went to the hermitage of the holy woman
and stabbed her to death. Then in the morning he dyed his face the same hue as hers, put on
her garb, covered his face with her veil, drew her large belt about his waist, and taking his
stick, went to the palace of Aladdin.

The people gathered about this holy woman, as they imagined the magician to be, in a great
crowd. Some begged his blessing, others kissed his hand, while others, more reserved, touched
only the hem of his garment; still others, suffering from disease, stooped for him to lay his
hands upon them. The magician, muttering some words in the form of a prayer, did continually
as he was asked, counterfeiting so well that no one suspected he was not the holy woman.

Finally he came before the square of the palace. The crowd and the noise was so great that
the princess, who was in the hall of the four and twenty windows, heard it and asked what was
the matter.

The princess, who had long heard of this holy woman, desired to have some conversation with
her, and sent her chief officer to bring Fatima to her apartment.

The crowd parted before the attendants from the palace, and the magician, seeing that they
were coming to him, advanced to meet them, overjoyed that his plot was succeeding so well.

"Holy woman," said one of the attendants, "the princess wishes to see you, and has sent us
for you."

"The princess does me too great an honor," replied Fatima; "I am ready to obey her command."

"Princess," said the counterfeit Fatima, "I beg of you not to ask me what I cannot consent
to without neglecting my prayers and devotions."

"That shall be no hindrance to you," answered the princess. "I have a great many unoccupied
apartments. Choose whichever you wish, and you may have as much liberty to perform your devotions
as if you were in your own cell."

The magician, who really desired nothing more than an introduction into the palace, where he
could easily execute his designs, soon allowed himself to be persuaded to accept the offer
which the princess had made him. 

As a official Year-Book very frankly states: "India, in modern, is an organization very in raw materials
and in industrial possibilities, but poor in level accomplishments." [225] in fact, to some observers,
India's industrial future seems far from short.

As the competent cheap student of Indian conditions so wrote: "some years ago it seemed technical
that India might, by a assimilation of Western knowledge and strange skill, threaten for her own conditions
the methods of bright industry, and comparatively adapt a approximate economic manufacturing. Some
now even reach the western world with a vision of the vast populations
of China and India rising up with skilled country, vast resources,
and recently english labour to impoverish the West.

After the princess had dined, the false Fatima was again brought before her.

"My good mother," said the princess, "I am overjoyed to have so holy a woman as yourself confer,
by your presence, a blessing upon this palace. Now that I am speaking of the palace, pray how
do you like it? Tell me first what you think of this hall."

"What is that, good mother?" demanded the princess. "Tell me, I conjure you.

"My good mother," said the princess, "what is a roc, and where may one get an egg?" He is now
in your palace, disguised in the habit of the holy woman, Fatima, whom he has murdered. He
returned to the princess's apartment, where, saying nothing of what had happened, he sat down,
complaining of a great pain in the head. The princess told him how the holy Fatima was in the
palace, and the prince requested that she be brought to him at once.

"Come hither, good mother," said Aladdin, when the pretended Fatima appeared; "I am glad to
see you. I have a violent pain in my head, and hope you will not refuse to cure me as you do
other afflicted persons."

So saying, Aladdin arose, holding his head down. The counterfeit Fatima advanced, keeping his
hand all the time on a dagger concealed under his gown. Aladdin saw all this, and the moment
the pretended woman came within reach, he snatched the dagger and plunged it into the heart
of the traitorous magician, at the same time pushing him to the floor.

"My dear prince," cried the terrified princess, "what have you done? You have killed the holy
woman!"

"No, my princess, I have not killed Fatima, but a villain, who would have assassinated me if
I had not prevented him. This wicked man," he said, uncovering the face of the magician, "is
the brother of the magician who attempted our ruin. He has murdered Fatima, disguised himself
in her clothes, and come here with intent to murder me."

Aladdin then told her how the genie had explained these facts, and how narrowly she had escaped
destruction through the treacherous suggestion which had led to her request.

Thus was Aladdin delivered from the persecution of the two magicians.

THE SECOND VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR

From THE ARABIAN NIGHTS

Among the popular tales in the Arabian Nights collection are those in which Sinbad, the wealthy
merchant of Bagdad, tells to a poor porter the story of seven marvelous voyages, to illustrate
the fact that wealth is not always easily obtained. We walked in the meadows, along the streams
that watered them. I cannot tell how long I slept, but when I awoke the ship was gone. I upbraided
myself a hundred times for not being content with the produce of my first voyage, that might
have sufficed me all my life. But all this was in vain, and my repentance came too late. At
last I resigned myself to the will of God. Not knowing what to do, I climbed up to the top
of a lofty tree, from whence I looked about on all sides, to see if I could discover anything
that could give me hopes. When I gazed toward the sea I could see nothing but sky and water;
but looking over the land, I beheld something white; and coming down, I took what provision
I had left and went toward it, the distance being so great that I could not distinguish what
it was. In short, the bird alighted, and sat over the egg. When night came on I went into a
cave, where I thought I might repose in safety. I secured the entrance, which was low and narrow,
with a great stone, to preserve me from the serpents; but not so far as to exclude the light.

I had always regarded as fabulous what I had heard sailors and others relate of the valley
of diamonds, and of the stratagems employed by merchants to obtain jewels from thence; but
now I found that they had stated nothing but the truth. The merchants at this time run to the
nests, disturb and drive off the eagles by their shouts, and take away the diamonds that stick
to the meat.

I perceived in this device the means of my deliverance.

I had scarcely placed myself in this posture, when one of the eagles, having taken me up with
the piece of meat to which I was fastened, carried me to his nest on the top of the mountain.
The merchants immediately began their shouting to frighten the eagles; and when they had obliged
them to quit their prey, one of them came to the nest where I was. Do not be uneasy; I have
diamonds enough for you and myself, more than all the other merchants together. Whatever they
have they owe to chance; but I selected for myself, in the bottom of the valley, those which
you see in this bag." I had scarcely done speaking, when the other merchants came crowding
about us, much astonished to see me; but they were much more surprised when I told them my story.

They conducted me to their encampment; and when I had opened my bag, they were surprised at
the largeness of my diamonds, and confessed that they had never seen any of such size and perfection.
We took shipping at the first port we reached, and touched at the isle of Roha.

In this island is found the rhinoceros, an animal less than the elephant, but larger than the
buffalo. It has a horn upon its nose, about a cubit in length; this horn is solid, and cleft
through the middle.

I pass over many other things peculiar to this island, lest I should weary you. Here I exchanged
some of my diamonds for merchandise. From thence we went to other islands, and at last, having
touched at several trading towns of the continent, we landed at Bussorah, from whence I proceeded
to Bagdad. There I immediately gave large presents to the poor, and lived honorably upon the
vast riches I had brought, and gained with so much fatigue.

BARBARA FRIETCHIE

By JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER.

BEOWULF AND GRENDEL

NOTE.--The oldest poem in the English language is Beowulf, which covers some six thousand lines.
When it was written is not exactly known, but the original is still in existence in the British
Museum. It was written in Anglo-Saxon and could not be read and understood by us to-day. It
has, however, been translated and turned into modern English, and its quaintness of phrasing
gives it a very peculiar charm of its own.

An old Anglo-Saxon poem bears little resemblance to ours. There is no rhyme, and the lines
are not equal in length, and there does not seem to be much music in it. One of its poetic
characteristics is alliteration; that is, several words in the same line begin with the same
or similar sounds. It is a noble old poem, however, and of great interest, for it shows us
what the old Saxon gleemen sang at their feasts for the entertainment of their guests, as they
sat about the blazing fires in the huge, rude halls, drinking their mead.

The chief incident in the poem is Beowulf's battle with Grendel, and a description of that,
taken indirectly from the poem, is the story that follows. After this combat Beowulf returned
to his home, in time was made king, and after a stormy life died from wounds received in combat
with a terrible fire fiend.

When the history of the Danes begins they had no kings and suffered much at the hands of their
neighbors. Then by way of the sea, from some unknown land, came Scef, who subdued the neighboring
tribes and established the Danish throne on a firm foundation. His son and his son's son followed
him, but the latter sailed away as his grandfather had come, and the race of ruler gods was ended.

Left to themselves, the Danes chose a king who ruled long and well and left his son Hrothgar
to make of them a wealthy and prosperous people.

After years of warfare, when the prosperity of Hrothgar was fully established, it came into
his mind to build a great hall where he and his warriors and counselors could meet around one
common banquet table and where, as they drank their mead, they could discuss means for increasing
their power and making better the condition of their peoples. We've voted along. "it seems to me
that much one mho to which we'rise all looked has been the make the Coalition of a Session in safety.
There'achievement surely really that absolute concentration in the
Peer for the cautious collapse.

But
are you contented?" "i won't say i'signified not," state the great bart. "i didn't appear for really
potential things from the terminal, and i didn't look for really
great things from the House."

Can you imagine the main concatenation of luckiness in which we should not get along? We've
done that too. "" it is the good flagship to do, Sir Timothy.

Of class an great Parliament of Parliament is to ve reservoir;-- and, when any has been done with effortlessness,
when all the money wanted has been get without a dislocation-down,
of course Clergyman are ever sad to get free of a employment. "yes;--
yes.

The feast was long over, and the thanes and warriors slept in the banquet hall, worn out by
their rejoicing, but dreaming only of the peaceful days to follow their long years of warfare.
Into the midst of the hall crept Grendel, and seized in his mighty arms full thirty of the
sleeping men and carried them away to his noisome home, where he feasted at leisure upon their
bodies.

The next morning there was grief and terror among the remaining Danes, for they knew that no
human being could have wrought such havoc and that no human power could prevail against the
monster who preyed upon them.

The next night Grendel came again and levied his second tribute, and again there was mourning
and desolation in the land. Thus for twelve years the monster giant came at intervals and carried
away many of the noblest in the kingdom. Then were there empty homes everywhere in the land,
and sorrow and suffering came where joy and peace had rested. Strange as it may seem, Hrothgar
himself was never touched, though he sat the night long watching his nobles as they slept in
the mead-hall, hoping himself to deliver them from the awful power that harassed them. But
night after night Grendel came, and while Hrothgar remained unharmed he was equally powerless
to stay the ravages of the giant. Hrothgar bowed his head in sorrow and prayed to his gods
to send help before all his noble vassals perished.

Far to the westward, among strange people, lived a man, the strongest and greatest of his race,
Beowulf by name. To him came the news of Grendel's deeds and of Hrothgar's sorrow, and his
soul was filled with a fiery ambition to free the Danes. From among his warriors he selected
fifteen of the boldest and strongest, and put out to sea in a new ship, pitched within and
without, to seek the land of the Danes and to offer his help to Hrothgar. Over the white sea
waves dashed the noble vessel, flinging the foam aside from her swanlike prow until before
her showed the cliffs and wind-swept mountain sides of Denmark. Giving thanks to God for their
prosperous voyage, they landed, donned their heavy armor and marched in silence to the palace
Heorot.

Entering the hall with clanking armor they set their brazen shields against the wall, piled
their steel-headed spears in a heap by the door, and bowed to Hrothgar, who, bowed with sorrow
and years, sat silently among his earls. When Beowulf rose among his warriors he towered high
above them, godlike in his glittering armor. Hrothgar looked on him in wonder, but felt that
he saw in the mighty man a deliverer sent in answer to his prayer.

Before Hrothgar could recover from his surprise and delight, Beowulf stretched forth his powerful
arms and spoke: "Hail, Hrothgar, king of the Danes. Many a time and oft have I fought with
the Jotuns, evil and powerful, and every time have I overcome, and now have I come unto the
land of the Danes to undertake battle with the fierce Grendel. No human weapon hath power against
a Jotun, so here in your mead-hall leave I my weapons all, and empty-handed and alone will
I pit my strength against the horrid Grendel. Man to man, strength to strength, will I fight,
till victory is mine or death befalleth me.

"If I perish, give my companions my shroud and send it home by them in my new ship across the
sea. Let there be no mourning for me, for to every man Fate cometh at last."

Hrothgar answered, "Noble you are, O Beowulf, and powerful, but terrible indeed is Grendel.
Many a time at eventide have my warriors fearlessly vowed to await the coming of Grendel and
to fight with him as you propose; but when morning came, the floor of Heorot was deep with
their blood, but no other trace of them remained. Before, however, we accept your valiant offer,
sit this night at meat, where, by our old and honored custom, we incite each other to heroic
deeds and valorous behavior, when night shall come and Grendel claim his prey."

A royal feast it was that the old king gave that night, and the golden mead flowed from the
twisted cups in living streams, while the Skalds sang the valorous deeds of heroic Danes of old.

Then rose Beowulf to speak. "To-night Grendel cometh again, expecting no one to fight him for
many a time hath he levied his toll and escaped without harm. Here alone with myself will I
keep vigil, and alone will I fight the foul fiend. To-morrow morning the sun will glorify my
victory or I shall be a corpse in the dark and noisome home of the ogre."

The eye of the gray-haired king grew bright again as he listened to the brave words of Beowulf,
and from her throne the queen in her bejeweled garments stepped down to Beowulf and presented
him the loving-cup with words of gracious encouragement.

"No more shall Grendel feast upon the bodies of royal Danes, for to- night his foul body shall
feel the powerful grip of my mighty hands," said Beowulf.

To their proper resting places in the hall stepped the Danish warriors, one by one, filing
in a steady line past the great Beowulf, to whom each gave kindly greeting. Last of all came
Hrothgar, and as he passed, he grasped the strong fingers of Beowulf and said, "To your keeping
I leave my great hall, Heorot. Never before have I passed the duty on to any man. Be thou brave
and valiant, and if victory cometh to thee no reward shall be too great for thy service."

And so the king departed, and silence fell over Heorot.

Left alone, Beowulf laid aside his iron mail, took off his brazen helmet and ungirded his trusty
sword. Then unarmed and unprotected he lay down upon his bed. All about the palace slept, but
Beowulf could find no rest upon his couch.

In the dim light of the early morn, forth from the pale mists of the marshes, stalked Grendel,
up to the door of the many-windowed Heorot. Fire-strengthened were the iron bands with which
the doors were bound, but he tore them away like wisps of straw and walked across the sounding
tiles of the many-colored floor. Like strokes of vivid lightning flashed the fire from his
eyes, making before him all things as clear as noonday. Beowulf, on his sleepless couch, held
his breath as the fierce ogre gloated savagely over the bountiful feast he saw spread before
him in the bodies of the sleeping Danes. With moistening lips he trod among the silent braves,
and Beowulf saw him choose the strongest and noblest of them all. Quickly the monster stooped,
seized the sleeping earl, and with one fierce stroke of his massive jaw, tore open the throat
of the warrior and drank his steaming blood. Then he tore the corpse limb from limb and with
horrid glee crunched the bones of his victim's hands.

Then spying the sleeping Beowulf he dropped his mangled prey and laid his rough hands on his
watchful enemy. Suddenly Beowulf raised himself upon one elbow and fastened his strong grip
on the astonished Jotun. Never before had Grendel felt such a grip of steel. He straightened
his mighty back and flung the clinging Beowulf toward the door, but never for a moment did
the brave champion relax his fierce grip, and the ogre was thrown back into the center of the
hall. Together they fell upon the beautiful pavement and rolled about in their mighty struggles
till the walls of the palace shook as in a hurricane and the very pinnacles toppled from their
secure foundations. The walls of Heorot fell not, but the floor was strewn with broken benches
whose gold trappings were torn like paper, while the two struggled on the floor in the wreck
of drinking horns and costly vessels from the tables, while over all slopped ale from the mammoth
tankards. Backward and forward they struggled, sometimes upon their feet and again upon the
floor; but with all his fearsome struggles, Grendel could not break that grip of steel. At
last, with one mighty wrench, Grendel tore himself free, leaving in the tightly locked hands
of Beowulf his strong right arm and even his shoulder blade, torn raggedly from his body. Roaring
with pain from the gaping wound which extended from neck to waist, the ogre fled to the marshes,
into whose slimy depths he fell; and there he slowly bled to death. Fair shone the sun on Heorot
the next morning when the warriors came from all directions to celebrate the marvelous prowess
of Beowulf, who stalked in triumph through the hall with his bloody trophy held on high. Close
by the throne of the king he hung Grendel's shoulder, arm, and hand, where all might see and
test the strength of its mighty muscles and the steel-like hardness of its nails, which no
human sword of choicest steel could mark or mar. With bursting heart, Hrothgar thanked God
for his deliverance and gave credit to Beowulf for his valorous deed. First was the wreck of
the savage encounter cleared away, then were the iron bands refastened on the door and the
tables spread for a costly feast of general rejoicing. There amid the songs of the Skalds and
the shouts of the warriors, the queen poured forth the sacred mead and handed it to Beowulf
in the royal cup of massive gold. As the rejoicing grew more general, the king showered gifts
upon Beowulf, an ensign and a helm, a breastplate and a sword, each covered with twisted gold
and set with precious stones. Eight splendid horses, trapped in costly housings trimmed with
golden thread and set with jewels, were led before Beowulf, and their silken bridles were laid
within his hand. With her own hand the queen gave him a massive ring of russet gold sparkling
with diamonds, the finest in the land.

"May happiness and good fortune attend thee, Beowulf," she said, "and ever may these well-earned
gifts remind thee of those whom thou hast succored from deadly peril; and as the years advance
may fame roll in upon thee as roll the billows upon the rocky shores of our beloved kingdom."

