Transcriber's note:

      Research indicates that the copyright on this book
      was not renewed.

THE BOUNTY OF THE CHESAPEAKE

Fishing in Colonial Virginia

by

JAMES WHARTON

      *      *      *      *      *

JAMESTOWN 350TH ANNIVERSARY HISTORICAL BOOKLETS

Editor--E. G. SWEM, Librarian Emeritus, College of William and Mary

COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS: JOHN M. JENNINGS, Director of the Virginia Historical Society, Richmond,
Virginia, Chairman. FRANCIS L. BERKELEY, JR., Archivist, Alderman Library, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia. LYMAN H. BUTTERFIELD, Editor-in-Chief of the Adams Papers, Boston,
Mass. EDWARD M. RILEY, Director of Research, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Williamsburg, Virginia.
E. G. SWEM, Librarian Emeritus, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia. WILLIAM
J. VAN SCHREEVEN, Chief, Division of Archives, Virginia State Library, Richmond, Virginia.

 1. A Selected Bibliography of Virginia, 1607-1699. By E. G. Swem,
John M. Jennings and James A. Servies.

 2. A Virginia Chronology, 1585-1783. By William W. Abbot.

 3. John Smith's Map of Virginia, with a Brief Account of its History.
By Ben C. McCary.

 4. The Three Charters of the Virginia Company of London, with Seven
Related Documents; 1606-1621. Introduction by Samuel M. Bemiss.

 5. The Virginia Company of London, 1606-1624. By Wesley Frank Craven.

 6. The First Seventeen Years, Virginia, 1607-1624. By Charles E.
Hatch, Jr.

 7. Virginia under Charles I and Cromwell, 1625-1660. By Wilcomb E.
Washburn.

 8. Bacon's Rebellion, 1676. By Thomas J. Wertenbaker.

 9. Struggle Against Tyranny and the Beginning of a New Era, Virginia,
1677-1699. By Richard L. Morton.

10. Religious Life of Virginia in the Seventeenth Century. By George MacLaren Brydon.

11. Virginia Architecture in the Seventeenth Century. By Henry Chandlee Forman.

12. Mother Earth--Land Grants in Virginia, 1607-1699. By W. Stitt Robinson, Jr.

13. The Bounty of the Chesapeake; Fishing in Colonial Virginia. By James Wharton.

14. Agriculture in Virginia, 1607-1699. By Lyman Carrier.

15. Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in Virginia, 1607-1699. By Susie M. Ames.

16. The Government of Virginia in the Seventeenth Century. By Thomas J. Wertenbaker.

17. Domestic Life in Virginia in the Seventeenth Century. By Annie Lash Jester.

18. Indians in Seventeenth-Century Virginia. By Ben C. McCary.

19. How Justice Grew. Virginia Counties. By Martha W. Hiden.

20. Tobacco in Colonial Virginia; "The Sovereign Remedy." By Melvin Herndon.

21. Medicine in Virginia, 1607-1699. By Thomas P. Hughes.

22. Some Notes on Shipping and Ship-building in Colonial Virginia. By Cerinda W. Evans.

23. A Pictorial Booklet on Early Jamestown Commodities and Industries. By J. Paul Hudson.

Price 50¢ Each

Printed in the United States of America

      *      *      *      *      *

THE BOUNTY OF THE CHESAPEAKE

Fishing in Colonial Virginia

by

JAMES WHARTON

The University Press of Virginia Charlottesville

Copyright© 1957 by Virginia 350th Anniversary Celebration Corporation, Williamsburg, Virginia

Second printing 1973

Jamestown 350th Anniversary Historical Booklet Number 13

FOREWORD

Just as a series of personal letters may constitute an autobiography, so the extracts from
Colonial writings that follow tell the unique story of the fisheries of Virginia's great Tidewater.
In them it is possible to trace the measured growth of a vital industry. The interspersed comments
of the compiler are to be understood as mere annotations. This is the testimony, then, of those
who from the beginning participated in one of the foremost natural resources of this country.

I gratefully acknowledge guidance in research to Mr. John C. Pearson of the U.S. Fish & Wildlife
Service, who masterfully surveyed the field and first brought the early fishery reports to
public notice.

JAMES WHARTON Weems, Virginia

THE BOUNTY OF THE CHESAPEAKE

The Bounty of The Chesapeake

The voyage to America in 1607 was like a journey to a star. Veteran rovers though the English
were, none of them had any clear idea of what to expect in the new land of Virginia. Only one
thing was certain: they would have nothing there but what they took with them or wrought from
the raw materials of the country.

What raw materials?

They had reliable information that the climate was mild. Therefore, crops could be raised.
They learned of inexhaustible timber: so ships and dwellings and industrial works could be
built. They hoped for gold and dreamed of access to uncharted lands of adventure. But putting
first things first, how would they eat in the meantime?

When Sir Walter Raleigh established the first English colony in "Virginia"--on what is now
Roanoke island, North Carolina--two good reporters, one a writer, the other an illustrator,
were commissioned to describe what they saw. This was twenty-two years before Jamestown and
naturally all the material consisted of Indian life and customs. The apertures in entry and opening of the white resembled of character
the seen in these soft parts, or in the bones of these skull of always-velocity
injuries (understand caprifig.

    I took, comparatively, compact pure perforations of the shafts of the
    tibia, femur, bone, and complete bones. The hole were, i think, nevertheless
    the result in low degrees in speed, and they see the place in perforations
    transverse of the'cut'assortment. Common.-- although those were cancellous
    in simple white, they were low same of many rare axle.
    

    There are also trouts, porpoises, rays, oldwives, mullets, plaice,
    and very many other sorts of excellent good fish, which we have
    taken and eaten, whose names I know not but in the country language
    we have of twelve sorts more the pictures as they were drawn in the
    country with their names.

    The inhabitants use to take them two manner of ways, the one is by
    a kind of weir made of reeds which in that country are very strong.
    The other way which is more strange, is with poles made sharp at
    one end, by shooting them into the fish after the manner as
    Irishmen cast darts; either as they are rowing in their boats or
    else as they are wading in the shallows for the purpose.

    There are also in many places plenty of these kinds which follow:

    Sea crabs, such as we have in England.

    Also mussels, scallops, periwinkles and crevises.

    Seekanauk, a kind of crusty shellfish which is good meat about a
    foot in breadth, having a crusty tail, many legs like a crab, and
    her eyes in her back. They are found in shallows of salty waters;
    and sometimes on the shore.

    There are many tortoises both of land and sea kind, their backs and
    bellies are shelled very thick; their head, feet and tail, which
    are in appearance, seem ugly as though they were members of a
    serpent or venomous; but notwithstanding they are very good meat,
    as also their eggs. Some have been found of a yard in breadth and
    better.

In a charming drawing of a group of Indian maidens John White, the artist associate, commented:
"They delight ... in seeing fish taken in the rivers."

Over and over the first visitors to the Chesapeake bay painted rosy pictures of its marine
life, stressing the abundance, variety and tastiness of the fish and shellfish. Exploration
and communication were chiefly by water: it was natural that emphasis be laid on water resources.
Though it is proverbial that fish stories partake of fiction, in the case of John Smith and
his successors, it is doubtful whether they were greatly exaggerated. This was a world where
nature, especially in the waters, was immeasurably prolific.

