He broke off as the distant pealing of church bells came to his ears, carried faintly but clearly
by the light wind that whispered over the snowy stretches of rolling meadowlands. For a long
time Terry stood facing toward the invisible village, his face moody and inscrutable. As the
sound of the bells died away he shook off the spell with conscious, humorous effort and picking
up his rifle and the fox he went into the thicket to secure and adjust his snowshoes.

Ignoring paths and sleighroads he made his way toward the town. The crisp pine-laden air charged
his muscles with exuberant excess of the fine energy of youth and he made his way swiftly across
the sparkling snow that blanketed the gentle landscape, through the thickets of evergreens
and across the tiny, ice-edged creeks that flowed in swift escape from winter's frozen grip.

Keen-eyed, he stopped a moment in study of a group of pheasants that huddled in a clump of
underbrush. They played possum till he passed on. A rabbit, reared up in nervous-nosed inquiry,
watched him furtively as he approached the rock behind which it had vainly sought concealment.
Terry laughed at its ridiculous plight.

"You'd better improve your strategy, you young scamp, or you'll wind up in the pot of some
one who hunts rabbits!"

He watched its jumpy flight into a distant copse of young pines, then went on swiftly. In an
hour he paused at the top of a last steep grade. Lake Champlain stretched her flat-frozen bosom
to the north and south of him. The more level timbered areas of the opposite shore were broken
here and there by clearings in which white farm houses and red barns nestled like doll houses.

At the foot of the slope directly beneath him a village lay primly along the lake shore. It
was a square-built town, its limits almost rectangular, its breadth and width checkered into
exact squares by wide, straight streets. It was an old town: a score of its flat-roofed structures
had been built while the Mohawks still guarded the Western Gate of the Long House, and many
of the great, old-fashioned homes had stood when Ethan Allen strutted through its streets.

It was not a snug little town, there was no air of hospitality to encourage strangers to tarry
within its gates, but seemed to promise "value received" for any who came, paid their way and
attended strictly to their own affairs.

Thus Terry saw the town in which he had been born and had spent all of his twenty-six years
except the four at Princeton. He tarried, his eyes fixed upon the cemetery which limited the
eastern edge of the town, to which his father and mother had been carried when he was a boy
of eleven.

He faced about in lingering appreciation of the blue-vaulted expanse, then descended toward
the village. Whipping off his snowshoes at the border of the village he entered the main street,
which ran straight through town to the lake front. No one was in sight on the broad thoroughfare
and he found a measure of relief in its emptiness, for though he did not adhere to the rigid
New England doctrine that governed his neighbors, he found no pleasure in wanton violation
of their stiff code. Realizing that with snowshoes, gun and fox he jarred heavily upon the
atmosphere of the quiet Sunday morning, he hurried down the street.

He encountered no one, but as he passed by the ice-incrusted watering trough at the central
square and approached the block made up by Crampville's three churches, the big doors of his
own church were flung open and the congregation emerged. As the decorous crowd filed out Terry
hesitated a moment, then kept on his way.

The progress of the lone figure along the opposite side of the street was the topic of conversation
at nearly every dinner table in Crampville that Sunday. It became a sort of small-town epic,
so that they still tell how stern the elders looked, and how white Terry's face against the
background of black fur which he had thrown across his shoulder in order to free his right
hand that he might gravely raise his crimson hunting cap in respectful salutation of families
he had known from childhood. And they still tell, too, how Deane Hunter, flushed with mortification
at her father's frigid refusal to recognize Terry's greeting, checked the nudges and whisperings
by calling out a cheerful "Good Morning, Dick." Her courageous voice still rang in his ears
as he entered the iron-fenced yard that surrounded the home of his fathers.

Inside the great, high-ceilinged house Terry stood a while in somber reflection, then shrugged
his trim shoulders and passed through the shadowy rooms out into the barn. In five minutes
he had cleaned and oiled his rifle, but an hour passed while he carefully removed the pelt
and tacked it taut upon a stretching board.

He was in the library, reading, when his sister and brother-in-law came downstairs in response
to the dinner bell. Susan and her husband, Ellis Crofts, had lived in the old mansion since
their marriage two years previously, rather against Ellis' desires. He had wished to set up
an establishment of his own, but had yielded to Susan's pleadings and Terry's sincere letter
from college asking him not to be instrumental in closing up a house that had been lived in
continuously by the Terrys of four generations.

They had been among the last to emerge from church, but had come out in time to see Terry as
he opened the gate, and had heard enough of the murmured comment to understand its significance.
It had been difficult for them to control their emotions as they kept slow step with the throng
down the broad sidewalk. Susan, mortified but loyal to the core, had set her face in defiant
smile lest she burst into tears: Ellis, devoted to Terry but tickled by the situation, had
smothered his snickers in protracted fits of coughing.

Terry threw aside a handbook on the curing of pelts and rose at their entrance, smiling:

"Well, do you good folks think you are safe in sitting at the same table with an unrepentant
sinner?"

Susan had been crying. "Oh, Dick! Why did you do it? How do you do such things?"

He waved his hand in humorous deprecation. "Easy. It's the simplest thing I do. It isn't difficult
if you have a knack for it."

"But, Dick, it's no joke. I saw the three elders of our church--Ballard, Remington and Van
Slyke--talking about it, and they were very bitter. And you know they can expel any church member."

Terry made no answer save to put his arm around each and lead them into the dining room. But
Susan was not content.

"Dick, I wish you would explain it to Ballard or Van Slyke. They are influential men and both
are very religious."

Ellis took a hand: "Their religion is all right, so far as it goes--but they mix it up with
their dyspepsia too much to suit me!"

As his wife turned rebuking eyes upon him he pursued doggedly: "Not that their dyspepsia and
religion are always mixed; they have their dyspepsia seven days in the week!"

She joined in their laughter over Ellis' exaggerated defense, then turned again to her brother.

"What are you going to do with that nasty thing you shot, Dick?"

"Nasty?" broke in Ellis in quick alarm. "You didn't shoot a skunk, did you?"

She ignored her husband and persisted: "Tell me why you shot that fox, Dick. You have been
out hunting nearly every day for two weeks and have shot nothing else, so I know you have a
reason."

"I'm not going to help eat it!" Ellis broke in. "I've heard they are stringy--and a bit smelly."

"Ellis, will you stop being ridiculous? Dick, why have you hunted that fox so long?"

Ellis had seen that Terry was not to be pumped, that this was another of his queer quests.
He tried again to shunt Susan away.

"Maybe it was a personal matter between him and the fox, Sue."

She turned on him a look she endeavored to make disdainful, but only succeeded in raising another
laugh from both. But she was not to be deterred. Her eyes lit with sudden inspiration.

"I'll bet--I'll bet anything--" she began.

"Susan Terry Crofts! Even Dick would not bet on Sunday!"

"I will bet anything," she insisted, "that it is something for Deane--for Christmas!"

In the slight flush that rose in her brother's face Susan learned that she had hit the mark.
But she was instantly sorry that she had pressed the issue, as she had learned long before
to respect what was to her his queer reticence.

Ellis hurried into the breach: "Wonder what Bruce will give Deane this Christmas? He is about
due to present her with something really worth while--like a patent mop!"

Even Terry laughed. The struggle for Deane's favor between Bruce Ballard and Terry had been
in progress nearly ten years and had become one of the town's institutions. The first formal
offerings tendered by the two boys on the occasion of her graduation from high school typified
the contrasting characters of the rivals: Terry, idealistic, impressionable, reserved, had
sent her a beautiful copy of the "Love Letters of a Musician," while Bruce, sincere, obvious
and practical, had given her a hat-pin.

On her succeeding birthday Terry, after a six-hour climb, had won for her a box of trailing
arbutus from Mount Defiance's cool top; Bruce had sent her candy. From his medical college
at Baltimore Bruce had sent, as succeeding Christmas gifts, an ivory toilet set, a thermos
bottle, a reading lamp and a chafing dish.

Terry's offerings on those occasions had been a Japanese kimono embroidered with her favorite
flower--a wondrous thing secured by correspondence with the American consul at Kobe: a pair
of Siamese kittens which he named Cat-Nip and Cat-Nap: a sandal-wood fan out of India; and
a little, triple-chinned, ebony god of Mirth, its impish eyes rolled back in merriment, mouth
wrinkled with utter joy of the world.

The rivalry had divided the town into two camps. The pro-Bruce faction, composed largely of
men folk, claimed for their protégé a splendid common sense in selection of his gifts: but
the women and girls, who made up the other group, envied Deane not only the gifts Terry gave
her, but also--and more so--the rarefied romantic spirit of the youth who conceived and offered
them.

Deane realized that both Bruce and Terry stayed on in the dull old town principally to be near
her. This was true of Bruce particularly, as he was a young surgeon of such promise that he
had twice been invited into junior association with Albany's greatest specialist. She had strongly
urged him to embrace the increased opportunity for service and profit which the city afforded.

But Terry was only six months out of college, a six months spent in futile effort to adjust
himself to the theme of the village, to find appropriate outlet for that urgent desire to be
of use in the world which dominated his character. As the Terrys were of those families termed
"comfortable" in Crampville, he felt no need of devoting himself to adding to an already ample
estate. At his sister's request, he had undertaken to manage a shoe store that represented
one of their holdings but at the end of a couple of months had given it up--also in accord
with her wishes. Higgins, their old clerk, had come to her with tearful warnings that Terry's
unwillingness to refuse credit to any one who came in with a tale of hard-luck was ruining
the business: and Terry had lost the custom of several good families by declining to humor
their crotchety unreasonableness.

But Higgins did not know how they came to lose the trade of the Hunter family. At the end of
a trying day of insistent demand for smaller shoes than feminine feet could accommodate, of
viewing bunions and flat arches and wry-jointed toes, he had written Deane:

     DEANE DEAR:--

     I used to think that the true glory of Trilby rested in the
     wondrous mesmeric voice--but after a month in the shoe
     business I know better. Between perfect vocal cords and
     perfect feet, give me the feet.

     The word "shoe" used to bring to my mind thoughts of
     calfskin, kid, patent leather. But no more! Now I think
     of--well, many things.

     I am glad that your family is not among those who favor this
     establishment with its patronage. I am very happy in this,
     as it is good to think that your dear shoes are but a part
     of you, are incidental to your being, and not a consequence
     of drear barter and "fitting."

     I will not be over to-night. But I will be thinking of you.

                                                  DICK.

A bit puzzled, she had shown the note to her father. Irate, he had issued a mandate that produced
the effect Terry had asked. Mr. Hunter was acutely sensitive about twin corns which had been
a part of his toes so long that he honestly thought them congenital.

After quitting the store Terry had turned his attention to their farm properties but, as a
careful investigation covering three months had demonstrated them to be in capable hands, he
had returned them to the full management of the old tenants at the end of the harvest. He had
then studied the possibilities of enlarging their only other business, a small pulp plant,
but after satisfying himself that the meager water power was being fully utilized and that
the location of the mill at Crampville precluded competition with those more favorably located
that were operated with steam power, he had abandoned the project. For a month he had been
seeking outlet for his restless energy.

Deane, anxiously watching his endeavor to fit himself into one of Crampville's narrow grooves
and vaguely understanding his unvoiced craving for wider horizons, dreaded the break she knew
would take him away. Susan, studying him with the uneasy solicitude of an older sister, saw
in Deane an anchor which would hold him to the town. Ellis had been less concerned, as he had
recognized that Terry's intolerance of the village was but the outcropping of a sane young
spirit that gauged the peaks and sought real service. He had been trying lately to prepare
his wife for Terry's departure to other fields, as he thought it inevitable. It was a word
to this effect that had precipitated the tears with which she had greeted her brother before
dinner.

Ellis plagued Susan throughout the leisurely meal, Terry adding an occasional word whenever
the flow of affectionate badgering lagged. Fanny, who had served them since they were children,
bustled in and out, redfaced, wholesome, fruitlessly trying to press upon Terry an excess of
the over-ample dinner. It was a sort of unwritten law in Crampville that the Sunday dinner
should be sufficiently heavy to drive the menfolk to a long digestive nap.

Ellis lingered at the table after Terry had excused himself and gone out into the barn again.
Susan helped Fanny clear the old mahogany table, then sank into a chair beside her abstracted
husband.

"Sue," he said finally, "Dick hasn't said anything lately about accepting that position in
the Philippines, has he?"

A worried look crept into her smooth face: "No. I supposed he had decided against it."

He patted her hand consolingly: "Don't be too confident about his staying home, Sue. He wants
to see things--do things! There isn't much in this town to hold one of his nature."

"There's--Deane," she said, hopefully.

"Sue, don't be so sure of that, either. You know that you and I hold different theories about
that. Don't bank too heavily on yours." He drummed the polished table a moment before continuing:
"He received another telegram from Washington yesterday--I thought he might have mentioned
it to you."

"No," she quavered.

"Nor to me. Guess he doesn't want to worry you."

She was close to tears again: "I wish he had never met that young Bronner in college--he gave
Dick all these crazy ideas about going to those horrid islands where his brother is!"

"Well, Sue, he made me feel the same way--and I'm a fat married man! I enjoyed his stories
of his brother's experiences with the wild people over there. It must be an interesting life."

"You don't talk like that to Dick, do you?" she implored.

"Of course not. But I think you've been too sure that he would stay on here indefinitely--I
think it will take very little to tip the scales the other way."

He yawned prodigiously, rousing Susan to an ire that stemmed the flow of tears which had threatened
to overflow her blue eyes. Then, content with his tactics, he went upstairs for his traditional
nap.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later, Terry came into the big living room and stood in front of the fireplace a long time,
his lean face grave and thoughtful. Decision made, he wrote a note of sincere apology to Doctor
Mather, his pastor. He also wrote Deane that he would not be over in the evening but would
see her during the week, and made the delivery of the notes an excuse to get the faithful Fanny
out into the crisp December afternoon.

The light in the Terry library burned long after Crampville's other lights had winked out.
He had been picked up by Stevenson and carried by that pathetic master into the far places
of the earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning he was in the barn, his gay mood revealed by the running talk addressed to
the pelt on which he worked.

"Well, old boy, only four days to get you into shape for your dedication, but the book says
it can be done. So you might as well soften up now--"he vigorously rubbed the dried bare side
with some oily preparation--"as later."

"What a destiny, old chap! Surely no other fox ever born to lady-fox can be as happy as you're
going to be!" He rubbed industriously. "You're not for me, you know. No, sir! I wouldn't bring
you out of the hills into this burg--where they kill ambition by preaching content with your
lot, where the hoarders of pennies are venerated and the pluggers canonized--I wouldn't bring
you here just for me. For I'm not worthy of you. No, sir-ree! Don't you know I'm no good--didn't
you see that yesterday? Why, Old Samuel Terwilliger said I'm an atheist because I quoted Ingersoll's
graveside oration--said no Christian would repeat anything that man ever said, even if his
watch is a bargain at a dollar!... Samuel likes bargains."

Working rapidly, with no lost motions, he rambled on, congratulatory, reproachful, whimsical.
Having carried the curing to a point where a twenty-four-hour time process was the next essential
factor, he carefully pegged the skin to the barn door.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening Susan came running home excitedly, having learned that one of the elders had asked
that a meeting be called to consider Dick's case, and that the young pastor had very promptly
and very emphatically vetoed the proceeding. It seemed that Bruce had heard of the move and
persuaded his father not to support it, after a stormy scene in which he had threatened to
resign his own membership if they moved against Terry.

Ellis looked long at Terry: "Nothing small about Bruce, Dick. Some fellows, under the circumstances--all
the circumstances--might have let you have it to the hilt."

Terry smiled gravely. "Good old Bruce," he said.

