Hitherto invariable success had attended the arms of the Emperor and the League, and Christian
IV., defeated in Germany, had sought refuge in his own islands; but the Baltic checked the
further progress of the conquerors.  The want of ships not only stopped the pursuit of the
king, but endangered their previous acquisitions.  The union of the two northern monarchs was
most to be dreaded, because, so long as it lasted, it effectually prevented the Emperor and
his general from acquiring a footing on the Baltic, or effecting a landing in Sweden.  But
if they could succeed in dissolving this union, and especially securing the friendship of the
Danish king, they might hope to overpower the insulated force of Sweden.  The dread of the
interference of foreign powers, the insubordination of the Protestants in his own states, and
still more the storm which was gradually darkening along the whole of Protestant Germany, inclined
the Emperor to peace, which his general, from opposite motives, was equally desirous to effect.
Far from wishing for a state of things which would reduce him from the meridian of greatness
and glory to the obscurity of private life, he only wished to change the theatre of war, and
by a partial peace to prolong the general confusion.  The friendship of Denmark, whose neighbour
he had become as Duke of Mecklenburgh, was most important for the success of his ambitious
views; and he resolved, even at the sacrifice of his sovereign's interests, to secure its alliance.

By the treaty of Copenhagen, Christian IV.  had expressly engaged not to conclude a separate
peace with the Emperor, without the consent of Sweden.  Notwithstanding, Wallenstein's proposition
was readily received by him.  In a conference at Lubeck in 1629, from which Wallenstein, with
studied contempt, excluded the Swedish ambassadors who came to intercede for Mecklenburgh,
all the conquests taken by the imperialists were restored to the Danes.  The conditions imposed
upon the king were, that he should interfere no farther with the affairs of Germany than was
called for by his character of Duke of Holstein; that he should on no pretext harass the Chapters
of Lower Germany, and should leave the Dukes of Mecklenburgh to their fate.  By Christian himself
had these princes been involved in the war with the Emperor; he now sacrificed them, to gain
the favour of the usurper of their territories.  Among the motives which had engaged him in
a war with the Emperor, not the least was the restoration of his relation, the Elector Palatine--yet
the name of that unfortunate prince was not even mentioned in the treaty; while in one of its
articles the legitimacy of the Bavarian election was expressly recognised.  Thus meanly and
ingloriously did Christian IV.  retire from the field.

Ferdinand had it now in his power, for the second time, to secure the tranquillity of Germany;
and it depended solely on his will whether the treaty with Denmark should or should not be
the basis of a general peace.  From every quarter arose the cry of the unfortunate, petitioning
for an end of their sufferings; the cruelties of his soldiers, and the rapacity of his generals,
had exceeded all bounds.  Germany, laid waste by the desolating bands of Mansfeld and the Duke
of Brunswick, and by the still more terrible hordes of Tilly and Wallenstein, lay exhausted,
bleeding, wasted, and sighing for repose.  An anxious desire for peace was felt by all conditions,
and by the Emperor himself; involved as he was in a war with France in Upper Italy, exhausted
by his past warfare in Germany, and apprehensive of the day of reckoning which was approaching.
But, unfortunately, the conditions on which alone the two religious parties were willing respectively
to sheath the sword, were irreconcileable.  The Roman Catholics wished to terminate the war
to their own advantage; the Protestants advanced equal pretensions.  The Emperor, instead of
uniting both parties by a prudent moderation, sided with one; and thus Germany was again plunged
in the horrors of a bloody war.

From the very close of the Bohemian troubles, Ferdinand had carried on a counter reformation
in his hereditary dominions, in which, however, from regard to some of the Protestant Estates,
he proceeded, at first, with moderation.  But the victories of his generals in Lower Germany
encouraged him to throw off all reserve.  Accordingly he had it intimated to all the Protestants
in these dominions, that they must either abandon their religion, or their native country,--a
bitter and dreadful alternative, which excited the most violent commotions among his Austrian
subjects.  In the Palatinate, immediately after the expulsion of Frederick, the Protestant
religion had been suppressed, and its professors expelled from the University of Heidelberg.

All this was but the prelude to greater changes.  In the Electoral Congress held at Muehlhausen,
the Roman Catholics had demanded of the Emperor that all the archbishoprics, bishoprics, mediate
and immediate, abbacies and monasteries, which, since the Diet of Augsburg, had been secularized
by the Protestants, should be restored to the church, in order to indemnify them for the losses
and sufferings in the war.  To a Roman Catholic prince so zealous as Ferdinand was, such a
hint was not likely to be neglected; but he still thought it would be premature to arouse the
whole Protestants of Germany by so decisive a step.  Not a single Protestant prince but would
be deprived, by this revocation of the religious foundations, of a part of his lands; for where
these revenues had not actually been diverted to secular purposes they had been made over to
the Protestant church.  To this source, many princes owed the chief part of their revenues
and importance.  All, without exception, would be irritated by this demand for restoration.
The religious treaty did not expressly deny their right to these chapters, although it did
not allow it.  But a possession which had now been held for nearly a century, the silence of
four preceding emperors, and the law of equity, which gave them an equal right with the Roman
Catholics to the foundations of their common ancestors, might be strongly pleaded by them as
a valid title.  Besides the actual loss of power and authority, which the surrender of these
foundations would occasion, besides the inevitable confusion which would necessarily attend
it, one important disadvantage to which it would lead, was, that the restoration of the Roman
Catholic bishops would increase the strength of that party in the Diet by so many additional
votes.  Such grievous sacrifices likely to fall on the Protestants, made the Emperor apprehensive
of a formidable opposition; and until the military ardour should have cooled in Germany, he
had no wish to provoke a party formidable by its union, and which in the Elector of Saxony
had a powerful leader.  He resolved, therefore, to try the experiment at first on a small scale,
in order to ascertain how it was likely to succeed on a larger one.  Accordingly, some of the
free cities in Upper Germany, and the Duke of Wirtemberg, received orders to surrender to the
Roman Catholics several of the confiscated chapters.

The state of affairs in Saxony enabled the Emperor to make some bolder experiments in that
quarter.  In the bishoprics of Magdeburg and Halberstadt, the Protestant canons had not hesitated
to elect bishops of their own religion.  Both bishoprics, with the exception of the town of
Magdeburg itself, were overrun by the troops of Wallenstein.  It happened, moreover, that by
the death of the Administrator Duke Christian of Brunswick, Halberstadt was vacant, as was
also the Archbishopric of Magdeburg by the deposition of Christian William, a prince of the
House of Brandenburgh.  Ferdinand took advantage of the circumstance to restore the see of
Halberstadt to a Roman Catholic bishop, and a prince of his own house.  To avoid a similar
coercion, the Chapter of Magdeburg hastened to elect a son of the Elector of Saxony as archbishop.
But the pope, who with his arrogated authority interfered in this matter, conferred the Archbishopric
of Magdeburg also on the Austrian prince.  Thus, with all his pious zeal for religion, Ferdinand
never lost sight of the interests of his family.

At length, when the peace of Lubeck had delivered the Emperor from all apprehensions on the
side of Denmark, and the German Protestants seemed entirely powerless, the League becoming
louder and more urgent in its demands, Ferdinand, in 1629, signed the Edict of Restitution,
(so famous by its disastrous consequences,) which he had previously laid before the four Roman
Catholic electors for their approbation.  In the preamble, he claimed the prerogative, in right
of his imperial authority, to interpret the meaning of the religious treaty, the ambiguities
of which had already caused so many disputes, and to decide as supreme arbiter and judge between
the contending parties.  This prerogative he founded upon the practice of his ancestors, and
its previous recognition even by Protestant states.  Saxony had actually acknowledged this
right of the Emperor; and it now became evident how deeply this court had injured the Protestant
cause by its dependence on the House of Austria.  But though the meaning of the religious treaty
was really ambiguous, as a century of religious disputes sufficiently proved, yet for the Emperor,
who must be either a Protestant or a Roman Catholic, and therefore an interested party, to
assume the right of deciding between the disputants, was clearly a violation of an essential
article of the pacification.  He could not be judge in his own cause, without reducing the
liberties of the empire to an empty sound.

And now, in virtue of this usurpation, Ferdinand decided, "That every secularization of a religious
foundation, mediate or immediate, by the Protestants, subsequent to the date of the treaty,
was contrary to its spirit, and must be revoked as a breach of it." He further decided, "That,
by the religious peace, Catholic proprietors of estates were no further bound to their Protestant
subjects than to allow them full liberty to quit their territories." In obedience to this decision,
all unlawful possessors of benefices--the Protestant states in short without exception--were
ordered, under pain of the ban of the empire, immediately to surrender their usurped possessions
to the imperial commissioners.

