Rachel laughed. "Well, I've got three fields still to get in," she said. "And they're the best.
Goodnight."

She gave him her hand, standing transfigured in the light, the wind blowing her beautiful hair
about her.

"May I come and see you?" he asked, rather formally.

She smiled assent.

"Next week everything will be in, and some of it threshed. I shall be freer then. You'll like
our place."

He pressed her hand, and she was off, running like a fawn after the retreating pony carriage.

He turned away, a little dazzled and shaken. The image of her on the ridge remained; but what
perhaps had struck deepest had been the sweetness of her as she hung above the injured boy.
He went slowly towards the camp, conscious that the day now departing had opened a new door
in the House of Life.

IV

Ellesborough allowed a week to pass before making the call at Great End he had arranged with
Rachel. But at last, when he thought that her harvesting would be really over, he set out on
his motor bicycle, one fine evening, as soon as work at the camp was over. According to summer
time it was about seven o'clock, and the sun was still sailing clear above the western woods.

Part of his way lay over a broad common chequered with fine trees and groups of trees, some
of them of great age; for the rest he ran through a world where harvest in its latest stages
was still the governing fact. In some fields the corn was being threshed on the spot, without
waiting for the stacks; in others, the last loads were being led; and everywhere in the cleared
fields there were scattered figures of gleaners, casting long shadows on the gold and purple
carpet of the stubble. For Ellesborough the novelty of this garden England, so elaborately
combed and finished in comparison with his own country, was by no means exhausted. There were
times when the cottage gardens, the endless hedge-rows, and miniature plantations pleased him
like the detail in those early Florentine pictures in the Metropolitan Museum, for which, business
man as he was, and accustomed to the wilds, he had once or twice, on visits to New York, discovered
in himself a considerable taste. He was a man, indeed, of many aptitudes, and of a loyal and
affectionate temper. His father, a country doctor, now growing old, his mother, still pretty
at sixty, and his two unmarried sisters were all very dear to him. He wrote to them constantly,
and received many letters from them. They belonged to one of the old Unitarian stocks still
common in New England; and such stocks are generally conspicuous for high standards and clean
living. "Discipline" was among the chief marks of the older generation. A father or mother
dreaded an "undisciplined" child, and the word was often on their lips, though in no Pharisaical
way; while the fact was evident in their lives, and in those private diaries which they were
apt to keep, wherein, up to old age, they jealously watched their own daily thoughts and actions
from the same point of view.

And though the younger generation, like the younger generation of Quakers, shows change and
some disintegration, the old Puritan traditions and standards are still, as we all know, of
great effect among them. Especially with regard to women, and all that concerns them. Among
the Ellesborough clan, which was a large one, there prevailed, along with the traditional American
consideration for women, and especially among the women of the family themselves--a strict
and even severe standard of sexual morals. There was no hypocrisy in it; they talked of it
but little, but they lived by it; and their men were brought up in the atmosphere created by
it. And as affection and tenderness and self-sacrifice were freely mixed with the asceticism,
there was no rebellion--at any rate no open rebellion--among their men folk. The atmosphere
created led, no doubt, to certain evasions of the hard problems of life; and to some quiet
revaluations of things and persons when the sons of the family came to men's estate. But in
general the "ape and tiger," still surviving in the normal human being, had been really and
effectively tamed in the Ellesborough race. There was also a sensitive delicacy both of thought
and speech among them; answering to more important and tested realities. Their marriages were
a success; their children were well brought up, under light but effective control; and, if
it be true, as Americans are ready to say, that the old conception of marriage is being slowly
but profoundly modified over large sections of their great Commonwealth, towards a laxity undreamt
of half a century ago, the Ellesboroughs could neither be taxed nor applauded in the matter.
They stood by the old ways, and they stood by them whole-heartedly.

Ellesborough himself, no doubt, had knocked about the world more than most of his kindred,
and had learnt to look at many things differently. But essentially, he was the son of his race.
His attitude towards women was at once reverential and protective. He believed women were better
than men, because practically he had found it so in his own circle; but he held also very strong
beliefs, seldom expressed, as to their social disadvantages and their physical weakness. The
record of the Germans towards women in France and Flanders, a record he had verified for himself,
had perhaps done more than anything else to feed the stern flame of war in his own soul. At
thirty-two, he would probably have already been a married man, but for the war. He rather fiercely
held that it was a man's duty to marry and have children. But beyond a few passing fancies
he had never been in love; and since the American declaration of war, he had been, like his
President, out to "make the world safe for democracy"; and the ardour of the struggle had swept
his private interests out of sight.

All the same here he was, walking his motor cycle up the field road leading to Great End Farm,
and looking eagerly about him. A lonely position, but beautiful! On the woods behind the house
he turned a professional eye. Fine timber! The man who was to succeed him at Ralstone would
no doubt have the cutting of it. The farm quadrangle, with its sixteenth century barn, out
of which the corn seemed to be actually bursting from various open doors and windows, appeared
to him through that glamour which, for the intelligent American, belongs to everything that
medieval and Elizabethan England has bequeathed to the England of the present. He will back
himself, he thinks, to plan and build a modern town better than the Britisher--in any case
quicker. But the mosses and tiles of an old Brookshire barn beat him.

Ellesborough paused at the gate to watch two land lassies carrying pails of milk across the
yard towards a prolongation of the farm-house, which he supposed was the dairy. Just beyond
the farm-yard, two great wheat-stacks were visible; while in the hayfields running up to the
woods, large hay-stacks, already nearly thatched, showed dimly in the evening light. And all
this was run by women, worked by Women! Well, American women, so he heard from home, were doing
the same in the fields and farms of the States. It was all part, he supposed, of a world movement,
by which, no less than by the war itself, these great years would be for ever remembered.

The farm-house itself, however, seemed to him from the outside a poor, flimsy thing, unworthy
of the old farm buildings. He could see that the walls of it were only a brick thick, and in
spite of the pretty curtains, he was struck by the odd feature of the two large windows exactly
opposite each other, so that a spectator on either side of the house might look right through it.

"Seems like being in the street. However, if there's nobody to look at you, I suppose it don't
matter."

Then he laughed, for just as he led his motor cycle into the yard, and passed the sitting-room
window, he was struck by the appearance of two large sheep, who seemed to be actually in the
sitting-room, at its farther end. They were standing, he presently perceived, upon the steep
down beyond the house, on the slope of which the farm was built; which on the southern side
of the farm quadrangle came right up to the house wall. At the same moment he saw a woman inside
get up and shoo them from the open window, so that they ran away.

But when Jenny Harberton had admitted him, and he was waiting in the sitting-room, from which
the woman he had seen had disappeared, he was in the mood to admire everything. How nice the
two women had made it! His own rough life, both before and since the war, had only increased
a natural instinct for order and seemliness. The pretty blue paper, the fresh drugget, the
photographs on the wall, the flowers, and the delicate neatness of everything delighted him.
He went round looking at the pictures and the few books, perfectly conscious that everything
which he saw had a more than common interest for him. The room seemed to be telling a story--opening
points of view.

"Ah!"

He paused, a broad smile overspreading his bronzed face.

For he had perceived a popular History of the War lying open and face downwards on the table,
one that he had recommended to the mistress of the farm. So she had followed his advice. It
pleased him particularly! He had gathered that she was never a great reader; still, she was
an educated woman, she ought to know something of what her country had done.

And there was actually a piano! He wondered whether she played, or her friend.

Meanwhile Rachel was changing her dress upstairs--rather deliberately. She did not want to
look too glad to see her visitor, to flatter him by too much hurry. When he arrived she had
just come in from the fields where she had been at the threshing machine all day. It had covered
her with dirt and chaff; and the process of changing was only half through when she heard the
rattle of Ellesborough's cycle outside. She stood now before the glass, a radiant daughter
of air and earth; her veins, as it were, still full of the sheer pleasure of her long day among
the stubbles and the young stock. She was tired, of course; and she knew very well that the
winter, when it came, would make a great difference, and that much of the work before her would
be hard and disagreeable. But for the moment, her deep satisfaction with the life she had chosen,
the congruity between it and her, gave her a peculiar charm. She breathed content, and there
is no more beautifying thing.

She had thought a good deal about Ellesborough since their meeting; yet not absorbingly, for
she had her work to do. She was rather inclined to quarrel with him for having been so long
in making his call; and this feeling, perhaps, induced her to dawdle a little over the last
touches of her toilet. She had put on a thin, black dress, which tamed the exuberance of her
face and hair, and set off the brilliance and fineness of her skin where the open blouse displayed
it. The beautiful throat was sunburnt, indeed, but not unbecomingly so; and she was about to
fasten round it a slender gold chain, when she suddenly dropped the chain. Some association
had passed through her mind which made her shrink from it.

She chose instead a necklace of bluish-green beads, long, and curiously interwoven, which gave
a touch of dignity to the plain dress. Then she paused to consider the whole effect, in a spirit
of meditation rather than mere vanity. "I wish he knew!" she thought, and the glass reflected
a frown of perplexity. Had she been wise, after all, to make such a complete mystery of the
past? People in and about Ipscombe would probably know some time--what all her Canadian friends
knew. And then, the thought of the endless explanations and gossip, of the horrid humiliation
involved in any renewed contact whatever with the ugly things she had put behind her, roused
a sudden, surging disgust.

"Yes, I was quite right," she thought vehemently. "I was quite right!"

Voices in the room downstairs! That meant that Janet had gone in to greet the visitor. Should
they ask him to stay for supper? The vicar was coming, and his pious little sister. There would
be quite enough to eat. Cold ham, potatoes and salad, with their own butter and bread--Janet
made beautiful bread--was enough for anybody in war time. Rachel was in the mood to feel a
certain childish exultation in the plenty of the farm, amid the general rationing. The possession
of her seven milch cows, the daily pleasure of the milk, morning and evening, the sight of
the rich separated cream, and of the butter as it came fresh from the churn, the growing weight
and sleekness of the calves; all these things gave her a warm sense of protection against the
difficulties and restrictions of the war. She and Janet were "self-suppliers." No need to bother
about ounces of butter, or spoonfuls of cream. Of course they sold all they could, but they
could still feed their few guests well--better, perhaps, than any of the folk in the villa
houses round Millsborough.

"Yes! and no one's leave to ask!"

She threw out her arms in a vehement gesture as she turned away from the glass. It was the
gesture of a wild bird taking flight.

By which, however, she was not hurling defiance at the gentle but most efficient little lady
who represented the Food Control of the neighbourhood, and the mere sight of whom was enough
to jog uneasy consciences in the matter of rations. Rachel was long since on the best of terms
with her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Ellesborough was asked to stay to supper, and gladly accepted. The vicar and his young
sister arrived and were introduced to the American. Betty and Jenny, alarmed at so much company
and the quality of it, hurriedly asked to be allowed to take their meal in the tiny scullery
behind the living room. But the democratic and dissenting Janet would not hear of it. There
was room for everybody, she said, and while she lived in it there should only be one table
for all who worked on the farm. If the vicar and Miss Shenstone objected, she was sorry for
them. But they wouldn't object.

So the small living room of the farm was soon full of a merry company: the two mistresses,
in their Sunday frocks, the land girls in their uniforms, the young vicar in a short coat and
round collar, his little sister of nineteen, who was training to be a missionary, and carried
about with her already the sweet and dedicated look of her calling; and Ellesborough, a striking
and manly figure in full khaki. Ellesborough was on Rachel's right, the vicar on Janet's; Miss
Shenstone sat between the two girls, and was so far from objecting to their company that she
no sooner found she was to sit next the daughter of her brother's handy-man than her childish
face flushed with pleasure. She had seen Jenny already at her brother's Bible-class, and she
had been drawn to her. Something in the character of the labourer's daughter seemed to make
a special appeal to the delicate and mystical temper of the vicar's sister, in whom the ardour
of the "watcher for souls" was a natural gift. Jenny seemed to be aware of it. She was flushed
and a little excited, alternately shy and communicative--like the bird under fascination, already
alive to the signal of its captor. At any rate, Margaret Shenstone kept both her companions
happy through the meal.

The vicar employed himself in vigorously making friends with Janet Leighton, keenly alive all
the time to that vivid and flower-like vision of Miss Henderson at the farther end of the table.
But some instinct warned him that beside the splendid fellow in khaki his own claim on her
could be but a modest one. He must watch his opportunity. It was natural that certain misgivings
had already begun to rise in the mind of his elder sister, Eleanor, who was his permanent companion
and housekeeper at the vicarage. For why should her brother be so specially assiduous in the
harvest operations at Great End? She was well aware that it was the right and popular thing
for the young clergy who were refused service at the front to be seen in their shirt sleeves
as agricultural volunteers, or in some form of war work. A neighbouring curate in whom she
was greatly interested spent the greater part of his week, for instance, on munition work at
a national factory. She thought him a hero. But if it was to be harvesting, then it seemed
to her that her brother should have divided his help more evenly among the farms of the village.
She was afraid of "talk." And it troubled her greatly that neither Miss Henderson nor Miss
Leighton came to church.

Meanwhile, the vicar, like a wise man, was securing the position with Janet. What he wished,
what he was really driving at, he would not let himself inquire. What he knew was that no woman
had ever fluttered his quiet mind as Miss Henderson had fluttered it during these summer weeks.
To watch her, erect and graceful, "pitching" the sheaves on to the harvest cart, where he and
a labourer received and packed them; to be privileged to lead the full cart home, with her
smile and thanks at the barn door for reward, or to stand with her while she proudly watched
her new reaping machine, with the three fine horses abreast, sweeping round her biggest field,
while the ripe sheaves fell beside it, as of old they fell beside the reapers that Hoephoestus
wrought in gleaming gold on the shield of Achilles; and then perhaps to pay a last visit with
her to the farm buildings in the warm dusk and watch the cattle coming in from the fields and
the evening feed, and all the shutting up for the night after the long, hot, busy day: these
things had lately made a veritable idyll of the vicar's life. He felt as though a hundred primitive
sensations and emotions, that he had only talked of or read about before, had at last become
real to him. Oxford memories revived. He actually felt a wish to look at his Virgil or Theocritus
again, such as had never stirred in him since he had packed his Oxford books to send home,
after the sobering announcement of his third class. After all, it seemed these old fellows
knew something about the earth and its joys!

So that a golden light lay over these past weeks. And in the midst of it stood the figure of
a silent and--as far as he was concerned--rather difficult woman, without which there would
have been no transfiguring light at all. He confessed to himself that she had never had much
to say to him. But wherever she was she drew the male creature after her. There was no doubt
as to that. She was a good employer--fair, considerate, intelligent; but it was the woman--so
the vicar believed--who got her way.

From which it will be seen that Miss Eleanor Shenstone had some reason for misgiving, and that
the vicar's own peace of mind was in danger. His standards also were no longer what they were.
He had really ceased to care that Miss Leighton was a Unitarian!

"I suppose you have been horribly busy?" said Rachel to Ellesborough, when, thanks to the exertions
of Janet and the two girls, everybody had been provided with a first course.

"Not more than usual. Do you mean--" He looked at her, smiling, and Rachel's eyebrows went
up slightly. "Ah, I see--you thought I had forgotten?"

"Oh, no," she said indifferently. "It is a long way to come."

He flushed a little.

"That never occurred to me for a moment!" he said with emphasis. "But you said you would have
finished with the harvest in a week. So I waited. I didn't want to be a nuisance."

At which she smiled, a smile that overflowed eyes and lips, and stirred the senses of the man
beside her.

"How is the prisoner?"

"Poor boy! He died the day before yesterday. We did everything we could, but he had no chance
from the first. Hard lines!"

"Why, he might have been home next year!"

"He might, indeed. Yes, Miss Henderson, it'll be peace next year--perhaps this year! Who knows!
But I hope I'll have a look in first. I've got my orders. As soon as they've appointed my successor
here, I'm off. About a month, I suppose. They've accepted me for the Air Force."

His eyes glowed. Rachel said nothing. She felt hurt that he expressed no regret at going. Then
the vicar struck into the conversation with some enthusiastic remarks about the steady flowing
in of the American army. That, indeed, was the great, the overpowering fact of these August
days. Ellesborough responded eagerly, describing the huge convoy with which he himself had
come over; and that amazing, that incredible march across three thousand miles of sea and land,
which every day was pouring into the British Isles, and so into France, some 15,000 men--the
flower of American manhood, come to the rescue of the world. He told the great story well,
with the graphic phrases of a quick mind, well fed on facts, yet not choked by them. The table
hung on him. Even little Jenny, with parted lips, would not have missed a word.

He meanwhile was led on--for he was not a man of facile or boastful speech--by the eyes of
Rachel Henderson, and those slight gestures or movements by which from time to time when the
talk flagged she would set it going again.

Margaret Shenstone was particularly stirred.

"What friends we shall be!" she said presently, with a long, quivering breath--"I mean America
and England. Friends for ever! And we quarrelled once. That's so wonderful. That shows good
does come out of evil!"

"I should jolly well think so," said Ellesborough, looking kindly at the young girl. "Why,
if it hadn't been for this war, millions of these boys who are coming over now would never
have seen England or Europe at all. It'll change the face of everything!"

"Only we must play up," said the vicar anxiously. "We must get rid of our abominable shyness,
and let your people really see how we really welcome them."

Rachel gave a little defiant shake of the head.

"America's got to thank us, too!" she said, with a challenging look at Ellesborough. "We've
borne it for four years. Now it's your turn!"

"Well, here we are," said Ellesborough quietly, "up to the neck. But--of course--don't thank
us. It's our business just as much as yours."

The talk dropped a moment, and Janet took advantage of it to bring in coffee as a finish to
the meal. Under cover of the slight bustle, Ellesborough said to Rachel, in a voice no longer
meant for the table,--

"Could you spare me a letter sometimes, Miss Henderson--at the front?"

He had both elbows on the table, and was playing with a cigarette. There was nothing the least
patronizing or arrogant in his manner. But there was a male note in it--perhaps a touch of
self-confidence--which ruffled her.

"Oh, I am a bad letter-writer," she said, as she got up from the table. "Shall we go and look
at the cows?"

They all went out into the warm September night. Ellesborough followed Rachel, cigarette in
hand, his strong mouth twisting a little. The night was almost cloudless. The pale encircling
down, patched at intervals with dark hanging woods, lay quiet under a sky full of faint stars.
The scent of the stubblefields, of the great corn-stack just beyond the farmyard, of the big
barn so full that the wide wooden doors could not be closed, was mingled with the strong ammonia
smells of the farm-yard, and here and there with the sweetness left in the evening air by the
chewing cows on their passage to the cow-house on the farther side of the yard.

Rachel led the way to the cow-house--a vast fifteenth-century barn, with an interlacing forest
of timber in its roof, where the six cows stood ranged, while Janet and the two land lassies,
with Hastings the bailiff to help them, were changing the litter and filling up the racks with
hay. Rachel went along the line pointing out the beauties of each separate beast to Ellesborough,
and caressing two little calves whom Jenny was feeding by hand. Ellesborough was amused by
her technical talk and her proprietor's airs. It seemed to him a kind of play-acting, but it
fascinated him. Janet had brought in a lantern, and the light and shade of it seemed to have
been specially devised to bring into relief Rachel's round and tempting beauty, the bright
brown of her hair where it curled on the temples, and the lovely oval of the cheeks. Ellesborough
watched her, now passing into deep shadow, and now brilliantly lit up, as the light of the
lantern caught her; overhead, the criss-cross of the arching beams as of some primitive cathedral,
centuries old; and on either side the dim forms of the munching cattle, and the pretty movements
of the girls busy with their work.

"Take care," laughed Rachel as she passed him. "There are horrid holes in this floor. I haven't
had time to mend them."

As she spoke, she slipped and almost fell. Ellesborough threw out a quick hand and caught her
by the arm. She smiled into his face.

"Neatly done!" she said composedly, submitting to be led by him over a very broken bit of pavement
near the door. His hand held her firmly. Nor did she make any effort to release herself till
they were outside. Here were the vicar and his sister waiting to say good-night--the vicar
much chagrined that he had seen so little of his chief hostess, and inclined to feel that his
self-sacrificing attention to Miss Leighton at supper had been but poorly rewarded. Rachel,
however, saw that he was out of humour, and at once set herself to appease him. And in the
few minutes which elapsed before she parted with him at the gate she had quite succeeded.

Then she turned to Ellesborough.

"Shall we go up the hill a little?"

They slipped through a side gate of the farmyard, crossed a field, and found themselves on
an old grass road leading gently upward along the side of the down into the shadow of the woods.
The still, warm night held them enwrapped. Rachel had thrown a white scarf over her head and
throat, which gave a mysterious charm to the face within it. As she strolled beside her hew
friend she played him with all the arts of a woman resolved to please. And he allowed himself
to be handled at her will. He told her about his people, and his friends, about the ideas and
ambitions, also, with which he had come to Europe, which were now in abeyance, but were to
spring to active life after the war. Forestry on a great scale; a part to be played in the
preservation and development of the vast forest areas of America which had been so wilfully
wasted; business and patriotism combined; fortune possible; but in any case the public interest
served. He talked shrewdly, but also with ardour and imagination; she was stirred, excited
even; and all the time she liked the foreignness of his voice, the outline of his profile against
the sky, and all the other elements of his physical presence.

But in the midst of his castle-building he broke off.

"However, I'm a silly fool to talk like this. I'm going out to the front directly. Perhaps
my bullet's waiting for me."

"Oh, no!" she said involuntarily--"no!"

"I hope not. I don't want to die just yet. I want to get married, for one thing."

He spoke lightly, and she laughed.

"Well, that's easy enough."

He shook his head, but said nothing. They walked on till they reached the edge of the hill,
when Rachel, out of breath, sat down on a fallen log to rest a little. Below them stretched
the hollow upland, with its encircling woods and its white stubble fields. Far below lay the
dark square of the farm, with a light in one of its windows.

Rachel pointed to the grass road by which they had come.

"We haven't seen the ghost!"

He asked her for the story, and she told it. By now she had pieced it all together; and it
seemed to Ellesborough that it had a morbid fascination for her.

"He dragged himself down this very path," she said. "They tracked him by the blood stains;
his wounds dripped all along it. And then he fell, just under my cart-shed. It was a horrible,
bitter night. Of course the silly people here say they hear groans and dragging steps: That's
all nonsense, but I sometimes wish it hadn't happened at my farm."

He couldn't help laughing gently at her foolishness.

"Why, it's a great distinction to have a ghost!"

She disagreed--decidedly.

"Any one can have my ghost that wants. I'm awfully easily scared."

"Are you?" There was a deep note in his voice. "No, I don't believe that. I'm sure you're a
plucky woman. I know you are!"

She laughed out.

"How do you know?"

"Why, no one but a plucky woman could have taken this farm and be working it as you're doing."

"That's not pluck," she said, half scornfully. "But if it is--well, I've got plenty of pluck
of that kind. But I am often scared, downright scared, about nothing. It's just fear, that's
what it is."

"Fear of what?"

"I don't know."

She spoke in a sombre, shrinking tone, which struck him uncomfortably. But when he tried further
to discover what she meant, she would say nothing more. He noticed, indeed, that she would
often seem to turn the talk upon herself, only to cut it short again immediately. She offered
him openings, and then he could make nothing of them; so that when they reached the outskirts
of the farm on their return, he had given her all the main outlines of his own history, and
she had said almost nothing of hers.

But all the same the walk had drawn them much nearer.

He stopped her at the little gate to say,--

"I'm going to ask you again--I want you to write to me when I'm in France."

And this time she said almost eagerly,--

"Yes, I'll write; indeed I'll write! But you'll come over again before you go?"

"Rather," he said joyously; "rather! Why, there's a month. You'll be tired of me before you've
done."

A few minutes later she was standing in her own little room, listening to the retreating rush
of his motor-cycle down the road. There was a great tumult in her mind.

"Am I falling in love with him? Am I--am I?"

But in the dark, when she had put out her light, the cry that shaped itself in her mind was
identical with that sudden misgiving of the afternoon, when on Ellesborough's arrival she had
first heard his voice downstairs talking to Janet.

"I wish he knew!" But this time it was no mere passing qualm. It had grown into something intense
and haunting.

       *       *       *       *       *

On this same September afternoon, a dark-eyed, shabby woman, with a little girl, alighted at
Millsborough Station. They were met by a man who had been lounging about the station for some
time and whose appearance had attracted some attention. "See him at a distance, and you might
take him for a lord; but get him close, my word!--" said the station-master to the booking-clerk,
with a shrug, implying many things.

"Wouldn't give a bob for his whole blessed turn-out," said the booking-clerk. "But right you
are, when you sort of get the hang of him, far enough away on the other platform, might be a dook!"

Meanwhile, the man had shouldered some of the bags and parcels brought by the woman and the
child, though hardly his fair share of them; and they finally reached the exit from the station.

"If you're going into the town, the bus will be here in a few minutes," said a porter civilly
to the woman. "It'll help you with all those things."

The man gruffly answered for her that they preferred to walk, and they started, the woman and
the child dragging wearily beside him.

"Now, you've got to be content with what I've found for you," he said to her roughly as they
reached the first houses of the town. "There isn't scarcely a lodging or a cottage to be had.
Partly it's the holidays still, and partly it's silly folk like you--scared of raids."

"I couldn't go through another winter like last, for Nina's sake," said the woman plaintively.

"Why, you silly goose, there won't be any raids this winter. I've told you so scores of times.
We've got the upper hand now, and the Boche will keep his planes at home. But as you won't
listen to me, you've got to have your way, I suppose. Well, I've got you rooms of a sort. They'll
have to do. I haven't got money enough for anything decent."

The woman made no reply, and to the porter idly looking after them they were soon lost from
sight in the gathering dusk of the road.

V

The little town of Millsborough was en fête. There was a harvest festival going on, and the
County Agricultural Committee had taken the opportunity to celebrate the successful gathering
of the crops, and the part taken in it by the woman land-workers under their care. They had
summoned the land lasses from far and wide; in a field on the outskirts of the town competitions
had been in full swing all the morning, and now there were to be speeches in the market-place,
and a final march of land girls, boy scouts, and decorated wagons to the old Parish Church,
where a service was to be held.

All Millsborough, indeed, was in the streets to look at the procession, and the crowd was swelled
by scores of cadets from a neighbouring camp, who were good-heartedly keeping the route, and
giving a military air to the show. But the flower-decked wagons were the centre of interest.
The first in the line was really a brilliant performance. It was an old wagon of Napoleonic
days, lent by a farmer, whose forebears had rented the same farm since William and Mary. Every
spoke of the wheels blazed with red geraniums; there was a fringe of heather along the edge
of the cart, while vegetables, huge marrows, turnips, carrots, and onions dangled from its
sides, and the people inside sat under a nodding canopy of tall and splendid wheat, mixed with
feathery barley. But the passengers were perhaps the most attractive thing about it. They were
four old women in lilac sunbonnets. They were all over seventy, and they had all worked bravely
in the harvest. The crowd cheered them vociferously, and they sat, looking timidly out on the
scene with smiling eyes and tremulous lips, their grey hair blowing about their wrinkled, wholesome
faces.

Beside the wagon walked a detachment of land girls. One of them was the granddaughter of one
of the old women, and occasionally a word would pass between them.

"Eh, Bessie, but I'd like to git down! They mun think us old fools, dizened up this way."

"No, gran; you must ride. You're the very best bit of the show. Why, just listen how the folk
cheer you!"

The old woman sighed.

"I'd like to look at it mysel'," she said with a childish plaintiveness. But her tall granddaughter,
in full uniform, with a rake over her shoulder, thought this a foolish remark, and made no reply.

In the second wagon, Rachel Henderson in full land-dress--tunic, knee-breeches, and leggings--stood
in the front of the cart, guiding two white horses, their manes and tails gaily plaited with
ribbons, and scarlet badges on their snowy heads.

"Eh, but yon's a fine woman!" said an old farmer of the humbler sort to his neighbour. "Yo'll
not tell me she's a land lassie?"

"Noa, noa; she's the new farmer at Great End--a proud body, they say, an' a great hustler!
The men say she's allus at 'em. But they don't mind her neither. She treats 'em well. Them's
her two land girls walking beside."

For Betty and Jenny mounted guard, their harvest rakes on their shoulders, beside their mistress,
who attracted all eyes as she passed, and knew it. Behind her in the cart sat Janet Leighton;
and the two remaining seats were filled by the Vicar of Ipscombe and Lady Alicia Shepherd,
the wife of the owner of Great End Farm and of the middle-sized estate to which the farm belonged.

Lady Alicia was a thin woman, with an excitable temperament, to judge from her restless mouth
and eyes, which were never still for a moment. She was very fashionably dressed and held a
lace parasol. The crowd scarcely recognized her, which annoyed her, for in her own estimation
she was an important member of the Women's Committee which looked after the land girls. The
war had done a great deal for Lady Alicia. It had dragged her from a sofa, where she was rapidly
becoming a neurasthenic invalid, and had gradually drilled her into something like a working
day. She lived in a flurry of committees; but as committees must exist, and Lady Alicias must
apparently be on them; she had found a sort of vocation, and with the help of other persons
of more weight she had not done badly.

She did not quite understand how it was that she found herself in Miss Henderson's wagon. The
committee had refused to have a wagon of its own, and the good-natured vicar had arranged it
for her. She did not herself much like Miss Henderson. Her husband had sent her to call upon
the new tenants, and she had been much puzzled. They were ladies, she supposed. They spoke
quite nicely, and Miss Henderson seemed to be the daughter of a clergyman. But she was afraid
they were dreadful Socialists! She had talked to Miss Henderson about the awful--the wicked--wages
that the Brookshire board had just fixed for the labourer.

"My husband says they'll simply crush the life out of farming. We shall all be ruined, and
where will the labourer be then?"

And Miss Henderson had looked quite unpleasant. It was high time, she said, that the labourer
should have enough to live on--decently; really thrown the word at you. And Colonel Shepherd
had told his wife that he understood from Hastings Miss Henderson had raised her wages before
the award of the Wages Board. Well, he only hoped the young woman had got some money behind
her, otherwise she would be finding herself in Queer Street and he would be whistling for his rent.

The wagons drew up in the centre of the market-place, and the band which the cadets had brought
with them struck up "God Save the King." Lady Alicia rose at once and nudged her little boy,
whom she had brought with her, to take off his cap. She looked approvingly over the crowd,
which was growing denser and denser every moment. It was so that she really enjoyed the populace--at
a safe distance--and ready to lend itself to the blandishments of its natural leaders. Where
was her husband, Colonel Shepherd? Of course they would want him to speak at some time in the
proceedings. But she looked for him in vain.

Meanwhile, the speaking was beginning from the first cart. A land girl who had played a rousing
part in the recruiting campaign of the early summer was speaking in a high voice, clearly heard
by the crowd. She was tall and pretty, and spoke without a sign of hesitation or self-consciousness.
She gloried in the harvest, in the splendid news from the war, in the growth of the Woman's
Land Army. "We've just been proud to do our bit at home while our boys have been fighting over
there. They'll be home soon, perhaps, and won't we give them a welcome! And we'll show them
the harvest that we've helped to reap--the biggest harvest that England's ever known!--the
harvest that's going to beat the Boche." The young simple voice flowed on, with its simple
story and its note of enthusiasm, and sometimes of humour. "It's hard work, but we love it!
It's cold work often, but we love it! The horses and the cows and the pigs--they're naughty
often, but they're nice!---yes, the pigs, too. It's the beasts and the fields and the open
air we love!"

Betty looked at Jenny with a grin.

"Jenny!--them pigsties yesterday; d'ye think she's ever cleaned one out?"

"I know she has," said Jenny confidentially. "She's Farmer Green's girl, out Ralstone way.
Ee says there ain't nothing she can't do. Ee don't want no men while he's got 'er. They offered
him soldiers, and ee wouldn't have 'em."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Silly, sentimental young woman," said a tall man, with a pipe in his mouth, who had just lounged
up to the outskirts of the crowd, from a side street. "Who's she going to take in here? What's
the good of talking poetry about farming to a lot of country people? A London shop-girl, I
guess. What does she know about it?"

"You bets she knows a lot," said a young man beside him, who, to judge from his uniform, was
one of the Canadians employed at Ralstone camp. He had been taken with the "sentimental young
woman," and was annoyed by the uncivil remarks of his neighbour. "Wonder what farm she's on?"

"Oh, you know these parts?" said the other, removing his pipe for a moment and looking down
on his companion.

"Well, not exactly." The reply was hesitating. "My grandfather went out to Canada from a place
near here sixty years ago. I used to hear him and my mother talk about Millsborough."

"Beastly hole!" said the other, replacing his pipe.

"I don't agree with you at all," said the other angrily. "It's as nice a little town of its
size as you'd find anywhere."

The other shrugged his shoulders. A man a few yards off in the crowd happened at that moment
to be looking in the direction of the two speakers. It was the ticket-collector at the station,
enjoying an afternoon off. He recognized the taller of the two men as the "dook" he had seen
at Millsborough station about a week ago. The man's splendid carriage and iron-grey head were
not to be mistaken--also his cadaverous and sickly look, and his shabby clothes. The ticket-collector
saw that the man was holding the dark-eyed, "furrin-looking" child by the hand, which the woman
he met had brought down with her. "Furriners," he supposed, all of them; part of that stream
of fugitives from air raids that had been flowing out of London during the preceding winter,
and was now flowing out again, as the next winter approached, though in less volume. Every
house and lodging in Millsborough was full, prices had gone up badly, and life in Millsborough
was becoming extremely uncomfortable for its normal inhabitants--"all along o' these panicky
aliens!" thought the ticket-collector, resentfully, as he looked at the tall man.

The tall man, however, was behaving as though the market-place belonged to him, talking to
his neighbours, who mostly looked at him askance, and every now and then breaking into a contemptuous
laugh, provoked apparently by the eloquence of the young woman in the wagon. Meanwhile the
little girl whose hand he held was trying to pull him into a better place for seeing the rest
of the procession. For from the place where they stood on the outskirts of the crowd, the foremost
wagon with its nodding wheat and sheaves, its speaker, its old women, and its bodyguard of
girls entirely hid the cart behind it.

"Dis way, pappa, dis way," said the child, dragging him. He let her draw him, and suddenly
from behind the speaker's cart there emerged the second wagon with its white horses; Rachel
Henderson, the observed of all beholders, standing flushed and smiling, with the reins in her
hands, the vicar just behind her, and Lady Alicia's lace parasol.

"My God!" said the man.

His sudden start, and clutch at the child's hand made the child cry out. He checked her with
a savage word, and while she whimpered unheeded, he stood motionless, sheltering himself behind
a girl with a large hat who stood in front of him, his eyes fixed on the Great End wagon. A
ghastly white had replaced the patchy red on his cheeks, and had any careful observer chanced
to notice him at the moment, he or she would have been struck by the expression of his face--as
of some evil, startled beast aware of its enemy, and making ready to spring.

But the expression passed. With a long breath, Roger Delane pulled himself together.

"Hold your noise, Nina," he said roughly to the child. "If you'll be a good girl, I'll put
you on my shoulder."

The child stopped crying at once, and Delane, raising her on to his shoulder, pulling his own
soft hat over his eyes and placing the child so that her dress concealed his own features.
Then he resumed an excited scrutiny of the Great End wagon. At the same moment he saw a man
in uniform making his way through the crowd towards Miss Henderson who was waving to him. An
officer--an American officer. Delane recognized at once the high collar and the leathern peak
to the cap.

The crowd had already begun to cheer him. He reached the Great End wagon, and its mistress,
all smiles, bent over to speak to him. She and the vicar seemed to be giving directions, to
which the American with a laughing shrug assented, going off to the front wagon, evidently
in obedience to orders. There the girl speaker had just sat down amid a hearty cheer from the
crowd; and the chairman of the meeting, a burly farmer, eagerly came to the side of the wagon,
and helped the American officer into the cart. Then with a stentorian voice the chairman announced
that Captain Ellesborough from Ralstone camp had come "to tell us what America is doing!" A
roar from the crowd. Ellesborough saluted gaily, and then his hands in his pockets began to
talk to them. His speech, which was a racy summary of all that America was doing to help the
Allies, was delivered to a ringing accompaniment of cheers from the thronged market-place,
rising to special thunder when the captain dwelt on the wheat and bacon that America was pouring
across the Atlantic to feed a hungry Europe.

"We've tightened our own belts already; we can tighten them, I dare say, a few holes more.
Everybody in America's growing something, and making something. When a man thinks he's done
enough, and wants to rest a bit, the man next him gets behind him with a bradawl. There's no
rest for anybody. We've just registered thirteen million men. That sounds like business, doesn't
it? No slacking there! Well, we mean business. And you mean business. And the women mean business."

Then a passage about the women, which set the land girls grinning at each other, and at the
men in the crowd, ending in three cheers for Marshal Foch and Sir Douglas Haig, which came
echoing back from the Fourteenth Century church and the old houses which ringed the market-place.

All eyes were on the speaker, no one noticed the tall man with the olive-skinned child on his
shoulder. He himself, with thumping pulses, never ceased to watch the figures and movements
in the second wagon. He saw Miss Henderson sit down and another woman also in tunic and knickers
take her place. He watched her applauding the speaker, or talking with the clergyman behind
her, or the lady with the lace parasol. And when the speech was over, amid a hurricane of enthusiasm,
when the resolution had been put and carried, and the bells in the old church-tower began to
ring out a deafening joy-peal above the dispersing crowd, he saw the American officer jump
down from the speaker's wagon and return to Miss Henderson. Steps were brought, and Captain
Ellesborough handed out the ladies. Then he and Rachel Henderson went away side by side, laughing
and talking, towards the porch of the church, where Delane lost them from sight.

The market-place emptied rapidly. The decorated wagons moved off to the field where the competitions
had been held in the morning, and some of the crowd with them. Another portion streamed into
the church, and soon only a few scattered groups were left.

The tall man put down the child, and was seized with a fit of coughing, which left him more
pallid and sunken-eyed than before. When it was over, he noticed a group of elderly labourers.
They had come late into the meeting, and were making for the bar of the Cow-roast Inn, but
before they entered it Delane went up to one of them.

"I'm a stranger here," he said carelessly. "Can you tell me who all these people were in the
wagons?"

The man addressed--who was old Halsey--gave the speaker a reconnoitring look.

"Well, I dunno neither," he said cautiously, "leastways, many of 'em. There was my old missus,
in the first one. She didn't want to go, dressed up in them sunbonnets. But they made such
a fuss of her, she had to. There was Farmer Broughton I seed, an' I don't know nobody else."

"Well, but the second wagon?" said Delane impatiently.

"Oh, the second wagon. Why, that was Miss Henderson. Don't ye know 'er? I works for 'er?"

"Is she on the land?"

The old man laughed.

"That she be! She's a farmer, is Miss Henderson, an' she frames pretty fair. She don't know
much yet, but what she don't know Hastings tells, her."

"Who's Hastings?"

"Why, her bailiff, to be sure. You do be a stranger, not knowin' Muster Hastings?"

"I'm just here for a few weeks. It's a rum business, isn't it, this of women taking farms?"

Halsey nodded reflectively.

"Aye, it's a queer business. But they do be cleverer at it than ye'd think. Miss Henderson's
a good head-piece of her own."

"And some money, I suppose?"

"Well, that's not my look out, is it, so long as I gits my wages? I dessay Colonel Shepherd,
ee sees to that. Well, good-day to you. I'm goin' in to get summat to drink. It's a dryin'
wind to-day, and a good bit walk from Ipscombe."

"Is that where you live?"

"Aye--an' Miss Henderson's place is just t'other side. A good mile to Ipscombe, and near a
mile beyont. I didn't want to come, but my old woman she nagged me to come an' see her 'ome."

And with another nod, the old man turned into the public, where his mates were already enjoying
the small beer of the moment.

For a few minutes, Delane strolled down the main road in silence, the child playing at his
heels. Then he turned abruptly, called the child, and went up the side street from which he
had appeared when the meeting began.

A quarter of an hour later he returned to the market-place alone. The service in the church
was still going on. He could hear them singing, the harvest hymn: "We plough the fields and
scatter--The good seed on the land." But he did not stop to listen. He walked on rapidly in
the direction of Ipscombe.

Delane found the main line from Millsborough to Ipscombe dotted at intervals with groups of
persons returning from the harvest festival--elderly women with children, a few old labourers,
a few soldiers on leave, with a lively fringe of noisy boys and girls skirmishing round and
about their elders, like so many young animals on the loose. The evening light was failing.
The pools left by a passing shower, gleamed along the road, and the black elms and oaks, scarcely
touched as yet by autumn gold, stood straight and sharp against a rainy sky.

The tall, slouching man scrutinized the various groups as he passed them, as though making
up his mind whether to address them or not. He wore a shabby greatcoat, warmer than the day
demanded, and closely buttoned across the chest. The rest of his dress, felt hat, dark trousers,
and tan boots, had all of it come originally from expensive shops, but was now only just presentable.
The one thing in good condition about him was the Malacca cane he carried, which had a carved
jade handle, and was altogether out of keeping with his general appearance.

All the same there was something striking in that appearance. Face, figure and dress represented
the wreck of more than one kind of distinction. The face must once have been exceptionally
handsome, before an underlying commonness and coarseness had been brought out or emphasized
by developments of character and circumstance. The mouth was now loose and heavy. The hazel
eyes had lost their youth, and were disfigured by the premature wrinkles of either ill-health
or dissipation. None the less, a certain carriage of the head and shoulders, a certain magnificence
in the whole general outline of the man, especially in the defiant eyes and brow, marked him
out from the crowd, and drew attention of strangers.

Many persons looked at him, as he at them, while he swung slowly along the road. At last he
crossed over towards an elderly man in company with a young soldier, who was walking lamely
with a stick.

"Excuse me," he said, formally, addressing the elder man, "but am I right for Ipscombe?"

"That you are, muster. The next turnin' to the right'll bring yer to it." Peter Betts looked
the stranger over as he spoke, with an inquisitive eye.

"You've come from the meeting, I suppose?"

"Ay. We didn't go to the service. That worn't in our line. But we heerd the speeches out o' doors."

"The carts were fine!--especially the second one."

"Ay--that's our missis. She and the two girls done the dressin' o' the cart."

"What's her name?"

"Well, her name's Henderson," said the old man, speaking with an amiable, half careless detachment,
the manner rather of a philosopher than a gossip.

"She's the farmer's wife?"

"Noa, she ain't. She's the farmer herself--'at's what she is. She's took the farm from Colonel
Shepherd--she did--all on her own. To be sure there's Miss Leighton as lives with her. But
it do seem to me as Miss Henderson's--as you might say--the top 'un. And me an' James Halsey
works for her."

"Miss Henderson? She's not married?"

"Not she!" said old Betts emphatically. "She's like a lot o' women nowadays, I guess. They
doan't want to be married."

"Perhaps nobody 'as wanted to marry 'em, dad!" said his elder son, grinning at his own stale jest.

Betts shook a meditative head.

"Noa--yo'll not explain it that way," he said mildly. "Some of 'em's good-looking--Miss Henderson
'ersel', by token. A very 'andsome up-standin' young woman is Miss Henderson."

Delane followed all these remarks with close attention, and continued a rather skilful examination.
He learnt that Great End was a farm of about two hundred and fifty acres, that Miss Henderson
seemed to have "lots o' money," and had sold her autumn crops very well, that Miss Leighton
managed the stock and the dairy with the help of two land-girls, and it was thought by the
village that the two ladies "was doin' fine."

Arrived at the village, Betts turned into his cottage, with a nod to his companion, and Delane
went on his way.

The lane on the farther side of the village was dark under branching trees. Delane stumbled
along it, coughing at intervals, and gripped by the rising chill of the September evening.
A little beyond the trees he caught sight of the farm against the hill. Yes, it was lonesome,
as the old man said, but a big, substantial-looking place. Rachel's place! And Rachel had "lots
o' money"--and as to her health and well-being, why the sight of her on that cart was enough.
That vision of her indeed--of the flushed, smiling face under the khaki hat, of the young form
in the trim tunic and leggings, and, not least, of the admiring crowd about her, kept returning
upon the man's furious sense as something not to be borne, a recurrent blow from which he could
not escape.

And that American chap--that Yankee officer who had walked off with her to the church--what
was the meaning of that? They were not strangers, that was plain. She had beckoned to him from
the cart. The manner of their short conversation, indeed, showed them well acquainted. She
told him to go and speak--and he had gone--with alacrity--smiling back at her. Courting, no
doubt! Rachel could never let a man alone--or live, without a man after her. A brutal phrase
shaped itself--a vile epithet or two--flung into the solitude of the lane.

When he emerged from the trees into a space of greater light between two stubble fields, Delane
suddenly drew a letter from his pocket. While Rachel was flaunting with "lots of money"--this
was how his affairs were going.

"DEAR ROGER,--I can do nothing for you. Your demands are simply insatiable. If you write me
any more begging letters, or if you attempt again to force your way into my house as you did
last week, I shall tell the bank to cancel your allowance, and wash my hands of you altogether.
My husband's determined to stop this kind of thing. Don't imagine you can either threaten us,
or come round us. We have tried again and again to help and reform you. It is no good--and
now we give you up. You have worn us out. If you are wise, you will not answer this--and if
you keep quiet the allowance shall be continued. MARIANNE TILNEY."

That was a nice letter to get from a man's only sister! Allowance! What was £100 a year to
a woman as rich as Marianne? And what was the use of £100 a year to him, with living at the
price it was now? His wretched pittance besides, doled out to him by his father's trustees
under his father's will, brought his whole income up to £300 a year. How was a man to live
on that, and support a woman and child?

And here was Rachel--free--bursting with health--and possessed of "lots of money." She thought,
no doubt, that she had done with him--thrust him out of her life altogether. He'd let her see!
Whose fault was it that he had taken up with Anita? Nagging, impossible creature!--with her
fine ladyisms and her tempers, and her insolent superior ways!

He walked on, consumed with a bitterness which held him like a physical anguish. By now he
had reached the farm gate. The sunset had cleared and deepened. Great rosy thunder-clouds topped
the down, and strong lights were climbing up the bronzed masses of wood behind the house. No
one to be seen. At Millsborough they could hardly be out of church yet. He had time before
him. He walked cautiously up the farm-lane, diverging to the left as he reached the buildings
so as to escape the notice of any one who might be left in charge. As he slipped under the
large cart-shed which backed on the cow-house, he heard somebody whistling inside. It was old
Halsey, who had done the afternoon milking in the absence of the girls. Delane could hear the
movements of the labourer, and the munching of the cows. A little farther on was the stable,
and two horses' heads, looking pensively out from the open half of the door. Delane peered
into the stable with the eye of one to whom all farming matters were familiar. Three fine horses--d---d
fine horses!--must have cost £100 a piece at least. No doubt the cows were equally good stuff.
And he had noticed under the outer cart-shed a brand-new reaper and binder, and other farm
implements and machines of the best quality. Rachel was doing the thing in style.

But where was the farm-house? Then as he crept round the third side of the rough quadrangle,
he became aware of a large window with white curtains. Looking through it with his face against
the glass, he was startled to find that he was looking straight into the farm-yard through
another window of equal size on the other side of the room. And at the moment Halsey came out
of the cow-shed carrying a pail of milk in either hand. Delane drew hastily back into the shelter
of an old holly that grew against the wall, till the old man had disappeared. Then he eagerly
examined the room, which was still suffused by the sunset. Its prettiness and comfort were
so many fresh exasperations. He contrasted it inwardly with the wretched lodging from which
he had just come. Why, he knew the photographs on the walls--her father, the old parson, and
her puritanical mother, whom Rachel had always thrown in his teeth. Her eldest brother, too,
who had been drowned at sea. And that engraving--that sentimental thing by Watts, "Love and
Death," that Rachel had bought once on a visit to Toronto, and he had scolded her for buying.
There it was, as large as life. How did it come there? Was it her property or his? He believed
he could claim it, if he chose. Gad!--what would she say if she knew where he was at that moment,
and what he was doing!

For eighteen months she had hidden herself so cleverly that he had entirely lost sight of her.
When her lawyers communicated with him in the spring they had been careful to give no address.
On the whole he had believed her to be still in Canada. She, on the other hand, unless she
were a greater fool than he thought her, must have guessed that he would get back to England
somehow. Why, the farm had ended in bankruptcy, and what else was there to do but to come home
and dun his relations! Yet she had not been afraid to come home herself, and set up in this
conspicuous way. She supposed, of course, that she had done with him for good--kicked him off
like an old shoe! The rage in his blood set his heart beating to suffocation. Then his cough
seized him again. He stifled it as best he could, flattened against the wall, in the shadow
of a yew-tree.

The sound, however, was apparently heard, for there were rapid steps across the farm-yard,
and a gate opened. "Hallo--who's there?" The voice was, no doubt, that of the labourer he had
seen. Delane slipped noiselessly along the wall, and to the back of the stables, till all was
quiet again within the farm.

But outside in the road there were persons approaching. He mounted the hill a little way into
the shelter of the trees which covered the steep face of the down, and ran up into the great
woods along the crest. Through the gathering dusk he saw the large farm-cart clattering up
the lane with several figures in it. The cart carried lamps, which sent shafts of light over
the stubbles. There was a sound of talk and laughter, and alongside the cart he saw a man leading
a motor-bicycle, and apparently talking to the women in the cart. A man in uniform. The American,
no doubt!

The cart drew up at the farm-yard gates, and the old labourer came to open them. Everybody
dismounted, except one of the girls, who, standing in the wagon, drove the horses. Then, for
a time, Delane could see nothing more. The farm quadrangle had absorbed the party. Occasionally
a light flashed, or a voice could be heard calling, or laughter came floating up the hill through
an open door or window. But in a little while all was silence.

Delane sat down on a fallen trunk, and watched. All kinds of images were rushing through his
brain--wide wheat fields with a blazing sun on the stooks--a small frame house set nakedly
on the flat prairie with a bit of untidy garden round it--its living room in winter, with a
huge fire, and a woman moving about--the creek behind it, and himself taking horses down to
water. They were images of something that had once meant happiness and hope--a temporary break
or interlude in a dismal tale which had closed upon it before and after.

Darkness came down. The man on the hill said to himself, "Now they are having supper," and
he crept down again to the farm, and crouching and wriggling along he made his way again to
the big window, over which the curtains had been drawn. There was no one in the sitting-room,
however, to judge from the silence, but from the kitchen across the passage came a rush of
voices, together with a clatter of plates. The kitchen looked out on the front of the farm,
and a wooden shutter had been fastened across the window. But the wood of the shutter was old
and full of chinks, and Delane, pressing his face to the window, was able to get just a glimpse
of the scene within--Rachel at the head of the table, the man in uniform beside her--three
other women. A paraffin lamp threw the shadow of the persons at the table sharply on the white
distempered wall. There were flowers on the table, and the meal wore a home-like and tempting
air to the crouching spy outside. Rachel smiled incessantly, and it seemed to Delane that the
handsome man beside her could not take his eyes from her. Nor could Delane. Her brown head
and white throat, her soft, rose-tinted face emerging from the black dress, were youth itself--a
vision of youth and lusty-hood brilliantly painted on the white wall.

Delane looked his fill. Then he dropped down the bank on which the farm stood, and avoiding
the open track through the fields, he skirted a hedge which led down to the road, and was lost
in the shadows of advancing night.

VI

Rain!--how it pelted the September fields day after day and week after week, as though to remind
a world still steeped in, still drunk with the most wonderful of harvests, that the gods had
not yet forgotten their old jealousy of men, and men's prosperity. Whenever a fine day came
the early ploughing and seeding was in full swing, and Rachel on one side of the largest field
could watch the drill at work, and on the other the harrow which covered in the seed. In the
next field, perhaps, she would find Betty and Jenny lifting potatoes, and would go to help
with them, digging and sorting, till every limb ached and she seemed to be a part herself of
the damp brown earth that she was robbing of its treasure. For a time when the harvest was
done, when the ricks were thatched ready for threshing, there had been a moment of ease. But
with the coming of October, the pressure began again. The thought of the coming frost and of
all those greedy mouths of cattle, sheep, and horses to be filled through the winter, drove
and hunted the workers on Great End Farm, as they have driven and hunted the children of earth
since tilling and stock-keeping began. Under the hedges near the house, the long potato caves
had been filled and covered in; the sheep were in the turnips, and every two or three days,
often under torrents of rain, Rachel and the two girls must change the hurdles, and put the
hungry, pushing creatures on to fresh ground. On the top of the down, there was fern to be
cut and carted for the winter fodder, and fallen wood to be gathered for fuel, under the daily
threats of the coal-controller.

Rachel worked hard and long. How she loved the life that once under other skies and other conditions
she had loathed! Ownership and command had given her a new dignity, in a sense a new beauty.
Her labourers and her land girls admired and obeyed her, while--perhaps!--Janet Leighton had
their hearts. Rachel's real self seemed to be something that no one knew; her companions were
never quite at ease with her; and yet her gay, careless ways, the humanity and natural fairness
of her mind, carried a spell that made her rule sit light upon them.

Yes!--after all these weeks together, not even Janet knew her much better. The sense of mystery
remained; although the progress of the relation between her and Ellesborough was becoming very
evident, not only indeed to Janet, but to everybody at the farm. His departure for France had
been delayed owing to the death in action of the officer who was to have been sent home to
replace him. It might be a month now before he left. Meanwhile, every Sunday he spent some
hours at the farm, and generally on a couple of evenings in the week he would arrive just after
supper, help to put the animals to bed, and then stay talking with Rachel in the sitting-room,
while Janet tidied up in the kitchen. Janet, the warm-hearted, had become much attached to
him. He had been at no pains to hide the state of his feelings from her. Indeed, though he
had said nothing explicit, his whole attitude to Rachel's friend and partner was now one of
tacit appeal for sympathy. And she was more than ready to give it. Her uprightness, and the
touch of austerity in her, reached out to similar qualities in him; and the intellectual dissent
which she derived from her East Anglican forbears, from the circles which in eighteenth-century
Norwich gathered round Mrs. Opie, the Martineaus, and the Aldersons, took kindly to the same
forces in him; forces descended from that New England Puritanism which produced half the great
men--and women--of an earlier America. Rachel laughed at them for 'talking theology,' not suspecting
that as the weeks went on they talked--whenever they got a chance--less and less of theology,
and more and more of herself, through the many ingenious approaches that a lover invents and
the amused and sympathetic friend abets.

For clearly Ellesborough was in love. Janet read the signs of it in the ease with which he
had accepted the postponement of his release from the camp, eager as he was to get to the fighting
line. She heard it in his voice, saw it in his eyes; and she was well aware that Rachel saw
it. What Rachel thought and felt was more obscure. She watched for Ellesborough; she put on
her best frocks for him; she was delighted to laugh and talk with him. But she watched for
Mr. Shenstone, too, and would say something caustic or impatient if he were two or three days
without calling. And when he called, Rachel very seldom snubbed him, as at first. She was all
smiles; the best frocks came out for him, too; and Janet, seeing the growing beatitude of the
poor vicar, and the growing nervousness of his sister, was often inclined to be really angry
with Rachel. But they were not yet on such terms as would allow her to remonstrate with what
seemed to her a rather unkind bit of flirtation; seeing that she did not believe that Rachel
had, or ever would have, a serious thought to give the shallow, kindly little man.

But though she held her tongue, Janet showed her feeling sometimes by a tone, or a lifted eyebrow,
and then Rachel would look at her askance, turning the vicar's head none the less on the next
occasion. Was it that she was deceiving herself, as well as trying, very unsuccessfully, to
deceive the lookers-on? The progress of the affair with Ellesborough made on Janet a curious
and rather sinister impression, which she could hardly explain to herself. She seemed to see
that Ellesborough's suit steadily advanced; that Rachel made no real attempt to resist his
power over her. But all the same there was no happy, spontaneous growth in it. Rachel seemed
to take her increasing subjection hardly, to be fighting obscurely against it all the time,
as though she were hampered by thought and motives unknown to the other two. Ellesborough,
Janet thought, was often puzzled by the cynical or bitter talk with which Rachel would sometimes
deliberately provoke him. And yet it was clear that he possessed the self-confidence of a strong
man, and did not really doubt his ultimate power to win and hold the woman he was courting.

One bitterly cold evening at the very end of September, Ellesborough, arriving at the farm,
was welcomed by Janet, and told that all hands were in the fields "clamping" potatoes. She
herself left a vegetable stew ready for supper, safely simmering in a hay-box, and walked towards
the potato field with Ellesborough. On the way they fell in with Hastings, the bailiff, who
was walking fast, and seemed to be in some excitement.

"Miss Leighton--that old fool Halsey has given notice!"

Janet stopped in dismay. Halsey was a valuable man, an old-fashioned labourer of many aptitudes,
equally good as a woodman, as an expert in "fagging" or sickling beaten-down corn, as a thatcher
of roofs or ricks, as a setter of traps for moles, or snares for rabbits. Halsey was the key-stone
of the farm labour. Betts was well enough. But without Halsey's intelligence to keep him straight--Janet
groaned.

"What on earth's the matter, Hastings? We raised his wages last week--and we did it before
the county award was out!"

Hastings shook his head.

"It's not wages. He says he's seen the ghost!"

Janet exclaimed, and Ellesborough laughed.

"What, the defunct gamekeeper?"

Hastings nodded.

"Vows he's seen him twice--once on the hill--on the green path--and once disappearing round
the corner of the farm. He declares that he called to the man--who was like nobody he had ever
seen before--and the man took no notice, but went along, all hunched up--as they say the ghost
is--and talking to himself--till all of a sudden he vanished. I've argued with him. But nothing'll
hold him--old idiot! He vows he'll go---and if he talks to the others they'll all go."

"Has he gone home?" asked Janet.

"Long ago. He left the horses to Jenny, and just marched off. In the lane he met me, and gave
notice. Such a cock-and-bull story as you never heard! But I couldn't do anything with him."

"I'll go and tackle him," said Janet at once. "We can't lose him. The work will go to smash."

She waved a farewell to Ellesborough, and ran back to the house. The others, watching, saw
her emerge on her bicycle and disappear towards the village.

"Well, if anybody can move the old fellow, I suppose it's Miss Leighton," said Hastings disconsolately.
"She's always managed to get the right side of him so far. But I'm nearly beat, captain! Things
are getting too hard for me. You can't say a word to these men--they're off in a moment. And
the wages!--it's sinful!"

"We're supposed only to be fighting a war, Hastings," said Ellesborough with a smile as they
walked on together. "But all the time there's revolution going on beside it--all over the world!"

Hastings made a face.

"Right you are, captain. And how's it going to work out?"

"Don't ask me!" laughed Ellesborough--"we've all got to sit tight and hope for the best. All
I know is that the people who work with their hands are going to get a bit of their own back
from the people who work with their heads--or their cheque-books. And I'm glad of it! But ghosts
are a silly nuisance. However, I dare say Miss Leighton will get round the old man."

Hastings looked doubtful.

"I don't know. All the talk about the murder has come up again. They say there's a grandson
come home of the man that was suspected sixty years ago--John Dempsey. And some people tell
me that this lad had the whole story of the murder from his grandfather--who confessed it--only
last year, when the man died."

"Well, if he's dead all right, and has owned up to it, why on earth does the ghost make a fuss?"

Hastings shook his head.

"People get talking," he said gloomily. "And when they get talking, they'll believe anything--and
see anything. It'll be the girls next."

Ellesborough tried to cheer him, but without much success. The "poor spirit" of the bailiff
was a perpetual astonishment to the American, in the prime of his own life and vigour. Existence
for Hastings was always either drab or a black business. If the weather was warm, "a bit of
cold would ha' been better": if a man recovered from an illness, he'd still got the "bother
o' dyin' before him." He was certain we should lose the war, and the rush of the September
victories did not affect him. And if we didn't lose it, no matter--prices and wages would still
be enough to ruin us. Rachel grew impatient under the constant drench of pessimism. Janet remembered
that the man was a delicate man, nearing the sixties, with, as she suspected, but small provision
laid up for old age; with an ailing wife; and bearing the marks in body and spirit of years
of overwork. She never missed an opportunity of doing him a kindness; and the consequence was
that Hastings, always faithful, even to his worst employers, was passionately faithful to his
new mistresses, defending them and fighting for their interests, as they were sometimes hardly
inclined to fight for themselves.

After showing Ellesborough the way to the "clamps," Hastings left him. In succession to the
long days of rain there had been a sudden clearing in the skies. The day had been fine, and
now, towards sunset, there was a grand massing of rosy cloud along the edge of the down, and
windy lights over the valley. Rachel, busy with the covering of the potato "clamps," laid down
the bundle of bracken she had been handing to Peter Betts, and came quickly to meet her visitor.
Her working dress was splashed with mire from neck to foot, and coils of brown hair had escaped
from her waterproof cap, and hung about her brilliant cheeks. She looked happy, but tired.

"Such a day!" she said, panting, as they met. "The girls and I began at six this morning--lifting
and sorting. It was so important to get them in. Now they're safe if the frost does come. It's
a jolly crop!"

Ellesborough looked at her, and her eyes wavered before the ardour in his.

"I say! You work too hard! Haven't you done enough? Come and rest."

She nodded. "I'll come!"

She ran to say a word to the others and rejoined him.

They went back to the farm, not talking much, but conscious through every nerve of the other's
nearness. Rachel ran upstairs to change her dress, and Ellesborough put the fire together,
and shut the windows. For the sun had sunk behind the hill, and a bitter wind was rising. When
Rachel came down again, the wood-fire glowed and crackled, the curtains drawn, and she stared
in astonishment at a small tea-tray beside the fire.

Ellesborough hurriedly apologized.

"I found some boiling water in the kettle, and I know by now where Miss Janet keeps her tea."

"Janet brought us tea to the field."

"I dare say she did. That was four--this is six. You felt cold just now. You looked cold. Be
good, and take it easy!" He pointed to the only comfortable chair, which he had drawn up to
the fire.

"Are you sure it boiled?" she said sceptically, as she sank into her chair, her eyes dancing.
"No man knows when a kettle boils."

"Try it! For five winters on the Saguenay, I made my own tea--and baked my own bread. Men are
better cooks than women when they give their minds to it!" He brought her the cup, hot and
fragrant, and she sipped it in pure content while he stood smiling above her, leaning against
the mantelpiece.

"I wanted to see you," he said presently. "I've just got my marching orders. Let's see. This
is October. I shall have just a month. They've found another man to take over this job, but
he can't come till November."

"And--peace?" said Rachel, looking up.

For Prince Max of Baden had just made his famous peace offer of October 5th, and even in rural
Brookshire there was a thrilling sense of opening skies, of some loosening of those iron bonds
in which the world had lain for four years.

"There will be no peace!" said Ellesborough with sudden energy, "so long as there is a single
German soldier left in Belgium or France!"

She saw him stiffen from head to foot--and thrilled to the flame of avenging will that suddenly
possessed him. The male looked out upon her, kindling--by the old, old law--the woman in her.

"And if they don't accept that?"

"Then the war will go on," he said briefly, "and I shall be in for the last lap!"

His colour changed a little. She put down her cup and bent over the fire, warming her hands.

"If it does go on, it will be fiercer than ever."

"Very likely. If our fellows set the pace there'll be no dawdling. America's white hot."

"And you'll be in it?"

"I hope so," he said quietly.

There was a pause. Then he, looking down upon her, felt a sudden and passionate joy invade
him--joy which was also longing--longing irresistible. His mind had been wrestling with many
scruples and difficulties during the preceding days. Ought he to speak--on the eve of departure--or
not? Would she accept him? Or was all her manner and attitude towards him merely the result
of the new freedom of women? Gradually but surely his mounting passion had idealized her. Not
only her personal ways and looks had become delightful to him, but the honourable, independent
self in him had come to feel a deep admiration for and sympathy with her honourable independence,
for these new powers in women that made them so strong in spite of their weakness. She had
become to him not only a woman but a heroine. His whole heart approved and admired her when
he saw her so active, so competent, so human. And none the less the man's natural instinct
hungered to take her in his arms, to work for her, to put her back in the shelter of love and
home--ith her children at her knee....

And how domestic was this little scene in which they stood--the firelight, the curtained room,
the tea-things, her soft, bending form, with the signs of labour put away!...

The tears rushed to his eyes. He bent over her, and spoke her name, almost unconsciously.

"Rachel!"

His soul was in the name!

She started, and looked up. While he had been thinking only of her, her thoughts had gone wandering--far
away. And they seemed to have brought back--not the happy yielding of a woman to her lover--but
distress and fear. A shock ran through him.

"Rachel!--" He held out his hands to her. He could not find words, but his eyes spoke, and
the agitation in every feature.

But she drew back.

"Don't--don't say anything--till--"

His look held her--the surprise in it--the tender appeal. She could not take hers from it.
But the disturbance in him deepened. For in the face she raised to him there was no flood of
maidenly joy. Suddenly--her eyes were those of a culprit examining her judge. A cry sprang
to his lips.

"Wait!--wait!" she said piteously.

She fell back in her chair, covering her face, her breast heaving. He saw that she was trying
to command herself, to steady her voice. One of those forebodings which are the children of
our half-conscious observation shot through him. But he would not admit it.

He stooped over her and tried again to take her hand. But she drew it away, and sat up in her
chair. She was very white, and there were tears in her eyes.

"I've got something to say to you," she said, with evident difficulty, "which--I'm afraid--will
surprise you very much. Of course I ought to have told you--long ago. But I'm a coward, and--and--it
was all so horrible. I am not what you suppose me. I'm--a married woman--at least I was. I
divorced my husband--eighteen months ago. I'm quite free now. I thought if you really cared
about me--I should of course have to tell you some time--but I've been letting it go on. It
was very wrong of me--I know it was very wrong!"

And bowing her face on her knees, she burst into a passion of weeping, the weeping of a child
who was yet a woman. The mingled immaturity and intensity of her nature found its expression
in the very abandonment of her tears.

Ellesborough, too, had turned pale. He was astounded by what she said. His thoughts rushed
back over the six weeks of their friendship--recalling his first impressions of something mysterious
and unexplained.

But of late, he had entirely forgotten them. She had talked so frankly and simply of her father
and mother--of her father's missionary work in Canada, and her early journeys with him; and
of her brother in Ontario, his children and his letters. Once she had handed him a letter from
this brother to read, and he had been struck by the refined and affectionate tone of it. Here
were the same family relations as his own. His heart, his taste were satisfied. If Rachel Henderson
accepted him he would be bringing his mother a daughter she would find it easy to love.

And all the time--instead of an unmarried girl, with the experiences of love and marriage before
her--she had been already married--and divorced! Another man had loved and possessed her--and
even if she were innocent--but of course she was innocent!--there must be some ugly story involved.

He tried to collect his thoughts--but all his consciousness seemed to be bruised and in pain.
He could only put his hand on her hair, and say incoherent things,--

"Don't cry so, dear--don't cry!"

And even as he spoke he felt with bewilderment how--in a moment--their respective attitudes
had changed. She checked her sobs.

"Sit there!" she said, pointing peremptorily to a seat opposite. Then she looked round her.

"Where is Janet?"

"She went to the village."

Rachel dried her eyes, and with trembling hands smoothed her hair back from her face.

"I'll try and tell it shortly. It's a horrible tale."

"Do you feel able to tell it?"

For he was aghast at her pallor--the alteration in her whole aspect.

"I must," she wailed. "Weren't you--weren't you just going to ask me to marry you?"

Strange question!--strange frowning eyes!

"I was," he said gravely. "Didn't you know I should?"

"No, no, I didn't know!" she said piteously. "I was never sure--till you looked at me then.
I wouldn't be sure!"

He said nothing. Speech was ice-bound till he had heard what she had to say.

"It all began to happen three years ago," she said hurriedly, hiding her face from him with
her hand while she hung over the fire. "I was living with my brother, who was then near Winnipeg.
He offered me a home after my father died. But he was married, and I didn't get on with his
wife. I dare say it was my fault, but I wasn't happy, and I wanted to get away. Then a man--an
Englishman--bought the next section to us, and we began to know him. He was a gentleman--he'd
been to Cambridge--his father had some land and a house in Lincolnshire. But he was the third
son, and he'd been taught land agency, he said, as a training for the colonies. That was all
we knew. He was very good-looking, and he began courting me. I suppose I was proud of his being
a University man--a public school boy, and all that. He told me a lot of stories about his
people, and his money--most of which were lies. But I was a fool--and I believed them. My brother
tried to stop it. Well, you know from his letters what sort of man he is," and again she brushed
the sudden tears away. "But his wife made mischief, and I was set on having a place of my own.
So I stuck to it--and married him."

She rose abruptly from her seat and began to move restlessly about the room, taking up a book
or her knitting from the table, and putting them down again, evidently unconscious of what
she was doing. Ellesborough waited. His lean, sharply-cut face revealed a miserable, perhaps
an agonized suspense. This crisis into which she had plunged him so suddenly was bringing home
to him all that he had at stake. That she mattered to him so vitally he had never known till
this moment.

"What's the good of going into it!" she said at last desperately. "You can guess--what it means"--a
sudden crimson rushed to her cheeks--"to be tied to a man--without honour--or principle--or
refinement--who presently seemed to me vile all through--in what he said--or what he did. And
I was at his mercy. I had married him in such a hurry he had a right to despise me, and he
used it! And when I resisted and turned against him, then I found out what his temper meant."
She raised her shoulders with a gesture which needed no words. "Well--we got on somehow till
my little girl was born--"

Ellesborough started. Rachel turned on him her sad, swimming eyes. But the mere mention of
her child had given her back her dignity and strength to go on. She became visibly more composed,
as she stood opposite to him, her beautiful dark head against the sunset clouds outside.

"She only lived a few weeks. Her death was largely owing to him. But that's a long story. And
after her death I couldn't stand it any more. I ran away. And soon I heard that he had taken
up with an Italian girl. There was a large camp of Italians on the C.P.R., quite close to us.
She was the daughter of one of the foremen. So then my brother made me go to his lawyers in
Winnipeg. We collected evidence very easily. I got my divorce eighteen months ago. The decree
was made absolute last February. So, of course, I'm quite free--quite--quite free!"

She spoke the last words almost savagely, and after them she moved away to the window looking
on the down, and stood gazing through it, as though she had forgotten Ellesborough's presence.

"The action was not defended?" he asked, in a low voice.

She shook her head without speaking. But after a minute she added,--

"I can show you the report."

There was silence. Ellesborough turned round, put his hands on the mantelpiece, and buried
his face on them. Presently she approached him, looked at him with a quivering lip, and said
in broken sentences,--

"It has all come so suddenly--hasn't it? I had been in such good spirits to-day, not thinking
of those horrible things at all. I don't know what I meant to do, if you did ask me--for of
course I knew you might. I suppose I intended to put off telling you--so as to be sure first--certain--that
you loved me. And then--somehow--when you looked down on me like that, I felt--that I cared--much
more than I had thought I cared--too much to let you speak--before you knew--before I'd told
you. It's always been my way--to--put off disagreeable things. And so I thought I could put
this off. But every night I have been awake thinking--'if only he knew!'--and I was wretched--for
a while--because you didn't know. But then it went away again--and I forgot it. One does forget
things--everything--when one is hard at work. But I'm awfully sorry. And now--I think--we'd
better say good-bye."

Her voice faltered against her will. He raised himself quickly.

"No--no," he said passionately, "we won't say good-bye. But you must let me think--for you,
as well as for myself."

"It would be better to say good-bye," she persisted. "I'm afraid--you expect in me--what I
haven't got. I see that now. Because I'm keen about this work, and I can run this farm, you
think--perhaps--I'm a strong character. But I'm not. I've no judgment--not in moral things.
I give in--I'm weak--and then--I could kill myself!"

She had grown very white again--and her eyes were strangely fixed on him. The words seemed
to him incoherent, out of touch somehow even with their tragic conversation. But his first
passing bewilderment was lost in pity and passion. He stopped, took her hand, and kissed it.
He came nearer.

But again she drew back.

"There's Janet!" she said, "we can't talk any more."

For she had caught sight of Janet in the farm-yard, leading her bicycle.

"Can you meet me to-morrow evening--on the Common?" he said. "I could be there about six."

She frowned a little.

"Is it worth while?"

"I beg you!" he said huskily.

"Very well--I'll come. We shall be just friends, please."

"But, of course, I'll tell you more--if you wish."

Janet's voice and step were heard in the passage. How Ellesborough got through the next ten
minutes he never remembered. When they were over, he found himself rushing through the cool
and silence of the autumn night, thankful for this sheltering nature in which to hide his trouble,
his deep, deep distress.

VII

The October night rang stormily round Great End Farm. The northwest wind rushing over the miniature
pass just beyond the farm, where the road dropped from the level of the upland in which Ipscombe
lay, to the level of the plain, was blowing fiercely on the square of buildings which stood
naked and undefended against weather from that quarter of the heaven, while protected by the
hills and the woods from the northeast. And mingled with the noisy or wailing gusts came the
shrieking from time to time of one of the little brown owls that are now multiplying so fast
in the English midlands.

The noise of the storm and the clamour of the owl were not the cause of Rachel's wakefulness;
but they tended to make it more feverish and irritable. Every now and then she would throw
off the bed-clothes, and sit up with her hands round her knees, a white and rigid figure lit
by the solitary candle beside her. Then again she would feel the chill of the autumn night,
and crouch down shivering among the bed-clothes, pining for a sleep that would not come. Instead
of sleep, she could do nothing but rehearse the scene with Ellesborough again and again. She
watched the alterations in his face--she heard the changes in his voice--as she told her story.
She was now as sorry for him as for herself! The tears came flooding into her eyes as she thought
of him. In her selfish fears of his anger she had forgotten his suffering. But the first true
love of her life was bringing understanding. She realized the shock to him, and wept over it.
She saw, too, that she had been unjust and cowardly in letting the situation go so far without
speaking; and that there was no real excuse for her.

Would he give her up? She had told him that all was at an end between them; but that was only
pride--making a virtue of a necessity. Oh, no, no, he must not give her up! It was only six
weeks since their first meeting, and though it would be untrue to say that since the meeting
he had wholly possessed her thoughts, she had been capable all through them of that sort of
dallying with the vicar which Janet thought unkind. She had been able to find plenty of mind
for her work, and for the ambitions of her new profession, and had spent many a careless hour
steeped in the sheer physical pleasure of the harvest. Yet, from the beginning, his personality
had laid its grip on hers. She had never been able to forget him for long. One visit from him
was no sooner over than she was calculating on and dreaming of the next. And as the consciousness
of some new birth in her had grown, and sudden glimpses had come to her of some supreme joy,
possibly within her grasp, so fear had grown, and anxiety. She looked back upon her past, and
knew it stained--knew that it must at some point rise as an obstacle between her and him.

But how great an obstacle? She was going to tell him, faithfully, frankly, all the story of
her marriage--accuse her own rash self-will in marrying Delane, confess her own failings as
a wife; she would tell no hypocritical tale. She would make it plain that Roger had found in
her no mere suffering saint, and that probably her intolerance and impatience had contributed
to send him to damnation. But, after all, when it was told, what could Ellesborough do but
pity her?--take her in his arms--and comfort her--for those awful years--and her lost child?

The tears rained down her cheeks. He loved her! She was certain of that. When he had once heard
the story, he could not forsake her! She already saw the pity in his deep grey eyes; she already
felt his honest, protecting arms about her.

Ah--but then? Beyond that imagined scene, which rose, as though it were staged, before her,
Rachel's shrinking eyes, in the windy darkness, seemed to be penetrating to another--a phantom
scene in a dim distance--drawn not from the future, but the past. Two figures moved in it.
One was herself. The other was not Roger Delane.

The brown owl seemed to be shrieking just outside her window. Her nerves quivered under the
sound as though it were her own voice. Why was life so cruel, so miserable? Why cannot even
the gods themselves make undone what is done? She was none the worse--permanently--for what
had happened in that distant scene--that play within a play? How was she the worse? She was
"not a bad woman!"--as she had said so passionately to Janet, when they joined hands. There
was no lasting taint left in mind and soul--nothing to prevent her being a pure and faithful
wife to George Ellesborough, and a good mother to his children. It was another Rachel to whom
all that had happened, a Rachel she had a right to forget! She was weak in will--she had confessed
it. But George Ellesborough was strong. Leaning on him, and on kind Janet, she could be all,
she would be all, that he still dreamed. The past--that past--was dead. It had no existence.
Nothing--neither honour nor love--obliged her to disclose it. Except in her own mind it was
dead and buried--as though it had never been. No human being shared her knowledge of it, or
ever would.

And yet the Accuser came closer and closer, wrestling with her shrinking heart. "You can't
live a lie beside him all your life!" "It won't be a lie. All that matters to him is what I
am now--not what I was. And it wasn't I!--it was another woman--a miserable, battered creature
who couldn't help herself." "It will rise up between you, and perhaps--after all--in some way--he
will discover it." "How can he? Dick and I--who in all the world knew, but us two?--and Dick
is dead." "Are you sure that no one knew:--that no one saw you? Think!"

A pale face grew paler in the dim light, as thought hesitated:--

"There was that wagon--and the boy--in the storm." "Yes--what then?" "Well--what then? The
boy scarcely saw me." "He did see you." "And if he did--it is the commonest thing in a Canadian
winter to be caught by a storm, to ask shelter from a neighbour." "Still--even if he drew no
malicious conclusion, he saw you--alone in that farm with Dick Tanner, and he probably knew
your name." "How should he know my name?" "He had seen you before--you had seen him before."
"I didn't know his name--I don't know it now." "No--but in passing your farm once, he had dropped
a parcel for a neighbour--and you had seen him once--at a railway station." "Is it the least
likely that I shall ever see him again--or that he remembers seeing me at Dick Tanner's door?"
"Not likely, perhaps--but possible--quite possible."

And while this question and answer passed through the brain, the woman sitting up in bed seemed
to be transported to a howling wintry scene of whirling snow--a November twilight--and against
that background, the hood of a covered wagon, a boy holding the reins, the heavy cape on his
shoulders white with snow, the lamps of the wagon shining dimly on him, and making a kind of
luminous mist round the cart. She heard a parley, saw a tall and slender man with fair hair
go out to the boy with hot milk and bread, caught directions as to the road, and saw herself
as a half-hidden figure in the partially open door.

And then afterwards--the warm farm kitchen shutting out the storm--a man at her knees--his
arms round her--his kisses on her cheek.

And again the irrevocableness of it closed down upon her. It could never be undone: that was
the terrible commonplace which held her in its grasp. It could never be wiped out from one
human mind, which must bear the burden of it as best it could, till gradually--steadily--the
life, had been killed out of the ugly, haunting thing, and it had been buried--drowned, out
of sight and memory.

But the piteous dialogue began again.

"How could I have resisted? I was so miserable--so lonely--so weak!" "You didn't love him!"
"No--but I was alone in the world." "Well, then, tell George Ellesborough--he is a reasonable
man--he would understand." "I can't--I can't! I have deceived him up till now by passing as
unmarried. If I confess this, too, there will be no chance for me. He'll never trust me in
anything!--he'll suspect everything I do or say--even if he goes on loving me. And I couldn't
bear it!--nor could he."

And so at last the inward debate wore itself out, and sleep, sudden and deep, came down upon
Rachel Henderson. When she woke in the morning it was to cleared skies both in her own mind
and in the physical world. The nightmare through which she had passed seemed to her now unreal,
even a little absurd. Her nerves were quieted by sleep, and she saw plainly what she had to
do. That "old, unhappy, far-off thing" lurking in the innermost depth of memory had nothing
more to do with her. She would look it calmly in the face, and put it finally--for ever--away.
But of her marriage she would tell everything--everything!--to George Ellesborough, and he
should deal with her as he pleased.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day was misty and still. October, the marvellous October of this year, was marching on.
Every day, Foch on the battlefield of France and Belgium was bringing down the old Europe,
and clearing the ground for the new. In English villages and English farms, no less than in
the big towns, there was ferment and excitement, though it showed but little. Would the boys
be home by Christmas--the sons, the brothers, the husbands? What would the change be like--the
life after the war? If there were those who yearned and prayed for it--there were those who
feared it. The war had done well for some, and hideously for others. And all through the play
of individual interests and desires, and even in the dullest minds there ran the intoxicating
sense of Victory, of an England greater and more powerful than even her own sons and daughters
had dared to dream--an England which knew herself now, by the stern test of the four years'
struggle, to be possessed of powers and resources, spiritual, mental, physical, which amazed
herself. In all conscious minds, brooding on the approaching time, there rose the question:
"What are we going to do with it?" and even in the unconscious, the same thought was present,
as a vague disturbing impulse.

Janet had just read the war telegrams to Rachel, who had come down late, complaining of a headache;
but when Janet--the reserved and equable Janet--after going through the news of the recapture
of Ostend, Zeebrugge, and Bruges, broke into the passionate, low-spoken comment: "The Lord
is King--be the people never so unquiet!" or could not, for tears, finish the account of the
entry into recaptured Lille, and the joy of its inhabitants, Rachel sat irresponsive--or apparently
so.

How would it affect Ellesborough--this astounding news? Would it take him from her the sooner,
or delay his going? That was all she seemed capable of feeling.

Janet was troubled by her look and attitude, and being well aware that the two had had a long
tête-à-tête the day before, wondered how things were going. But she said nothing; and after
breakfast Rachel joined the two girls in the potato-field, and worked as hard as they, hour
after hour. But her usual gaiety was gone, and the girls noticed at once the dark rims under
her eyes. They wondered secretly what Miss Henderson's "friend" had been doing. For that the
"Cap'n" was courting their employer had long been plain to them. Betty, of course, had a "friend,"
the young soldier whose sick leave was nearly up, and the child's deep velvety eyes were looking
nearly as tired as Miss Henderson's. While Jenny, too, the timid, undeveloped Jenny had lately
begun to take an interest in a "friend," a young fellow belonging to Ellesborough's forestry
camp whom she had met in Millsborough the day of the Harvest Festival. They had hardly exchanged
half an hour's real conversation. But he had bought her some sweets at Millsborough, and walked
a bit of the way home with her. Then she had seen him in the village once or twice. He had
some relations there--there was some talk of him, and that old murder at the farm--she didn't
know rightly what it was. But she felt somehow that Miss Henderson wouldn't want to have him
about--Miss Henderson didn't like talk of the murder--so Jenny had never asked him to look
her up. But her raw, childish mind was full of him, and the ferments of sex were stirring.
In the secret opinion of both girls, "friends" were quite as much pain as pleasure. No girl
could do without them; but they were pretty certain to cause heart-aches, to make a girl wish
at some time or other that she had never been born. A London factory-girl would have expressed
it in the Cockney way: "Blokes are no good--but you must have a bloke!"

The two girls then concluded that Captain Ellesborough had been causing trouble, as all men
did, at some point; and being sympathetic little souls, they worked especially hard in the
potato-field, and would not allow Rachel to carry the heavier baskets to the "clamp."

Meanwhile Janet had been wrestling with old Halsey, till he had very reluctantly yielded to
her persuasion, and returned to work.

"I'm not the man I wor," he confided to Peter Betts, as they were eating their dinner under
a hedge in the damp October sunshine. "When I wor a young man, I wouldn't ha' minded them things,
not if it was iver so. But now they do give me the shivers in my inside."

"What do?" said Peter Betts, with a mouthful of cold bacon. He was still greatly in the dark
as to why Halsey had left work so early in the afternoon the day before, and why he was now
in such a gruff and gloomy mood. There was indeed a rumour in the village that old Halsey had
seen "summat," but as Halsey had gone to bed immediately after Miss Leighton had had her say
with him, and had refused to be "interviewed" even by his wife, there was a good deal of uncertainty
even in the mind of his oldest pal, Peter Betts.

"Why--ghostisses!" said Halsey, with a frown, removing his pipe for a moment to give emphasis
to the word. "I don't see as a man can be expected to deal with ghostisses. Anythin' else yer
like in a small way--mad dogs, or bulls, or snakes, where they keep 'em, which, thank the Lord,
they don't in these parts--but not them."

"What did yer see?" said Betts, after a few ruminating pulls.

"Well, I saw old Watson, the keeper, as was murdered sixty years since, 'at's what I saw,"
said Halsey with slow decisiveness.

"An' what might be like?" asked Betts, with equal deliberation. The day was mild and sunny;
the half-ploughed field on which they had been working lay alternatively yellow in the stubbles
and a rich brown purple in the new turned furrows under the autumn noon. A sense of well-being
had been diffused in the two old men by food and rest. Halsey's tongue grew looser.

"Well, I saw a man come creepin' an' crouchin' down yon grass road"--(it was visible from where
they sat, as a green streak on the side of the hill)--"same as several people afore me 'as
seen 'um--same as they allus say old Watson must ha' come after Dempsey shot 'im. He wor shot
in the body. The doctors as come to look at 'im fust foun' that out. An' if ye're shot in the
body, I understan', yo naterally double up a bit if yo try to walk. Well--that's jes' how I
saw 'im--crouchin' along. Yo remember it wor a dull evenin' yesterday--an' it wor gettin' dark,
though it worn't dark. It wor not much after fower, by my old watch--but I couldn't see 'im
at all plain. I wor in Top-End field--you know?--as leads up to that road. An' I watched 'im
come along making for that outside cart-shed--that 'un that's back to back wi' the shippen,
where they foun' Watson lyin'. An' I wor much puzzled by the look on 'im. I didn't think nothink
about old Watson, fust of all--I didn't know what to think. I was right under the hedge wi'
the horses; 'ee couldna' ha' seen me--an' I watched 'im. He stopped, onst or twice, as though
he wor restin' hisself--pullin' 'isself together--and onst I 'eered 'im cough--"

Halsey looked round suddenly on his companion as though daring him to mock.

Betts, however, could not help himself. He gave an interrupting and sceptical chuckle.

"Ghostisses don't cough, as ever I 'eered on."

"And why shouldn't they?" said Halsey testily. "If they can do them other things they'd used
to do when livin'--walkin' an' seein' an' such-like--why not coughin'?"

Betts shook his head.

"Never 'eered on it," he said, with conviction.

"Well, anyways I seed him come down to that shed, an' then I lost 'im. But I 'ad the creeps
somehow and I called to Jenny to come an' take the 'orses. An' then I went after 'im. But there
was all the field an' the lane to cross, and when I come to the shed, there wasn't no one and
nothink to be seen--excep'--"

The old man paused, and again looked doubtfully at his companion.

"Well?" said Betts eagerly, his philosophic attitude giving way a little.

"Excep'--a large patch o' blood--fresh blood--I touched it--on one of them ole sacks lyin'
near the cart," said Halsey slowly. "An' it worn't there in the afternoon, for I moved the
sacks mysel'."

Betts whistled softly. Halsey resumed,--

"There was nothin' moved--or taken away--nothin' at all!--only that patch. So then I went all
round the farm, and there was nobody. I thought 'ee might ha' turned back by the grass road,
p'raps, without my seein' 'im, so I went that way, and there was nothin'--until--a little way
up the road--there was blood again"--the old man's voice dropped--"every couple o' yards or
so--a drop or two here--an' a drop or two there--just as they tracked old Watson by it, up
the hill, and into yon wood--where Dempsey set on him."

The two old men looked at each other. Betts was evidently impressed.

"Are you sure it was blood?"

"Sure. Last night, Hastings said it was sheep-dip! After I tole 'im, when 'ee went to look
under the shed, it wor so dark 'ee couldn't see nothin'. Well, 'ee knew better this mornin'.
'Ee fetched me, an' asst me if I'd said anythin' to Miss Janet. And I said, no. So then he
tole me I wasn't to say nothin' to the ladies, nor the girls, nor anybody. An' 'ee'd done summat
wi' the sack--I dunno what. But 'ee might ha' held 'is tongue last night about sheep-dip! Who's
been dippin' sheep about here? 'As Miss Henderson got any ruddle anywhere about the farm? I
know she ain't!--an' Muster Hastings knows she ain't."

"Why didn't yer tell Miss Janet?--about the bleedin'?"

"Well, I was a bit skeered. I thought I'd sleep on't, before I got talkin' any more. But on
the way 'ome, as I tellt yer, I met Hastings, an' tole 'im, an' then give 'im notice."

"That wor a bit hasty, worn't it?" said Betts after a moment, in a judicial tone. But he had
been clearly much exercised by his companion's account, and his pipe hanging idly from his
hands showed that his thoughts were active.

"Well, it might ha' bin," Halsey admitted, "but as I said afore, I'm gettin' an old man, and
I don't want no truck wi' things as I don't unnerstan'. It give me the wust night as I've had
since I had that bad turn wi' the influenza ten year ago."

"You didn't see his face?"

"No."

"An' 'ee didn't mind you of anybody?"

Halsey hesitated.

"Well, onst I did think I'd seen one o' the same build--soomwhere. But I can't recolleck where."

"As for the blood," said Betts reflectively, "it's as curous as the coughin'. Did you iver
hear tell as ghosts could bleed?"

Hastings shook his head. Steeped in meditation, the two men smoked silently for a while. Then
Betts said, with the explosiveness of one who catches an idea,--

"Have yer thought o' tellin' John Dempsey?"

"I hain't thought o' tellin' nobody. An' I shouldn't ha' told Miss Leighton what I did tell
her, if she 'adn't come naggin' about my givin' notice."

"You might as well tell John Dempsey. Why, it's his business, is old Watson! Haven't yer seen
'im at all?"

Halsey said "No," holding his handsome old head rather high. Had he belonged to a higher station
in life, his natural reticence, and a fastidious personal dignity would have carried him far.
To a modern statesman they are at least as valuable as brains. In the small world of Ipscombe
they only meant that Halsey himself held rather scornfully aloof from the current village gossip,
and got mocked at for his pains. The ordinary human instinct revenged itself, however, when
he was tête-à-tête with his old chum Peter Betts. Betts divined at any rate from the expression
in the old man's eyes that he might talk, and welcome.

So he poured out what he knew about John Dempsey, a Canadian lad working in the Forestry Corps
at Ralstone, who turned out to be the grandson of the Dempsey who had always been suspected
of the murder of Richard Watson in the year 1859. This young Dempsey, he said, had meant to
come to Ipscombe after the war, and put what he knew before the police. But finding himself
sent to Ralstone, which was only five miles from Ipscombe, he saw no reason to wait, and he
had already given all the information he could to the superintendent of police at Millsborough.
His grandfather had signed a written confession before his death, and John Dempsey had handed
it over. The old man, it appeared, had "turned pious" during a long illness before his death,
and had wished to square matters with his conscience and the Almighty. When his grandson had
volunteered for the war, and was about to sail for Europe, old Dempsey had sent for him, had
told him the story, and charged him, when he was able, to place his confession in the proper
hands. And having done that, he died "very quiet and comfortable"--so John Dempsey reported.

"Which is more than poor Jem Watson did," growled Halsey. He felt neither respect nor sympathy
for a man who, having set up a secret, couldn't keep it; and the confession itself, rather
than the crime confessed, confirmed the poor opinion he had always held of the elder Dempsey
when they were young men in the village together. But he agreed to let Betts bring "young John"
to see him. And thereupon they went back to the sowing of one of Miss Henderson's big fields
with winter wheat.

When the milking was done, and work was nearly over for the day, a note brought by messenger
arrived at the farm for Miss Henderson. It was from Ellesborough--a few scribbled words. "I
am prevented from coming this evening. The Chief Forestry Officer of my district has just arrived,
and stays the night. I hope to come over to-morrow between six and seven. Shall I find you?"

Rachel scribbled an answer, which a small boy on a bicycle carried off. Then she went slowly
back to the sitting-room, so disappointed and unnerved that she was on the brink of tears.
Janet who had just come in from milking, was standing by the table, mending a rent in her waterproof.
She looked up as Rachel entered, and the needle paused in her hand.

"I say, Rachel!--you do look overdone! You've been going at it too hard."

For all day long Rachel had been lifting, and sorting, and carrying, in the potato-field, finding
in the severe physical exertion the only relief from restlessness. She shook her head irritably
and came to stand by the wood fire which Janet had just lit, a welcome brightness in the twilight
room.

"Suppose you knock up--" began Janet in a tone of remonstrance. Rachel cut her short.

"I want to speak to you--please, Janet."

Janet looked round in astonishment and put down her work. Rachel was standing by the fire,
with her hands behind her back, her eyes fixed on Janet. She was still in the graceful tunic
and knee-breeches, in which her young and splendid youth seemed always most at home. But she
had taken off her cap, and her brown hair was falling round a pale face.

"Janet--you know Captain Ellesborough and I had a long talk last night?"

Janet smiled.

"Of course I do. And of course I have my own thoughts about it!"

"I don't know what they are," said Rachel slowly. "But--I'd better tell you--Captain Ellesborough
asked me to marry him."

She paused.

"Did you think that would be news to any of us?" said Janet, laughing, and then stopped. The
sudden contraction of pain in Rachel's face, and something like a sob startled her.

"Don't, Janet, please. I told him something--which made him wonder--whether he did want to
marry me after all."

Janet's heart gave an uncomfortable jump. A score of past conjectures and misgivings rushed
back upon her.

"What did you tell him?"

"What I see now I ought to have told you--as well as him--long ago. Henderson is my maiden
name. I was a married woman for three years. I had a child which died. I divorced my husband,
and he's still alive."

The colour had flamed back into her cheeks. Janet sat silent, her eyes fixed on Rachel's.

"I did tell you I had a story, didn't I?" said Rachel insistently.

"You did. I took my chance. It was you who--who brought the action?"

"I brought the action. There was no defence. And the judge said--I'd been awfully badly treated--it
was no wonder I wanted--to get free. Well, there it is. I'm sorry I deceived you. I'm sorry
I deceived him."

"You didn't deceive me," said Janet. "I had practically guessed it." She rose slowly, and going
up to Rachel, she put her hands on her shoulders,--

"Why didn't you tell me, you poor thing!" Her voice and eyes were full of emotion--full of
pity. But Rachel shrank away a little from her touch, murmuring under her breath, "Because
I wanted never to hear of it--or think of it again." Then, after a pause, she added, "But if
you want to know more, I'll tell you. It's your right. My married name was Delane."

"Don't tell me any more!" said Janet peremptorily. "I don't want to hear it. But you ought
to be--quite frank--with him."

"I know that. Naturally--it was a great shock to him."

There was something very touching in her attitude. She stood there like a shamefaced boy, in
her quasi-male dress; and the contrast between her strong young beauty, and the humility and
depression of her manner appealed with singular force to Janet's mind, so constantly and secretly
preoccupied with spiritual things. Rachel seemed to her so much cleverer and more vigorous
than herself in all matters of ordinary life. Only in the region of religious experience did
Janet know herself the superior. But Rachel had never made any outward sign that she cared
in the least to know more of that region, whether in Janet or other people. She had held entirely
aloof from it. But self-reproach--moral suffering--are two of the keys that lead to it. And
both were evident here. Janet's heart went out to her friend.

"When is he coming?"

"To-morrow evening. I dare say he'll give me up."

Janet marvelled at the absence of self-assertion--the touch of despair--in words and tone.
So it had gone as deep as this! She blamed herself for lack of perception. An ordinary love-affair,
about to end in an ordinary way--that was how it had appeared to her. And suddenly it seemed
to her she had stumbled upon what might be tragedy.

No, no--there should be no tragedy! She put her arms round Rachel.

"My dear, he won't give you up! As if I hadn't seen! He worships the ground you tread upon!"

Rachel said nothing. She let her face rest on Janet's shoulder. When she raised it, it was
wet. But she kissed Janet quietly, and went away without another word.

VIII

Four grown-ups and a child were gathered in the living-room of Halsey's cottage. The cottage
was old like its tenant and had all the inconveniences of age; but it was more spacious than
the modern cottage often is, since it and its neighbours represented a surviving fragment from
an old Jacobean house--a house of gentlefolks--which had once stood on the site. Most of the
house had been pulled down, but Colonel Shepherd's grandfather had retained part of it, and
turned it into two cottages--known as 1 and 2 Ipscombe Place--which for all their drawbacks
were much in demand in the village, and conferred a certain distinction on their occupants.
Mrs. Halsey's living room possessed a Tudor mantelpiece in moulded brick, into which a small
modern kitchener had been barbarously fitted; and three fine beams with a little incised ornament
ran across the ceiling.

Mrs. Halsey had not long cleared away the tea, and brought in a paraffin lamp, small but cheerful.
She was a middle-aged woman, much younger than her husband--with an ironic half-dreamy eye,
and a native intelligence much superior to her surroundings. She was suffering from a chronic
abscess in the neck, which had strange periodic swellings and subsidences, all of which were
endlessly interesting to its possessor. Mrs. Halsey, indeed, called the abscess "she," wrapped
it lovingly in red flannel, describing the evening dressing of it as "putting her to bed,"
and talked of "her" qualities and oddities as though, in the phrase of her next-door neighbour,
"it'd a been a christened child." She had decided views on politics, and was a match for any
political agent who might approach her with an eye to her vote, a commodity which she kept,
so to speak, like a new shilling in her pocket, turning it from time to time to make sure it
was there.

But independent as she was, she rarely interfered with the talk of Halsey and his male friends.
And on this occasion when the three men--Halsey, Peter Betts, and young Dempsey--had gathered
smoking round the fire, she settled herself with her knitting by the table and the lamp, throwing
in every now and then a muttered and generally sarcastic comment, of which her husband took
no notice--especially as he knew very well that the sarcasms were never aimed at him, and that
she was as proud of him as she was generally contemptuous of the rest of the world.

Halsey had just finished a rather grudging description of his experiences two days before for
John Dempsey's benefit. He was conscious that each time he repeated them, they sounded more
incredible. He didn't want to repeat them; he didn't mean to repeat them; after this, nobody
should get any more out of him at all.

Young Dempsey's attitude was certainly not encouraging. Attentive at first, he allowed himself,
as Halsey's talk developed, a mild, progressive grin, which spread gradually over his ugly
but honest face, and remained there. In face of it, Halsey's speech became more and more laconic,
till at last he shut his mouth with a snap, and drawing himself up in his chair, re-lit his
pipe with the expression that meant, "All right--I've done--you may take it or leave it."

"Well, I don't see that what you saw, Mr. Halsey, was so very uncommon!" Dempsey began, still
smiling, in spite of a warning look from Betts. "You saw a man come down that road? Well, in
the first place, why shouldn't a man come down that road--it's a reg'lar right of way--"

"It's the way, mind ye, as the ghost of old Watson has allus come!" put in Peter Betts, chivalrously
anxious to support his friend Halsey, as far as he could, against a sceptical stranger. "An'
it's been seen twice on that road already, as I can remember: once when I was a little boy,
by old Dan Holt, the postmaster, and once about ten years ago."

Dempsey looked at the speaker indulgently. To his sharpened transatlantic sense, these old
men, in this funny old village, seemed to him a curiously dim and feeble folk. He could hardly
prevent himself from talking to them as though they were children. He supposed his grandfather
would have been like that if he'd stayed on at Ipscombe. He thanked the stars he hadn't!

But since he had been summoned to consult, as a person who had a vested interest, of a rather
blood-curdling sort, in the Great End ghost, he had to give his opinion; and he gave it, while
Halsey listened and smoked in a rather sulky silence. For it was soon evident that the murderer's
grandson had no use at all for the supposed ghost-story. He tore it ruthlessly to pieces. In
the first place, Halsey described the man seen on the grass-road as tall and lanky. But according
to his grandfather's account, the murdered gamekeeper, on the contrary, was a broadly-built,
stumpy man. In the next place--the coughing and the bleeding!--he laughed so long and loudly
at these points in the story that Halsey's still black bushy eyebrows met frowningly over a
pair of angry eyes, and Betts tried hurriedly to tame the young man's mirth.

"Well, if yer don't think that man as Halsey saw was the ghost, what do you s'pose 'ee was
doin' there?" asked Betts, "and where did he go? Halsey went right round the farm. The hill
just there is as bare as my hand. He must ha' seen the man--if it wor a man--an' he saw nothin'.
There isn't a tree or a bush where that man could ha' hid hisself--if he wor a man."

Dempsey declared he should have to go and examine the ground himself before he could answer
the question. But of course there was an answer to it--there must be. As to the man--why Millsborough,
and Ipscombe too, had been full of outlandish East Enders, flying from the raids, Poles and
Russians, and such like--thievin' fellows by all accounts. Why couldn't it be one of them--prowling
round the farm for anything he could pick up--and frightened off, when he saw Halsey?

Betts, smoking with prodigious energy, inquired what he made of the blood. Didn't he know the
old story of how Watson was tracked down to the cart-shed? Dempsey laughed again.

"Well, it's curious, grant ye. It's real funny! But where are you going to get blood without
a body? And if a thing's a body, it isn't a ghost!"

The two old men were silent. Halsey was lost in a hopeless confusion of ideas, and Betts was
determined not to give his pal away.

But here--say what you like!--was a strange man, seen, on the road, which had been used, according
to village tradition, on several previous occasions, by the authentic ghost of Watson; his
course was marked by traces of blood, just as Watson's path of pain had been marked on the
night of the murder; and on reaching the spot where Watson had breathed his last, the apparition,
whatever it was, had vanished. Perplexity, superstition, and common sense fought each other.
Halsey who knew much of his Bible by heart was inwardly comparing texts. "A spirit hath not
flesh and blood"--True--but on the other hand what about the "bodies of the saints"--that "arose"?
While, perhaps, the strongest motive of all in the old man's mind was the obstinate desire
to prove himself right, and so to confound young scoffers like Dempsey.

Dempsey, however, having as he thought disposed of Halsey's foolish tale was determined to
tell his own, which had already made a great impression in certain quarters of the village,
and ranked indeed as the chief sensation of the day. To be able to listen to the story of a
murder told by the grandson of the murderer, to whom the criminal himself had confessed it,
and that without any fear of unpleasant consequences to any one, was a treat that Ipscombe
had seldom enjoyed, especially as the village was still rich in kinsfolk of both murdered and
murderer.

Dempsey had already repeated the story so often that it was by now perfect in every detail,
and it produced the same effect in this lamplit kitchen as in other. Halsey, forgetting his
secret ill-humour, was presently listening open-mouthed. Mrs. Halsey laid down her knitting,
and stared at the speaker over the top of her spectacles; while across Betts's gnome-like countenance
smiles went out and in, especially at the more gruesome points of the tale. The light sparkled
on the young Canadian's belt, the Maple Leaf in the khaki hat which lay across his knees, on
the badge of the Forestry Corps on his shoulder. The old English cottage, with its Tudor brick-work,
and its overhanging beams, the old English labourers with the stains of English soil upon them,
made the setting; and in the midst, sat the "new man," from the New World, holding the stage,
just as Ellesborough the New Englander was accustomed to hold it, at Great End Farm. All over
England, all over unravaged France and northern Italy similar scenes at that moment were being
thrown on the magic sheet of life; and at any drop in the talk, the observer could almost hear,
in the stillness, the weaving of the Great Loom on which the Ages come and go.

There was a pause, when Dempsey came to a dramatic end with the last breath of his grandfather;
till Mrs. Halsey said dryly, fixing the young man with her small beady eyes,--

"And you don't mind telling on your own grandfather?"

"Why shouldn't I?" laughed Dempsey, "when it's sixty years ago. They've lost their chance of
hanging him anyhow."

Mrs. Halsey shook her head in inarticulate protest. Betts said reflectively,--

"I wouldn't advise you to be tellin' that tale to Miss Henderson."

Dempsey's expression changed at the name. He bent forward eagerly.

"By the way, who is Miss Henderson? Do you know where she comes from?"

The others stared.

"Last winter," said Betts at last, "she wor on a farm down Devonshire way. And before that
she wor at college--with Miss Janet."

"Was she ever in Canada?"

"Yes!" said Halsey with sudden decision, "she wor--for she told me one day when I wor mendin'
the new reaper and binder, that we in this country didn't know what harvest meant. 'Why, I've
helped to reap a field--in Canada,' she ses, 'fower miles square,' she ses, 'six teams o' horses--an'
six horses to the team,' she ses--'that's somethin' like.' So I know she's been in Canada."

"Ah!" said Dempsey, staring at the carpet. "And she's not married? You're sure she's not married?"

"Married?" said all the others, looking at him in disapproving astonishment.

"Well, if she ain't, I saw her sister--or her double--twice--about two-and-a-half year ago--at
a place thirty miles from Winnipeg. I could ha' sworn I'd seen her before!"

"Well, you can't ha' seen her before," said Betts positively; "cause she's Miss, not Missis."

"Ah!" said Dempsey again in a non-committal voice, looking hard this time into the fire.

"Where have you seen her--in these parts?" asked Mrs. Halsey.

"At the Harvest Festival, t'other day. But I must have been mistaken--that's all. I think I'm
going to call upon her some day."

"Whatever for?"

"Why--to tell her about my grandfather!" said Dempsey, looking round at Mrs. Halsey, with an
air of astonishment that any one should ask him the question.

"You won't be welcome."

"Why not?"

"Because she don't want to hear nothin' about Watson's murder. And whatever's the good on it,
anyhow?" said Mrs. Halsey with sudden emphasis. "You've told us a good tale, I'll grant ye.
But yer might as well be pullin' the old feller 'isself out of his grave, as goin' round killin'
'im every night fresh, as you be doin'. Let 'im be. Skelintons is skelintons."

Dempsey, feeling rather indignantly that his pains had been wasted, and his audience was not
worthy of him, rose to take his departure. Halsey's face cleared. He turned to look at his
wife, and she winked in return. And when the young forester had taken his departure, Mrs. Halsey
stroked the red flannel round her swollen neck complacently.

"I 'ad to pike 'im out soomhow. It's 'igh time she wor put to bed!"

That same evening, Ellesborough left the Ralstone camp behind him about six o'clock, and hurried
through the late October evening towards Great End Farm. During the forty-eight hours which
had elapsed since his interview with Rachel he had passed through much suffering, and agonies
of indecision. He had had to reconstruct all his ideas of the woman he loved. Instead of the
proud and virginal creature he had imagined himself to be wooing, amid the beautiful setting
of her harvest fields, he had to think of her as a woman dimmed and besmirched by an unhappy
marriage with a bad man. For himself, he certainly resented the concealment which had been
practised on him. Yet at the same time he thought he understood the state of exasperation,
of invincible revolt which had led to it. And he kept reminding himself that, after all, her
confession had anticipated his proposal.

Nevertheless such men as he have ideas of marriage, both romantic and austere. They are inclined
to claim what they give--a clean sheet, and the first-fruits of body and soul. In Rachel's
case the first-fruits had been wasted on a marriage, of which the ugly and inevitable incidents
haunted Ellesborough's imagination. One moment he shrank from the thought of them; the next
he could not restrain the protesting rush of passion--the vow that his love should put her
back on that pinnacle of honour and respect from which fate should never have allowed her to fall.

Well, she had promised to tell him her story in full. He awaited it. As to his own people,
they were dear, good women, his mother and sisters--saints, but not Pharisees.

It was a dark and lowering evening, with tempest gusts of wind. But from far away, after he
had passed Ipscombe, a light from one of the windows of the farm shone out, as though beckoning
him to her. Suddenly from the mouth of the farm, he saw a bicycle approaching. The rider was
Janet Leighton. She passed him with a wave and a smile.

"Going to a Food meeting! But Rachel's at home."

What a nice woman! Looking back over the couple of months since he had known the inmates of
the farm, he realized how much he had come to like Janet Leighton. So unselfish, so full of
thought for others, so modest for herself! There couldn't be a better friend for Rachel; her
friendship itself was a testimonial; he reassured himself by the mere thought of her.

When he drew up at the farm, Hastings with a lantern in his hand was just disappearing towards
the hill, and the two girls, Betty and Jenny, passed him, each with a young man, two members,
in fact, of his own Corps, John Dempsey and another. They explained that they were off to a
Red Cross Concert in the village hall. Ellesborough's pulse beat quicker as he parted from
them, for he realized that he would find Rachel alone in the farm.

Yes, there she was at the open door, greeting him with a quiet face--a smile even. She led
the way into the sitting-room, where she had just drawn down the blinds and closed the curtains
of the window looking on the farm-yard. But his arrival had interrupted her before she could
do the same for the window looking on the Down. Neither of them thought of it. Each was absorbed
in the mere presence of the other.

Rachel was in her black Sunday dress of some silky stuff. Her throat was uncovered, and her
shapely arms showed through the thin sleeves. The black and white softened and refined something
overblown and sensuous in her beauty. Her manner, too, had lost its confident, provocative
note. Ellesborough had never seen her so adorable, so desirable. But her self-command dictated
his. He took the seat to which she pointed him; while she herself brought a chair to the other
side of the fire, putting on another log with a steady hand, and a remark about the wind that
was whistling outside. Then, one foot crossed over the other, her cheek reddened by the fire,
propped on her hand, and her eyes on the fresh flame that was beginning to dance out of the
wood, she asked him,--"You'd like to hear it all?"

He made a sign of assent.

So in a quiet, even voice, she began with an account of her family and early surroundings,
more detailed than anything she had yet given him. She described her father (the striking apostolic
head of the old man hung on the wall behind her) and his missionary journeys through the prairie
settlements in the early days of Alberta; how, when he was old and weary, he would sometimes
take her, his latest child, a small girl of ten or twelve, on his pastoral rounds, for company,
perched up beside him in his buggy; and how her mother was killed by the mere hardships of
the prairie life, sinking into fretful invalidism for two years before her death.

"I nursed her for years. I never did anything else--I couldn't. I never had any amusements
like other girls. There was no money and no time. She died when I was twenty-four. And three
months after, my father died. He didn't leave a penny. Then my brother asked me to go and live
with him and his wife. I was to have my board and a dress allowance, if I would help her in
the house. My brother's an awfully good sort--but I couldn't get on with his wife. I just couldn't!
I expect it was my fault, just as much as hers. It was something we couldn't help. Very soon
I hated the sight of her, and she never missed a chance of making me feel a worm--a useless,
greedy creature, living on other people's work. If only there had been some children, I dare
say I could have borne it. But she and I could never get away from each other. There were no
distractions. Our nerves got simply raw--at least mine did."

There was a pause. She lifted her brown eyes, and looked at Ellesborough intently.

"I suppose my mother would have borne it. But girls nowadays can't. Not girls like me, anyway.
Mother was a Christian. I don't suppose I am. I don't know what I am. I just had to live my
own life. I couldn't exist without a bit of pleasure--and being admired--and seeing men--and
all that!"

Her cheeks had flushed. Her eyes were very bright and defiant.

Ellesborough came nearer to her, put out a strong hand and enclosed hers in it.

"Well then--this man Delane--came to live near you?"

He spoke with the utmost gentleness, trying to help her out.

She nodded, drawing her hand away.

"I met him at a dance in Winnipeg first--the day after I'd had a horrid row with my sister-in-law.
He'd just taken a large farm, with a decent house on it--not a shack--and everybody said his
people were rich and were backing him. And he was very good-looking--and a Cambridge man--and
all that. We danced together almost all the evening. Then he found out where I lived, and used
to be always coming to see me. My brother never liked him. He said to me often, 'Why do you
encourage that unprincipled cad? I'm certain there's a screw loose about him!' And I wasn't
in love with Roger--not really--for one moment. But I think he was in love with me--yes, I'm
sure he was--at first. And he excited and interested me. I was proud, too, of taking him away
from other girls, who were always running after him. And my sister-in-law was just mad to get
rid of me! Don't you understand?"

"Of course I do!"

Her eyelids wavered a little under the emotion of his tone.

"Well, then, we got married. My brother tried to get out of him what his money-affairs were.
But he always evaded everything. He talked a great deal about this rich sister, and she did
send him a wedding present. But he never showed me her letter, and that was the last we ever
heard of her while I knew him...."

Her voice dropped. She sat looking at the fire--a grey, pale woman, from whom light and youth
had momentarily gone out.

"Well, it's a hateful story--and as common!--as common as dirt. We began to quarrel almost
immediately. He was jealous and tyrannical, and I always had a quick temper. I found that he
drank, that he told me all sorts of lies about his past life, that he presently only cared
about me as--well, as his mistress!"--and again she faced Ellesborough with hard, insistent
eyes--"that he was hopelessly in debt--a gambler--and everything else. When the baby came,
I could only get the wife of a neighbouring settler to come and look after me. And Roger behaved
so abominably to her that she went home when the baby was a week old--and I was left to manage
for myself. Then when baby was three months old, she caught whooping-cough, and had bronchitis
on the top. I had a few pounds of my own, and I gave them to Roger to go in to Winnipeg and
bring out a doctor and medicines. He drank all the money on the way--that I found out afterwards--he
was a week away instead of two days--and the baby died. When he came back he told me a lie
about having been ill. But I never lived with him--as a wife--after that. Then, of course,
he hated me, and one night he nearly killed me. Next morning he apologized--said that he loved
me passionately--and that kind of stuff--that I was cruel to him--and what could he do to make
up? So then I suggested that he should go away for a month--and we should both think things
over. He was rather frightened, because--well--he'd knocked me about a good deal in the horrible
scene between us--and he thought I should bring my brother down on him. So he agreed to go,
and I said I would have a girl friend to stay with me. But, of course, as soon as he was gone,
I just left the house and departed. I had got evidence enough by then to set me free--about
the Italian girl. I met my brother in Winnipeg. We went to his lawyers together, and I began
proceedings--"

She stopped abruptly. "The rest I told you.--No!--I've told you the horrible things--now I'll
say something of the things which--have made life worth living again. Till the divorce was
settled I went back to my brother in Toronto. I dropped my married name then and called myself
Henderson. And then I came home--because my mother's brother, who was a manufacturer in Bradford,
wrote to ask me. But when I arrived he was dead, and he had left me three thousand pounds.
Then I went to Swanley and got trained for farm-work. And I found Janet Leighton, and we made
friends. And I love farm-work--and I love Janet--and the whole world looks so different to
me! Why, of course, I didn't want to be reminded of that old horrible life! I didn't want people
to say, 'Mrs. Delane? Who and where is her husband? Is he dead?' 'No--she's divorced.' 'Why?'
There's!--don't you see?--all the old vile business over again! So I cut it all!"

She paused--resuming in another voice--hesitating and uncertain,--

"And yet--it seems--you can't do a simple thing like that without--hurting somebody--injuring
somebody. I can't help it! I didn't mean to deceive you. But I had a right to get free from
the old life if I could!"

She threw back her head proudly. Her eyes were full of tears. Then she rose impetuously.

"There!--I've told you. I suppose you don't want to be friends with me any more. It was rotten
of me, I know, for, of course--I saw--you seemed to be getting to care for me. I told Janet
when we set up work together that I wasn't a bad woman. And I'm not. But I'm weak. You'd better
not trust me. And besides--I fell into the mud--and I expect it sticks to me still!"

She spoke with passionate animation--almost fierceness. While through her inner mind there
ran the thought, "I've told him!--I've told him! If he doesn't understand, it's not my fault.
I can always say, 'I did tell you--about Roger--and the rest!--as much as I was bound to tell
you.' Why should I make him miserable--and destroy my own chances with him for nothing?"

They stood fronting each other. Over the fine bronzed face of the forester there ran a ripple
of profound emotion--nostril and lip--and eye. Then she found herself in his arms--with no
power to resist or free herself. Two or three deep, involuntary sobs--sobs of excitement--shook
her, as she felt his kisses on her cheek.

"Darling!--I'll try and make up to you--for all you've suffered. Poor child!--poor little Rachel!"

She clung to him, a great wave of passion sweeping through her also. She thought, "Now I shall
be happy!--and I shall make him happy, too. Of course I shall!--I'm doing quite right."

Presently he put her back in her chair, and sat beside her on the low fender stool, in front
of the fire. His aspect was completely transformed. The triumphant joy which filled him had
swept away the slightly stiff and reserved manner which was on the whole natural to him. And
it had swept away at the same time all the doubts and hesitations of his inner mind. She had
told her story, it seemed to him, with complete frankness, and a humility which appealed to
all that was chivalrous and generous in a strong man. He was ready now to make more excuses
for her, in the matter of his own misleading, than she seemed to wish to make for herself.
How natural that she should act as she had acted! The thought of her suffering, of her ill-treatment
was intolerable to him--and of the brute who had inflicted it.

"Do you know where that man is now?" he said to her presently. She had fallen back in her chair--pale
and shaken, but dressed, for his eyes, in a loveliness, a pathos, that was every moment strengthening
her hold upon him.

"Roger? No, I have no idea. I always suppose he's in Canada still. He never appeared when the
case was tried. But the summons had to be served on him, and my lawyers succeeded in tracking
him to a lodging in Calgary, where he was living--with the Italian girl. But after that we
never heard any more of him--except that I had a little pencil note--unsigned, undated, delivered
by hand--just before the trial came on. It said I should repent casting him off--that I had
treated him shamefully--that I was a vile woman--and though I had got the better of him for
the time, he would have his revenge before long."

Ellesborough shrugged his shoulders contemptuously.

"Threats are cheap! I hope you soon put that out of your mind?"

She made a little restless movement.

"Yes, I--I suppose so. But I did tell you once, didn't I, that--I often had fears--about nothing?"

"Yes, you did tell me," he said, smiling. "Don't have any more fears, darling! I'll see to that."

He took her hands again, and raised them to his lips and kissed them. It astonished him to
feel them so cold, and see her again so excited and pale. Was she really afraid of the villain
she had escaped from? The dear, foolish woman! The man in his self-confident strength loved
her the more for the vague terrors he felt himself so well able to soothe.

For half an hour more they sat together, in that first intimacy of love, which transfigures
men and women, so that when they pass back from it into ordinary life they scarcely recognize
life or themselves again. They talked much less of the past than of the future--and that in
the light of the glorious war news coming in day by day. Austria was on the point of surrender--the
German landslide might come at any moment--then peace!--incredible word. Ellesborough would
hardly now get to France. They might be able to marry soon--within a few weeks. As to the farm,
he asked her, laughing, whether she would take him in as a junior partner for a time, till
they could settle their plans. "I've got a bit of money of my own. But first you must let me
go back, as soon as there are ships to go in--to see after my own humble business. We could
launch out--get some fine stock--try experiments. It's a going concern, and I've got a good
share in it. Why shouldn't you go, too?"

He saw her shrink.

"To Canada? Oh, no!"

He scourged himself mentally for having taken her thoughts back to the old unhappy times. But
she soon recovered herself. Then it was time for him to go, and he stood up.

"I should like to have seen Janet!" he said joyously. "She'll have to get used to Christian
names. How soon will you tell her? Directly she comes in?"

"Certainly not. I shall wait--till to-morrow morning."

He laughed, whispering into her ear, as her soft, curly head lay against his breast.

"You won't wait ten minutes--you couldn't! Well, I must be going, or they'll shut me out of
the camp."

"Why do you hurry so?"

"Hurry? Why, I shall be an hour late, anyway. I shall have to give myself C.B. to-morrow."

She laughed--a sound of pure content. Then she suddenly drew herself away, frowning at him.

"You do love me--you do--you will always!--whatever people may say?"

He was surprised at the note almost of violence in her voice. He answered it by a passionate
caress, which she bore with trembling. Then she resolutely moved away.

"Do go!" she said to him, imploringly. "I'd like to be a few minutes--alone--before they come
back."

He saw her settle herself by the fire, her hands stretched out to the blaze. Seeing that the
fire was low, and remembering the chill of her hands in his, he looked around for the wood-basket
which was generally kept in a corner behind the piano.

His movement was suddenly arrested. He was looking towards the uncurtained window. The night
had grown pitch dark outside, and there were splashes of rain against the glass. But he distinctly
saw as he turned a man's face pressed against the glass--a strained, sallow, face, framed in
straggling black hair, a face with regular features, and eyes deeply set in blackened orbits.
It was a face of hatred; the lips tightly drawn over the teeth, seemed to have a curse on them.

The vision lasted only a moment. Ellesborough's trained instinct, the wary instinct of the
man who had parsed days and nights with nature in her wilder and lonelier places, checked the
exclamation on his lips. And before he could move again, the face had disappeared. The old
holly bush growing against the farm wall, from which the apparition seemed to have sprung,
was still there, some of its glossy leaves visible in the bright light of the paraffin lamp
which stood on the table near the window. And there was nothing else.

Ellesborough quietly walked to the window, drew down the blind, and pulled the curtains together.
Rachel looked around at the sound.

"Didn't I do that?" she said, half dreamily.

"We forgot!" He smiled at her. "Now it's all cosy. Ah, there they are! Perhaps I'll get Janet
to come as far as the road with me." For voices were approaching--Janet talking to the girls.
Rachel looked up, assenting. The colour had rushed back to her face. Ellesborough took in the
picture of her, sitting unconscious by the fire, while his own pulse was thumping under the
excitement of what he had seen.

With a last word to her, he closed the sitting-room door behind him, and went out to meet Janet
Leighton in the dark.

IX

It was a foggy October evening, and Berkeley Square, from which the daylight had not yet departed,
made a peculiarly dismal impression on the passers-by, under the mingled illumination of its
half-blinded lamps, and of a sunset which in the country was clear and golden, and here in
west London could only give a lurid coppery tinge to the fog, to the eastern house-fronts,
and to the great plane-trees holding the Square garden, like giants encamped. Landsowne House,
in its lordly seclusion from the rest of the Square, seemed specially to have gathered the
fog to itself, and was almost lost from sight. Not a ray of light escaped the closely-shuttered
windows. The events of the mensis mirabilis were rushing on. Bulgaria, Austria, Turkey, had
laid down their arms--the German cry for an armistice had rung through Europe. But still London
lay dark and muffled. Her peril was not yet over.

In the drawing-room of one of the houses on the eastern side, belonging to a Warwickshire baronet
and M.P.--Sir Richard Winton by name--a lady was standing in front of a thrifty fire, which
in view of the coal restrictions of the moment, she had been very unwilling to light at all.
The restrictions irritated her; so did the inevitable cold of the room; and most of all was
she annoyed and harassed by the thought of a visitor who might appear at any moment. She was
tall, well-made, and plain. One might have guessed her age at about thirty-five. She had been
out in the earlier afternoon, attending a war meeting on behalf of some charities in which
she was interested, and she had not yet removed a high and stately hat with two outstanding
wings and much jet ornament, which she had worn at the meeting, to the huge indignation of
her neighbours. The black of her silk dress was lightened by a rope of pearls, and various
diamond trinkets. Her dress fitted her to perfection. Competence and will were written in her
small, shrewd eyes and in the play of a decided mouth.

There was a knock at the door. At Lady Winton's "Come in!" a stout, elderly maid appeared.
She came up to her mistress, and said in a lowered voice,--

"You'll see Mr. Roger here?"

"Why, I told you so, Nannie!" was the impatient answer. "Is everybody out of the way?"

The maid explained that all was ready. Jones the butler had been sent with a note to the City,
and the housemaid was sitting with the kitchen-maid, who was recovering from the flu.

"I told them I'd answer the bell. And I'll keep an eye that no one comes down before he's gone.
There he is!"

For the bell had rung, and the maid hastened to the hall door to answer it.

A tall man entered--coughing.

"Beastly night, Nannie!" he said, as soon as the cough would let him. "Don't suit my style.
Well?--how are you? Had the flu, like everybody else?"

"Not yet, Mr. Roger--though it's been going through the house. Shall I take your coat?"

"You'd better not. I'm too shabby underneath."

"Sir Richard's in the country, Mr. Roger."

"Oh, so her ladyship's alone? Well, that's how I generally find her, isn't it?"

But Nannie--with her eye on the stairs--was not going to allow him any lingering in the hall.
She led him quickly to the drawing-room, opened it, and closed it behind him. Then she herself
retreated into a small smoking-den at the farther end of the hall, and sat there, without a
light, with the door open--watching.

Roger Delane instinctively straightened himself to his full height as he entered his sister's
drawing-room. His overcoat, though much worn, was of an expensive make and cut; he carried
the Malacca cane which had been his companion in the Brookshire roads; and the eyeglass that
he adjusted as he caught sight of his sister completed the general effect of shabby fashion.
His manner was jaunty and defiant.

"Well, Marianne," he said, pausing some yards from her. "You don't seem particularly glad to
see me. Hullo!--has Dick been buying some more china?"

And before his sister could say anything, he had walked over to a table covered with various
bric-a-brac, where, taking up a fine Nankin vase, he looked closely at the marks on its base.

Lady Winton flushed with anger.

"I think you had better leave the china alone, Roger. I have only got a very few minutes. What
do you want? Money, I suppose--as usual! And yet I warned you in my last letter that you would
do this kind of thing once too often, and that we were not going to put up with it!" She struck
the table beside her with her glove.

Delane put down the china and surveyed her.

"The vase is Ming all right--better stuff than Dick generally buys. I congratulate him. Well,
I'm sorry for you, my dear Marianne--but you are my sister--and you can't help yourself!"

He looked at her, half-smiling, with a quiet bravado which enraged her.

"Don't talk like that, Roger! Tell me directly what it is you want. You seem to think you can
force me to see you at any time, whatever I may be doing. But--"

"Your last letter was 'a bit thick'--you see--it provoked me," said Delane calmly. "Of course
you can get the police to chuck me out if you like. You would be quite in your rights. But
I imagine the effect on the aristocratic nerves of Berkeley Square would be amusing. However--"

He looked round him--

"As Carlyle said to the old Queen, 'I'm getting old, madam, and with your leave I'll take a
chair--'"

He pushed an arm-chair forward.

"And let me make up the fire. It's beginning to freeze outside."

Lady Winton moved quickly to the fireplace, holding out a prohibiting hand.

"There is quite enough fire, thank you. I am going out presently."

Delane sat down, and extended a pair of still shapely feet to the slender flame in the grate.

"Dick's boots!" he said, tapping them with his cane, and looking round at his sister. "What
a lot of wear I've got out of them since he threw them away! His overcoat, too. And now that
it's the thing to be shabby, Dick's clothes are really a godsend. I defraud Jones. But I have
no doubt that Jones gets a good deal more than is good for him."

"Look here, Roger!--suppose you stop talking this nonsense and come to business," said Marianne
Winton, in pale exasperation. "I've sent Jones out with a note--but he'll be back directly.
And I've got an appointment. What are you doing? Have you got any work to do?"

She took a seat not far from her brother, who perceived from her tone that he had perhaps gone
as far as was prudent.

"Oh, dear, no, I've got no work to do," he said, smiling. "That's not a commodity that comes
my way. But I must somehow manage to keep a roof over Anita and the child. So what can I do
but count on your assistance, my dear? My father left you a great deal of money which in equity
belonged to me--and I am bound to remind you of it."

"You know very well why he left you so little!" said Lady Winton. "We needn't go into that
old story. I ask you again, what do you want?" She took out her watch. "I have just ten minutes."

"What do I want?" He looked at her with a slow, whimsical laugh. "Money, my dear, money! Money
means everything that I must have--food, coals, clothes, doctor, chemist, buses--decent houseroom
for Anita and myself--"

A shiver of revulsion ran through his sister.

"Have you married that woman?"

He laughed.

"As you seemed to think it desirable, Anita and I did take a trip to a Registry Office about
a month ago. It's all lawful now--except for our abominable English law that doesn't legitimize
the children. But"--he sprang to his feet with a movement which startled her--"whom do you
think I've seen lately?"

His sister stared at him, amazed at the change in him--the animation, the rush of colour in
the hollow, emaciated face.

"Rachel!--my wife--my former--precious--wife. I thought she was in Canada. No doubt she thought
the same of me. But I've stumbled upon her quite by chance--living close to the place where
I had taken lodgings for Anita and the babe, in September, in case there were more raids this
winter. What do you think of that?"

"It doesn't interest me at all," said Lady Winton coldly.

"Then you have no dramatic sense, my dear. Just think! I stroll out, for want of anything better
to do, with Anita, into the market-place of a beastly little country town, to see a silly sort
of show--a mixture of a Harvest Festival and a Land Girls' beano--when without a moment's warning--standing
up in a decorated wagon--I behold--Rachel!--handsomer than ever!--in a kind of khaki dress--tunic,
breeches, and leggings--enormously becoming!--and, of course, the observed of all observers.
More than that!--I perceive a young man, in an American uniform, dancing attendance upon her--taking
her orders--walking her off to church--Oh, a perfectly clear case!--no doubt about it at all.
And there I stood--within a few yards of her--and she never saw me!"

He broke off, staring at his sister--a wild, exultant look--which struck her uncomfortably.
Her face showed her arrested, against her will.

"Are you sure she didn't see you?"

"Sure. I put the child on my shoulder, and hid behind her. Besides--my dear--even Rachel might
find it difficult to recognize her discarded husband--in this individual!"

He tapped his chest lightly. Lady Winton could not withdraw her own eyes from him. Yes, it
was quite true. The change in him was shocking--ghastly. He had brought it entirely on himself.
But she could not help saying, in a somewhat milder tone,--

"Have you seen that doctor again?"

"To whom you so obligingly sent me? Yes, I saw him yesterday. One lung seems to have finally
struck work--caput! as the Germans say. The other will last a bit longer yet."

A fit of coughing seized him. His sister instinctively moved farther away from him, looking
at him with frightened and hostile eyes.

"Don't be alarmed," he said, as soon as he had found his voice again, "I'm drenched in disinfectant.
I take all proper precautions--for the child's sake. Now then"--he rose with an effort to his
feet--"what are you going to do for me?"

His aspect had altered, had assumed a sinister and passionate intensity. His sister was conscious
of the menace in it, and hastily taking up a small hand-bag lying near her, she produced a
purse from it.

"I have saved twenty pounds for you--out of my own money--with great difficulty," she said,
with indignant emphasis. "If I were to tell Richard, he would be furious. And I cannot--do--anything--more
for you, beyond the allowance I give you. Everything you suffer from, you have brought upon,
yourself. It is hopeless to try and help you."

He laughed.

"Well, then, I must try Rachel!" he said carelessly, as he looked for his hat.

"That I think would be the lowest depth!" said Lady Winton, breathing quick, "to beg money
from the wife who divorced you!"

"I am ready to beg for money--requisition is the better word--from anybody in the world who
has more of it than I. I am a Bolshevist. You needn't talk to me about property, or rights.
I don't acknowledge them. I want something that you've got, and I haven't. I shall take it
if I find the opportunity--civilly if I can, uncivilly, if I must."

Lady Winton made no reply. She stood, a statue of angry patience waiting for him to go. He
slowly buttoned on his coat, and then stepped coolly across the room to look at an enlarged
photograph of a young soldier standing on the piano.

"Handsome chap! You're in luck, Marianne. I suppose you managed to get him into a staff job
of some sort, out of harm's way?"

He turned to her with a sneer on his lips. His sister was still silent.

The man moving about the room was perhaps the thing she feared and hated most in the world.
Every scene of this kind--and he forced them on her, in spite of her futile resistance, at
fairly frequent intervals--represented to her an hour of torture and humiliation. How to hide
the scenes and the being who caused them, from her husband, her servants, her friends, was
becoming almost her chief preoccupation. She was beginning to be afraid of her brother. For
some time she had regarded him as incipiently insane, and as she watched him this evening he
seemed to her more than ever charged with sinister possibilities. It appeared to be impossible
to influence or frighten him; and she realized that as he seemed not to care a fig whether
she caused a scandal or not, and she cared with every pulse of her being, she was really in
his power, and it was no good struggling.

"Well, good-night, Edith," he said at last, taking up his hat. "This'll last for a bit--but
not very long, I warn you--prices being what they are. Oh, by the way, my name just now is
Wilson--make a note of it!"

"What's that for?" she said disdainfully.

"Some Canadian creditors of mine got wind of me--worse luck. I had to change my quarters, and
drop the old name--for a bit. However--what's in a name?" He laughed, and held out his hand.

"Going to shake hands, Edie? You used to be awfully fond of me, when you were small."

She stood, apparently unmoved, her hands hanging. The pathetic note had been tried on her too
often.

"Good-night, Roger. Nannie will show you out."

The door closed on him, and Lady Winton dropped on a sofa by the fire, her face showing white
and middle-aged in the firelight. She was just an ordinary woman, only with a stronger will
than most; and as an ordinary woman, amid all her anger and fear, she was not wholly proof
against such a spectacle as that now presented by her once favourite brother. It was not his
words that affected her--but a hundred little personal facts which every time she saw him burnt
a little more deeply into her consciousness the irreparableness of his personal ruin--physical
and moral. Idleness, drink, disease--the loss of shame, of self-respect, of manners--the sense
of something vital gone for ever--all these fatal things stared out upon her, from his slippery
emaciated face, his borrowed clothes, his bullying voice--the scent on him of the mews in which
he lived!

She covered her face with her hands and cried a little. She could remember when he was the
darling and pride of the family--especially of his father. How had it happened? He had said
to her once, "There must have been a black drop somewhere in our forbears, Edie. It has reappeared
in me. We are none of us responsible, my dear, for our precious selves. I may be a sinner and
a loafer--but that benevolent Almighty of yours made me."

That was wicked stuff, of course; but there had been a twist in him from the beginning. Had
she done her best for him? There were times when her conscience pricked her.

The clock struck seven. The sound brought her to her feet. She must go and dress. Richard would
be home directly, and they were dining out, to meet a distinguished General, in London for
a few days' leave from the front. Dick must, of course, know nothing of Roger's visit; and
she must hurriedly go and look up the distinguished General's career in case she had to sit
next him. Vehemently she put the preceding hour out of her mind. The dinner-party to which
she was going flattered her vanity. It turned her cold to think that Roger might some day do
something which would damage that "position" which she had built up for herself and her husband,
by ten years' careful piloting of their joint lives. She knew she was called a "climber." She
knew also that she had "climbed" successfully, and that it was Roger's knowledge of the fact,
combined with a horrid recklessness which seemed to be growing in him, that made the danger
of the situation.

Meanwhile Delane stepped out into the fog, which, however, was lifting a little. He made his
way down into Piccadilly, which was crowded with folk, men and women hurrying home from their
offices, and besieging the omnibuses--with hundreds of soldiers too, most of them with a girl
beside them, and smart young officers of every rank and service--while the whole scene breathed
an animation and excitement, which meant a common consciousness, in the crowd, of great happenings.
All along the street were men with newspapers, showing the headlines to passers-by. "President
Wilson's answer to the German appeal expected to-morrow." "The British entry into Lille."

Delane bought an Evening News, glanced at the headlines, and threw it away. What did the war
matter to him?--or the new world that fools supposed to be coming after it? Consumptives had
a way, no doubt, of living longer than people expected--or hoped. Still, he believed that a
couple of years or so would see him out. And that being so, he felt a kind of malignant indifference
towards this pushing, chattering world, aimlessly going about its silly business, as though
there were any real interest or importance in it.

Then, as he drifted with the crowd, he found himself caught in a specially dense bit of it,
which had gathered round some fallen horses. A thin slip of a girl beside him, who was attempting
to get through the crush, was roughly elbowed by a burly artilleryman determined to see the
show. She protested angrily, and Delane suddenly felt angry, too. "You brute, you,--let the
lady pass!" he called to the soldier, who turned with a grin, and was instantly out of reach
and sight. "Take my arm," said Delane to the girl--"Where are you going?" The little thing
looked up--hesitated--and took his arm. "I'm going to get a bus at the Circus." "All right.
I'll see you there." She laughed and flushed, and they walked on together. Delane looked at
her with curiosity. High cheek-bones--a red spot of colour on them--a sharp chin--small, emaciated
features, and beautiful deep eyes. Phthisical!--like himself--poor little wretch! He found
out that she was a waitress in a cheap eating-house, and had very long hours. "Jolly good pay,
though, compared to what it used to be! Why, with tips, on a good day, I can make seven and
eight shillings. That's good, ain't it? And now the war's goin' to stop. Do you think I want
it to stop? I don't think! Me and my sister'll be starvin' again, I suppose?"

He found out she was an orphan, living with her sister, who was a typist, in Kentish town.
But she refused to tell him her address, which he idly asked her. "What did you want with it?"
she said, with a sudden frown. "I'm straight, I am. There's my bus! Night! night!--So long!"
And with a half-sarcastic wave of her tiny hand, she left him, and was soon engulfed in the
swirl round a north-bound bus.

He wandered on along Regent Street, and Waterloo Place, down the Duke of York's steps into
the Mall, where some captured guns were already in position, with children swarming about them;
and so through St. James's Park to the Abbey. The fog was now all but clear, and there were
frosty stars overhead. The Abbey towers rose out of a purple haze, etherially pale and moon-touched.
The House of Commons was sitting, but there was still no light on the Clock Tower, and no unmuffling
of the lamps. London was waiting, as the world was waiting, for the next step in the vast drama
which had three continents for its setting; and meanwhile, save for the added movements in
the streets, and a new something in the faces of the crowds hurrying along the pavements, there
was nothing to show that all was in fact over, and the war won.

Delane followed a stream of people entering the Abbey through the north transept. He was carried
on by them, till a verger showed him into a seat near the choir, and he mechanically obeyed,
and dropped on his knees.

When he rose from them, the choir was filing in, and the vergers with their pokers were escorting
the officiating Canon to his seat. Delane had not been inside a church for two or three years,
and it was a good deal more since he had stood last in Westminster Abbey. But as he watched
the once familiar spectacle there flowed back upon him, with startling force, old impressions
and traditions. He was in Cambridge again, a King's man, attending King's Chapel. He was thinking
of his approaching Schools, and there rose in his mind a number of figures, moving or at rest,
Cambridge men like himself, long since dismissed from recollection. Suddenly memory seemed
to open out--to become full, and urgent, and emphatic. He appeared to be living at a great
rate, to be thinking and feeling with peculiar force. Perhaps it was fever. His hands burnt.

As the chant rose, and he recognized the words, he felt extraordinarily exalted, released,
purified. Why not think away the past? It has no existence, except in thought.

"I am what I conceive myself to be--who can prove me to be anything else? What am I then! An
educated man, with a mind--an intelligence. I have damaged it, but there it is--still mine."

His eyes wandered, during the Lesson, to the line of sculptured Statesmen in the north transept.
He had taken History honours, and his thoughts began to play with matter still stored in them:
an essay on Dizzy and Cobden he had written for a Cambridge club--or Gladstone's funeral, which
he had seen as a boy of seventeen. He had sat almost in this very place, with his mother, who
had taken pains to bring him to see it as an historic spectacle which he might wish to remember.
A quiet, dull woman, his mother--taciturn, and something of a bookworm. She had never understood
him, nor he her. But she had occasionally shown moments of expansion and emotion, when the
soul within glowed a little through its coverings; and he remembered the look in her eyes as
the coffin disappeared into the earth, amid the black-coated throng of Lords and Commons. She
had been for years a great though silent worshipper of Mr. Gladstone, to the constant amusement
of her Tory husband and sons.

Then, suddenly, a face, a woman's pretty face, in the benches of the north transept, caught
his eye, and with a leap, as of something unchained, the beast within him awoke. It had reminded
him of Rachel; and therewith the decent memories of the distant past disappeared, engulfed
by the seething, ugly, mud-stained present. He was again crouching on the hill-side, in the
shelter of the holly, watching the scene within: Rachel in that man's arms! Had the American
seen him? He remembered his own backward start of alarm, as Ellesborough suddenly turned and
walked towards the window. He had allowed himself, in his eagerness to see, to press too near.
He had exposed himself? He did not really believe that he had been discovered--unless the American
was an uncommonly cool hand! Any way, his retreat to the wooded cover of the hill had been
prompt. Once arrived in the thick plantation on the crest, he had thrown himself down exhausted.
But as he sat panting there, on the fringe of the wood, he had fancied voices and the flash
of a light in the hollow beneath him. These slight signs of movement, however, had quickly
disappeared. Darkness and silence resumed possession of the farm, and he had had no difficulty
in finding his way unmolested through the trees to the main road, and to the little town, five
miles nearer to London than Millsborough, at which he had taken a room, under his present name
of Wilson.

The wooded common, indeed, with its high, withered bracken, together with the hills encircling
the farm, had been the cover from which he had carried out his prying campaign upon his former
wife. As he sat or knelt, mechanically, under the high and shadowy spaces of the Abbey, his
mind filled with excited recollections of that other evening when, after tearing his hand badly
on some barbed wire surrounding one of Colonel Shepherd's game preserves, so that it bled profusely,
and he had nothing to bandage it with, he had suddenly become aware of voices behind him, and
of a large party of men in khaki--Canadian foresters, by the look of them, from the Ralstone
timber camp, advancing, at some distance, in a long extended line through the trees; so that
they were bound to come upon him if he remained in the wood. He turned back at once, faced
the barbed wire again, with renewed damage both to clothes and hands, and ran, crouching, down
the green road leading to the farm, his wound bleeding as he ran. Then he had perceived an
old labourer making for him with shouts. But under the shelter of the cart-shed, he had first
succeeded in tying his handkerchief so tightly round his wrist, with his teeth and one hand,
as to check the bleeding, which was beginning to make him feel faint. Then, creeping round
the back of the farm, he saw that the upper half of the stable door was open, and leaping over
it, he had hidden among the horses, just as Halsey came past in pursuit. The old man--confound
him!--had made the circuit of the farm, and had then gone up the grass road to the hill. Delane,
looking out from the dark stable, had been able to watch him through the dusk, keeping an eye
the while to the opposite door opening on the farm-yard. But the labourer disappeared, and
in the dark roomy stable, with its beamed roof, nothing could be heard but the champing and
slow tramping movements of the splendid cart-horses. Rachel's horses! Delane passed his free
hand over two of them, and they turned their stately heads and nosed him in a quiet way. Then
he vaulted again over the half door, and hurried up the hill, in the gathering darkness.

He was aware of the ghost-story. He had heard it and the story of the murder from a man cutting
bracken on the common; and he had already formed some vague notions of making use of it for
the blackmailing of Rachel. It amused him to think that perhaps his sudden disappearance would
lead to a new chapter of the old tale.

Then at the recollection of Rachel's prosperity and peace, of her sleek horses and cows, her
huge hay and corn stacks, her comfortable home, and her new lover, a fresh shudder of rage
and hatred gripped him. She had once been his thing--his chattel; he seemed to see her white
neck and breast, her unbound hair on the pillow beside him--and she had escaped him, and danced
on him.

Of course she had betrayed him--of course she had had a lover! What other explanation was there
of her turning against him?--of her flight from his house? But she had been clever enough to
hide all the traces of it. He recalled his own lame and baffled attempts to get hold of some
evidence against her, with gnashing of teeth....

       *       *       *       *       *

"For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal!"

He caught the words staring at him from the page of the open prayer book beside him, and automatically
the Greek equivalent suggested itself. He had always done well in "divinners"! Then he became
aware that the blessing had been given, that the organ was playing, and the congregation was
breaking up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-four hours later, Delane found himself on a road leading up from the town where he was
lodging to the summit of the wide stretch of common land on the western side of which lay Great
End Farm. Half way up a long hill, he came upon a young man in uniform, disconsolately kneeling
beside a bicycle which he seemed to be vainly trying to mend. As Delane came up with him, he
looked up and asked for a light. Delane produced a match, and the young man, by the help of
it, inspected his broken machine.

"No go!" he said with a shrug, "I shall have to walk."

He rose from the ground, put up the tool he had been using, and buttoned up his coat. Then
he asked Delane where he was going. Delane named a little village on the farther edge of the
common.

"Oh, well, that's straight ahead. I turn off to the right," said the young soldier, "at the
cross road."

They walked on together, Delane rather unwillingly submitting to the companionship thus sprung
upon him. He saw from the badge on the man's shoulder that he belonged to one of the Canadian
Forestry Corps in the district, and was at once on his guard. They started in silence, till
Delane, pulling his mind back with a jerk, asked his companion if he was going to Ipscombe.

"No--only to Great End Farm."

Darkness hid the sudden change in Delane's countenance.

"You know some one there?"

"No, but I want to see one of the ladies about something. There's two of them running the farm.
But Miss Henderson's the boss."

Cautiously, with assumed indifference, Delane began to ask questions.

He discovered that his companion's name was Dempsey; and before many minutes had passed the
murderer's grandson was in the full swing of his story. Delane, despising the young man for
a chattering fool, listened, nevertheless, with absorbed attention to every item of his tale.
Presently Dempsey said with a laugh,--

"There's been people in Ipscombe all these years as always would have it old Watson walked.
I know the names of three people at least as have sworn to seein' 'im. And there's an old fellow
in Ipscombe now that declares he's seen him, only t'ther day."

Delane lit his pipe, and nonchalantly inquired particulars.

Dempsey gave a mocking account of Halsey's story.

"He's an old fool! Did you ever hear of a ghost bleedin' before!" The speaker threw back his
head and laughed. "That's all rot! Besides, I don't believe in ghosts--never did. But as Miss
Henderson's farmin' the very land where old Watson was done in, I thought she'd like to have
the true story and first hand. And there's no one but me knows it--not first hand. So I wrote
to her, and said as I would call at six o'clock this evening."

"You know her?"

"No--o," said the young man, hesitating. "But I somehow fancy as I may have seen her before."

"Where?"

"Why, in Canada. I was living on a farm, not far from Winnipeg"--he named the place. Delane
suddenly dropped his pipe, and stooped to pick it up.

"All right," he said, "go on."

"And there was a man--a sort of gentleman--his name was Delane--on another farm about ten miles
from where I was working. People talked of him no end--he was a precious bad lot! I never saw
him that I know of--but I saw his wife twice. They say he was a brute to her. And she was awfully
handsome. You couldn't forget her when you'd once come across her. And when I saw Miss Henderson
drivin' one of the wagons in the Millsborough Harvest Festival, a fortnight ago, I could have
sworn it was Mrs. Delane. But, of course, it was my mistake."

"Where did you see Mrs. Delane?"

"Once at her own place. I was delivering some poultry food that Delane had bought of my employer--and
once at a place belongin' to a man called Tanner."

"Tanner?"

"Tanner. He was somethin' the same sort as Delane. We've a lot of them in Canada--remittance
men, we call them--men as can't get on in the old country--and their relations pay 'em to go--and
pay 'em to keep away. But Tanner was a nice sort of fellow--quite different from Delane. He
painted pictures. I remember his showin' some o' them in Winnipeg. But he was always down on
his luck. He couldn't make any money, and he couldn't keep it."

"You saw Miss Henderson there?"

Dempsey gave a guffaw.

"Oh, Lor, no! I don't say that. Why, I'd get into trouble--shouldn't I? But I saw Mrs. Delane.
I was driving past Tanner's place, with two horses, and a heavy load, November two years ago--just
before we passed our Military Service Act, and I joined up. And an awful storm came on--a regular
blizzard. Before I got to Tanner's I was nearly wore out, an' the horses, too. So I stopped
to ask for a hot drink or somethin'. You couldn't see the horses' heads for the snow. And Tanner
brought me out some hot coffee--I'm a teetotaller, you see--an' a woman stood at the door,
and handed it to him. She was holdin' a lamp, so I saw her quite plain. And I knew her at once,
though she was only there a minute. It was Mrs. Roger Delane."

He stopped to light a cigarette. No sound came from his companion. All round them spread the
great common, with its old thorns, its clumps of fir, its hollows and girdling woods, faintly
lit by a ghostly moonlight that was just beginning to penetrate the misty November dusk. The
cheerful light of Dempsey's cigarette shone a moment in the gloom. Delane was conscious of
an excitement which it took all his will to master. But he spoke carelessly.

"And what was Mrs. Delane doing there?"

Dempsey chuckled.

"How should I know? Tanner used to have a sister staying with him sometimes. Perhaps she and
Mrs. Delane were friends. But I saw that woman quite plain. It was Mrs. Delane--that I'll swear.
And Miss Henderson is as like her as two peas. It might have been her sister. Miss Henderson's
very uncommon-looking. You don't often see that complexion and that hair. And she has lived
in Canada."

"How do you know?"

"She told old Halsey. Well, there's my road, just ahead. And if you're going to Moor End, you
keep straight on. The moon's coming up. It won't be very dark." And with a careless good-night,
the Canadian turned a corner, and disappeared along a road which diverged at a right angle
from the main road, and led, as Delane knew, direct to Ipscombe.

He himself walked on, till he found a lane tunnelled through one of the deep woods that on
their western side ran down to Great End Farm. In the heart of that wood there was a keeper's
hut, disused entirely since the war. Delane had discovered it, and was quite prepared to spend
a night there at a pinch. There was a rude fireplace in it, and some old sacks. With some of
the fallen wood lying about, a man could make a fire, and pass a winter night in very tolerable
comfort.

He made his way in, managed to prop a sack against the small cobwebbed window, fastened the
door with a rusty bolt, and brought out an electric torch he always carried in his pocket.

There was not a house within a long distance. There were no keepers now on Colonel Shepherd's
estate. Darkness--the woods--and the wild creatures in them--were his only companions. Half
a mile away, no doubt, Rachel in her smart new parlour was talking to the Canadian fellow.

Tanner! Ye gods! At last he had the clue to it all.

X

Dempsey did not find Rachel Henderson at home when he called at Great End Farm, after his meeting
with his unknown companion on the common.

Ellesborough and Rachel had gone to London for the day. Ellesborough's duties at the Ralstone
camp were in a state of suspended animation, since, in these expectant days before the signing
of the armistice, there had been a general slackening, as though by silent and general consent,
in the timber felling due to the war throughout the beautiful district in which Millsborough
lay. Enough damage had been done already to the great wood-sanctuaries. On one pretext or another
men held their hands.

Ellesborough then was free to take time off when he would, and to spend it in love-making.
The engagement had been announced, and Ellesborough believed himself a very happy man--with
the slight drawbacks that may be imagined.

In the first place--although, as he became better acquainted with Rachel's varying moods and
aspects, he fell more and more deeply under the charm of her temperament--a temperament at
once passionate and childish, crude, and subtle, with many signs, fugitive and surprising,
of a deep and tragic reflectiveness; he became also more and more conscious of what seemed
to him the lasting effects upon her of her miserable marriage. The nervous effects above all;
shown by the vague "fears" of which she had spoken to him, on one of their early walks together;
and by the gulfs of depression and silence into which she would often fall, after periods of
high, even wild spirits.

It was this constant perception of a state of nervous suffering and irritability in this splendid
physical creature--a state explained, as he thought, by her story, which had put him instantly
on his guard, when that sinister vision at the window had sprung for a moment out of the darkness.
Before almost he could move towards it, it had gone. And with a farewell smile at the woman
he had just been holding in his arms, a smile which betrayed nothing, he had hurried away from
her to investigate the mystery. A hasty word to Janet Leighton in the kitchen, and he was making
a rapid circuit of the farm, and searching the farm-yard; with no results whatever.

Then he, Janet, and Hastings had held a hurried and secret colloquy in a corner of the great
cow-shed, as far from Rachel's sight and hearing as possible. Clearly some one was haunting
the farm for some malicious purpose. Hastings, for the first time, told the story of the blood-marks,
and of two or three other supposed visions of a man, tall and stooping, with a dark sallow
face, which persons working on the farm, or walking near it on the hill, had either seen or
imagined. Ellesborough finally had jumped on his motor-bicycle and ridden off to the police
depot at Millsborough. Some wind of the happenings at Great End Farm had already reached the
police, but they could throw no light on them. They arranged, however, with Ellesborough to
patrol the farm and the neighbourhood after dark as often as their diminished force would allow.

They were inclined to believe that some half-witted person was concerned, drawn, perhaps, from
the alien population which had been floating through the district, and bent on mischief or
robbery--or a mixture of both.

Rachel meanwhile knew nothing of these consultations. After her engagement was made public,
she began to look so white, so tired and tremulous, that both Ellesborough and Janet were alarmed.
Overwork, according to Janet, with the threshing, and in the potato-fields. Never had Rachel
worked with such a feverish energy as in these autumn weeks. Add the excitement of an engagement,
said Janet, and you see the result.

She would have prescribed bed and rest; but Rachel scouted the advice. The alternative was
amusement--change of scene--in Ellesborough's company. Here she was more docile, feverishly
submissive and happy, indeed, so long as Ellesborough made the plans, and Ellesborough watched
over her. Janet wondered at certain profound changes in her. It was, she saw, the first real
passion of Rachel's life.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Dempsey called in vain. Miss Henderson was in town for a theatre and shopping. But he saw
Janet Leighton, to whom with all the dramatic additions and flourishes he had now bestowed
upon it, he told his story. Janet, who, on a hint from Hastings, had expected the visitation,
was at any rate glad that Rachel was out of the way, seeing what a strong and curious dislike
she had to the ghost-story, and also to any talk of the murder from which it originated.

Janet, however, listened, and with a growing and fascinated attention, to the old tale. Was
there some real connection, she wondered, between it and the creature who had been prowling
round the farm? Was some one personating the ghost, and for what reason? The same queries were
ardently in the mind of Dempsey. He reported Halsey's adventure, commenting on it indignantly.

"It's some one as knows the story, and is playin' the fool with it. It's a very impudent thing
to do! It's not playing fair, that's what it isn't; and I'd like to get hold of him."

Janet's mouth twitched. The young man's proprietorial interest in his grandfather's crime,
and annoyance that any one should interfere with it, turned the whole thing to comedy. Moreover,
his fatuous absorption in that side of the matter made him useless for any other purpose: so
that she soon ceased from cross-examining him, and he rose to go.

"Well, I'm sorry not to have seen Miss Henderson," he said awkwardly, twisting his cap. "I'd
like to have had a talk with her about Canada. It was old Halsey told me she'd lived in Canada."

"Yes," said Janet irresponsively.

Dempsey smiled broadly and seemed embarrassed. At last he said with a jerk:--

"I wonder if Miss Henderson ever knew a man called Tanner--who lived near Winnipeg?"

"I never heard her speak of him."

"Because"--he still twirled--"when I saw Miss Henderson at Millsborough that day of the rally,
I thought as I'd seen her before."

"Oh?" said Janet ardently. But some instinct put her on her guard.

"Dick Tanner, they called him, was a man--an artist chap--who lived not far from the man I
was with--and I once saw a lady there just like Miss Henderson."

"Did you?"

Dempsey grew bolder.

"Only it couldn't have been Miss Henderson, you see--because this lady I saw was a Mrs. Delane.
But was Mrs. Delane perhaps a relation of Miss Henderson? She was just like Miss Henderson."

"I'll ask Miss Henderson," said Janet, moving towards the door, as a signal to him to take
his leave. "But I expect you're confusing her with some one else."

Dempsey, however, began rather eagerly to dot the i's. The picture of the snowstorm, of the
woman at the door, various points in his description of her, and of the solitary--apparently
bachelor--owner of the farm, began to affect Janet uncomfortably. She got rid of the chatter-box
as soon as possible, and went slowly to the kitchen, to get supper ready. As she fried the
bacon, and took some vegetables out of the hay-box, she was thinking fast.

Tanner? No--she had never heard Rachel mention the name. But it happened that Dempsey had given
a precise date. It was in the "November before they Passed Conscription" in Canada, i.e. before
he himself was called up--that he saw Mrs. Delane, at night, in Dick Tanner's house. And Janet
remembered that, according to the story which as they two sat by the fire alone at night, when
the girls were gone to bed, Rachel had gradually built up before her. It was in that same month
that Rachel had been deserted by Delane; who had gone off to British Columbia with the Italian
girl, as his wife afterwards knew, leaving Rachel alone on the farm--with one Japanese servant.

Why shouldn't she have been staying on Mr. Tanner's farm? There was no doubt some one else
there--whom the boy didn't see. Perhaps she had herself taken refuge there during the storm.
But all the same Janet felt vaguely troubled.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly seven o'clock, and the moon, now at the full, was rising over the eastern hill,
and balancing the stubbles and the new-turned plough-lands in the upland cup to a pearly whiteness
as they lay under the dark woods and a fleecy sky. There was a sound of a motor in the lane--the
village taxi bringing the travellers home.

In a few more minutes they were in the sitting-room, Rachel throwing off her thick coat with
Ellesborough's help, and declaring that she was not the least tired.

"Don't believe her!" said Ellesborough, smiling at Janet. "She is not a truthful woman!"

And his proud eyes returned to Rachel as though now that there was light to see her by he had
no other use for them.

Rachel, indeed, was in a radiant mood. Pallor and depression had vanished; she was full of
chatter about the streets, the crowds, the shops.

"But it's hopeless to go shopping with a man! He can't make up his mind one bit!"

"He hadn't a mind to make up!" murmured Ellesborough, looking up at her as she perched above
him on a corner of the table.

She laughed.

"That, I suppose, was what made him want to buy the whole place! If I'd taken his advice, Janet,
I should have been just cleaned out!"

"What's the good of being economical when one's going to be married!" said Ellesborough, joyously.
"Why--"

Rachel interrupted him--with a hand on his shoulder.

"And we've settled our plans, Janet--that is, if you're agreeable. Will you mind looking after
the farm for six months?"

"You see, if the armistice is signed--and we shall know to-morrow," said Ellesborough, "I shall
be free in a month or so, and then we propose to marry and get a passage before Christmas.
I must go home, and she says she'll come with me!"

A shadow had fallen suddenly, it seemed to Janet, over Rachel's aspect, but she at once endorsed
what Ellesborough had said.

"We can't settle things--can we?--till we've seen his people. We've got to decide whether I'll
go to America, or he'll come here."

"But we want to say"--Ellesborough turned gravely to Janet--"that first and foremost, we wish
to do the best for you."

The sudden tears came into Janet's eyes. But they did not show.

"Oh, that'll be all right. Don't bother about me."

"We shall bother!" said Rachel with energy, "but I'll tell you all about it presently. He won't
stay to supper."

She descended from the table, and Ellesborough rose. After a little more chat about the day
and its doings, he said good-night to Janet.

"How do you get back?"

"Oh, I left my bike in the village. I shall walk and pick it up there."

Rachel took up her thick coat and slipped it on again. She would walk with him to the road,
she said--there were some more things to say.

Janet watched them go out into the wide frosty night, where the sky was shedding its clouds,
and the temperature was falling rapidly. She realized that they were in that stage of passion
when everything is unreal outside the one supreme thing, and all other life passes like a show
half-seen. And all the while the name Tanner--Dick Tanner--echoed in her mind. Such a simple
thing to put a careless question to Rachel! Yet perhaps--after all--not so simple.

Meanwhile the two lovers were together on the path through the stubbles, walking hand-in-hand
through the magic of the moonlight.

"Will you write a little line to my mother to-morrow?"

"Yes, of course. But--"

He caught her long breath.

"I have prepared the way, darling. I promise you--it will be all right."

"But why--why--didn't I see you first?" It was a stifled cry, which seemed somehow to speak
for them both. And she added, bitterly, "It's no good talking--it can't ever be the same--to
you, or to your people."

"It shall be the same! Or rather, we shall owe you a double share of love to make up to you--for
that horrible time. Forget it, dear--make yourself forget it. My mother would tell you so at once."

"Isn't she--very strict about divorce?"

Ellesborough hesitated--just a moment.

"She couldn't have any doubts about your case--dearest--who could? You fell among thieves, and--"

"And you're picking me up, and taking me to the inn?"

He pressed her hand passionately. They walked in silence till the gate appeared.

"Go back, dearest. I shall be over on Sunday."

"Not till then?"

"I'm afraid not. If the peace news comes tomorrow, the camp'll go mad, and I shall have to
look after them."

They paused at the gate, and he kissed her. She lay passive in his arms, the moonlight touched
her brown hair, and the beautiful curves of her cheek and throat.

"Wasn't it heavenly to-day?" she whispered.

"Heavenly! Go home!"

She turned back towards the farm, drawing her cloak and its fur collar close round her, against
the cold. And indeed Ellesborough was no sooner gone, the rush of the motor cycle along the
distant road had no sooner died away, than a shiver ran through her which was more than physical.
So long as he was there, she was happy, excited, hopeful. And when he was not there, the protecting
screen had fallen, and she was exposed to all the stress and terror of the storm raging in
her own mind.

"Why can't I forget it all--everything! It's dead--it's dead!" she said to herself again and
again in an anguish, as she walked back through the broad open field where the winter-sown
corn was just springing in the furrows--the moon was so bright that she could see the tiny
green spears of it.

And yet in reality she perfectly understood why it was that, instead of forgetting, memory
was becoming more and more poignant, more and more persecuting. It was because the searching
processes of love were going deeper and deeper into her inmost soul. This good man who loved
her, who was going to take her injured life into his keeping, to devote to her all his future,
and all the harvest of his upright and hard-working past--she was going to marry him with a
lie between them, so that she could never look him straight in the face, never be certain that,
sometime or other, something would not emerge like a drowned face from the dark, and ruin all
their happiness. It had seemed, at the beginning, so easy to keep silence, to tell everything
but the one miserable fact that she couldn't tell! And now it was getting intolerably hard,
just because she knew for the first time what love really meant, with its ardour for self-revelation,
for an absolute union with the beloved. By marrying him without confession, she would not only
be wronging him, she would be laying up probable misery for herself--and him--through the mere
action of her own temperament.

For she knew herself. Among the girls and women she had been thrown with during the preceding
year and a half, there were some moral anarchists, with whose views she had become strikingly
familiar. Why, they said, make so much of these physical facts? Accept them, and the incidents
that spring from them. Why all this weeping and wailing over supposed shames and disgraces?
The sex-life of the present is making its own new codes. Who knows what they will ultimately
be? And as for the indelible traces and effects of an act of weakness or passion that the sentimental
and goody-goody people talk of, in the majority of cases they don't exist. After it, the human
being concerned may be just the same as before.

Rachel was quite aware of this modern gospel. Only she was shut out from adopting it in her
own case by an invincible heredity, by the spirit of her father in her, the saintly old preacher,
whose uncompromising faith she had witnessed and shared through all her young years. She might
and did protest that the faith was no longer hers. But it had stamped her. She could never
be wholly rid of its prejudices and repulsions. What would her father have said to her divorce?--he
with his mystical conception of marriage? She dreaded to think. And as to that other fact which
weighed on her conscience, she seemed to hear herself pleading--with tears!--"Father!--it wasn't
my will--it was my weakness!--Don't look at me so!"

And now, in addition, there was the pressure upon her of Ellesborough's own high ideals and
religious temper; of the ideals, also, of his family, as he was tenderly and unconsciously
revealing them. And, finally, there was the daily influence of Janet's neighbourhood--Janet,
so austere for herself, so pitiful for others: Janet, so like Ellesborough in the unconscious
sternness of her moral outlook, so full, besides, of an infinite sorrow for the sinner.

And between these two stood this variable, sensuous, woman's nature, so capable both of good
and evil. Rachel felt the burden of their virtues too much for her, together with the sting
of her own secret knowledge.

In some moments, even, she rebelled against her own passion. She had such a moment of revolt,
in this moonlit dark, as her eyes took in the farm, the dim outlines of the farm buildings,
the stacks, the new-ploughed furrows. Two months earlier her life had been absorbed in simple,
clear, practical ambitions: how to improve her stock--how to grow another bushel to the acre--how
and when to build a silo--whether to try electrification: a score of pleasant riddles that
made the hours fly. And now this old fever had crept again into her blood, and everything had
lost its savour. There were times when she bitterly, childishly, regretted it. She could almost
have hated Ellesborough, because she loved him so well; and because of the terror, the ceaseless
preoccupation that her love had begun to impose upon her.

Janet, watching her come in, saw that the radiance had departed, and that she crept about again
like a tired woman. When, after nine o'clock, they were alone by the fire, again and again
it was on the tip of Janet's tongue to say, "Tell me, who was Dick Tanner?" Then, in a sudden
panic fear, lest the words should slip out, and bring something irreparable, she would get
up, and make a restless pretence of some household work or other, only to sit down and begin
the same inward debate once more. But she said nothing, and Rachel, too, was silent. She sat
over the fire, apparently half asleep. Neither of them moved to go to bed till nearly midnight.

Then they kissed each other, and Janet raked out the fire.

"To-morrow!" she said, her eyes on the red glow of the embers, "to-morrow!--Will it be peace?"

And then Rachel remembered that all the civilized world was waiting for the words that would
end the war. Somewhere in a French château there was a group of men conferring, and on the
issue of this night depended the lives of thousands, and the peace of Europe.

Janet raised her clasped hands, and her plain, quiet face shone in the candle-light. She murmured
something. Rachel guessed it was a prayer. But her own heart seemed dead and dumb. She could
not free it from its load of personal care; she could not feel the patriotic emotion which
had suddenly seized on Janet.

The morning broke grey and misty. The two labourers and the girls went about their work--raising
their heads now and then to listen. And at eleven came the signal. Out rang the bells from
Ipscombe Church tower. Labourers and girls threw down what they were doing, and gathered in
the farm-yard round Janet and Rachel, who were waving flags on the steps of the farm-house.
Then Rachel gave them all a holiday for the rest of the day, and very soon there was no one
left on the farm premises but the two women and the bailiff.

"Don't stay, Hastings," said Rachel. "I'll get the horse and cart myself."

For it was market day at Millsborough, and peace or no peace, she had some business that must
be done there.

"Oh, I've no call to go, Miss," said Hastings. "I'd rather stay and look after things."

His eyes met Janet's, and she nodded imperceptibly. She was relieved to think of Hastings--good,
faithful, unassuming creature!--remaining on guard. The very desertion of the farm-houses on
this great day might tempt marauders--especially that thief or madman who had been haunting
their own premises. She hoped the police would not forget them either. But Hastings' offer
to stay till the girls came back from the Millsborough crowds and bands at about nine o'clock
quite eased her mind. And meanwhile she and Hastings, as had been agreed, kept their anxieties
from Rachel.

Rachel went off at twelve o'clock in her khaki suit, driving a spirited young horse in a high
cart, which was filled with farm produce. She was to take early dinner with some new friends,
and then to go and look at a Jersey cow which Janet coveted, in a farm on the other side of
Millsborough.

"Don't wait tea for me," she said to Janet, "I shall get some somewhere." And then with a smile
to them both she was off. Janet stood looking after her, lost in a painful uncertainty. "Can't
you let it alone?" Lord Melbourne was accustomed to say suavely to those members of the Cabinet
who brought him grievances or scandals that wanted seeing to. One half of Janet's mind was
saying, "Can't you let it alone?" to the other half.

XI

The daylight had all gone when Rachel at last got into her cart in the yard of the Rose and
Thistle at Millsborough and took the reins. But there was a faint moonrise struggling through
the mist in which the little town and countryside were shrouded. And in the town, with its
laughing and singing crowds, its bright shop windows, its moist, straggling flags, the mist,
lying gently over the old houses, the moving people, the flashes and streamers of light, was
extraordinarily romantic and beautifying.

Rachel drove slowly through the streets, delighting in the noise and excitement, in the sheer
new pleasure of everything, the world--human beings--living--the end of the war. And out among
the fields, and in the country road, the November sun was still beautiful; what with the pearly
mist, and the purple shapes of the forest-covered hills. She had been much made of in Millsborough.
People were anxious to talk to her, to invite her, to do business with her. Her engagement,
she perceived, had made her doubly interesting. She was going to be prosperous, to succeed--and
all the world smiled upon her.

So that her pulses were running fast as she reached Ipscombe, where, in the mild fog, a few
groups were standing about, and a few doors were open. And now--there was home!--in front of
her. And--Heavens! what had Janet done? Rachel pulled up the horse, and sat enchanted, looking
at the farm. For there it lay, pricked out in light, its old Georgian lines against the background
of the hill. Every window had a light in it--every blind was drawn up--it was Janet's illumination
for the peace. She had made of the old house "an insubstantial faery place," and Rachel laughed
for pleasure.

Then she drove eagerly on into the dark tunnel of trees that lay between her and the house.

Suddenly a shape rushed out of the hedge into the light of the lamps, and a man laid a violent
hand upon the horse's reins. The horse reared, and Rachel cried out,--

"What are you doing? Let go!"

But the man held the struggling horse, at once coercing and taming it, with an expert hand.
A voice!--that sent a sudden horror through Rachel,--

"Sit where you are--hold tight!--don't be a fool!--he'll quiet down."

She sat paralysed; and, still holding the reins, though the trembling horse was now quiet,
a man advanced into the light of the left-hand lamp.

"Well--do you know me?" he said quietly.

She struggled for breath and self-control.

"Let those reins alone!--what are you doing here?"

And snatching up her whip, she bent forward. But he made a spring at it, snatched it easily
with a laugh, and broke it.

"You know you never were strong enough to get the better of me. Why do you try? Don't be an
idiot. I want to make an appointment with you. You can't escape me. I've watched you for weeks.
And see you alone, too. Without that fellow you're engaged to."

Her passion rose, in spite of her deadly fear.

"He'll take care of that," she said, "and the police. I'm not helpless now--as I used to be."

"Ah, but you'd better see me. I've got a great deal to say that concerns you. I suppose you've
told that American chap a very pretty story about our divorce? Well, it took me a long time
to get to the bottom of it myself. But now I'm--well, disillusioned!"

He came closer, close to the rail of the cart and the lamp, so that she saw clearly the haggard
wreck of what once had been Roger Delane, and the evil triumph in his eyes.

"Who stayed the night alone, with Dick Tanner, on his place, when I was safely got rid of?"
he said, in a low but clear voice. "And then who played the innocent--who did?"

"Liar!"

"Not at all. I've got some new evidence now--some quite fresh light on the scene--which may
be useful to me. I want money. You seem to have a lot. And I want to be paid back a little
of what I'm owed. Oh, I can hold my tongue, if it's made worth my while. I don't suppose you've
told your American young man anything about Dick Tanner--eh?"

"Let go the horse!" she said fiercely, trying to recapture the reins. "You've nothing to do
with me any more."

"Haven't I? Oh, by all means tell your Yankee that I've waylaid you. I shouldn't at all object
to an interview with him. In fact, I rather think of asking for it. But if you want to prevent
it, you've got to do what you're told."

He came closer, and spoke with slow emphasis. "You've got to arrange a time--when I can see
you--alone? When shall it be?"

Silence. But far ahead there were sounds as of some one approaching. Delane leapt on the step
of the cart.

"This is Monday. Wednesday night--get rid of everybody! You can do it if you like. I shall
come at nine. You've got to let me in."

Her white, quivering face was all his answer.

"Don't forget," he said, jumping down. "Good-night!"

And in a second he was gone, where, she could not tell.

The reins fell from her grasp. She leant back in the cart, half fainting. The horse, finding
the reins on his neck, strayed to the grassy side of the road, and began grazing. A short time
passed. In another minute or two the left wheel would have gone done into a deep ditch.

"Hallo!" cried a man's voice. "What the matter?"

Rachel tried to rouse herself, but could only murmur inarticulately. The man jumped off his
bicycle, propped it against a tree, and came running to her.

He saw a woman, in a khaki felt hat and khaki dress, sitting hunched up in a fainting state
on the seat of a light cart. He was just in time to catch the horse and turn it back to the
road. Then in his astonishment John Dempsey altogether forgot himself.

"Don't be frightened, Mrs. Delane! Why, you've had a faint. But never mind. Cheer up! I'll
get you home safe."

And Rachel, reviving, opened her heavy eyes to see stooping over her the face of the lad in
the hooded cart whom she had last seen in the night of that November snowstorm, two years before.

"What did you say?" she asked stupidly. Then, raising herself, with an instinctive gesture
she smoothed back her hair from her face, and straightened her hat. "Thank you, I'm all right."

Dempsey's mouth as he retreated from her shaped itself to an involuntary grin.

"I beg your pardon, ma'am--but I think I've seen you in Canada. Didn't I once come to your
place, with a parcel from Mr. Grimes--that was my employer--of Redminster? I remember you had
a Jap servant. And there was another time, I think"--the lad's eyes fixed her, contracted a
little, and sharp with curiosity--"when you and Mr. Dick Tanner gave me that fizzling hot coffee--don't
you remember?--in that awful blizzard two years ago? And Mr. Tanner gave the horses a feed,
too. Awfully good chap, Mr. Tanner. I don't know what I should have done without that coffee."

Rachel was still deathly white, but she had recovered possession of herself, and her mind was
working madly through a score of possibilities.

"You're quite mistaken," she said coldly, "I never saw you before that I am aware of. Please
let go the reins. I can manage now quite well. I don't know what made me feel ill. I'm all
right now."

"You've got the reins twisted round the shaft, miss," said Dempsey officiously. "You'd better
let me put 'em right."

And without waiting for a reply, he began to disentangle them, not without a good deal of fidgeting
from the horse, which delayed him. His mouth twitched with laughter as he bent over the shaft.
Deny that she was Mrs. Delane! That was a good one. Why, now that he had seen her close, he
could swear to her anywhere.

Rachel watched him, her senses sharpening rapidly. Only a few minutes since Roger had been
there--and now, this man. Had they met? Was there collusion between them? There must be. How
else could Roger know? No one else in the world but this youth could have given him the information.
She recalled the utter solitude of the snow-bound farm--the heavy drifts--no human being but
Dick and herself--till that evening when the new snow was all hard frozen, and they two had
sleighed back under the moon to her own door.

What to do? She seemed to see her course.

"What is your name?" she asked him, endeavouring to speak in her ordinary voice, and bending
over the front of the cart, she spoke to the horse, "Quiet, Jack, quiet!"

"My name's John Dempsey, ma'am." He looked up, and then quickly withdrew his eyes. She saw
the twitching smile that he now could hardly restrain. By this time he had straightened the
reins, which she gathered up.

"It's curious," she said, "but you're not the first person who's mistaken me for that Mrs.
Delane. I knew something about her. I don't want to be mistaken for her."

"I see," said Dempsey.

"I would rather you didn't speak about it in the village--or anywhere. You see, one doesn't
like to be confused with some people. I didn't like Mrs. Delane."

The lad looked up grinning.

"She got divorced, didn't she?"

"I dare say. I knew very little about her. But, as I said, I don't want to be mistaken for her."

Then, tying the reins to the cart, she jumped down and stood beside him.

His hand went instinctively to the horse's mouth, holding the restive animal still.

"And I should be very much obliged to you if you would keep what you thought about me to yourself.
I don't want you to talk about it in the village or anywhere. Come up and see me--at the farm--and
I'll tell you why I dislike being mixed up with that woman--why, in fact, I should mind it
dreadfully. I can't explain now, but--"

The young man was fairly dazzled by the beauty of the sudden flush on her pale cheeks, of her
large pleading eyes, her soft voice. And this--as old Betts had only that afternoon told him--was
the lady engaged to his own superior officer, Captain Ellesborough, the Commandant of Ralstone
Camp, whom he heartily admired, and stood in considerable awe of! His vanity, of which he possessed
so large a share, was much tickled; but, also, his feelings were touched.

"Why, of course, ma'am, won't say anything. I didn't mean any harm."

"All right," said Rachel, scrambling back to her seat. "If you like to come up to-morrow morning,
I shall be pleased to see you. It's a bargain, mind!"

He saluted, smiling. She nodded to him, and drove off.

"Well, that's the rummiest go!" said the bewildered Dempsey to himself, as he walked towards
his bicycle. "Mistake be damned! She was Mrs. Delane, and what's she up to now with my captain?
And what the deuce was she doing at Tanner's?"

Never did a person feel himself more vastly important than Dempsey as he bicycled back to the
Ralstone camp, whence he had started in the morning, after the peace news, to go and see a
cousin living some distance beyond Great End Farm. To be his grandfather's grandson was much--but
this!

Rachel drove, with hands unconscious of the reins, along the road and up the farm lane leading
through her own fields. The world swam around her in the mist, but there, still in front of
her, lay the illuminated farm, a house of light standing in air. As she neared it, the front
door opened and sounds of singing and laughter came out.

The "Marseillaise"! Allons, enfants de la patrie!--Janet was playing it, singing vigorously
herself, and trying to teach the two girls the French words, a performance which broke down
every other minute in helpless laughter from all three. Meanwhile, Hastings, who had been standing
behind the singers, his hands in his pockets, a rare and shamefaced pleasure shining from his
care-worn face, thought he heard the cart, and looked out. Yes, it was the Missis, as he liked
to call Miss Henderson, and he ran down to meet her.

"Well, I suppose there were fine doings at Millsborough, Miss," he said, as he held the horse
for her to get down.

"Yes--there were a lot of people. It was very noisy."

"We thought you'd hear our noise, Miss, as far as the road! Miss Leighton, she's been keeping
us all alive. She took the girls to church--to the Thanksgiving Service, while I looked after
things."

"All right, Hastings," said Miss Henderson, in a voice that struck his ear strangely. "Thank
you. Will you take the cart?"

He thought as he led the horse away, "She's been overdoin' it again. The Cap'n will tell her so."

Rachel climbed the little slope to the front door. It seemed an Alp. Presently she stood on
the threshold of the sitting-room, in her thick fur coat, looking at the group round the piano.
Janet glanced round, laughing. "Come and join in!" And they all struck up "God Save the King"--a
comely group in the lamplight, Jenny and Betty lifting their voices lustily. But they seemed
to Rachel to be playing some silly game which she did not understand. She closed the door and
went upstairs to her own room. It was cold and dark. She lit a candle, and her own face, transformed,
looked at her from the glass on the dressing-table. She gave a weary, half-reflective sigh.
"Shall I be like that when I'm old?"

She took off her things, and changed mechanically into an afternoon dress, her mind, like a
hunted thing, running hither and thither all the time.

Presently she got up and locked the door. She must think--think--by herself.

It would be quite easy to defy Roger--quite easy to lie, and lie successfully, if only she
was sure of herself, and her own will to carry things through. Roger could prove nothing--or
that vulgar boy--or anybody. She had only to say, "I went to find Lucy Tanner, who was my friend--she
wasn't there--I was overtaken by the storm--and Dick Tanner looked after me till I could get home."

It was the most natural--the most plausible story. If Delane forced himself on George with
any vile tale, Ellesborough would probably give him in charge for molesting his former wife.
There was absolutely nothing to fear, if she handled the thing in a bold, common-sense way,
and told a consistent and clever lie.

And yet, she had weakly made appointments with both her tormentors!--made it plain to them
that she was afraid! She called herself a coward, and a fool--and then as she leant her head
against the side of her bed, the tears ran down her face, and her heart cried out for Ellesborough.

"How can I go on lying to him--now--and all my life?" It was the same cry as before, but more
intense, more passionate with every day's living. The need for lying had now doubled; yet her
will could less and less steel itself to it, because of sheer love and remorse towards the
man who loved her.

"He would forgive me. I know he would--I know he would!" she kept on murmuring to herself,
while her eyes rained in the semi-darkness.

Yes, but it would change everything! Their love--his feeling towards her--could never be the
same again. After Roger Delane--Dick Tanner. Why not another--and another? Would he not always
be watching her, dreading some new discovery! Suspecting her, even while he loved her?

No. She must choke off Delane--with money--the only way. And invent some story--some bribe,
too--for that odious young man who had caught her unawares.

So again she hardened herself, despairingly. It could not be allowed her--the balm and luxury
of confession! It was too dangerous. Her all was in it.

Meanwhile, the singing continued below. Janet had struck up "Tipperary," and the small flute-like
voices of the girls, supported by her harsher one, mounted joyously through every crevice of
the slightly-built house.

"It's a long, long way to Tipperary, And my heart's right there."

The beautiful tune, interwoven for our generation with all that is most poignant in its life,
beat on Rachel's nerves. It was being sung all over England that Armistice Day, as it had been
sung in the first days of the war, joyously, exultingly, yet with catching breath. There was
in it more than thousands of men and women dared to probe, whether of joy or sorrow. They sang
it, with a sob in the throat. To Rachel, also, sunk in her own terrors, it was almost unbearable.
The pure unspoilt passion of it--the careless, confident joy--seemed to make an outcast of
her, as she sat there in the dark, dragged back by the shock and horror of Delane's appearance
into the slime and slough of old memories, and struggling with them in vain. Yes, she was "damaged
goods"--she was unfit to marry George Ellesborough. But she would marry him! She set her teeth--clinging
to him with all the energy of a woman's deepening and maturing consciousness. She had been
a weak and self-willed child when she married Delane--when she spent those half miserable,
half wild days and nights with Dick Tanner. Now she trusted a good man--now she looked up and
adored. Her weakness was safe in the care of George Ellesborough's strength. Well, then, let
her fight for her love.

Presently Janet knocked at the door. The singing downstairs had ceased.

"Are you tired, Rachel? Can't I help you?"

"Just a bit tired. I'm resting. I'll be down directly."

       *       *       *       *       *

But the interruption had started fresh anxieties in her mind. She had paid the most perfunctory
attention to the few words Janet had said about Dempsey's call at the farm, two nights before.
She understood at the time that he had come to chatter about the murder, and was very glad
that she had been out of the way.

But now--what was it that he had said to Janet--and why had Janet said so little about his visit?

Instead of resting she walked incessantly up and down. This uncertainty about Janet teased
her; but after all it was nothing to that other mystery--how did Roger know?--and to the strange
and bewildering effect of the juxtaposition of the two men--their successive appearance in
the darkness within--what?--ten minutes?--a quarter of an hour?--while the cloud was on her
own brain--without apparently any connection between them--and relevance to each other. There
must have been some connection! And yet there had been no sign of any personal knowledge of
Roger Delane in Dempsey's talk; and no reference whatever to Dempsey in Delane's.

She went down to supper, very flushed and on edge. Little Jenny eyed her surreptitiously. For
the first time the child's raw innocence was disturbed or jealous. What did John Dempsey want
with calling on Miss Henderson--and why had he made a rather teasing mystery of it to her,
Jenny? "Wouldn't you like to know, Miss Inquisitive?" Yes, Jenny would like to know. Of course
Miss Henderson was engaged to Captain Ellesborough, and all that. But that was no reason why
she should carry off Jenny's "friend," as well as her own. Jenny's heart swelled within her
as she watched Miss Henderson from the other end of the table. Yes, of course, she was nice-looking,
and her clothes were nice. Jenny thought that she would get a new best dress soon, now that
peace was come; and a new hat with a high silk crown to match the dress. Dempsey had admired
a hat like that on a girl in the village. He had said it was "real smart." And to be "smart"
Jenny thought was to be happy.

After supper, Janet and the girls washed up and put all tidy for the night. Rachel worked at
accounts in the sitting-room. She had sold the last hay she had to spare wonderfully well,
and potatoes showed a good profit. Threshing charges were very high, and wages--appalling!
But on the whole, they were doing very well. Janet's Jersey cow had been expensive, but they
could afford her.

They had never yet drawn out so good an interim balance sheet without delight, and rosy dreams
for the future. Now her mood was leaden, and she pushed the papers aside impatiently. As she
was sitting with her hands round her knees, staring into the fire, or at the chair where Ellesborough
had sat while she told her story, Janet came into the room. She paused at the door, and Rachel
did not see her look of sudden alarm as she perceived Rachel's attitude of depression. Then
she came up to the fire. The two girls could be heard laughing overhead.

"So my cow's a good one?" she said, with her pleasant voice and smile.

"A beauty," said Rachel, looking up, and recapitulating the points and yield of the Jersey.

Janet gave a shrug--implying a proper scepticism.

"It doesn't seem to be quite as easy to tell lies about cows as about horses," she said, laughing;
"that's about all one can say. We'll hope for the best." Then--after a moment,--

"I never told you much about that man Dempsey's visit. Of course he came to see you. He thought
when he saw you at Millsborough that you were a Mrs. Delane he had seen in Canada. Were you
perhaps a relation of hers? I said I would ask you. Then I inquired how often he had seen Mrs.
Delane. He said twice--perhaps three times--at her home--at a railway station--and at a farm
belonging to a man called Tanner."

"Yes," said Rachel, indifferently. "I knew Lucy Tanner, his sister. She was an artist like
him. I liked them both."

There was silence. In Rachel's breast there was beating a painful tide of speech that longed
to find its way to freedom--but it was gripped and thrust back by her will. There was something
in Janet as in Ellesborough that wooed her heart, that seemed to promise help.

But nothing more passed, of importance. Janet, possessed by vague, yet, as they seemed to herself,
quite unreasonable anxieties, gave some further scornful account of Dempsey's murder talk,
to which Rachel scarcely listened; then she said, as she turned to take up her knitting,--

"I'm going over to-morrow to a little service--a Thanksgiving service--at Millsborough. I took
the girls to church to-day--but I love my own people!" Her face glowed a little.

"Unitarian service, you mean?"

"Yes--we've got a little 'cause' there, and a minister. The service will be about six, I think.
The girls will manage. The minister and his wife want me to stay to supper--but I shall be
back in good time."

"About ten?"

"Oh, yes--quite by then. I shall bicycle."

Through Rachel's mind there passed a thrill of relief. So Janet would be out of the way. One
difficulty removed. Now, to get rid of the girls?

       *       *       *       *       *

Rachel scarcely slept, and the November day broke grey and misty as before. After breakfast
she went out into the fields. Old Halsey was mole-catching in one of them. But instead of going
to inspect him and his results, she slipped through a tall hedge, and paced the road under
its shelter, looking for Dempsey.

On the stroke of eleven she saw him in the distance. He came up with the same look, half embarrassed,
half inclining to laugh, that he had worn the day before. Rachel, on the other hand, was entirely
at her ease, and the young man felt her at once his intellectual and social superior.

"You seem to have saved me and my horse from a tumble into that ditch last night," she said,
with a laugh, as she greeted him. "Why I turned faint like that I can't imagine. I do sometimes
when I'm tired. Well, now then--let us walk up the road a little."

With her hands in her pockets she led the way. In her neat serge suit and cap, she was the
woman-farmer--prosperous and competent--all over. Dempsey's thoughts threw back in bewilderment
to the fainting figure of the night before. He walked on beside her in silence.

"I wanted to tell you," said Miss Henderson calmly--"because I'm sure you're a nice fellow,
and don't want to hurt anybody's feelings--why I asked you to hold your tongue about Mrs. Delane.
In the first place, you're quite mistaken about myself. I was never at Mr. Tanner's farm--never
in that part of Canada; and the person you saw there--Mrs. Delane--was a very favourite cousin
of mine, and extraordinarily like me. When we were children everybody talked of the likeness.
She had a very sad story, and now--she's dead." The speaker's voice dropped. "I've been confused
with her before--and it's a great trouble to me. The confusion has done me harm, more than
once, and I'm very sensitive about it. So, as I said last night, I should be greatly obliged
if you would not only not spread the story, but deny it, whenever you can."

She looked at him sharply, and he coloured crimson.

"Of course," he stammered, "I should like to do anything you wish."

"I do wish it, and--" she paused a moment, as though to think--"and Captain Ellesborough wishes
it. I would not advise you, however, to say anything at all about it to him. But if you do
what we ask you, you may be sure we shall find some way--some substantial way--of showing that
we appreciate it."

They walked on, she with her eyes on the ground as though she were thinking out some plan for
his benefit--he puzzled and speechless.

"What do you want to do, now the war's over?" she said at last, with a smile, looking up.

"I suppose I want to settle down--somewhere--on land, if I had the money."

"Here?--or in Canada?"

"Oh, at home."

"I thought so. Well, Mr. Dempsey, Captain Ellesborough and I shall be quite ready to help you
in any scheme you take up. You understand?"

"That's awfully kind of you--but--"

"Quite ready," she repeated. "Let me know what your plans are when you've worked them out--and
I'll see what can be done." Then she stopped. There was a gate near into one of her own fields.
Their eyes met--hers absolutely cool and smiling--his wavering and excited.

"You understand?" she repeated.

"Oh, yes--I understand."

"And you agree?" she added, emphasizing the words.

"Oh, yes, I--I--agree."

"Well, then, that's all right--that's understood. A letter will always find me here. And now
I must get back to my work. Good-morning."

And with a nod, she slipped through the gate, and was half way across the fallow on the other
side of it before he had realized that their strange conversation was at an end.

XII

The vicar and his sister Eleanor were sitting at breakfast in the small Georgian house, which,
as the vicarage, played a still important part in the village of Ipscombe. The Church may be
in a bad way, as her own children declare; revolution may be in sight, as our English Bolshevists
love to believe--not too seriously; but meanwhile, if a stranger in any normal English village
wants to lay his finger on the central ganglion of its various activities, he will still look
for the church and the vicarage--or rectory, as the case may be. If the parson is bad or feeble,
the pulse of the village life will show it; and if he is energetic and self-devoted, his position
will give him a power in the community--power, tempered of course by the necessary revolts
and reactions which keep the currents of life flowing--not to be easily attained by other energetic
and self-devoted persons. The parson may still easily make himself a tyrant, but only to find,
in the language of the Greek poet, that it was "folly even to wish" to tyrannize.

The vicar had come downstairs that morning in a mood of depression, irritable--almost snappish
depression. His sister Eleanor had seldom seen him so unlike himself. Being an affectionate
sister, she was sorry for him; though, as she rightly guessed, it was that very news which
had brought such great relief of mind to herself which was almost certainly responsible for
her brother's gloom. Miss Henderson was engaged to Captain Ellesborough. There was therefore
no question of her becoming Mrs. Shenstone, and a weight was lifted from the spirits of the
vicar's sister. Towards Rachel, Eleanor Shenstone felt one of those instinctive antipathies
of life which are far more decisive than any of the ordinary causes of quarrel. Miss Shenstone
was thin, methodical, devoted; of small speech and great virtue. Such persons so securely anchored
and self-determined can have but small sympathy for the drifters of this world. And that Rachel
Henderson was--at least as compared with herself and her few cherished friends--morally and
religiously adrift, Miss Shenstone had decided after half an hour's conversation.

The vicar knew perfectly well that his sister was relieved. It was that which had secretly
affected a naturally sweet temper. He was suffering besides from a haunting sense of contrast
between these rainy November days, and the glowing harvest weeks in which he had worked like
a navvy for and with Rachel Henderson. It was over, of course. None of the nice things of life
ever came his way for long. But he did feel rather sorely that during his short spell of favour
with her, Miss Henderson had encouraged him a good deal. She had raised him up--only to cast
him down. He thought of her smiles, and her sudden softness, of the warm grip of her hand,
and the half mocking, half inviting look in her eyes, with the feeling of a child shut out
from a garden where he well knows the ripe apples are hanging; only not for him. The atmosphere
of sex which environed her--was it not that which had beguiled the vicar, while it had repelled
his sister? And yet Eleanor Shenstone did most honestly wish her brother to marry--only not--not
anything so tempting, troubling, and absorbing as Rachel Henderson.

"Haven't we a tiresome meeting to-night?" said the vicar with an impatient sigh, as he sat
languidly down to the couple of sardines which were all his sister had allowed him for breakfast.

"Yes--Miss Hall is coming to speak."

Miss Hall was a lady who spoke prodigiously on infant welfare, and had a way of producing a
great, but merely temporary effect on the mothers of the village. They would listen in a frightened
silence while she showed them on a blackboard the terrifying creatures that had their dwelling
in milk, and what a fly looks like when it is hideously--and in the mothers' opinion most unnecessarily--magnified.
But when she was gone came reaction. "How can she know aught about it--havin' none of her own?"
said the village contemptuously. None the less the village ways were yielding, insensibly,
little by little; and the Miss Halls were after all building better than they knew.

The vicar, however, always had to take the chair at Miss Hall's meetings, and he was secretly
sick and tired of babies, their weights, their foods, their feeding-bottles, and everything
concerned with them. His sister considered him and like a wise woman, offered him something
sweet to make up for the bitter.

"Do you think you could possibly take a note for me to Miss Leighton this morning--when you
go to see old Frant?"

"Old Frant" was a labourer on the point of death to whom the vicar was ministering.

He pricked up his ears.

"Great End's hardly in old Frant's direction."

Camouflage, of course. Miss Shenstone understood perfectly.

"It won't take you far out of your way. I want Miss Leighton to send those two girls to the
Armistice dance to-night if they'd like to come. Lady Alicia writes that several of her maids
are down with the flu, and she asks me to give away two or three more tickets."

"Why doesn't Lady Alicia let the servants manage the thing themselves when she gives them a
party? They ought to invite. I wouldn't be bossed if I were they," said the vicar, with vivacity.

"She's so particular about character, dear."

"So would they be. She hasn't been so very successful in her own case."

For the Shepherds' eldest daughter had just been figuring in a divorce case to the distress
of the Shepherds' neighbours.

Miss Shenstone showed patience.

"I'll have the note ready directly."

And when it was ready, the vicar took it like a lamb. He walked first to Great End, meditating
as he went on Miss Henderson's engagement. He had foreseen it, of course, since the day of
the Millsborough "rally." A fine fellow, no doubt--with the great advantage of khaki. But it
was to be hoped we were not going to be altogether overrun with Americans--carrying off English
women.

At the gate of the farm stood a cart into which two young calves had just been packed. Hastings
was driving it, and Rachel Henderson, who had just adjusted the net over the fidgety frightened
creatures, was talking to him.

She greeted Shenstone rather shyly. It was quite true that in the early stages of her acquaintance
with Ellesborough she had amused herself a good deal with the vicar. And in his note of congratulation
to her on her engagement, she had detected just the slightest touch of reproach.

"I wish I had guessed it sooner." That meant, perhaps--"Why did you make a fool of me?"

Meanwhile Miss Shenstone's note was duly delivered, and Rachel, holding it in her hand, opened
the wicket gate.

"Won't you come in?"

"Oh, no, I mustn't waste your time," said the vicar, with dignity. "Perhaps you'll give me
a verbal answer."

Rachel opened the note, and the vicar was puzzled by the look which crossed her face as she
read it. It was a look of relief--as though something fitted in.

"Very kind of Lady Alicia. Of course the girls shall come. They will be delighted. You really
won't come in? Then I'll walk to the road with you."

What was the change in her? The vicar perceived something indefinable; and before they had
walked half the distance to the road he had forgotten his own grievance. She looked ill. Janet
Leighton, meeting him in the village a few days before, had talked of her partner as "done
up." Was it the excitement of falling in love?--combined perhaps with the worry of leaving
her work and the career just begun?

He asked a few questions about her plans. She answered him very gently, with a subtle note
of apology in her voice; but yet, as it seemed to him, from rather far away. And when they
parted, he realized that he had never known more of her than an outer self, which offered but
little clue to the self within.

Rachel walked back to the farm with Miss Shenstone's note in her pocket. She had told the vicar
that her land-girls should certainly come to the Shepherds' servants' party--but she said nothing
about it to them--till Janet Leighton had safely bicycled away in the early afternoon. The
invitation, however, was a godsend. For Rachel had begun to realize that there was a good deal
of watching going on--watching of the farm, and watching over herself. She understood that
Halsey had been scared by some tramp or other whom he took for the ghost; and she saw that
Janet was unwilling that any one should be alone after dark in the farm. Nobody had talked
to her--Rachel--about it--no doubt by Ellesborough's wish--because she was supposed to be out
of sorts--run down. She had accepted the little conspiracy of silence as a proof of his tenderness,
and had obediently asked no questions.

And it had not yet occurred to her to connect the stories floating about the farm with Delane's
reappearance. The stunning fact of the reappearance, with all that it might mean to her, absorbed
her mind--for a few hours yet.

But as soon as Janet was safely off the premises, she hurried across to the shippen, where
Betty and Jenny were milking.

"Girls!--would you like to go to the Shepherds' dance to-night? I've got an invitation for you?"

Stupefaction--and delight! The invitations had been very sparing and select, and the two little
maidens had felt themselves Cinderellas indeed, all the sorer in their minds seeing that Dempsey
and Betty's young man were both going.

But frocks! Jenny at least had nothing suitable. Rachel at once offered a white frock. The
milking and dairy work were hurried through, and then came the dressing, as the dance began
at seven. Betty, knowing herself to be a beauty, except for her teeth, had soon finished. A
white blouse, a blue cotton skirt, a blue ribbon in her mop of brown hair--and she looked at
herself exultantly in Miss Henderson's glass. Jenny was much more difficult to please. She
was crimson with excitement, and the tip of her little red tongue kept slipping in and out.
But Rachel patted and pinned--in a kind of dream. Jenny's red hair, generally worn in the tightest
wisps and plaits, was brushed out till it stood like a halo round her face and neck, and she
was secretly afraid that Dempsey wouldn't know her.

Then Rachel wrapped them up in their land-army waterproofs, and saw them off, carrying an electric
torch to guide them safely through the bit of lane under the trees. But there was a moon rising,
and the fog was less.

"Ain't she just kind?--don't you just love her?" said Jenny ecstatically to Betty, as they
turned back to wave their farewells again to the figure standing in the doorway.

Betty assented. But they were both greatly astonished. For Rachel did not in general take much
personal notice of them.

They were no sooner out of sight than Rachel went to look at the clock in the kitchen. Ten
minutes to seven. Two hours to wait. How were they going to be got through?

She went out aimlessly into the farm-yard, where the farm buildings stood in a faintly luminous
mist, the hill-side behind them, and the climbing woods. To her left, across the fields ran
the road climbing to the miniature pass, whence it descended steeply to the plain beyond. And
on the further side of the road lay her own fields, with alternating bands of plough-land and
stubble, and the hedge-row trees standing ghostly and separate in the light haze.

She was alone in the farm, in all that landscape the only living thing at the moment, except
for the animals. A tense energy of will seemed to possess her. She was defending herself--defending
Ellesborough--and their joint lives. How was she going to do it? She didn't know. But the passion
in her blood would give her strength--would see her through.

In the old barn, the cows were munching peacefully. The air was sweet with their breath, and
with the hay piled in their cribs. Rachel wandered noiselessly amongst them, and they turned
their large eyes slowly to look at her, and the small lantern she carried. In the stables,
too, not a sound, but an occasional swishing and champing. Rachel hung up the lantern, and
sat down on a truss of hay, idly watching the rays of light striking up into the cross-beams
of the roof, and on the shining flanks of the horses. Her mind was going at a great speed.
And all in a moment--without any clear consciousness of the strange thoughts that had been
running through her brain--an intuition struck through her.

Roger!--it was he who had been playing the ghost--he who had been seen haunting the farm--who
had scared Halsey--Roger! come to spy upon her and her lover! Once the idea suggested itself,
she was certain of it--it must be true.

The appearance in the lane had been cleverly premeditated. She had been watched for days, perhaps
for weeks.

Ellesborough had been watched, too, no doubt.

She drew a shuddering breath. She was afraid of Roger Delane. From the early days of her marriage
she had been afraid of him. There was about him the incalculable something which means moral
insanity--abnormal processes of mind working through uncontrolled will. You could never reason
with or influence him, where his appetites or his passions were concerned. A mocking spirit
looked out upon you, just before his blow fell. He was a mere force--inhuman and sinister.

Well, she had got to fight it and tame it! She shut up the cow-house and stable, and stood
out awhile in the farm-yard, letting the mild wind play on her bare head and hot cheeks. The
moon was riding overhead. The night seemed to her very silent and mysterious--yet penetrated
by something divine to which she lifted her heart. What would Ellesborough say over there--in
his forester's hut, five miles beyond the hills, if he knew what she was doing--whom she was
expecting? She shut her eyes, and saw his lean, strong face, his look--

The church clock was striking, and surely--in the distance, the sound of an opening gate? She
hurried back to the house, and the sitting-room. The lamp was low. She revived it. She made
up the fire. She felt herself shivering with excitement, and she stooped over the fire, warming
her hands.

She had purposely left the front door unlocked. A hand tried the handle, turned it--a slow
step entered.

She went to the sitting-room door and threw it open--

"Come in here."

Roger Delane came in and shut the door behind him. They confronted each other.

"You've managed it uncommonly well," he said, at last. "You've dared it. Aren't you afraid of me?"

"Not the least. What do you want?"

They surveyed each other--with hatred, yet not without a certain passionate curiosity on both
sides. When Delane had last seen Rachel she was a pale and care-worn creature, her youth darkened
by suffering and struggle, her eyes still heavy with the tears she had shed for her lost baby.
He beheld her now rounded and full-blown, at the zenith of her beauty, and breathing an energy,
physical and mental, he had never yet seen in her. She had escaped him, and her life had put
out a new flower. He was suddenly possessed as he looked at her, both by the poisonous memory
of old desire, and by an intolerable sense of his impotence, and her triumph. And the physical
fever in his veins made self-control difficult.

On her side, she saw the ruin of a man. When she married him he had been a moral wreck. But
the physical envelope was still intact, still splendid. Now his clothes seemed to hang upon
a skeleton; the hollows in the temples and cheeks, the emaciation of the face and neck, the
scanty grey hair, struck horror, but it was a horror in which there was not a trace of sympathy
or pity. He had destroyed himself, and he would, if he could, destroy her. She read in him
the thirst for revenge. She had to baffle it, if she could.

As she defied him, indeed, she saw his hand steal to his coat-pocket, and it occurred to her
that the pocket might contain a revolver. But the thought only nerved her--gave her an almost
exultant courage.

"What do I want?" he repeated, at last with-drawing his eyes. "I'll tell you. I've come--like
Foch--to dictate to you certain terms, which you have only to accept. We had better sit down.
It will take time."

Rachel pointed to a chair. He took it, crossed one knee over the other, rested his arm on the
table near, and watched her with a sneering smile, while she seated herself.

He broke the silence.

"I confess you were very clever about Dick Tanner--and I was a precious fool! I never suspected."

"I have not the least idea what you mean."

"A lie!" he said, impetuously. "You were in Dick Tanner's house--staying with him alone--at
night--after I left you. You were seen there--by a man--a Canadian--from whom I had the story--only
two days ago. He doesn't know my name, nor I his. We met on the common, two nights ago, after
dark. And by the merest chance he was coming to the farm, and he began to talk of you. Then
this came out. But of course I always knew that it--or something like it--would come out. Your
puritanical airs never deceived me--for a moment."

"I suppose you are talking of John Dempsey?" The scorn in her voice enraged him.

"I know nothing about John Dempsey. Of course I can track the man who told me, if I want to--with
the greatest ease. He was coming here to call. He saw either you or your partner. And I shall
track him--if you force me."

She was silent--and he smiled.

"Assume, please, that I have my witness at hand. Well, then, he saw you alone--at night--in
Dick Tanner's charge, a few days apparently, after you and I quarrelled. What were you doing
there?"

"It was during that great snowstorm, I suppose," she said, in her most ordinary voice, taking
up her knitting. "I remember going over to the Tanners' to ask for something--and being snow-bound.
Lucy Tanner was always ready to help me--and be sorry for me."

At this he laughed out, and the note of the laugh dismayed her.

"Lucy Tanner? Yes, that's good. I thought you'd play her! Now, I'll tell you something. The
day after I left you, I was on the train going to Regina. We stopped a long time. I don't remember
why--at Medicine Hat--and walking up and down the platform was--Lucy Tanner! Does that surprise
you? She told me she couldn't stand the Manitoba climate, and was going to a friend at Kamloops
for the winter. Is that news to you?"

Rachel had turned white, but he saw no other sign of discomposure.

"Not at all. Naturally, I went over expecting to find her. But as you say, she was gone, and
Mr. Tanner drove me back, when the storm went down."

Then she threw down her knitting and faced him.

"What's the use of talking like this, Roger? You won't make anything out of this story you're
so proud of. Hadn't you better come to business? Why have you been spying on me, and dogging
me like this? You know, of course, I could give you in charge to-morrow, or I could get Captain
Ellesborough to do it. And I will--unless you give me your solemn promise to leave this place,
to go out of my life altogether, and stop molesting me in this scandalous way. Now, of course,
I understand who it is that has been prowling about the farm all these weeks. And I warn you
the police too know all about it, and are on the watch. They may have tracked you here to-night
for all I know."

"Not they! I passed one bobby fellow on the hill, going safely away north, as I came down.
I was scarcely three yards from him, and he never twigged. And the other's gone to Millsborough.
You could hardly be more alone, more entirely at my mercy--than you are at this moment, Miss
Henderson!" He laid an ironic emphasis on the name.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"All the same the people who live with me in this house will soon be back. I recommend you
to make haste. I ask you again--what is it you want?"

She had stood up pluckily--he admitted it. But, as he observed her closely it seemed to him
that the strain on her nerves was telling. She was beginning to look pinched, and her hand
as it lay beside her knitting shook.

"Well, I'll tell you," he said coolly. He took a half sheet of note-paper out of the breast-pocket
of his coat, drew the lamp on the table towards him, and looked at certain figures and notes
written on the paper.

"I went this morning in town to look up your uncle's will. Of course I remember all about that
old chap at Manchester. I often speculated on what he was going to leave you. Unfortunately
for me he lived just a little too long. But I find from the copy of the will that he left you--three--thousand--pounds.
Not bad, considering that you were never at all civil to him. But three thousand pounds is
more than you require to run this small farm on. You owe me damages for the injury you inflicted
on me by the loss of--first, your society; second, your financial prospects. I assess it at
five hundred pounds. Pay me that small sum, and--well, I engage to leave you henceforth to
the Captain,--and your conscience."

He bent forward across the table, his mocking eyes fixed intently upon her. There was silence
a moment--till she said:--

"And if I refuse?"

"Oh, well, then--" he lifted a paper-knife and balanced it on his hand as though considering--"I
shall of course have to work up my case. What do you call this man?--John Dempsey? A great
fool--but I dare say I shall get enough out of him. And then--well, then I propose to present
the story to Captain Ellesborough--for his future protection."

"He won't believe a word of it."

But her lips had blanched--her voice had begun to waver--and with a cruel triumph he saw that
he had won the day.

"I dare say not. That's for him to consider. But if I were you, I wouldn't put him to the test."

Silence again. He saw the fluttering of her breath. With a complete change of tone, he said,
smiling, in a low voice:--

"Rachel!--when did you begin to prefer Dick Tanner to me? No doubt you had a jolly time with
him. I suppose I can't undo the divorce--but you would never have got it, if I hadn't been
such an innocent."

She sprang up, and he saw that he had gone too far.

"If you say any more such things to me, you will get nothing from me--and you may either go--"
she pointed passionately to the door--"or you may sit there till my people come back--which
you like."

He looked at her, under his eyebrows, smiling mechanically--weighing the relative advantages
of prudence or violence. Prudence carried the day.

"You are just the same spitfire, I see, as you used to be! All right. I see you understand.
Well, now, how am I to get my money--my damages?" She turned away, and went quickly to an old
bureau that had been her uncle's. He watched her, exultant. It was all true, then. Dick Tanner
had been her lover, and Ellesborough knew nothing. He did not know whether to be the more triumphant
in her tacit avowal, or the more enraged by the testimony borne by her acquiescence to her
love for Ellesborough. He hated her; yet he had never admired her so much, as his eyes followed
her stooping over the drawers of the bureau, her beautiful head and neck in a warm glow of
firelight.

Then, suddenly, he began to cough. She, hunting for her cheque-book, took no notice at first.
But the paroxysm grew; it shook the very life out of him; till at last she stood arrested and
staring-while he fell back in his chair like a dead man, his eyes shut, his handkerchief to
his lips.

"Shall I--shall I get you some brandy?" she said, coldly. He nodded assent. She hurriedly looked
for her keys, and went to a cupboard in the kitchen, where Janet kept a half bottle of brandy
for medical use if needed.

He drank off what she brought--but it was some time before he recovered speech. When he did
it was in a low tone that made the words a curse:---

"That's your doing!"

Her only answer was a gesture.

"It is," he insisted, speaking in gasps. "You never showed me any real love--any forbearance.
You never cared for me--as you know I cared for you. You told me so once. You married me for
a home--and then you deserted--and betrayed me."

There was a guilty answer in her consciousness which made her speak without anger.

"I know my own faults very well. And now you must go--we can't either of us stand this any
more. Do you give me your solemn promise that you will trouble me no more---or the man I am
going to marry--if I do this for you?"

"Give me a piece of paper--" he said, huskily.

He wrote the promise, signed it, and pushed it to her. Then he carefully examined the self
cheque "to bearer" which she had written.

"Well, I dare say that will see me out--and bury me decently. I shall take my family down to
the sea. You know I've got a little girl--about three? Oh, I never told any lies about Anita.
I've married her now."

Rachel stood like a stone, without a word. Her one consuming anxiety was to see him gone, to
be done with him.

He rose slowly--with difficulty. And the cough seized him again. Rachel in a fevered exasperation
watched him clinging to the table for support. Would he die--or faint--then and there--and
be found by Janet, who must now be on her way home? She pressed brandy on him again. But he
pushed it away. "Let me be!" She could only wait.

When he could speak and move again, he put the cheque away in his pocket, and buttoned his
coat over it.

"Well, good-night." Then straightening himself, he fixed her with a pair of burning eyes. "Good-night.
Anita will be kind to me--when I die--Anita will be a woman to me. You were never kind--you
never thought of any one but yourself. Good-bye. Good luck!"

And walking uncertainly to the door, he opened it and was gone. She heard his slow steps in
the farmyard, and the opening of the wicket gate. Then all sounds died away.

For a few minutes she crouched sobbing over the fire, weeping for sheer nervous exhaustion.
Then the dread seized her of being caught in such a state by Janet, and she went upstairs,
locked her door, and threw herself on her bed. The bruise of an intolerable humiliation seemed
to spread through soul and body. She knew that for the first time she had confessed her wretched
secret which she had thought so wholly her own--and confessed it--horrible and degrading thought!--to
Roger Delane. Not in words indeed--but in act. No innocent woman would have paid the blackmail.
The dark room in which she lay seemed to be haunted by Delane's exultant eyes.

And the silence was haunted too by his last words. There arose in her a reluctant and torturing
pity for the wretched man who had been her husband; a pity, which passed on into a storm of
moral anguish. Her whole past life looked incredibly black to her as she lay there in the dark--stained
with unkindness, and selfishness, and sin.

Which saw her the more truly?--Roger, or Ellesborough?--the man who hated and cursed her, or
the man who adored her?

She was struggling, manoeuvring, fighting, to keep the truth from George Ellesborough. It was
quite uncertain whether she would succeed. Roger's word was a poor safeguard! But if she did,
the truth itself would only the more certainly pursue and beat her down.

And again, the utter yearning for confession and an unburdened soul came upon her intolerably.
The religious psychologist describes such a crisis as "conversion," or "conviction of sin,"
or the "working of grace." And he knows from long experience that it is the result in the human
soul not so much of a sense of evil, as of a vision of good. Goodness had been brought near
to Rachel in the personality--the tender self-forgetting trust--of George Ellesborough. It
was goodness, not fear--goodness, unconscious of any threatened wrong--that had pierced her
heart. Then a thought came to her. Janet!--Janet whose pure and loving life beside her made
yet another element in the spiritual forces that were pressing upon her.

She sprang to her feet. She would tell Janet everything--put her poor secret--her all--in Janet's
hands.

XIII

It was again a very still and misty night,--extraordinarily mild for the time of year. A singular
brooding silence held all the woodlands above Great End Farm. There was not a breath of wind.
Every dead branch that fell, every bird that moved, every mouse scratching among the fallen
beech leaves, produced sounds disproportionately clear and startling, and for the moment there
would be a rustle of disturbance, as though something or some one, in the forest heart, took
alarm. Then the deep waters of quiet closed again, and everything--except that watching presence--slept.

The hut in Denman Wood, which had formerly played a hospitable part as the scene of many a
Gargantuan luncheon to Colonel Shepherd's shooting parties, had long been an abandoned spot.
All the Colonel's keepers under fifty had gone to fight; and there was left only an old head
keeper, with one decrepit helper, who shot the scanty game which still survived on strict business
principles, to eke out the household rations of the big house. The Ipscombe woods were rarely
visited. They were a long way from the keeper's cottage, and the old man, depressed by the
difference between war and pre-war conditions, found it quite enough to potter round the stubbles
and turnips of the home farm when game had to be shot.

The paths leading through the underwood to the hut were now in these four years largely over-grown.
A place more hidden and forgotten it would have been difficult to find. And for this reason,
combined with its neighbourhood to Rachel Henderson's farm, Roger Delane had chosen to inhabit it.

It was the third night after his interview with his former wife. He reached the hut after dark,
by various by-paths over the wide commons stretching between it and X--the station at which
he now generally alighted. He carried in his pocket some evening newspapers, a new anthology,
and a novel. Owing to an injection of morphia--a habit to which he had only lately taken--he
felt unusually fit, and his brain was unusually alert. At the same time he had had a disagreeable
interview with a doctor that morning who had been insisting on Sanatorium treatment if the
remaining lung was to be preserved and his life prolonged. He did not want to prolong his life,
but only to avoid the beastliness of pain. It seemed to him that morphia--good stuff!--was
going to do that for him. Why hadn't he begun it before? But his brain was queer--he was conscious
of that. He had asked the doctor about some curious mental symptoms. The reply was that phthisis
was often accompanied by them.

Obsession--fixed ideas--in the medical sense: half of him, psychologically, was quite conscious
that the other half was under their influence. The sound self was observing the unsound self,
but apparently with no power over it. Otherwise how was it that he was here again, hiding like
a wild beast in a lair, less than a mile from Great End Farm, and Rachel Henderson?

He had found his way to London in the small hours of the day following his scene with Rachel,
intending to keep his promise, and let his former wife alone. The cashing of Rachel's cheque
had given him and Anita some agreeable moments; though Anita was growing disturbed that he
would not tell her where the money came from. They had found fresh lodgings in a really respectable
Bloomsbury street; they had both bought clothes, and little Netta had been rigged out. Delane
had magnificently compounded with his most pressing creditors, and had taken Anita to a theatre.
But he had been discontented with her appearance there. She had really lost all her good looks.
If it hadn't been for the kid--

And now, after this interval, his obsession had swooped upon him again. It was an obsession
of hate--which simply could not endure, when it came to the point, that Rachel Henderson should
vanish unscathed into the future of a happy marriage, while he remained the doomed failure
and outcast he knew himself to be. Rachel's implied confession rankled in him like a burn.
Tanner!--that wretched weakling, with his miserable daubs that nobody wanted to buy. So Rachel
had gone to him, as soon as she had driven her husband away, no doubt to complain of her ill-treatment,
to air her woes. The fellow had philandered round her some time, and had shown an insolent
and interfering temper once or twice towards himself. Yes!--he could imagine it all!--her flight,
and Tanner's maudlin sympathy--tears--caresses--the natural sequel. And then her pose of complete
innocence at the divorce proceedings--the Judge's remarks. Revolting hypocrisy! If Tanner had
been still alive, he would somehow have exposed him--somehow have made him pay. Lucky for him
he was drowned in that boat accident on Lake Nipissing! And no doubt Rachel thought that the
accident had made everything safe for her.

Every incident now, every phase of his conversation with her was assuming a monstrous and distorted
significance in his mind. How easily she had yielded on the subject of the money! He might
have asked a great deal more--and he would have got it. Very likely Ellesborough was well off--Yankees
generally were--and she knew that what she gave Delane as hush money would make very little
difference to her. Ellesborough no doubt would not look very closely into her shekels, having
sufficient of his own. Otherwise it might occur to him to wonder how she had got rid of that
£500. Would it pinch her? Probably, if all she had for capital was the old chap's legacy. Well--serve
her right--serve her, damned, doubly right! Ellesborough's kisses would make up.

These thoughts, after a momentary respite, held him in their grip as he walked London streets.
Suspicion of the past--ugly and venomous--flapped its black wings about him. Had Rachel ever
been faithful to him--even in the early days? She had made acquaintance with the Tanners very
soon after their marriage. Looking back, a number of small incidents and scenes poked their
heads out of the dead level of the past. Rachel and Tanner, discussing the Watts photograph
when Rachel first acquired it--Tanner's eager denunciatory talk--he called himself an "impressionist"--the
creature!--because he couldn't draw worth a cent--Rachel all smiles and deference. She had
never given him that sort of attention. Or Rachel at a housewarming in the next farm to his--Rachel
in a pale green dress, the handsomest woman there, dancing with Tanner--Rachel quarrelling
with him in the buggy on the way home, because he called Tanner a milksop--"He cares for beautiful
things, and you don't!--but that's no reason why you should abuse him."

And what about those weeks not very long after that dance, when he had gone off to the land-sale
at Edmonton (that was the journey, by the way, when he first saw Anita!), and Rachel had stayed
at home, with a girl friend, a girl they knew in Winnipeg? But that girl hadn't stayed all
the time. To do her justice, Rachel had made no secret of that. He remembered her attacking
him when he came home for having left her for three or four days quite alone. Why had he been
so long away? Probably a mere bluff--though he had been taken in by it at the time, and being
still in love with her, had done his best to appease her. But what had she been doing all the
time she was alone? In the light of what he knew now, she might have been doing anything. Was
the child his?

So, piece by piece, with no auditor but his own brain, shut in upon himself by the isolation
which his own life had forged for him, he built up a hideous indictment against the woman he
had once loved. He wished he had put off his interview with her till he had had time to think
things out more. As he came to realize how she had tricked and bested him, her offence became
incredibly viler than it seemed at first. He had let her off far too cheaply that night at
the farm. Scenes of past violence returned upon him, and the memory of them seemed to satisfy
a rising thirst. Especially the recollection of the divorce proceedings maddened him. His morbid
brain took hold on them with a grip that his will could not loosen. Her evidence--he had read
it in the Winnipeg newspapers--the remarks of the prating old judge--and of her cad of a lawyer--good
God! And all the time it was she who ought to have been in the dock, and he the accuser, if
he had known--if he hadn't been a trusting idiot, a bleating fool.

A brooding intensity of rage, as this inward process went on, gradually drowned in him every
other feeling and desire. The relief and amusement of the money and its spending were soon
over. He thought no more of it. Anita, and his child even--the child for whom he really cared--passed
out of his mind. As he sat drinking whisky in the dull respectable lodging, at night after
Anita had gone to bed, he felt the sinister call of those dark woods above Rachel's farm, and
tasted the sweetness of his new power to hurt her, now that she had paid him this blackmail,
and damned herself thereby--past help. She had threatened him. But what could she do--or the
Yankee fellow either? She had given the show away. As for his promise, when he had no right
to make it,--no right to allow such a woman to get off scot-free, with plenty of money and
a new lover.

So on the Thursday evening he took train for X. It was still the Armistice week. The London
streets were crowded with soldiers and young women of every sort and kind. He bought a newspaper
and read it in the train. It gave him a queer satisfaction--for one half of him was still always
watching the other--to discover that he could feel patriotic emotion like anybody else and
could be thrilled by the elation of Britain's victory--his victory. He read the telegrams,
the positions on the Rhine assigned to the Second Army, and the Fourth,--General Plumer General
Rawlinson--General F.--Gad! he used to know the son of that last old fellow at King's.

Then he fell to his old furtive watching of the people on the platform, the men getting in
and out of the train. At any moment he might fall in with one of his old Cambridge acquaintances,
in one of these smart officers, with their decorations and their red tabs. But in the first
place they wouldn't travel in this third class where he was sitting--not till the war was over.
And in the next, he was so changed--had taken indeed such pains to be--that it was long odds
against his being recognized. Eleven years, was it, since he left Cambridge? About.

At X. he got out. The ticket collector noticed him for that faint touch of a past magnificence
that still lingered in his carriage and gait; but there were so many strangers about that he
was soon forgotten.

He passed under a railway arch and climbed a hill, the hill on which he had met Dempsey. At
the top of the hill he left the high-road for a grass track across the common. There was just
enough light from a declining moon to show him where he was. The common was full of dark shapes--old
twisted thorns, and junipers, and masses of tall grass--shapes which often seemed to him to
be strargely alive, the silent but conscious witnesses of his passage.

The wood was very dark. He groped his way through it with difficulty and found the hut. Once
inside it, he fastened the door with a wooden bar he had himself made, and turned on his electric
torch. Bit by bit in the course of his night visits he had accumulated a few necessary stores--some
firewood, a few groceries hidden in a corner, a couple of brown blankets, and a small box of
tools. A heap of dried bracken in a corner, raised on a substratum of old sacks, had often
served him for a bed; and when he had kindled a wood fire in the rough grate of loose bricks
where Colonel Shepherd's keepers had been accustomed to warm the hot meat stews sent up for
the shooting luncheons, and had set out his supper on the upturned fragment of an old box which
had once held meal for pheasants, he had provided at least what was necessary for his night
sojourn. This food he had brought with him; a thermos bottle full of hot coffee, with slices
of ham, cheese, and bread; and he ate it with appetite, sitting on a log beside the fire, and
pleasantly conscious as he looked round him, like the Greek poet of long ago, of that "cuteness"
of men which conjures up housing, food, and fire in earth's loneliest places. Outside that
small firelit space lay the sheer silence of the wood, broken once or twice by the call and
flight of an owl past the one carefully darkened window of the hut, or by the mysterious sighing
and shuddering which, from time to time, would run through the crowded stems and leafless branches.

A queer "hotel" this, for mid-November! He might, if he had chosen, have been amusing himself,
tant bien que mal, in one or other of those shabby haunts,--bars, night-clubs, dancing-rooms,
to which his poverty and his moeurs condemned him, while his old comrades, the lads he had
been brought up with at school and college, guardsmen, Hussars, and the rest, were holding
high revel for the Peace at the Ritz or the Carlton; he might even, as far as money was concerned,
now that he had bagged his great haul from Rachel, have been supping himself at the Ritz, if
he had only had time to exchange his brother-in-law's old dress suit, which Marianne had passed
on to him, for a new one, and if he could have made up his mind to the possible recognitions
and rebuffs such a step would have entailed. As it was, he preferred his warm hiding-place
in the heart of the woods, coupled with this exultant sense of an unseen and mysterious power
which was running, like alcohol, through his nerves.

Real alcohol, however, was not wanting to his solitary meal. He drenched his coffee in the
cognac he always carried about with him, and then, cigarette in hand, he fell back on the heap
of bracken to read a while. The novel he sampled and threw away; the anthology soon bored him;
and he spent the greater part of two hours lying on his back, smoking and thinking--till it
was safe to assume that the coast was clear round Great End Farm. About ten o'clock, he slipped
noiselessly out of the hut, after covering up the fire to wait for his return, and hiding as
far as he could the other traces of his occupation. The damp mist outside held all the wood
stifled, and the darkness was profound. Stepping as lightly as possible, and using his torch
with the utmost precaution, he gradually made his way to the edge of the wood, and the lip
of the basin beyond it. On the bare down was enough faint moonlight to see by, and he extinguished
his little lantern before leaving the wood. Below him were the dim outlines of the farm, a
shadowy line of road beyond, and, as it were, a thicker fold of darkness, to mark the woods
on the horizon. There was not a light anywhere; the village was invisible, and he listened
for a long time without hearing anything but the rush of a distant train.

Ah!--Yes, there was a sound down there in the hollow--footsteps, reverberating in the silence.
He bent his head listening intently. The footsteps seemed to approach the farm, then the sounds
ceased, till suddenly, on the down slope below him, he saw something moving. He threw back
his head with a quiet laugh.

The Ipscombe policeman, no doubt, on his round. Would he come up the hill? Hardly, on such
a misty night. If not, his retreating steps on the farm lane would soon tell his departure.

In a few minutes, indeed, the click of an opening gate could be clearly heard through the mist,
and afterwards, steps. They grew fainter and fainter. All clear!

Choosing a circuitous route, Delane crept down the hill, and reached a spot on the down-side
rather higher than the farm enclosure, from which the windows of the farm-house could be seen.
There was a faint light in one of the upper two--in which he had some reason to think was that
of Rachel's bedroom. It seemed to him the window was open; he perceived something like the
swaying of a blind inside it. The night was marvellously mild for mid-November; and he remembered
Rachel's old craving for air, winter and summer.

The light moved, there was a shadow behind the blind, and suddenly the window was thrown up
widely, and a pale figure--a woman's figure--stood in the opening. Rachel, no doubt! Delane
slipped behind a thorn growing on the bare hill-side. His heart thumped. Instinctively his
hand groped for something in his pocket. If she had guessed that he was there--within twenty
yards of her!

Then, as he watched the faint apparition in the mist, it roused in him a fresh gust of rage.
Rachel, the sentimental Rachel, unable to sleep--Rachel, happy and serene, thinking of her
lover--the lies of her divorce all forgotten--and the abominable Roger cut finally out of her
life!--

The figure disappeared; he heard the closing of the window, which was soon dark. Then he crept
down to the farm wall, and round the corner of it to that outer cart-shed, where he had bound
up his bleeding hand on the night when Halsey--silly ass!--had seen the ghost. He did not dare
to smoke lest spark or smell might betray him. Sitting on a heap of sacks in a sheltered corner,
his hands hanging over his knees, he spent some long time brooding and pondering--conscious
all the while of the hidden and silent life of the house and farm at his back. By now he fancied
he understood the evening ways of the place. The two girls went up to bed first, about nine;
the two ladies, about an hour later; and the farm bailiff as a rule did not sleep on the premises,
though there was a bed in the loft over the stable which could be used on occasion. That window,
too, through which he had watched the pair of lovers, when the Yankee discovered him--that
also seemed to fit into a scheme.

Yes!--the Yankee had discovered him. His start, his sudden movement as though to make a rush
at the window, had shown it. Meanwhile Delane had not waited for developments. Quick as thought
he had made for one of those sunken climbing lanes in which the chalk downs of the district
abound, a lane which lay to the south of the farm, while the green terraced path connected
with the ghost-story lay to the north of it. No doubt there had been a hue and cry, a search
of the farm and its immediate neighbourhood. But the night was dark and the woods wide. Once
in their shelter, he had laughed at pursuit. What had the Yankee said to Rachel? And since
he had stopped her in the lane, what had Rachel been saying to the Yankee? Had she yet explained
that the face he had seen at the window--supposing always that he had told her what he had
seen--and why shouldn't he?--was not the face of a casual tramp or lunatic, but the face of
a discarded husband, to whom all the various hauntings and apparitions at the farm had been
really due?

That was the question--the all-important question. Clearly some one--Ellesborough probably--had
given a warning to the police. On what theory?--ghost?--tramp?--or husband?

Or had Rachel just held her tongue, and had the Yankee been led to believe that the husband--for
Rachel must have owned up about the husband though she did call herself Miss Henderson!--was
still some thousands of miles away--in Canada--safely dead and buried, as far as Rachel was
concerned?

On the whole, he thought it most probable that Rachel had held her tongue about his reappearance.
If she had thought it worth while to bribe him so heavily, it was not very likely that she
would now herself have set the American on the track of a secret which she so evidently did
not want an expectant bridegroom to know.

The American--d--n him! A furious and morbid jealousy rushed upon the man crouching under the
cart-shed. The world was rapidly reducing itself for him to these two figures--figures of hate--figures
against whom he felt himself driven by a kind of headlong force, a force of destruction.

How still the farm was, except for the movements of the cows inside the shippen at his back,
or of the horses in the stable! Rachel, no doubt, was now asleep. In the old days he had often--enviously--watched
her tumble asleep as soon as her bright head was on the pillow; while in his own case sleep
had been for years a difficult business.

Somebody else would watch her sleeping now.

Yes, if he, the outcast, allowed it. And again the frenzied sense of power swept through him.
If he allowed it! It rested with him.

The following day, Ellesborough set out in the early afternoon for Great End Farm, the bearer
of much news.

The day was dark and rainy, with almost a gale blowing, but his spirits had never been higher.
The exultation of the great victory, the incredible Victory, seemed to breathe upon him from
the gusty wind, to be driving the westerly clouds, and crying in all the noises of the woods.
Was it really over?--over and done?--the agony of these four years--the hourly sacrifice of
irreplaceable life--the racking doubt as to the end--the torturing question in every conscious
mind--"Is there a God in Heaven--a God who cares for men--or is there not?"

He could have shouted the answer aloud--"There is--there is a God! And He is just."

Faith was natural to him, and nourished on his new happiness no less than on the marvellous
issue of the war, it set his heart singing on this dull winter's day. How should he find her?
Threshing, perhaps, in the big barn, and he would turn to, and work with her and the girls
till work was done, and they could have the sitting-room to themselves, and he could tell her
all his news. Janet--the ever-kind and thoughtful Janet--would see to that. The more he saw
of the farm-life the more he admired Janet. She was a little slow. She was not clever; and
she had plenty of small prejudices which amused him. But she was the salt of the earth. Trust
her--lean upon her--she would never let you down. And now he was going to trust his beloved
to her--for a while.

Yes--Rachel and the girls, they were all in the high barn, feeding the greedy maw of the threshing
machine; a business which strained muscles and backs, and choked noses and throats with infinitesimal
particles of oil and the fine flying chaff. He watched Rachel a few minutes as she lifted and
pitched--a typical figure of a New Labour, which is also a New Beauty, on this old earth. Then
he drew her away, flung off his tunic, and took her place, while she, smiling and panting,
her hands on her sides, leaned against the wall, and watched in her turn.

Then when the engine stopped, and the great hopper full of grain lay ready for the miller,
they found themselves alone in the barn for a minute. The girls and Janet had gone to milk,
and Hastings with them. There was a lantern in the barn, which showed Rachel in the swirl of
the corn dust with which the barn was full, haloed and golden with it, like a Homeric goddess
in a luminous cloud. Her soft brown head, her smile, showing the glint of her white teeth,
her eyes, and all the beauty of her young form, in its semi-male dress--they set his blood
on fire. Just as he was, in his khaki shirt-sleeves, he came to her, and took her in his arms.
She clung to him passionately.

"I thought you were never coming."

It was one of the reproaches that have no sting.

"I came at the first moment. I left a score of things undone."

"Have you been thinking of me?"

"Always--always. And you?"

"Nearly always," she said teasingly. "But I have been making up my accounts."

"Avaricious woman!--thinking of nothing but money. Dear--I have several bits of news for you.
But let me wash!" He held out his hands--"I am not fit to touch you!"

She disengaged herself quietly.

"What news?"

"Some letters first," he said, smiling. "A budget and a half--mostly for you, from all my home
people. Can you face it?"

"In reply to your cable?"

"My most extravagant cable! On the top of course of sacks of letters!"

"Before we were engaged?"

He laughed as he thrust his arms into his tunic.

"My mother seems to have guessed from my very first mention of you."

"But--she doesn't know yet?" said Rachel, slowly.

They had passed out of the range of the lantern. He could not see her face, could only just
hear her voice.

"No, not yet, dear. My last long letter should reach her next week."

Her hand lay close in his as they groped their way to the door. When he unlatched it they came
out into the light of a stormy sunset. The rain had momentarily ceased, and there were fiery
lines of crimson burning their way through the black cloud masses in the western sky. The red
light caught Rachel's face and hair. But even so, it seemed to him that she was pale.

"I say--you've done too much threshing!" he said with energy. "Don't do any more--get an extra
man."

"Can't find one," she said, laughing at him, but rather languidly. "I'll go and get the tea ready."

He went off to wash, and when he entered the sitting-room a little later, she too was fresh
and neat again, in a new frock of some soft bluish-green stuff, which pleased his eye amazingly.
Outside, the sunset was dying rapidly, and at a sign from her, he drew down the blinds over
the two windows, and pulled the curtains close. He stood at the window looking at the hill-side
for a moment with the blind in his hand. He was recalling the face he had seen, of which neither
he nor any one else had yet said a word to Rachel; recalling also his talk with one of the
Millsborough police the day before. "Nothing more heard of him, Captain. Oh, we get queer people
about these hills sometimes. It's a very lonely bit of country. Why, a year ago, we were hunting
a couple of German prisoners about these commons for days!"

"Any more ghosts?" he said lightly, glancing round at Rachel, as he drew the curtains across.

"Not that I know of. Come and have your tea."

He took a cup from her hand, and leaning against the chimney surveyed the room with a radiant
face. Then he stooped over her and said:--

"I love this little room! Don't you?"

She made a restless movement.

"I don't know. Why do you love it?"

"As if you didn't know!" Their eyes met, his intense and passionate,--hers, less easy to read.
"Darling, I have some other news for you. I think you'll like it--though it'll separate us
for a little."

And drawing a letter from his pocket, he handed it to her. It was a letter from the American
Headquarters, offering him immediate work in the American Intelligence Department at Coblentz.

"Some friends of mine there, seem to have been getting busy about me. You see I know German
pretty well."

And he explained to her that as a boy he had spent a year in Germany before going to Yale.
She scarcely listened, so absorbed was she in the official letter.

"When must you go?" she said at last, looking up.

"At the end of next week, I'm afraid."

"And how long will it be?"

"That I don't know. But three or four months certainly. It will put off our wedding, dearest,
a bit. But you'd like me to go, wouldn't you? I should be at the hub of things."

The colour rushed into her cheeks.

"Must you go?"

Her manner amazed him. He had expected that one so ambitious and energetic in her own way of
life would have greeted his news with eagerness. The proposal was really a great compliment
to him--and a great chance.

"I don't see how I could refuse it," he said with an altered countenance. "Indeed--I don't
think I could."

She dropped her face into her hands, and stared into the fire. In some trouble of mind, he
knelt down beside her, and put his arm round her.

"I'll write every day. It won't be long, darling."

She shook her head, and he felt a shudder run through her.

"It's silly of me--I don't know why--but--I'm just afraid--"

"Afraid of what?"

She smiled at him tremulously--but he saw the tears in her eyes.

"I told you--I can't always help it. I'm a fool, I suppose--but--"

Then she threw her arms round his neck--murmuring in his ear: "You'll have time to think--when
you're away from me--that it was a great pity--you ever asked me."

He kissed and scolded her, till she smiled again. Afterwards she made a strong effort to discuss
the thing reasonably. Of course he must go--it would be a great opening--a great experience.
And they would have all the more time to consider their own affairs. But all the evening afterwards
he felt in some strange way that he had struck her a blow from which she was trying in vain
to rally. Was it all the effect of her suffering at that brute's hands--aided by the emotion
and strain of the recent scenes between herself and him?

As for her, when she turned back from the gate where she had bid him good-bye, she saw Janet
in the doorway waiting for her almost with a sense of exasperation. She had not yet said one
word to Janet. That plunge was all to take!

XIV

Rachel woke the following morning in that dreary mood when all the colour and the glamour seem
to have been washed out of life, and the hopes and dreams which keep up a perpetual chatter
in every normal mind are suddenly dumb.

How was she going to face Ellesborough's long absence? It had been recently assumed between
them that he would be very soon released from his forestry post, that the infantry commission
he had been promised would come to nothing, now the Armistice was signed, and that in a very
few weeks they would be free to think only of themselves and their own future. This offer of
Intelligence work at the American Headquarters had changed everything.

In ten days, if nothing happened, he would be gone, and she would be left behind to grapple
alone with Roger--who might at any moment torment her again; with the presence of Dempsey,
who was thinking of settling in the village, and for whom she would be called upon very soon
to fulfil the hopes she had raised in him; and finally, with the struggle and misery in her
own mind.

But something must happen. As she was dressing by candle-light in the winter dawn, her thoughts
were rushing forward--leaping some unexplored obstacles lying in the foreground--to a possible
marriage before Ellesborough went to France; just a quiet walk to a registry office, without
any fuss or any witness but Janet. If she could reach that haven, she would be safe; and this
dumb fever of anxiety, this terrified conviction that in the end Fate would somehow take him
from her, would be soothed away.

But how to reach it? For there was now between them, till they also were revealed and confessed,
a whole new series of events: not only the Tanner episode, but Delane's reappearance, her interview
with him, her rash attempt to silence Dempsey. By what she had done in her bewilderment and
fear, in order to escape the penalty of frankness, she might only--as she was now beginning
to perceive--have stumbled into fresh dangers. It was as though she stood on the friable edge
of some great crater, some gulf of destruction, on which her feet were perpetually slipping
and sinking, and only Ellesborough's hold could ultimately save her.

And Janet's--Janet's first. Rachel's thought clung to her, as the shipwrecked Southern sailor
turns to his local saint to intercede for him with the greater spiritual lights. Janet's counsel
and help--she knew she must ask for them--that it was the next step. Yet she had been weakly
putting it off day by day. And through this mist of doubt and dread, there kept striking all
the time, as though quite independent of it, the natural thoughts of a woman in love.

