Our readers will have the kindness to suppose our hero, Mr. Sponge, shot out of an omnibus
at the sign of the Cat and Compasses, in the full rurality of grass country, sprinkled with
fallows and turnip-fields. We should state that this unwonted journey was a desire to pay a
visit to Mr. Benjamin Buckram, the horse-dealer's farm at Scampley, distant some mile and a
half from where he was set down, a space that he now purposed travelling on foot.

Mr. Benjamin Buckram was a small horse-dealer--small, at least, when he was buying, though
great when he was selling. It would do a youngster good to see Ben filling the two capacities.
He dealt in second hand, that is to say, past mark of mouth horses; but on the present occasion,
Mr. Sponge sought his services in the capacity of a letter rather than a seller of horses.
Mr. Sponge wanted to job a couple of plausible-looking horses, with the option of buying them,
provided he (Mr. Sponge) could sell them for more than he would have to give Mr. Buckram, exclusive
of the hire. Mr. Buckram's job price, we should say, was as near twelve pounds a month, containing
twenty-eight days, as he could screw, the hirer, of course, keeping the animals.

Scampley is one of those pretty little suburban farms, peculiar to the north and north-west
side of London--farms varying from fifty to a hundred acres of well-manured, gravelly soil;
each farm with its picturesque little buildings, consisting of small, honey-suckled, rose-entwined
brick houses, with small, flat, pan-tiled roofs, and lattice-windows; and, hard by, a large
hay-stack, three times the size of the house, or a desolate barn, half as big as all the rest
of the buildings. From the smallness of the holdings, the farmhouses are dotted about as thickly,
and at such varying distances from the roads, as to look like inferior 'villas,' falling out
of rank; most of them have a half-smart, half-seedy sort of look.

The rustics who cultivate them, or rather look after them, are neither exactly town nor country.
They have the clownish dress and boorish gait of the regular 'chaws,' with a good deal of the
quick, suspicious, sour sauciness of the low London resident. If you can get an answer from
them at all, it is generally delivered in such a way as to show that the answerer thinks you
are what they call 'chaffing them,' asking them what you know.

These farms serve the double purpose of purveyors to the London stables, and hospitals for
sick, overworked, or unsaleable horses. All the great job-masters and horse-dealers have these
retreats in the country, and the smaller ones pretend to have, from whence, in due course,
they can draw any sort of an animal a customer may want, just as little cellarless wine-merchants
can get you any sort of wine from real establishments--if you only give them time.

There was a good deal of mystery about Scampley. It was sometimes in the hands of Mr. Benjamin
Buckram, sometimes in the hands of his assignees, sometimes in those of his cousin, Abraham
Brown, and sometimes John Doe and Richard Roe were the occupants of it.

Mr. Benjamin Buckram, though very far from being one, had the advantage of looking like a respectable
man. There was a certain plump, well-fed rosiness about him, which, aided by a bright-coloured
dress, joined to a continual fumble in the pockets of his drab trousers, gave him the air of
a 'well-to-do-in-the-world' sort of man. Moreover, he sported a velvet collar to his blue coat,
a more imposing ornament than it appears at first sight. To be sure, there are two sorts of
velvet collars--the legitimate velvet collar, commencing with the coat, and the adopted velvet
collar, put on when the cloth one gets shabby.

Buckram's was always the legitimate velvet collar, new from the first, and, we really believe,
a permanent velvet collar, adhered to in storm and in sunshine, has a very money-making impression
on the world. It shows a spirit superior to feelings of paltry economy, and we think a person
would be much more excusable for being victimized by a man with a good velvet collar to his
coat, than by one exhibiting that spurious sign of gentility--a horse and gig.

The reader will now have the kindness to consider Mr. Sponge arriving at Scampley.

'Ah, Mr. Sponge!' exclaimed Mr. Buckram, who, having seen our friend advancing up the little
twisting approach from the road to his house through a little square window almost blinded
with Irish ivy, out of which he was in the habit of contemplating the arrival of his occasional
lodgers, Doe and Roe. 'Ah, Mr. Sponge!' exclaimed he, with well-assumed gaiety; 'you should
have been here yesterday; sent away two sich osses--perfect 'unters--the werry best I do think
I ever saw in my life; either would have bin the werry oss for your money. But come in, Mr.
Sponge, sir, come in,' continued he, backing himself through a little sentry-box of a green
portico, to a narrow passage which branched off into little rooms on either side.

As Buckram made this retrograde movement, he gave a gentle pull to the wooden handle of an
old-fashioned wire bell-pull in the midst of buggy, four-in-hand, and other whips, hanging
in the entrance, a touch that was acknowledged by a single tinkle of the bell in the stable-yard.

They then entered the little room on the right, whose walls were decorated with various sporting
prints chiefly illustrative of steeple-chases, with here and there a stunted fox-brush, tossing
about as a duster. The ill-ventilated room reeked with the effluvia of stale smoke, and the
faded green baize of a little round table in the centre was covered with filbert-shells and
empty ale-glasses. The whole furniture of the room wasn't worth five pounds.

Mr. Sponge, being now on the dealing tack, commenced in the poverty-stricken strain adapted
to the occasion. Having deposited his hat on the floor, taken his left leg up to nurse, and
given his hair a backward rub with his right hand, he thus commenced:

'Now, Buckram,' said he, 'I'll tell you how it is. I'm deuced hard-up--regularly in Short's
Gardens. I lost eighteen 'undred on the Derby, and seven on the Leger, the best part of my
year's income, indeed; and I just want to hire two or three horses for the season, with the
option of buying, if I like; and if you supply me well, I may be the means of bringing grist
to your mill; you twig, eh?'

'Well, Mr. Sponge,' replied Buckram, sliding several consecutive half-crowns down the incline
plane of his pocket. 'Well, Mr. Sponge, I shall be happy to do my best for you. I wish you'd
come yesterday, though, as I said before, I jest had two of the neatest nags--a bay and a grey--not
that colour makes any matter to a judge like you; there's no sounder sayin' than that a good
oss is not never of a bad colour; only to a young gemman, you know, it's well to have 'em smart,
and the ticket, in short; howsomever, I must do the best I can for you, and if there's nothin'
in that tickles your fancy, why, you must give me a few days to see if I can arrange an exchange
with some other gent; but the present is like to be a werry haggiwatin' season; had more happlications
for osses nor ever I remembers, and I've been a dealer now, man and boy, turned of eight-and-thirty
years; but young gents is whimsical, and it was a young 'un wot got these, and there's no sayin'
but he mayn't like them--indeed, one's rayther difficult to ride--that's to say, the grey,
the neatest of the two, and he may come back, and if so, you shall have him; and a safer, sweeter
oss was never seen, or one more like to do credit to a gent: but you knows what an oss is,
Mr. Sponge, and can do justice to me, and I should like to put summut good into your hands--that
I should.'

With conversation, or rather with balderdash, such as this, Mr. Buckram beguiled the few minutes
necessary for removing the bandages, hiding the bottles, and stirring up the cripples about
to be examined, and the heavy flap of the coach-house door announcing that all was ready, he
forthwith led the way through a door in a brick wall into a little three-sides of a square
yard, formed of stables and loose boxes, with a dilapidated dove-cote above a pump in the centre;
Mr. Buckram, not growing corn, could afford to keep pigeons.

CHAPTER III

PETER LEATHER

Nothing bespeaks the character of a dealer's trade more than the servants and hangers-on of
the establishment. The civiler in manner, and the better they are 'put on,' the higher the
standing of the master, and the better the stamp of the horses.

Those about Mr. Buckram's were of a very shady order. Dirty-shirted, sloggering, baggy-breeched,
slangey-gaitered fellows, with the word 'gin' indelibly imprinted on their faces. Peter Leather,
the head man, was one of the fallen angels of servitude. He had once driven a duke--the Duke
of Dazzleton--having nothing whatever to do but dress himself and climb into his well-indented
richly fringed throne, with a helper at each horse's head to 'let go' at a nod from his broad
laced three-cornered hat. Then having got in his cargo (or rubbish, as he used to call them),
he would start off at a pace that was truly terrific, cutting out this vehicle, shooting past
that, all but grazing a third, anathematizing the 'buses, and abusing the draymen. We don't
know how he might be with the queen, but he certainly drove as though he thought nobody had
any business in the street while the Duchess of Dazzleton wanted it. The duchess liked going
fast, and Peter accommodated her. The duke jobbed his horses and didn't care about pace, and
so things might have gone on very comfortably, if Peter one afternoon hadn't run his pole into
the panel of a very plain but very neat yellow barouche, passing the end of New Bond Street,
which having nothing but a simple crest--a stag's head on the panel--made him think it belonged
to some bulky cit, taking the air with his rib, but who, unfortunately, turned out to be no
less a person than Sir Giles Nabem, Knight, the great police magistrate, upon one of whose
myrmidons in plain clothes, who came to the rescue, Peter committed a most violent assault,
for which unlucky casualty his worship furnished him with rotatory occupation for his fat calves
in the 'H. of C.,' as the clerk shortly designated the House of Correction. Thither Peter went,
and in lieu of his lace-bedaubed coat, gold-gartered plushes, stockings, and buckled shoes,
he was dressed up in a suit of tight-fitting yellow and black-striped worsteds, that gave him
the appearance of a wasp without wings. Peter Leather then tumbled regularly down the staircase
of servitude, the greatness of his fall being occasionally broken by landing in some inferior
place. From the Duke of Dazzleton's, or rather from the tread-mill, he went to the Marquis
of Mammon, whom he very soon left because he wouldn't wear a second-hand wig. From the marquis
he got hired to the great Irish Earl of Coarsegab, who expected him to wash the carriage, wait
at table, and do other incidentals never contemplated by a London coachman. Peter threw this
place up with indignation on being told to take the letters to the post. He then lived on his
'means' for a while, a thing that is much finer in theory than in practice, and having about
exhausted his substance and placed the bulk of his apparel in safe keeping, he condescended
to take a place as job coachman in a livery-stable--a 'horses let by the hour, day, or month'
one, in which he enacted as many characters, at least made as many different appearances, as
the late Mr. Mathews used to do in his celebrated 'At Homes.' One day Peter would be seen ducking
under the mews' entrance in one of those greasy, painfully well-brushed hats, the certain precursors
of soiled linen and seedy, most seedy-covered buttoned coats, that would puzzle a conjuror
to say whether they were black, or grey, or olive, or invisible green turned visible brown.
Then another day he might be seen in old Mrs. Gadabout's sky-blue livery, with a tarnished,
gold-laced hat, nodding over his nose; and on a third he would shine forth in Mrs. Major-General
Flareup's cockaded one, with a worsted shoulder-knot, and a much over-daubed light drab livery
coat, with crimson inexpressibles, so tight as to astonish a beholder how he ever got into
them. Humiliation, however, has its limits as well as other things; and Peter having been invited
to descend from his box--alas! a regular country patent leather one, and invest himself in
a Quaker-collared blue coat, with a red vest, and a pair of blue trousers with a broad red
stripe down the sides, to drive the Honourable old Miss Wrinkleton, of Harley Street, to Court
in a 'one oss pianoforte-case,' as he called a Clarence, he could stand it no longer, and,
chucking the nether garments into the fire, he rushed frantically up the area-steps, mounted
his box, and quilted the old crocodile of a horse all the way home, accompanying each cut with
an imprecation such as 'me make a guy of myself!' (whip) 'me put on sich things!' (whip, whip)
'me drive down Sin Jimses-street!' (whip, whip, whip), 'I'd see her ---- fust!' (whip, whip,
whip), cutting at the old horse just as if he was laying it into Miss Wrinkleton, so that by
the time he got home he had established a considerable lather on the old nag, which his master
resenting a row ensued, the sequel of which may readily be imagined. After assisting Mrs. Clearstarch,
the Kilburn laundress, in getting in and taking out her washing, for a few weeks, chance at
last landed him at Mr. Benjamin Buckram's, from whence he is now about to be removed to become
our hero Mr. Sponge's Sancho Panza, in his fox-hunting, fortune-hunting career, and disseminate
in remote parts his doctrines of the real honour and dignity of servitude. Now to the inspection.

Peter Leather, having a peep-hole as well as his master, on seeing Mr. Sponge arrive, had given
himself an extra rub over, and covered his dirty shirt with a clean, well-tied, white kerchief,
and a whole coloured scarlet waistcoat, late the property of one of his noble employers, in
hopes that Sponge's visit might lead to something. Peter was about sick of the suburbs, and
thought, of course, that he couldn't be worse off than where he was.

'Here's Mr. Sponge wants some osses,' observed Mr. Buckram, as Leather met them in the middle
of the little yard, and brought his right arm round with a sort of military swing to his forehead;
'what 'ave we in?' continued Buckram, with the air of a man with so many horses that he didn't
know what were in and what were out.

'Vy we 'ave Rumbleton in,' replied Leather, thoughtfully, stroking down his hair as he spoke,
'and we 'ave Jack o'Lanthorn in, and we 'ave the Camel in, and there's the little Hirish oss
with the sprig tail--Jack-a-Dandy, as I calls him, and the Flyer will be in to-night, he's
just out a hairing, as it were, with old Mr. Callipash.'

'Ah, Rumbleton won't do for Mr. Sponge,' observed Buckram, thoughtfully, at the same time letting
go a tremendous avalanche of silver down his trouser pocket, 'Rumbleton won't do,' repeated
he, 'nor Jack-a-Dandy nouther.'

'Why, I wouldn't commend neither on 'em,' replied Peter, taking his cue from his master, 'only
ven you axes me vot there's in, you knows vy I must give you a cor-rect answer, in course.'

'In course,' nodded Buckram.

Leather and Buckram had a good understanding in the lying line, and had fallen into a sort
of tacit arrangement that if the former was staunch about the horses he was at liberty to make
the best terms he could for himself. Whatever Buckram said, Leather swore to, and they had
established certain signals and expressions that each understood.

'I've an unkimmon nice oss,' at length observed Mr. Buckram, with a scrutinizing glance at
Sponge, 'and an oss in hevery respect werry like your work, but he's an oss I'll candidly state,
I wouldn't put in every one's 'ands, for, in the fust place, he's wery walueous, and in the
second, he requires an ossman to ride; howsomever, as I knows that you can ride, and if you
doesn't mind taking my 'ead man,' jerking his elbow at Leather, 'to look arter him, I wouldn't
mind 'commodatin' on you, prowided we can 'gree upon terms.'

'Well, let's see him,' interrupted Sponge, 'and we can talk about terms after.'

'Certainly, sir, certainly,' replied Buckram, again letting loose a reaccumulated rush of silver
down his pocket. 'Here, Tom! Joe! Harry! where's Sam?' giving the little tinkler of a bell
a pull as he spoke.

'Sam be in the straw 'ouse,' replied Leather, passing through a stable into a wooden projection
beyond, where the gentleman in question was enjoying a nap.

'Sam!' said he, 'Sam!' repeated he, in a louder tone, as he saw the object of his search's
nose popping through the midst of the straw.

'What now?' exclaimed Sam, starting up, and looking wildly around; 'what now?' repeated he,
rubbing his eyes with the backs of his hands.

'Get out Ercles,' said Leather, sotto voce.

The lad was a mere stripling--some fifteen or sixteen, years, perhaps--tall, slight, and neat,
with dark hair and eyes, and was dressed in a brown jacket--a real boy's jacket, without laps,
white cords, and top-boots. It was his business to risk his neck and limbs at all hours of
the day, on all sorts of horses, over any sort of place that any person chose to require him
to put a horse at, and this he did with the daring pleasure of youth as yet undaunted by any
serious fall. Sam now bestirred himself to get out the horse. The clambering of hoofs presently
announced his approach.

Whether Hercules was called Hercules on account of his amazing strength, or from a fanciful
relationship to the famous horse of that name, we know not; but his strength and his colour
would favour either supposition. He was an immense, tall, powerful, dark brown, sixteen hands
horse, with an arched neck and crest, well set on, clean, lean head, and loins that looked
as if they could shoot a man into the next county. His condition was perfect. His coat lay
as close and even as satin, with cleanly developed muscle, and altogether he looked as hard
as a cricket-ball. He had a famous switch tail, reaching nearly to his hocks, and making him
look less than he would otherwise have done.

Mr. Sponge was too well versed in horse-flesh to imagine that such an animal would be in the
possession of such a third-rate dealer as Buckram, unless there was something radically wrong
about him, and as Sam and Leather were paying the horse those stable attentions that always
precede a show out, Mr. Sponge settled in his own mind that the observation about his requiring
a horseman to ride him, meant that he was vicious. Nor was he wrong in his anticipations, for
not all Leather's whistlings, or Sam's endearings and watchings, could conceal the sunken,
scowling eye, that as good as said, 'you'd better keep clear of me.'

Mr. Sponge, however, was a dauntless horseman. What man dared he dared, and as the horse stepped
proudly and freely out of the stable, Mr. Sponge thought he looked very like a hunter. Nor
were Mr. Buckram's laudations wanting in the animal's behalf.

'There's an 'orse!' exclaimed he, drawing his right hand out of his trouser pocket, and flourishing
it towards him. 'If that 'orse were down in Leicestersheer,' added he, 'he'd fetch three 'under'd
guineas. Sir Richard would 'ave him in a minnit--that he would!' added he, with a stamp of
his foot as he saw the animal beginning to set up his back and wince at the approach of the
lad. (We may here mention by way of parenthesis, that Mr. Buckram had brought him out of Warwicksheer
for thirty pounds, where the horse had greatly distinguished himself, as well by kicking off
sundry scarlet swells in the gaily thronged streets of Leamington, as by running away with
divers others over the wide-stretching grazing grounds of Southam and Dunchurch.)

But to our story. The horse now stood staring on view: fire in his eye, and vigour in his every
limb. Leather at his head, the lad at his side. Sponge and Buckram a little on the left.

'W--h--o--a--a--y, my man, w--h--o--a--a--y,' continued Mr. Buckram, as a liberal show of the
white of the eye was followed by a little wince and hoist of the hind quarters on the nearer
approach of the lad.

'Look sharp, boy,' said he, in a very different tone to the soothing one in which he had just
been addressing the horse. The lad lifted up his leg for a hoist. Leather gave him one as quick
as thought, and led on the horse as the lad gathered up his reins. They then made for a large
field at the back of the house, with leaping-bars, hurdles, 'on and offs,' 'ins and outs,'
all sorts of fancy leaps scattered about. Having got him fairly in, and the lad having got
himself fairly settled in the saddle he gave the horse a touch with the spur as Leather let
go his head, and after a desperate plunge or two started off at a gallop.

'He's fresh,' observed Mr. Buckram confidentially to Mr. Sponge, 'he's fresh--wants work, in
short--short of work--wouldn't put every one on him--wouldn't put one o' your timid cocknified
chaps on him, for if ever he were to get the hupper 'and, vy I doesn't know as 'ow that we
might get the hupper 'and o' him, agen, but the playful rogue knows ven he's got a workman
on his back--see how he gives to the lad though he's only fifteen, and not strong of his hage
nouther,' continued Mr. Buckram, 'and I guess if he had sich a consternation of talent as you
on his back, he'd wery soon be as quiet as a lamb--not that he's wicious--far from it, only
play--full of play, I may say, though to be sure, if a man gets spilt it don't argufy much
whether it's done from play or from wice.'

During this time the horse was going through his evolutions, hopping over this thing, popping
over that, making as little of everything as practice makes them do.

Having gone through the usual routine, the lad now walked the glowing coated snorting horse
back to where the trio stood. Mr. Sponge again looked him over, and still seeing no exception
to take to him, bid the lad get off and lengthen the stirrups for him to take a ride. That
was the difficulty. The first two minutes always did it. Mr. Sponge, however, nothing daunted,
borrowed Sam's spurs, and making Leather hold the horse by the head till he got well into the
saddle, and then lead him on a bit; he gave the animal such a dig in both sides as fairly threw
him off his guard, and made him start away at a gallop, instead of standing and delivering,
as was his wont.

Away Mr. Sponge shot, pulling him about, trying all his paces, and putting him at all sorts
of leaps.

