GALLEGHER AND OTHER STORIES

BY

RICHARD HARDING DAVIS

With Illustrations by Charles Dana Gibson

COPYRIGHT, 1891, BY CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

TO MY MOTHER

CONTENTS

GALLEGHER: A NEWSPAPER STORY

A WALK UP THE AVENUE

MY DISREPUTABLE FRIEND, MR. RAEGEN

THE OTHER WOMAN

THE TRAILER FOR ROOM NO. 8

"THERE WERE NINETY AND NINE"

A WALK UP THE AVENUE

He came down the steps slowly, and pulling mechanically at his gloves.

He remembered afterwards that some woman's face had nodded brightly to him from a passing brougham,
and that he had lifted his hat through force of habit, and without knowing who she was.

He stopped at the bottom of the steps, and stood for a moment uncertainly, and then turned
toward the north, not because he had any definite goal in his mind, but because the other way
led toward his rooms, and he did not want to go there yet.

He was conscious of a strange feeling of elation, which he attributed to his being free, and
to the fact that he was his own master again in everything. And with this he confessed to a
distinct feeling of littleness, of having acted meanly or unworthily of himself or of her.

And yet he had behaved well, even quixotically. He had tried to leave the impression with her
that it was her wish, and that she had broken with him, not he with her.

He held a man who threw a girl over as something contemptible, and he certainly did not want
to appear to himself in that light; or, for her sake, that people should think he had tired
of her, or found her wanting in any one particular. He knew only too well how people would
talk. How they would say he had never really cared for her; that he didn't know his own mind
when he had proposed to her; and that it was a great deal better for her as it is than if he
had grown out of humor with her later. As to their saying she had jilted him, he didn't mind
that. He much preferred they should take that view of it, and he was chivalrous enough to hope
she would think so too.

He was walking slowly, and had reached Thirtieth Street. A great many young girls and women
had bowed to him or nodded from the passing carriages, but it did not tend to disturb the measure
of his thoughts. He was used to having people put themselves out to speak to him; everybody
made a point of knowing him, not because he was so very handsome and well-looking, and an over-popular
youth, but because he was as yet unspoiled by it.

But, in any event, he concluded, it was a miserable business. Still, he had only done what
was right. He had seen it coming on for a month now, and how much better it was that they should
separate now than later, or that they should have had to live separated in all but location
for the rest of their lives! Yes, he had done the right thing--decidedly the only thing to do.

He was still walking up the Avenue, and had reached Thirty-second Street, at which point his
thoughts received a sudden turn. A half- dozen men in a club window nodded to him, and brought
to him sharply what he was going back to. He had dropped out of their lives as entirely of
late as though he had been living in a distant city. When he had met them he had found their
company uninteresting and unprofitable. He had wondered how he had ever cared for that sort
of thing, and where had been the pleasure of it. Was he going back now to the gossip of that
window, to the heavy discussions of traps and horses, to late breakfasts and early suppers?
Must he listen to their congratulations on his being one of them again, and must he guess at
their whispered conjectures as to how soon it would be before he again took up the chains and
harness of their fashion? He struck the pavement sharply with his stick. No, he was not going back.

She had taught him to find amusement and occupation in many things that were better and higher
than any pleasures or pursuits he had known before, and he could not give them up. He had her
to thank for that at least. And he would give her credit for it too, and gratefully. He would
always remember it, and he would show in his way of living the influence and the good effects
of these three months in which they had been continually together.

He had reached Forty-second Street now. Well, it was over with, and he would get to work at
something or other. This experience had shown him that he was not meant for marriage; that
he was intended to live alone. Because, if he found that a girl as lovely as she undeniably
was palled on him after three months, it was evident that he would never live through life
with any other one. Yes, he would always be a bachelor. He had lived his life, had told his
story at the age of twenty-five, and would wait patiently for the end, a marked and gloomy
man. He would travel now and see the world. He would go to that hotel in Cairo she was always
talking about, where they were to have gone on their honeymoon; or he might strike further
into Africa, and come back bronzed and worn with long marches and jungle fever, and with his
hair prematurely white. He even considered himself, with great self-pity, returning and finding
her married and happy, of course. And he enjoyed, in anticipation, the secret doubts she would
have of her later choice when she heard on all sides praise of this distinguished traveller.

And he pictured himself meeting her reproachful glances with fatherly friendliness, and presenting
her husband with tiger-skins, and buying her children extravagant presents.

This was at Forty-fifth Street.

Yes, that was decidedly the best thing to do. To go away and improve himself, and study up
all those painters and cathedrals with which she was so hopelessly conversant.

He remembered how out of it she had once made him feel, and how secretly he had admired her
when she had referred to a modern painting as looking like those in the long gallery of the
Louvre. He thought he knew all about the Louvre, but he would go over again and locate that
long gallery, and become able to talk to her understandingly about it.

And then it came over him like a blast of icy air that he could never talk over things with
her again. He had reached Fifty-fifth Street now, and the shock brought him to a standstill
on the corner, where he stood gazing blankly before him. He felt rather weak physically, and
decided to go back to his rooms, and then he pictured how cheerless they would look, and how
little of comfort they contained. He had used them only to dress and sleep in of late, and
the distaste with which he regarded the idea that he must go back to them to read and sit and
live in them, showed him how utterly his life had become bound up with the house on Twenty-seventh
Street.

"Where was he to go in the evening?" he asked himself, with pathetic hopelessness, "or in the
morning or afternoon for that matter?" Were there to be no more of those journeys to picture-galleries
and to the big publishing houses, where they used to hover over the new book counter and pull
the books about, and make each other innumerable presents of daintily bound volumes, until
the clerks grew to know them so well that they never went through the form of asking where
the books were to be sent? And those tete-a-tete luncheons at her house when her mother was
upstairs with a headache or a dressmaker, and the long rides and walks in the Park in the afternoon,
and the rush down town to dress, only to return to dine with them, ten minutes late always,
and always with some new excuse, which was allowed if it was clever, and frowned at if it was
common-place--was all this really over?

Why, the town had only run on because she was in it, and as he walked the streets the very
shop windows had suggested her to him--florists only existed that he might send her flowers,
and gowns and bonnets in the milliners' windows were only pretty as they would become her;
and as for the theatres and the newspapers, they were only worth while as they gave her pleasure.
And he had given all this up, and for what, he asked himself, and why?

He could not answer that now. It was simply because he had been surfeited with too much content,
he replied, passionately. He had not appreciated how happy he had been. She had been too kind,
too gracious. He had never known until he had quarrelled with her and lost her how precious
and dear she had been to him.

He was at the entrance to the Park now, and he strode on along the walk, bitterly upbraiding
himself for being worse than a criminal--a fool, a common blind mortal to whom a goddess had
stooped.

He remembered with bitter regret a turn off the drive into which they had wandered one day,
a secluded, pretty spot with a circle of box around it, and into the turf of which he had driven
his stick, and claimed it for them both by the right of discovery. And he recalled how they
had used to go there, just out of sight of their friends in the ride, and sit and chatter on
a green bench beneath a bush of box, like any nursery maid and her young man, while her groom
stood at the brougham door in the bridle-path beyond. He had broken off a sprig of the box
one day and given it to her, and she had kissed it foolishly, and laughed, and hidden it in
the folds of her riding-skirt, in burlesque fear lest the guards should arrest them for breaking
the much-advertised ordinance.

And he remembered with a miserable smile how she had delighted him with her account of her
adventure to her mother, and described them as fleeing down the Avenue with their treasure,
pursued by a squadron of mounted policemen.

This and a hundred other of the foolish, happy fancies they had shared in common came back
to him, and he remembered how she had stopped one cold afternoon just outside of this favorite
spot, beside an open iron grating sunk in the path, into which the rain had washed the autumn
leaves, and pretended it was a steam radiator, and held her slim gloved hands out over it as
if to warm them.

How absurdly happy she used to make him, and how light-hearted she had been! He determined
suddenly and sentimentally to go to that secret place now, and bury the engagement ring she
had handed back to him under that bush as he had buried his hopes of happiness, and he pictured
how some day when he was dead she would read of this in his will, and go and dig up the ring,
and remember and forgive him. He struck off from the walk across the turf straight toward this
dell, taking the ring from his waistcoat pocket and clinching it in his hand. He was walking
quickly with rapt interest in this idea of abnegation when he noticed, unconsciously at first
and then with a start, the familiar outlines and colors of her brougham drawn up in the drive
not twenty yards from their old meeting-place. He could not be mistaken; he knew the horses
well enough, and there was old Wallis on the box and young Wallis on the path.

He stopped breathlessly, and then tipped on cautiously, keeping the encircling line of bushes
between him and the carriage. And then he saw through the leaves that there was some one in
the place, and that it was she. He stopped, confused and amazed. He could not comprehend it.
She must have driven to the place immediately on his departure. But why? And why to that place
of all others?

He parted the bushes with his hands, and saw her lovely and sweet- looking as she had always
been, standing under the box bush beside the bench, and breaking off one of the green branches.
The branch parted and the stem flew back to its place again, leaving a green sprig in her hand.
She turned at that moment directly toward him, and he could see from his hiding-place how she
lifted the leaves to her lips, and that a tear was creeping down her cheek.

Then he dashed the bushes aside with both arms, and with a cry that no one but she heard sprang
toward her.

Young Van Bibber stopped his mail phaeton in front of the club, and went inside to recuperate,
and told how he had seen them driving home through the Park in her brougham and unchaperoned.

"Which I call very bad form," said the punctilious Van Bibber, "even though they are engaged."

MY DISREPUTABLE FRIEND, MR. RAEGEN

Rags Raegen was out of his element. The water was his proper element-- the water of the East
River by preference. And when it came to "running the roofs," as he would have himself expressed
it, he was "not in it."

On those other occasions when he had been followed by the police, he had raced them toward
the river front and had dived boldly in from the wharf, leaving them staring blankly and in
some alarm as to his safety. Indeed, three different men in the precinct, who did not know
of young Raegen's aquatic prowess, had returned to the station-house and seriously reported
him to the sergeant as lost, and regretted having driven a citizen into the river, where he
had been unfortunately drowned. It was even told how, on one occasion, when hotly followed,
young Raegen had dived off Wakeman's Slip, at East Thirty-third Street, and had then swum back
under water to the landing-steps, while the policeman and a crowd of stevedores stood watching
for him to reappear where he had sunk. It is further related that he had then, in a spirit
of recklessness, and in the possibility of the policeman's failing to recognize him, pushed
his way through the crowd from the rear and plunged in to rescue the supposedly drowned man.
And that after two or three futile attempts to find his own corpse, he had climbed up on the
dock and told the officer that he had touched the body sticking in the mud. And, as a result
of this fiction, the river-police dragged the river-bed around Wakeman's Slip with grappling
irons for four hours, while Rags sat on the wharf and directed their movements.

But on this present occasion the police were standing between him and the river, and so cut
off his escape in that direction, and as they had seen him strike McGonegal and had seen McGonegal
fall, he had to run for it and seek refuge on the roofs. What made it worse was that he was
not in his own hunting-grounds, but in McGonegal's, and while any tenement on Cherry Street
would have given him shelter, either for love of him or fear of him, these of Thirty-third
Street were against him and "all that Cherry Street gang," while "Pike" McGonegal was their
darling and their hero. And, if Rags had known it, any tenement on the block was better than
Case's, into which he first turned, for Case's was empty and untenanted, save in one or two
rooms, and the opportunities for dodging from one to another were in consequence very few.
But he could not know this, and so he plunged into the dark hall- way and sprang up the first
four flights of stairs, three steps at a jump, with one arm stretched out in front of him,
for it was very dark and the turns were short. On the fourth floor he fell headlong over a
bucket with a broom sticking in it, and cursed whoever left it there. There was a ladder leading
from the sixth floor to the roof, and he ran up this and drew it after him as he fell forward
out of the wooden trap that opened on the flat tin roof like a companion-way of a ship. The
chimneys would have hidden him, but there was a policeman's helmet coming up from another companion-way,
and he saw that the Italians hanging out of the windows of the other tenements were pointing
at him and showing him to the officer. So he hung by his hands and dropped back again. It was
not much of a fall, but it jarred him, and the race he had already run had nearly taken his
breath from him. For Rags did not live a life calculated to fit young men for sudden trials
of speed.

He stumbled back down the narrow stairs, and, with a vivid recollection of the bucket he had
already fallen upon, felt his way cautiously with his hands and with one foot stuck out in
front of him. If he had been in his own bailiwick, he would have rather enjoyed the tense excitement
of the chase than otherwise, for there he was at home and knew all the cross-cuts and where
to find each broken paling in the roof-fences, and all the traps in the roofs. But here he
was running in a maze, and what looked like a safe passage-way might throw him head on into
the outstretched arms of the officers.

And while he felt his way his mind was terribly acute to the fact that as yet no door on any
of the landings had been thrown open to him, either curiously or hospitably as offering a place
of refuge. He did not want to be taken, but in spite of this he was quite cool, and so, when
he heard quick, heavy footsteps beating up the stairs, he stopped himself suddenly by placing
one hand on the side of the wall and the other on the banister and halted, panting. He could
distinguish from below the high voices of women and children and excited men in the street,
and as the steps came nearer he heard some one lowering the ladder he had thrown upon the roof
to the sixth floor and preparing to descend. "Ah!" snarled Raegen, panting and desperate, "youse
think you have me now, sure, don't you?" It rather frightened him to find the house so silent,
for, save the footsteps of the officers, descending and ascending upon him, he seemed to be
the only living person in all the dark, silent building.

He did not want to fight.

He was under heavy bonds already to keep the peace, and this last had surely been in self-defence,
and he felt he could prove it. What he wanted now was to get away, to get back to his own people
and to lie hidden in his own cellar or garret, where they would feed and guard him until the
trouble was over. And still, like the two ends of a vise, the representatives of the law were
closing in upon him. He turned the knob of the door opening to the landing on which he stood,
and tried to push it in, but it was locked. Then he stepped quickly to the door on the opposite
side and threw his shoulder against it. The door opened, and he stumbled forward sprawling.
The room in which he had taken refuge was almost bare, and very dark; but in a little room
leading from it he saw a pile of tossed-up bedding on the floor, and he dived at this as though
it was water, and crawled far under it until he reached the wall beyond, squirming on his face
and stomach, and flattening out his arms and legs. Then he lay motionless, holding back his
breath, and listening to the beating of his heart and to the footsteps on the stairs. The footsteps
stopped on the landing leading to the outer room, and he could hear the murmur of voices as
the two men questioned one another. Then the door was kicked open, and there was a long silence,
broken sharply by the click of a revolver.

"Maybe he's in there," said a bass voice. The men stamped across the floor leading into the
dark room in which he lay, and halted at the entrance. They did not stand there over a moment
before they turned and moved away again; but to Raegen, lying with blood-vessels choked, and
with his hand pressed across his mouth, it seemed as if they had been contemplating and enjoying
his agony for over an hour. "I was in this place not more than twelve hours ago," said one
of them easily. "I come in to take a couple out for fighting. They were yelling 'murder' and
'police,' and breaking things; but they went quiet enough. The man is a stevedore, I guess,
and him and his wife used to get drunk regular and carry on up here every night or so. They
got thirty days on the Island."

"Who's taking care of the rooms?" asked the bass voice. The first voice said he guessed "no
one was," and added: "There ain't much to take care of, that I can see." "That's so," assented
the bass voice. "Well," he went on briskly, "he's not here; but he's in the building, sure,
for he put back when he seen me coming over the roof. And he didn't pass me, neither, I know
that, anyway," protested the bass voice. Then the bass voice said that he must have slipped
into the flat below, and added something that Raegen could not hear distinctly, about Schaffer
on the roof, and their having him safe enough, as that red-headed cop from the Eighteenth Precinct
was watching on the street. They closed the door behind them, and their footsteps clattered
down the stairs, leaving the big house silent and apparently deserted. Young Raegen raised
his head, and let his breath escape with a great gasp of relief, as when he had been a long
time under water, and cautiously rubbed the perspiration out of his eyes and from his forehead.
It had been a cruelly hot, close afternoon, and the stifling burial under the heavy bedding,
and the excitement, had left him feverishly hot and trembling. It was already growing dark
outside, although he could not know that until he lifted the quilts an inch or two and peered
up at the dirty window-panes. He was afraid to rise, as yet, and flattened himself out with
an impatient sigh, as he gathered the bedding over his head again and held back his breath
to listen. There may have been a minute or more of absolute silence in which he lay there,
and then his blood froze to ice in his veins, his breath stopped, and he heard, with a quick
gasp of terror, the sound of something crawling toward him across the floor of the outer room.
The instinct of self-defence moved him first to leap to his feet, and to face and fight it,
and then followed as quickly a foolish sense of safety in his hiding-place; and he called upon
his greatest strength, and, by his mere brute will alone, forced his forehead down to the bare
floor and lay rigid, though his nerves jerked with unknown, unreasoning fear. And still he
heard the sound of this living thing coming creeping toward him until the instinctive terror
that shook him overcame his will, and he threw the bed-clothes from him with a hoarse cry,
and sprang up trembling to his feet, with his back against the wall, and with his arms thrown
out in front of him wildly, and with the willingness in them and the power in them to do murder.

The room was very dark, but the windows of the one beyond let in a little stream of light across
the floor, and in this light he saw moving toward him on its hands and knees a little baby
who smiled and nodded at him with a pleased look of recognition and kindly welcome.

The fear upon Raegen had been so strong and the reaction was so great that he dropped to a
sitting posture on the heap of bedding and laughed long and weakly, and still with a feeling
in his heart that this apparition was something strangely unreal and menacing.

But the baby seemed well pleased with his laughter, and stopped to throw back its head and
smile and coo and laugh gently with him as though the joke was a very good one which they shared
in common. Then it struggled solemnly to its feet and came pattering toward him on a run, with
both bare arms held out, and with a look of such confidence in him, and welcome in its face,
that Raegen stretched out his arms and closed the baby's fingers fearfully and gently in his own.

He had never seen so beautiful a child. There was dirt enough on its hands and face, and its
torn dress was soiled with streaks of coal and ashes. The dust of the floor had rubbed into
its bare knees, but the face was like no other face that Rags had ever seen. And then it looked
at him as though it trusted him, and just as though they had known each other at some time
long before, but the eyes of the baby somehow seemed to hurt him so that he had to turn his
face away, and when he looked again it was with a strangely new feeling of dissatisfaction
with himself and of wishing to ask pardon. They were wonderful eyes, black and rich, and with
a deep superiority of knowledge in them, a knowledge that seemed to be above the knowledge
of evil; and when the baby smiled at him, the eyes smiled too with confidence and tenderness
in them that in some way frightened Rags and made him move uncomfortably. "Did you know that
youse scared me so that I was going to kill you?" whispered Rags, apologetically, as he carefully
held the baby from him at arm's length. "Did you?" But the baby only smiled at this and reached
out its hand and stroked Rag's cheek with its fingers. There was something so wonderfully soft
and sweet in this that Rags drew the baby nearer and gave a quick, strange gasp of pleasure
as it threw its arms around his neck and brought the face up close to his chin and hugged him
tightly. The baby's arms were very soft and plump, and its cheek and tangled hair were warm
and moist with perspiration, and the breath that fell on Raegen's face was sweeter than anything
he had ever known. He felt wonderfully and for some reason uncomfortably happy, but the silence
was oppressive.

"What's your name, little 'un?" said Rags. The baby ran its arms more closely around Raegen's
neck and did not speak, unless its cooing in Raegen's ear was an answer. "What did you say
your name was?" persisted Raegen, in a whisper. The baby frowned at this and stopped cooing
long enough to say: "Marg'ret," mechanically and without apparently associating the name with
herself or anything else. "Margaret, eh!" said Raegen, with grave consideration. "It's a very
pretty name," he added, politely, for he could not shake off the feeling that he was in the
presence of a superior being. "An' what did you say your dad's name was?" asked Raegen, awkwardly.
But this was beyond the baby's patience or knowledge, and she waived the question aside with
both arms and began to beat a tattoo gently with her two closed fists on Raegen's chin and
throat. "You're mighty strong now, ain't you?" mocked the young giant, laughing. "Perhaps you
don't know, Missie," he added, gravely, "that your dad and mar are doing time on the Island,
and you won't see 'em again for a month." No, the baby did not know this nor care apparently;
she seemed content with Rags and with his company. Sometimes she drew away and looked at him
long and dubiously, and this cut Rags to the heart, and he felt guilty, and unreasonably anxious
until she smiled reassuringly again and ran back into his arms, nestling her face against his
and stroking his rough chin wonderingly with her little fingers.

Rags forgot the lateness of the night and the darkness that fell upon the room in the interest
of this strange entertainment, which was so much more absorbing, and so much more innocent
than any other he had ever known. He almost forgot the fact that he lay in hiding, that he
was surrounded by unfriendly neighbors, and that at any moment the representatives of local
justice might come in and rudely lead him away. For this reason he dared not make a light,
but he moved his position so that the glare from an electric lamp on the street outside might
fall across the baby's face, as it lay alternately dozing and awakening, to smile up at him
in the bend of his arm. Once it reached inside the collar of his shirt and pulled out the scapular
that hung around his neck, and looked at it so long, and with such apparent seriousness, that
Rags was confirmed in his fear that this kindly visitor was something more or less of a superhuman
agent, and his efforts to make this supposition coincide with the fact that the angel's parents
were on Blackwell's Island, proved one of the severest struggles his mind had ever experienced.
He had forgotten to feel hungry, and the knowledge that he was acutely so, first came to him
with the thought that the baby must obviously be in greatest need of food herself. This pained
him greatly, and he laid his burden down upon the bedding, and after slipping off his shoes,
tip-toed his way across the room on a foraging expedition after something she could eat. There
was a half of a ham-bone, and a half loaf of hard bread in a cupboard, and on the table he
found a bottle quite filled with wretched whiskey. That the police had failed to see the baby
had not appealed to him in any way, but that they should have allowed this last find to remain
unnoticed pleased him intensely, not because it now fell to him, but because they had been
cheated of it. It really struck him as so humorous that he stood laughing silently for several
minutes, slapping his thigh with every outward exhibition of the keenest mirth. But when he
found that the room and cupboard were bare of anything else that might be eaten he sobered
suddenly. It was very hot, and though the windows were open, the perspiration stood upon his
face, and the foul close air that rose from the court and street below made him gasp and pant
for breath. He dipped a wash rag in the water from the spigot in the hall, and filled a cup
with it and bathed the baby's face and wrists. She woke and sipped up the water from the cup
eagerly, and then looked up at him, as if to ask for something more. Rags soaked the crusty
bread in the water, and put it to the baby's lips, but after nibbling at it eagerly she shook
her head and looked up at him again with such reproachful pleading in her eyes, that Rags felt
her silence more keenly than the worst abuse he had ever received.

It hurt him so, that the pain brought tears to his eyes.

"Deary girl," he cried, "I'd give you anything you could think of if I had it. But I can't
get it, see? It ain't that I don't want to--good Lord, little 'un, you don't think that, do you?"

The baby smiled at this, just as though she understood him, and touched his face as if to comfort
him, so that Rags felt that same exquisite content again, which moved him so strangely whenever
the child caressed him, and which left him soberly wondering. Then the baby crawled up onto
his lap and dropped asleep, while Rags sat motionless and fanned her with a folded newspaper,
stopping every now and then to pass the damp cloth over her warm face and arms. It was quite
late now. Outside he could hear the neighbors laughing and talking on the roofs, and when one
group sang hilariously to an accordion, he cursed them under his breath for noisy, drunken
fools, and in his anger lest they should disturb the child in his arms, expressed an anxious
hope that they would fall off and break their useless necks. It grew silent and much cooler
as the night ran out, but Rags still sat immovable, shivering slightly every now and then and
cautiously stretching his stiff legs and body. The arm that held the child grew stiff and numb
with the light burden, but he took a fierce pleasure in the pain, and became hardened to it,
and at last fell into an uneasy slumber from which he awoke to pass his hands gently over the
soft yielding body, and to draw it slowly and closer to him. And then, from very weariness,
his eyes closed and his head fell back heavily against the wall, and the man and the child
in his arms slept peacefully in the dark corner of the deserted tenement.

The sun rose hissing out of the East River, a broad, red disc of heat. It swept the cross-streets
of the city as pitilessly as the search- light of a man-of-war sweeps the ocean. It blazed
brazenly into open windows, and changed beds into gridirons on which the sleepers tossed and
turned and woke unrefreshed and with throats dry and parched. Its glare awakened Rags into
a startled belief that the place about him was on fire, and he stared wildly until the child
in his arms brought him back to the knowledge of where he was. He ached in every joint and
limb, and his eyes smarted with the dry heat, but the baby concerned him most, for she was
breathing with hard, long, irregular gasps, her mouth was open and her absurdly small fists
were clenched, and around her closed eyes were deep blue rings. Rags felt a cold rush of fear
and uncertainty come over him as he stared about him helplessly for aid. He had seen babies
look like this before, in the tenements; they were like this when the young doctors of the
Health Board climbed to the roofs to see them, and they were like this, only quiet and still,
when the ambulance came clattering up the narrow streets, and bore them away. Rags carried
the baby into the outer room, where the sun had not yet penetrated, and laid her down gently
on the coverlets; then he let the water in the sink run until it was fairly cool, and with
this bathed the baby's face and hands and feet, and lifted a cup of the water to her open lips.
She woke at this and smiled again, but very faintly, and when she looked at him he felt fearfully
sure that she did not know him, and that she was looking through and past him at something
he could not see.

He did not know what to do, and he wanted to do so much. Milk was the only thing he was quite
sure babies cared for, but in want of this he made a mess of bits of the dry ham and crumbs
of bread, moistened with the raw whiskey, and put it to her lips on the end of a spoon. The
baby tasted this, and pushed his hand away, and then looked up and gave a feeble cry, and seemed
to say, as plainly as a grown woman could have said or written, "It isn't any use, Rags. You
are very good to me, but, indeed, I cannot do it. Don't worry, please; I don't blame you."

"Great Lord," gasped Rags, with a queer choking in his throat, "but ain't she got grit." Then
he bethought him of the people who he still believed inhabited the rest of the tenement, and
he concluded that as the day was yet so early they might still be asleep, and that while they
slept, he could "lift"--as he mentally described the act-- whatever they might have laid away
for breakfast. Excited with this hope, he ran noiselessly down the stairs in his bare feet,
and tried the doors of the different landings. But each he found open and each room bare and
deserted. Then it occurred to him that at this hour he might even risk a sally into the street.
He had money with him, and the milk-carts and bakers' wagons must be passing every minute.
He ran back to get the money out of his coat, delighted with the chance and chiding himself
for not having dared to do it sooner. He stood over the baby a moment before he left the room,
and flushed like a girl as he stooped and kissed one of the bare arms. "I'm going out to get
you some breakfast," he said. "I won't be gone long, but if I should," he added, as he paused
and shrugged his shoulders, "I'll send the sergeant after you from the station-house. If I
only wasn't under bonds," he muttered, as he slipped down the stairs. "If it wasn't for that
they couldn't give me more'n a month at the most, even knowing all they do of me. It was only
a street fight, anyway, and there was some there that must have seen him pull his pistol."
He stopped at the top of the first flight of stairs and sat down to wait. He could see below
the top of the open front door, the pavement and a part of the street beyond, and when he heard
the rattle of an approaching cart he ran on down and then, with an oath, turned and broke up-stairs
again. He had seen the ward detectives standing together on the opposite side of the street.

"Wot are they doing out a bed at this hour?" he demanded angrily. "Don't they make trouble
enough through the day, without prowling around before decent people are up? I wonder, now,
if they're after me." He dropped on his knees when he reached the room where the baby lay,
and peered cautiously out of the window at the detectives, who had been joined by two other
men, with whom they were talking earnestly. Raegen knew the new-comers for two of McGonegal's
friends, and concluded, with a momentary flush of pride and self-importance, that the detectives
were forced to be up at this early hour solely on his account. But this was followed by the
afterthought that he must have hurt McGonegal seriously, and that he was wanted in consequence
very much. This disturbed him most, he was surprised to find, because it precluded his going
forth in search of food. "I guess I can't get you that milk I was looking for," he said, jocularly,
to the baby, for the excitement elated him. "The sun outside isn't good for me health." The
baby settled herself in his arms and slept again, which sobered Rags, for he argued it was
a bad sign, and his own ravenous appetite warned him how the child suffered. When he again
offered her the mixture he had prepared for her, she took it eagerly, and Rags breathed a sigh
of satisfaction. Then he ate some of the bread and ham himself and swallowed half the whiskey,
and stretched out beside the child and fanned her while she slept. It was something strangely
incomprehensible to Rags that he should feel so keen a satisfaction in doing even this little
for her, but he gave up wondering, and forgot everything else in watching the strange beauty
of the sleeping baby and in the odd feeling of responsibility and self-respect she had brought
to him.

He did not feel it coming on, or he would have fought against it, but the heat of the day and
the sleeplessness of the night before, and the fumes of the whiskey on his empty stomach, drew
him unconsciously into a dull stupor, so that the paper fan slipped from his hand, and he sank
back on the bedding into a heavy sleep. When he awoke it was nearly dusk and past six o'clock,
as he knew by the newsboys calling the sporting extras on the street below. He sprang up, cursing
himself, and filled with bitter remorse.

"I'm a drunken fool, that's what I am," said Rags, savagely. "I've let her lie here all day
in the heat with no one to watch her." Margaret was breathing so softly that he could hardly
discern any life at all, and his heart almost stopped with fear. He picked her up and fanned
and patted her into wakefulness again and then turned desperately to the window and looked
down. There was no one he knew or who knew him as far as he could tell on the street, and he
determined recklessly to risk another sortie for food.

"Why, it's been near two days that child's gone without eating," he said, with keen self-reproach,
"and here you've let her suffer to save yourself a trip to the Island. You're a hulking big
loafer, you are," he ran on, muttering, "and after her coming to you and taking notice of you
and putting her face to yours like an angel." He slipped off his shoes and picked his way cautiously
down the stairs.

As he reached the top of the first flight a newsboy passed, calling the evening papers, and
shouted something which Rags could not distinguish. He wished he could get a copy of the paper.
It might tell him, he thought, something about himself. The boy was coming nearer, and Rags
stopped and leaned forward to listen.

"Extry! Extry!" shouted the newsboy, running. "Sun, World, and Mail. Full account of the murder
of Pike McGonegal by Ragsey Raegen."

The lights in the street seemed to flash up suddenly and grow dim again, leaving Rags blind
and dizzy.

"Stop," he yelled, "stop. Murdered, no, by God, no," he cried, staggering half-way down the
stairs; "stop, stop!" But no one heard Rags, and the sound of his own voice halted him. He
sank back weak and sick upon the top step of the stairs and beat his hands together upon his head.

"It's a lie, it's a lie," he whispered, thickly. "I struck him in self-defence, s'help me.
I struck him in self-defence. He drove me to it. He pulled his gun on me. I done it in self-defence."

And then the whole appearance of the young tough changed, and the terror and horror that had
showed on his face turned to one of low sharpness and evil cunning. His lips drew together
tightly and he breathed quickly through his nostrils, while his fingers locked and unlocked
around his knees. All that he had learned on the streets and wharves and roof-tops, all that
pitiable experience and dangerous knowledge that had made him a leader and a hero among the
thieves and bullies of the river-front he called to his assistance now. He faced the fact flatly
and with the cool consideration of an uninterested counsellor. He knew that the history of
his life was written on Police Court blotters from the day that he was ten years old, and with
pitiless detail; that what friends he had he held more by fear than by affection, and that
his enemies, who were many, only wanted just such a chance as this to revenge injuries long
suffered and bitterly cherished, and that his only safety lay in secret and instant flight.
The ferries were watched, of course; he knew that the depots, too, were covered by the men
whose only duty was to watch the coming and to halt the departing criminal. But he knew of
one old man who was too wise to ask questions and who would row him over the East River to
Astoria, and of another on the west side whose boat was always at the disposal of silent white-faced
young men who might come at any hour of the night or morning, and whom he would pilot across
to the Jersey shore and keep well away from the lights of the passing ferries and the green
lamp of the police boat. And once across, he had only to change his name and write for money
to be forwarded to that name, and turn to work until the thing was covered up and forgotten.
He rose to his feet in his full strength again, and intensely and agreeably excited with the
danger, and possibly fatal termination, of his adventure, and then there fell upon him, with
the suddenness of a blow, the remembrance of the little child lying on the dirty bedding in
the room above.

"I can't do it," he muttered fiercely; "I can't do it," he cried, as if he argued with some
other presence. "There's a rope around me neck, and the chances are all against me; it's every
man for himself and no favor." He threw his arms out before him as if to push the thought away
from him and ran his fingers through his hair and over his face. All of his old self rose in
him and mocked him for a weak fool, and showed him just how great his personal danger was,
and so he turned and dashed forward on a run, not only to the street, but as if to escape from
the other self that held him back. He was still without his shoes, and in his bare feet, and
he stopped as he noticed this and turned to go up stairs for them, and then he pictured to
himself the baby lying as he had left her, weakly unconscious and with dark rims around her
eyes, and he asked himself excitedly what he would do, if, on his return, she should wake and
smile and reach out her hands to him.

"I don't dare go back," he said, breathlessly. "I don't dare do it; killing's too good for
the likes of Pike McGonegal, but I'm not fighting babies. An' maybe, if I went back, maybe
I wouldn't have the nerve to leave her; I can't do it," he muttered, "I don't dare go back."
But still he did not stir, but stood motionless, with one hand trembling on the stair-rail
and the other clenched beside him, and so fought it on alone in the silence of the empty building.

The lights in the stores below came out one by one, and the minutes passed into half-hours,
and still he stood there with the noise of the streets coming up to him below speaking of escape
and of a long life of ill-regulated pleasures, and up above him the baby lay in the darkness
and reached out her hands to him in her sleep.

The surly old sergeant of the Twenty-first Precinct station-house had read the evening papers
through for the third time and was dozing in the fierce lights of the gas-jet over the high
desk when a young man with a white, haggard face came in from the street with a baby in his arms.

"I want to see the woman thet look after the station-house--quick," he said.

The surly old sergeant did not like the peremptory tone of the young man nor his general appearance,
for he had no hat, nor coat, and his feet were bare; so he said, with deliberate dignity, that
the char- woman was up-stairs lying down, and what did the young man want with her? "This child,"
said the visitor, in a queer thick voice, "she's sick. The heat's come over her, and she ain't
had anything to eat for two days, an' she's starving. Ring the bell for the matron, will yer,
and send one of your men around for the house surgeon." The sergeant leaned forward comfortably
on his elbows, with his hands under his chin so that the gold lace on his cuffs shone effectively
in the gaslight. He believed he had a sense of humor and he chose this unfortunate moment to
exhibit it.

"Did you take this for a dispensary, young man?" he asked; "or," he continued, with added facetiousness,
"a foundling hospital?"

The young man made a savage spring at the barrier in front of the high desk. "Damn you," he
panted, "ring that bell, do you hear me, or I'll pull you off that seat and twist your heart out."

The baby cried at this sudden outburst, and Rags fell back, patting it with his hand and muttering
between his closed teeth. The sergeant called to the men of the reserve squad in the reading-room
beyond, and to humor this desperate visitor, sounded the gong for the janitress. The reserve
squad trooped in leisurely with the playing-cards in their hands and with their pipes in their
mouths.

"This man," growled the sergeant, pointing with the end of his cigar to Rags, "is either drunk,
or crazy, or a bit of both."

The char-woman came down stairs majestically, in a long, loose wrapper, fanning herself with
a palm-leaf fan, but when she saw the child, her majesty dropped from her like a cloak, and
she ran toward her and caught the baby up in her arms. "You poor little thing," she murmured,
"and, oh, how beautiful!" Then she whirled about on the men of the reserve squad: "You, Conners,"
she said, "run up to my room and get the milk out of my ice-chest; and Moore, put on your coat
and go around and tell the surgeon I want to see him. And one of you crack some ice up fine
in a towel. Take it out of the cooler. Quick, now."

Raegen came up to her fearfully. "Is she very sick?" he begged; "she ain't going to die, is she?"

"Of course not," said the woman, promptly, "but she's down with the heat, and she hasn't been
properly cared for; the child looks half- starved. Are you her father?" she asked, sharply.
But Rags did not speak, for at the moment she had answered his question and had said the baby
would not die, he had reached out swiftly, and taken the child out of her arms and held it
hard against his breast, as though he had lost her and some one had been just giving her back
to him.

His head was bending over hers, and so he did not see Wade and Heffner, the two ward detectives,
as they came in from the street, looking hot, and tired, and anxious. They gave a careless
glance at the group, and then stopped with a start, and one of them gave a long, low whistle.

"Well," exclaimed Wade, with a gasp of surprise and relief. "So Raegen, you're here, after
all, are you? Well, you did give us a chase, you did. Who took you?"

The men of the reserve squad, when they heard the name of the man for whom the whole force
had been looking for the past two days, shifted their positions slightly, and looked curiously
at Rags, and the woman stopped pouring out the milk from the bottle in her hand, and stared
at him in frank astonishment. Raegen threw back his head and shoulders, and ran his eyes coldly
over the faces of the semicircle of men around him.

"Who took me?" he began defiantly, with a swagger of braggadocio, and then, as though it were
hardly worth while, and as though the presence of the baby lifted him above everything else,
he stopped, and raised her until her cheek touched his own. It rested there a moment, while
Rag stood silent.

"Who took me?" he repeated, quietly, and without lifting his eyes from the baby's face. "Nobody
took me," he said. "I gave myself up."

One morning, three months later, when Raegen had stopped his ice-cart in front of my door,
I asked him whether at any time he had ever regretted what he had done.

"Well, sir," he said, with easy superiority, "seeing that I've shook the gang, and that the
Society's decided her folks ain't fit to take care of her, we can't help thinking we are better
off, see?

"But, as for my ever regretting it, why, even when things was at the worst, when the case was
going dead against me, and before that cop, you remember, swore to McGonegal's drawing the
pistol, and when I used to sit in the Tombs expecting I'd have to hang for it, well, even then,
they used to bring her to see me every day, and when they'd lift her up, and she'd reach out
her hands and kiss me through the bars, why--they could have took me out and hung me, and been
damned to 'em, for all I'd have cared."

THE TRAILER FOR ROOM NO. 8

The "trailer" for the green-goods men who rented room No. 8 in Case's tenement had had no work
to do for the last few days, and was cursing his luck in consequence.

He was entirely too young to curse, but he had never been told so, and, indeed, so imperfect
had his training been that he had never been told not to do anything as long as it pleased
him to do it and made existence any more bearable.

He had been told when he was very young, before the man and woman who had brought him into
the world had separated, not to crawl out on the fire-escape, because he might break his neck,
and later, after his father had walked off Hegelman's Slip into the East River while very drunk,
and his mother had been sent to the penitentiary for grand larceny, he had been told not to
let the police catch him sleeping under the bridge.

With these two exceptions he had been told to do as he pleased, which was the very mockery
of advice, as he was just about as well able to do as he pleased as is any one who has to beg
or steal what he eats and has to sleep in hall-ways or over the iron gratings of warm cellars
and has the officers of the children's societies always after him to put him in a "Home" and
make him be "good."

"Snipes," as the trailer was called, was determined no one should ever force him to be good
if he could possibly prevent it. And he certainly did do a great deal to prevent it. He knew
what having to be good meant. Some of the boys who had escaped from the Home had told him all
about that. It meant wearing shoes and a blue and white checkered apron, and making cane-bottomed
chairs all day, and having to wash yourself in a big iron tub twice a week, not to speak of
having to move about like machines whenever the lady teacher hit a bell. So when the green-goods
men, of whom the genial Mr. Alf Wolfe was the chief, asked Snipes to act as "trailer" for them
at a quarter of a dollar for every victim he shadowed, he jumped at the offer and was proud
of the position.

If you should happen to keep a grocery store in the country, or to run the village post-office,
it is not unlikely that you know what a green-goods man is; but in case you don't, and have
only a vague idea as to how he lives, a paragraph of explanation must be inserted here for
your particular benefit. Green goods is the technical name for counterfeit bills, and the green-goods
men send out circulars to countrymen all over the United States, offering to sell them $5,000
worth of counterfeit money for $500, and ease their conscience by explaining to them that by
purchasing these green goods they are hurting no one but the Government, which is quite able,
with its big surplus, to stand the loss. They enclose a letter which is to serve their victim
as a mark of identification or credential when he comes on to purchase.

The address they give him is in one of the many drug-store and cigar- store post-offices which
are scattered all over New York, and which contribute to make vice and crime so easy that the
evil they do cannot be reckoned in souls lost or dollars stolen. If the letter from the countryman
strikes the dealers in green goods as sincere, they appoint an interview with him by mail in
rooms they rent for the purpose, and if they, on meeting him there, think he is still in earnest
and not a detective or officer in disguise, they appoint still another interview, to be held
later in the day in the back room of some saloon.

Then the countryman is watched throughout the day from the moment he leaves the first meeting-place
until he arrives at the saloon. If anything in his conduct during that time leads the man whose
duty it is to follow him, or the "trailer," as the profession call it, to believe he is a detective,
he finds when he arrives at the saloon that there is no one to receive him. But if the trailer
regards his conduct as unsuspicious, he is taken to another saloon, not the one just appointed,
which is, perhaps, a most respectable place, but to the thieves' own private little rendezvous,
where he is robbed in any of the several different ways best suited to their purpose.

Snipes was a very good trailer. He was so little that no one ever noticed him, and he could
keep a man in sight no matter how big the crowd was, or how rapidly it changed and shifted.
And he was as patient as he was quick, and would wait for hours if needful, with his eye on
a door, until his man reissued into the street again. And if the one he shadowed looked behind
him to see if he was followed, or dodged up and down different streets, as if he were trying
to throw off pursuit, or despatched a note or telegram, or stopped to speak to a policeman
or any special officer, as a detective might, who thought he had his men safely in hand, off
Snipes would go on a run, to where Alf Wolfe was waiting, and tell what he had seen.

Then Wolfe would give him a quarter or more, and the trailer would go back to his post opposite
Case's tenement, and wait for another victim to issue forth, and for the signal from No. 8
to follow him. It was not much fun, and "customers," as Mr. Wolfe always called them, had been
scarce, and Mr. Wolfe, in consequence, had been cross and nasty in his temper, and had batted
Snipe out of the way on more than one occasion. So the trailer was feeling blue and disconsolate,
and wondered how it was that "Naseby" Raegen, "Rags" Raegen's younger brother, had had the
luck to get a two weeks' visit to the country with the Fresh Air Fund children, while he had not.

He supposed it was because Naseby had sold papers, and wore shoes, and went to night school,
and did many other things equally objectionable. Still, what Naseby had said about the country,
and riding horseback, and the fishing, and the shooting crows with no cops to stop you, and
watermelons for nothing, had sounded wonderfully attractive and quite improbable, except that
it was one of Naseby's peculiarly sneaking ways to tell the truth. Anyway, Naseby had left
Cherry Street for good, and had gone back to the country to work there. This all helped to
make Snipes morose, and it was with a cynical smile of satisfaction that he watched an old
countryman coming slowly up the street, and asking his way timidly of the Italians to Case's
tenement.

The countryman looked up and about him in evident bewilderment and anxiety. He glanced hesitatingly
across at the boy leaning against the wall of a saloon, but the boy was watching two sparrows
fighting in the dirt of the street, and did not see him. At least, it did not look as if he
saw him. Then the old man knocked on the door of Case's tenement. No one came, for the people
in the house had learned to leave inquiring countrymen to the gentleman who rented room No.
8, and as that gentleman was occupied at that moment with a younger countryman, he allowed
the old man, whom he had first cautiously observed from the top of the stairs, to remain where
he was.

The old man stood uncertainly on the stoop, and then removed his heavy black felt hat and rubbed
his bald head and the white shining locks of hair around it with a red bandanna handkerchief.
Then he walked very slowly across the street toward Snipes, for the rest of the street was
empty, and there was no one else at hand. The old man was dressed in heavy black broadcloth,
quaintly cut, with boot legs showing up under the trousers, and with faultlessly clean linen
of home-made manufacture.

"I can't make the people in that house over there hear me," complained the old man, with the
simple confidence that old age has in very young boys. "Do you happen to know if they're at home?"

"Nop," growled Snipes.

"I'm looking for a man named Perceval," said the stranger; "he lives in that house, and I wanter
see him on most particular business. It isn't a very pleasing place he lives in, is it--at
least," he hurriedly added, as if fearful of giving offence, "it isn't much on the outside?
Do you happen to know him?"

Perceval was Alf Wolfe's business name.

"Nop," said the trailer.

"Well, I'm not looking for him," explained the stranger, slowly, "as much as I'm looking for
a young man that I kind of suspect is been to see him to-day: a young man that looks like me,
only younger. Has lightish hair and pretty tall and lanky, and carrying a shiny black bag with
him. Did you happen to hev noticed him going into that place across the way?"

"Nop," said Snipes.

The old man sighed and nodded his head thoughtfully at Snipes, and puckered up the corners
of his mouth, as though he were thinking deeply. He had wonderfully honest blue eyes, and with
the white hair hanging around his sun-burned face, he looked like an old saint. But the trailer
didn't know that: he did know, though, that this man was a different sort from the rest. Still,
that was none of his business.

"What is't you want to see him about?" he asked sullenly, while he looked up and down the street
and everywhere but at the old man, and rubbed one bare foot slowly over the other.

The old man looked pained, and much to Snipe's surprise, the question brought the tears to
his eyes, and his lips trembled. Then he swerved slightly, so that he might have fallen if
Snipes had not caught him and helped him across the pavement to a seat on a stoop. "Thankey,
son," said the stranger; "I'm not as strong as I was, an' the sun's mighty hot, an' these streets
of yours smell mighty bad, and I've had a powerful lot of trouble these last few days. But
if I could see this man Perceval before my boy does, I know I could fix it, and it would all
come out right."

"What do you want to see him about?" repeated the trailer, suspiciously, while he fanned the
old man with his hat. Snipes could not have told you why he did this or why this particular
old countryman was any different from the many others who came to buy counterfeit money and
who were thieves at heart as well as in deed.

"I want to see him about my son," said the old man to the little boy. "He's a bad man whoever
he is. This 'ere Perceval is a bad man. He sends down his wickedness to the country and tempts
weak folks to sin. He teaches 'em ways of evil-doing they never heard of, and he's ruined my
son with the others--ruined him. I've had nothing to do with the city and its ways; we're strict
living, simple folks, and perhaps we've been too strict, or Abraham wouldn't have run away
to the city. But I thought it was best, and I doubted nothing when the fresh-air children came
to the farm. I didn't like city children, but I let 'em come. I took 'em in, and did what I
could to make it pleasant for 'em. Poor little fellers, all as thin as corn-stalks and pale
as ghosts, and as dirty as you.

"I took 'em in and let 'em ride the horses, and swim in the river, and shoot crows in the cornfield,
and eat all the cherries they could pull, and what did the city send me in return for that?
It sent me this thieving, rascally scheme of this man Perceval's, and it turned my boy's head,
and lost him to me. I saw him poring over the note and reading it as if it were Gospel, and
I suspected nothing. And when he asked me if he could keep it, I said yes he could, for I thought
he wanted it for a curiosity, and then off he put with the black bag and the $200 he's been
saving up to start housekeeping with when the old Deacon says he can marry his daughter Kate."
The old man placed both hands on his knees and went on excitedly.

"The old Deacon says he'll not let 'em marry till Abe has $2,000, and that is what the boy's
come after. He wants to buy $2,000 worth of bad money with his $200 worth of good money, to
show the Deacon, just as though it were likely a marriage after such a crime as that would
ever be a happy one."

Snipes had stopped fanning the old man, as he ran on, and was listening intently, with an uncomfortable
feeling of sympathy and sorrow, uncomfortable because he was not used to it.

He could not see why the old man should think the city should have treated his boy better because
he had taken care of the city's children, and he was puzzled between his allegiance to the
gang and his desire to help the gang's innocent victim, and then because he was an innocent
victim and not a "customer," he let his sympathy get the better of his discretion.

"Saay," he began, abruptly, "I'm not sayin' nothin' to nobody, and nobody's sayin' nothin'
to me--see? but I guess your son'll be around here to-day, sure. He's got to come before one,
for this office closes sharp at one, and we goes home. Now, I've got the call whether he gets
his stuff taken off him or whether the boys leave him alone. If I say the word, they'd no more
come near him than if he had the cholera-- see? An' I'll say it for this oncet, just for you.
Hold on," he commanded, as the old man raised his voice in surprised interrogation, "don't
ask no questions, 'cause you won't get no answers 'except lies. You find your way back to the
Grand Central Depot and wait there, and I'll steer your son down to you, sure, as soon as I
can find him--see? Now get along, or you'll get me inter trouble."

"You've been lying to me, then," cried the old man, "and you're as bad as any of them, and
my boy's over in that house now."

He scrambled up from the stoop, and before the trailer could understand what he proposed to
do, had dashed across the street and up the stoop, and up the stairs, and had burst into room
No. 8.

Snipes tore after him. "Come back! come back out of that, you old fool!" he cried. "You'll
get killed in there!" Snipes was afraid to enter room No. 8, but he could hear from the outside
the old man challenging Alf Wolfe in a resonant angry voice that rang through the building.

"Whew!" said Snipes, crouching on the stairs, "there's goin' to be a muss this time, sure!"

"Where's my son? Where have you hidden my son?" demanded, the old man. He ran across the room
and pulled open a door that led into another room, but it was empty. He had fully expected
to see his boy murdered and quartered, and with his pockets inside out. He turned on Wolfe,
shaking his white hair like a mane. "Give me up my son, you rascal you!" he cried, "or I'll
get the police, and I'll tell them how you decoy honest boys to your den and murder them."

"Are you drunk or crazy, or just a little of both?" asked Mr. Wolfe. "For a cent I'd throw
you out of that window. Get out of here! Quick, now! You're too old to get excited like that;
it's not good for you."

But this only exasperated the old man the more, and he made a lunge at the confidence man's
throat. Mr. Wolfe stepped aside and caught him around the waist and twisted his leg around
the old man's rheumatic one, and held him. "Now," said Wolfe, as quietly as though he were
giving a lesson in wrestling, "if I wanted to, I could break your back."

The old man glared up at him, panting. "Your son's not here," said Wolfe, "and this is a private
gentleman's private room. I could turn you over to the police for assault if I wanted to; but,"
he added, magnanimously, "I won't. Now get out of here and go home to your wife, and when you
come to see the sights again don't drink so much raw whiskey." He half carried the old farmer
to the top of the stairs and dropped him, and went back and closed the door. Snipes came up
and helped him down and out, and the old man and the boy walked slowly and in silence out to
the Bowery. Snipes helped his companion into a car and put him off at the Grand Central Depot.
The heat and the excitement had told heavily on the old man, and he seemed dazed and beaten.

He was leaning on the trailer's shoulder and waiting for his turn in the line in front of the
ticket window, when a tall, gawky, good- looking country lad sprang out of it and at him with
an expression of surprise and anxiety. "Father," he said, "father, what's wrong? What are you
doing here? Is anybody ill at home? Are you ill?"

"Abraham," said the old man, simply, and dropped heavily on the younger man's shoulder. Then
he raised his head sternly and said: "I thought you were murdered, but better that than a thief,
Abraham. What brought you here? What did you do with that rascal's letter? What did you do
with his money?"

The trailer drew cautiously away; the conversation was becoming unpleasantly personal.

"I don't know what you're talking about," said Abraham, calmly. "The Deacon gave his consent
the other night without the $2,000, and I took the $200 I'd saved and came right on in the
fust train to buy the ring. It's pretty, isn't it?" he said, flushing, as he pulled out a little
velvet box and opened it.

The old man was so happy at this that he laughed and cried alternately, and then he made a
grab for the trailer and pulled him down beside him on one of the benches.

"You've got to come with me," he said, with kind severity. "You're a good boy, but your folks
have let you run wrong. You've been good to me, and you said you would get me back my boy and
save him from those thieves, and I believe now that you meant it. Now you're just coming back
with us to the farm and the cows and the river, and you can eat all you want and live with
us, and never, never see this unclean, wicked city again."

Snipes looked up keenly from under the rim of his hat and rubbed one of his muddy feet over
the other as was his habit. The young countryman, greatly puzzled, and the older man smiling
kindly, waited expectantly in silence. From outside came the sound of the car-bells jangling,
and the rattle of cabs, and the cries of drivers, and all the varying rush and turmoil of a
great metropolis. Green fields, and running rivers, and fruit that did not grow in wooden boxes
or brown paper cones, were myths and idle words to Snipes, but this "unclean, wicked city" he knew.

"I guess you're too good for me," he said, with an uneasy laugh. "I guess little old New York's
good enough for me."

"What!" cried the old man, in the tones of greatest concern. "You would go back to that den
of iniquity, surely not,--to that thief Perceval?"

"Well," said the trailer, slowly, "and he's not such a bad lot, neither. You see he could hev
broke your neck that time when you was choking him, but he didn't. There's your train," he
added hurriedly and jumping away. "Good-by. So long, old man. I'm much 'bliged to you jus'
for asking me."

Two hours later the farmer and his son were making the family weep and laugh over their adventures,
as they all sat together on the porch with the vines about it; and the trailer was leaning
against the wall of a saloon and apparently counting his ten toes, but in reality watching
for Mr. Wolfe to give the signal from the window of room No. 8.

"THERE WERE NINETY AND NINE"

Young Harringford, or the "Goodwood Plunger," as he was perhaps better known at that time,
had come to Monte Carlo in a very different spirit and in a very different state of mind from
any in which he had ever visited the place before. He had come there for the same reason that
a wounded lion, or a poisoned rat, for that matter, crawls away into a corner, that it may
be alone when it dies. He stood leaning against one of the pillars of the Casino with his back
to the moonlight, and with his eyes blinking painfully at the flaming lamps above the green
tables inside. He knew they would be put out very soon; and as he had something to do then,
he regarded them fixedly with painful earnestness, as a man who is condemned to die at sunrise
watches through his barred windows for the first gray light of the morning.

That queer, numb feeling in his head and the sharp line of pain between his eyebrows which
had been growing worse for the last three weeks, was troubling him more terribly than ever
before, and his nerves had thrown off all control and rioted at the base of his head and at
his wrists, and jerked and twitched as though, so it seemed to him, they were striving to pull
the tired body into pieces and to set themselves free. He was wondering whether if he should
take his hand from his pocket and touch his head he would find that it had grown longer, and
had turned into a soft, spongy mass which would give beneath his fingers. He considered this
for some time, and even went so far as to half withdraw one hand, but thought better of it
and shoved it back again as he considered how much less terrible it was to remain in doubt
than to find that this phenomenon had actually taken place.

The pity of the whole situation was, that the boy was only a boy with all his man's miserable
knowledge of the world, and the reason of it all was, that he had entirely too much heart and
not enough money to make an unsuccessful gambler. If he had only been able to lose his conscience
instead of his money, or even if he had kept his conscience and won, it is not likely that
he would have been waiting for the lights to go out at Monte Carlo. But he had not only lost
all of his money and more besides, which he could never make up, but he had lost other things
which meant much more to him now than money, and which could not be made up or paid back at
even usurious interest. He had not only lost the right to sit at his father's table, but the
right to think of the girl whose place in Surrey ran next to that of his own people, and whose
lighted window in the north wing he had watched on those many dreary nights when she had been
ill, from his own terrace across the trees in the park. And all he had gained was the notoriety
that made him a by-word with decent people, and the hero of the race- tracks and the music-halls.
He was no longer "Young Harringford, the eldest son of the Harringfords of Surrey," but the
"Goodwood Plunger," to whom Fortune had made desperate love and had then jilted, and mocked,
and overthrown.

As he looked back at it now and remembered himself as he was then, it seemed as though he was
considering an entirely distinct and separate personage--a boy of whom he liked to think, who
had had strong, healthy ambitions and gentle tastes. He reviewed it passionlessly as he stood
staring at the lights inside the Casino, as clearly as he was capable of doing in his present
state and with miserable interest. How he had laughed when young Norton told him in boyish
confidence that there was a horse named Siren in his father's stables which would win the Goodwood
Cup; how, having gone down to see Norton's people when the long vacation began, he had seen
Siren daily, and had talked of her until two every morning in the smoking-room, and had then
staid up two hours later to watch her take her trial spin over the downs. He remembered how
they used to stamp back over the long grass wet with dew, comparing watches and talking of
the time in whispers, and said good night as the sun broke over the trees in the park. And
then just at this time of all others, when the horse was the only interest of those around
him, from Lord Norton and his whole household down to the youngest stable-boy and oldest gaffer
in the village, he had come into his money.

And then began the then and still inexplicable plunge into gambling, and the wagering of greater
sums than the owner of Siren dared to risk himself, the secret backing of the horse through
commissioners all over England, until the boy by his single fortune had brought the odds against
her from 60 to 0 down to 6 to 0. He recalled, with a thrill that seemed to settle his nerves
for the moment, the little black specks at the starting-post and the larger specks as the horses
turned the first corner. The rest of the people on the coach were making a great deal of noise,
he remembered, but he, who had more to lose than any one or all of them together, had stood
quite still with his feet on the wheel and his back against the box-seat, and with his hands
sunk into his pockets and the nails cutting through his gloves. The specks grew into horses
with bits of color on them, and then the deep muttering roar of the crowd merged into one great
shout, and swelled and grew into sharper, quicker, impatient cries, as the horses turned into
the stretch with only their heads showing toward the goal. Some of the people were shouting
"Firefly!" and others were calling on "Vixen!" and others, who had their glasses up, cried
"Trouble leads!" but he only waited until he could distinguish the Norton colors, with his
lips pressed tightly together. Then they came so close that their hoofs echoed as loudly as
when horses gallop over a bridge, and from among the leaders Siren's beautiful head and shoulders
showed like sealskin in the sun, and the boy on her back leaned forward and touched her gently
with his hand, as they had so often seen him do on the downs, and Siren, as though he had touched
a spring, leaped forward with her head shooting back and out, like a piston-rod that has broken
loose from its fastening and beats the air, while the jockey sat motionless, with his right
arm hanging at his side as limply as though it were broken, and with his left moving forward
and back in time with the desperate strokes of the horse's head.

"Siren wins!" cried Lord Norton, with a grim smile, and "Siren!" the mob shouted back with
wonder and angry disappointment, and "Siren!" the hills echoed from far across the course.
Young Harringford felt as if he had suddenly been lifted into heaven after three months of
purgatory, and smiled uncertainly at the excited people on the coach about him. It made him
smile even now when he recalled young Norton's flushed face and the awe and reproach in his
voice when he climbed up and whispered, "Why, Cecil, they say in the ring you've won a fortune,
and you never told us." And how Griffith, the biggest of the book- makers, with the rest of
them at his back, came up to him and touched his hat resentfully, and said, "You'll have to
give us time, sir; I'm very hard hit"; and how the crowd stood about him and looked at him
curiously, and the Certain Royal Personage turned and said, "Who--not that boy, surely?" Then
how, on the day following, the papers told of the young gentleman who of all others had won
a fortune, thousands and thousands of pounds they said, getting back sixty for every one he
had ventured; and pictured him in baby clothes with the cup in his arms, or in an Eton jacket;
and how all of them spoke of him slightingly, or admiringly, as the "Goodwood Plunger."

He did not care to go on after that; to recall the mortification of his father, whose pride
was hurt and whose hopes were dashed by this sudden, mad freak of fortune, nor how he railed
at it and provoked him until the boy rebelled and went back to the courses, where he was a
celebrity and a king.

The rest is a very common story. Fortune and greater fortune at first; days in which he could
not lose, days in which he drove back to the crowded inns choked with dust, sunburnt and fagged
with excitement, to a riotous supper and baccarat, and afterward went to sleep only to see
cards and horses and moving crowds and clouds of dust; days spent in a short covert coat, with
a field-glass over his shoulder and with a pasteboard ticket dangling from his buttonhole;
and then came the change that brought conscience up again, and the visits to the Jews, and
the slights of the men who had never been his friends, but whom he had thought had at least
liked him for himself, even if he did not like them; and then debts, and more debts, and the
borrowing of money to pay here and there, and threats of executions; and, with it all, the
longing for the fields and trout springs of Surrey and the walk across the park to where she lived.

This grew so strong that he wrote to his father, and was told briefly that he who was to have
kept up the family name had dragged it into the dust of the race-courses, and had changed it
at his own wish to that of the Boy Plunger--and that the breach was irreconcilable.

Then this queer feeling came on, and he wondered why he could not eat, and why he shivered
even when the room was warm or the sun shining, and the fear came upon him that with all this
trouble and disgrace his head might give way, and then that it had given way. This came to
him at all times, and lately more frequently and with a fresher, more cruel thrill of terror,
and he began to watch himself and note how he spoke, and to repeat over what he had said to
see if it were sensible, and to question himself as to why he laughed, and at what. It was
not a question of whether it would or would not be cowardly; It was simply a necessity. The
thing had to be stopped. He had to have rest and sleep and peace again. He had boasted in those
reckless, prosperous days that if by any possible chance he should lose his money he would
drive a hansom, or emigrate to the colonies, or take the shilling. He had no patience in those
days with men who could not live on in adversity, and who were found in the gun-room with a
hole in their heads, and whose family asked their polite friends to believe that a man used
to firearms from his school-days had tried to load a hair- trigger revolver with the muzzle
pointed at his forehead. He had expressed a fine contempt for those men then, but now he had
forgotten all that, and thought only of the relief it would bring, and not how others might
suffer by it. If he did consider this, it was only to conclude that they would quite understand,
and be glad that his pain and fear were over.

Then he planned a grand coup which was to pay off all his debts and give him a second chance
to present himself a supplicant at his father's house. If it failed, he would have to stop
this queer feeling in his head at once. The Grand Prix and the English horse was the final
coup. On this depended everything--the return of his fortunes, the reconciliation with his
father, and the possibility of meeting her again. It was a very hot day he remembered, and
very bright; but the tall poplars on the road to the races seemed to stop growing just at a
level with his eyes. Below that it was clear enough, but all above seemed black--as though
a cloud had fallen and was hanging just over the people's heads. He thought of speaking of
this to his man Walters, who had followed his fortunes from the first, but decided not to do
so, for, as it was, he had noticed that Walters had observed him closely of late, and had seemed
to spy upon him. The race began, and he looked through his glass for the English horse in the
front and could not find her, and the Frenchman beside him cried, "Frou Frou!" as Frou Frou
passed the goal. He lowered his glasses slowly and unscrewed them very carefully before dropping
them back into the case; then he buckled the strap, and turned and looked about him. Two Frenchmen
who had won a hundred francs between them were jumping and dancing at his side. He remembered
wondering why they did not speak in English. Then the sunlight changed to a yellow, nasty glare,
as though a calcium light had been turned on the glass and colors, and he pushed his way back
to his carriage, leaning heavily on the servant's arm, and drove slowly back to Paris, with
the driver flecking his horses fretfully with his whip, for he had wished to wait and see the
end of the races.

He had selected Monte Carlo as the place for it, because it was more unlike his home than any
other spot, and because one summer night, when he had crossed the lawn from the Casino to the
hotel with a gay party of young men and women, they had come across something under a bush
which they took to be a dog or a man asleep, and one of the men had stepped forward and touched
it with his foot, and had then turned sharply and said, "Take those girls away"; and while
some hurried the women back, frightened and curious, he and the others had picked up the body
and found it to be that of a young Russian whom they had just seen losing, with a very bad
grace, at the tables. There was no passion in his face now, and his evening dress was quite
unruffled, and only a black spot on the shirt front showed where the powder had burnt the linen.
It had made a great impression on him then, for he was at the height of his fortunes, with
crowds of sycophantic friends and a retinue of dependents at his heels. And now that he was
quite alone and disinherited by even these sorry companions there seemed no other escape from
the pain in his brain but to end it, and he sought this place of all others as the most fitting
place in which to die.

So, after Walters had given the proper papers and checks to the commissioner who handled his
debts for him, he left Paris and took the first train for Monte Carlo, sitting at the window
of the carriage, and beating a nervous tattoo on the pane with his ring until the old gentleman
at the other end of the compartment scowled at him. But Harringford did not see him, nor the
trees and fields as they swept by, and it was not until Walters came and said, "You get out
here, sir," that he recognized the yellow station and the great hotels on the hill above. It
was half-past eleven, and the lights in the Casino were still burning brightly. He wondered
whether he would have time to go over to the hotel and write a letter to his father and to
her. He decided, after some difficult consideration, that he would not. There was nothing to
say that they did not know already, or that they would fail to understand. But this suggested
to him that what they had written to him must be destroyed at once, before any stranger could
claim the right to read it. He took his letters from his pocket and looked them over carefully.
They were most unpleasant reading. They all seemed to be about money; some begged to remind
him of this or that debt, of which he had thought continuously for the last month, while others
were abusive and insolent. Each of them gave him actual pain. One was the last letter he had
received from his father just before leaving Paris, and though he knew it by heart, he read
it over again for the last time. That it came too late, that it asked what he knew now to be
impossible, made it none the less grateful to him, but that it offered peace and a welcome
home made it all the more terrible.

"I came to take this step through young Hargraves, the new curate," his father wrote, "though
he was but the instrument in the hands of Providence. He showed me the error of my conduct
toward you, and proved to me that my duty and the inclination of my heart were toward the same
end. He read this morning for the second lesson the story of the Prodigal Son, and I heard
it without recognition and with no present application until he came to the verse which tells
how the father came to his son 'when he was yet a great way off.' He saw him, it says, 'when
he was yet a great way off,' and ran to meet him. He did not wait for the boy to knock at his
gate and beg to be let in, but went out to meet him, and took him in his arms and led him back
to his home. Now, my boy, my son, it seems to me as if you had never been so far off from me
as you are at this present time, as if you had never been so greatly separated from me in every
thought and interest; we are even worse than strangers, for you think that my hand is against
you, that I have closed the door of your home to you and driven you away. But what I have done
I beg of you to forgive: to forget what I may have said in the past, and only to think of what
I say now. Your brothers are good boys and have been good sons to me, and God knows I am thankful
for such sons, and thankful to them for bearing themselves as they have done.

"But, my boy, my first-born, my little Cecil, they can never be to me what you have been. I
can never feel for them as I feel for you; they are the ninety and nine who have never wandered
away upon the mountains, and who have never been tempted, and have never left their home for
either good or evil. But you, Cecil, though you have made my heart ache until I thought and
even hoped it would stop beating, and though you have given me many, many nights that I could
not sleep, are still dearer to me than anything else in the world. You are the flesh of my
flesh and the bone of my bone, and I cannot bear living on without you. I cannot be at rest
here, or look forward contentedly to a rest hereafter, unless you are by me and hear me, unless
I can see your face and touch you and hear your laugh in the halls. Come back to me, Cecil;
to Harringford and the people that know you best, and know what is best in you and love you
for it. I can have only a few more years here now when you will take my place and keep up my
name. I will not be here to trouble you much longer; but, my boy, while I am here, come to
me and make me happy for the rest of my life. There are others who need you, Cecil. You know
whom I mean. I saw her only yesterday, and she asked me of you with such splendid disregard
for what the others standing by might think, and as though she dared me or them to say or even
imagine anything against you. You cannot keep away from us both much longer. Surely not; you
will come back and make us happy for the rest of our lives."

The Goodwood Plunger turned his back to the lights so that the people passing could not see
his face, and tore the letter up slowly and dropped it piece by piece over the balcony. "If
I could," he whispered; "if I could." The pain was a little worse than usual just then, but
it was no longer a question of inclination. He felt only this desire to stop these thoughts
and doubts and the physical tremor that shook him. To rest and sleep, that was what he must
have, and peace. There was no peace at home or anywhere else while this thing lasted. He could
not see why they worried him in this way. It was quite impossible. He felt much more sorry
for them than for himself, but only because they could not understand. He was quite sure that
if they could feel what he suffered they would help him, even to end it.

He had been standing for some time with his back to the light, but now he turned to face it
and to take up his watch again. He felt quite sure the lights would not burn much longer. As
he turned, a woman came forward from out the lighted hall, hovered uncertainly before him,
and then made a silent salutation, which was something between a courtesy and a bow. That she
was a woman and rather short and plainly dressed, and that her bobbing up and down annoyed
him, was all that he realized of her presence, and he quite failed to connect her movements
with himself in any way. "Sir," she said in French, "I beg your pardon, but might I speak with
you?" The Goodwood Plunger possessed a somewhat various knowledge of Monte Carlo and its habitues.
It was not the first time that women who had lost at the tables had begged a napoleon from
him, or asked the distinguished child of fortune what color or combination she should play.
That, in his luckier days, had happened often and had amused him, but now he moved back irritably
and wished that the figure in front of him would disappear as it had come.

"I am in great trouble, sir," the woman said. "I have no friends here, sir, to whom I may apply.
I am very bold, but my anxiety is very great."

The Goodwood Plunger raised his hat slightly and bowed. Then he concentrated his eyes with
what was a distinct effort on the queer little figure hovering in front of him, and stared
very hard. She wore an odd piece of red coral for a brooch, and by looking steadily at this
he brought the rest of the figure into focus and saw, without surprise,--for every commonplace
seemed strange to him now, and everything peculiar quite a matter of course,--that she was
distinctly not an habituee of the place, and looked more like a lady's maid than an adventuress.
She was French and pretty,--such a girl as might wait in a Duval restaurant or sit as a cashier
behind a little counter near the door.

"We should not be here," she said, as if in answer to his look and in apology for her presence.
"But Louis, my husband, he would come. I told him that this was not for such as we are, but
Louis is so bold. He said that upon his marriage tour he would live with the best, and so here
he must come to play as the others do. We have been married, sir, only since Tuesday, and we
must go back to Paris to-morrow; they would give him only the three days. He is not a gambler;
he plays dominos at the cafes, it is true. But what will you? He is young and with so much
spirit, and I know that you, sir, who are so fortunate and who understand so well how to control
these tables, I know that you will persuade him. He will not listen to me; he is so greatly
excited and so little like himself. You will help me, sir, will you not? You will speak to him?"

The Goodwood Plunger knit his eyebrows and closed the lids once or twice, and forced the mistiness
and pain out of his eyes. It was most annoying. The woman seemed to be talking a great deal
and to say very much, but he could not make sense of it. He moved his shoulders slightly. "I
can't understand," he said wearily, turning away.

"It is my husband," the woman said anxiously: "Louis, he is playing at the table inside, and
he is only an apprentice to old Carbut the baker, but he owns a third of the store. It was
my dot that paid for it," she added proudly. "Old Carbut says he may have it all for 20,000
francs, and then old Carbut will retire, and we will be proprietors. We have saved a little,
and we had counted to buy the rest in five or six years if we were very careful."

"I see, I see," said the Plunger, with a little short laugh of relief; "I understand." He was
greatly comforted to think that it was not so bad as it had threatened. He saw her distinctly
now and followed what she said quite easily, and even such a small matter as talking with this
woman seemed to help him.

"He is gambling," he said, "and losing the money, and you come to me to advise him what to
play. I understand. Well, tell him he will lose what little he has left; tell him I advise
him to go home; tell him--"

"No, no!" the girl said excitedly; "you do not understand; he has not lost, he has won. He
has won, oh, so many rolls of money, but he will not stop. Do you not see? He has won as much
as we could earn in many months--in many years, sir, by saving and working, oh, so very hard!
And now he risks it again, and I cannot force him away. But if you, sir, if you would tell
him how great the chances are against him, if you who know would tell him how foolish he is
not to be content with what he has, he would listen. He says to me, 'Bah! you are a woman';
and he is so red and fierce; he is imbecile with the sight of the money, but he will listen
to a grand gentleman like you. He thinks to win more and more, and he thinks to buy another
third from old Carbut. Is it not foolish? It is so wicked of him."

"Oh, yes," said the Goodwood Plunger, nodding, "I see now. You want me to take him away so
that he can keep what he has. I see; but I don't know him. He will not listen to me, you know;
I have no right to interfere."

He turned away, rubbing his hand across his forehead. He wished so much that this woman would
leave him by himself.

"Ah, but, sir," cried the girl, desperately, and touching his coat, "you who are so fortunate,
and so rich, and of the great world, you cannot feel what this is to me. To have my own little
shop and to be free, and not to slave, and sew, and sew until my back and fingers burn with
the pain. Speak to him, sir; ah, speak to him! It is so easy a thing to do, and he will listen
to you."

The Goodwood Plunger turned again abruptly. "Where is he?" he said. "Point him out to me."

The woman ran ahead, with a murmur of gratitude, to the open door and pointed to where her
husband was standing leaning over and placing some money on one of the tables. He was a handsome
young Frenchman, as bourgeois as his wife, and now terribly alive and excited. In the self-contained
air of the place and in contrast with the silence of the great hall he seemed even more conspicuously
out of place. The Plunger touched him on the arm, and the Frenchman shoved the hand off impatiently
and without looking around. The Plunger touched him again and forced him to turn toward him.

"Well!" said the Frenchman, quickly. "Well?"

"Madame, your wife," said Cecil, with the grave politeness of an old man, "has done me the
honor to take me into her confidence. She tells me that you have won a great deal of money;
that you could put it to good use at home, and so save yourselves much drudgery and debt, and
all that sort of trouble. You are quite right if you say it is no concern of mine. It is not.
But really, you know there is a great deal of sense in what she wants, and you have apparently
already won a large sum."

The Frenchman was visibly surprised at this approach. He paused for a second or two in some
doubt, and even awe, for the disinherited one carried the mark of a personage of consideration
and of one whose position is secure. Then he gave a short, unmirthful laugh.

"You are most kind, sir," he said with mock politeness and with an impatient shrug. "But madame,
my wife, has not done well to interest a stranger in this affair, which, as you say, concerns
you not."

He turned to the table again with a defiant swagger of independence and placed two rolls of
money upon the cloth, casting at the same moment a childish look of displeasure at his wife.
"You see," said the Plunger, with a deprecatory turning out of his hands. But there was so
much grief on the girl's face that he turned again to the gambler and touched his arm. He could
not tell why he was so interested in these two. He had witnessed many such scenes before, and
they had not affected him in any way except to make him move out of hearing. But the same dumb
numbness in his head, which made so many things seem possible that should have been terrible
even to think upon, made him stubborn and unreasonable over this. He felt intuitively--it could
not be said that he thought--that the woman was right and the man wrong, and so he grasped
him again by the arm, and said sharply this time:

"Come away! Do you hear? You are acting foolishly."

But even as he spoke the red won, and the Frenchman with a boyish gurgle of pleasure raked
in his winnings with his two hands, and then turned with a happy, triumphant laugh to his wife.
It is not easy to convince a man that he is making a fool of himself when he is winning some
hundred francs every two minutes. His silent arguments to the contrary are difficult to answer.
But the Plunger did not regard this in the least.

"Do you hear me?" he said in the same stubborn tone and with much the same manner with which
he would have spoken to a groom. "Come away."

Again the Frenchman tossed off his hand, this time with an execration, and again he placed
the rolls of gold coin on the red; and again the red won.

"My God!" cried the girl, running her fingers over the rolls on the table, "he has won half
of the 20,000 francs. Oh, sir, stop him, stop him!" she cried. "Take him away."

"Do you hear me!" cried the Plunger, excited to a degree of utter self-forgetfulness, and carried
beyond himself; "you've got to come with me."

"Take away your hand," whispered the young Frenchman, fiercely. "See, I shall win it all; in
one grand coup I shall win it all. I shall win five years' pay in one moment."

He swept all of the money forward on the red and threw himself over the table to see the wheel.

"Wait, confound you!" whispered the Plunger, excitedly. "If you will risk it, risk it with
some reason. You can't play all that money; they won't take it. Six thousand francs is the
limit, unless," he ran on quickly, "you divide the 12,000 francs among the three of us. You
understand, 6,000 francs is all that any one person can play; but if you give 4,000 to me,
and 4,000 to your wife, and keep 4,000 yourself, we can each chance it. You can back the red
if you like, your wife shall put her money on the numbers coming up below eighteen, and I will
back the odd. In that way you stand to win 24,000 francs if our combination wins, and you lose
less than if you simply back the color. Do you understand?"

"No!" cried the Frenchman, reaching for the piles of money which the Plunger had divided rapidly
into three parts, "on the red; all on the red!"

"Good heavens, man!" cried the Plunger, bitterly. "I may not know much, but you should allow
me to understand this dirty business." He caught the Frenchman by the wrists, and the young
man, more impressed with the strange look in the boy's face than by his physical force, stood
still, while the ball rolled and rolled, and clicked merrily, and stopped, and balanced, and
then settled into the "seven."

"Red, odd, and below," the croupier droned mechanically.

"Ah! you see; what did I tell you?" said the Plunger, with sudden calmness. "You have won more
than your 20,000 francs; you are proprietors--I congratulate you!"

"Ah, my God!" cried the Frenchman, in a frenzy of delight, "I will double it."

He reached toward the fresh piles of coin as if he meant to sweep them back again, but the
Plunger put himself in his way and with a quick movement caught up the rolls of money and dropped
them into the skirt of the woman, which she raised like an apron to receive her treasure.

"Now," said young Harringford, determinedly, "you come with me." The Frenchman tried to argue
and resist, but the Plunger pushed him on with the silent stubbornness of a drunken man. He
handed the woman into a carriage at the door, shoved her husband in beside her, and while the
man drove to the address she gave him, he told the Frenchman, with an air of a chief of police,
that he must leave Monte Carlo at once, that very night.

"Do you suppose I don't know?" he said. "Do you fancy I speak without knowledge? I've seen
them come here rich and go away paupers. But you shall not; you shall keep what you have and
spite them." He sent the woman up to her room to pack while he expostulated with and browbeat
the excited bridegroom in the carriage. When she returned with the bag packed, and so heavy
with the gold that the servants could hardly lift it up beside the driver, he ordered the coachman
to go down the hill to the station.

"The train for Paris leaves at midnight," he said, "and you will be there by morning. Then
you must close your bargain with this old Carbut, and never return here again."

The Frenchman had turned during the ride from an angry, indignant prisoner to a joyful madman,
and was now tearfully and effusively humble in his petitions for pardon and in his thanks.
Their benefactor, as they were pleased to call him, hurried them into the waiting train and
ran to purchase their tickets for them.

"Now," he said, as the guard locked the door of the compartment, "you are alone, and no one
can get in, and you cannot get out. Go back to your home, to your new home, and never come
to this wretched place again. Promise me--you understand?--never again!"

They promised with effusive reiteration. They embraced each other like children, and the man,
pulling off his hat, called upon the good Lord to thank the gentleman.

"You will be in Paris, will you not?" said the woman, in an ecstasy of pleasure, "and you will
come to see us in our own shop, will you not? Ah! we should be so greatly honored, sir, if
you would visit us; if you would come to the home you have given us. You have helped us so
greatly, sir," she said; "and may Heaven bless you!"

She caught up his gloved hand as it rested on the door and kissed it until he snatched it away
in great embarrassment and flushing like a girl. Her husband drew her toward him, and the young
bride sat at his side with her face close to his and wept tears of pleasure and of excitement.

"Ah, look, sir!" said the young man, joyfully; "look how happy you have made us. You have made
us happy for the rest of our lives."

The train moved out with a quick, heavy rush, and the car-wheels took up the young stranger's
last words and seemed to say, "You have made us happy--made us happy for the rest of our lives."

It had all come about so rapidly that the Plunger had had no time to consider or to weigh his
motives, and all that seemed real to him now, as he stood alone on the platform of the dark,
deserted station, were the words of the man echoing and re-echoing like the refrain of the
song. And then there came to him suddenly, and with all the force of a gambler's superstition,
the thought that the words were the same as those which his father had used in his letter,
"you can make us happy for the rest of our lives."

"Ah," he said, with a quick gasp of doubt, "if I could! If I made those poor fools happy, mayn't
I live to be something to him, and to her? O God!" he cried, but so gently that one at his
elbow could not have heard him, "if I could, if I could!"

He tossed up his hands, and drew them down again and clenched them in front of him, and raised
his tired, hot eyes to the calm purple sky with its millions of moving stars. "Help me!" he
whispered fiercely, "help me." And as he lowered his head the queer numb feeling seemed to
go, and a calm came over his nerves and left him in peace. He did not know what it might be,
nor did he dare to question the change which had come to him, but turned and slowly mounted
the hill, with the awe and fear still upon him of one who had passed beyond himself for one
brief moment into another world. When he reached his room he found his servant bending with
an anxious face over a letter which he tore up guiltily as his master entered. "You were writing
to my father," said Cecil, gently, "were you not? Well, you need not finish your letter; we
are going home.

"I am going away from this place, Walters," he said as he pulled off his coat and threw himself
heavily on the bed. "I will take the first train that leaves here, and I will sleep a little
while you put up my things. The first train, you understand--within an hour, if it leaves that
soon." His head sank back on the pillows heavily, as though he had come in from a long, weary
walk, and his eyes closed and his arms fell easily at his side. The servant stood frightened
and yet happy, with the tears running down his cheeks, for he loved his master dearly.

"We are going home, Walters," the Plunger whispered drowsily. "We are going home; home to England
and Harringford and the governor--and we are going to be happy for all the rest of our lives."
He paused a moment, and Walters bent forward over the bed and held his breath to listen.

"For he came to me," murmured the boy, as though he was speaking in his sleep, "when I was
yet a great way off--while I was yet a great way off, and ran to meet me--"

His voice sank until it died away into silence, and a few hours later, when Walters came to
wake him, he found his master sleeping like a child and smiling in his sleep.

THE CYNICAL MISS CATHERWAIGHT

Miss Catherwaight's collection of orders and decorations and medals was her chief offence in
the eyes of those of her dear friends who thought her clever but cynical.

All of them were willing to admit that she was clever, but some of them said she was clever
only to be unkind.

Young Van Bibber had said that if Miss Catherwaight did not like dances and days and teas,
she had only to stop going to them instead of making unpleasant remarks about those who did.
So many people repeated this that young Van Bibber believed finally that he had said something
good, and was somewhat pleased in consequence, as he was not much given to that sort of thing.

Mrs. Catherwaight, while she was alive, lived solely for society, and, so some people said,
not only lived but died for it. She certainly did go about a great deal, and she used to carry
her husband away from his library every night of every season and left him standing in the
doorways of drawing-rooms, outwardly courteous and distinguished looking, but inwardly somnolent
and unhappy. She was a born and trained social leader, and her daughter's coming out was to
have been the greatest effort of her life. She regarded it as an event in the dear child's
lifetime second only in importance to her birth; equally important with her probable marriage
and of much more poignant interest than her possible death. But the great effort proved too
much for the mother, and she died, fondly remembered by her peers and tenderly referred to
by a great many people who could not even show a card for her Thursdays. Her husband and her
daughter were not going out, of necessity, for more than a year after her death, and then felt
no inclination to begin over again, but lived very much together and showed themselves only
occasionally.

They entertained, though, a great deal, in the way of dinners, and an invitation to one of
these dinners soon became a diploma for intellectual as well as social qualifications of a
very high order.

One was always sure of meeting some one of consideration there, which was pleasant in itself,
and also rendered it easy to let one's friends know where one had been dining. It sounded so
flat to boast abruptly, "I dined at the Catherwaights' last night"; while it seemed only natural
to remark, "That reminds me of a story that novelist, what's his name, told at Mr. Catherwaight's,"
or "That English chap, who's been in Africa, was at the Catherwaights' the other night, and
told me--"

After one of these dinners people always asked to be allowed to look over Miss Catherwaight's
collection, of which almost everybody had heard. It consisted of over a hundred medals and
decorations which Miss Catherwaight had purchased while on the long tours she made with her
father in all parts of the world. Each of them had been given as a reward for some public service,
as a recognition of some virtue of the highest order--for personal bravery, for statesmanship,
for great genius in the arts; and each had been pawned by the recipient or sold outright. Miss
Catherwaight referred to them as her collection of dishonored honors, and called them variously
her Orders of the Knights of the Almighty Dollar, pledges to patriotism and the pawnshops,
and honors at second-hand.

It was her particular fad to get as many of these together as she could and to know the story
of each. The less creditable the story, the more highly she valued the medal. People might
think it was not a pretty hobby for a young girl, but they could not help smiling at the stories
and at the scorn with which she told them.

"These," she would say, "are crosses of the Legion of Honor; they are of the lowest degree,
that of chevalier. I keep them in this cigar box to show how cheaply I got them and how cheaply
I hold them. I think you can get them here in New York for ten dollars; they cost more than
that--about a hundred francs--in Paris. At second-hand, of course. The French government can
imprison you, you know, for ten years, if you wear one without the right to do so, but they
have no punishment for those who choose to part with them for a mess of pottage.

"All these," she would run on, "are English war medals. See, on this one is 'Alma,' 'Balaclava,'
and 'Sebastopol.' He was quite a veteran, was he not? Well, he sold this to a dealer on Wardour
Street, London, for five and six. You can get any number of them on the Bowery for their weight
in silver. I tried very hard to get a Victoria Cross when I was in England, and I only succeeded
in getting this one after a great deal of trouble. They value the cross so highly, you know,
that it is the only other decoration in the case which holds the Order of the Garter in the
Jewel Room at the Tower. It is made of copper, so that its intrinsic value won't have any weight
with the man who gets it, but I bought this nevertheless for five pounds. The soldier to whom
it belonged had loaded and fired a cannon all alone when the rest of the men about the battery
had run away. He was captured by the enemy, but retaken immediately afterward by re-enforcements
from his own side, and the general in command recommended him to the Queen for decoration.
He sold his cross to the proprietor of a curiosity shop and drank himself to death. I felt
rather meanly about keeping it and hunted up his widow to return it to her, but she said I
could have it for a consideration.

"This gold medal was given, as you see, to 'Hiram J. Stillman, of the sloop Annie Barker, for
saving the crew of the steamship Olivia, June 18, 1888,' by the President of the United States
and both houses of Congress. I found it on Baxter Street in a pawnshop. The gallant Hiram J.
had pawned it for sixteen dollars and never came back to claim it."

"But, Miss Catherwaight," some optimist would object, "these men undoubtedly did do something
brave and noble once. You can't get back of that; and they didn't do it for a medal, either,
but because it was their duty. And so the medal meant nothing to them: their conscience told
them they had done the right thing; they didn't need a stamped coin to remind them of it, or
of their wounds, either, perhaps."

"Quite right; that's quite true," Miss Catherwaight would say. "But how about this? Look at
this gold medal with the diamonds: 'Presented to Colonel James F. Placer by the men of his
regiment, in camp before Richmond.' Every soldier in the regiment gave something toward that,
and yet the brave gentleman put it up at a game of poker one night, and the officer who won
it sold it to the man who gave it to me. Can you defend that?"

Miss Catherwaight was well known to the proprietors of the pawnshops and loan offices on the
Bowery and Park Row. They learned to look for her once a month, and saved what medals they
received for her and tried to learn their stories from the people who pawned them, or else
invented some story which they hoped would answer just as well.

Though her brougham produced a sensation in the unfashionable streets into which she directed
it, she was never annoyed. Her maid went with her into the shops, and one of the grooms always
stood at the door within call, to the intense delight of the neighborhood. And one day she
found what, from her point of view, was a perfect gem. It was a poor, cheap-looking, tarnished
silver medal, a half-dollar once, undoubtedly, beaten out roughly into the shape of a heart
and engraved in script by the jeweller of some country town. On one side were two clasped hands
with a wreath around them, and on the reverse was this inscription: "From Henry Burgoyne to
his beloved friend Lewis L. Lockwood"; and below, "Through prosperity and adversity." That
was all. And here it was among razors and pistols and family Bibles in a pawnbroker's window.
What a story there was in that! These two boy friends, and their boyish friendship that was
to withstand adversity and prosperity, and all that remained of it was this inscription to
its memory like the wording on a tomb!

"He couldn't have got so much on it any way," said the pawnbroker, entering into her humor.
"I didn't lend him more'n a quarter of a dollar at the most."

Miss Catherwaight stood wondering if the Lewis L. Lockwood could be Lewis Lockwood, the lawyer
one read so much about. Then she remembered his middle name was Lyman, and said quickly, "I'll
take it, please."

She stepped into the carriage, and told the man to go find a directory and look for Lewis Lyman
Lockwood. The groom returned in a few minutes and said there was such a name down in the book
as a lawyer, and that his office was such a number on Broadway; it must be near Liberty. "Go
there," said Miss Catherwaight.

Her determination was made so quickly that they had stopped in front of a huge pile of offices,
sandwiched in, one above the other, until they towered mountains high, before she had quite
settled in her mind what she wanted to know, or had appreciated how strange her errand might
appear. Mr. Lockwood was out, one of the young men in the outer office said, but the junior
partner, Mr. Latimer, was in and would see her. She had only time to remember that the junior
partner was a dancing acquaintance of hers, before young Mr. Latimer stood before her smiling,
and with her card in his hand.

"Mr. Lockwood is out just at present, Miss Catherwaight," he said, "but he will be back in
a moment. Won't you come into the other room and wait? I'm sure he won't be away over five
minutes. Or is it something I could do?"

She saw that he was surprised to see her, and a little ill at ease as to just how to take her
visit. He tried to make it appear that he considered it the most natural thing in the world,
but he overdid it, and she saw that her presence was something quite out of the common. This
did not tend to set her any more at her ease. She already regretted the step she had taken.
What if it should prove to be the same Lockwood, she thought, and what would they think of her?

"Perhaps you will do better than Mr. Lockwood," she said, as she followed him into the inner
office. "I fear I have come upon a very foolish errand, and one that has nothing at all to
do with the law."

"Not a breach of promise suit, then?" said young Latimer, with a smile. "Perhaps it is only
an innocent subscription to a most worthy charity. I was afraid at first," he went on lightly,
"that it was legal redress you wanted, and I was hoping that the way I led the Courdert's cotillion
had made you think I could conduct you through the mazes of the law as well."

"No," returned Miss Catherwaight, with a nervous laugh; "it has to do with my unfortunate collection.
This is what brought me here," she said, holding out the silver medal. "I came across it just
now in the Bowery. The name was the same, and I thought it just possible Mr. Lockwood would
like to have it; or, to tell you the truth, that he might tell me what had become of the Henry
Burgoyne who gave it to him."

Young Latimer had the medal in his hand before she had finished speaking, and was examining
it carefully. He looked up with just a touch of color in his cheeks and straightened himself
visibly.

"Please don't be offended," said the fair collector. "I know what you think. You've heard of
my stupid collection, and I know you think I meant to add this to it. But, indeed, now that
I have had time to think--you see I came here immediately from the pawnshop, and I was so interested,
like all collectors, you know, that I didn't stop to consider. That's the worst of a hobby;
it carries one rough-shod over other people's feelings, and runs away with one. I beg of you,
if you do know anything about the coin, just to keep it and don't tell me, and I assure you
what little I know I will keep quite to myself."

Young Latimer bowed, and stood looking at her curiously, with the medal in his hand.

"I hardly know what to say," he began slowly. "It really has a story. You say you found this
on the Bowery, in a pawnshop. Indeed! Well, of course, you know Mr. Lockwood could not have
left it there."

Miss Catherwaight shook her head vehemently and smiled in deprecation.

"This medal was in his safe when he lived on Thirty-fifth Street at the time he was robbed,
and the burglars took this with the rest of the silver and pawned it, I suppose. Mr. Lockwood
would have given more for it than any one else could have afforded to pay." He paused a moment,
and then continued more rapidly: "Henry Burgoyne is Judge Burgoyne. Ah! you didn't guess that?
Yes, Mr. Lockwood and he were friends when they were boys. They went to school in Westchester
County. They were Damon and Pythias and that sort of thing. They roomed together at the State
college and started to practise law in Tuckahoe as a firm, but they made nothing of it, and
came on to New York and began reading law again with Fuller & Mowbray. It was while they were
at school that they had these medals made. There was a mate to this, you know; Judge Burgoyne
had it. Well, they continued to live and work together. They were both orphans and dependent
on themselves. I suppose that was one of the strongest bonds between them; and they knew no
one in New York, and always spent their spare time together. They were pretty poor, I fancy,
from all Mr. Lockwood has told me, but they were very ambitious. They were--I'm telling you
this, you understand, because it concerns you somewhat: well, more or less. They were great
sportsmen, and whenever they could get away from the law office they would go off shooting.
I think they were fonder of each other than brothers even. I've heard Mr. Lockwood tell of
the days they lay in the rushes along the Chesapeake Bay waiting for duck. He has said often
that they were the happiest hours of his life. That was their greatest pleasure, going off
together after duck or snipe along the Maryland waters. Well, they grew rich and began to know
people; and then they met a girl. It seems they both thought a great deal of her, as half the
New York men did, I am told; and she was the reigning belle and toast, and had other admirers,
and neither met with that favor she showed--well, the man she married, for instance. But for
a while each thought, for some reason or other, that he was especially favored. I don't know
anything about it. Mr. Lockwood never spoke of it to me. But they both fell very deeply in
love with her, and each thought the other disloyal, and so they quarrelled; and--and then,
though the woman married, the two men kept apart. It was the one great passion of their lives,
and both were proud, and each thought the other in the wrong, and so they have kept apart ever
since. And--well, I believe that is all."

Miss Catherwaight had listened in silence and with one little gloved hand tightly clasping
the other.

"Indeed, Mr. Latimer, indeed," she began, tremulously, "I am terribly ashamed of myself. I
seemed to have rushed in where angels fear to tread. I wouldn't meet Mr. Lockwood now for worlds.
Of course I might have known there was a woman in the case, it adds so much to the story. But
I suppose I must give up my medal. I never could tell that story, could I?"

"No," said young Latimer, dryly; "I wouldn't if I were you."

Something in his tone, and something in the fact that he seemed to avoid her eyes, made her
drop the lighter vein in which she had been speaking, and rise to go. There was much that he
had not told her, she suspected, and when she bade him good-by it was with a reserve which
she had not shown at any other time during their interview.

"I wonder who that woman was?" she murmured, as young Latimer turned from the brougham door
and said "Home," to the groom. She thought about it a great deal that afternoon; at times she
repented that she had given up the medal, and at times she blushed that she should have been
carried in her zeal into such an unwarranted intimacy with another's story.

She determined finally to ask her father about it. He would be sure to know, she thought, as
he and Mr. Lockwood were contemporaries. Then she decided finally not to say anything about
it at all, for Mr. Catherwaight did not approve of the collection of dishonored honors as it
was, and she had no desire to prejudice him still further by a recital of her afternoon's adventure,
of which she had no doubt but he would also disapprove. So she was more than usually silent
during the dinner, which was a tete-a-tete family dinner that night, and she allowed her father
to doze after it in the library in his great chair without disturbing him with either questions
or confessions.

They had been sitting there some time, he with his hands folded on the evening paper and with
his eyes closed, when the servant brought in a card and offered it to Mr. Catherwaight. Mr.
Catherwaight fumbled over his glasses, and read the name on the card aloud: "'Mr. Lewis L.
Lockwood.' Dear me!" he said; "what can Mr. Lockwood be calling upon me about?"

Miss Catherwaight sat upright, and reached out for the card with a nervous, gasping little laugh.

"Oh, I think it must be for me," she said; "I'm quite sure it is intended for me. I was at
his office to-day, you see, to return him some keepsake of his that I found in an old curiosity
shop. Something with his name on it that had been stolen from him and pawned. It was just a
trifle. You needn't go down, dear; I'll see him. It was I he asked for, I'm sure; was it not,
Morris?"

Morris was not quite sure; being such an old gentleman, he thought it must be for Mr. Catherwaight
he'd come.

Mr. Catherwaight was not greatly interested. He did not like to disturb his after-dinner nap,
and he settled back in his chair again and refolded his hands.

"I hardly thought he could have come to see me," he murmured, drowsily; "though I used to see
enough and more than enough of Lewis Lockwood once, my dear," he added with a smile, as he
opened his eyes and nodded before he shut them again. "That was before your mother and I were
engaged, and people did say that young Lockwood's chances at that time were as good as mine.
But they weren't, it seems. He was very attentive, though; very attentive."

Miss Catherwaight stood startled and motionless at the door from which she had turned.

"Attentive--to whom?" she asked quickly, and in a very low voice. "To my mother?"

Mr. Catherwaight did not deign to open his eyes this time, but moved his head uneasily as if
he wished to be let alone.

"To your mother, of course, my child," he answered; "of whom else was I speaking?"

Miss Catherwaight went down the stairs to the drawing-room slowly, and paused half-way to allow
this new suggestion to settle in her mind. There was something distasteful to her, something
that seemed not altogether unblamable, in a woman's having two men quarrel about her, neither
of whom was the woman's husband. And yet this girl of whom Latimer had spoken must be her mother,
and she, of course, could do no wrong. It was very disquieting, and she went on down the rest
of the way with one hand resting heavily on the railing and with the other pressed against
her cheeks. She was greatly troubled. It now seemed to her very sad indeed that these two one-time
friends should live in the same city and meet, as they must meet, and not recognize each other.
She argued that her mother must have been very young when it happened, or she would have brought
two such men together again. Her mother could not have known, she told herself; she was not
to blame. For she felt sure that had she herself known of such an accident she would have done
something, said something, to make it right. And she was not half the woman her mother had
been, she was sure of that.

There was something very likable in the old gentleman who came forward to greet her as she
entered the drawing-room; something courtly and of the old school, of which she was so tired
of hearing, but of which she wished she could have seen more in the men she met. Young Mr.
Latimer had accompanied his guardian, exactly why she did not see, but she recognized his presence
slightly. He seemed quite content to remain in the background. Mr. Lockwood, as she had expected,
explained that he had called to thank her for the return of the medal. He had it in his hand
as he spoke, and touched it gently with the tips of his fingers as though caressing it.

"I knew your father very well," said the lawyer, "and I at one time had the honor of being
one of your mother's younger friends. That was before she was married, many years ago." He
stopped and regarded the girl gravely and with a touch of tenderness. "You will pardon an old
man, old enough to be your father, if he says," he went on, "that you are greatly like your
mother, my dear young lady--greatly like. Your mother was very kind to me, and I fear I abused
her kindness; abused it by misunderstanding it. There was a great deal of misunderstanding;
and I was proud, and my friend was proud, and so the misunderstanding continued, until now
it has become irretrievable."

He had forgotten her presence apparently, and was speaking more to himself than to her as he
stood looking down at the medal in his hand.

"You were very thoughtful to give me this," he continued; "it was very good of you. I don't
know why I should keep it though, now, although I was distressed enough when I lost it. But
now it is only a reminder of a time that is past and put away, but which was very, very dear
to me. Perhaps I should tell you that I had a misunderstanding with the friend who gave it
to me, and since then we have never met; have ceased to know each other. But I have always
followed his life as a judge and as a lawyer, and respected him for his own sake as a man.
I cannot tell--I do not know how he feels toward me."

The old lawyer turned the medal over in his hand and stood looking down at it wistfully.

The cynical Miss Catherwaight could not stand it any longer.

"Mr. Lockwood," she said, impulsively, "Mr. Latimer has told me why you and your friend separated,
and I cannot bear to think that it was she--my mother--should have been the cause. She could
not have understood; she must have been innocent of any knowledge of the trouble she had brought
to men who were such good friends of hers and to each other. It seems to me as though my finding
that coin is more than a coincidence. I somehow think that the daughter is to help undo the
harm that her mother has caused--unwittingly caused. Keep the medal and don't give it back
to me, for I am sure your friend has kept his, and I am sure he is still your friend at heart.
Don't think I am speaking hastily or that I am thoughtless in what I am saying, but it seems
to me as if friends--good, true friends--were so few that one cannot let them go without a
word to bring them back. But though I am only a girl, and a very light and unfeeling girl,
some people think, I feel this very much, and I do wish I could bring your old friend back
to you again as I brought back his pledge."

"It has been many years since Henry Burgoyne and I have met," said the old man, slowly, "and
it would be quite absurd to think that he still holds any trace of that foolish, boyish feeling
of loyalty that we once had for each other. Yet I will keep this, if you will let me, and I
thank you, my dear young lady, for what you have said. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
You are as good and as kind as your mother was, and--I can say nothing, believe me, in higher
praise."

He rose slowly and made a movement as if to leave the room, and then, as if the excitement
of this sudden return into the past could not be shaken off so readily, he started forward
with a move of sudden determination.

"I think," he said, "I will go to Henry Burgoyne's house at once, to- night. I will act on
what you have suggested. I will see if this has or has not been one long, unprofitable mistake.
If my visit should be fruitless, I will send you this coin to add to your collection of dishonored
honors, but if it should result as I hope it may, it will be your doing, Miss Catherwaight,
and two old men will have much to thank you for. Good-night," he said as he bowed above her
hand, "and-- God bless you!"

Miss Catherwaight flushed slightly at what he had said, and sat looking down at the floor for
a moment after the door had closed behind him.

Young Mr. Latimer moved uneasily in his chair. The routine of the office had been strangely
disturbed that day, and he now failed to recognize in the girl before him with reddened cheeks
and trembling eyelashes the cold, self-possessed young woman of society whom he had formerly known.

"You have done very well, if you will let me say so," he began, gently. "I hope you are right
in what you said, and that Mr. Lockwood will not meet with a rebuff or an ungracious answer.
Why," he went on quickly, "I have seen him take out his gun now every spring and every fall
for the last ten years and clean and polish it and tell what great shots he and Henry, as he
calls him, used to be. And then he would say he would take a holiday and get off for a little
shooting. But he never went. He would put the gun back into its case again and mope in his
library for days afterward. You see, he never married, and though he adopted me, in a manner,
and is fond of me in a certain way, no one ever took the place in his heart his old friend
had held."

"You will let me know, will you not, at once,--to-night, even,-- whether he succeeds or not?"
said the cynical Miss Catherwaight. "You can understand why I am so deeply interested. I see
now why you said I would not tell the story of that medal. But, after all, it may be the prettiest
story, the only pretty story I have to tell."

Mr. Lockwood had not returned, the man said, when young Latimer reached the home the lawyer
had made for them both. He did not know what to argue from this, but determined to sit up and
wait, and so sat smoking before the fire and listening with his sense of hearing on a strain
for the first movement at the door.

He had not long to wait. The front door shut with a clash, and he heard Mr. Lockwood crossing
the hall quickly to the library, in which he waited. Then the inner door was swung back, and
Mr. Lockwood came in with his head high and his eyes smiling brightly.

There was something in his step that had not been there before, something light and vigorous,
and he looked ten years younger. He crossed the room to his writing-table without speaking
and began tossing the papers about on his desk. Then he closed the rolling-top lid with a snap
and looked up smiling.

"I shall have to ask you to look after things at the office for a little while," he said. "Judge
Burgoyne and I are going to Maryland for a few weeks' shooting."

VAN BIBBER AND THE SWAN-BOATS

It was very hot in the Park, and young Van Bibber, who has a good heart and a great deal more
money than good-hearted people generally get, was cross and somnolent. He had told his groom
to bring a horse he wanted to try to the Fifty-ninth Street entrance at ten o'clock, and the
groom had not appeared. Hence Van Bibber's crossness.

He waited as long as his dignity would allow, and then turned off into a by-lane end dropped
on a bench and looked gloomily at the Lohengrin swans with the paddle-wheel attachment that
circle around the lake. They struck him as the most idiotic inventions he had ever seen, and
he pitied, with the pity of a man who contemplates crossing the ocean to be measured for his
fall clothes, the people who could find delight in having some one paddle them around an artificial
lake.

Two little girls from the East Side, with a lunch basket, and an older girl with her hair down
her back, sat down on a bench beside him and gazed at the swans.

The place was becoming too popular, and Van Bibber decided to move on. But the bench on which
he sat was in the shade, and the asphalt walk leading to the street was in the sun, and his
cigarette was soothing, so he ignored the near presence of the three little girls, and remained
where he was.

"I s'pose," said one of the two little girls, in a high, public school voice, "there's lots
to see from those swan-boats that youse can't see from the banks."

"Oh, lots," assented the girl with long hair.

"If you walked all round the lake, clear all the way round, you could see all there is to see,"
said the third, "except what there's in the middle where the island is."

"I guess it's mighty wild on that island," suggested the youngest.

"Eddie Case he took a trip around the lake on a swan-boat the other day. He said that it was
grand. He said youse could see fishes and ducks, and that it looked just as if there were snakes
and things on the island."

"What sort of things?" asked the other one, in a hushed voice.

"Well, wild things," explained the elder, vaguely; "bears and animals like that, that grow
in wild places."

Van Bibber lit a fresh cigarette, and settled himself comfortably and unreservedly to listen.

"My, but I'd like to take a trip just once," said the youngest, under her breath. Then she
clasped her fingers together and looked up anxiously at the elder girl, who glanced at her
with severe reproach.

"Why, Mame!" she said; "ain't you ashamed! Ain't you having a good time 'nuff without wishing
for everything you set your eyes on?"

Van Bibber wondered at this--why humans should want to ride around on the swans in the first
place, and why, if they had such a wild desire, they should not gratify it.

"Why, it costs more'n it costs to come all the way up town in an open car," added the elder
girl, as if in answer to his unspoken question.

The younger girl sighed at this, and nodded her head in submission, but blinked longingly at
the big swans and the parti-colored awning and the red seats.

"I beg your pardon," said Van Bibber, addressing himself uneasily to the eldest girl with long
hair, "but if the little girl would like to go around in one of those things, and--and hasn't
brought the change with her, you know, I'm sure I should be very glad if she'd allow me to
send her around."

"Oh! will you?" exclaimed the little girl, with a jump, and so sharply and in such a shrill
voice that Van Bibber shuddered. But the elder girl objected.

"I'm afraid maw wouldn't like our taking money from any one we didn't know," she said with
dignity; "but if you're going anyway and want company--"

"Oh! my, no," said Van Bibber, hurriedly. He tried to picture himself riding around the lake
behind a tin swan with three little girls from the East Side, and a lunch basket.

"Then," said the head of the trio, "we can't go."

There was such a look of uncomplaining acceptance of this verdict on the part of the two little
girls, that Van Bibber felt uncomfortable. He looked to the right and to the left, and then
said desperately, "Well, come along." The young man in a blue flannel shirt, who did the paddling,
smiled at Van Bibber's riding-breeches, which were so very loose at one end and so very tight
at the other, and at his gloves and crop. But Van Bibber pretended not to care. The three little
girls placed the awful lunch basket on the front seat and sat on the middle one, and Van Bibber
cowered in the back. They were hushed in silent ecstasy when it started, and gave little gasps
of pleasure when it careened slightly in turning. It was shady under the awning, and the motion
was pleasant enough, but Van Bibber was so afraid some one would see him that he failed to
enjoy it.

But as soon as they passed into the narrow straits and were shut in by the bushes and were
out of sight of the people, he relaxed, and began to play the host. He pointed out the fishes
among the rocks at the edges of the pool, and the sparrows and robins bathing and ruffling
their feathers in the shallow water, and agreed with them about the possibility of bears, and
even tigers, in the wild part of the island, although the glimpse of the gray helmet of a Park
policeman made such a supposition doubtful.

And it really seemed as though they were enjoying it more than he ever enjoyed a trip up the
Sound on a yacht or across the ocean on a record-breaking steamship. It seemed long enough
before they got back to Van Bibber, but his guests were evidently but barely satisfied. Still,
all the goodness in his nature would not allow him to go through that ordeal again.

He stepped out of the boat eagerly and helped out the girl with long hair as though she had
been a princess and tipped the rude young man who had laughed at him, but who was perspiring
now with the work he had done; and then as he turned to leave the dock he came face to face
with A Girl He Knew and Her brother.

Her brother said, "How're you, Van Bibber? Been taking a trip around the world in eighty minutes?"
And added in a low voice, "Introduce me to your young lady friends from Hester Street."

"Ah, how're you--quite a surprise!" gasped Van Bibber, while his late guests stared admiringly
at the pretty young lady in the riding-habit, and utterly refused to move on. "Been taking
ride on the lake," stammered Van Bibber; "most exhilarating. Young friends of mine--these young
ladies never rode on lake, so I took 'em. Did you see me?"

"Oh, yes, we saw you," said Her brother, dryly, while she only smiled at him, but so kindly
and with such perfect understanding that Van Bibber grew red with pleasure and bought three
long strings of tickets for the swans at some absurd discount, and gave each little girl a string.

"There," said Her brother to the little ladies from Hester Street, "now you can take trips
for a week without stopping. Don't try to smuggle in any laces, and don't forget to fee the
smoking-room steward."

The Girl He Knew said they were walking over to the stables, and that he had better go get
his other horse and join her, which was to be his reward for taking care of the young ladies.
And the three little girls proceeded to use up the yards of tickets so industriously that they
were sunburned when they reached the tenement, and went to bed dreaming of a big white swan,
and a beautiful young gentleman in patent-leather riding-boots and baggy breeches.

VAN BIBBER'S BURGLAR

There had been a dance up town, but as Van Bibber could not find Her there, he accepted young
Travers's suggestion to go over to Jersey City and see a "go" between "Dutchy" Mack and a colored
person professionally known as the Black Diamond. They covered up all signs of their evening
dress with their great-coats, and filled their pockets with cigars, for the smoke which surrounds
a "go" is trying to sensitive nostrils, and they also fastened their watches to both key- chains.
Alf Alpin, who was acting as master of ceremonies, was greatly pleased and flattered at their
coming, and boisterously insisted on their sitting on the platform. The fact was generally
circulated among the spectators that the "two gents in high hats" had come in a carriage, and
this and their patent-leather boots made them objects of keen interest. It was even whispered
that they were the "parties" who were putting up the money to back the Black Diamond against
the "Hester Street Jackson." This in itself entitled them to respect. Van Bibber was asked
to hold the watch, but he wisely declined the honor, which was given to Andy Spielman, the
sporting reporter of the Track and Ring, whose watch-case was covered with diamonds, and was
just the sort of a watch a timekeeper should hold.

It was two o'clock before "Dutchy" Mack's backer threw the sponge into the air, and three before
they reached the city. They had another reporter in the cab with them besides the gentleman
who had bravely held the watch in the face of several offers to "do for" him; and as Van Bibber
was ravenously hungry, and as he doubted that he could get anything at that hour at the club,
they accepted Spielman's invitation and went for a porterhouse steak and onions at the Owl's
Nest, Gus McGowan's all-night restaurant on Third Avenue.

It was a very dingy, dirty place, but it was as warm as the engine- room of a steamboat, and
the steak was perfectly done and tender. It was too late to go to bed, so they sat around the
table, with their chairs tipped back and their knees against its edge. The two club men had
thrown off their great-coats, and their wide shirt fronts and silk facings shone grandly in
the smoky light of the oil lamps and the red glow from the grill in the corner. They talked
about the life the reporters led, and the Philistines asked foolish questions, which the gentleman
of the press answered without showing them how foolish they were.

"And I suppose you have all sorts of curious adventures," said Van Bibber, tentatively.

"Well, no, not what I would call adventures," said one of the reporters. "I have never seen
anything that could not be explained or attributed directly to some known cause, such as crime
or poverty or drink. You may think at first that you have stumbled on something strange and
romantic, but it comes to nothing. You would suppose that in a great city like this one would
come across something that could not be explained away something mysterious or out of the common,
like Stevenson's Suicide Club. But I have not found it so. Dickens once told James Payn that
the most curious thing he ever saw In his rambles around London was a ragged man who stood
crouching under the window of a great house where the owner was giving a ball. While the man
hid beneath a window on the ground floor, a woman wonderfully dressed and very beautiful raised
the sash from the inside and dropped her bouquet down into the man's hand, and he nodded and
stuck it under his coat and ran off with it.

"I call that, now, a really curious thing to see. But I have never come across anything like
it, and I have been in every part of this big city, and at every hour of the night and morning,
and I am not lacking in imagination either, but no captured maidens have ever beckoned to me
from barred windows nor 'white hands waved from a passing hansom.' Balzac and De Musset and
Stevenson suggest that they have had such adventures, but they never come to me. It is all
commonplace and vulgar, and always ends in a police court or with a 'found drowned' in the
North River."

McGowan, who had fallen into a doze behind the bar, woke suddenly and shivered and rubbed his
shirt-sleeves briskly. A woman knocked at the side door and begged for a drink "for the love
of heaven," and the man who tended the grill told her to be off. They could hear her feeling
her way against the wall and cursing as she staggered out of the alley. Three men came in with
a hack driver and wanted everybody to drink with them, and became insolent when the gentlemen
declined, and were in consequence hustled out one at a time by McGowan, who went to sleep again
immediately, with his head resting among the cigar boxes and pyramids of glasses at the back
of the bar, and snored.

"You see," said the reporter, "it is all like this. Night in a great city is not picturesque
and it is not theatrical. It is sodden, sometimes brutal, exciting enough until you get used
to it, but it runs in a groove. It is dramatic, but the plot is old and the motives and characters
always the same."

The rumble of heavy market wagons and the rattle of milk carts told them that it was morning,
and as they opened the door the cold fresh air swept into the place and made them wrap their
collars around their throats and stamp their feet. The morning wind swept down the cross- street
from the East River and the lights of the street lamps and of the saloon looked old and tawdry.
Travers and the reporter went off to a Turkish bath, and the gentleman who held the watch,
and who had been asleep for the last hour, dropped into a nighthawk and told the man to drive
home. It was almost clear now and very cold, and Van Bibber determined to walk. He had the
strange feeling one gets when one stays up until the sun rises, of having lost a day somewhere,
and the dance he had attended a few hours before seemed to have come off long ago, and the
fight in Jersey City was far back in the past.

The houses along the cross-street through which he walked were as dead as so many blank walls,
and only here and there a lace curtain waved out of the open window where some honest citizen
was sleeping. The street was quite deserted; not even a cat or a policeman moved on it and
Van Bibber's footsteps sounded brisk on the sidewalk. There was a great house at the corner
of the avenue and the cross-street on which he was walking. The house faced the avenue and
a stone wall ran back to the brown stone stable which opened on the side street. There was
a door in this wall, and as Van Bibber approached it on his solitary walk it opened cautiously,
and a man's head appeared in it for an instant and was withdrawn again like a flash, and the
door snapped to. Van Bibber stopped and looked at the door and at the house and up and down
the street. The house was tightly closed, as though some one was lying inside dead, and the
streets were still empty.

Van Bibber could think of nothing in his appearance so dreadful as to frighten an honest man,
so he decided the face he had had a glimpse of must belong to a dishonest one. It was none
of his business, he assured himself, but it was curious, and he liked adventure, and he would
have liked to prove his friend the reporter, who did not believe in adventure, in the wrong.
So he approached the door silently, and jumped and caught at the top of the wall and stuck
one foot on the handle of the door, and, with the other on the knocker, drew himself up and
looked cautiously down on the other side. He had done this so lightly that the only noise he
made was the rattle of the door-knob on which his foot had rested, and the man inside thought
that the one outside was trying to open the door, and placed his shoulder to it and pressed
against it heavily. Van Bibber, from his perch on the top of the wall, looked down directly
on the other's head and shoulders. He could see the top of the man's head only two feet below,
and he also saw that in one hand he held a revolver and that two bags filled with projecting
articles of different sizes lay at his feet.

It did not need explanatory notes to tell Van Bibber that the man below had robbed the big
house on the corner, and that if it had not been for his having passed when he did the burglar
would have escaped with his treasure. His first thought was that he was not a policeman, and
that a fight with a burglar was not in his line of life; and this was followed by the thought
that though the gentleman who owned the property in the two bags was of no interest to him,
he was, as a respectable member of society, more entitled to consideration than the man with
the revolver.

The fact that he was now, whether he liked it or not, perched on the top of the wall like Humpty
Dumpty, and that the burglar might see him and shoot him the next minute, had also an immediate
influence on his movements. So he balanced himself cautiously and noiselessly and dropped upon
the man's head and shoulders, bringing him down to the flagged walk with him and under him.
The revolver went off once in the struggle, but before the burglar could know how or from where
his assailant had come, Van Bibber was standing up over him and had driven his heel down on
his hand and kicked the pistol out of his fingers. Then he stepped quickly to where it lay
and picked it up and said, "Now, if you try to get up I'll shoot at you." He felt an unwarranted
and ill-timedly humorous inclination to add, "and I'll probably miss you," but subdued it.
The burglar, much to Van Bibber's astonishment, did not attempt to rise, but sat up with his
hands locked across his knees and said: "Shoot ahead. I'd a damned sight rather you would."

His teeth were set and his face desperate and bitter, and hopeless to a degree of utter hopelessness
that Van Bibber had never imagined.

"Go ahead," reiterated the man, doggedly, "I won't move. Shoot me."

It was a most unpleasant situation. Van Bibber felt the pistol loosening in his hand, and he
was conscious of a strong inclination to lay it down and ask the burglar to tell him all about it.

"You haven't got much heart," said Van Bibber, finally. "You're a pretty poor sort of a burglar,
I should say."

"What's the use?" said the man, fiercely. "I won't go back--I won't go back there alive. I've
served my time forever in that hole. If I have to go back again--s'help me if I don't do for
a keeper and die for it. But I won't serve there no more."

"Go back where?" asked Van Bibber, gently, and greatly interested; "to prison?"

"To prison, yes!" cried the man, hoarsely: "to a grave. That's where. Look at my face," he
said, "and look at my hair. That ought to tell you where I've been. With all the color gone
out of my skin, and all the life out of my legs. You needn't be afraid of me. I couldn't hurt
you if I wanted to. I'm a skeleton and a baby, I am. I couldn't kill a cat. And now you're
going to send me back again for another lifetime. For twenty years, this time, into that cold,
forsaken hole, and after I done my time so well and worked so hard." Van Bibber shifted the
pistol from one hand to the other and eyed his prisoner doubtfully.

"How long have you been out?" he asked, seating himself on the steps of the kitchen and holding
the revolver between his knees. The sun was driving the morning mist away, and he had forgotten
the cold.

"I got out yesterday," said the man.

Van Bibber glanced at the bags and lifted the revolver. "You didn't waste much time," he said.

"No," answered the man, sullenly, "no, I didn't. I knew this place and I wanted money to get
West to my folks, and the Society said I'd have to wait until I earned it, and I couldn't wait.
I haven't seen my wife for seven years, nor my daughter. Seven years, young man; think of that--seven
years. Do you know how long that is? Seven years without seeing your wife or your child! And
they're straight people, they are," he added, hastily. "My wife moved West after I was put
away and took another name, and my girl never knew nothing about me. She thinks I'm away at
sea. I was to join 'em. That was the plan. I was to join 'em, and I thought I could lift enough
here to get the fare, and now," he added, dropping his face in his hands, "I've got to go back.
And I had meant to live straight after I got West,--God help me, but I did! Not that it makes
much difference now. An' I don't care whether you believe it or not neither," he added, fiercely.

"I didn't say whether I believed it or not," answered Van Bibber, with grave consideration.

He eyed the man for a brief space without speaking, and the burglar looked back at him, doggedly
and defiantly, and with not the faintest suggestion of hope in his eyes, or of appeal for mercy.
Perhaps it was because of this fact, or perhaps it was the wife and child that moved Van Bibber,
but whatever his motives were, he acted on them promptly. "I suppose, though," he said, as
though speaking to himself, "that I ought to give you up."

"I'll never go back alive," said the burglar, quietly.

"Well, that's bad, too," said Van Bibber. "Of course I don't know whether you're lying or not,
and as to your meaning to live honestly, I very much doubt it; but I'll give you a ticket to
wherever your wife is, and I'll see you on the train. And you can get off at the next station
and rob my house to-morrow night, if you feel that way about it. Throw those bags inside that
door where the servant will see them before the milkman does, and walk on out ahead of me,
and keep your hands in your pockets, and don't try to run. I have your pistol, you know."

The man placed the bags inside the kitchen door; and, with a doubtful look at his custodian,
stepped out into the street, and walked, as he was directed to do, toward the Grand Central
station. Van Bibber kept just behind him, and kept turning the question over in his mind as
to what he ought to do. He felt very guilty as he passed each policeman, but he recovered himself
when he thought of the wife and child who lived in the West, and who were "straight."

"Where to?" asked Van Bibber, as he stood at the ticket-office window. "Helena, Montana," answered
the man with, for the first time, a look of relief. Van Bibber bought the ticket and handed
it to the burglar. "I suppose you know," he said, "that you can sell that at a place down town
for half the money." "Yes, I know that," said the burglar. There was a half-hour before the
train left, and Van Bibber took his charge into the restaurant and watched him eat everything
placed before him, with his eyes glancing all the while to the right or left. Then Van Bibber
gave him some money and told him to write to him, and shook hands with him. The man nodded
eagerly and pulled off his hat as the car drew out of the station; and Van Bibber came down
town again with the shop girls and clerks going to work, still wondering if he had done the
right thing.

He went to his rooms and changed his clothes, took a cold bath, and crossed over to Delmonico's
for his breakfast, and, while the waiter laid the cloth in the cafe, glanced at the headings
in one of the papers. He scanned first with polite interest the account of the dance on the
night previous and noticed his name among those present. With greater interest he read of the
fight between "Dutchy" Mack and the "Black Diamond," and then he read carefully how "Abe" Hubbard,
alias "Jimmie the Gent," a burglar, had broken jail in New Jersey, and had been traced to New
York. There was a description of the man, and Van Bibber breathed quickly as he read it. "The
detectives have a clew of his whereabouts," the account said; "if he is still in the city they
are confident of recapturing him. But they fear that the same friends who helped him to break
jail will probably assist him from the country or to get out West."

"They may do that," murmured Van Bibber to himself, with a smile of grim contentment; "they
probably will."

Then he said to the waiter, "Oh, I don't know. Some bacon and eggs and green things and coffee."

VAN BIBBER AS BEST MAN

Young Van Bibber came up to town in June from Newport to see his lawyer about the preparation
of some papers that needed his signature. He found the city very hot and close, and as dreary
and as empty as a house that has been shut up for some time while its usual occupants are away
in the country.

As he had to wait over for an afternoon train, and as he was down town, he decided to lunch
at a French restaurant near Washington Square, where some one had told him you could get particular
things particularly well cooked. The tables were set on a terrace with plants and flowers about
them, and covered with a tricolored awning. There were no jangling horse-car bells nor dust
to disturb him, and almost all the other tables were unoccupied. The waiters leaned against
these tables and chatted in a French argot; and a cool breeze blew through the plants and billowed
the awning, so that, on the whole, Van Bibber was glad he had come.

There was, beside himself, an old Frenchman scolding over his late breakfast; two young artists
with Van Dyke beards, who ordered the most remarkable things in the same French argot that
the waiters spoke; and a young lady and a young gentleman at the table next to his own. The
young man's back was toward him, and he could only see the girl when the youth moved to one
side. She was very young and very pretty, and she seemed in a most excited state of mind from
the tip of her wide-brimmed, pointed French hat to the points of her patent- leather ties.
She was strikingly well-bred in appearance, and Van Bibber wondered why she should be dining
alone with so young a man.

"It wasn't my fault," he heard the youth say earnestly. "How could I know he would be out of
town? and anyway it really doesn't matter. Your cousin is not the only clergyman in the city."

"Of course not," said the girl, almost tearfully, "but they're not my cousins and he is, and
that would have made it so much, oh, so very much different. I'm awfully frightened!"

"Runaway couple," commented Van Bibber. "Most interesting. Read about 'em often; never seen
'em. Most interesting."

He bent his head over an entree, but he could not help hearing what followed, for the young
runaways were indifferent to all around them, and though he rattled his knife and fork in a
most vulgar manner, they did not heed him nor lower their voices.

"Well, what are you going to do?" said the girl, severely but not unkindly. "It doesn't seem
to me that you are exactly rising to the occasion."

"Well, I don't know," answered the youth, easily. "We're safe here anyway. Nobody we know ever
comes here, and if they did they are out of town now. You go on and eat something, and I'll
get a directory and look up a lot of clergymen's addresses, and then we can make out a list
and drive around in a cab until we find one who has not gone off on his vacation. We ought
to be able to catch the Fall River boat back at five this afternoon; then we can go right on
to Boston from Fall River to-morrow morning and run down to Narragansett during the day."

"They'll never forgive us," said the girl.

"Oh, well, that's all right," exclaimed the young man, cheerfully. "Really, you're the most
uncomfortable young person I ever ran away with. One might think you were going to a funeral.
You were willing enough two days ago, and now you don't help me at all. Are you sorry?" he
asked, and then added, "but please don't say so, even if you are."

"No, not sorry, exactly," said the girl; "but, indeed, Ted, it is going to make so much talk.
If we only had a girl with us, or if you had a best man, or if we had witnesses, as they do
in England, and a parish registry, or something of that sort; or if Cousin Harold had only
been at home to do the marrying."

The young gentleman called Ted did not look, judging from the expression of his shoulders,
as if he were having a very good time.

He picked at the food on his plate gloomily, and the girl took out her handkerchief and then
put it resolutely back again and smiled at him. The youth called the waiter and told him to
bring a directory, and as he turned to give the order Van Bibber recognized him and he recognized
Van Bibber. Van Bibber knew him for a very nice boy, of a very good Boston family named Standish,
and the younger of two sons. It was the elder who was Van Bibber's particular friend. The girl
saw nothing of this mutual recognition, for she was looking with startled eyes at a hansom
that had dashed up the side street and was turning the corner.

"Ted, O Ted!" she gasped. "It's your brother. There! In that hansom. I saw him perfectly plainly.
Oh, how did he find us? What shall we do?"

Ted grew very red and then very white.

"Standish," said Van Bibber, jumping up and reaching for his hat, "pay this chap for these
things, will you, and I'll get rid of your brother."

Van Bibber descended the steps lighting a cigar as the elder Standish came up them on a jump.

"Hello, Standish!" shouted the New Yorker. "Wait a minute; where are you going? Why, it seems
to rain Standishes to-day! First see your brother; then I see you. What's on?"

"You've seen him?" cried the Boston man, eagerly. "Yes, and where is he? Was she with him?
Are they married? Am I in time?"

Van Bibber answered these different questions to the effect that he had seen young Standish
and Mrs. Standish not a half an hour before, and that they were just then taking a cab for
Jersey City, whence they were to depart for Chicago.

"The driver who brought them here, and who told me where they were, said they could not have
left this place by the time I would reach it," said the elder brother, doubtfully.

"That's so," said the driver of the cab, who had listened curiously. "I brought 'em here not
more'n half an hour ago. Just had time to get back to the depot. They can't have gone long."

"Yes, but they have," said Van Bibber. "However, if you get over to Jersey City in time for
the 2.30, you can reach Chicago almost as soon as they do. They are going to the Palmer House,
they said."

"Thank you, old fellow," shouted Standish, jumping back into his hansom. "It's a terrible business.
Pair of young fools. Nobody objected to the marriage, only too young, you know. Ever so much
obliged."

"Don't mention it," said Van Bibber, politely.

"Now, then," said that young man, as he approached the frightened couple trembling on the terrace,
"I've sent your brother off to Chicago. I do not know why I selected Chicago as a place where
one would go on a honeymoon. But I'm not used to lying and I'm not very good at it. Now, if
you will introduce me, I'll see what can be done toward getting you two babes out of the woods."

Standish said, "Miss Cambridge, this is Mr. Cortlandt Van Bibber, of whom you have heard my
brother speak," and Miss Cambridge said she was very glad to meet Mr. Van Bibber even under
such peculiarly trying circumstances.

"Now what you two want to do," said Van Bibber, addressing them as though they were just about
fifteen years old and he were at least forty, "is to give this thing all the publicity you can."

"What?" chorused the two runaways, in violent protest.

"Certainly," said Van Bibber. "You were about to make a fatal mistake. You were about to go
to some unknown clergyman of an unknown parish, who would have married you in a back room,
without a certificate or a witness, just like any eloping farmer's daughter and lightning-rod
agent. Now it's different with you two. Why you were not married respectably in church I don't
know, and I do not intend to ask, but a kind Providence has sent me to you to see that there
is no talk nor scandal, which is such bad form, and which would have got your names into all
the papers. I am going to arrange this wedding properly, and you will kindly remain here until
I send a carriage for you. Now just rely on me entirely and eat your luncheon in peace. It's
all going to come out right--and allow me to recommend the salad, which is especially good."

Van Bibber first drove madly to the Little Church Around the Corner, where he told the kind
old rector all about it, and arranged to have the church open and the assistant organist in
her place, and a district-messenger boy to blow the bellows, punctually at three o'clock. "And
now," he soliloquized, "I must get some names. It doesn't matter much whether they happen to
know the high contracting parties or not, but they must be names that everybody knows. Whoever
is in town will be lunching at Delmonico's, and the men will be at the clubs." So he first
went to the big restaurant, where, as good luck would have it, he found Mrs. "Regy" Van Arnt
and Mrs. "Jack" Peabody, and the Misses Brookline, who had run up the Sound for the day on
the yacht Minerva of the Boston Yacht Club, and he told them how things were and swore them
to secrecy, and told them to bring what men they could pick up.

At the club he pressed four men into service who knew everybody and whom everybody knew, and
when they protested that they had not been properly invited and that they only knew the bride
and groom by sight, he told them that made no difference, as it was only their names he wanted.
Then he sent a messenger boy to get the biggest suit of rooms on the Fall River boat and another
one for flowers, and then he put Mrs. "Regy" Van Arnt into a cab and sent her after the bride,
and, as best man, he got into another cab and carried off the groom.

"I have acted either as best man or usher forty-two times now," said Van Bibber, as they drove
to the church, "and this is the first time I ever appeared in either capacity in russia-leather
shoes and a blue serge yachting suit. But then," he added, contentedly, "you ought to see the
other fellows. One of them is in a striped flannel."

Mrs. "Regy" and Miss Cambridge wept a great deal on the way up town, but the bride was smiling
and happy when she walked up the aisle to meet her prospective husband, who looked exceedingly
conscious before the eyes of the men, all of whom he knew by sight or by name, and not one
of whom he had ever met before. But they all shook hands after it was over, and the assistant
organist played the Wedding March, and one of the club men insisted in pulling a cheerful and
jerky peal on the church bell in the absence of the janitor, and then Van Bibber hurled an
old shoe and a handful of rice--which he had thoughtfully collected from the chef at the club--after
them as they drove off to the boat.

"Now," said Van Bibber, with a proud sigh of relief and satisfaction, "I will send that to
the papers, and when it is printed to-morrow it will read like one of the most orthodox and
one of the smartest weddings of the season. And yet I can't help thinking--"

"Well?" said Mrs. "Regy," as he paused doubtfully.

"Well, I can't help thinking," continued Van Bibber, "of Standish's older brother racing around
Chicago with the thermometer at 102 in the shade. I wish I had only sent him to Jersey City.
It just shows," he added, mournfully, "that when a man is not practised in lying, he should
leave it alone."

