Noon found him on the highway again, his business transacted, his affairs settled, Zarathustra
sitting beside him on the seat. One o'clock found him driving into Valleyview; two-five found
him turning down a familiar street. He would have to leave his car behind him, but that was
all right. Leaving it to rust away in a ghost town was better than selling it to some opportunistic
dealer for a sum he would have no use for anyway. He parked it by the curb, and after getting
his suitcase out of the trunk, walked up to the front door of Number 23. He unlocked and opened
the door, and after Zarathustra followed him inside, closed and locked it behind him. He strode
through the house to the kitchen. He unlocked and opened the back door. He stepped eagerly
across the threshold--and stopped dead still.

There were boards beneath his feet instead of grass. Instead of a flower-pied plain, he saw
a series of unkempt back yards. Beside him on an unpainted trellis, Virginia creeper rattled
in an October wind.

Zarathustra came out behind him, descended the back-porch steps and ran around the side of
the house. Looking for the green-rose bush probably.

"Ruf!"

Zarathustra had returned and was looking up at him from the bottom step. On the top step he
had placed an offering.

The offering was a green rose.

Philip bent down and picked it up. It was fresh, and its fragrance epitomized the very essence
of Sirius XXI. "Zarathustra," he gasped, "where did you get it?"

"Ruf!" said Zarathustra, and ran around the side of the house.

Philip followed, rounded the corner just in time to see the white-tipped tail disappear into
the ancient dog house. Disappointment numbed him. That was where the rose had been then--stored
away for safe-keeping like an old and worthless bone.

But the rose was fresh, he reminded himself.

Did dog houses have back doorways?

This one did, he saw, kneeling down and peering inside. A lovely back doorway, rimmed with
shimmering blue. It framed a familiar vista, in the foreground of which a familiar green-rosebush
stood. Beneath the rosebush Zarathustra sat, wagging his tail.

It was a tight squeeze, but Philip made it. He even managed to get his suitcase through. And
just in time too, for hardly had he done so when the doorway began to flicker. Now it was on
its way out, and as he watched, it faded into transparency and disappeared.

He crawled from beneath the rosebush and stood up. The day was bright and warm, and the position
of the sun indicated early morning or late afternoon. No, not sun--suns. One of them was a
brilliant blue-white orb, the other a twinkling point of light.

He set off across the plain in Zarathustra's wake. He had a speech already prepared, and when
Judith met him at the gate with wide and wondering eyes, he delivered it without preamble.
"Judith," he said, "I am contemptuous of the notion that some things are meant to be and others
aren't, and I firmly believe in my own free will; but when your dog stows away in the back
seat of my car two times running and makes it impossible for me not to see you again, then
there must be something afoot which neither you nor I can do a thing about. Whatever it is,
I have given in to it and have transferred your real estate to an agent more trustworthy than
myself. I know you haven't known me long, and I know I'm not an accepted member of your group,
but maybe somebody will give me a job raking lawns or washing windows or hoeing corn long enough
for me to prove that I am not in the least antisocial; and maybe, in time, you yourself will
get to know me well enough to realize that while I have a weakness for blondes who look like
Grecian goddesses, I have no taste whatever for redheads, brunettes, or Cutty Sark.