This eBook was transcribed by M.R.J.

THE EYE OF ZEITOON By Talbot Mundy

Author of  Rung Ho,  King--of the Khyber Rifles,  Hira Singh, The Ivory Trail, etc.

CONTENTS

Chapter                                                      Page

I  Parthians, Medes and Elamites .............................. 1
II  "How did sunshine get into the garden?  By whose leave came
      the wind?" .............................................. 21
III  "Sahib, there is always work for real soldiers!" ......... 40
IV  "We are the robbers, effendi!" ............................ 52
V  "Effendi, that is the heart of Armenia burning!" ........... 74
VI   "Passing the buck to Allah!" ............................. 91
VII  "We hold you to your word!" .............................. 118
VIII  "I go with that man!" ................................... 128
IX   "And you left your friend to help me?" ................... 142
X  "When I fire this pistol--" ................................ 163
XI   "That man's dose is death, and he dies unshriven!" ....... 176
XII   "America's way with a woman is beyond belief!" .......... 195
XIII   " 'Take your squadron and go find him, Rustum Khan!'
      And I, sahib, obeyed my lord bahadur's orders." ......... 211
XIV  "Rajput, I shall hang you if you make more trouble!"...... 229
XV  "Scenery to burst the heart!" ............................. 243
XVI  "What care I for my belly, sahib, if you break my heart?"  257
XVII  "I knew what to expect of the women!"  .................. 277
XVIII  "Per terram et aquam" .................................. 290
XIX  "Such drilling as they have had--such little drilling!" .. 303
XX  "So few against so many!  I see death, and I am not sorry!" 316
XXI  "Those who survive this night shall have brave memories!". 333
XXII  "God go with you to the States, effendim!" .............. 349

Chapter One Parthians, Medes and Elamites

SALVETE!

Oh ye, who tread the trodden path And keep the narrow law In famished faith that Judgment Day
Shall blast your sluggard mists away And show what Moses saw! Oh thralls of subdivided time,
Hours Measureless I sing That own swift ways to wider scenes, New-plucked from heights where
Vision preens A white, unwearied wing! No creed I preach to bend dull thought To see what I
shall show, Nor can ye buy with treasured gold The key to these Hours that unfold New tales
no teachers know. Ye'll need no leave o' the laws o' man, For Vision's wings are free; The
swift Unmeasured Hours are kind And ye shall leave all cares behind If ye will come with me!
In vain shall lumps of fashioned stuff Imprison you about; In vain let pundits preach the flesh
And feebling limits that enmesh Your goings in and out, I know the way the zephyrs took Who
brought the breath of spring, I guide to shores of regions blest Where white, uncaught Ideas
nest And Thought is strong o' wing! Within the Hours that I unlock All customed fetters fall;
The chains of drudgery release; Set limits fade; horizons cease For you who hear the call No
trumpet note--no roll of drums, But quiet, sure and sweet-- The self-same voice that summoned
Drake, The whisper for whose siren sake They manned the Devon fleet, More lawless than the
gray gull's wait, More boundless than the sea, More subtle than the softest wind!

 * * * * * *

Oh, ye shall burst the ties that bind If ye will come with me!

It is written with authority of Tarsus that once it was no mean city, but that is a tale of
nineteen centuries ago.  The Turko-Italian War had not been fought when Fred Oakes took the
fever of the place, although the stage was pretty nearly set for it and most of the leading
actors were waiting for their cue.  No more history was needed than to grind away forgotten
loveliness.

Fred's is the least sweet temper in the universe when the ague grips and shakes him, and he
knows history as some men know the Bible--by fathoms;  he cursed the place conqueror by conqueror,
maligning them for their city's sake, and if Sennacherib, who built the first foundations,
and if Anthony and Cleopatra, Philip of Macedon, Timour-i-lang, Mahmoud, Ibrahim and all the
rest of them could have come and listened by his bedside they would have heard more personal
scandal of themselves than ever their contemporary chroniclers dared reveal.

All this because he insisted on ignoring the history he knew so well, and could not be held
from bathing in the River Cydnus. Whatever their indifference to custom, Anthony and Cleopatra
knew better than do that.  Alexander the Great, on the other hand, flouted tradition and set
Fred the example, very nearly dying of the ague for his pains, for those are treacherous, chill
waters.

Fred, being a sober man and unlike Alexander of Macedon in several other ways, throws off fever
marvelously, but takes it as some persons do religion, very severely for a little while.  So
we carried him and laid him on a nice white cot in a nice clean room with two beds in it in
the American mission, where they dispense more than royal hospitality to utter strangers. 
Will Yerkes had friends there but that made no difference;  Fred was quinined, low-dieted,
bathed, comforted and reproved for swearing by a college-educated nurse, who liked his principles
and disapproved of his professions just as frankly as if he came from her hometown.  (Her name
was Van-something-or-other, and you could lean against the Boston accent--just a little lonely-sounding,
but a very rock of gentle independence, all that long way from home!)

Meanwhile, we rested.  That is to say that, after accepting as much mission hospitality as
was decent, considering that every member of the staff worked fourteen hours a day and had
to make up for attention shown to us by long hours bitten out of night, we loafed about the
city.  And Satan still finds mischief.

We called on Fred in the beginning twice a day, morning and evening, but cut the visits short
for the same reason that Monty did not go at all:  when the fever is on him Fred's feelings
toward his own sex are simply blunt bellicose.  When they put another patient in the spare
bed in his room we copied Monty, arguing that one male at a time for him to quarrel with was
plenty.

Monty, being Earl of Montdidier and Kirkudbrightshire, and a privy councilor, was welcome at
the consulate at Mersina, twenty miles away. The consul, like Monty, was an army officer, who
played good chess, so that that was no place, either, for Will Yerkes and me.  Will prefers
dime novels, if he must sit still, and there was none.  And besides, he was never what you
could call really sedative.

He and I took up quarters at the European hotel--no sweet abiding-place. There were beetles
in the Denmark butter that they pushed on to the filthy table-cloth in its original one-pound
tin;  and there was a Turkish officer in riding pants and red morocco slippers, back from the
Yemen with two or three incurable complaints.  He talked out-of-date Turkish politics in bad
French and eked out his ignorance of table manners with instinctive racial habit.

To avoid him between meals Will and I set out to look at the historic sights, and exhausted
them all, real and alleged, in less than half a day (for in addition to a lust for ready-cut
building stone the Turks have never cherished monuments that might accentuate their own decadence).
After that we fossicked in the manner of prospectors that we are by preference, if not always
by trade, eschewing polite society and hunting in the impolite, amusing places where most of
the facts have teeth, sharp and ready to snap, but visible.

We found a khan at last on the outskirts of the city, almost in sight of the railway line,
that well agreed with our frame of mind.  It was none of the newfangled, underdone affairs
that ape hotels, with Greek managers and as many different prices for one service as there
are grades of credulity, but a genuine two-hundred-year-old Turkish place, run by a Turk, and
named Yeni Khan (which means the new rest house) in proof that once the world was younger.
The man who directed us to the place called it a kahveh;  but that means a place for donkeys
and foot-passengers, and when we spoke of it as kahveh to the obadashi-- the elderly youth
who corresponds to porter, bell-boy and chambermaid in one--he was visibly annoyed.

Truly the place was a khan--a great bleak building of four high outer walls, surrounding a
courtyard that was a yard deep with the dung of countless camels, horses, bullocks, asses;
crowded with arabas, the four-wheeled vehicles of all the Near East, and smelly with centuries
of human journeys' ends.

Khans provide nothing except room, heat and water (and the heat costs extra);  there is no
sanitation for any one at any price;  every guest dumps all his discarded rubbish over the
balcony rail into the courtyard, to be trodden and wheeled under foot and help build the aroma.
But the guests provide a picture without price that with the very first glimpse drives discomfort
out of mind.

In that place there were Parthians, Medes and Elamites, and all the rest of the list.  There
was even a Chinaman.  Two Hindus were unpacking bundles out of a creaking araba, watched scornfully
by an unmistakable Pathan.  A fat swarthy-faced Greek in black frock coat and trousers, fez,
and slippered feet gesticulated with his right arm like a pump-handle while he sat on the balcony-rail
and bellowed orders to a crowd mixed of Armenians, Italians, Maltese, Syrians and a Turk or
two, who labored with his bales of cotton goods below.  (The Italians eyed everybody sidewise,
for there were rumors in those days of impending trouble, and when the Turk begins hostilities
he likes his first opponents easy and ready to hand.)

There were Kurds, long-nosed, lean-lipped and suspicious, who said very little, but hugged
long knives as they passed back and forth among the swarming strangers.  They said nothing
at all, those Kurds, but listened a very great deal.

Tall, mustached Circassians, with eighteen-inch Erzerum daggers at their waists, swaggered
about as if they, and only they, were history's heirs.  It was expedient to get out of their
path alertly, but they cringed into second place before the Turks, who, without any swagger
at all, lorded it over every one.  For the Turk is a conqueror, whatever else he ought to be.
The poorest Turkish servant is race-conscious, and unshakably convinced of his own superiority
to the princes of the conquered.  One has to bear that fact in mind when dealing with the Turk;
it colors all his views of life, and accounts for some of his famous unexpectedness.

Will and I fell in love with the crowd, and engaged a room over the great arched entrance.
We were aware from the first of the dull red marks on the walls of the room, where bed-bugs
had been slain with slipper heels by angry owners of the blood;  but we were not in search
of luxury, and we had our belongings and a can of insect-bane brought down from the hotel at
once.  The fact that stallions squealed and fought in the stalls across the courtyard scarcely
promised us uninterrupted sleep;  but sleep is not to be weighed in the balance against the
news of eastern nights.

We went down to the common room close beside the main entrance, and pushed the door open a
little way;  the men who sat within with their backs against it would only yield enough to
pass one person in gingerly at a time.  We saw a sea of heads and hats and faces.  It looked
impossible to squeeze another human being in among those already seated on the floor, nor to
make another voice heard amid all that babel.

But the babel ceased, and they did make room for us--places of honor against the far wall,
because of our clean clothes and nationality. We sat wedged between a Georgian in smelly, greasy
woolen jacket, and a man who looked Persian but talked for the most part French. There were
other Persians beyond him, for I caught the word poul--money, the perennial song and shibboleth
of that folk.

The day was fine enough, but consensus of opinion had it that snow was likely falling in the
Taurus Mountains, and rain would fall the next day between the mountains and the sea, making
roads and fords impassable and the mountain passes risky.  So men from the ends of earth sat
still contentedly, to pass earth's gossip to and fro--an astonishing lot of it.  There was
none of it quite true, and some of it not nearly true, but all of it was based on fact of some
sort.

Men who know the khans well are agreed that with experience one learns to guess the truth from
listening to the ever-changing lies.  We could not hope to pick out truth, but sat as if in
the pit of an old-time theater, watching a foreign-language play and understanding some, but
missing most of it.

There was a man who drew my attention at once, who looked and was dressed rather like a Russian--a
man with a high-bridged, prominent, lean nose--not nearly so bulky as his sheepskin coat suggested,
but active and strong, with a fiery restless eye.  He talked Russian at intervals with the
men who sat near him at the end of the room on our right, but used at least six other languages
with any one who cared to agree or disagree with him.  His rather agreeable voice had the trick
of carrying words distinctly across the din of countless others.

"What do you suppose is that man's nationality?" I asked Will, shouting to him because of the
roar, although he sat next me.

"Ermenie!" said a Turk next but one beyond Will, and spat venomously, as if the very name Armenian
befouled his mouth.

But I was not convinced that the man with the aquiline nose was Armenian. He looked guilty
of altogether too much zest for life, and laughed too boldly in Turkish presence.  In those
days most Armenians thereabouts were sad.  I called Will's attention to him again.

"What do you make of him?"

"He belongs to that quieter party in the opposite corner."  (Will puts two and two together
all the time, because the heroes of dime novels act that way.)       "They're gipsies, yet
I'd say he's not--"

"He and the others are jingaan," said a voice beside me in English, and I looked into the Persian's
gentle brown eyes.  "The jingaan are street robbers pure and simple," be added by way of explanation.

"But what nationality?"

"Jingaan might be anything.  They in particular would call themselves Rommany.  We call them
Zingarri.  Not a dependable people--unless--"

I waited in vain for the qualification.  He shrugged his shoulders, as if there was no sense
in praising evil qualities.

But I was not satisfied yet.  They were swarthier and stockier than the man who had interested
me, and had indefinite, soft eyes.  The man I watched had brown eyes, but they were hard. 
And, unlike them, he had long lean fingers and his gestures were all extravagant. He was not
a Jew, I was sure of that, nor a Syrian, nor yet a Kurd.

"Ermenie--Ermenie!" said the Turk, watching me curiously, and spitting again.  "That one is
Ermenie.  Those others are just dogs!"

The crowd began to thin after a while, as men filed out to feed cattle and to cook their own
evening meal.  Then the perplexing person got up and came over toward me, showing no fear of
the Turk at all. He was tall and lean when he stood upright, but enormously strong if one could
guess correctly through the bulky-looking outer garment.

He stood in front of Will and me, his strong yellow teeth gleaming between a black beard and
mustache.  The Turk got up clumsily, and went out, muttering to himself.  I glanced toward
the corner where the self-evident gipsies sat, and observed that with perfect unanimity they
were all feigning sleep.

"Eenglis sportmen!" said the man in front of us, raising both hands, palms outward, in appraisal
of our clothes and general appearance.

It was not surprising that he should talk English, for what the British themselves have not
accomplished in that land of a hundred tongues has been done by American missionaries, teaching
in the course of a generation thousands on thousands.  (There is none like the American missionary
for attaining ends at wholesale.)

"What countryman are you?" I asked him.

"Zeitoonli," he answered, as if the word were honor itself and explanation bound in one.  Yet
he looked hardly like an honorable man.  "The chilabi are staying here?" he asked.  Chilabi
means gentleman.

"We wait on the weather," said I, not caring to have him turn the tables on me and become interrogator.

He laughed with a sort of hard good humor.

"Since when have Eenglis sportmen waited on the weather?  Ah, but you are right, effendi, none
should tell the truth in this place, unless in hope of being disbelieved!"  He laid a finger
on his right eye, as I have seen Arabs do when they mean to ascribe to themselves unfathomable
cunning.  "Since you entered this common room you have not ceased to observe me closely.  The
other sportman has watched those Zingarri.  What have you learned?"

He stood with lean hands crossed now in front of him, looking at us down his nose, not ceasing
to smile, but a hint less at his ease, a shade less genial.

"I have heard you--and them--described as jingaan," I answered, and he stiffened instantly.

Whether or not they took that for a signal--or perhaps he made another that we did not see--the
six undoubted gipsies got up and left the room, shambling out in single file with the awkward
gait they share in common with red Indians.

"Jingaan," he said, "are people who lurk in shadows of the streets to rob belated travelers.
That is not my business."  He looked very hard indeed at the Persian, who decided that it might
as well be supper-time and rose stiffly to his feet.  The Persians rob and murder, and even
retreat, gracefully.  He bade us a stately and benignant good evening, with a poetic Persian
blessing at the end of it.  He bowed, too, to the Zeitoonli, who bared his teeth and bent his
head forward something less than an inch.

"They call me the Eye of Zeitoon!" he announced with a sort of savage pride, as soon as the
Persian was out of ear-shot.

Will pricked his ears--schoolboy-looking ears that stand out from his head.

"I've heard of Zeitoon.  It's a village on a mountain, where a man steps out of his front door
on to a neighbor's roof, and the women wear no veils, and--"

The man showed his teeth in another yellow smile.

"The effendi is blessed with intelligence!  Few know of Zeitoon."

Will and I exchanged glances.

"Ours," said Will, "is the best room in the khan, over the entrance gate."

"Two such chilabi should surely live like princes," he answered without a smile.  If he had
dared say that and smile we would have struck him, and Monty might have been alive to-day.
But he seemed to know his place, although he looked at us down his nose again in shrewd appraisal.

Will took out tobacco and rolled what in the innocence of his Yankee heart he believed was
a cigarette.  I produced and lit what he contemptuously called a "boughten cigaroot"--Turkish
Regie, with the scent of aboriginal ambrosia.  The Zeitoonli took the hint.

"Yarim sa' at," he said. "Korkakma!"

"Meanin'?" demanded Will.

"In half an hour.  Do not be afraid!" said he.

"Before I grow afraid of you," Will retorted, "you'll need your friends along, and they'll
need knives!"

The Zeitoonli bowed, laid a finger on his eye again, smiled and backed away.  But he did not
leave the room.  He went back to the end-wall against which he had sat before, and although
he did not stare at us the intention not to let us out of sight seemed pretty obvious.

"That half-hour stuff smacked rather of a threat," said Will.  "Suppose we call the bluff,
and keep him waiting.  What do you say if we go and dine at the hotel?"

But in the raw enthusiasm of entering new quarters we had made up our minds that afternoon
to try out our new camp kitchen--a contraption of wood and iron we had built with the aid of
the mission carpenter. And the walk to the hotel would have been a long one, through Tarsus
mud in the dark, with prowling dogs to take account of.

"I'm not afraid of ten of him!" said I.  "I know how to cook curried eggs;  come on!"

"Who said who was afraid?"

So we went out into darkness already jeweled by a hundred lanterns, dodged under the necks
of three hungry Bactrian camels (they are irritable when they want their meal), were narrowly
missed by a mule's heels because of the deceptive shadows that confused his aim, tripped over
a donkey's heel-rope, and found our stairway--thoroughly well cursed in seven languages, and
only just missed by a Georgian gentleman on the balcony, who chose the moment of our passing
underneath to empty out hissing liquid from his cooking pot.

Once in our four-square room, with the rags on the floor in our especial honor, and our beds
set up, and the folding chairs in place, contentment took hold of us;  and as we lighted the
primus burner in the cooking box, we pitied from the bottom of compassionate young hearts all
unfortunates in stiff white shirts, whose dinners were served that night on silver and laundered
linen.

Through the partly open door we could smell everything that ever happened since the beginning
of the world, and hear most of the elemental music--made, for instance, of the squeal of fighting
stallions, and the bray of an amorous he-ass--the bubbling complaint of fed camels that want
to go to sleep, but are afraid of dreaming--the hum of human voices--the clash of cooking pots--the
voice of a man on the roof singing falsetto to the stars (that was surely the Pathan!) --the
tinkling of a three-stringed instrument--and all of that punctuated by the tapping of a saz,
the little tight-skinned Turkish drum.

It is no use for folk whose finger-nails were never dirty, and who never scratched themselves
while they cooked a meal over the primus burner on the floor, to say that all that medley of
sounds and smells is not good.  It is very good indeed, only he who is privileged must understand,
or else the spell is mere confusion.

The cooking box was hardly a success, because bright eyes watching through the open door made
us nervously amateurish.  The Zeitoonli arrived true to his threat on the stroke of the half-hour,
and we could not shut the door in his face because of the fumes of food and kerosene.  (Two
of the eggs, like us, were travelers and had been in more than one bazaar.)

But we did not invite him inside until our meal was finished, and then we graciously permitted
him to go for water wherewith to wash up.  He strode back and forth on the balcony, treading
ruthlessly on prayer-mats (for the Moslem prays in public like the Pharisees of old).

"Myself I am Christian," he said, spitting over the rail, and sitting down again to watch us.
We accepted the remark with reservations.

When we asked him in at last, and we had driven out the flies with flapping towels, be closed
the door and squatted down with his back to it, we two facing him in our canvas-backed easy
chairs.  He refused the "genuine Turkish" coffee that Will stewed over the primus.  Will drank
the beastly stuff, of course, to keep himself in countenance, and I did not care to go back
on a friend before a foreigner, but I envied the man from Zeitoon his liberty of choice.

"Why do they call you the Eye of Zeitoon?" I asked, when time enough had elapsed to preclude
his imagining that we regarded him seriously. One has to be careful about beginnings in the
Near East, even as elsewhere.

"I keep watch!" he answered proudly, but also with a deeply-grounded consciousness of cunning.
There were moments when I felt such strong repugnance for the man that I itched to open the
door and thrust him through--other moments when compassion for him urged me to offer money--food--influence--anything.
The second emotion fought all the while against the first, and I found out afterward it had
been the same with Will.

"Why should Zeitoon need such special watching?" I demanded.  "How do you watch?  Against whom?
Why?"

He laughed with a pair of lawless eyes, and showed his yellow teeth.

"Ha!  Shall I speak of Zeitoon?  This, then:  the Turks never conquered it!  They came once
and built a fort on the opposite mountain-side, with guns to overawe us all.  We took their
fort by storm!  We threw their cannon down a thousand feet into the bed of the torrent, and
there they lie to-day!  We took prisoner as many of their Arab zaptiehs as still were living--aye,
they even brought Arabs against us--poor fools who had not yet heard of Zeitoon's defenders!
Then we came down to the plains for a little vengeance, leaving the Arabs for our wives to
guard.  They are women of spirit, the Zeitoonli wives!

"Word reached Zeitoon presently that we were being hard pressed on the plains.  It was told
to the Zeitoonli wives that they might arrange to have pursuit called off from us by surrendering
those Arab prisoners. They answered that Zeitoon-fashion.  How?  I will tell.  There is a bridge
of wood, flung over across the mountain torrent, five hundred feet above the water, spanning
from crag to crag.  Those Zeitoonli wives of ours bound the Arab prisoners hand and foot. 
They brought them out along the bridge.  They threw them over one at a time, each man looking
on until his turn came.  That was the answer of the brave Zeitoonli wives!"

"And you on the plains?"

"Ah!  It takes better than Osmanli to conquer the men of Zeitoon!" he gave the Turks their
own names for themselves with the air of a brave fighting man conceding his opponent points.
"We heard what our wives had done.  We were encouraged.  We prevailed!  We fell back to-ward
our mountain and prevailed!  There in Zeitoon we have weapons--numbers--advantage of position,
for no roads come near Zeitoon that an araba, or a gun, or anything on wheels can use.  The
only thing we fear is treachery, leading to surprise in overwhelming force. And against these
I keep watch!"

"Why should you tell us all this?" demanded Will.

"How do you know we are not agents of the Turkish government?"

He laughed outright, throwing out both hands toward us.  "Eenglis sportmen!" he said simply.

"What's that got to do with it?" Will retorted.  He has the unaccountable American dislike
of being mistaken for an Englishman, but long ago gave up arguing the point, since foreigners
refuse, as a rule, to see the sacred difference.

"I am, too, sportman.  At Zeitoon there is very good sport.  Bear. Antelope.  Wild boar.  One
sportman to another--do you understand?"

We did, and did not believe.

"How far to Zeitoon?" I demanded.

"I go in five days when I hurry.  You--not hurrying--by horse--seven --eight--nine days, depending
on the roads."

"Are they all Armenians in Zeitoon?"

"Most.  Not all.  There are Arabs--Syrians--Persians--a few Circassians --even Kurds and a
Turk or two.  Our numbers have been reenforced continually by deserters from the Turkish Army.
Ninety-five per cent., however, are Armenians," he added with half-closed eyes, suddenly suggesting
that masked meekness that disguises most outrageous racial pride.

"It is common report," I said, "that the Turks settled all Armenian problems long ago by process
of massacre until you have no spirit for revolt left."

"The report lies, that is all!" he answered.  Then suddenly he beat on his chest with clenched
fist.  "There is spirit here!  There is spirit in Zeitoon!  No Osmanli dare molest my people!
Come to Zeitoon to shoot bear, boar, antelope!  I will show you!  I will prove my words!"

"Were those six jingaan in the common room your men?" I asked him, and he laughed as suddenly
as he had stormed, like a teacher at a child's mistake.

"Jingaan is a bad word," he said. "I might kill a man who named me that--depending on the man.
My brother I would kill for it--a stranger perhaps not.  Those men are Zingarri, who detest
to sleep between brick walls.  They have a tent pitched in the yard."

"Are they your men?"

"Zingarri are no man's men."

The denial carried no conviction.

"Is there nothing but hunting at Zeitoon?" Will demanded.

"Is that not much?  In addition the place itself is wonderful--a mountain in a mist, with houses
clinging to the flanks of it, and scenery to burst the heart!"

"What else?" I asked.  "No ancient buildings?"

He changed his tactics instantly.

"Effendi," he said, leaning forward and pointing a forefinger at me by way of emphasis, "there
are castles on the mountains near Zeitoon that have never been explored since the Turks--may
God destroy them! --overran the land!  Castles hidden among trees where only bears dwell! Castles
built by the Seljuks--Armenians--Romans--Saracens--Crusaders! I know the way to every one of them!"

"What else?" demanded Will, purposely incredulous.

"Beyond Zeitoon to north and west are cave-dwellers.  Mountains so hollowed out that only a
shell remains, a sponge--a honeycomb!  No man knows how far those tunnels run!  The Turks have
attempted now and then to smoke out the inhabitants.  They were laughed at!  One mountain is
connected with another, and the tunnels run for miles and miles!"

"I've seen cave-dwellings in the States," Will answered, unimpressed. "But just where do you
come in?"

"I do not understand."

"What do you propose to get out of it?"

"Nothing!  I am proud of my country.  I am sportman.  I am pleased to show."

We both jeered at him, for that explanation was too outrageously ridiculous.  Armenians love
money, whatever else they do or leave undone, and can wring a handsome profit out of business
whose very existence the easier-going Turk would not suspect.

"See if I can't read your mind," said Will.  "You'll guide us for some distance out of town,
at a place you know, and your jingaan-gipsy brethren will hold us up at some point and rob
us to a fare-you-well. Is that the pretty scheme?"

Some men would have flown into a fury.  Some would have laughed the matter off.  Any and every
crook would have been at pains to hide his real feelings.  Yet this strange individual was
at a loss how to answer, and not averse to our knowing that.

For a moment a sort of low cunning seemed to creep over his mind, but he dismissed it.  Three
times be raised his hands, palms upward, and checked himself in the middle of a word.

"You could pay me for my services," he said at last, not as if that were the real reason, nor
as if he hoped to convince us that it was, but as if he were offering an excuse that we might
care to accept for the sake of making peace with our own compunctions.

"There are four in our party," said Will, apropos apparently of nothing. The effect was unexpected.

"Four?"  His eyes opened wide, and be made the knuckle-bones of both hands crack like caps
going off.  "Four Eenglis sportman?"

"I said four.  If you're willing to tell the naked truth about what's back of your offer, I'll
undertake to talk it over with my other friends.  Then, either we'll all four agree to take
you up, or we'll give you a flat refusal within a day or two.  Now--suit yourself."

"I have told the truth--Zeitoon--caves--boar--antelope--wild boar. I am a very good guide.
You shall pay me handsomely."

"Sure, we'll ante up like foreigners.  But why do you make the proposal? What's behind it?"

"I never saw you until this afternoon.  You are Eenglis sportmen. I can show good sport.  You
shall pay me.  Could it be simpler?"

It seemed to me we had been within an ace of discovery, but the man's mind had closed again
against us in obedience to some racial or religious instinct outside our comprehension.  He
had been on the verge of taking us into confidence.

"Let the sportmen think it over," he said, getting up.  "Jannam! (My soul!)  Effendi, when
I was a younger man none could have made me half such a sportmanlike proposal without an answer
on the instant! A man fit to strike the highway with his foot should be a judge of men!  I
have judged you fit to be invited!  Now you judge me--the Eye of Zeitoon!"

"What is your real name?"

"I have none--or many, which is the same thing!  I did not ask your names;  they are your own
affair!"

He stood with his hand on the door, not irresolute, but taking one last look at us and our
belongings.

"I wish you comfortable sleep, and long lives, effendim!" he said then, and swung himself out,
closing the door behind him with an air of having honored us, not we him particularly.  And
after he had gone we were not at all sure that summary of the situation was not right.

We lay awake on our cots until long after midnight, hazarding guesses about him.  Whatever
else he had done he had thoroughly aroused our curiosity.

"If you want my opinion that's all he was after anyway!" said Will, dropping his last cigarette-end
on the floor and flattening it with his slipper.

"Cut the cackle, and let's sleep!"

We fell asleep at last amid the noise of wild carousing;  for the proprietor of the Yeni Khan,
although a Turk, and therefore himself presumably abstemious, was not above dispensing at a
price mastika that the Greeks get drunk on, and the viler raki, with which Georgians, Circassians,
Albanians, and even the less religious Turks woo imagination or forgetfulness.

There was knife-fighting as well as carousal before dawn, to judge by the cat-and-dog-fight
swearing in and out among the camel pickets and the wheels of arabas.  But that was the business
of the men who fought, and no one interfered.

Chapter Two "How did sunshine get into the garden?  By whose leave came the wind?"

A TIME AND TIMES AND HALF A TIME

When Cydnus bore the Taurus snows To sweeten Cleopatra's keels, And rippled in the breeze that
sings >From Kara Dagh, where leafy wings Of flowers fall and gloaming steals The colors of
the blowing rose, Old were the wharves and woods and ways-- Older the tale of steel and fire,
Involved intrigue, envenomed plan, Man marketing his brother man By dread duress to glut desire.
No peace was in those olden days. Hope like the gorgeous rose sun-warmed Blossomed and blew
away and died, Till gentleness had ceased to be And Tarsus knew no chivalry Could live an hour
by Cydnus' side Where all the heirs of evil swarmed. And yet--with every swelling spring Each
pollen-scented zephyr's breath Repeats the patient news to ears Made dull by dreams of loveless
years, "It is of life, and not of death That ye shall hear the Cydnus sing!"

We awoke amid sounds unexplainable.  Most of the Moslems had finished their noisy ritual ablutions,
and at dawn we had been dimly conscious of the strings of camels, mules and donkeys jingling
out under the arch beneath us.  Yet there was a great din from the courtyard of wild hoofs
thumping on the dung, and of scurrying feet as if a mile-long caravan were practising formations.

So we went out to yawn, and remained, oblivious of everything but the cause of all the noise,
we leaning with elbows on the wooden rail, and she laughing up at us at intervals.

The six Zingarri, or gipsies, had pitched their tent in the very middle of the yard, ambitious
above all other considerations to keep away from walls.  It was a big, low, black affair supported
on short poles, and subdivided by them into several compartments.  One could see unshapely
bulges where women did the housekeeping within.

But the woman who held us spell-bound cared nothing for Turkish custom --a girl not more than
seventeen years old at the boldest guess. She was breaking a gray stallion in the yard, sitting
the frenzied beast without a saddle and doing whatever she liked with him, except that his
heels made free of the air, and he went from point to point whichever end up best pleased his
fancy.

Travelers make an early start in Asia Minor, but the yard was by no means empty yet;  some
folk were still waiting on the doubtful weather.  Her own people kept to the tent.  Whoever
else had business in the yard made common cause and cursed the girl for making the disturbance,
frightening camels, horses, asses and themselves.  And she ignored them all, unless it was
on purpose that she brought her stallion's heels too close for safety to the most abusive.

It was only for us two that she had any kind of friendly interest; she kept looking up at us
and laughing as she caught our eyes, bringing her mount uprearing just beneath us several times.
She was pretty as the peep o' morning, with long, black wavy hair all loose about her shoulders,
and as light on the horse as the foam he tossed about, although master of him without a second's
doubt of it.

When she had had enough of riding--long before we were tired of the spectacle--she shouted
with a voice like a mellow bell.  One of the gipsies ran out and led away the sweating stallion,
and she disappeared into the tent throwing us a laugh over her shoulder.

"D'you suppose those gipsies are really of that Armenian's party?" Will wondered aloud.  "Now,
if she were going to Zeitoon--!"

Feeling as he did, I mocked at him to hide my feelings, and we hung about for another hour
in hope of seeing her again, but she kept close. I don't doubt she watched us through a hole
in the tent.  We would have sat there alert in our chairs until evening only Fred sent a note
down to say he was well enough to leave the hospital.

We found him with his beard trimmed neatly and his fevered eyes all bright again, sitting talking
to the nurse on the veranda about a niece of hers--Gloria Vanderman.

"Chicken in this desert!" Will wondered irreverently, and Fred, who likes his English to have
dictionary meanings, rose from his chair in wrath.  The nurse made that the cue for getting
rid of us.

"Take Mr. Oakes away!" she urged, laughing.  "He threatened to kill a man this morning.  There's
too much murder in Tarsus now.  If he should add to it--"

"You know it wasn't on my account," Fred objected.  "It was what he wrote--and said of you.
Why, he has had you prayed for publicly by name, and you washing the brute's feet!  Let me
back in there for just five minutes, and I'll show what a hospital case should really look like!"

"Take him away!" she laughed.  "Isn't it bad enough to be prayed for?  Must I get into the
papers, too, as heroine of a scandal?"

The head missionary was not there to say good-by to, life in his case being too serious an
affair to waste minutes of a precious morning on farewells, so we packed Fred into the waiting
carriage and drove all the way to Mersina, where we interrupted Monty's mid-afternoon game
of chess.

Fred Oakes and Monty were the closest friends I ever met--one problem for an enemy--one stout,
two-headed, most dependable ally for the lucky man or woman they called friend.

"Oh, hullo!" said Monty over his shoulder, as our names were called out by the stately consular
kavass.

"Hullo!" said Fred, and shook hands with the consul.

"Thought you were due to be sick for another week?" said Monty, closing up the board.

"I was.  I would have been.  Bed would have done me good, and the nurse is a darling, old enough
to be Will's mother.  But they put a biped by the name of Peter Measel in the bed next mine.
He's a missionary on his own account, and keeps a diary.  Seems be contributes to the funds
of a Welsh mission in France, and they do what he says. He has all the people he disapproves
of prayed for publicly by name in the mission hall in Marseilles, with extracts out of his
diary by way of explanation, so that the people who pray may know what they've got on their
hands.  The special information I gave him about you, Monty, will make Marseilles burn!  He's
got you down as a drunken pirate, my boy, with no less than eleven wives.  But be asked me
one night whether I thought what he'd written about the nurse was strong enough, and he read
it aloud to me.  You'd never believe what the reptile had dared suggest in his devil's log-book!
I'm expelled for threatening to kill him!"

"The nurse was right," said the consul gloomily.  "There'll be murder enough hereabouts--and soon!"

He was a fairly young man yet in spite of the nearly white hair over the temples.  He measured
his words in the manner of a man whose speech is taken at face value.

"The missionaries know.  The governments won't listen.  I've been appealed to.  So has the
United States consul, and neither of us is going to be able to do much.  Remember, I represent
a government at peace with Turkey, and so does he.  The Turk has a side to his character that
governments ignore.  Have you watched them at prayer?"

We told him how close we had been on the previous night, and he laughed.

"Did you suppose I couldn't smell camel and khan the moment you came in?"

"That was why Sister Vanderman hurried you off so promptly!" Fred announced with an air of
outraged truthfulness.  "Faugh!  Slangy talk and stink of stables!"

"I was talking of Turks," said the consul.  "When they pray, you may have noticed that they
glance to right and left.  When they think there is nobody looking they do more, they stare
deliberately to the right and left.  That is the act of recognition of the angel and the devil
who are supposed to attend every Moslem, the angel to record his good deeds and the devil his
bad ones.  To my mind there lies the secret of the Turk's character.  Most of the time he's
a man of his word--honest--courteous--considerate--good-humored --even chivalrous--living up
to the angel.  But once in so often he remembers the other shoulder, and then there isn't any
limit to the deviltry he'll do.  Absolutely not a limit!"

"I suppose we or the Americans could land marines at a pinch, and protect whoever asked for
protection?" suggested Monty.

"No," said the consul deliberately.  "Germany would object.  Germany is the only power that
would.  Germany would accuse us of scheming to destroy the value of their blessed Baghdad railway."

A privy councilor of England, which Monty was, is not necessarily in touch with politics of
any sort.  Neither were we;  but it happened that more than once in our wanderings about the
world things had been forced on our attention.

"They would rather see Europe burn from end to end!" Monty agreed.

"And I think there's more than that in it," said the consul.  "Armenians are not their favorites.
The Germans want the trade of the Levant. The Armenians are business men.  They're shrewder
than Jews and more dependable than Greeks.  It would suit Germany very nicely, I imagine, to
have no Armenians to compete with."

"But if Germany once got control of the Near East," I objected, "she could impose her own restrictions."

The consul frowned.  "Armenians who thrive in spite of Turks--"

"Would skin a German for hide and tallow," nodded Will.

"Exactly.  Germany would object vigorously if we or the States should land marines to prevent
the Turks from applying the favorite remedy, vukuart -that means events, you know--their euphemism
for massacre at rather frequent intervals.  Germany would rather see the Turks finish the dirty
work thoroughly than have it to do herself later on."

"You mean," said I, "that the German government is inciting to massacre?"

"Hardly.  There are German missionaries in the country, doing good work in a funny, fussy,
rigorous fashion of their own.  They'd raise a dickens of a hocus-pocus back in Germany if
they once suspected their government of playing that game.  No.  But Germany intends to stand
off the other powers, while Turks tackle the Armenians; and the Turks know that."

"But what's the immediate excuse for massacre?" demanded Fred.

The consul laughed.

"All that's needed is a spark.  The Armenians haven't been tactful. They don't hesitate to
irritate the Turks--not that you can blame them, but it isn't wise.  Most of the money-lenders
are Armenians; Turks won't engage in that business themselves on religious grounds, but they're
ready borrowers, and the Armenian money-lenders, who are in a very small minority, of course,
are grasping and give a bad name to the whole nation.  Then, Armenians have been boasting openly
that one of these days the old Armenian kingdom will be reestablished.  The Turks are conquerors,
you know, and don't like that kind of talk.  If the Armenians could only keep from quarreling
among themselves they could win their independence in half a jiffy, but the Turks are deadly
wise at the old trick of divide et impera; they keep the Armenians quarreling, and nobody dares
stand in with them because sooner--or later--sooner, probably--they'll split among themselves,
and leave their friends high and dry.  You can't blame 'em. The Turks know enough to play on
their religious prejudices and set one sect against another.  When the massacres begin scarcely
an Armenian will know who is friend and who enemy."

"D'you mean to say," demanded Fred, "that they're going to be shot like bottles off a wall
without rhyme or reason?"

"That's how it was before," said the consul.  "There's nothing to stop it.  The world is mistaken
about Armenians.  They're a hot-blooded lot on the whole, with a deep sense of national pride,
and a hatred of Turkish oppression that rankles.  One of these mornings a Turk will choose
his Armenian and carefully insult the man's wife or daughter. Perhaps he will crown it by throwing
dirt in the fellow's face. The Armenian will kill him or try to, and there you are.  Moslem
blood shed by a dog of a giaour--the old excuse!"

"Don't the Armenians know what's in store for them?" I asked.

"Some of them know.  Some guess.  Some are like the villagers on Mount Vesuvius--much as we
English were in '57 in India, I imagine --asleep--playing games--getting rich on top of a volcano.
The difference is that the Armenians will have no chance."

"Did you ever hear tell of the Eye of Zeitoon?" asked Will, apropos apparently of nothing.

"No," said the consul, staring at him.

Will told him of the individual we had talked with in the khan the night before, describing
him rather carefully, not forgetting the gipsies in the black tent, and particularly not the
daughter of the dawn who schooled a gray stallion in the courtyard.

The consul shook his head.

"Never saw or heard of any of them."

We were sitting in full view of the roadstead where Anthony and Cleopatra's ships had moored
a hundred times.  The consul's garden sloped in front of us, and most of the flowers that Europe
reckons rare were getting ready to bloom.

"Would you know the man if you saw him again, Will?" I asked.

"Sure I would!"

"Then look!"

I pointed, and seeing himself observed a man stepped out of the shadow of some oleanders. 
There was something suggestive in his choice of lurking place, for every part of the oleander
plant is dangerously poisonous;  it was as if he had hidden himself among the hairs of death.

"Him, sure enough!" said Will.

The man came forward uninvited.

"How did you get into the grounds?" the consul demanded, and the man laughed, laying an unafraid
hand on the veranda rail.

"My teskere is a better than the Turks give!" he answered in English. (A teskere is the official
permit to travel into the interior.)

"What do you mean?"

"How did sunshine come into the garden?  By whose leave came the wind?"

He stood on no formality.  Before one of us could interfere (for he might have been plying
the assassin's trade) he had vaulted the veranda rail and stood in front of us.  As he jumped
I heard the rattle of loose cartridges, and the thump of a hidden pistol against the woodwork.
I could see the hilt of a dagger, too, just emerging from concealment through the opening in
his smock.  But he stood in front of us almost meekly, waiting to be spoken to.

"You are without shame!" said the consul.

"Truly!  Of what should I be ashamed!"

"What brought you here?"

"Two feet and a great good will!  You know me."

The consul shook his head.

"Who sold the horse to the German from Bitlis?"

"Are you that man?"

"Who clipped the wings of a kite, and sold it for ten pounds to a fool for an eagle from Ararat?"

The consul laughed.

"Are you the rascal who did that?"

"Who threw Olim Pasha into the river, and pushed him in and in again for more than an hour
with a fishing pole--and then threw in the gendarmes who ran to arrest him--and only ran when
the Eenglis consul came?"

"I remember," said the consul.

"Yet you don't look quite like that man."

"I told you you knew me."

"Neither does to-day's wind blow like yesterday's!"

"What is your name?"

"Then it was Ali."

"What is it now?"

"The name God gave me?"

"Yes."

"God knows!"

"What do you want here?"

He spread out his arms toward us four, and grinned.

"Look--see!  Four Eenglis sportman!  Could a man want more?"

"Your face is hauntingly familiar," said the consul, searching old memories.

"No doubt.  Who carried your honor's letter to Adrianople in time of war, and received a bullet,
but brought the answer back?"

"What--are you that man--Kagig?"

Instead of replying the man opened his smock, and pulled aside an undershirt until his hairy
left breast lay bare down to where the nipple should have been.  Why a bullet that drilled
that nipple so neatly had not pierced the heart was simply mystery.

"Kagig, by jove!  Kagig with a beard!  Nobody would know you but for that scar."

"But now you know me surely?  Tell these Eenglis sportman, then, that I am good man--good guide!
Tell them they come with me to Zeitoon!"

The consul's face darkened swiftly, clouded by some notion that he seemed to try to dismiss,
but that refused to leave him.

"How much would you ask for your services?" he demanded.

"Whatever the effendim please."

"Have you a horse?"

He nodded.

"You and your horse, then, two piasters a day, and you feed yourself and the beast."

The man agreed, very bright-eyed.  Often it takes a day or two to come to terms with natives
of that country, yet the terms the consul offered him were those for a man of very ordinary
attainments.

"Come back in an hour," said the consul.

Without a word of answer Kagig vaulted back across the rail and disappeared around the corner
of the house, walking without hurry but not looking back.

"Kagig, by jove!  It would take too long now to tell that story of the letter to Adrianople.
I've no proof, but a private notion that Kagig is descended from the old Armenian kings.  In
a certain sort of tight place there's not a better man in Asia.  Now, Lord Montdidier, if you're
in earnest about searching for that castle of your Crusader ancestors, you're in luck!"

"You know it's what I came here for," said Monty.  "These friends of mine are curious, and
I'm determined.  Now that Fred's well--"

"I'm puzzled," said the consul, leaning back and looking at us all with half-closed eyes. 
"Why should Kagig choose just this time to guide a hunting party?  If any man knows trouble's
brewing, I suspect be surely does.  Anything can happen in the interior.  I recall, for instance,
a couple of Danes, who went with a guide not long ago, and simply disappeared.  There are outlaws
everywhere, and it's more than a theory that the public officials are in league with them."

"What a joke if we find the old family castle is a nest of robbers," smiled Monty.

"Still!" corrected Fred.

I was watching the consul's eyes.  He was troubled, but the prospect of massacre did not account
for all of his expression.  There was debate, inspiration against conviction, being fought
out under cover of forced calm.  Inspiration won the day.

"I was wondering," he said, and lit a fresh cigar while we waited for him to go on.

"I vouch for my friends," said Monty.

"It wasn't that.  I've no right to make the proposal--no official right whatever--I'm speaking
strictly unofficially--in fact, it's not a proposal at all--merely a notion."

He paused to give himself a last chance, but indiscretion was too strong.

"I was wondering how far you four men would go to save twenty or thirty thousand lives."

"You've no call to wonder about that," said Will.

"Suppose you tell us what you've got in mind," suggested Monty, putting his long legs on a
chair and producing a cigarette.

The consul knocked out his pipe and sat forward, beginning to talk a little faster, as a man
who throws discretion to the winds.

"I've no legal right to interfere.  None at all.  In case of a massacre of Armenians--men,
women, little children--I could do nothing.  Make a fuss, of course.  Throw open the consulate
to refugees.  Threaten a lot of things that I know perfectly well my government won't do. The
Turks will be polite to my face and laugh behind my back, knowing I'm helpless.  But if you
four men--"

"Yes--go on--what?"

"Spill it!" urged Will.

"--should be up-country, and I knew it for a fact, but did not know your precise whereabouts,
I'd have a grown excuse for raising most particular old Harry!  You get my meaning?"

"Sure!" said Will. "Monty's an earl.  Fred's related to half the peerages in Burke.  Me and
him"--I was balancing my chair on one leg and he pushed me over backward by way of identification--"just
pose as distinguished members of society for the occasion.  I get you."

"It might even be possible, Mr. Yerkes, to get the United States Congress to take action on
your account."

"Don't you believe it!" laughed Will.  "The members for the Parish Pump, and the senators from
Ireland would howl about the Monroe Doctrine and Washington's advice at the merest hint of
a Yankee in trouble in foreign parts."

"What about the United States papers?"

"They'd think it was an English scheme to entangle the United States, and they'd be afraid
to support action for fear of the Irish.  No, England's your only chance!"

"Well," said the consul, "I've told you the whole idea.  If I should happen to know of four
important individuals somewhere up-country, and massacres should break out after you had started,
I could supply our ambassador with something good to work on.  The Turkish government might
have to stop the massacre in the district in which you should happen to be.  That would save
lives."

"But could they stop it, once started?" I asked.

"They could try.  That 'ud be more than they ever did yet."

"You mean," said Monty, "that you'd like us to engage Kagig and make the trip, and to remain
out in case of--ah--vukuart until we're rescued?"

"Can't say I like it, but that's what I mean.  And as for rescue, the longer the process takes
the better, I imagine!"

"Hide, and have them hunt for us, eh?"

"Would it help," I suggested, "if we were to be taken prisoner by outlaws and held for ransom?"

"It might," said the consul darkly.  "I'd take to the hills myself and send back a wail for
help, only my plain duty is here at the mission.  What I have suggested to you is mad quixotism
at the best, and at the worst--well, do you recall what happened to poor Vyner, who was held
for ransom by Greek brigands?  They sent a rescue party instead of money, and--"

"Charles Vyner was a friend of mine," said Monty quietly.

Fred began to look extremely cheerful and Will nudged me and nodded.

"Remember," said the consul, "in the present state of European politics there's no knowing
what can or can't be done, but if you four men are absent in the hills I believe I can give
the Turkish government so much to think about that there'll be no massacres in that one district."

"Whistle up Kagig!" Monty answered, and that was the end of the argument as far as yea or nay
had anything to do with it.  Prospect of danger was the last thing likely to divide the party.

"How about permits to travel?" asked Will.  "The United States consul told me none is to be
had at present."

The consul rubbed his thumb and forefinger together.

"It may cost a little more, that's all," he said.  "You might go without, but you'd better
submit to extortion."

He called the kavass, the uniformed consular attendant, and sent him in search of Kagig.  Within
two minutes the Eye of Zeitoon was grinning at us through a small square window in the wall
at one end of the veranda.  Then he came round and once more vaulted the veranda rail, for
he seemed to hold ordinary means of entry in contempt. His eye looked very possessive for that
of one seeking employment as a guide, but he stood at respectful attention until spoken to.

"These gentlemen have decided to employ you," the consul announced.

"Mashallah!" (God be praised!)  For a Christian he used unusual expletives.

"They want to find a castle in the mountains, to hunt bear and boar, and to see Zeitoon."

"I shall lead them to ten castles never seen before by Eenglismen! They shall kill all the
bears and pigs!  Never was such sport as they shall see!"

He exploded the word pigs as if he had the Osmanli prejudice against that animal.  Yet he wore
a pig-skin cartridge belt about his middle.

"They will need enormous lots of ammunition!" he announced.

"What else would the roadside robbers like them to bring?"

"No Turkish servants!  They throw Turks over a bridge-side in Zeitoon! I myself will provide
servants, who shall bring them back safely!"

It seemed to me that he breathed inward as he said that.  A Turk would have added "Inshallah!"--if
God wills!

"Make ready for a journey of two months," he said.

"When and where shall the start be?"

It would obviously be unwise to start from the consulate.

"From the Yeni Khan in Tarsus," said Will.

"That is very good--that is excellent!  I will send Zeitoonli servants to the Yeni Khan at
once.  Pay them the right price.  Have you horses? Camels are of no use, nor yet are wheels--you
shall know why later! Mules are best."

"I know where you can hire mules," said the consul, "with a Turkish muleteer to each pair."

"Oh, well!" laughed Kagig, leaning back against the rail and moving his hands palms upward
as if he weighed one thought against another. "What is the difference?  If a few Turks move
or less come to an end over Zeitoon bridge--"

It was only for moments at a time that he seemed able to force himself to speak as our inferior.
A Turk of the guide class would likely have knelt and placed a foot of each of us on his neck
in turn as soon as he knew we had engaged him.  This Armenian seemed made of other stuff.

"Then be on hand to-morrow morning," ordered Monty.

But the Eye of Zeitoon had another surprise for us.

"I shall meet you on the road," he announced with an air of a social equal.  "Servants shall
attend you at the Yeni Khan.  They will say nothing at all, and work splendidly!  Start when
you like;  you will find me waiting for you at a good place on the road.  Bring not plenty,
but too much ammunition!  Good day, then, gentlemen!"

He nodded to us--bowed to the consul--vaulted the rail.  A second later he grinned at us again
through the tiny window.  "I am the Eye of Zeitoon!" he boasted, and was gone.  A servant whom
the consul sent to follow him came back after ten or fifteen minutes saying he had lost him
in a maze of narrow streets.

His latter, offhanded manner scarcely auguring well, we debated whether or not to search for
some one more likely amenable to discipline to take his place.  But the consul spent an hour
telling us about the letter that went to Adrianople, and the bringing back of the answer that
hastened peace.

"He was shot badly.  He nearly died on the way back.  I've no idea how he recovered.  He wouldn't
accept a piaster more than the price agreed on."

"Let's take a chance!" said Will, and we were all agreed before he urged it.

"There's one other thing," said the consul.  "I've been told a Miss Gloria Vanderrnan is on
her way to the mission at Marash--"

"Gee whiz!" said Will.

The consul nodded.  "She's pretty, if that's what you mean.  It was very unwise to let her
go, escorted only by Armenians.  Of course, she may get through without as much as suspecting
trouble's brewing, but--well--I wish you'd look out for her."

"Chicken, eh?"

Will stuck both hands deep in his trousers pockets and tilted his chair backward to the point
of perfect poise.

"Cuckoo, you ass!" laughed Fred, kicking the chair over backward, and then piling all the veranda
furniture on top, to the scandalized amazement of the stately kavass, who came at that moment
shepherding a small boy with a large tray and perfectly enormous drinks.

Chapter Three "Sahib, there is always--work for real soldiers!"

WHERE TWO OR THREE

Oh, all the world is sick with hate, And who shall heal it, friend o' mine? And who is friend?
And who shall stand Since hireling tongue and alien hand Kill nobleness in all this land? Judas
and Pharisee combine To plunder and proclaim it Fate.

Days when the upright dared be few Are they departed, friend o' mine? Are bribery and rich
largesse Fair props for fat forgetfulness, Or anodynous of distress? Oh, would the world were
drunk with wine And not this last besotting brew!

Oh, for the wonderful again - The greatly daring, friend o' mine! The simply gallant blade
unbought, The soul compassionate, unsought, With no price but the priceless thought Nor purpose
than the brave design Of giving that the world may gain!

So we took two rooms at the Yeni Khan instead of one, not being minded to sleep as closely
as the gentry of Asia Minor like to.  Will hurried us down there for a look at the gipsy girl.
But the tent was gone and the gipsies with it, and when we asked questions about them people spat.

Your good Moslem--and a Moslem is good in those parts who makes a mountain of observances,
regarding mole-hills of mere morals not at all--affects to despise all giaours; but a giaour,
like a gipsy, who has no obvious religion of any kind, he ranks below the pig in order of reverence.
It did not redound to our credit that we showed interest in the movements of such people.

Monty brought an enormous can of bug-powder with him, and restored our popularity by lending
generously after he had treated our quarters sufficiently for three days' stay.  Fred did nothing
to our quarters --stirred no finger, claiming convalescence with his tongue in his cheek, and
strolling about until he fell utterly in love with the khan and its crowd, and the khan with
him. That very first night he brought out his concertina on the balcony, and yowled songs to
its clamor;  and whether or not the various crowd agreed on naming the noise music, all were
delighted with the friendliness.

Fred talks more languages fluently than he can count on the fingers of both hands.  He began
to tell tales in a sing-song eastern snarl --a tale in Persian, then in Turkish, and the night
grew breathless, full of listening, until pent-up interest at intervals burst bonds and there
were "Ahs" and "Ohs" all amid the dark, like little breaths of night wind among trees.

He found small time for sleep, and when dawn came, and four Zeitoonli servants according to
Kagig's promise, they still swarmed around him begging for more.  He went off to eat breakfast
with a khan from Bokhara, sitting on a bale of nearly priceless carpets to drink overland tea
made in a thing like a samovar.

All the rest of that day, and the next, sleeping only at intervals, while Monty and Will and
I helped the Zeitoonli servants get our loads in shape, Fred sharpened his wonder-gift of tongues
on the fascinated men of many nations, giving them London ditties and tales from the Thousand
Nights and a Night in exchange for their news of caravan routes.  He left them well pleased
with their bargain.

Monty went off alone the second day to see about mules.  The Turk with a trade to make believes
that of several partners one is always "easier" than the rest;  consequently, one man can bring
him to see swifter reason than a number can.  He came back that evening with twelve good mules
and four attendants.

"One apiece to ride, and two apiece to carry everything.  Not another mule to be had.  Unpack
the loads again and make them smaller!"

Fred came and sat with us that night before the charcoal brazier in his and Monty's room.

"They all talk of robbers on the road," he said.  "Northward, through the Circassian Gates,
or eastward it's all the same.  There's a man in a room across the way who was stripped stark
naked and beaten because they thought he might have money in his clothes.  When he reached
this place without a stitch on him he still had all his money in his clenched fists!  Quite
a sportsman--what?  Imagine his juggling with it while they whipped him with knotted cords!"

"What have you heard about Kagig?"

"Nothing.  But a lot about vukuart.*  It's vague, but there's something in the air.  You'll
notice the Turkish muleteers are having nothing whatever to say to our Zeitoonli, although
they've accepted the same service.  Moslems are keeping together, and Armenians are getting
the silence cure.  Armenians are even shy of speaking to one another. I've tried listening,
and I've tried asking questions, although that was risky.  I can't get a word of explanation.
I've noticed, though, that the ugly mood is broadening.  They've been polite to me, but I've
heard the word shapkali applied more than once to you fellows. Means hatted man, you know.
Not a serious insult, but implies contempt."

-------------- * Turkish word:  happenings, a euphemism for massacre. --------------

Nothing but comfort and respectability ever seemed able to make Fred gloomy.  He discussed
our present prospects with the air of an epicure ordering dinner.  And Monty listened with
his dark, delightful smile --the kindliest smile in all the world.  I have seen unthoughtful
men mistake it for a sign of weakness.

I have never known him to argue.  Nor did he then, but strode straight down into the khan yard,
we sitting on the balcony to watch.  He visited our string of mules first for an excuse, and
invited a Kurdish chieftain (all Kurds are chieftains away from home) to inspect a swollen
fetlock.  With that subtle flattery he unlocked the man's reserve, passed on from chance remark
to frank, good-humored questions, and within an hour had talked with twenty men.  At last he
called to one of the Zeitoonli to come and scrape the yard dung from his boots, climbed the
stairs leisurely, and sat beside us.

"You're quite right, Fred," he said quietly.

Then there came suddenly from out the darkness a yell for help in English that brought three
of us to our feet.  Fred brushed his fierce mustaches upward with an air of satisfaction, and
sat still.

"There's somebody down there quite wrong, and in line at last to find out why!" he said.  "I've
been waiting for this.  Sit down."

We obeyed him, though the yells continued.  There came blows suggestive of a woman on the housetops
beating carpets.

"D'you recollect the man I mentioned at the consulate--the biped Peter Measel, missionary on
his own account, who keeps a diary and libels ladies in it?  Well, he's foul of a thalukdar*
from Rajputana, and of a Prussian contractor, recruiting men for work on the Baghdad railway.
I wasn't allowed to murder him.  I see why now--finger of justice--I'd have been too quick.
Sit down, you idiots!  You've no idea what he wrote about Miss Vanderman.  Let him scream,
I like it!"

--------------- * Punjabi Word--landholder. ---------------

"Come along," said Monty.  "If he were a bad-house keeper he has had enough!"

But Will had gone before us, headlong down the stairs with the speed off the mark that they
taught him on the playing field at Bowdoin. When we caught up he was standing astride a prostrate
being who sobbed like a cow with its throat cut, and a Rajput and a German, either of them
six feet tall, were considering whether or not to resent the violence of his interference.
The German was disposed to yield to numbers.  The Rajput not so.

"Why are you beating him?" asked Monty.

"Gott in Hinimel, who would not!  He wrote of me in his diary --der Liminel!--that I shanghai
laborers."

"Do you, or don't you?" asked Monty sweetly.

"Kreutz-blitzen!  What is that to do with you--or with him?  What right had he to write that
people in France should pray for me in church?"

The Rajput all this while was standing simmering, as ready as a boar at bay to fight the lot
of us, yet I thought with an air about him, too, of half-conscious surprise.  Several times
he took a half-pace forward to assert his right of chastisement, looked hard at Monty, and
checked mid-stride.

"You've done enough," said Monty.

"Who are you that says so?" the German retorted.

"He--who--will--attend--to--it--that--you--do--no--more!"  Monty's smooth voce had become without
inflection.

"Bah!  That is easy, isn't it?  You are four to one!"

"Five to one!"

The Rajput's gruff throat thrilled with a new emotion.  He sprang suddenly past me, and thrust
himself between Monty and the German, who took advantage of the opportunity to walk away.

"Lord Montdidier, colonel sahib bahadur, burra salaam!"

He made no obeisance, but stood facing Monty eye to eye.  The words, as be roiled them out,
were like an order given to a thousand men. One almost heard the swish of sabers as the squadrons
came to the general salute.

"I knew you, Rustum Khan, the minute I set eyes on you.  Why were you beating this man?"

"Sahib bahadur, because he wrote in his book that people in France should pray for me in church,
naming my honorable name, because, says he--but I will not repeat what he says.  It is not seemly."

"How do you know what is in his diary?" Monty asked.

"That German read it out to me.  We were sitting, he and I, discussing how the Turks intend
to butcher the Armenians, as all the world knows is written.  They say it shall happen soon.
Said he to me--the German said to me--'I know another,' said he, 'who if I had my way should
suffer first in that event.'  Saying which he showed the written book that he had found, and
read me parts of it.  The German was for denouncing the fellow as a friend of Armenians, but
I was for beating him at once, and I had my way."

"Where is the book?" demanded Monty.

"The German has it."

"The German has no right to it."

"I will bring it."

Rustum Khan strode off into the night, and Monty bent over the sobbing form of the self-appointed
missionary.  We were all alone in the midst of the courtyard, not even watched from behind
the wheels of arabas, for a fight or a thrashing in the khans of Asia Minor is strictly the
affair of him who gets the worst of it.

"Will you burn that book of yours, Measel, if we protect you from further assault?"

The man sobbed that he would do anything, but Monty held him to the point, and at last procured
a specific affirmative.  Then Rustum Khan came back with the offending tome.  It was bulky
enough to contain an account of the sins of Asia Minor.

Fred and I picked the poor fellow up and led him to where the cooking places stood in one long
row.  Will carried the book, and Rustum Khan stole wood from other folks' piles, and fanned
a fire.  We watched the unhappy Peter Measel put the book on the flames with his own hands.

"You're old enough to have known better than keep such a diary!" said Monty, stirring the charred
pages.

"I am at any rate a martyr!" Measel answered.

The man could walk by that time--he was presumably abstemious and recovered from shock quickly.
Monty sent me to see him to his room, which turned out to be next the German's, and until Will
came over from our quarters with first-aid stuff from our chest I spent the minutes telling
the German what should happen to him in case he should so far forget discretion as to resume
the offensive.  He said nothing in reply, but sat in his doorway looking up at me with an expression
intended to make me feel nervous of reprisals without committing him to deeds.

Later, when we had done our best for "the martyred biped Measel," as Fred described him, Will
and I found Rustum Khan with Fred and Monty seated around the charcoal brazier in Monty's room,
deep in the valley of reminiscences.  Our entry rather broke the spell, but Rustum Khan was
not to be denied.

"You used to tell in those days, Colonel sahib bahadur," he said, addressing Monty with that
full-measured compliment that the chivalrous, old East still cherishes, "of a castle of your
ancestors in these parts.  Do you remember, when I showed you the ruins of my family place
in Rajputana, how you stood beside me on the heights, sahib, and vowed some day to hunt for
that Crusaders' nest, as you called it?"

"That is the immediate purpose of this trip of ours," said Monty.

"Ah!" said the Rajput, and was silent for about a minute.  Fred Oakes began to hum through
his nose.  He has a ridiculous belief that doing that throws keen inquirers off a scent.

"Colonel sahib, since I was a little butcha not as high as your knee I have spoken English
and sat at the feet of British officers.  Little enough I know, but by the beard of God's prophet
I know this:  when a British colonel sahib speaks of 'immediate purposes,' there are hidden
purposes of greater importance!"

"That well may be," said Monty gravely.  "I remember you always were a student of significant
details, Rustum Khan."

"There was a time when I was in your honor's confidence."

Monty smiled.

"That was years ago.  What are you doing here, Rustum Khan?"

"A fair enough question!  I hang my head.  As you know, sahib, I am a rangar.  My people were
all Sikhs for several generations back. We converts to Islam are usually more thorough-going
than born Moslems are.  I started to make the pilgrimage to Mecca, riding overland alone by
way of Persia.  As I came, missing few opportunities to talk with men, who should have been
the lights of my religion, I have felt enthusiasm waning.  These weeks past I have contemplated
return without visiting Mecca at all.  I have wandered to and fro, hoping for the fervor back
again, yet finding none.  And now, sahib, I find you--I, Rustum Khan, at a loose end for lack
of inspiration. I have prayed.  Colonel sahib bahadur, I believe thou art the gift of God!"'

Monty sought our eyes in turn in the lantern-lit darkness.  We made no sign.  None of us but
he knew the Rajput, so it was plainly his affair.

"Suit yourself," said Will, and the rest of us nodded.

"We are traveling into the interior," said Monty, "in the rather doubtful hope that our absence
from a coast city may in some way help Armenians, Rustum Khan."

The Rajput jumped to his feet that instant, and came to the salute.

"I might have known as much.  Colonel Lord Montdidier sahib, I offer fealty!  My blood be thine
to spill in thy cause!  Thy life on my head--thine honor on my life--thy way my way, and God
be my witness!"

"Don't be rash, Rustum Khan.  Our likeliest fate is to be taken prisoner by men of your religion,
who will call you a renegade if you defend Armenians.  And what are Armenians to you?"

"Ah, sahib!  You drive a sharp spur into an open sore!  I have seen too much of ill-faith--cruelty--robbery--torture--rapine--butchery,
all in the name of God!  It is this last threat to the Armenians that is the final straw! 
I took the pilgrimage in search of grace. The nearer I came to the place they tell me is on
earth the home of grace, the more unfaith I see!  Three nights ago in another place I was led
aside and offered the third of the wealth of a fat Armenian if I would lend my sword to slit
helpless throats--in the name of God, the compassionate, be merciful!  My temper was about
spoilt forever when that young idiot over the way described me in his book as--never mind how
he described me--he paid the price!  Sahib bahadur, I take my stand with the defenseless, where
I know thou and thy friends will surely be!  I am thy man!"

"It is not included in our plans to fight," said Monty.

"Sahib, there is always work for real soldiers!"

"What do you fellows say?  Shall we let him come with us?"

"I travel at my own charges, sahib.  I am well mounted and well armed."

"Sure, let him come with us!" said Will.  "I like the man."

"He has my leave to come along to England afterward," said Fred, "if he'll guarantee to address
me as the 'gift of God' in public!"

I left them talking and returned to see whether the "martyred biped Measel" needed further
help.  He was asleep, and as I listened to his breathing I heard voices in the next room. 
The German was talking in English, that being often the only tongue that ten men have in common.
Through the partly opened door I could see that his room was crammed with men.

"They are spies, every one of them!" I heard him say.  "The man I thrashed is of their party.
You yourselves saw how they came to his rescue, and seduced the Indian by means of threats.
This is the way of the English.  ("Curse them!" said a voice.)  They write notes in a book,
and when that offense is detected they burn the book in a corner, as ye saw them do.  I saw
the book before they burned it.  I thrashed the spy who wrote in the book because he had written
in it reports on what it is proposed to do to infidels at the time ye know about.  I tell you
those men are all spies--one is as bad as the other.  They work on behalf of Armenians, to
bring about interference from abroad."

That he had already produced an atmosphere of danger to us I had immediate proof, for as I
crossed the yard again I dodged behind an araba in the nick of time to avoid a blow aimed at
me with a sword by a man I could not see.

"All your charming is undone!" I told Fred, bursting in on our party by the charcoal brazier.
Almost breathless I reeled off what I had overheard.  "They'll be here to murder us by dawn!"
I said.

"Will they?" said Monty.

We were up and away two hours before dawn, to the huge delight of our Turkish muleteers, who
consider a dawn start late, yet not too early for the servants of the khan, who knew enough
European manners to stand about the gate and beg for tips.  Nor were we quite too early for
the enemy, who came out into the open and pelted us with clods of dung, the German encouraging
from the roof.  Fred caught him unaware full in the face with a well-aimed piece of offal.
Then the khan keeper slammed the gate behind us and we rode into the unknown.

Chapter Four "We are the robbers, effendi!"

THE ROAD

There is a mystery concerning roads And he who loves the Road shall never tire. For him the
brooks have voices and the breeze Brings news of far-off leafiness and leas And vales all blossomy.
The clinging mire Shall never weary such an one, nor yet their loads O'ercome the beasts that
serve him. Rock and rill Shall make the pleasant league go by as hours With secret tales they
tell; the loosened stone, Sweet turf upturned, the bees' full-purposed drone, The hum of happy
insects among flowers, And God's blue sky to crown each hill! Dawn with her jewel-throated
birds To him shall be a new page in the Book That never had beginning nor shall end, And each
increasing hour delights shall lend-- New notes in every sound--in every nook New sights----new
thoughts too wide for words, Too deep for pen, too high for human song, That only in the quietness
of winding ways >From tumult and all bitterness apart Can find communication with the heart
- Thoughts that make joyous moments of the days, And no road heavy, and no journey long!

The snow threatened in the mountains had not materialized, and the weather had changed to pure
perfection.  About an hour after we started the khan emptied itself behind us in a long string,
jingling and clanging with horse and camel bells.  But they turned northward to pass through
the famed Circassian Gates, whereas we followed the plain that paralleled the mountain range--our
mules' feet hidden by eight inches of primordial ooze.

"Wish it were only worse!" said Monty.  "Snow or rain might postpone massacre.  Delay might
mean cancellation."

But there was no prospect whatever of rain.  The Asia Minor spring, perfumed and amazing sweet,
breathed all about us, spattered with little diamond-bursts of tune as the larks skyrocketed
to let the wide world know how glad they were.  Whatever dark fate might be brooding over a
nation, it was humanly impossible for us to feel low-spirited.

Our Zeitoonli Armenians trudged through the mud behind us at a splendid pace--mountain-men
with faces toward their hills.  The Turks--owners of the animals another man had hired to us--rode
perched on top of the loads in stoic silence, changing from mule to mule as the hours passed
and watching very carefully that no mule should be overtaxed or chilled.  In fact, the first
attempt they made to enter into conversation with us was when we dallied to admire a view of
Taurus Mountain, and one of them closed up to tell us the mules were catching cold in the wind.
(If they had been our animals it might have been another story.)

Their contempt for the Zeitoonli was perfectly illustrated by the difference in situation.
They rode; the Armenians walked.  Yet the Armenians were less afraid;  and when we crossed
a swollen ford where a mule caught his forefoot between rocks and was drowning, it was Armenians,
not Turks, who plunged into the icy water and worked him free without straining as much as
a tendon.

The Turks were obsessed by perpetual fear of robbers.  That, and no other motive, made them
tolerate the hectoring of Rustum Khan, who had constituted himself officer of transport, and
brought up the rear on his superb bay mare.  As he had promised us he would, he rode well armed,
and the sight of his pistol holsters, the rifle protruding stock-first from a leather case,
and his long Rajput saber probably accomplished more than merely keeping Turks in countenance;
it prevented them from scattering and bolting home.

His own baggage was packed on two mules in charge of an Armenian boy, who was more afraid of
our Turks than they of robbers.  Yet, when we demanded of our muleteers what sort of men, and
of what nation the dreaded highwaymen might be they pointed at Rustum Khan's lean servant.
At the khan the night before one of them had pointed out to Monty two Circassians and a Kurd
as reputed to have a monopoly of robbery on all those roads.       Nevertheless, they made
the new accusation without blinking.

"All robbers are Armenians--all Armenians are robbers!" they assured us gravely.

When we halted for a meal they refused to eat with our Zeitoonli, although they graciously
permitted them to gather all the firewood, and accepted pieces of their pasderma (sun-dried
meat) as if that were their due.  As soon as they had eaten, and before we had finished, Ibrahim,
their grizzled senior, came to us with a new demand.  On its face it was not outrageous, because
we were doing our own cooking, as any man does who has ever peeped into a Turkish servant's
behind-the-scene arrangements.

"Send those Armenians away!" he urged.  "We Turks are worth twice their number!"

"By the beard of God's prophet!" thundered Rustum Khan, "who gave camp-followers the right
to impose advice?"

"They are in league with highwaymen to lead you into a trap!" Ibrahim answered.

Rustum Khan rattled the saber that lay on the rock beside him.

"I am hunting for fear," he said.  "All my life I have hunted for fear and never found it!"

"Pekki!" said Ibrahim dryly.  The word means "very well."  The tone implied that when the emergency
should come we should do well not to depend on him, for he had warned us.

We were marching about parallel with the course the completed Baghdad railway was to take,
and there were frequent parties of surveyors and engineers in sight.  Once we came near enough
to talk with the German in charge of a party, encamped very sumptuously near his work. He had
a numerous armed guard of Turks.

"A precaution against robbers?" Monty asked, and I did not hear what the German answered.

Rustum Khan laughed and drew me aside.

"Every German in these parts has a guard to protect him from his own men, sahib!  For a while
on my journey westward I had charge of a camp of recruited laborers.  Therefore I know."

The German was immensely anxious to know all about us and our intentions. He told us his name
was Hans von Quedlinburg, plainly expecting us to be impressed.

"I can direct you to good quarters, where you can rest comfortably at every stage, if you will
tell me your direction," he said.

But we did not tell him.  Later, while we ate a meal, he came and questioned our Turks very
closely;  but since they were in ignorance they did not tell him either.

"Why do you travel with Armenian servants?" he asked us finally before we moved away.

"We like 'em," said Monty.

"They'll only get you in trouble.  We've dismissed all Armenian laborers from the railway works.
Not trustworthy, you know.  Our agents are out recruiting Moslems."

"What's the matter with Armenians?"

"Oh, don't you know?"

"I'm asking."

The German shrugged his shoulders.

"I'll tell you one thing.  This will illustrate.  I had an Armenian clerk.  He worked all day
in my tent.  A week ago I found him reading among my private papers.  That proves you can't
trust an Armenian."

"Ample evidence!" said Monty without a smile, but Fred laughed as we rode away, and the German
stared after us with a new set of emotions pictured on his heavy face.

Late in the afternoon we passed through a village in which about two hundred Armenian men and
women were holding a gathering in a church large enough to hold three times the number.  One
of them saw us coming, and they all trooped out to meet us, imagining we were officials of
some kind.

"Effendi," said their pastor with a trembling hand on Monty's saddle, "the Turks in this village
have been washing their white garments!"

We had heard in Tarsus what that ceremony meant.

"It means, effendi, they believe their purpose holy!  What shall we do--what shall we do?"

"Why not go into Tarsus and claim protection at the British consulate?" suggested Fred.

"But our friends of Tarsus warn us the worst fury of all will be in the cities!"

"Take to the hills, then!" Monty advised him.

"But how can we, sir?  How can we?  We have homes--property--children! We are watched.  The
first attempt by a number of us to escape to the hills would bring destruction down on all!"

"Then escape to the hills by twos and threes.  You ask my advice --I give it."

It looked like very good advice.  The slopes of the foot-hills seemed covered by a carpet of
myrtle scrub, in which whole armies could have lain in ambush.  And above that the cliffs of
the Kara Dagh rose rocky and wild, suggesting small comfort but sure hiding-places.

"You'll never make me believe you Armenians haven't hidden supplies," said Monty.  "Take to
the hills until the fury is over!"

But the old man shook his head, and his people seemed at one with him.  These were not like
our Zeitoonli, but wore the settled gloom of resignation that is poor half-brother to Moslem
fanaticism, caught by subjection and infection from the bullying Turk.  There was nothing we
could do at that late hour to overcome the inertia produced by centuries, and we rode on, ourselves
infected to the verge of misery. Only our Zeitoonli, striding along like men on holiday, retained
their good spirits, and they tried to keep up ours by singing their extraordinary songs.

During the day we heard of the chicken, as Will called her, somewhere on ahead, and we spent
that night at a kahveh, which is a place with all a khan's inconveniences, but no dignity whatever.
There they knew nothing of her at all.  The guests, and there were thirty besides ourselves,
lay all around the big room on wooden platforms, and talked of nothing but robbers along the
road in both directions.  Every man in the place questioned each of us individually to find
out why we had not been looted on our way of all we owned, and each man ended in a state of
hostile incredulity because we vowed we had met no robbers at all.  They shrugged their shoulders
when we asked for news of Miss Gloria Vanderman.

There was no fear of Ibrahim and his friends decamping in the night, for the Zeitoonli kept
too careful watch, waiting on them almost as thoughtfully as they fetched and carried for us,
but never forgetting to qualify the service with a smile or a word to the Turks to imply that
it was done out of pity for brutish helplessness.

These Zeitoonli of ours were more obviously every hour men of a different disposition to the
meek Armenians of the places where the Turkish heel had pressed.  But for our armed presence
and the respect accorded to the Anglo-Saxon they would have had the whole mixed company down
on them a dozen times that night.

"I'm wondering whether the Armenians within reach of the Turks are not going to suffer for
the sins of mountaineers!" said Fred, as we warmed ourselves at the great open fire at one
end of the room.

"Rot!" Will retorted.  "Sooner or later men begin to dare assert their love of freedom, and
you can't blame 'em if they show it foolishly. Some folk throw tea into harbors--some stick
a king's head on a pole--some take it out for the present in fresh-kid stuff.  These Zeitoonli
are men of spirit, or I'll eat my hat!"

But if we ourselves had not been men of spirit, obviously capable of strenuous self-defense,
our Zeitoonli would have found themselves in an awkward fix that night.

We supped off yoghourt--the Turkish concoction of milk--cow's, goat's, mare's, ewe's or buffalo's
(and the buffalo's is best)--that is about the only food of the country on which the Anglo-Saxon
thrives. Whatever else is fit to eat the Turks themselves ruin by their way of cooking it.
And we left before dawn in the teeth of the owner of the kahveh's warning.

"Dangerous robbers all along the road!" he advised, shaking his head until the fez grew insecure,
while Fred counted out the coins to pay our bill.  "Armenians are without compunction--bad
folk!  Ay, you have weapons, but so have they, and they have the advantage of surprise!  May
Allah the compassionate be witness, I have warned you!"

"There will be more than warnings to be witnessed!", growled Rustum Khan as he rode away. 
"Those others, who sharpened weapons all night long, and spoke of robbers, have been waiting
three days at that kahveh till the murdering begins!"

That morning, on Rustum Khan's advice, we made our Turkish muleteers ride in front of us. 
The Zeitoon men marched next, swinging along with the hillman stride that eats up distance
as the ticked-off seconds eat the day.  And we rode last, admiring the mountain range on our
left, but watchful of other matters, and in position to cut off retreat.

"The last time a Turk ran away from me he took my Gladstone bag with him!" said Fred.  "No,
only Armenians are dishonest.  It was obedience to his prophet, who bade him take advantage
of the giaour--quite a different thing!  Ibrahim's sitting on my kit, and I'm watching him.
You fellows suit yourselves!"

We passed a number of men on foot that morning all coming our way, but no Armenians among them.
However, we exchanged no wayside gossip, because our Zeitoonli in front availed themselves
of privilege and shouted to every stranger to pass at a good distance.

That is a perfectly fair precaution in a land where every one goes armed, and any one may be
a bandit.  But it leads to aloofness. Passers-by made circuits of a half-mile to avoid us,
and when we spurred our mules to get word with them they mistook that for proof of our profession
and bolted.  We chased three men for twenty minutes for the fun of it, only desisting when
one of them took cover behind a bush and fired a pistol at us with his eyes shut.

"Think of the lies he'll tell in the kahveh to-night about beating off a dozen robbers single-handed!"
Will laughed.

"Let's chase the next batch, too, and give the kahveh gang an ear-full!"

"I rather think not," said Monty.  "They'll say we're Armenian criminals. Let's not be the spark."

He was right, so we behaved ourselves, and within an hour we had trouble enough of another
sort. The oracle gave him an answer which might be the victory of Pyrrhus, and the Romans his
enemies when consulted by Pyrrhus.
Aio te Aeacida, Romanos vincere posse 
The fallacy lies in the construction
of the Latin tongue, which cannot be rendered in English.

Croesus is advised by Pythoness to guard against the mule.

[17] The oracle said that Cyrus is descended from two different nations, Medes by Mandana
his mother, daughter of Astyages and Persia by his father Cambyses of grand and illustrious race.
The king of Lydia did not under stand the oracle. Oracle of Delphos prophesied to Nero that that
seventy-three might prove fatal to him, who believed to be safe from
all danger till age.

Finding himself deserted by every one, and hearing Galba proclaimed emperor, who was seventy-three
years of age, he was felt the deceit of the oracle.

If the devils speak any truth, coincidently they always join lies to it and use such uncertain
expressions, that they may be equally applied to contrary events, observes St. Jerome.
URIM AND THUMMIM
While the false oracles of demons deceived the ideal nations. Cheating popular among the chosen
people of God.

The critical works have interpreted Urim and Thummim, manifestation and truth, [Greek: daelosin
is alaetheian]; which expresses how different those divine oracles were from the false and misleading
demons.

It is said, in the Book of Numbers, that Eleazar, the successor of Aaron, shall interrogate Urim
in form, and that a resolution shall be taken according to the answer given.
The Ephod applied to the chest of the priestly garments of the high-priest,
was a piece of stuff covered with twelve precious stones, on which
the names of the twelve tribes were engraved.

He could only be consulted by the Lord Urim and Thummim, for the king, the president of the
sanhedrim, the general of the army, and other public persons, and on affairs that regarded the
general interest of the nation.

If the affair was to succeed, the stones of the ephod emitted a sparkling light, or the high-priest
inspired predicted the success. Josephus, who was born thirty-nine years after Christ, says that it
was then two hundred years since the stones of the ephod had given an answer to consultations by their
extraordinary luster.

We should understand by Urim and Thummim, the divine inspiration annexed to the consecrated breast-plate.
The Scriptures inform us, that Urim and Thummim were something that Moses had put in the high-priest's
breast-plate. Some Rabbins by firm prepositions believed that they were two small statues hidden
within the breast-plate for others the comprehensive name of God, written in a mysterious-manner.

Several passages of Scripture leave room to believe, that a power of speech came from the propitiatory,
or holy of holies, beyond the veil of the portable dwelling place, and that this voice was
heard by the high-priest.  Somebody on a gray stallion came loping down toward us, leaping low
bushes, riding erect with pluperfect hands and seat.

"I've seen that stallion before!" said I.

"And the girl on his back is looking for somebody who owns her heart!" smiled Monty.  "Hullo!
Are you the lucky man?"'

She reined the stallion in, and took a good, long look at us, shading her eyes with her hand
but showing dazzling white teeth between coral lips.  Suddenly the smile departed, and a look
of sullen disappointment settled on her face, as she wheeled the stallion with a swing of her
lithe body from the hips, and loped away.  Never, apparently, did two men make less impression
on a maiden's heart.  The six gipsies stood staring at us foolishly, until one of them at last
held his hand up palm outward.  We accepted that as a peace signal.

"Are you waiting here for us?" Monty asked in English, and the oldest of the six--a swarthy
little man with rather bow legs--thought he had been asked his name.

"Gregor Jhaere," be answered.

For some vague reason Monty tried him next in Arabic and then in Hindustanee, but without result.
At last he tried halting Turkish, and the gipsy replied at once in German.  As Monty used to
get two-pence or three-pence a day extra when he was in the British army, for knowing something
of that tongue, we stood at once on common ground.

"Kagig told us to wait here and bring you to him," said Gregor Jhaere.

"Where is Kagig?" Monty asked, and the man smiled blankly--much more effectively than if he
had shrugged his shoulders.

"We obey Kagig at times," he said, as if that admission settled the matter.  Then there was
interruption.  Rustum Khan came spurring down the road with his pistol holsters unbuttoned
and his saber clattering like a sutler's pots and pans, to see whether we needed help.  He
had no sooner reined in beside us than I caught sight of Will, drawn between curiosity and
fear lest the muleteers might bolt, standing in his stirrups to peer at us from the top of
the track between the hillocks.  Somebody else caught sight of him too.

There came a shrill about from over where the women were packing up, and everybody turned to
look, Gregor Jhaere included.  As hard as the gray stallion could take her in a bee line toward
Will the daughter of the dawn with flashing teeth and blazing eyes was riding ventre a terre.

"Maga!" Gregor shouted at her, and then some unintelligible gibberish. But she took no more
notice of him than if he had been a crow on a branch.  In a minute she was beside Will, talking
to him, and from over the top of the rise we could hear Fred shouting sarcastic remonstrance.

"She is bad!" Gregor announced in English.  It seemed to be all the English he knew.

"Are you her father?" Monty asked, and Gregor answered in very slipshod German:

"She is the daughter of the devil.  She shall be soundly thrashed! The chalana!* And he a Gorgio!"**

---------------- * Chalana--She jockey (a compliment). ** Gorgio--Gentile (an insult). ----------------

Suddenly Fred began to shout for help then, and we rode back, the gipsies following and Rustum
Khan remaining on guard between them and their camp with his upbrushed black beard bristling
defiance of Asia Minor.  Our Turkish muleteers had decided to make a final bolt for it, and
were using their whips on the Zeitoonli, who clung gamely to the reins.  As soon as we got
near enough to lend a hand the Turks resigned themselves with a kind of opportune fatalism.
The Zeitoonli promptly turned the tables on them by laying hold of a leg of each and tipping
them off into the mud.  Ibrahim showed his teeth, and reached for a hidden weapon as he lay,
but seemed to think better of it.  It looked very much as if those four Zeitoonli knew in advance
exactly what the interruption in our journey meant.

Will was out of the running entirely, or else the rest of us were, depending on which way one
regarded it.  He had eyes for nobody and nothing but the girl, nor she for any one but him,
and nobody could rightfully blame either of them.  Yankee though he is, Will sat his mule in
the western cowboy style, and he was wearing a cowboy hat that set his youth off to perfection.
She looked fit to flirt with the lord of the underworld, answering his questions in a way that
would have made any fellow eager to ask more.  Strangely enough, Gregor Jhaere, presumably
father of the girl appeared to have lost his anger at her doings and turned his back.

Fred, smiling mischief, started toward them to horn in, as Will would have described it, but
at that moment about a dozen of the gipsy women came padding uproad, fostered watchfully by
Rustum Khan, who seemed convinced that murder was intended somehow, somewhere.  They brought
along horses with them--very good horses--and Fred prefers a horse trade to triangular flirtation
on any day of any week.

The gipsies promptly fell to and off-saddled our loads under Gregor Jhaere's eye, transferring
them to the meaner-looking among the beasts the women had brought, taking great care to drop
nothing in the mud. And at a word from Gregor two of the oldest hags came to lift us from our
saddles one by one, and hold us suspended in mid-air while the saddles were transferred to
better mounts.  But there is an indignity in being held out of the mud by women that goes fiercely
against the white man's grain, and I kicked until they set me back in the saddle.

Monty solved the problem by riding to higher, clean ground near the roadside, where we could
stand on firm grass.

Seeing us dismounted, the gipsies underwent a subtle mental change peculiar to all barbarous
people.  To the gipsy and the cossack, and all people mainly dependent on the horse, to be
mounted is to signify participation in affairs.  To be dismounted means to stand aside and
"let George do it."

Gregor Jhaere became a different man.  He grew noisy and in response to his yelped commands
they swooped in unprovoked attack on our unhappy muleteers.  Before we could interfere they
had thrown each Turk face downward, our Zeitoonli helping, and were searching them with swift
intruding fingers for knives, pistols, money.

The Turk leaves his money behind when starting on a journey at some other man's expense;  but
they did draw forth a most astonishing assortment of weapons.  They were experts in disarmament.
Maga Jhaere lost interest in Will for a moment, and pricked her stallion to a place where she
could judge the assortment better. Without any hesitation she ordered one of the old women
to pass up to her a mother-o'-pearl ornamented Smith & Wesson, which she promptly hid in her
bosom. Judging by the sounds he made, that pistol was the apple of Ibrahim's old eye, but he
had seen the last of it.  When we interfered, and he could get to her stirrup to demand it
back, Maga spat in his face; which was all about it, except that Monty made generous allowance
for the thing when paying the reckoning presently.  As our servants, those Turks were, of course,
entitled to our protection, and besides that weapon we had to pay for five knives that were
gone beyond hope of recovery.

Monty paid our Turks off (for it was evident that even had they been willing they would not
have been allowed to proceed with us another mile).  Then, as Ibrahim mounted and marshaled
his party in front of him, he forgot manners as well as the liberal payment.

"Mashallah!" (God be praised!) he shouted, with the slobber of excitement on his lips and beard.
"Now I go to make Armenians pay for this! Let the shapkali,* too, avoid me!  Ya Ali, ya Mahoma,
Alahu!"  (Oh, Ali, oh, Mahomet, God is God!)

--------------- * Shapkali--hatted man-foreigner. ---------------

"Let's hope they haven't a spark of honesty!" said Monty cryptically, watching them canter away.

"Why on earth--?"

"Let's hope they ride back to the consul and swear they haven't received one piaster of their
pay.  That would let him know we're clear away!"

"Optimist!" jeered Will.  "That consul's a Britisher.  He'd take their lie literally, and deduce
we're no good!"

For the moment the girl on the gray stallion had ridden away from Will and was giving regal
orders to the mob of women and shrill children, who obeyed her as if well used to it.  Gregor
Jhaere and his men stood staring at us, Gregor shaking his head as if our letting the Turks
go free had been a bad stroke of policy.

"Aren't you afraid to travel with all that mob of women and cattle?" asked Monty.  "We've heard
of robbers on the road."

"We are the robbers, effendi!" said Gregor with an air of modesty. The others smirked, but
he seemed disinclined to over-insist on the gulf between us.

"Hear him!" growled Rustum Khan.  "A thief, who boasts of thieving in the presence of sahibs!
So is corruption, stinking in the sun!"

He added something in another language that the gipsies understood, for Gregor started as if
stung and swore at him, and Maga Jhaere left her women-folk to ride alongside and glare into
his eyes.  They were enemies, those two, from that hour forward.  He, once Hindu, now Moslem,
had no admiration whatever to begin with for unveiled women.  And, since the gipsy claims to
come from India and may therefore be justly judged by Indian standards, and has no caste, but
is beneath the very lees of caste, he loathed all gipsies with the prejudice peculiar to men
who have deserted caste in theory and in self-protection claim themselves above it.  It was
a case of height despising deep in either instance, she as sure of her superiority as he of his.

There might have been immediate trouble if Monty had not taken his new, restless, fresh horse
by the mane and swung into the saddle.

"Forward, Rustum Khan!" be ordered.  "Ride ahead and let those keen eyes of yours keep us out
of traps!"

The Rajput obeyed, but as he passed Will he checked his mare a moment, and waiting until Will's
blue eyes met his he raised a warning finger.

"Kubadar, sahib!"

Then he rode on, like a man who has done his duty.

"What the devil does he mean?" demanded Will.

"Kubadar means, 'Take care'!" said Monty.  "Come on, what are we waiting for?"

That was the beginning, too, of Will's feud with the Rajput, neither so remorseless nor so
sudden as the woman's, because he had a different code to guide him and also had to convince
himself that a quarrel with a man of color was compatible with Yankee dignity.  We could have
wished them all three either friends, or else a thousand miles apart two hundred times before
the journey ended.

As we rode forward with even our Zeitoonli mounted now on strong mules, Maga Jhaere sat her
stallion beside Will with an air of owning him.  She was likely a safer friend than enemy,
and we did nothing to interfere.  Monty pressed forward.  Fred and I fell to the rear.

"Haide!"* shouted Gregor Jhaere, and all the motley swarm of women and children caught themselves
mounts--some already loaded with the gipsy baggage, some with saddles, some without, some with
grass halters for bridles.  In another minute Fred and I were riding surrounded by a smelly
swarm of them, he with big fingers already on the keys of his beloved concertina, but I less
enamored than he of the company.

----------------- * Haide!--Turkish, "Come on!" -----------------

Women and children, loaded, loose and led horses were all mixed together in unsortable confusion,
the two oldest hags in the world trusting themselves on sorry, lame nags between Fred and me
as if proximity to us would solve the very riddle of the gipsy race.  And last of all came
a pack of great scrawny dogs that bayed behind us hungrily, following for an hour until hope
of plunder vanished.

"That little she-devil who has taken a fancy to Will," said Fred with a grin, "is capable of
more atrocities than all the Turks between here and Stamboul!  She looks to me like Santanita,
Cleopatra, Salome, Caesar's wife, and all the Borgia ladies rolled in one.  There's something
added, though, that they lacked."

"Youth," said I.  "Beauty.  Athletic grace.  Sinuous charm."

"No, probably they all had all those."

"Then horsemanship."

"Perhaps.  Didn't Cleopatra ride?"

"Then what?" said I, puzzled.

"Indiscretion!" he answered, jerking loose the catch of his infernal instrument.

"Don't be afraid, old ladies," he said, glancing at the harridans between us.  "I'm only going
to sing!"

He makes up nearly all of his songs, and some of them, although irreverent, are not without
peculiar merit;  but that was one of his worst ones.

The preachers prate of fallen man And choirs repeat the chant, While unco' guid with unction
urge Repression of the joys that surge, And jail for those who can't. The poor deluded duds
forget That something drew the sting When Adam tiptoed to his fall, And made it hardly hurt
at all. Of Mother Eve I sing!

CHORUS Oh, Mother Eve, dear Mother Eve, The generations come and go, But daughter Eve's as
live as you Were back in Eden years ago!

Oh, hell's not hell with Eve to tell Again the ancient tale, But Eden's grassy ways and bowers
Deprived of Eve to ease the hours Would very soon grow stale! Red cherry lips that leap to
laugh, And chic and flick and flair Can make black white for any one-- The task of Sisyphus
good fun! So what should Adam care!

CHORUS Oh, daughter Eve, dear daughter Eve, The tribulations go and come, But no adventure's
ever tame With you to make surprises hum!

Chapter Five "Effendi, that is the heart of Armenia burning."

THE PATTERAN

(I)

Aye-yee--I see--a cloud afloat in air af amethyst I know its racing shadow falls on banks of
gold Where rain-rejoicing gravel warms the feeding roots And smells more wonderful than wine.
I know the shoots of myrtle and of asphodel now stir the mould Where wee cool noses sniff the
early mist. Aye-yee--the sparkle of the little springs I see That tinkle as they hunt the thirsty
rill. I know the cobwebs glitter with the jeweled dew. I see a fleck of brown--it was a skylark
flew To scatter bursting music, and the world is still To listen.  Ah, my heart is bursting
too--Aye-yee!

Chorus: (It begins with a swinging crash, and fades away.)

Aye-yee, aye-yah--the kites see far
(But also to the foxes views unfold)--
No hour alike, no places twice the same,
Nor any track to show where morning came,
Nor any footprint in the moistened mould
To tell who covered up the morning star.
      Aye-yee--aye-yah!

(2) Aye-yee--I see--new rushes crowding upwards in the mere Where, gold and white, the wild
duck preens himself Safe hidden till the sun-drawn, lingering mists melt. I know the secret
den where bruin dwelt. I see him now sun-basking on a shelf Of windy rock.  He looks down on
the deer, Who flit like flowing light from rock to tree And stand with ears alert before they
drink. I know a pool of purple rimmed with white Where wild-fowl, warming for the morning flight,
Wait clustering and crying on the brink. And I know hillsides where the partridge breeds.  Aye-yee!

Chorus:
Aye-yee, aye-yah--the kites see far
(But also to the owls the visions change)--
No dawn is like the next, and nothing sings
Of sameness--very hours have wings
And leave no word of whose hand touched the range
Of Kara Dagh with opal and with cinnabar.
      Aye-yee, aye-yah!

(3) Aye-yee--I see--new distances beyond a blue horizon flung. I laugh, because the people
under roofs believe That last year's ways are this! No roads are old! New grass has grown!
All pools and rivers hold New water! And the feathered singers weave New nests, forgetting
where the old ones hung! Aye-yah--the muddy highway sticks and clings, But I see in the open
pastures new Unknown to busne* in the houses pent! I hear the new, warm raindrops drumming
on the tent, I feel already on my feet delicious dew, I see the trail outflung!  And oh, my
heart has wings!

Chorus:
Aye-yee, aye-yah--the kites see far
(But also on the road the visions pass)--
The universe reflected in a wayside pool,
A tinkling symphony where seeping waters drool,
The dance, more gay than laughter, of the wind-swept grass--
Oh, onward!  On to where the visions are!
      Aye-yee--aye-yah!

--------------------- * Busne--Gipsy word--Gentile, or non-gipsy. ---------------------

Russia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Bohemia, Persia, Armenia were all one hunting-ground to the troupe
we rode with.  Even the children seemed to have a smattering of most of the tongues men speak
in those intriguing lands.  Will and the girl beside him conversed in German, but the old hag
nearest me would not confess acquaintance with any language I knew.  Again and again I tried
her, but she always shook her head.

Fred, with his ready gift of tongues, attempted conversation with ten or a dozen of them, but
whichever language he used in turn appeared to be the only one which that particular individual
did not know. All he got in reply was grins, and awkward silence, and shrugs of the shoulders
in Gregor's direction, implying that the head of the firm did the talking with strangers. 
But Gregor rode alone with Monty, out of ear-shot.

Maga (for so they all called her) flirted with Will outrageously, if that is flirting that
proclaims conquest from the start, and sets flashing white teeth in defiance of all intruders.
Even the little children had hidden weapons, but Maga was better armed than any one, and she
thrust the new mother-o-pearl-plated acquisition in the face of one of the men who dared drive
his horse between hers and Will's. That not serving more than to amuse him, she slapped him
three times back-handed across the face, and thrusting the pistol back into her bosom, drew
a knife.  He seemed in no doubt of her willingness to use the steel, and backed his horse away,
followed by language from her like forked lightning that disturbed him more than the threatening
weapon.  Gipsies are great believers in the efficiency of a curse.

Nothing could be further from the mark than to say that Will tried to take advantage of Maga's
youth and savagery.  Fred and I had shared a dozen lively adventures with him without more
than beginning yet to plumb the depths of his respect for Woman.  Only an American in all the
world knows how to meet Young Woman eye to eye with totally unpatronizing frankness, and he
was without guile in the matter. But not so she.  We did not know whether or not she was Gregor
Jhaere's daughter;  whether or not she was truly the gipsy that she hardly seemed.  But she
was certainly daughter of the Near East that does not understand a state of peace between the
sexes.  There was nothing lawful in her attitude, nor as much as the suspicion that Will might
be merely chivalrous.

"America's due for sex-enlightenment!" said I.

"Warn him if you like," Fred laughed, "and then steer clear!  Our America is proud besides
imprudent!"

Fred off-shouldered all responsibility and forestalled anxiety on any one's account by playing
tunes, stampeding the whole cavalcade more than once because the horses were unused to his
clanging concertina, but producing such high spirits that it became a joke to have to dismount
in the mud and replace the load on some mule who had expressed enjoyment of the tune by rolling
in slime, or by trying to kick clouds out of the sky.

And strangely enough he brought about the very last thing he intended with his music--stopped
the flirtation's immediate progress.  Maga seemed to take to Fred's unchastened harmony with
all the wildness that possessed her.  Some chord he struck, or likelier, some abandoned succession
of them touched off her magazine of poetry.  And so she sang.

The only infinitely gorgeous songs I ever listened to were Maga's. Almighty God, who made them,
only really knows what country the gipsies originally came from, but there is not a land that
has not felt their feet, nor a sorrow they have not witnessed.  Away back in the womb of time
there was planted in them a rare gift of seeing what the rest of us can only sometimes hear,
and of hearing what only very few from the world that lives in houses can do more than vaguely
feel when at the peak of high emotion.  The gipsies do not understand what they see, and hear,
and feel;  but they are aware of infinities too intimate for ordinary speech.  And it was given
to Maga to sing of all that, with a voice tuned like a waterfall's for open sky, and trees,
and distances--not very loud, but far-carrying, and flattened in quarter-tones where it touched
the infinite.

Fred very soon ceased from braying with his bellowed instrument. Her songs were too wild for
accompaniment--interminable stanzas of unequal length, with a refrain at the end of each that
rose through a thousand emotions to a crash of ecstasy, and then died away to dreaminess, coming
to an end on an unfinished rising scale.

All the gipsies and our Zeitoonli and Rustum Khan's lean servant joined in the refrains, so
that we trotted along under the snow-tipped fangs of the Kara Dagh oblivious of the passage
of time, but very keenly conscious of touch with a realm of life whose existence hitherto we
had only vaguely guessed at.

The animals refused to weary while that singing testified of tireless harmonies, as fresh yet
as on the day when the worlds were born. We rattled forward, on and upward, as if the panorama
were unrolling and we were the static point, getting out of nobody's way for the best reason
in the world--that everybody hid at first sight or sound of us, except when we passed near
villages, and then the great fierce-fanged curs chased and bayed behind us in short-winded fury.

"The dogs bark," quoted Fred serenely, "but the caravan moves on!"

An hour before dark we swung round a long irregular spur of the hills that made a wide bend
in the road, and halted at a lonely kahveh --a wind-swept ruin of a place, the wall of whose
upper story was patched with ancient sacking, but whose owner came out and smiled so warmly
on us that we overlooked the inhospitable frown of his unplastered walls, hoping that his smile
and the profundity of his salaams might prove prophetic of comfort and cleanliness within.
Vain hope!

Maga left Will's side then, for there was iron-embedded custom to be observed about this matter
of entering a road-house.  In that land superstition governs just as fiercely as the rest those
who make mock of the rule-of-rod religions, and there is no man or woman free to behave as
be or she sees fit.  Every one drew aside from Monty, and he strode in alone through the split-and-mended
door, we following next, and the gipsies with their animals clattered noisily behind us.  The
women entered last, behind the last loaded mule, and Maga the very last of all, because she
was the most beautiful, and beauty might bring in the devil with it only that the devil is
too proud to dawdle behind the old hags and the horses.

We found ourselves in an oblong room, with stalls and a sort of pound for animals at one end
and an enormous raised stone fireplace at the other.  Wooden platforms for the use of guests
faced each other down the two long sides, and the only promise of better than usual comfort
lay in the piles of firewood waiting for whoever felt rich and generous enough to foot the
bill for a quantity.

But an agreeable surprise made us feel at home before ever the fire leaped up to warm the creases
out of saddle-weary limbs.  We had given up thinking of Kagig, not that we despaired of him,
but the gipsies, and especially Maga, had replaced his romantic interest for the moment with
their own.  Now all the man's own exciting claim on the imagination returned in full flood,
as he arose leisurely from a pile of skins and blankets near the hearth to greet Monty, and
shouted with the manner of a chieftain for fuel to be piled on instantly--"For a great man
comes!" he announced to the rafters. And the kahveh servants, seven sons of the owner of the
place, were swift and abject in the matter of obeisance.  They were Turks.  All Turks are demonstrative
in adoration of whoever is reputed great. Monty ignored them, and Kagig came down the length
of the room to offer him a hand on terms of blunt equality.

"Lord Montdidier," he said, mispronouncing the word astonishingly, "this is the furthest limit
of my kingdom yet.  Kindly be welcome!"

"Your kingdom?" said Monty, shaking hands, but not quite accepting the position of blood-equal.
He was bigger and better looking than Kagig, and there was no mistaking which was the abler
man, even at that first comparison, with Kagig intentionally making the most of a dramatic
situation.

Kagig laughed, not the least nervously.

"Mirza," he said in Persian, "duzd ne giriftah padshah ast!"  (Prince, the uncaught thief is king.)

He was wearing a kalpak--the head-gear of the cossack, which would make a high priest look
outlawed, and a shaggy goat-skin coat that had seen more than one campaign.  Unmistakably the
garment had been slit by bullets, and repaired by fingers more enthusiastic than adept. There
was a pride of poverty about him that did not gibe well with his boast of being a robber.

"That's the first gink we've met in this land who didn't claim to be something better than
he looked!" Will whispered.

"Hopeless, I suppose!" Fred answered.  "Never mind.  I like the man."

It was evident that Monty liked him, too, for all his schooled reserve. Kagig ordered one of
the owner's sons to sweep a place near the fire, and there he superintended the spreading of
Monty's blankets, close enough to his own assorted heap for conversation without mutual offense.
Will cleaned for himself a section of the opposite end of the platform, and Fred and I spread
our blankets next to his.  That left Rustum Khan in a quandary.  He stood irresolute for a
minute, eying first the gipsies, who had stalled most of their animals and were beginning to
occupy the platform on the other side;  then considering the wide gap between me and Monty.
The dark-skinned man of breeding is far more bitterly conscious of the color-line than any
white knows how to be.

We watched, disinclined to do the choosing for him, racial instinct uppermost.  Rustum Khan
strolled back to where his mare was being cleaned by the lean Armenian servant, gave the boy
a few curt orders, and there among the shadows made his mind up.  He returned and stood before
Monty, Kagig eying him with something less than amiability. He pointed toward the ample room
remaining between Monty and me.

"Will the sahib permit?  My izzat (honor) is in question."

"Izzat be damned!" Monty answered.

Rustum Khan colored darkly.

"I shared a tent with you once on campaign, sahib, in the days before --the good days before--those
old days when--"

"When you and I served one Raj, eh? I remember," Monty answered. "I remember it was your tent,
Rustum Khan.  Unless memory plays tricks with me, the Orakzai Pathans had burned mine, and
I had my choice between sharing yours or sleeping in the rain."

"Truly, huzoor."

"I don't recollect that I mouthed very much about honor on that occasion. If anybody's honor
was in question then, I fancy it was yours.  I might have inconvenienced myself, and dishonored
you, I suppose, by sleeping in the wet.  You can dishonor the lot of us now, if you care to,
by--oh, tommyrot!  Tell your man to put your blankets in the only empty place, and behave like
a man of sense!"

"But, huzoor--"

Monty dismissed the subject with a motion of his hand, and turned to talk with Kagig, who shouted
for yoghourt to be brought at once; and that set the sons of the owner of the place to hurrying
in great style.  The owner himself was a true Turk.  He had subsided into a state of kaif already
over on the far side of the fire, day-dreaming about only Allah knew what rhapsodies.  But
the Turks intermarry with the subject races much more thoroughly than they do anything else,
and his sons did not resemble him.  They were active young men, rather noisy in their robust
desire to be of use.

The gipsies, with Gregor Jhaere nearest to the owner of the kahveh and the fireplace, occupied
the whole long platform on the other side, each with his women around him--except that I noticed
that Maga avoided all the men, and made herself a blanket nest in deep shadow almost within
reach of a mule's heels at the far end.  I believed at the moment that she chose that position
so as to be near to Will, but changed my mind later.  Several times Gregor shouted for her,
and she made no answer.

The place had no other occupants.  Either we were the only travelers on that road that night
or, as seemed more likely, Kagig had exercised authority and purged the kahveh of other guests.
Certainly our coming had been expected, for there was very good yoghourt in ample quantity,
and other food besides--meat, bread, cheese, vegetables.

When we had all eaten, and lay back against the stone wall looking at the fire, with great
fanged shadows dancing up and down that made the scene one of almost perfect savagery,  Gregor
called again for Maga.  Again she did not answer him.  So be rose from his place and reached
for a rawhide whip.

"I said she shall be thrashed!" be snarled in Turkish, and he made the whip crack three times
like sudden pistol-shots.  Will did not catch the words, and might not have understood them
in any case, but Rustum Khan, beside me, both heard and understood.

"Atcha!" he grunted.  "Now we shall see a kind of happenings.  That girl is not a true gipsy,
or else my eyes lie to me.  They stole her, or adopted her.  She lacks their instincts.  The
gitanas, as they call their girls, are expected to have aversion to white men. They are allowed
to lure a white man to his ruin, but not to make hot love to him.  She has offended against
the gipsy law.  The attaman* must punish.  Watch the women.  They take it all as a matter of
course."

---------------- *Attaman, gipsy headman. ----------------

"Maga!" thundered Gregor Jhaere, cracking the great whip again. I thought that Kagig looked
a trifle restless, but nobody else went so far as to exhibit interest, except that the old
Turk by the fire emerged far enough out of kaif to open one eye, like a sly cat's.

The attaman shouted again, and this time Maga mocked him.  So he strode down the room in a
rage to enforce his authority, and dragged her out of the shadow by an arm, sending her whirling
to the center of the floor.  She did not lose her feet, but spun and came to a stand, and waited,
proud as Satanita while he drew the whip slowly back with studied cruelty.  The old Turk opened
both eyes.

Nothing is more certain than that none of us would have permitted the girl to be thrashed.
I doubt if even Rustum Khan, no admirer of gipsies or unveiled women, would have tolerated
one blow.  But Will was nearest, and he is most amazing quick when his nervous New England
temper is aroused.  He had the whip out of Gregor's hand, and stood on guard between him and
the girl before one of us had time to move.  The old Turk closed his eyes again, and sighed
resignedly.

"Our preux chevalier--preux but damned imprudent!" murmured Fred. "Let's hope there's a gipsy
here with guts enough to fight for title to the girl.  It looks to me as if Will has claimed
her by patteran* law.  The only man with right to say whether or not a woman shall be thrashed
is her owner.  Once that right is established--"

--------------- * Patteran, a gipsy word: trail. ---------------

"Touch her and I'll break your neck!" warned Will, without undue emotion, but truthfully beyond
a shadow of a doubt.

The gipsy stood still, simmering, and taking the measure of the capable American muscles interposed
between him and his legal prey.  Every gipsy eye in the room was on him, and it was perfectly
obvious that whatever the eventual solution of the impasse, the one thing he could not do was
retreat.  We were fewer in number, but much better armed than the gipsy party, so that it was
unlikely they would rally to their man's aid.  Kagig was an unknown quantity, but except that
his black eyes glittered rather more brightly than usual he made no sign;  and we kept quiet
because we did not want to start a free-for-all fight.   Will was quite able to take care of
any single opponent, and would have resented aid.

Suddenly, however, Gregor Jhaere reached inside his shirt.  Maga screamed.  Rustum Khan beside
me swore a rumbling Rajput oath, and we all four leapt to our feet.  Maga drew no weapon, although
she certainly had both dagger and pistol handy.  Instead, she glanced toward Kagig, who, strangely
enough, was lolling on his blankets as if nothing in the world could interest him less.  The
glance took as swift effect as an electric spark that fires a mine.  He stiffened instantly.

"Yok!" he shouted, and at once there ceased to be even a symptom of impending trouble.  Yok
means merely no in Turkish, but it conveyed enough to Gregor to send him back to his place
between his women and the Turk unashamedly obedient, leaving Maga standing beside Will. Maga
did not glance again at Kagig, for I watched intently.  There was simply no understanding the
relationship, although Fred affected his usual all-comprehensive wisdom.

"Another claimant to the title!" he said.  "A fight between Will and Kagig for that woman ought
to be amusing, if only Will weren't a friend of mine.  Watch America challenge him!"

But Will did nothing of the kind.  He smiled at Maga, offered her a cigarette, which she refused,
and returned to his place beyond Fred, leaving her standing there, as lovely in the glowing
firelight as the spirit of bygone romance.  At that Kagig shouted suddenly for fuel, and three
of the Turk's seven hoydens ran to heap it on.

Instantly the leaping flames transformed the great, uncomfortable, draughty barn into a hall
of gorgeous color and shadows without limit. There was no other illumination, except for the
glow here and there of pipes and cigarettes, or matches flaring for a moment. Barring the tobacco,
we lay like a baron's men-at-arms in Europe of the Middle Ages, with a captive woman to make
sport with in the midst, only rather too self-reliant for the picture.

Feeling himself warm, and rested, and full enough of food, Fred flung a cigarette away and
reached for his inseparable concertina.  And with his eyes on the great smoked beams that now
glowed gold and crimson in the firelight, he grew inspired and made his nearest to sweet rnusic.
It was perfectly in place--simple as the savagery that framed us--Fred's way of saying grace
for shelter, and adventure, and a meal.  He passed from Annie Laurie to Suwannee River, and
all but made Will cry.

During two-three-four tunes Maga stood motionless in the midst of us, hands on her hips, with
the fire-light playing on her face, until at last Fred changed the nature of the music and
seemed to be trying to recall fragments of the song she had sung that afternoon.  Presently
he came close to achievement, playing a few bars over and over, and leading on from those into
improvization near enough to the real thing to be quite recognizable.

Music is the sure key to the gipsy heart, and Fred unlocked it. The men and women, and the
little sleepy children on the long wooden platform opposite began to sway and swing in rhythm.
Fred divined what was coming, and played louder, wilder, lawlessly.  And Maga did an astonishing
thing.  She sat down on the floor and pulled her shoes and stockings off, as unselfconsciously
as if she were alone.

Then Fred began the tune again from the beginning, and he had it at his finger-ends by then.
He made the rafters ring.  And without a word Maga kicked the shoes and stockings into a corner,
flung her outer, woolen upper-garment after them, and began to dance.

There is a time when any of us does his best.  Money--marriage--praise --applause (which is
totally another thing than praise, and more like whisky in its workings)--ambition--prayer--there
is a key to the heart of each of us that can unlock the flood-tides of emotion and carry us
nolens volens to the peaks of possibility.  Either Will, or else Fred's music, or the setting,
or all three unlocked her gifts that night.  She danced like a moth in a flame--a wandering
woman in the fire unquenchable that burns convention out of gipsy hearts, and makes the patteran--the
trail--the only way worth while.

Opposite, the gipsies sprawled in silence on their platform, breathing a little deeper when
deepest approval stirred them, a little more quickly when her Muse took hold of Maga and thrilled
her to expression of the thoughts unknown to people of the dinning walls and streets.

We four leaned back against our wall in a sort of silent revelry, Fred alone moving, making
his beloved instrument charm wisely, calling to her just enough to keep a link, as it were,
through which her imagery might appeal to ours.  Some sort of mental bridge between her tameless
paganism and our twentieth-century twilight there had to be, or we never could have sensed
her meaning.  The concertina's wailings, mid-way between her intelligence and ours, served
well enough.

My own chief feeling was of exultation, crowing over the hooded city-folk, who think that drama
and the tricks of colored light and shade have led them to a glimpse of the hem of the garment
of Unrest --a cheap mean feeling, of which I was afterward ashamed.

Maga was not crowing over anybody.  Neither did she only dance of things her senses knew. 
The history of a people seized her for a reed, and wrote itself in figures past imagining between
the crimson firelight; and the shadows of the cattle stalls.

Her dance that night could never have been done with leather between bare foot and earth. 
It told of measureless winds and waters--of the distances, the stars, the day, the night-rain
sweeping down--dew dropping gently--the hundred kinds of birds-the thousand animals and creeping
things--and of man, who is lord of all of them, and woman, who is lord of man--man setting
naked foot on naked earth and glorying with the thrill of life, new, good, and wonderful.

One of the Turk's seven sons produced a saz toward the end--a little Turkish drum, and accompanied
with swift, staccato stabs of sound that spurred her like the goads of overtaking time toward
the peak of full expression--faster and faster--wilder and wilder--freer and freer of all limits,
until suddenly she left the thing unfinished, and the drum-taps died away alone.

That was art--plain art.  No human woman could have finished it. It was innate abhorrence of
the anticlimax that sent her, having looked into the eyes of the unattainable, to lie sobbing
for short breath in her corner in the dark, leaving us to imagine the ending if we could.

And instead of anticlimax second climax came.  Almost before the echoes of the drum-taps died
among the dancing shadows overhead a voice cried from the roof in Armenian, and Kagig rose
to his feet.

"Let us climb to the roof and see, effendim," he said, pulling on his tattered goat-skin coat.

"See what, Ermenie?" demanded Rustum Khan.  The Rajput's eyes were still ablaze with pagan
flame, from watching Maga.

"To see whether thou hast manhood behind that swagger!" answered Kagig, and led the way.  No
man ever yet explained the racial aversions.

"Kopek!--dog, thou!" growled the Rajput, but Kagig took no notice and led on, followed by Monty
and the rest of us.  Maga and the gipsies came last, swarming behind us up the ladder through
a hole among the beams, and clambering on to the roof over boxes piled in the draughty attic.
Up under the stars a man was standing with an arm stretched out toward Tarsus.

"Look!" he said simply.

To the westward was a crimson glow that mushroomed angrily against the sky, throbbing and swelling
with hot life like the vomit of a crater.  We watched in silence for three minutes, until one
of the gipsy women began to moan.

"What do you suppose it is?" I asked then.

"I know what it is," said Kagig simply.

"Tell then."

"'Effendi, that is the heart of Armenia burning.  Those are the homes of my nation--of my kin!"

"And good God, where d'you suppose Miss Vanderman is?" Fred exclaimed.

Will was standing beside Maga, looking into her eyes as if he hoped to read in them the riddle
of Armenia.

Chapter Six "Passing the buck to Allah!"

LAUS LACHRIMABILIS

So now the awaited ripe reward - Your cactus crown!  Since I have urged "Get ready for the
untoward" Ye bid me reap the wrath I dirged; And I must show the darkened way, Who beckoned
vainly in the light! I'll lead.  But salt of Dead Sea spray Were sweeter on my lips to-night!

Oh, days of aching sinews, when I trod the choking dust With feet afire that could not tire,
atremble with the trust More mighty in my inner man than fear of men without, The word I heard
on Kara Dagh and did not dare to doubt - Timely warning, clear to me as starlight after rain
When, sleepless on eternal hills, I saw the purpose plain And left, swift-foot at dawn, obedient,
to break The news ye said was no avail--advice ye would not take!

Oh,--nights of tireless talking by the hearth of hidden fires-- On roofs, behind the trade-bales--among
oxen in the byres-- Out in rain between the godowns, where the splashing puddles warn Of tiptoeing
informers;  when I faced the freezing dawn With set price on my head, but still the set resolve
untamed, Not melted by the mockery, by no suspicion shamed, To hide by day in holes, abiding
dark and wind and rain That loosed me straining to the task ye ridiculed again!

Oh, weeks of empty waiting, while the enemy designed In detail how to loot the stuff ye would
not leave behind! Worse weeks of empty agony when, helpless and alone, I watched in hiding
for the crops from that seed I had sown;

For dust-clouds that should prove at last Armenia awake-- A nation up and coming!  I had labored
for your sake, I had hungered, I had suffered.  Ye had well rewarded then If ye had come, and
hanged me just to prove that ye were men!

But all the pride was promises, the criticism jeers; Ye had no heart for sacrifice, and I no
time for tears. I offered--nay, I gave!  I squandered body and breath and soul, I bared the
need, I showed the way, I preached a goodly goal, I urged you choose a leader, since your faith
in me was dim, I swore to serve the chief ye chose, and teach my lore to him, So he should
reap where I had sown.  And yet ye bade me wait-- And waited till, awake at last, ye bid me
lead too late!

And so, in place of ripe reward, Your cactus crown! And I, who urged "Get ready for the untoward"
Must drink the dregs of wrath I dirged! Ye bid me set time's finger back! And stage anew the
opened fight! I'll lead.  But slime of Dead Sea wrack Were sweeter on my lips this night!

The first thought that occurred to each of us four was that Kagig had probably lied, or that
he had merely voiced his private opinion, based on expectation. The glare in the distance seemed
too big and solid to be caused by burning houses, even supposing a whole village were in flames.
Yet there was not any other explanation we could offer.  A distant cloud of black smoke with
bulging red under-belly rolled away through the darkness like a tremendous mountain range.

We stood in silence trying to judge how far away the thing might be, Kagig standing alone with
his foot on the parapet, his goat-skin coat hanging like a hussar's dolman, and Monty pacing
up and down along the roof behind us all.  The gipsies seemed able to converse by nods and
nudges, with now and then one word whispered.  After a little while Maga whispered in Will's
ear, and he went below with her.  All the gipsies promptly followed.  Otherwise in the darkness
we might not have noticed where Will went.

"That proves she is no gipsy!" vowed Rustum Khan, standing between Fred and me.  "They, would
have trusted one of their own kind."

"They call her Maga Jhaere," said I.  "The attaman's name is Jhaere. Don't you suppose he's
her father?"

"If he were her father he would have no fear," the Rajput answered. "All gipsies are alike.
Their women will dance the nautch, and promise unchastity as if that were a little matter.
But when it comes to performance of promises the gitana* is true to the Rom.**  It is because
she is no gipsy that they follow her now to watch.  And it is because men say that Americans
are Mormons and polygamous, and very swift in the use of revolvers, that all follow instead
of one or two!"

-------------- * Gitana, gipsy young woman. ** Rom--Gipsy husband, or family man. --------------

"Go down then, and make sure they don't murder him!" commanded Monty, and Rustum Khan turned
to obey with rather ill grace.  He contrived to convey by his manner that he would do anything
for Monty, even to the extent of saving the life of a man he disliked.  At the moment when
he turned there came the sound of a troop of horses galloping toward us.

"I will first see who comes," he said.

"The blood of Yerkes sahib on your head, Rustum Khan!" Monty answered. At that he went below.

But neither were we destined to remain up there very long.  We heard colossal thumping in the
kahveh beneath us and presently the Rajput's head reappeared through the opening in the roof.

"The fools are barricading the door," he shouted.  "They make sure that an enemy outside could
burn us inside without hindrance!"

At that Kagig came along the roof to our corner and looked into Monty's eyes.  Fred and I stood
between the two of them and the parapet, because for the first few seconds we were not sure
the Armenian did not mean murder.  His eyes glittered, and his teeth gleamed.  It was not possible
to guess whether or not the hand under his goat-skin coat clutched a weapon.

"It is now that you Eenglis sportmen shall endure a test!" he remarked.

Exactly as in the Yeni Khan in Tarsus when we first met him there was a moment now of intense
repulsion, entirely unaccountable, succeeded instantly by a wave of sympathy.  I laughed aloud,
remembering how strange dogs meeting in the street to smell each other are swept by unexplainable
antipathies and equally swift comradeship.  He thought I laughed at him.

"Neye geldin?" he growled in Turkish.  "Wherefore didst thou come? To cackle like a barren
hen that sees another laying?  Nichevo," he added, turning his back on me.  And that was insolence
in Russian, meaning that nobody and nothing could possibly be of less importance. He seemed
to keep a separate language for each set of thoughts. "Let us go below.  Let us stop these
fools from making too much trouble," he added in English.  "One man ought to stay on the roof.
One ought to be sufficient."

Since he had said I did not matter, I remained, and it was therefore I who shouted down a challenge
presently in round English at a party who clattered to the door on blown horses, and thundered
on it as if they had been shatirs* hurrying to herald the arrival of the sultan himself.  There
was nothing furtive about their address to the decrepit door, nor anything meek.  Accordingly
I couched the challenge in terms of unmistakable affront, repeating it at intervals until the
leader of the new arrivals chose to identify himself.

----------------- * Shatir, the man who runs before a personage's horse. -----------------

"I am Hans von Quedlinburg!" he shouted.  But I did not remember the name.

"Only a thief would come riding in such a hurry through the night!" said I.  "Who is with you?"

Another voice shouted very fast and furiously in Turkish, but I could not make head or tail
of the words.  Then the German resumed the song and dance.

"Are you the party who talked with me at my construction camp?"

"We talk most of the time.  We eat food.  We whistle.  We drink. We laugh!" said I.

"Because I think you are the people I am seeking.  These are Turkish officials with me.  I
have authority to modify their orders, only let me in!"

"How many of you?" I asked.  I was leaning over at risk of my life, for any fool could have
seen my head to shoot at it against the luminous dark sky; but I could not see to count them.

"Never mind how many!  Let us in!  I am Hans von Quedlinburg.  My name is sufficient."

So I lied, emphatically and in thoughtful detail.

"You are covered," I said, "by five rifles from this roof.  If you don't believe it, try something.
You'd better wait there while I wake my chief."

"Only be quick!" said the German, and I saw him light a cigarette, whether to convince me he
felt confident or because he did feel so I could not say.  I went below, and found Monty and
Kagig standing together close to the outer door.  They had not heard the whole of the conversation
because of the noise the owner's sons had made removing, at their orders, the obstructions
they had piled against the door in their first panic.  Every one else had returned to the sleeping
platforms, except the Turkish owner, who looked awake at last, and was hovering here and there
in ecstasies of nervousness.

I repeated what the German had said, rather expecting that Kagig at any rate would counsel
defiance.  It was he, however, who beckoned the Turk and bade him open the door.

"But, effendi--"

"Chabuk! Quickly, I said!"

"Che arz kunam?" the Turk answered meekly, meaning "What petition shall I make?" the inference
being that all was in the hands of Allah.

"Of ten men nine are women!" sneered Kagig irritably, and led the way to our place beside the
fire.  The Turk fumbled interminably with the door fastenings, and we were comfortably settled
in our places before the new arrivals rode in, bringing a blast of cold air with them that
set the smoke billowing about the room and made every man draw up his blankets.

"Shut that door behind them!" thundered Kagig.  "If they come too slowly, shut the laggards out!"

"Who is this who is arrogant?" the German demanded in English.

He was a fine-looking man, dressed in civilian clothes cut as nearly to the military pattern
as the tailor could contrive without transgressing law, but with a too small fez perched on
his capable-looking head in the manner of the Prussian who would like to make the Turks believe
he loves them.  Rustum Khan cursed with keen attention to detail at sight of him.  The man
who had entered with him became busy in the shadows trying to find room to stall their horses,
but Von Quedlinburg gave his reins to an attendant, and stood alone, akimbo, with the firelight
displaying him in half relief.

"I am a man who knows, among other things, the name of him who bribed the kaimakam.* on Chakallu,"
Kagig answered slowly, also in English.

--------------- * Kaimakam, headman (Turkish). ---------------

The German laughed.

"Then you know without further argument that I am not to be denied!" he answered.  "What I
say to-night the government officials will confirm to-morrow!  Are you Kagig, whom they call
the Eye of Zeitoon?"

"I am no jackal," said Kagig dryly, punning on the name Chakallu, which means "place of jackals."

The German coughed, set one foot forward, and folded both arms on his breast.  He looked capable
and bold in that attitude, and knew it.  I knew at last who he was, and wondered why I had
not recognized him sooner--the contractor who had questioned us near the railway encampment
along the way, and had offered us directions; but his manner was as different now from then
as a bully's in and out of school.  Then he had sought to placate, and had almost cringed to
Monty.  Everything about him now proclaimed the ungloved upper hand.

His party, finding no room to stall their horses, had begun to turn ours loose, and there was
uproar along the gipsy side of the room--no action yet, but a threatening snarl that promised
plenty of it. Will was half on his feet to interfere, but Monty signed to him to keep cool;
and it was Monty's aggravatingly well-modulated voice that laid the law down.

"Will you be good enough," be asked blandly, "to call off your men from meddling with our mounts?"
He could not be properly said to drawl, because there was a positive subacid crispness in his
voice that not even a Prussian or a Turk on a dark night could have over-looked.

The German laughed again.

"Perhaps you did not hear my name," he said. "I am Hans von Quedlinburg. As over-contractor
on the Baghdad railway I have the privilege of prior accommodation at all road-houses in this
province--for myself and my attendants.  And in addition there are with me certain Turkish
officers, whose rights I dare say you will not dispute."

Monty did not laugh, although Fred was chuckling in confident enjoyment of the situation.

"You need a lesson in manners," said Monty.

"What do you mean?" demanded Hans von Quedlinburg.

Monty rose to his feet without a single unnecessary motion.

"I mean that unless you call off your men--at once this minute from interfering with our animals
I shall give you the lesson you need."

The German saluted in mock respect.  Then he patted his breast-pocket so as to show the outline
of a large repeating pistol.  Monty took two steps forward.  The German drew the pistol with
an oath.  Will Yerkes, beyond Fred and slightly behind the German, coughed meaningly. The German
turned his head, to find that he was covered by a pistol as large as his own.

"Oh, very well," he said, "what is the use of making a scene?"  He thrust his pistol back under
cover and shouted an order in Turkish. Monty returned to his place and sat down.  The newcomers
at the rear of the room tied their horses together by the bridles, and Hans von Quedlinburg
resumed his well-fed smile.

"Let it be clearly understood," he said, "that you have interfered with official privilege."

"As long as you do your best in the way of manners you may go on with your errand," said Monty.

Suddenly Fred laughed aloud.

"The martyred biped!" he yelped.

He was right.  Peter Measel, missionary on his own account, and sometime keeper of most libelous
accounts, stepped out from the shadows and essayed to warm himself, walking past the German
with a sort of mincing gait not calculated to assert his manliness.  Hans von Quedlinburg stretched
out a strong arm and hurled him back again into the darkness at the rear.

"Tchuk-tchuk!  Zuruck!" he muttered.

It clearly disconcerted him to have his inferiors in rank assert themselves.  That accounted,
no doubt, for the meek self-effacement of the Turks who had come with him.  Peter Measel did
not appear to mind being rebuked.  He crossed to the other side of the room, and proceeded
to look the gipsies over with the air of a learned ethnologist.

"You speak of my errand," said Hans von Quedlinburg, "as if you imagine I come seeking favors.
I am here incidentally to rescue you and your party from the clutches of an outlaw.  The Turkish
officials who are with me have authority to arrest everybody in this place, yourselves included.
Fortunately I am able to modify that.  Kagig --that rascal beside you--is a well-known agitator.
He is a criminal. His arrest and trial have been ordered on the charge, among other things,
of stirring up discontent among the Armenian laborers on the railway work.  These gipsies are
all his agents.  They are all under arrest.  You yourselves will be escorted to safety at the
coast."

"Why should we need an escort to safety?" Monty demanded.

"Were you on the roof?" the German answered.  "And is it possible you did not see the conflagration?
An Armenian insurrection has been nipped in the bud.  Several villages are burning.  The other
inhabitants are very much incensed, and all foreigners are in danger --yourselves especially,
since you have seen fit to travel in company with such a person as Kagig."

"What has Peter Measel got to do with it?" demanded Fred.  "Has he been writing down all our
sins in a new book?"

"He will identify you.  He will also identify Kagig's agents.  He brings a personal charge
against a man named Rustum Khan, who must return to Tarsus to answer it.  The charge is robbery
with violence."

Rustum Khan snorted.

"The violence was only too gentle, and too soon ended.  As for robbery, if I have robbed him
of a little self-conceit, I will answer to God for that when my hour shall come!  How is it
your affair to drag that whimpering fool through Asia at your tail--you a German and he English?"

The German had a hot answer ready for that, but the Turks had discovered Maga Jhaere in hiding
in the shadows between two old women.  She screamed as they tried to drag her forth, and the
scream brought us all to our feet.  But this time it was Kagig who was swiftest, and we got
our first proof of the man's enormous strength.  Fred, Will and I charged together round behind
the newcomers' horses, in order to make sure of cutting off retreat as well as rescuing Maga.
Monty leveled a pistol at the German's head.  But Kagig did not waste a fraction of a second
on side-issues of any sort.  He flew at the German's throat like a wolf at a bullock.  The
German fired at him, missed, and before he could fire again he was caught in a grip he could
not break, and fighting for breath, balance and something more.

One of the gipsies, who had not seen the need of hurrying to Maga's aid, now proved the soundness
of his judgment by divining Kagig's purpose and tossing several new faggots on the already
prodigious fire.

"Good!" barked Kagig, bending the struggling German this and that way as it pleased him.

Seeing our man with the upper hand, Monty and Rustum Khan now hurried into the melee, where
two Turkish officers and eight zaptieh were fighting to keep Maga from four gipsies and us
three.  Nobody had seen fit to shoot, but there was a glimmering of cold steel among the shadows
like lightning before a thunder-storm.  Monty used his fists.  Rustum Khan used the flat of
a Rajput saber.  Maga, leaving most of her clothing in the Turk's hands, struggled free and
in another second the Turks were on the defensive.  Rustum Khan knocked the revolver out of
an officer's hand, and the rest of them were struggling to use their rifles, when the German
shrieked.  All fights are full of pauses, when either side could snatch sudden victory if alert
enough.  We stopped, and turned to look, as if our own lives were not in danger.

Kagig had the German off his feet, face toward the flames, kicking and screaming like a madman.
He whirled him twice--shouted a sort of war-cry--hove him high with every sinew in his tough
frame cracking --and hurled him head-foremost into the fire.

The Turks took the cue to haul off and stand staring at us.  We all withdrew to easier pistol
range, for contrary to general belief, close quarters almost never help straight aim, especially
when in a hurry.  There is a shooting as well as a camera focus, and each man has his own.

Pretty badly burnt about the face and fingers, Hans von Quedlinburg crawled backward out of
the fire, smelling like the devil, of singed wool.  Kagig closed on him, and hurled him back
again.  This time the German plunged through the fire, and out beyond it to a space between
the flames and the back wall, where it must have been hot enough to make the fat run.  He stood
with a forearm covering his face, while Kagig thundered at him voluminous abuse in Turkish.
I wondered, first, why the German did not shoot, and then why his loaded pistol did not blow
up in the heat, until I saw that in further proof of strength Kagig had looted his pistol and
was standing with one foot on it.

Finally, when the beautiful smooth cloth of which his coat was made bad taken on a stinking
overlay of crackled black, the German chose to obey Kagig and came leaping back through the
fire, and lay groaning on the floor, where the kahveh's owner's seven sons poured water on
him by Kagig's order.  His burns were evidently painful, but not nearly so serious as I expected.
I got out the first-aid stuff from our medicine bag, and Will, who was our self-constituted
doctor on the strength of having once attended an autopsy, disguised as a reporter, in the
morgue at the back of Bellevue Hospital in New York City, beckoned a gipsy woman, and proceeded
to instruct her what to do.

However, Hans von Quedlinburg was no nervous weakling.  He snatched the pot of grease from
the woman's hands, daubed gobs of the stuff liberally on his face and hands, and sat up--resembling
an unknown kind of angry animal with his eyebrows and mustache burned off except for a stray,
outstanding whisker here and there.  In a voice like a bull's at the smell of blood he reversed
what he had shouted through the flames, and commanded his Turks to arrest the lot of us.

Kagig laughed at that, and spoke to him in English, I suppose in order that we, too, might
understand.

"Those Turks are my prisoners!" he said.  "And so are you!"

It was true about the Turks.  They had not given up their weapons yet, but the gipsies were
between them and the door, and even the gipsy women were armed to the teeth and willing to
do battle.  I caught sight of Maga's mother-o'-pearl plated revolver, and the Turkish officer
at whom she had it leveled did not look inclined to dispute the upper hand.

"You Germans are all alike," sneered Kagig.  "A dog could read your reasoning.  You thought
these foreigners would turn against me. It never entered your thick skull that they might rather
defy you than see me made prisoner.  Fool!  Did men name me Eye of Zeitoon for nothing?  Have
I watched for nothing!  Did I know the very wording of the letters in your private box for
nothing?  Are you the only spy in Asia?  Am I Kagig, and do I not know who advised dismissing
all Armenians from the railway work?  Am I Kagig, and do I not know why?  Kopek! (Dog!)  You
would beggar my people, in order to curry favor with the Turk.  You seek to take me because
I know your ways! Two months ago you knew to within a day or two when these new massacres would
begin.  One month, three weeks, and four days ago you ordered men to dig my grave, and swore
to bury me alive in it!  What shall hinder me from burning you alive this minute?"

There were five good hindrances, for I think that Rustum Khan would have objected to that cruelty,
even had he been alone.  Kagig caught Monty's eye and laughed.

"Korkakma!" he jeered.  "Do not be afraid!"  Then be glanced swiftly at the Turks, and at Peter
Measel, who was staring all-eyes at Maga on the far side of the room.

"Order your pigs of zaptieh to throw their arms down!"

Instead, the German shouted to them to fire volleys at us.  He was not without a certain stormy
courage, whatever Kagig's knowledge of his treachery.

But the Turks did not fire, and it was perfectly plain that we four were the reason of it.
They had been promised an easy prey--captured women--loot--and the remunerative task of escorting
us to safety. Doubtless Von Quedlinburg had promised them our consul would be lavish with rewards
on our account.  Therefore there was added reason why they should not fire on Englishmen and
an American.  We had not made a move since the first scuffle when we rescued Maga, but the
Turkish lieutenant had taken our measure.  Perhaps he had whispered to his men.  Perhaps they
reached their own conclusions.  The effect was the same in either case.

"Order them to throw their weapons down!" commanded Kagig, kicking the German in the ribs.
And his coat had been so scorched in the fierce heat that the whole of one side of it broke
off, like a cinder slab.

This time Hans von Quedlinburg obeyed.  For one thing the pain of his burns was beginning to
tell on him, but he could see, too, that he had lost prestige with his party.

"Throw down your weapons!" he ordered savagely.

But he had lost more prestige than he knew, or else he had less in the beginning than be counted
on.  The Turkish lieutenant--a man of about forty with the evidence of all the sensual appetites
very plainly marked on his face--laughed and brought his men to attention. Then he made a kind
of half-military motion with his hand toward each of us in turn, ignoring Kagig but intending
to convey that we at any rate need not feel anxious.

It was Maga Jhaere who solved the riddle of that impasse.  She was hardly in condition to appear
before a crowd of men, for the Turks bad torn off most of her clothes, and she had not troubled
to find others.  She was unashamed, and as beautiful and angry as a panther. With panther suddenness
she snatched the lieutenant's sword and pistol.

It suited neither his national pride nor religious prejudices to be disarmed by a gipsy woman;
but the Turk is an amazing fatalist, and unexpectedness is his peculiar quality.

"Che arz kunam?" he muttered--the perennial comment of the Turk who has failed, that always
made Kagig bare his teeth in a spasm of contempt. "Passing the buck to Allah," as Will construed
it.

But disarming the mere conscript soldiers was not quite so simple, although Maga managed it.
They had less regard for their own skins than handicapped their officer, and yet more than
his contempt for the female of any human breed.

They refused point-blank to throw their rifles down, bringing a laugh and a shout of encouragement
from the German.  But she screwed the muzzle of her pistol into the lieutenant's ear, and bade
him enforce her orders, the gipsy women applauding with a chorus of "Ohs" and "Ahs."  The lieutenant
succumbed to force majeure, and his men, who were inclined to die rather than take orders from
a woman, obeyed him readily enough.  They laid their rifles down carefully, without a suggestion
of resentment.

"So.  The women of Zeitoon are good!" said Kagig with a curt nod of approval, and Maga tossed
him a smile fit for the instigation of another siege of Troy.

The gipsy women picked the rifles up, and Maga went to hunt through the mule-packs for clothing.
Then Kagig turned on us, motioning with his toe toward Hans von Quedlinburg, who continued
to treat himself extravagantly from our jar of ointment.

"You do not know yet the depths of this man's infamy!" he said. "The world professes to loathe
Turks who rob, sell and murder women and children.  What of a German--a foreigner in Turkey,
who instigates the murder--and the robbery--and the burning--and the butchery--for his own
ends, or for his bloody country's ends?  This man is an instigator!"

"You lie!" snarled Von Quedlinburg.  "You dog of an Armenian, you lie!" Kagig ignored him.

"This is the German sportman who tried once to go to Zeitoon to shoot bears, as he said.  But
I knew he was a spy.  I am not the Eye of Zeitoon merely because that title rolls nicely on
the tongue.  He has--perhaps he has it in his pocket now--a concession from the politicians
in Stamboul, granting him the right to exploit Zeitoon --a place he has never seen!  He has
encouraged this present butchery in order that Turkish soldiers may have excuse to penetrate
to Zeitoon that he covets.  He wants you Eenglis sportmen out of the way.  You were to be sent
safely back to Tarsus, lest you should be witnesses of what must happen.  Perhaps you do not
believe all this?"'

He stooped down and searched the German's coat pockets with impatient fingers that tugged and
jerked, tossing out handkerchief and wallet, cigars, matches that by a miracle had not caught
in the heat, and considerable money to the floor.  He took no notice of the money, but one
of the old gipsy women crept out and annexed it, and Kagig made no comment.

"He has not his concession with him.  I can prove nothing to-night. I said you shall stand
a test.  You must choose.  This German and those Turks are my prisoners.  You have nothing
to do with it.  You may go back to Tarsus if you wish, and tell the Turks that Kagig defies
them!  You shall have an escort as far as the nearest garrison. You shall have fifty men to
take you back by dawn to-morrow."

At that Rustum Khan turned several shades darker and glared truculently.

"Who art thou, Armenian, to frame a test for thy betters?" he demanded, throwing a very military
chest.  And Will promptly bridled at the Rajput's attitude.

"You've no call to make yourself out any better than he is!" he interrupted.  And at that Maga
Jhaere threw a kiss from across the room, but one could not tell whether her own dislike of
Rustum Khan, or her approval of Will's support of Kagig was the motive.

Fred began humming in the ridiculous way he has when be thinks that an air of unconcern may
ease a situation, and of course Rustum Khan mistook the nasal noises for intentional insult.
He turned on the unsuspecting Fred like a tiger.  Monty's quick wit and level voice alone saved
open rupture.

"What I imagine Rustum Khan means is this, Kagig:  My friends and I have engaged you as guide
for a hunting trip.  We propose to hold you strictly to the contract."

Kagig looked keenly at each of us and nodded.

"In my day I have seen the hunters hunted!" he said darkly.

"In my day I have seen an upstart punished!" growled the Rajput, and sat down, back to the wall.

"Castles, and bears!" smiled Monty.

Kagig grinned.

"What if I propose a different quarry?"

"Propose and see!" Monty was on the alert, and therefore to all outward appearance in a sort
of well-fed, catlike, dallying mood.

"This dog," said Kagig, and he kicked the German's ribs again, "has said nothing of any other
person he must rescue.  Bear me witness."

We murmured admission of the truth of that.

"Yet I am the Eye of Zeitoon, and I know.  His purpose was to leave his prisoners here and
hurry on to overtake a lady--a certain Miss Vanderman, who he thinks is on her way to the mission
at Marash. He desired the credit for her rescue in order better to blind the world to his misdeeds!
Nevertheless, now that she can be no more use to him, observe his chivalry!  He does not even
mention her!"

The German shrugged his shoulders, implying that to argue with such a savage was waste of breath.

"What do you know of Miss Vanderman's where-abouts?" demanded Will, and Maga Jhaere, at the
sound of another woman's name, sat bolt upright between two other women whose bright eyes peeped
out from under blankets.

"I had word of her an hour before you came, effendi," Kagig answered. "She and her party took
fright this afternoon, and have taken to the hills.  They are farther ahead than this pig dreamed"--once
more he kicked Von Quedlinburg--"more than a day's march ahead from here."

"Then we'll hunt for her first," said Monty, and the rest of us nodded assent.

Kagig grinned.

"You shall find her.  You shall see a castle.  In the castle where you find her you shall choose
again!  It is agreed, effendi!"

Then he ordered his prisoners made fast, and the gipsies and our Zeitoonli servants attended
to it, he himself, however, binding the German's hands and feet.  Will went and put bandages
on the man's burns, I standing by, to help.  But we got no thanks.

"Ihr seit verruckt!" he sneered.  "You take the side of bandits. Passt mal auf--there will
be punishment!"

The Zeitoonli were going to tie Peter Measel, but he set up such a howl that Kagig at last
took notice of him and ordered him flung, unbound, into the great wooden bin in which the horse-feed
was kept for sale to wayfarers.  There he lay, and slept and snored for the rest of that session,
with his mouth close to a mouse-hole.

Then Kagig ordered our Zeitoonli to the roof on guard, and bade us sleep with a patriarchal
air of authority.

"There is no knowing when I shall decide to march," be explained.

Given enough fatigue, and warmth, and quietness, a man will sleep under almost any set of circumstances.
The great fire blazed, and flickered, and finally died down to a bed of crimson.  The prisoners
were most likely all awake, for their bonds were tight, but only Kagig remained seated in the
midst of his mess of blankets by the hearth;  and I think he slept in that position, and that
I was the last to doze off.  But none of us slept very long.

There came a shout from the roof again, and once again a thundering on the door.  The move--unanimous--that
the gipsies' right hands made to clutch their weapons resembled the jump from surprise into
stillness when the jungle is caught unawares.  A second later when somebody tossed dry fagots
on the fire the blaze betrayed no other expression on their faces than the stock-in-trade stolidity.
Even the women looked as if thundering on a kahveh door at night was nothing to be noticed.
Kagig did not move, but I could see that he was breathing faster than the normal, and he, too,
clutched a weapon.  Von Quedlinburg began shouting for help alternately in Turkish and in German,
and the owner of the place produced a gun--a long, bright, steel-barreled affair of the vintage
of the Comitajes and the First Greek War. He and his sons ran to the door to barricade it.

"Yavash!" ordered Kagig.  The word means slowly, as applied to all the human processes.  In
that instance it meant "Go slow with your noise!" and mine host so understood it.

But the thundering on the great door never ceased, and the kahveh was too full of the noise
of that for us to hear what the Zeitoonli called down from the roof.  Kagig arose and stood
in the middle of the room with the firelight behind him.  He listened for two minutes, standing
stock-still, a thin smile flickering across his lean face, and the sharp satyr-like tops of
his ears seeming to prick outward in the act of intelligence.

"Open and let them in!" he commanded at last.

"I will not!" roared the owner of the place.  "I shall be tortured, and all my house!"

"Open, I said!"

"But they will make us prisoner!"

Kagig made a sign with his right hand.  Gregor Jhaere rose and whispered. One by one the remaining
gipsies followed him into the shadows, and there came a noise of scuffling, and of oaths and
blows.  As Gregor Jhaere had mentioned earlier, they did obey Kagig now and then. The Turks
came back looking crestfallen, and the fastenings creaked. Then the door burst open with a
blast of icy air, and there poured in nineteen armed men who blinked at the firelight helplessly.

"Kagig--where is Kagig?"

"You cursed fools, where should I be!"

"Kagig?  Is it truly you?"  Their eyes were still blinded by the blaze.

"Shut that door again, and bolt it!  Aye--Kagig, Kagig, is it you!"

"It is Kagig!  Behold him!  Look!"

They clustered close to see, smelling infernally of sweaty garments and of the mud from unholy
lurking places.

"Kagig it is!  And has all happened as I, Kagig, warned you it would happen?"

"Aye.  All.  More.  Worse!"

"Had you acted beforehand in the manner I advised?"

"No, Kagig.  We put it off.  We talked, and disagreed.  And then it was too late to agree.
They were cutting throats while we still argued.  When we ran into the street to take the offensive
they were already shooting from the roofs!"

"Hah!"

That bitter dry expletive, coughed out between set teeth, could not be named a laugh.

"Kagig, listen!"

"Aye!  Now it is 'Kagig, listen!'  But a little while ago it was I who was sayin 'Listen!'
I walked myself lame, and talked myself hoarse.  Who listened to me?  Why should I listen to you?"

"But, Kagig, my wife is gone!"

"Hah!"

"My daughter, Kagig!"

"Hah!'

A third man thrust himself forward and thumped the butt of a long
rifle on the floor.
      --
"They took my wife and two daughters before my very eyes, Kagig!
It is no time for talking now--you have talked already too much,
Kagi,--now prove yourself a man of deeds!  With these eyes I saw
them dragged by the hair down street!  Oh, would God that I had put
my eyes out first, then had I never seen it!  Kagig--"

"Aye--Kagig!"

"You shall not sneer at me!  I shot one Turk, and ten more pounced on them.  They screamed
to me.  They called to me to rescue.  What could I do?  I shot, and I shot until the rifle
barrel burned my fingers.  Then those cursed Turks set the house on fire behind me, and my
companions dragged me away to come and find others to unite with us and make a stand!  We found
no others!  Kagig--I tell you --those bloody Turks are auctioning our wives and daughters in
the village church!  It is time to act!"

"Hah!  Who was it urged you in season and out of season--day and night--month in, month out--to
come to Zeitoon and help me fortify the place?  Who urged you to send your women there long ago?"

"But Kagig, you do not appreciate.  To you it is nothing not to have women near you.  We have
mothers, sisters, wives--"

"Nothing to me, is it?  These eyes have seen my mother, ravished by a Kurd in a Turkish uniform!"

"Well, that only proves you are one with us after all!  That only proves--"

"One with you!  Why did you not act, then, when I risked life and limb a thousand times to
urge you?"

"We could not, Kagig.  That would have precipitated--"

He interrupted the man with an oath like the aggregate of bitterness.

"Precipitated?  Did waiting for the massacre like chickens waiting for the ax delay the massacres
a day?  But now it is 'Come and lead us, Kagig!'  How many of you are there left to lead?"

"Who knows?  We are nineteen--"

"Hah!  And I am to run with nineteen men to the rape of Tarsus and Adana?"

"Our people will rally to you, Kagig!"

"They shall."

"Come, then!"

"They shall rally at Zeitoon!"

"Oh, Kagig--how shall they reich Zeitoon? The cursed Turks have ordered out the soldiers and
are sending regiments--"

"I warned they would!"

"The cavalry are hunting down fugitives along the roads!"

"As I foretold a hundred times!"

"They were sent to protect Armenians--"

"That is always the excuse!"

"And they kill--kill--kill!  A dozen of them hunted me for two miles, until I hid in a watercourse!
Look at us!  Look at our clothes! We are wet to the skin--tired--starving!  Kagig, be a man!"

He went back to his mess of blankets and sat down on it, too bitter at heart for words.  They
reproached him in chorus, coming nearer to the fire to let the fierce heat draw the stink out
of their clothes.

"Aye, Kagig, you must not forget your race.  You must not forget the past, Kagig.  Once Armenia
was great, remember that!  You must not only talk to us, you must act at last!  We summon you
to be our leader, Kagig, son of Kagig of Zeitoon!"

He stared back at them with burning eyes -raised both bands to beat his temples--and then suddenly
turned the palms of his hands toward the roof in a gesture of utter misery.

"Oh, my people!"

That glimpse he betrayed of his agony was but a moment long.  The fingers closed suddenly,
and the palms that had risen in helplessness descended to his knees clenched fists, heavy with
the weight of purpose.

"What have you done with the ammunition?" he demanded.

"We had it in the manure under John Zimisces' cattle."

"I know that.  Where is it now?"

"The Turks discovered it at dawn to-day.  Some one had told.  They burned Zimisces and his
wife and sons alive in the straw!"

"You fools!  They knew where the stuff was a week ago!  A month ago I warned you to send it
to Zeitoon, but somebody told you I was treacherous, and you fools listened!  How much ammunition
have you left now?"

"Just what we have with us.  I have a dozen rounds."

"I ten."

"I nine."

"I thirty-three."

Each man had a handful, or two handfuls at the most.  Kagig observed their contributions to
the common fund with scoRN too deep for expression. It was as if the very springs of speech
were frozen.

"We summon you to lead us, Kagig!"

Words came to him again.

"You summon me to lead?  I will!  From now I lead!  By the God who gave my fathers bread among
the mountains, I will, moreover, be obeyed! Either my word is law--"

"Kagig, it is law!"

"Or back you shall go to where the Turks are wearing white, and the gutters bubble red, and
the beams are black against the sky!  You shall obey me in future on the instant that I speak,
or run back to the Turks for mercy from my hand!  I have listened to enough talk!"

"Spoken like a man!" said Monty, and stood up.

We all stood up;  even Rustum Khan, who did not pretend to like him, saluted the old warrior
who could announce his purpose so magnificently. Maga Jhaere stood up, and sought Will's eyes
from across the room. Fred, almost too sleepy to know what he was doing (for the tail end of
the fever is a yearning for early bed) undid the catch of his beloved instrument, and made
the rafters ring.  In a minute we four were singing "For he's a jolly good fellow," and Kagig
stood up, looking like Robinson Crusoe in his goat-skins, to acknowledge the compliment.

The noise awoke Peter Measel, and when we had finished making fools of ourselves I walked over
to discover what he was saying.  He was praying aloud--nasally--through the mouse-hole--for
us, not himself. I looked at my watch.  It was two hours past midnight.

"You fellows," I said, "it's Sunday.  The martyred biped has just waked up and remembered it.
He is praying that we may be forgiven for polluting the Sabbath stillness with immoral tunes!"

My words had a strange effect.  Monty, and Fred, and Will laughed. Rustum Khan laughed savagely.
But all the Armenians, including Kagig, knelt promptly on the floor and prayed, the gipsies
looking on in mild amusement tempered by discretion.  And out of the mouse-hole in the horse-feed
bin came Peter Measel's sonorous, overriding periods:

"And, O Lord, let them not be smitten by Thine anger.  Let them not be cut down in Thy wrath!
Let them not be cast into hell!  Give them another chance, O Lord!  Let the Ten Commandments
be written on their hearts in letters of fire, but let not their souls be damned for ever more!
If they did not know it was the Sabbath Day, O Lord, forgive them! Amen!"

It was a most amazing night.

Chapter Seven
 "We hold you to your word!"

LIBERA NOS, DOMINE!

A priest, a statesman, and a soldier stood Hand in each other's hand, by ruin faced, Consulting
to find succor if they could, Till soon the lesser ones themselves abased, Their sword and
parchment on an altar laid In deep humility the while the priest he prayed.

He prayed first for his church, that it might be Upholden and acknowledged and revered, And
in its opal twilight men might see Salvation if in truth enough they feared, And if enough
acknowledgment they gave To ritual, and rosary, and creed that save.

Then prayed he for the state, that it should wean Well-tutored counselors to do their part
Full profit and prosperity to glean With dignity, although with contrite heart And wisdom that
Tradition wisdom ranks, That church and state might stand and men give thanks.

Last prayed he for the soldier--longest, too, That all the honor and the aims of war Subserving
him might carry wrath and rue Unto repentance, and in trembling awe The enemy at length should
fault confess And yield, to crave a peace of righteousness.

Behind them stood a patriot unbowed, Not arrogant in gilt or goodly cloth, Nor mincing meek,
and yet not poorly proud; With eyes afire that glittered not with wrath; Aware of evil hours,
and undismayed Because he loved too well.  He also prayed.

"Oh, Thou, who gavest, may I also give, Withholding not--accepting no reward; For I die gladly
if the least ones live. Twice righteous and two-edged be the sword, 'Neath freedom's banner
drawn to prove Thy word And smite me if I'm false!"  His prayer was heard.

The remainder of that night was nightmare pure and simple--mules and horses squealing in instinctive
fear of action they felt impending --gipsies and Armenians dragging packs out on the floor,
to repack everything a dozen times for some utterly godless reason--Rustum Khan seizing each
fugitive Armenian in turn to question him, alternating fierce threats with persuasion--Kagig
striding up and down with hands behind him and his scraggly black beard pressed down on his
chest --and the great fire blazing with reports like cannon shots as one of the Turk's sons
piled on fuel and the resinous wet wood caught.

The Turk and his other six sons ran away and hid themselves as a precaution against our taking
vengeance on them.  With situations reversed a Turk would have taken unbelievable toll in blood
and agony from any Armenian he could find, and they reasoned we were probably no better than
themselves.  The marvel was that they left one son to wait on us, and take the money for room
and horse-feed.

"Remember!" warned Monty, as we four sidled close together with our backs against the wall.
"Until we're in actual personal danger this trouble is the affair of Kagig and his men!"

"I get you.  If we horn in before we have to we'll do more harm than good.  Give the Turks
an excuse to call us outlaws and shoot instead of rescue us.  Sure.  But what about Miss Vanderman?"
said Will.

"I foresee she's doomed!" Fred stared straight in front of him. "It looks as if we'll lose
our little Willy too!  One woman at a time, especially when the lady totes a mother-o'-pearl
revolver and about a dozen knives! If you come out of this alive, Bill, you'll be wiser!"

"Fond of bull, aren't you!  You'd jest on an ant-heap."

"There's nothing to discuss," said I.  "If there's a lady in danger somewhere ahead, we all
know what we're going to do about it."

Monty nodded.

"If we can find her and get word to the consul, that 'ud be one more lever for him to pull on."

"D'you suppose they'd dare molest an Englishwoman?" I asked, with the sudden goose-flesh rising
all over me.

"She's American," said Will between purposely set lips.  But I did not see that that qualified
the unpleasantness by much.

One of the Armenians, whom Rustum Khan had finished questioning, went and stood in Kagig's
way, intercepting his everlasting sentry-go.

"What is it, Eflaton?"

"My wife, Kagig!"

"Ah!  I remember your wife.  She fed me often."

"You must come with me and find her, Kagig--my wife and two daughters, who fed you often!"

"The daughters were pretty," said Kagig.  "So was the wife.  A young woman yet.  A brave, good
woman.  Always she agreed with me, I remember. Often I heard her urge you men to follow me
to Zeitoon and help to fortify the place!"

"Will you leave a good woman in the hands of Turks, Kagig?  Come--come to the rescue!"

"It is too bad," said Kagig simply.  "Such women suffer more terribly than the hags who merely
die by the sword.  Ten times by the count --during ten succeeding massacres I have seen the
Turks sell Armenian wives and daughters at auction.  I am sorry, Eflaton."

"My God!" groaned Will.  "How long are we four loafers going to sit here and leave a white
woman in danger on the road ahead?"  He got up and began folding his blankets.

The Armenian whom Kagig had called Eflaton threw himself to the floor and shrieked in agony
of misery.  Rustum Khan stepped over him and came and stood in front of Monty.

"These men are fools," he said.  "They know exactly what the Turks will do.  They have all
seen massacres before.  Yet not one of them was ready when the hour set for this one came.
They say--and they say the truth, that the Turks will murder all Europeans they catch outside
the mission stations, lest there be true witnesses afterward whom the world will believe."

"But a woman--scarcely a white woman?"  This from Will, with the tips of his ears red and the
rest of his face a deathly white.

"Depending on the woman," answered Rustum Khan.  "Old--unpleasing--" He made an upward gesture
with his thumb, and a noise between his teeth suggestive of a severed wind-pipe.  "If she were
good-looking --I have heard say they pay high prices in the interior, say at Kaisarieh or Mosul.
Once in a harem, who would ever know?  The road ahead is worse than dangerous.  Whoever wishes
to save his life would do best to turn back now and try to ride through to Tarsus."

"Try it, then, if you're afraid!" sneered Will, and for a moment I thought the Rajput would
draw steel.

"I know what this lord sahib and I will do," he said, darkening three or four shades under
his black beard.  "It was for men bewitched by gipsy-women that I feared!"

Will was standing.  Nothing but Monty's voice prevented blows.  He rapped out a string of sudden
rhetoric in the Rajput's own guttural tongue, and Rustum Khan drew back four paces.

"Send him back, Colonel sahib!" he urged.  "Send that one back! He and Umm Kulsum will be the
death of us!"

Fred went off into a peal of laughter that did nothing to calm the Rajput's ruffled temper.

"Who was Umm Kulsum?" I asked him, divining the cause.

"The most immoral hag in Asian legend!  The aggregated essence of all female evil personified
in one procuress!"

"Say, I'll have to teach that gink--"

Monty got up and stood between them, but it was a new alarm that prevented blows.  A fist-blow
in the Rajput's face would have meant a blood-feud that nothing less than a man's life could
settle, and Monty looked worried.  There came a new thundering on the door that brought everybody
to his feet as if murder were the least of the charges against us.  Only Kagig appeared at
ease and unconcerned.

"Open to them!" he shouted, and resumed his pacing to and fro.

Our Armenian servants ran to the door, and in a minute returned to say that fifty mounted men
from Zeitoon were drawn up outside.  Kagig gave a curt laugh and strode across to us.

"I said you Eenglis sportmen should see good sport."

Monty nodded, with a hand held out behind him to warn us to keep still.

"I said you shall shoot many pigs!"

"Lead on, then."

"Turks are pigs!"

Monty dd not answer.  To have disagreed would have been like flapping a red cloth at a tiger.
Yet to have agreed with him at once might have made him jump to false conclusions.  The consul's
last words to us had been insistent on the unwisdom of posing as anything but hunters, legitimately
entitled to protection from the Turkish government.

"I would like you gentlemen for allies!"

"You are our servant at present."

"Would you think of holding me to that?" demanded Kagig with a gesture of extreme irritation.
It is only the West that can joke at itself in the face of crisis.

"If not to that," said Monty blandly, "then what agreements do you keep?"

Kagig saw the point. He drew a deep impatient breath and drove it out again hissing through
his teeth.  Then he took grim hold of himself.

"Effendi," he said, addressing himself to Monty, but including all of us with eyes that seemed
to search our hearts, "you are a lord, a friend of the King of Eengland.  If I were less than
a man of my word I could make you prisoner and oblige your friend the King of Eengland to squeeze
these cursed Turks!"

Rustum Khan heard what he said, and made noise enough drawing his saber to be heard outside
the kahveh, but Kagig did not turn his head.  Three gipsies attended to Rustum Khan, slipping
between him and their master, and our four Zeitoonli servants cautiously approached the Rajput
from behind.

"Peace!" ordered Monty.  "Continue, Kagig."

Kagig held both hands toward Monty, palms upward, as if he were offering the keys of Hell and
Heaven.

"You are sportmen, all of you.  Shall I keep my word to you?  Or shall I serve my nation in
its agony?"

Monty glanced swiftly at us, but we made no sign.  Will actually looked away.  It was a rule
we four had to leave the playing of a hand to whichever member of the partnership was first
engaged;  and we never regretted it, although it often called for faith in one another to the
thirty-third degree.  The next hand might fall to any other of us, but for the present it was
Monty's play.

"We hold you to your word!" said Monty.

Kagig gasped.  "But my people!"

"Keep your word to them too!  Surely you haven't promised them to make us prisoner?"

"But if I am your servant--if I must obey you for two piasters a day, how shall I serve my nation?"

"Wait and see!" suggested Monty blandly.

Kagig bowed stiffly, from the neck.

"It would surprise you, effendi," he said grimly, "to know how many long years I have waited,
in order that I may see what other men will do!"

Monty never answered that remark.  There came a yell of "Fire!" and in less than ten seconds
flames began to burst through the door that shut off the Turks' private quarters, and to lick
and roar among the roof beams.  The animals at the other end of the room went crazy, and there
was instant panic, the Armenians outside trying to get in to help, and fighting with the men
and animals and women and children who choked the way.  Then the hay in the upper story caught
alight, and the heat below became intolerable.  Monty saw and instantly pounced on an ax and
two crow-bars in the corner.

"Through the wall!" he ordered.

Fred, Will and I did that work, he and Kagig looking on.  It was much easier than at first
seemed likely.  Most of the stones were stuck with mud, not plaster, and when the first three
or four were out the rest came easily.  In almost no time we had a great gap ready, and the
extra draft we made increased the holocaust, but seemed to lift the heat higher.  Then some
of the Zeitoonli saw the gap, and began to hurry blindfolded horses through it and in a very
little while the place seemed empty.  I saw the Turkish owner and several of his sons looking
on in fatalistic calm at about the outside edge of the ring of light, and it occurred to me
to ask a question.

"Hasn't that Turk a harem?" I asked.

In another second we four were hurrying around the building, and Will and I burst in the door
at the rear with our crow-bars.  Monty and Fred rushed past us, and before I could get the
smoke out of my eyes and throat they were hurrying out again with two old women in their arms--the
women screaming, and they laughing and coughing so that they could hardly run.  Then Will made
my blood run cold with a new alarm.

"The biped!" he shouted.  "The Measel in the corn-bin!"

They dropped the old ladies, and all four of us raced back to our hole in the wall--plunged
into the hell-hot building, pulled the lid off the corn-bin (it was fastened like an ancient
Egyptian coffin-lid with several stout Wooden pegs), dragged Measel out, and frog-marched him,
kicking and yelling, to the open, where Fred collapsed.

"Measel," said Will, stooping to feel Fred's heart, "if you're the cause of my friend Oakes'
death, Lord pity you!"

Fred sat up, not that he wished to save the "biped" any anguish, but the wise man vomits comfortably
when he can, the necessity being bad enough without additional torment.

"See!" said a voice out of darkness.  "He empties himself!  That is well.  It is only the end
of the fever.  Now he will be a man again.  But the sahibs should have left that writer of
characters in the corn-bin, where he could have shared the fate of his master without troubling
us again!"

Rustum Khan strode into the light, with half his fierce beard burned away from having been
the last to leave by the front entrance, and a decided limp from having been kicked by a frantic
mule.

"What have you done with the German?" demanded Monty.

"I, sahib?  Nothing.  In truth nothing.  It was the seven sons of the Turk--abetted I should
say by gipsies.  It was the German who set the place alight.  The girl, Maga Jhaere they call
her, saw him do it.  She watched like a cat, the fool, hoping to amuse herself, while he burned
off his ropes with a brand that fell his way out of the fire.  When another brand jumped half
across the room he set the place alight with it, tossing it over the party wall.  He was an
able rascal, sahib."

"Was?" demanded Monty.

"Aye, sahib, was!  In another second he released the Turkish lieutenant and shouted in his
ear to escape and say that Armenians burned this kahveh!  Gregor Jhaere slew the Turk, however.
And Maga followed the German into the open, where she denounced him to some of the Zeitoonli
who recently arrived.  They took him and threw him back into the fire--where he remained. 
I begin to like these Zeitoonli. I even like the gipsies more than formerly.  They are men
of some discernment, and of action!"

"Man of blood!" growled Monty.  "What of the Turkish owner and his seven sons?"

"They shall burn, too, if the sahib say so!"

"If they burn, so shall you!  Where is Kagig?"

"Seeing that the sahibs' horses are packed and saddled.  I came to find the sahibs.  According
to Kagig it is time to go, before Turks come to take vengeance for a burned road-house.  They
will surely say Armenians burned it, whether or not there is a German to support their accusation!"

Then we heard Kagig's high-pitched "Haide--chabuk!" and picked up Peter Measel, and ran around
the building to where the horses were already saddled, and squealing in fear of the flames.
We left the Turk, and his wives and seven sons, to tell what tale they pleased.

Chapter Eight "I go with that man!"

LO HERE!  LO THERE!

Ye shall not judge men by the drinks they take, Nor by unthinking oath, nor what they wear,
For look! the mitered liars protest make And drinking know they lie, and knowing swear. No
oath is round without the rounded fruit, Nor pompous promise hides the ultimate. In scarlet
as in overalls and tailored suit To-morrows truemen and the traitors wait Untold by trick of
blazonry or voice. But harvest ripens and there come the reaping days When each shall choose
one path to bide the choice, And ye shall know men when they face dividing ways.

To those who have never ridden knee to knee with outlaws full pelt into unknown darkness, with
a burning house behind, and a whole horizon lit with the rolling glow of murdered villages,
let it be written that the sensation of so doing is creepy, most amazing wild, and not without
unrighteous pleasure.

There was a fierce joy that burned without consuming, and a consciousness of having crossed
a rubicon.  Points of view are left behind in a moment, although the proof may not be apparent
for days or weeks, and I reckon our mental change from being merely hunters of an ancient castle
and big game-tourists-trippers, from that hour.  As we galloped behind Kagig the mesmerism
of respect for custom blew away in the wind.  We became at heart outlaws as we rode--and one
of us a privy councilor of England!

The women, Maga included, were on in front.  The night around and behind us was full of the
thunder of fleeing cattle, for the Zeitoonli had looted the owner of the kahveh's cows and
oxen along with their own beasts and were driving them helter-skelter.  The crackling flames
behind us were a beacon, whistling white in the early wind, that we did well to hurry from.

It was Monty who called Kagig's attention to the idiocy of tiring out the cattle before dawn,
and then Kagig rode like an arrow until he could make the gipsies hear him.  One long keening
shout that penetrated through the drum of hoofs brought them to a walk, but they kept Maga
in front with them, screened from our view until morning by a close line of mounted women and
a group of men.  The Turkish prisoners were all behind among the fifty Armenians from Zeitoon,
looking very comfortless trussed up on the mounts that nobody else had coveted, with hands
made fast behind their backs.

A little before dawn, when the saw-tooth tips of the mountain range on our left were first
touched with opal and gold, we turned off the araba track along which we had so far come and
entered a ravine leading toward Marash.  Fred was asleep on horseback, supported between Will
and me and snoring like a throttled dog.  The smoke of the gutted kahveh had dwindled to a
wisp in the distance behind us, and there was no sight or sound of pursuit.

No wheeled vehicle that ever man made could have passed up this new track.  It was difficult
for ridden horses, and our loaded beasts had to be given time.  We seemed to be entering by
a fissure into the womb of the savage hills that tossed themselves in ever-increasing grandeur
up toward the mist-draped heights of Kara Dagh.  Oftener than not our track was obviously watercourse,
although now and then we breasted higher levels from which we could see, through gaps between
hill and forest, backward along the way we had come.  There was smoke from the direction of
Adana that smudged a whole sky-line, and between that and the sea about a dozen sooty columns
mushroomed against the clouds.

There was not a mile of the way we came that did not hold a hundred hiding-places fit for ambuscade,
but our party was too numerous and well-armed to need worry on that account.  Monty and Kagig
drew ahead, quite a little way behind the gipsies still, but far in front of us, who had to
keep Fred upright on his horse.

"My particular need is breakfast," said I.

"And Will's is the woman!" said Fred, admitting himself awake at last. Will had been straining
in the stirrups on the top of every rise his horse negotiated ever since the sun rose.  It
certainly was a mystery why Maga should have been spirited away, after the freedom permitted
her the day before.

"Rustum Khan has probably made off with her, or cut her head off!" remarked Fred by way of
offering comfort, yawning with the conscious luxury of having slept.  "I don't see Rustum Khan.
Let's hope it's true!  That 'ud give the American lady a better chance for her life in case
we should overtake her!"

Will and Fred have always chosen the most awkward places and the least excuse for horseplay,
and the sleep seemed to have expelled the last of the fever from Fred's bones, so that he felt
like a schoolboy on holiday.  Will grabbed him around the neck and they wrestled, to their
horses' infinite disgust, panting and straining mightily in the effort to unseat each other.
It was natural that Will should have the best of it, he being about fifteen years younger as
well as unweakened by malaria.  The men of Zeitoon behind us checked to watch Fred rolled out
of his saddle, and roared with the delight of fighting men the wide world over to see the older
campaigner suddenly recover his balance and turn the tables on the younger by a trick.

And at that very second, as Will landed feet first on the gravel panting for breath, Maga Jhaere
arrived full gallop from the rear, managing her ugly gray stallion with consummate ease.  Her
black hair streamed out in the wind, and what with the dew on it and the slanting sun-rays
she seemed to be wearing all the gorgeous jewels out of Ali Baba's cave.  She was the loveliest
thing to look at --unaffected, unexpected, and as untamed as the dawn, with parted lips as
red as the branch of budding leaves with which she beat her horse.

But the smile turned to a frown of sudden passion as she saw Will land on the ground and Fred
get ready for reprisals.  She screamed defiance--burst through the ranks of the nearest Zeitoonli--set
her stallion straight at us--burst between Fred and me--beat Fred savagely across the face
with her sap-softened branch--and wheeled on her beast's haunches to make much of Will.  He
laughed at her, and tried to take the whip away.  Seeing he was neither hurt nor indignant,
she laughed at Fred, spat at him, and whipped her stallion forward in pursuit of Kagig, breaking
between him and Monty to pour news in his ear.

"A curse on Rustum Khan!" laughed Fred, spitting out red buds.  "He didn't do his duty!"

He had hardly said that when the Rajput came spurring and thundering along from the rear. 
He seemed in no hurry to follow farther, but drew rein between us and saluted with the semi-military
gesture with which he favored all who, unlike Monty, had not been Colonels of Indian regiments.

"I tracked Umm Kulsum through the dark!" he announced, rubbing the burned nodules out of his
singed beard and then patting his mare's neck.  "I saw her ride away alone an hour before you
reached that fork in the road and turned up this watercourse.  'By the teeth of God,' said
I, 'when a good-looking woman leaves a party of men to canter alone in the dark, there is treason!'
and I followed."

I offered the Rajput my cigarette case, and to my surprise he accepted one, although not without
visible compunction.  As a Muhammadan by creed he was in theory without caste and not to be
defiled by European touch, but the practises of most folk fall behind their professions. A
hundred yards ahead of us Maga was talking and gesticulating furiously, evidently railing at
Kagig's wooden-headedness or unbelief.  Monty sat listening, saying nothing.

"What did you see, Rustum Khan?" asked Fred.

"At first very little.  My eyes are good, but that gipsy-woman's are better, and I was kept
busy following her;  for I could not keep close, or she might have heard.  The noise of her
own clumsy stallion prevented her from hearing the lighter footfalls of my mare, and by that
I made sure she was not expecting to meet an enemy.  'She rides to betray us to her friends!'
said I, and I kept yet farther behind her, on the alert against ambush."

"Well?"

"She rode until dawn, I following.  Then, when the light was scarcely born as yet, she suddenly
drew rein at an open place where the track she had been following emerged out of dense bushes,
and dismounted. >From behind the bushes I watched, and presently I, too, dismounted to hold
my mare's nostrils and prevent her from whinnying.  That woman, Maga Jhaere, knelt, and pawed
about the ground like a dog that hunts a buried bone!"

In front of us Maga was still arguing. Suddenly Kagig turned on her and asked her three swift
questions, bitten off like the snap of a closing snuff-box lid.  Whether she answered or not
I could not see, but Monty was smiling.

"I suspect she was making signals!" growled Rustum Khan.  "To whom --about what I do not know.
After a little while she mounted and rode on, choosing unerringly a new track through the bushes.
I went to where she had been, and examined the ground where she had made her signals.  As I
say, my eyes are good, but hers are better.  I could see nothing but the hoof-marks of her
clumsy gray brute of a stallion, and in one place the depressions on soft earth where she had
knelt to paw the ground!"

Monty was beginning to talk now.  I could see him smiling at Kagig over Maga's head, and the
girl was growing angry.  Rustum Khan was watching them as closely as we were, pausing between
sentences.

"It may be she buried something there, but if so I did not find it. I could not stay long,
for when she rode away she went like wind, and I needed to follow at top speed or else be lost.
So I let my mare feel the spurs a time or two, and so it happened that I gained on the woman;
and I suppose she heard me.  Whether or no, she waited in ambush, and sprang out at me as I
passed so suddenly that I know not what god of fools and drunkards preserved her from being
cut down!  Not many have ridden out at me from ambush and lived to tell of it!  But I saw who
she was in time, and sheathed my steel again, and cursed her for the gipsy that she half is.
The other half is spawn of Eblis!"

A hundred yards ahead of us Kagig had reached a decision, but it seemed to be not too late
yet in Maga's judgment to try to convert him.  She was speaking vehemently, passionately, throwing
down her reins to expostulate with both hands.

"Kagig isn't the man you'd think a young woman would choose to be familiar with," Fred said
quietly to me, and I wondered what he was driving at.  He is always observant behind that superficial
air of mockery he chooses to assume, but what he had noticed to set him thinking I could not guess.

Rustum Khan threw away the cigarette I had given him, and went on with his tale.

"That woman has no virtue."

"How do you know?" demanded Will.

"She laughed when I cursed her!  Then she asked me what I had seen."

"What did you say?"

"To test her I said I had seen her lover, and would know him again by his smell in the dark!"

"What did she say to that?'

"She laughed again.  I tell you the woman has no shame!  Then she said if I would tell that
tale to Kagig as soon as I see him she would reward me with leave to live for one whole week
and an extra hour in which to pray to the devil----meaning, I suppose, that she intends to
kill me otherwise.  Then she wheeled her stallion--the brute was trying to tear out the muscles
of my thigh all that time --and rode away--and I followed--and here I am!"

"How much truth is there in your assertion that you saw her lover?" Will demanded.

"None.  I but said it to test her."

"Why in thunder should she want it believed?"

"God knows, who made gipsies!"

At that moment the advance-guard rode into an open meadow, crossed by a shallow, singing stream
at which Kagig ordered a halt to water horses.  So we closed up with him, and he repeated to
us what he had evidently said before to Monty.

"Maga says--I let her go scouting--she says she met a man who told her that Miss Gloria Vanderman
and a party of seven were attacked on the road, but escaped, and now have doubled on their
tracks so that they are far on their return to Tarsus."

Rustum Khan met Monty's eyes, and his lips moved silently.

"What do you know, sirdar?" Monty asked him.

"The woman lies!"

Maga was glaring at Rustum Khan as a leopardess eyes an enemy.  As he spoke she made a significant
gesture with a finger across her throat, which the Rajput, if he saw, ignored.

"To what extent?" demanded Kagig calmly.

"Wholly!  I followed her.  She met no man, although she pawed the ground at a place where eight
ridden horses had crossed soft ground a day ago."

Kagig nodded, recognizing truth--a rather rare gift.

If the Rajput's guess was wrong and Maga did know shame, at any rate she did not choose that
moment to betray it.

"Oh, very well!" she sneered.  "There were eight horses.  They were galloping.  The track was
nine hours old."

Kagig nodded without any symptom of annoyance or reproach.

"There is an ancient castle in the hills up yonder," he said, "in which there may be many Armenians
hiding."

He took it for granted we would go and find out, and Maga recognized the drift.

"Very well," she said.  "Let that one go, and that one," pointing at Fred and me.

"You'll appreciate, of course," said Monty, "that it's out of the question for us to go forward
until we know where that lady is."

Kagig bowed gravely.

"I am needed at Zeitoon," he answered.

Then Maga broke in shrilly, pointing at Will:

"Take that one for hostage!" she advised.  "Bring him along to Zeitoon. Then the rest will follow!"

Kagig looked gravely at her.

"I shall take this one," he answered, laying a respectful hand on Monty's sleeve.  "Effendi,
you are an Eenglis lord.  Be your life and comfort on my head, but I need a hostage for my
nation's sake. You others--I admit the urgency--shall hunt the missionary lady. If I have this
one"--again he touched Monty--"I know well you will come seeking him!  You, effendi, you understand
my--necessity?"

Monty nodded, smiling gravely.  There was a fire at the back of Monty's eyes and something
in his bearing I had never seen before.

"Then I go with my colonel sahib!" announced Rustum Khan.  "That gipsy woman will kill him
otherwise!"

"Better help hunt for the lady, Rustum Khan."

"Nay, colonel sahib bahadur--thy blood on my head!  I go with thee --into hell and out beyond
if need be!"

"You fellows agreeable?" asked Monty.  "There is no disputing Kagig's decision.  We're at his
mercy."

"We've got to find Miss Vanderman!" said Will.

"You are not at my mercy, effendi," grumbled Kagig.  The man was obviously distressed.  "You
are rather at my discretion.  I am responsible.  For my nation's sake and for my honor I dare
not lose you.  Who has not seen how a cow will follow the calf in a wagon? So in your case,
if I hold the one--the chief one--the noble one--the lord--the cousin of the Eenglis king"
(Monty's rank was mounting like mercury in a tube as Kagig warmed to the argument) --"you others
will certainly hunt him up-hill and down-dale.  Thus will my honor and my country's cause both
profit!"

Monty smiled benignantly.

"It's all one, Kagig.  Why labor the point?  I'm going with you. Rustum Khan prefers to come
with me."  Kagig looked askance at Rustum Khan, but made no comment.  "One hostage is enough
for your purpose. Let me talk with my friends a minute."

Kagig nodded, and we four drew aside.

"Now," demanded Fred, who knew the signs, "what special quixotry do you mean springing?"

"Shut up, Fred.  There's no need for you fellows to follow Kagig another yard.  He'll be quite
satisfied if he has me in keeping. That will serve all practical purposes.  What you three
must do is find Miss Vanderman if you can, and take her back to Tarsus.  There you can help
the consul bring pressure to bear on the authorities."

"Rot!" retorted Fred.  "Didums, you're drunk.  Where did you get the drink?"

Monty smiled, for he held a card that could out-trump our best one, and he knew it.  In fact
he led it straight away.

"D'you mean to say you'd consider it decent to find that young woman in the mountains and drag
her to Zeitoon at Kagig's tail, when Tarsus is not more than three days' ride away at most?
You know the Turks wouldn't dare touch you on the road to the coast."

"For that matter," said Fred, "the Turks 'ud hardly dare touch Miss Vanderman herself."

"Then leave her in the hills!" grinned Monty.  "Kagig tells me that the Kurds are riding down
in hundreds from Kaisarich way.  He says they'll arrive too late to loot the cities, but they're
experts at hunting along the mountain range.  Why not leave the lady to the tender ministrations
of the Kurds!"

"One 'ud think you and Kagig knew of buried treasure!  Or has he promised to make you Duke
of Zeitoon?" asked Will.  "Tisn't right, Monty.  You've no call to force our band in this way."

"Name a better way," said Monty.

None of us could.  The proposal was perfectly logical.

Three of us, even supposing Kagig should care to lend us some of his Zeitoonli horsemen, would
be all too few for the rescue work. Certainly we could not leave a lady unprotected in these
hills, with the threat of plundering Kurds overhanging.  If we found her we could hardly carry
her off up-country if there were any safer course.

"Time--time is swift!" said Kagig, pulling out a watch like a big brass turnip and shaking
it, presumably to encourage the mechanism.

"The fact is," said Monty, drawing us farther aside, for Rustum Khan was growing restive and
inquisitive, "I've not much faith in Kagig's prospects at Zeitoon.  He has talked to me all
along the road, and I don't believe he bases much reliance on his men.  He counts more on holding
me as hostage and so obliging the Turkish government to call off its murderers.  If you men
can rescue that lady in the hills and return to Tarsus you can serve Kagig best and give me
my best chance too.  Hurry back and help the consul raise Cain!"

That closed the arguments, because Maga Jhaere slipped past Kagig and approached us with the
obvious intention of listening.  She had discovered a knowledge of English scarcely perfect
but astonishingly comprehensive, which she had chosen to keep to herself when we first met--a
regular gipsy trick.  Fred threw down the gauntlet to her, uncovering depths of distrust that
we others had never suspected under his air of being amused.

"Now, miss!" he said, striding up to her.  "Let us understand each other!  This is my friend."
He pointed to Monty.  "If harm comes to him that you could have prevented, you shall pay!"

Maga tossed back her loose coils of hair and laughed.

"Never fear, sahib!" Rustum Khan called out.  "If ought should happen to my Colonel sahib that
Umm Kulsum shall be first to die.  The women shall tell of her death for a generation, to frighten
naughty children!"

"You hear that?" demanded Fred.

Maga laughed again, and swore in some outlandish tongue.

"I hear!  And you hear this, you old--" She called Fred by a name that would make the butchers
wince in the abattoirs at Liverpool. "If anything happens to that man,--she pointed to Will,
and her eyes blazed with lawless pleasure in his evident discomfort--"I myself --me--this woman--I
alone will keel--keel--keel--torture first and afterwards keel your friend 'at you call Monty!
I am Maga!  You have heard me say what I will do!  As for that Rustum Khan--you shall never
see him no more ever!"

Kagig pulled out the enormous watch again.  He seemed oblivious of Maga's threats--not even
aware that she had spoken, although she was hissing through impudent dazzling teeth within
three yards of him.

"The time," he said, "has fleed--has fled--has flown.  Now we must go, effendi!"

"I go with that man!" announced Maga, pointing at Will, but obviously well aware that nothing
of the kind would be permitted.

"Maga, come!" said Kagig, and got on his horse.  "You gentlemen may take with you each one
Zeitoonli servant.  No, no more.  No, the ammunition in your pockets must suffice.  Yes, I
know the remainder is yours;  come then to Zeitoon and get it!  Haide--Haide!  Mount! Ride!
Haide, Zeitoonli!  To Zeitoon!  Chabuk!"

Chapter Nine "And you left your friend to help me?"

WITH NEW TONGUES

Oh, bard of Avon, thou whose measured muse Most sweetly sings Elizabethan views To shame ungentle
smiths of journalese With thy sublimest verse, what words are these That shine amid the lines
like jewels set But ere thine hour no bard had chosen yet? Didst thou in masterly disdain of
too much law Not only limn the truths no others saw But also, lord not slave of written word,
Lend ear to what no other poet heard And, liberal minded on the Mermaid bench With bow for
blade and chaff for serving wench Await from overseas slang-slinging Jack Who brought the new
vocabulary back?

So we three stood still in a row disconsolate, with three ragged men of Zeitoon holding our
horses and theirs, and watched Monty ride away in the midst of Kagig's motley command, he not
turning to wave back to us because he did not like the parting any better than we did, although
he had pretended to be all in favor of it.

Kagig had left us one mule for our luggage, and the beast was unlikely to be overburdened,
for at the last minute he had turned surly, and as he sat like a general of division to watch
his patch-and-string command go by he showed how Eye of Zeitoon only failed him for a title
in giving his other eye--the one he kept on us--too little credit.  It was a good-looking crowd
of irregulars that he reviewed, and every bearded, goat-skin clad veteran in it had a word
to say to him, and he an answer--sometimes a sermon by way of answer.  But he saw every item
that we removed from the common packs, and sternly reproved us when we tried to exceed what
he considered reasonable. At that he based our probable requirements on what would have been
surfeit of encumbrance for himself.

"Empty your pockets, effendim!" he ordered at last.  "Six cartridges each for rifle, and six
each for pistol must be all.  Your cartridges I know they are.  But my people are in extremity!"

When he rode away at last, sitting his horse in the fashion of a Don Cossack and shepherding
Maga in front of him because she kept checking her gray stallion for another look at Will,
he left us no alternative than to take to the mountains swiftly unless we cared to starve.
We watched Monty's back disappear over a rise, with Rustum Khan close behind, and then Fred
signed to one of the three Zeitoonli to lead on.

All three of the men Kagig had left with us were surly, mainly, no doubt, because they disliked
separation from their friends.  But there was fear, too, expressed in their manner of riding
close together, and in the fidgety way in which they watched the smoke of burning Armenian
villages that smudged the sky to our left.

"If they try to bolt after Kagig and leave us in the lurch I'm going to waste exactly one cartridge
as a warning," Fred announced. "After that--!"

"Probably Kagig 'ud skin them if they turned up without us," remarked Will.

There was something in that theory, for we learned later what Kagig's ferocity could be when
driven hard enough.  But from first to last those men of Zeitoon never showed a symptom of
treachery, although their resentment at having to turn their backs toward home appeared to
deepen hourly.

With strange unreason they made no haste, whereas we were in a frenzy of impatience;  and when
Fred sought to improve their temper by singing the songs that had hitherto acted like charms
on Kagig's whole command, they turned in their saddles and cursed him for calling attention to us.

"Inch goozek?" demanded one of them (What would you like?), and with a gesture that made the
blood run cold he suggested the choice between hanging and disembowelment.

Will solved the speed problem by striving to push past them along the narrow track;  and they
were so determined to keep in front of us that within half an hour from the start our horses
were sweating freely.  Then we began to climb, dismounting presently to lead our horses, and
all notions of speed went the way of other vanity.

Several times looking back toward our right hand we caught sight of Kagig's string threading
its way over a rise, or passing like a line of ants under the brow of a gravel bank.  But they
were too far away to discern which of the moving specks might be Monty, although Kagig was
now and then unmistakable, his air of authority growing on him and distinguishing him as long
as he kept in sight.

We saw nothing of the footprints in soft earth that Maga had read so offhandedly.  In fact
we took another way, less cluttered up with roots and bushes, that led not straight, but persistently
toward an up-towering crag like an eye-tooth.  Below it was thick forest, shaped like a shovel
beard, and the crag stuck above the beard like an old man's last tooth.

But mountains have a discouraging way of folding and refolding so that the air-line from point
to point bears no relation to the length of the trail.  The last kites were drooping lazily
toward their perches for the night when we drew near the edge of the forest at last, and were
suddenly brought to a halt by a challenge from overhead.  We could see nobody.  Only a hoarse
voice warned us that it was death to advance another yard, and our tired animals needed no
persuasion to stand still.

There, under a protruding lock as it were of the beard, we waited in shadow while an invisible
somebody, whose rifle scraped rather noisily against a branch, eyed every inch of us at his
leisure.

"Who are you?" he demanded at last in Armenian, and one of our three men enlightened him in
long-drawn detail.

The explanation did not satisfy.  We were told to remain exactly where we were until somebody
else was fetched.  After twenty minutes, when it was already pitch-dark, we heard the breaking
of twigs, and low voices as three or four men descended together among the trees. Then we were
examined again from close quarters in the dark, and there are few less agreeable sensations.
The goose-flesh rises and the clammy cold sweat takes all the comfort out of waning courage.

But somebody among the shadowy tree-trunks at last seemed to think he recognized familiar attitudes,
and asked again who we might be. And, weary of explanations that only achieved delay our man
lumped us all in one invoice and snarled irritably:

"These are Americans!"

The famous "Open sesame" that unlocked Ali Baba's cave never worked swifter then.  Reckless
of possible traps no less than five men flung themselves out of Cimmerian gloom and seized
us in welcoming arms. I was lifted from the saddle by a man six inches shorter than myself,
whose arms could have crushed me like an insect.

"We might have known Americans would bring us help!" he panted in my ear.  His breath came
short not from effort, but excitement.

Fred was in like predicament.  I could just see his shadow struggling in the embrace of an
enthusiastic host, and somewhere out of sight Will was answering in nasal indubitable Yankee
the questions of three other men.

"This way!  Come this way!  Bring the horses, oh, Zeitoonli!  Americans! Americans!  God heard
us--there have come Americans!"

Threading this and that way among tree-trunks that to our unaccustomed eyes were simply slightly
denser blots on blackness, Will managed to get between Fred and me.

"We're all of us Yankees this trip!" he whispered, and I knew he was grinning, enjoying it
hugely.  So often he had been taken for an Englishman because of partnership with us that he
had almost ceased to mind;  but he spared himself none of the amusement to be drawn out of
the new turn of affairs, nor us any of the chaff that we had never spared him.

"Take my advice," he said, "and try to act you're Yanks for all you've got.  If you can make
blind men believe it, you may get out of this with whole skins!"

I expected the retort discourteous to that from Fred, who was between Will and me, shepherded
like us by hard-breathing, unseen men.  But he was much too subtly skilful in piercing the
chain-mail of Will's humor--even in that hour.

"Sure!" he answered.  "I guess any gosh-durned rube in these parts 'll know without being told
what neck o' the woods I hail from. Schenectady's my middle name!  I'm--"

"Oh, my God!" groaned Will.  "We don't talk that way in the States. The missionaries--"

"I'm the guy who put the 'oh!' in Ohio!" continued Fred.  "I'm running mate to Colonel Cody,
and I've ridden herd on half the cows in Hocuspocus County, Wis.!  I can sing The Star-Spangled
Banner with my head under water, and eat a chain of frankforts two links a minute!  I'm the
riproaring original two-gun man from Tabascoville, and any gink who doubts it has no time to
say his prayers!"

There were paragraphs more of it, delivered at uneven intervals between deep gasps for breath
as we made unsteady progress up-hill among roots and rocks left purposely for the confusion
of an enemy.  At first it filled Will with despair that set me laughing at him.  Then Will
threw seriousness to the winds and laughed too, so that the spell of impending evil, caused
as much as anything by forced separation from Monty, was broken.

But it did better than put us in rising spirits.  It convinced the Armenians!  That foolish
jargon, picked up from comic papers and the penny dreadfuls, convince more firmly than any
written proof the products of the mission schools, whose one ambition was to be American themselves,
and whose one pathetic peak of humor was the occasional glimpse of United States slang dropped
for their edification by missionary teachers!

"By jimminy!" remarked an Armenian near me.

"Gosh-all-hemlocks!" said another.

Thenceforward nothing undermined their faith in us.  Plenty of amused repudiation was very
soon forthcoming from another source, but it passed over their heads.  Fred and I, because
we used fool expressions without relation to the context or proportion, were established as
the genuine article;  Will, perhaps a rather doubtful quantity with his conservative grammar
and quiet speech, was accepted for our sakes. They took an arm on either side of us to help
us up the hill, and in proof of heart-to-heart esteem shouted "Oopsidaisy!" when we stumbled
in the pitchy dark.  When we were brought to a stand at last by a snarled challenge and the
click of rifles overhead, they answered with the chorus of Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay, a classic that
ought to have died an unnatural death almost a quarter of a century before.

Suddenly we smelt Standard oil, and a man emerged through a gap in ancient masonry less than
six feet away carrying a battered, cheap "hurricane" lantern whose cracked glass had been reenforced
with patches of brown paper.  He was armed to the teeth--literally.  He had a long knife in
his mouth, a pistol in his left hand, and a rifle slung behind him, but after one long look
at us, holding the lantern to each face in turn, he suddenly discarded all appearances of ferocity.

"You know about pistols?" he demanded of me in English, because I was nearest, and thrust his
Mauser repeater under my nose.  "Why won't this one work?  I have tried it every way."

"Lordy!" remarked Will.

"Lead on in!" I suggested.  Then, remembering my new part, "It'll have to be some defect if
one of us can't fix it!"

The gap-guard purred approval and swung his lantern by way of invitation to follow him as he
turned on a naked heel and led the way.  We entered one at a time through a hole in the wall
of what looked like the dungeon of an ancient castle, and followed him presently up the narrow
stone steps leading to a trap-door in the floor above.  The trap-door was made of odds and
ends of planking held in place by weights. When he knocked on it with the muzzle of his rifle
we could hear men lifting things before they could open it.

When a gap appeared overhead at last there was no blaze of light to make us blink, but a row
of heads at each edge of the hole with nothing but another lantern somewhere in the gloom behind
them. One by one we went up and they made way for us, closing in each time to scan the next-comer's
face;  and when we were all up they laid the planks again, and piled heavy stones in place.
Then an old man lighted another lantern, using no match, although there was a box of them beside
him on the floor, but transferring flame patiently with a blade of dry grass.  Somebody else
lit a torch of resinous wood that gave a good blaze but smoked abominably.

"What has become of our horses?" demanded Fred, looking swiftly about him.

We were in a great, dim stone-walled room whose roof showed a corner of star-lit sky in one
place.  There were twenty men surrounding us, but no woman.  Two trade-blankets sewn together
with string hanging over an opening in the wall at the far end of the room suggested, nevertheless,
that the other sex might be within ear-shot.

"The horses?" Fred demanded again, a bit peremptorily.

One of the men who had met us smirked and made apologetic motions with his hands.

"They will be attended to, effendi--"

"I know it!  I guarantee it!  By the ace of brute force, if a horse is missing--!  Arabaiji!"

One of our three Zeitoonli stepped forward.

"Take the other two men, Arabaiji, and go down to the horses.  Groom them.  Feed them.  If
any one prevents you, return and tell me." Then he turned to our hosts.  "Some natives of Somaliland
once ate my horse for supper, but I learned that lesson.  So did they!  I trust I needn't be
severe with you!"

There was no furniture in the room, except a mat at one corner. They were standing all about
us, and perfectly able to murder us if so disposed, but none made any effort to restrain our
Zeitoonli.

"Now we're three to their twenty!" I whispered, and Will nodded. But Fred carried matters with
a high hand.

"Send a man down with them to show them where the horses are, please!"

There seemed to be nobody in command, but evidently one man was least of all, for they all
began at once to order him below, and he went, grumbling.

"You see, effendi, we have no meat at all," said the man who had spoken first.

"But you don't look hungry," asserted Fred.

They were a ragged crowd, unshaven and not too clean, with the usual air of men whose only
clothes are on their backs and have been there for a week past.  All sorts of clothes they
wore--odds and ends for the most part, probably snatched and pulled on in the first moment
of a night alarm.

"Not yet, effendi.  But we have no meat, and soon we shall have eaten all the grain."

"Well," said Fred, "if you need horse-meat, gosh durn you, take it from the Turks!"

"Gosh durn you!" grinned three or four men, nudging one another.

They were lost between a furtive habit born of hiding for dear life, a desire to be extremely
friendly, and a new suspicion of Fred's high hand.  Fred's next words added disconcertment.

"Where is Miss Vanderman?" he demanded, suddenly.

Before any one had time to answer Will made a swift move to the wall, and took his stand where
nobody could get behind him.  He did not produce his pistol, but there was that in his eye
that suggested it.  I followed suit, so that in the event of trouble we stood a fair chance
of protecting Fred.

"What do you mean?" asked three Armenians together.

"Did you never see men try to cover a secret before?" Will whispered.

"Or give it away?" I added.  Six of the men placed themselves between Fred and the opening
where the blankets hung, ostentatiously not looking at the blankets.

"Have you an American lady with you?" Fred asked, and as he spoke he reached a hand behind
him.  But it was not his pistol that he drew. He carries his concertina slung to him by a strap
with the care that some men lavish on a camera.  He took it in both hands, and loosed the catch.

"Have you an American lady named Miss Vanderman with you?" he repeated.

"Effendi, we do not understand."

He repeated in Armenian, and then in Turkish, but they shook their heads.

"Very well," he said, "I'll soon find out.  A mission-school pupil might sing My Country, 'Tis
of Thee or Suwannee River or Poor Blind Joe.  You know Poor Blind Joe, eh?  Sung it in school?
I thought so.  I'll bet you don't know this one."

He filled his impudent instrument with wind and forthwith the belly of that ancient castle
rang to the strains of a tune no missionaries sing, although no doubt the missionary ladies
are familiar with it yet from where the Arctic night shuts down on Behring Sea to the Solomon
Islands and beyond--a song that achieved popularity by lacking national significance, and won
a war by imparting recklessness to typhus camps.  I was certain then, and still dare bet to-day
that those ruined castle walls re-echoed for the first time that evening to the clamor of '--a
hot time in the old town to-night!"

Seeing the point in a flash, we three roared the song together, and then again, and then once
more for interest, the Armenians eying us spell-bound, at a loss to explain the madness.  Then
there began to be unexplained movements behind the blanket hanging;  and a minute later a woman
broke through -an unmistakable Armenian, still good-looking but a little past the prime of
life, and very obviously mentally distressed.  She scarcely took notice of us, but poured forth
a long flow of rhetoric interspersed with sobs for breath.  I could see Fred chuckling as he
listened.  All the facial warnings that a dozen men could make at the woman from behind Fred's
back could not check her from telling all she knew.

Nor were Will and I, who knew no Armenian, kept in doubt very long as to the nature of her
trouble.  We heard another woman's voice, behind two or three sets of curtains by the sound
of it, that came rapidly nearer;  and there were sounds of scuffling.  Then we heard words.

"Please play that tune again, whoever you are!  Do you hear me? Do you understand?"

"Boston!" announced Will, diagnosing accents.

"You bet your life I understand!" Fred shouted, and clanged through half a dozen bars again.

That seemed satisfactory to the owner of the voice.  The scuffling was renewed, and in a moment
she had burst through the crude curtains with two women clinging to her, and stood there with
her brown hair falling on her shoulders and her dress all disarrayed but looking simply serene
in contrast to the women who tried to restrain her. They tried once or twice to thrust her
back through the curtain, although clearly determined to do her no injury;  but she held her
ground easily.  At a rough guess it was tennis and boating that had done more for her muscles
than ever strenuous housework did for the Armenians.

"Who are you?" she asked, and Will laughed with delight.

"I reckon you'll be Miss Vanderman?' suggested Fred in outrageous Yankee accent.  She stared
hard at him.

"I am Miss Vanderman.  Who are you, please.

I sat down on the great stone they had rolled over the trap, for even in that flickering, smoky
light I could see that this young woman was incarnate loveliness as well as health and strength.
Will was our only ladies' man (for Fred is no more than random troubadour, decamping before
any love-affair gets serious).  The thought conjured visions of Maga, and what she might do.
For about ten seconds my head swam, and I could hardly keep my feet.

Will left the opening bars of the overture to Fred, with rather the air of a man who lets a
trout have line.  And Fred blundered in contentedly.

"I'll allow my name is Oakes--Fred Oakes," he said.

"Please explain!"  She looked from one to the other of us.

"We three are American towerists, going the grand trip." (Remember, a score of Armenians were
listening.  Fred's intention was at least as much to continue their contentment as to extract
humor from the situation.)  "You being reported missing we allowed to pick you up and run you
in to Tarsus.  Air you agreeable?"

The women were still clinging to her as if their whole future depended on keeping her prisoner,
yet without hurt.  She looked down at them pathetically, and then at the men, who were showing
no disposition to order her release.

"I don't understand in the least yet.  I find you bewildering.  Can you contrive to let us
talk for a few minutes alone?"

"You bet your young life I can!"

Fred stepped to the wall beside us, but we none of us drew pistol yet.  We had no right to
presume we were not among friends.

"Thirty minutes interlude!" he announced.  "The man who stands in this room one minute from
now, or who comes back to the room without my leave, is not my friend, and shall learn what
that means!"

He repeated the soft insinuation in Armenian, and then in Turkish because he knows that language
best.  There is not an Armenian who has not been compelled to learn Turkish for all official
purposes, and unconsciously they gave obedience to the hated conquerors' tongue, repressing
the desire to argue that wells perennially in Armenian breasts.  They had not been long enough
enjoying stolen liberty to overcome yet the full effects of Turkish rule.

"And oblige me by leaving that lady alone with us!" Fred continued. "Let those dames fall away!"

Somebody said something to the women.  Another Armenian remarked more or less casually that
we should be unable to escape from the room in any case.  The others rolled the great stone
from the trap and shoved the smaller stones aside, and then they all filed down the stone stairs,
leaving us alone--although by the trembling blankets it was easy to tell that the women had
not gone far.  The last man who went below handed the spluttering torch to Miss Vanderman,
as if she might need it to defend herself, and she stood there shaking it to try and make it
smoke less until the planks were back in place. She was totally unconscious of it, but with
the torch-light gleaming on her hair and reflected in her blue eyes she looked like the spirit
of old romance come forth to start a holy war.

"Now please explain!" she begged, when I had pushed the last stone in place.  "First, what
kind of Americans can you possibly be?  Do you all use such extraordinary accents, and such
expressions?"

"Don't I talk American to beat the band?" objected Fred.  "Sit down on this rock a while, and
I'll convince you."

She sat on the rock, and we gathered round her.  She was not more than twenty-two or three,
but as perfectly assured and fearless as only a well-bred woman can be in the presence of unshaven
men she does not know.  Fred would have continued the tomfoolery, but Will oared in.

"I'm Will Yerkes, Miss Vanderman."

"Oh!"

"I know Nurse Vanderman at the mission."

"Yes, she spoke of you."

"Fred Oakes here is--"

"Is English as they make them, yes, I know!  Why the amazing efforts to--"

"I stand abashed, like the leopard with the spots unchangeable!" said Fred, and grinned most
unashamedly.

"They're both English."

"Yes, I see, but why--"

"It's only as good Americans that we three could hope to enter here alive.  They're death on
all other sorts of non-Armenians now they've taken to the woods.  We supposed you were here,
and of course we had to come and get you."

She nodded.  "Of course.  But how did you know?"

"That's a long story.  Tell us first why you're here, and why you're a prisoner."

"I was going to the mission at Marash--to stay a year there and help, before returning to the
States.  They warned me in Tarsus that the trip might be dangerous, but I know how short-handed
they are at Marash, and I wouldn't listen.  Besides, they picked the best men they could find
to bring me on the way, and I started.  I had a Turkish permit to travel--a teskere they call
it--see, I have it here.  It was perfectly ridiculous to think of my not going."

"Perfectly!" Fred agreed.  "Any young woman in your place would have come away!"

She laughed, and colored a trifle.  "Women and men are equals in the States, Mr. Oakes."

"And the Turk ought to know that!  I get you, Miss Vanderman!  I see the point exactly!"

"At any rate, I started.  And we slept at night in the houses of Armenians whom my guides knew,
so that the journey wasn't bad at all.  Everything was going splendidly until we reached a
sort of crossroads--if you can call those goat-tracks roads without stretching truth too far--and
there three men came galloping toward us on blown horses from the direction of Marash.  We
could hardly get them to stop and tell us what the trouble was, they were in such a hurry,
but I set my horse across the path and we held them up."

"As any young lady would have done!" Fred murmured.

"Never mind. I did it!  They told us, when they could get their breath and quit looking behind
them like men afraid of ghosts, that the Turks in Marash--which by all accounts is a very fanatical
place--had started to murder Armenians.  They yelled at me to turn and run.

" 'Run where?' I asked them.  'The Turks won't murder me!'

"That seemed to make them think, and they and my six men all talked together in Armenian much
too fast for me to understand a word of it.  Then they pointed to some smoke on the sky-line
that they said was from burning Armenian homes in Marash.

" 'Why didn't you take refuge in the mission?' I asked them.  And they answered that it was
because the mission grounds were already full of refugees.

"Well, if that were true--and mind you, I didn't believe it--it was a good reason why I should
hurry there and help.  If the mission staff was overworked before that they would be simply
overwhelmed now.  So I told them to turn round and come to Marash with me and my six men."

"And what did they say?" we demanded together.

"They laughed.  They said nothing at all to me.  Perhaps they thought I was mad.  They talked
together for five minutes, and then without consulting me they seized my bridle and galloped
up a goat-path that led after a most interminable ride to this place."

"Where they hold you to ransom?"

"Not at all.  They've been very kind to me.  I think that at the bottom of their thoughts there
may be some idea of exchanging me for some of their own women whom the Turks have made away
with. But a stronger motive than that is the determination to keep me safe and be able to produce
me afterward in proof of their bona fides. They've got me here as witness, for another thing.
And then, I've started a sort of hospital in this old keep.  There are literally hundreds of
men and women hiding in these hills, and the women are beginning to come to me for advice,
and to talk with me.  I'm pretty nearly as useful here as I would be at Marash."

"And you're--let's see--nineteen-twenty--one--two--not more than twenty-two," suggested Fred.

"Is intelligence governed by age and sex in England." she retorted, and Fred smiled in confession
of a hit.

"Go on," said Will.  "Tell us."

"There's nothing more to tell.  When I started to run toward the--ah --music, the women tried
to prevent me.  They knew Americans had come, and they feared you might take me away."

"They were guessing good!" grinned Will.

She shook her head, and the loosened coils of hair fell lower.  One could hardly have blamed
a man who had desired her in that lawless land and sought to carry her off.  The Armenian men
must have been temptation proof, or else there had been safety in numbers.

"I shall stay here.  How could I leave them?  The women need me. There are babies--daily--almost
hourly--here in these lean hills, and no organized help of any kind until I came."

"How long have you been here?" I asked.

"Nearly two days.  Wait till I've been here a week and you'll see."

"We can't wait to see!" Will answered.  "We've a friend of our own in a tight place.  The best
we can do is to rescue you--"

"I don't need to be rescued!"

"--to rescue you--take you back to Tarsus, where you'll be safe until the trouble's over--and
then hurry to the help of our own man."

"Who is your own man?  Tell me about him."

"He's a prince."

"Really?"

"No, really an earl--Earl of Montdidier.  White.  White all through to the wish-bone.  Whitest
man I ever camped with.  He's the goods."

"If you'd said less I'd have skinned you for an ingrate!" Fred announced.       "Monty is a
man men love."

Miss Vanderman nodded. "Where is he?"

"On the way to a place called Zeitoon," answered Will.

"He's a hostage, held by Armenians in the hope of putting pressure on the Turks.  Kagig--the
Armenians, that's to say--let us go to rescue you, knowing that he was sufficiently important
for their purpose."

"And you left your friend to help me?"

"Of course.  What do you suppose?"

"And if I were to go with you to Tarsus, what then?"

"He says we're to ride herd on the consulate and argue."

"Will you?"

"Sure we'll argue.  We'll raise particular young hell.  Then back we go to Zeitoon to join him!"

"Would you have gone to Tarsus except on my account?"

Will hesitated.

"No.  I see.  Of course you wouldn't.  Well.  What do you take me for?  You did not know me
then.  You do now.  Do you think I'd consent to your leaving your fine friend in pawn while
you dance attendance on me?  Thank you kindly for your offer, but go back to him!  If you don't
I'll never speak to one of you again!"

Chapter Ten "When I fire this Pistol--"

THESE LITTLE ONES

If Life were what the liars say And failure called the tune Mayhap the road to ruin then Were
cluttered deep wi' broken men; We'd all be seekers blindly led To weave wi' worms among the
dead, If Life were what the liars say And failure called the tune.

But Life is Father of us all (Dear Father, if we knew!) And underneath eternal arms Uphold.
We'll mock the false alarms, And trample on the neck of pain, And laugh the dead alive again,
For Life is Father to us all, And thanks are overdue!

If Truth were what the learned say And envy called the tune Mayhap 'twere trite what treason
saith That man is dust and ends in death; We'd slay with proof of printed law Whatever was
new that seers saw, If Truth were what the learned say And envy called the tune.

But Truth is Brother of us all (Oh, Brother, if we knew!) Unspattered by the muddied lies That
pass for wisdom of the wise-- Compassionate, alert, unbought, Of purity and presence wrought,--
Big Brother that includes us all Nor knows the name of Few!

If Love were what the harlots say And hunger called the tune Mayhap we'd need conserve the
joys Weighed grudgingly to girls and boys, And eat the angels trapped and sold By shriven priests
for stolen gold, If Love were what the harlots say And hunger called the tune.

But Love is Mother of us all (Dear Mother, if we knew!)-- So wise that not a sparrow falls,
Nor friendless in the prison calls Uncomforted or uncaressed. There's magic milk at Mercy's
breast, And little ones shall lead us all When Trite Love calls the tune!

Naturally, being what we were, with our friend Monty held in durance by a chief of outlaws,
we were perfectly ready to kidnap Miss Vanderman and ride off with her in case she should be
inclined to delay proceedings.  It was also natural that we had not spoken of that contingency,
nor even considered it.

"We never dreamed of your refusing to come with us," said Will.

"We still don't dream of it!" Fred asserted, and she turned her head very swiftly to look at
him with level brows.  Next she met my eyes. If there was in her consciousness the slightest
trace of doubt, or fear, or admission that her sex might be less responsible than ours, she
did not show it.  Rather in the blue eyes and the athletic poise of chin, and neck, and shoulders
there was a dignity beyond ours.

Will laughed.

"Don't let's be ridiculous," she said.  "I shall do as I see fit."

Fred's neat beard has a trick of losing something of its trim when he proposes to assert himself,
and I recognized the symptoms.  But at the moment of that impasse the Armenians below us had
decided that self-assertion was their cue, and there came great noises as they thundered with
a short pole on the trap and made the stones jump that held it down.

At that signal several women emerged from behind the hanging blankets --young and old women
in various states of disarray--and stood in attitudes suggestive of aggression.  One did not
get the idea that Armenians, men or women, were sheeplike pacifists.  They watched Miss Vanderman
with the evident purpose of attacking us the moment she appealed to them.

"If you don't roll the stones away I think there'll be trouble," she said, and came and stood
between Will and me.  Fred got behind me, and began to whisper.  I heard something or other
about the trap, and supposed he was asking me to open it, although I failed to see why the
request should be kept secret;  but the women forestalled me, and in a moment they had the
stones shoved aside and the men were emerging one by one through the opening.

Then at last I got Fred's meaning.  There was a second of indecision during which the Armenians
consulted their women-folk, in two minds between snatching Miss Vanderman out of our reach
or discovering first what our purpose might be.  I took advantage of it to slip down the stone
stairs behind them.

The opening in the castle wall was easy to find, for the star-lit sky looked luminous through
the hole.  Once outside, however, the gloom of ancient trees and the castle's shadow seemed
blacker than the dungeon had been.  I groped about, and stumbled over loose stones fallen from
the castle wall, until at last one of our own Zeitoonli discovered me and, thinking I might
be a trouble-maker, tripped me up.  Cursing fervently from underneath his iron-hard carcass
I made him recognize me at last.  Then he offered me tobacco, unquestionably stolen from our
pack, and sat down beside me on a rock while I recovered breath.

It took longer to do that than he expected, for he had enjoyed the advantage of surprise while
hampered by no compunctions on the ground of moderation.  When the agony of windlessness was
gone and I could question him he assured me that the horses were well enough, but that he and
his two companions were hungry.  Furthermore, he added, the animals were very closely watched--so
much so that the other two, Sombat and Noorian, were standing guard to watch the watchers.

"But I am sure they are fools," he added.

This man Arabaiji had been an excellent servant, but decidedly supercilious toward the others
from the time when he first came to us in the khan at Tarsus.  Regarding himself as intelligent,
which he was, he usually refused to concede that quality, or anything resembling it, to his
companions.

"That is why I was looking for you when you hit me in the dark with that club of a fist of
yours," I answered.  "I wanted to speak with you alone because I know you are not a fool."

He felt so flattered that he promptly let his pipe go out.

"While Sombat and Noorian are keeping an eye on the horses, I want you to watch for trouble
up above here," I said.  "In case the people of this place should seek to make us prisoner,
then I want you to gallop, if you can get your horse, and run otherwise, to the nearest--"

He checked me with a gesture and one word.

"Kagig!"

"What about him?" I demanded.

"If I were to bring Turks here, Kagig would never rest until my fingers were pulled off one
by one!"

"If you were to bring Turks here, or appeal to Turks," said I, "Kagig would never get you."

"How not?"

"Unless he should find your dead carcass after my friends and I had finished with it!"

"What then?"

He lighted his pipe again by way of reestablishing himself in his own esteem, and it glowed
and crackled wetly in the dark beside me in response to the workings of his intelligence.

"In case of trouble up here, and our being held prisoner, go and find other Armenians, and
order them in Kagig's name to come and rescue us."

"Those who obey Kagig are with Kagig," he answered.

"Surely not all?"

"All that Kagig could gather to him after eleven years!"

"In that case go to Kagig, and tell him."

"Kagig would not come.  He holds Zeitoon."

"Are you a fool?"

"Not I!  The other two are fools."

"Then do you understand that in case these people should make us prisoner--"

He nodded.  "They might.  They might propose to sell you to the Turks, perhaps against their
own stolen women-folk."

"Then don't you see that if you were gone, and I told them you had gone to bring Kagig, they
would let us go rather than face Kagig's wrath?"

"But Kagig would not come."

"I know that.  But how should they know it?"

I knew that be nodded again by the motion of the glowing tobacco in his pipe.  It glowed suddenly
bright, as a new idea dawned on him.  He was an honest fellow, and did not conceal the thought.

"Kagig would not send me back to you," he said.  "He is short of men at Zeitoon."

"Never mind," said I.  "In case of trouble up above here, but not otherwise, will you do that?"

"Gladly.  But give it me in writing, lest Kagig have me beaten for running from you without leave."

That was my turn to jump at a proposal.  I tore a sheet from my memorandum book, and scribbled
in the dark, knowing be could not read what I had written.

"This writing says that you did not run away until you had made quite sure we were in difficulties.
So, if you should run too soon, and we should not be in difficulties after all, Kagig would
learn that sooner or later.  What would Kagig do in that case?"

"He would throw me over the bridge at Zeitoon--if he could catch me!  Nay!  I play no tricks."

"Good.  Then go and hide.  Hide within call.  Within an hour, or at most two hours we shall
know how the land lies.  If all should be well I will change that writing for another one,
and send you to Kagig in any case.  No more words now--go and hide!"

He put his pipe out with his thumb, and took two strides into a shadow, and was gone.  Then
I went back through the gap in the dungeon wall, and stumbled to the stairs.  Apparently not
missing me yet, they had covered up the trap, and I had to hammer on it for admission. They
were not pleased when my head appeared through the hole, and they realized that I had probably
held communication with our men. I suppose Fred saw by my face that I had accomplished what
I went for, because he let out a laugh like a fox's bark that did nothing toward lessening
the tension.

On the other hand it was quite clear that during my absence Miss Vanderman had not been idle.
Excepting the two men who had admitted me, every one was seated--she on the floor among the
women, with her back to the wall, and the rest in a semicircle facing them. Two of the women
had their arms about her, affectionately, but not without a hint of who controlled the situation.

"What have you been doing?" Fred demanded, and be laughed at Gloria Vanderman with an air of
triumph.

"Making preparations," I said, "to take Miss Vanderman to Tarsus."

I wish I could set down here a chart of the mixed emotions then expressed on that young lady's
face.  She did not look at Will, knowing perhaps that she already had him captive of her bow
and spear. Neither did Will look at us, but sat tracing figures with a forefinger in the dust
between his knees, wondering perhaps how to excuse or explain, and getting no comfort.

If my guess was correct, Gloria Vanderman was about equally distracted between the alternative
ignominy of submitting her free will to Armenians or else to us.  Compassion for the women
in their predicament weighed one way--knowledge that our friend Monty was in durance vile contingent
on her actions pulled heavily another Fred was frankly enjoying himself, which influenced her
strongly toward the Armenian side, she being young and, doubtless the idol of a hundred heart-sick
Americans, contemptuous of forty-year-old bachelors.

"Of course we shall not let you go!" one of the Armenians assured her in quite good English,
and I began fumbling at the pistol in my inner pocket, for if Arabaiji was to run to Zeitoon,
then the sooner the better.  But it needed only that imputation of helplessness to tip the
beam of Miss Gloria's judgment.

"You can attend to the sick ones.  You can play music for us all. Doubtless these other two
have qualifications."

I was too busy admiring Gloria to know what effect that announcement had on Fred and Will.
She shook herself free from the women, and stood up, splendid in the flickering yellow light.
There was a sort of swift move by every one to be ready against contingencies, and I judged
it the right moment to spring my own surprise.

"When I fire this pistol," I said, producing it, "a man will start at once for Zeitoon to warn
Kagig.  He has a note in his pocket written to Kagig.  Judge for yourselves how long it will
take Kagig and his men to reach this place!"

The nearest man made a very well-judged spring at me and pinned my elbows from behind.  Another
man knocked the pistol from my hand. The women seized Gloria again.  But Fred was too quick--drew
his own pistol, and fired at the roof.

"Twice, Fred!" I shouted, and he fired again.

"There!" said I.  "Do what you like.  The messenger has gone!"

And then Gloria shook herself free a last time, and took command.

"Is that true?" she demanded.

I nodded.  "The best of our three men was to start on his way the minute he heard the second shot."

Then I was sure she was Boadicea reincarnate, whether the old-time British queen did or did
not have blue eyes and brown hair.

"I will not have brave men brought back here on my account!  Kagig must be a patriot!  He needs
all his men!  I don't blame him for making a hostage of Lord Montdidier!  I would do the same
myself!"

Will had evidently given her a pretty complete synopsis of our adventure while I was outside
talking with Arabaiji.  It is always a mystery to the British that Americans should hold themselves
a race apart and rally to each other as if the rest of the Anglo-Saxon race were foreigners,
but those two had obeyed the racial rule. They understood each other--swiftly--a bar and a
half ahead of the tune.

"This old castle is no good!" she went on, not raising her voice very high, but making it ring
with the wholesomeness of youth, and youth's intolerance of limits.  "The Turks could come
to this place and burn it within a day if they chose!"

"The Turks won't trouble.  They'll send their friends the Kurds instead," Fred assured her.

"Ah-h-h-gh !" growled the Armenians, but she waved them back to silence.

"How much food have you?  Almost none!  How much ammunition?"

"Ah-h-h-h!" they chorused in a very different tone of voice.

"D'you mean you've got cartridges here?" Fred demanded.

"Fifty cases of cartridges for government Mauser rifles!" bragged the man who was nearest to Will.

"Gee!  Kagig 'ud give his eyes for them!"  (Will devoted his eyes to the more poetic purpose
of exchanging flashed encouragement with Gloria.)

"Men, women and children--how many of you are there?"

"Who knows?  Who has counted?  They keep coming."

"No, they don't.  You've set a guard to keep any more away for fear the food won't last--I
know you have!  Well--what does it matter how many you are?  I say let us all go to Zeitoon
and help Kagig!"

"Oh, bravo!" shouted Fred, but it was Will's praise that proved acceptable and made her smile.

"Second the motion!"

I added a word or two by way of make-weight, that did more as a matter of fact than her young
ardor to convince those very skeptical men and women.  No doubt she broke up their determination
to sit still, but it was my words that set them on a course.

"Kagig will be angry when he comes.  He's a ruthless man," said I, and the Armenians, men as
well as women, sought one another's eyes and nodded.

"Kagig must be more of a ruthless bird than we guessed!" Will whispered.

Counting women, there was less than a score of refugees in the room, and if we had only had
them to convince, our work was pretty nearly done.  There was the guard among the trees down-hill
that we knew about still to be converted, or perhaps coerced.  But just at the moment when
we felt we held the winning hand, there came a ladder thrust down through the hole in the corner
of the roof, and a man whom they all greeted as Ephraim began to climb down backward.  He was
so loaded with every imaginable kind of weapon that he made more noise than a tinker's cart.

Nor was Ephraim the only new arrival.  Man after man came down backward after him, each man
cursed richly for treading on his predecessor's fingers--a seeming endless chain of men that
did not cease when the room was already uncomfortably overcrowded.  Some of these men wore
clothes that suggested Russia, but the majority were in rags.  The ladder swayed and creaked
under them, and finally, at a word from Ephraim, the last-comers sat on the upper rungs, bending
the frail thing with their weight into a complaining loop.

Several of the newcomers had torches, and their acrid smoke turned the twice-breathed air of
the place into evil-tasting fog.

Three men put their faces close to Ephraim's and proceeded to enlighten him as to what had
passed.  He seemed to be recognized as some sort of chieftain, and carried himself with a commanding
air, but so many men talked at once, and all in Armenian, that we could not pick out more than
a word or two here and there.  Even Fred, with his gift of tongues, could hardly make head
or tail of it.

We three pressed through the swarm and took our stand beside Gloria, not hesitating to thrust
the other women aside.  They dragged at their men-folk to call attention to us, but the argument
was too hot to be missed, and the women clawed and screamed in vain.

"I believe we could get out!" I shouted in Will's ear.  But he shook his head.  At least six
men were standing on the trap, and we could not have driven them off it because there was no
other space on the floor that they could occupy.  So I turned to Fred.

"Couldn't we shake those ruffians off the ladder, and climb up it and escape?" I shouted. 
But Fred shook his head, and went on listening, trying to follow the course of the dispute.

At last somebody with louder lungs than any other man made Ephraim understand that it was I
who sent the messenger to Zeitoon.  Instantly that solved the problem to his mind.  I should
be hanged, and that would be all about it.  He gesticulated.  The men swarmed down off the
ladder to the already overcrowded floor, and mistaking Will for me several men started to thrust
him forward.  A face appeared through the hole in the roof and its owner was sent running for
a rope. I had not recovered my pistol, and my rifle was slung at my back where I could not
possibly get at it for the crowd.  But Fred had a Colt repeater handy in his hip-pocket and
he promptly screwed the muzzle of it into Ephraim's ear.  What he said to him I don't know,
but Ephraim's convictions underwent a change of base and he began to yell for silence.  The
men who had seized Will let go of him just as the rope with a disgusting noose in the end was
lowered through the roof.  And then Ossa was imposed on Pelion.

A new face appeared at the hole.  Not that we could see the face. We could only see the form
of a man who shook the bloody stump of a forearm at us, and shrieked unintelligible things.
After thirty seconds even the men in the far corner were aware of him, and then there was stony
silence while he had his say.  He repeated his message a dozen times, as if he had it by heart
exactly, spitting foam out of his mouth and never ceasing to shake the butchered stump of an
arm.  At about the dozenth time he fainted and fell headlong down the ladder bringing up on
the shoulders of the men below.

"What does he say?" I bellowed in Fred's car.  But Fred was forcing his way closer to Gloria,
to tell her.

"He says the Kurds are coming!  He says two regiments of Kurdish cavalry have been turned loose
by the Turks with orders to 'rescue' Armenians.  They are on their way, riding by night for
a wonder. They cut both his hands off, but he got away by shamming dead.

He says they are cutting off the feet of people and bidding them walk to Tarsus.  They are
taking the women and girls for sale.  Old women and very little children they are making what
they call sport with.  Have you heard of Kurds?  Their ideas of sport are worse than the Red-man's
ever were."

Every tongue in the room broke loose.  In another second every man was still.  They looked
toward Ephraim.  He who could order a hanging so glibly should shoulder the new responsibility.

But Ephraim was not ready with a plan, and could not speak English. Wild-eyed, he seized the
lapel of my coat in trembling fingers, and with a throat grown suddenly parched, crackled a
question at me in Armenian.  I could have understood Volopuk easier.

"What does he say, Fred?"

"He wants to know how soon Kagig can be here."

"Kagig!" Ephraim echoed, clutching at my collar.  "Yes, yes, yes! Kagig!  Come--how soon?"

"We shall be all right," said another man in English over on the far side of the room.  His
hoarse voice sounded like a bellow in the silence.  "Kagig will come presently.  Kagig will
butcher the Kurds.  Kagig will certainly save us."

"Kagig!" Ephraim insisted.  "Come----how soon?"

But I knew Kagig would not come, that night or at any time, and Ephraim shook me in frenzied
impatience for an answer.

Chapter Eleven "That man's dose is death, and he dies unshriven!"

"MALE AND FEMALE CREATED HE THEM"

The ancient orders pass.  The fetters fall. All-potent inspiration stirs dead peoples to new
birth. And over bloodied fields a new, clear call Rings kindlier on deadened ears of earth.
Man--male--usurping--unwise overlord, Indoctrinated, flattered, by himself betrayed And all-betraying
since with idiot word He bade his woman bear and be afraid, Awakes to see delusion of the past
Unmourned along with all injustice die, Himself by woman wisdom blessed at last And her unchallenged
right the reason why.

Now for a moment I became the unwilling vortex of that mob of anxious men and women--I who
by, my own confession knew Kagig, I who had sent Kagig a message, I who five minutes ago was
on the verge of being hanged in the greasy noose that still swung above the ladder through
the hole in the roof--I who therefore ought to be thoroughly plastic-minded and obedient to
demands.

The place had become as evil smelling as the Black Hole of Calcutta. Everybody was sweating,
and they shoved and milled murderously in the effort to get near me and learn, each with his
own ears from my lips, just when Kagig might be expected.  Ephraim, their presumptive leader,
got shuffled to the outside of the pack--the only silent man between the four walls, watchful
for new opportunity.

With my clothing nearly torn off and cars in agony from bellowed questions, the only remedy
I could think of was to yell to Fred to start up a tune on his concertina;  I had seen him
change a crowd's temper many a time in just that way.  But even supposing my advice had been
good, he could not get his arms free, and it was Gloria Vanderman who saved that day.

Whoever has tried to write down the quality that makes the college girl, United States or English,
what she is has failed, just as whoever has tried to muzzle or discredit her has failed.  She
is something new that has happened to the world, not because of men and women and the priests
and pundits, but in spite of them.  Part of the reason can be given by him who knows history
enough, and commands almost unlimited leisure and page;  but that would only be the uninteresting
part that we could easily dispense with.  The college girl has happened to the world, as light
did in Genesis 1:3.

Gloria Vanderman, with her back against the wall, struggled and contrived to get her foot on
Will's bent knee.  Another struggle sent her breast-high above the sea of sweating faces. 
There was fitful light enough to see her by, because the man who held a pine torch was privileged.
If there had not been hot sparks scattering from the thing doubtless they would have closed
in on him and crushed it down, and out, but he had elbow-room, and accordingly Gloria's face
glowed golden in its frame of disordered chestnut hair.  One heard her voice because it was
clear, and sweet with reasonableness, so that it vibrated in an unobstructed orbit.

"Surely you are not cowards?" she began, and they grew silent, because that idea called for
consideration.

"Kagig is a patriot.  Kagig is fighting for all Armenia.  Surely you are not the men to let
brave Kagig be tempted away from his post of danger at Zeitoon?  If I know you men and women
you will hasten to meet Kagig, taking your food, and weapons, and children with you. You will
hurry--hurry--hurry to meet him--to meet him as near Zeitoon as possible, so as to turn him
back to his post of duty!"

Then Ephraim saw his chance.  Some whisperer translated to him and he owned a voice that was
worth gold for political purposes.

He took up the tale in Armenian, working himself up into a splendid fervor, and so amplifying
the argument that he could almost fairly claim it as his own before he was half-done.  She
had introduced the light, but he exploited it, and he knew his nation--knew the tricks of speech
most likely to spur them into action.

Within five minutes they were shoving the stones off the trap at imminent risk of anybody's
legs, and the ladder bent groaning under the weight of twice as many as it ought to bear, as
half of them essayed the short cut over the roof.  A blast of sweet air through the opened
trap ejected most of the smoky ten-times-breathed stuff out with the climbers;  and as the
room emptied and we wiped the grimy sweat from our faces I heard Will talking to Gloria Vanderman
in a new tongue--new, that is to say, to the old world.

"Good goods!  Stampeded 'em!  They'll vote for you for any office --your pick!  If that guy
Ephraim plans buttering the slide we'll set him on it--watch!"

"You bet," she answered sentimentally.  "I wasn't cheer leader for nothing.  Besides, I delivered
the valedictory--say, what are we waiting here for?"

"Come on, then!" I urged her.  "We'll leave our mule-load behind in case they've eaten your
horse.  Come with us to the stables and--"

But she interrupted me.

"You men go down and get the horses.  Do what you can with the crowd. I'll get the women into
something like order if that's possible, and we'll all meet wherever there's open ground and
moonlight at the foot of the hill."

"I'll come with you," Will proposed.  "You'll need--"

"No you won't!  The women are easy.  They've been taught to obey orders!  It'll take all the
wit you three men own between you to get the men in line!  Let's get busy!"

The men had treated the hanging blankets with the respect the ancient Jews accorded to the
veil of the Holy of Holies.  (We learned afterward that there was an Armenian man of the party
who had followed a circus one summer all across the States, and had brought that sensible precaution
home with him as rule number one for successful management of mixed assemblies.)  Gloria Vanderman
made a run for the curtain and dived behind it.  We heard the women welcome her.

"Let's go!" said Will.

Will had ever been our ladies' man in all our wanderings, because women could never resist
his unaffected comradeship.  Even among Americans he was rare in his gift of according to women
equality not only of liberty, but of understanding and good sense, and it went like wine to
the heads of some we had met, so that Will was seldom without a sex-problem on his hands and
ours.  But Will was too good a comrade to be surrendered to any woman lightly.

"Damn that chicken!" murmured Fred by way of praying fervently, pausing in the breach in the
wall to rub his shin.  "Feel that bruise, will you!  No young woman ever brought me luck yet!"

"What are you waiting for?" complained a voice from outer darkness. "Come on, you rummies!"

Fred sat down on the protruding stone that had injured his shin, and detained me with his arm
across the opening.

"Mark my words!  In order that that young woman may be educated to consider Will Yerkes a paragon
of unimaginable virtues, we--you and I--are going to have to do what he calls 'hustle.'  We're
going to see speed, and we're going to sweat, trying to catch up.  There isn't a scatterbrained
adventure conceivable that we're not going to be forced into, nor an imaginable peril that
we're not going to have to pull him out of.  We're going to be cursed for our trouble, and
ridiculed to make amusement for her majesty.  And at the end of it all we're going to be patronized
for a couple of ignorant damned fools who don't know better than be bachelors.  What's worse,
we're going to submit tamely.  What is infinitely worse, we're going to like it!  There are
times when I doubt the sanity of my whole sex!"

"Have you guys taken root?" demanded the familiar voice and we heard Will's returning footsteps.

"No, America.  But I have to sit down when my shin hurts and I'm seized with the gift of prophecy."

"Huh!  We'll find Miss Vanderman tired of waiting for us with the women.  Since when has a
crack on the shin made a baby of you?  You used to be tough enough!"

"D'you get the idea?" chuckled Fred.  "We're coming, Will, we're coming."

Perfectly unconsciously Will took the lead, and most outrageously he drove us.  Not that his
driving was not shrewd, for his usually practical and quick mind seemed to take on added brilliancy.
And since we first joined partnership--he and Monty and Fred and I--we had always been contented
to follow the lead of whichever held it at the moment.  But there was new efficiency, and impatience
of a brand-new kind that would not rest until every man and animal had been rummaged in darkness
out of that old ruin, and men, horses, cows, goats, bags of grain, and fifty cases of cartridges
were driven down through the forest like water forced through a sieve, and were gathered in
the only open space discoverable.

There we cooled our heels, fearful and full of vague imaginings until Miss Vanderman should
bring the women, not at all encouraged by shouts in the distance that well might be the exulting
of plundering Kurds, nor by occasional rifle-shots that sounded continually nearer, nor by
the angry crimson glow of burning roofs that lighted half the horizon.

We waited an hour, Will objecting whenever either of us proposed to return and speed Miss Vanderman.

"Aw, what's the use?  D'you suppose she doesn't know we're waiting?"

At last Fred proposed that Will himself go and investigate.  He went through the form of demurring,
but yielded gracefully.

"The spirit," Fred chuckled, "is weak, and the flesh is willing!"

Will handed his mule's reins to an Armenian and started alone up-hill through the pitch-dark
forest;  and because the world is mixed of unexpectedness and grim jest in fairly equal proportions,
five minutes after he left us Gloria Vanderman came leading the women by another path.

To avoid confusion with our part, and for sake of silence, she had led them a circuit, and
except for the occasional wail of a child and a little low talking that blended like the hum
of insects with the night, they made very little noise.  The rear was brought up by the strongest
women carrying the sick and wounded on litters that had been improvised in a hurry, and like
most things of the sort were much too heavy.

"Your mule is ready," said I.  But she shook her head.

"You gentlemen must give your mules up to the sick and wounded. We well ones can walk."

I did not know how to answer her, although I knew she was wrong. The way to organize a marching
column is not to level down to the ability of the weakest, although the pace of the weakest
may have to be the measure of speed.  We, who had to protect the column and shepherd it, would
need our mounts;  without them we should all be at the mercy of any enemy, with no corresponding
gain to any one except the litter-bearers.  All the same, I did not care to take issue with
that capable young woman then and there.  She would have put me in the wrong and left me speechless
and indignant, after the fashion that is older than poor Shylock's tale.

But Fred is made of sterner stuff than I, and was never above amusing himself at the expense
of anybody's dignity.

"Will is the youngest," he answered.  "Besides, he's keeping us all waiting with his love-affairs!
He ought to be made to walk!"

"His love-affairs?"

"He went into the woods to see a woman," Fred answered imperturbably. "Let him forfeit his
mule.  Here he comes.  Did you find her, America?"

Will emerged out of gloom with a grin on his face.

"Just my luck!" he said simply.  "What are we waiting for?  I can hear the Kurds.  Let's start."

At that Gloria got excited.

"D'you mean you're willing to leave a woman behind alone in that forest?" she demanded, and
Will's jaw dropped.

Fred nudged my ribs.

"Come on!  We've given 'em a ground for their first quarrel.  They'll never thank us if we
wait a week.  Mount!  Walk--ride!"

We sent our two Zeitoonli in advance to show the way.  True to his word, Arabaiji had left
us, mule and all, and we missed him as we strove to get the unwieldy column marshaled and moving
in line. We did not see Will and Gloria again that night, except when they passed between us,
walking, arguing--Will explaining--we sitting on our mules on either side of the track until
the last of the swarm tailed by.  Then we brought up the rear together, to drive the stragglers
and look out for pursuit.

"Not that I know what the devil we'll do if the Kurds get after us!" said Fred.

"Let's hope they make for the castle to-night, and waste time plundering that."

"Piffle!" he answered.

"Why?"

"Because, you ass, if they get to the place and find if empty they'll deduce, being less than
idiots, that we're not far off and that we're at their mercy in the open!  Let's hope to God
they funk attacking in the dark, and wait out of range of the walls until daylight. In that
case we've a chance.  Otherwise--I've still got six rifle cartridges, and four for my pistol.
How many have you?"

"Six of each."

"Then you owe me one for my pistol."

I passed it to him.

"So.  Now we're good for exactly twenty-two Kurds between us.  If we're pursued I propose to
give those two young lovers a chance by making every cartridge count from behind cover."

"They'd hear the shooting and--"

"Not if we drop far enough behind."

"They'd hear shooting and Will, at any rate, would ride back."

"He couldn't!  He'd have to look after the girl and the column."

"All the same--Will's--"

"I know he is.  Very well.  I'll arrange it another way.  You wait behind here."

So I rode along slowly, and he spurred his horse to a trot.  But he did not hold the trot long.
I could hear him objurgating, coaxing, encouraging, explaining, and the shrill voices of women
answering, as he tried at one and the same time to pass the unfortunates in the dark and to
make them see the grim necessity for speed.  Soon I grew as busy as he, bullying litter-bearers
and mothers burdened with crying babies.  In times of massacre and war, survivors are not necessarily
those who enjoyed the best of it.  Nearly-drowned men brought to life again would forego the
process if the choice were theirs, and there were nearly twenty women who would have preferred
death to that night's march.  But I did not dare load my horse with babies, since it would
likely be needed before dawn for sterner work.

It was more than an hour before Fred loomed in sight again, standing beside his horse in wait
for me.  He, too, had resisted the temptation to relieve mothers of their living loads (not
that they ever expected it).

"How did you manage?" I asked, for I could tell by his air that the errand had been successful.

"I lied to him."

"Of course.  What did you say?"

"Said if the straggling got bad you and I might fall a long way behind and fire our pistols,
so as to give the impression Kurds are in pursuit. That would tickle up the rear-end to a run!"

"And he believed that?" Will knew as well as I Fred's not exactly subtle way of maneuvering
to get the post of greatest danger for himself.

"He'd have believed anything!  He's head-, heart-and heels-over-end in love with the girl,
and she's as bad as he is.  They're talking political economy and international jurisprudence.
When I reached 'em they'd just arrived at the conclusion that the United States can save the
world, maybe--maybe not, but nothing else can.  I was decidedly de trop.  They're pretty to
watch.  No, he hasn't kissed her yet--you could tell that even in the dark.  It's my belief
he won't for a long time;  America's way with women is beyond belief. They're telling each
other all they know, and like, and dislike, and believe, and hope.  It 'ud take a bullet to
divide their destinies. I delivered my message, and they were so devilish polite you'd think
I was the parson come to marry 'em.  They'd forgotten my very existence. When it dawned on
'em who I was they were so keen to be rid of me they'd have agreed to anything at all.  So
it was easy."

"Good."

"No, it's bad.  Will's a friend of mine.  I hate to see him squandered on a woman.  However,
I did better than that."

"How so?"

As I spoke there loomed out of the darkness just ahead of us eight men surrounding something
on the track, their rifles sticking up above their shoulders.

"I've found eight men with rifles all alike that fit the ammunition in the boxes.  It's stolen
Turkish government ammunition, by the way.  The rifles come from the same source.  The point
is that a man caught with a stolen government rifle and ammunition in his possession would
be tortured.  Incidentally the men seem game. Therefore, if we have to fight a rear-guard action
we can reasonably count on them.  Haide!" he called to the eight men, and they picked up the
case of cartridges, and resumed the march just ahead of us.

Fred lit his pipe contentedly, as he always is contented when he can make satisfactory arrangements
to sacrifice himself unselfishly and pretend to himself he is a cynic.  Whether because the
armed guard of their own people put new courage in them, or because rifles at their rear made
them more afraid, the stragglers gave less trouble for the next few hours.  Perhaps they were
growing more used to the march, and some of them were numb with anxiety, while not so weary
yet that feet would not carry them forward.

Somewhere in advance a man with a high tenor voice began to sing a wild folk-song, of the sort
that is common to all countries whose heritage is hope unstrangled.  He and others like him
with love and music in their brave hearts sang the tortured column through its night of agony,
keeping alive faint hope that hell must have an end. Dawn broke sweet and calm.  For it makes
no matter if a nation writhes in agony, or man wreaks hate on man, the wind and the sky still
whisper and smile;  and the scent of wild flowers is not canceled by the stench of tired humanity.

Fred knocked his pipe out and rode to the top of shoulder of rock beside the track, beckoning
to me to follow.  We could see our column, astonishingly long drawn, winding like a line of
ants in and out and over, following the leaders in a dream because there seemed nothing else
to do or dream about.  Once I thought I caught sight of Will on his horse, passing between
trees, but I was not sure.  Fred turned his horse about and looked in the direction we had
come from.  Presently, be nudged me.

"That smoke might be the castle we were in last night.  See--it's red underneath.  What'll
you bet me Kurds don't show up in pursuit before the day's an hour old?"

That was nothing to bet about, and that kind of dawn is not the hour for roseate optimism.

"If they come," said I,  "I hope I don't live to see what they'll do to the women."

Fred met my eyes and laughed.

"That's all right," he said.  "You ride on.  This rock commands the track.  I'll follow later
when pursuit's called off."

"Ride on yourself!" I answered, and he chuckled as he lighted his pipe again.

One of the men had a kerosene can filled with odds and ends of personal belongings.  I turned
them out in a hollow of the rock, and sent him to fill the can with drinking water at a spring.
Then Fred and I chose stations, and Fred went to vast pains lecturing every one of us on how
to keep cover.  We had nothing to eat, and therefore no notion of putting up anything but a
short fight.  Our best point was the surprise that unexpected, organized resistance would be
likely to produce on plundering Kurds.

It was pleasant enough where we lay, and reminded both of us of far less strenuous days.  The
little animals that are always curious to the point of their undoing came out and investigated
our tracks as soon as the noise of the stragglers had ceased.  The Armenians took no notice
of the wild life;  persecuted people seldom do, having their own hard case too much in mind;
but Fred knew the name of nearly every bird and animal that showed itself, and even ceased
smoking as his interest increased.

"Ever go fishing as a boy?" he asked.

"Didn't I!"

"Get up before daylight and escape from the house by the back way--"

"Stealing bread and cheese from the pantry on the way out--"

"And stopping where the grass was long near the watering place to dig worms--"

"And unchain the dog with frantic efforts to keep him from barking--"

"Yes, but the rascal always would do it--bark and wake everybody! Lucky if nobody saw you as
you slipped through the gate into the fields!"

"Ah!  But then what a time the dog had--it was almost as good fun as the fishing to watch him
scamper.  And how hungry he got--and he ate more than his share of the bread and cheese, so
that you'd have had to go home early because of the aching void if it hadn't been for the cottage
where they gave a fellow milk out of a brown dish."

"Yumm!  Didn't that country milk taste good!  Snff--snff--they were mornings just like this
at home when I went fishing.  Cool and sweet and full of scent.  Snff--snff !"

We sat still behind the ledge and let the air and scenery revive kind memories.  The only noise
was what our horses made cropping the grass in a hollow behind us, for the Armenians were well
content to ruminate.  Most likely they would have fallen asleep if we had not been there to
keep an eye on them, for prolonged subjection to too much fear is soporific, so that tortured
poor wretches sleep on the tightened rack.

I was very nearly asleep myself, having had practically none of it for two nights in succession,
and had taken to watching the horses to keep my mind busy, when the movement of my horse's
ears struck me as peculiar.  Presently he ceased grazing and raised his head. I thought he
was going to whinny, and turned to see Fred squinting down his rifle at something that was
not in the range of my vision.

"Here they come!" he whispered.

As he spoke a Kurd stepped out from between the trees, and we could see that he had tied his
horse to a branch in the gloom behind him. He had the long sleeves reaching nearly to the ground
peculiar to his race, and the unmistakable sheeny nose and cruel lips.  From the rifle that
he carried cavalierly over his shoulder hung a woman's undergarment, with a dark stain on it
that looked suspiciously like blood.  My horse whinnied then, and his beast answered.  At that
he brought his rifle to the "ready" and nearly jumped out of his skin.

"I'm judge, jury, witness, prosecutor and executioner!" Fred whispered. "That man's dose is
death, and he dies unshriven!"

Then he fired, and Fred could not miss at that range if he tried. The Kurd clapped a hand to
his throat and fell backward, and one of our Armenians ran before we could stop him to seize
the tied horse, and any other plunder.  One of the things he brought back with him, besides
the horse and rifle and ammunition belt, was a woman's finger with the ring not yet removed.
He said he found it in the cartridge pouch.

In proof that organized defense was the last thing they reckoned on, nine more Kurds came galloping
down the track pell-mell toward the place where they had heard the solitary rifle-shot, doubtless
supposing their own man had come upon the quarry.  We fired too fast, for the Armenians were
not drilled men, but we dropped two horses and five Kurds, and the remaining four fled, with
the riderless animals stampeding in their wake.

"What next?"' said I, as Fred wiped out his rifle-barrel.

"They'll return in greater force.  We'd better change ground.  D'you notice how this rock is
covered by that other one a quarter of a mile to the right?  Higher ground, too, and the last
place they'll look--come on!"

The man with the water-can spilled it all, for the sake of his medley of possessions, and I
had to send him all the way back for more. But we took up our new stand at last with the horses
well hidden and enough to drink to last the day out, and then had to wait half an hour before
any Kurds came back to the attack.

They came on the second time with infinite precaution, lurking among the trees on the outskirts
of the clearing and firing several random shots at our old position in the hope of drawing
our fire.  Finally, they emerged from the forest thirty strong and rushed our supposed hiding-place
at full gallop.

They were not even out of pistol range.  Fred used the Mauser rifle taken from the dead Kurd,
and then we both emptied our pistols at the fools, the Armenians meanwhile keeping up a savage
independent fire so ragged and rapid that it might have been the battle of Waterloo.

The Kurds never knew whether or not we were another party or the first one.  They never discovered
whether our former post was deserted or not.  We never knew how many of them we hit, for after
about a dozen had tumbled out of the saddle the remainder galloped for their lives.  For minutes
afterward we heard them crashing and pounding away in the distance to find their friends.

Our loot consisted of two wounded prisoners and four good horses, in addition to rifles and
cartridges.  We let the dead lie where they were for a warning to other scoundrels, and we
looked on while our Armenians searched the bodies for anything likely to be of slightest use.
They found almost nothing originally Kurdish, but more Armenian trinkets than would have stocked
a traveling merchant's show-case, including necklaces and earrings.

Fred took the two prisoners aside and in Persian, which every Kurd can understand and speak
after a fashion, offered them their choice between telling the whole truth or being handed
over to Armenians. And as there isn't a bloody rascal in the world but suspects his intended
victims of worse hankerings than his own, they loosed their tongues and told more than the
truth, adding whatever they thought likely to please Fred.

"They say there were only about fifty of them in this raiding party to begin with, and several
came to trouble before they met us.  Seems there are Armenians hidden here and there who are
able to give an account of themselves.  Ten or twelve elected to stay near the castle we were
in last night.  They've burned it, but they have some captured women and propose to enjoy themselves.
Shall we ride back and break in on the party?"

He meant what he said, but it was out of the question.  "The party we've just trounced will
give the alarm," I objected.  "We'd only ride into a trap.  Besides, you've no proof these
prisoners are not lying to you."

"They say their raiding party is the only one within thirty miles. They rode ahead of the regiments
to get first picking."

"We're none of us fit for anything but food and sleep," said I, and Fred had to concede the point.

Fortunately the food problem was solved for the moment by the Kurds, who had a sort of cheese
with them whose awful taste deprived one of further appetite.  We ate, and tied our two wounded
prisoners on one horse;  and as we had nothing to treat their wounds with except water they
finished their trip in exquisite discomfort.  Surprise that we should attend to their wounds
at all, added to their despondency after they had time to consider what it meant.  There was
only one burden to their lamentation:

"What are you going to do with us?  We will tell what we know!  We will name names!  We are
your slaves!  We kiss feet!  Ask, and we will answer!"

They thought they were being kept alive for torture, and we let them keep on thinking it. 
Fred tied their horse to his own saddle and towed them along, singing at the top of his lungs
to keep the rest of us awake;  and for all his noise I fell asleep until he reached for his
concertina and, the humor of the situation dawning on him, commenced a classic of his own composition,
causing the morning to re-echo with irreverence, and making all of us except the prisoners
aware of the fact that life is not to be taken seriously, even in Armenia.  The prisoners intuitively
guessed that the song had reference to ways and means they would rather have forgotten.

"Ow! My name it is 'orrible 'Enery 'Emms, And I 'ails from a 'ell of a 'ole! The things I 'ave
thought an' the deeds I 'ave did Are remarkable lawless an' better kep' hid, So if Morgan you
think of, an' Sharkey an' Kidd, Forget 'em!  To name such beginners as them's An insult, so
shivver my soul!  Yow! In every port o' the whole seven seas I 'ave two or three wives on the
rates, For I'm free wi' my fancy an' fly wi' my picks, And I've promised 'em plenty, an' given
'em nix, But have left ev'ry one in a 'ell of a fix! 'Ooever said Bluebeard was brother to
me's Either jealous or misunderstates!

"Wow!  For awful atrocity, murder an' theft, For battery, arson and hate, >From breakin' the
Sabbath to coveting cows, An' false affidavits an' perjurin' vows, I'm adept at whatever the
law disallows, And the gallowsmen gape at the noose that I left, For I flit while the bally
fools wait!"

Fred kept us awake all right.  Like most of his original songs, that one had sixty or seventy
verses.

Chapter Twelve "America's way with a woman is beyond belief!"

CUI  BONO?

Did caution keep the gates of Greece, Ye saints of "safety first!" Twixt Thessaly and Locris
when Leonidas' thousand men Died scornful of the proffered peace Of Xerxes the accurst? Watch
ye have kept, ward ye have kept, But watch and ward were vain If love and gratitude have slept
While ye stood guard for gain.

Or ye, who count the niggard cost In time and coin and gear Of succoring the under-dog, How
often have ye seen a hog, Establishing his glutton boast, Survive a famine year? Fast ye have
kept, feast ye have made; Vain were the deeds and doles If it was fear that ye obeyed To save
your coward souls.

Ye banish beauty to the stews For lack of eyes that see, And stifle joy with deadly rote As
empty as the texts ye quote, The while forgiveness ye refuse Lest wrath dishonored be. Gray
are your days, drab are your ways, Strong are your fashioned bars, But, ye who ask if service
pays - Who polishes the stars?

Spring in Armenia is almost as much like heaven as heaven itself could be, if it were not for
the unspeakable Turk, but his blight rests on everything.  I could have kept awake that morning
without Fred's irreverent music, simply for sake of the scenery, if its freshness had been
untainted.  But there hung a sickly, faint pall of smoke that robbed the green landscape of
all liveliness.  One breathed weariness instead of wine.

We could not possibly have lost the way, because our crawling column had left a swath behind
it of trampled grass and trodden crossing-places where the track wound and rewound in a game
of hide-and-seek with tinkling streams.  But we began to wonder, nevertheless, why we caught
up with nobody.

It was drawing on to ten in the morning, and I had dozed off for about the dozenth time, with
my horse in pretty much the same condition, when I heard Will's voice at last, and looked up.
He was standing alone on a ledge overlooking the track, but I could see the ends of rifles
sticking up close by.  If we had been an enemy, we should have stood small chance against him.

"Where are the rest of you?" I asked, and he laughed!

"Women, kids and wounded all swore a pitched battle was raging behind them.  Most of them wanted
to turn back and lend a hand.  I thought you guys mighty cruel to put all that scare into a
crowd in their condition--but I see--"

"Guests, America!  My country's at peace with Turkey!  Where shall we stow our guests?"

"There's a village below here."

He jerked a thumb over his shoulder.  But behind him was the apex of a spur thrust out in midcurve
of the mountainside, and one could not see around that.  We had emerged out of the straggling
outposts of the forest high above the plain, and to our right the whole panorama lay snoozing
in haze.  The path by which we had turned our backs on Monty and Kagig went winding away and
away below, here and there an infinitesimal thin line of slightly lighter color, but more often
suggested by the contour of the hills.  Our Zeitoonli in their zeal to return to their leader
had been evidently cutting corners.  If the smudge of smoke to the right front overhung Marash,
then we were probably already nearer Zeitoon than when we and Kagig parted company.

"Come up and see for yourselves," said Will.

Fred passed the line that held his prisoners in tow to an Armenian, and we climbed up together
on foot.  Around the corner of the spur, within fifty feet of where Will stood, was an almost
sheer escarpment, and at the foot of that, a thousand feet below us, with ramparts of living
rock on all four sides, crouched a little village fondled in the bosom of the mountains.

"They've piled down there and made 'emselves at home.  The place was deserted, prob'ly because
it 'ud be too easy to roll rocks down into it.  But I can't make 'em listen.  Ours is a pretty
chesty lot, with guts, and our taking part with 'em has stiffened their courage. They claim
they're goin' to hold this rats' nest against all the Turks and Kurds in Asia Minor!"

"That's where the rest of us are," said Will

"Where's Miss Vanderman?"

"Asleep--down in the village.  The're all asleep.  You guys go down there and sleep, too. 
I'll follow, soon as I've posted these men on watch.  That small square hut next the big one
in the middle is ours.  She's in the big one with a crowd of women.  Now don't make a fool
row and wake her!  Tie your horses in the shade where you see the others standing in line;
there's a little corn for them, and a lot of hay that the owners left behind."

So we undertook not to wake the lady, and left Will there carefully choosing places, in which
the men fell fast asleep almost the minute his back was turned.  Sleep was in the air that
morning--not mere weariness of mind and limb that a man could overcome, but inexplicable coma.
Whole armies are affected that way on occasion.  There was a man once named Sennacherib.

"Sleepy hollow!" said Fred, and as he spoke his horse pitched forward, almost spilling him;
the rope that held the prisoners in tow was all that saved the lot of them from rolling down-hill.
Fred dismounted, and drove the horse in front of him with a slap on the rump, but the beast
was almost too sleepy to make the effort to descend.

There was no taint of gas or poison fumes.  The air tasted fresh except for the faint smoke,
and the birds were all in full song. Yet we all had to dismount, and to let the prisoners walk,
too, because the horses were too drowsy to be trusted.  The path that zigzagged downward to
the village was dangerous enough without added risk, and the eight Armenian riflemen refused
point-blank to lead the way unless they might drive the animals ahead of them.

Even so, neither we nor they were properly awake ,when we reached the village.  We tied up
the horses in a sort of dream--fed them from instinct and habit--and made our way to the hut
Will had pointed out like men who walked in sleep.

Nobody was keeping watch.  Nobody noticed our arrival.  Men and women were sleeping in the
streets and under the eaves of the little houses. Nothing seemed awake but the stray dogs nosing
at men's feet and hunting hopelessly among the bundles.

The little house Will had reserved for our use contained a stool and a string-cot.  On the
stool was food--cheese and very dry bread; and because even in that waking dream we were conscious
of hunger, we ate a little of it.   Then we lay down on the floor and fell asleep--we, and
the prisoners, and the eight Armenian riflemen. Within a quarter of an hour Will followed us
into the house, but we knew nothing about that.  Then he, too, fell asleep, and until two or
three hours after dark we were a village of the dead.

To this day there is no explaining it.  Certainly no human watch or ward saved us from destruction
at the hands of roving enemies. I was awakened at last by a brilliant light, and the effort
made by our two prisoners, still tied together, to crawl across my body. I threw them off me,
and sat up, rubbing my eyes and wondering where I was.

In the door stood Kagig, with a lantern in his right hand thrust forward into the room.  His
eyes were ablaze with excitement, and between black beard and mustache his teeth showed in
a grin mixed of scorn and amusement.

Next I beard Will's voice:  "Jimminy!" and Will sat up.  Then Fred gave tongue:

"That you, Kagig?  Where's Monty?  Where's Lord Montdidier?"

Kagig strode into the room, set the lantern on the floor, struck the remnants of the food from
off the little stool, and sat down. I could see now that he was deathly tired.

"He is in Zeitoon," he answered.

Noises from outside began then to assert themselves in demonstration that the village was awake
at last--also that the population had swollen while we slept.  I could hear the restless movement
of more than twice the number of horses we had had with us.

Kagig began to laugh--a sort of dry cackle that included wonder as well as rebuke.  He threw
both hands outward, palms upward, in a gesture that complemented the motion of shoulders shrugged
up to his ears.

"All around--high hills!  From every side from fifty places rocks could have been rolled upon
you!  So--and so you sleep!"

"I set guards!" Will exploded.

"Eleven guards I found--all together in one place--fast asleep!"

He showed his splendid teeth and the palms of his hands again in actual enjoyment of the situation.
For the first time then I saw there was wet blood on his goat-skin coat.

"Kagig--you're wounded!"

He made a gesture of impatience.

"It is nothing--nothing.  My servant has attended to it."

So Kagig had a servant.  I felt glad of that.  It meant a rise from vagabondage to position
among his people.

Of all earthly attainments, the first and most desirable and last to let go of is an honest
servant--unless it be a friend.  (But the difference is not so distinct as it sounds.)

A huge fear suddenly seized Fred Oakes.

"You said Monty is in Zeitoon--alive or dead?  Quick, man!  Answer!"

"Should I leave Zeitoon," Kagig answered slowly, unless I left a better man in charge behind
me?  He is alive in Zeitoon--alive--alive! He is my brother!  He and I love one purpose with
a strong love that shall conquer!  You speak to me of Lord what-is-it?  Hah!  To me forever
he is Monty, my brother--my--"

"Where's Miss Vanderman?" I interrupted.

"Here!" she said quietly, and I turned my head to discover her sitting beside Will in the shadow
cast by Kagig's lantern.  She must have entered ahead of Kagig or close behind him, unseen
because of his bulk and the tricky light that he swung in his right hand.

Kagig went on as if he had not heard me.

"There is a castle--I think I told you?--perched on a crag in the forest beside Zeitoon.  My
men have cut a passage to it through the trees, for it had stood forgotten for God knows how
long.  Later you shall understand.  There came Arabaiji, riding a mule to death, saying you
and this lady are in danger of life at the hands of my nation.  I did not believe that, but
Monty--he believed it."

"And I'll wager you found him a hot handful!" laughed Fred. "Not so hot.  Not so hot.  But
very determined.  Later you shall understand.  He and I drove a bargain."

"Dammit!" Fred rose to his feet.  "D'you mean you used our predicament as a club to drive him
with?"

Kagig laughed dryly.

"Do you know your friend so little, and think so ill of me?  He named terms, and I agreed to
them.  I took a hundred mounted men to find you and bring you to Zeitoon, spreading them out
like a fan, to scour the country.  Some fell in with a thing the Turks call a hamidieh regiment;
that is a rabble of Kurds under the command of Tenekelis."

"What are they?"

"Tenekelis?  The word means 'tin-plate men.'  We call them that because of the tin badges given
them to wear in their head-dress.  In no other way do they resemble officers.  They are brigands
favored by official recognition, that is all.  Their purpose is to pillage Armenians.  While
you slept in this village, and your watchmen slept up above there, that whole rabble of bandits
with their tin-plate officers passed within half a mile, following along the track by which
you came!  If you had been awake--and cooking--or singing--or making any sort of noise they
must have heard you!  Instead, they turned down toward the plain a little short distance too
soon--and my men met them--and there was a skirmish--and I rallied my other men, and attacked
them suddenly.  We accounted for two of the tin-plate men, and so many of the thing they call
a regiment that the others took to flight.  Jannam!  (My soul!)  But you are paragons of sleepers!"

"Do you never sleep?" I asked him.

"Shall a man keep watch over a nation, and sleep?" he answered. "Aye--here a little, there
a little, I snatch sleep when I can. My heart burns in me.  I shall sleep on my horse on the
way back to Zeitoon, but the burning within will waken me by fits and starts."

He got up and stood very politely in front of Gloria Vanderman, removing his cossack kalpak
for the first time and holding it with a peculiar suggestion of humility.

"You shall be put to no indignity at the hands of my people," he said.  "They are not bad people,
but they have suffered, and some have been made afraid.  They would have kept you safe.  But
now you shall have twenty men if you wish, and they shall deliver you safely into Tarsus. 
If you wish it, I will send one of these gentlemen with you to keep you in countenance before
my men;  they are foreigners to you, and no one could blame you for fearing them.  The gentleman
would not wish to go, but I would send him!"

She shook her head, pretty merrily for a girl in her predicament.

"I was curious to meet you, Mr. Kagig, but that's nothing to the attraction that draws me now.
I must meet the other man--is it Monty you all call him--or never know a moment's peace!"

"You mean you will not go to Tarsus?"

"Of course I won't!"

"Of course!" laughed Fred.  "Any young woman--"

"Of course?" Kagig repeated the extravagant gesture of shrugged shoulders and up-turned palms.
"Ah, well.  You are American.  I will not argue. What would be the use?"

He turned his back on us and strode out with that air that not even the great stage-actors
can ever acquire, of becoming suddenly and utterly oblivious of present company in the consciousness
of deeds that need attention.  Generals of command, great captains of industry, and a few rare
statesmen have it;  but the statesmen are most rare, because they are trained to pretend, and
therefore unconvincing. The generals and captains are detested for it by all who have never
humbled themselves to the point where they can think, and be unselfishly absorbed.  Kagig stepped
out of one zone of thought into the next, and shut the door behind him.

A minute later we heard his voice uplifted in command, and the business of shepherding those
women and children was taken out of our hands by a man who understood the business.  The intoxicating
sounds that armed men make as they evolve formation out of chaos in the darkness came in through
open door and windows, and in another moment Kagig was back again with a hand on each door-post.

"You have brought all those cartridges!"

He thrust out both hands in front of him, and made the knuckles of every finger crack like
castanets.  In another second he was gone again.  But we knew we were now forgiven all our
sins of omission.

Somewhere about midnight, with a nearly full moon rising in a golden dream above the rim of
the ravine, we started.  And no wheeled vehicle could have followed by the track we took. 
It was no mean task for men on foot, and our burdened animals had to be given time.  Whether
or not Kagig slept, as he had said he would, on horse-back, he kept himself and our prisoners
out of sight somewhere in the van;  and this time the rear was brought up by a squadron of
ragged irregular horse that would have made any old campaigner choke with joy to look at them.

Drill those men knew very little of--only sufficient to make it possible to lead them.  No
two men were dressed alike, and some were not even armed alike, although stolen Turkish government
rifles far predominated. But they wore unanimously that dare-devil air, not swaggering because
there is no need, that has been the key to most of the sublime surprises of all war.  The commander,
whose men sit that way in the saddle and toss those jokes shoulder over shoulder down the line,
dare tackle forlorn hopes that would seem sheer leap-year lunacy to the martinet with twenty
times their number.

"Who'd have thought it?" said Fred.  "We've all heard the Turk was a first-class fighting man,
but I'd rather command fifty of these, than any five hundred Turks I ever saw.

There was no gainsaying that.  Whoever had seen armies with an understanding eye must have agreed.

"Turks don't hate Armenians for their faults," I answered.  "From what I know of the Turk he
likes sin, and prefers it cardinal.  If Armenians were mere degenerates, or murdering ruffians
like the Kurds, the Turk would like them."

Fred laughed.

"Then if a Turk liked me, you'd doubt my social fitness?"

"Sure I would, if he liked you well enough to attract attention. The fact that the Turk hates
Armenians is the best advertisement Armenians have got."

We were entering the heart of savage hills that tossed themselves in ever increasing grandeur
up toward the mist-draped crags of Kara Dagh, following a trail that was mostly watercourse.
The simple savagery of the mountains laid naked to view in the liquid golden light stirred
the Armenians behind us to the depths of thought; and theirs is a consciousness of warring
history;  of dominion long since taken from them, and debauched like pearls by swine;  of hope,
eternally upwelling, born of love of their trampled fatherland. They began to sing, and the
weft and woof of their songs were grief for all those things and a cherished, secret promise
that a limit had been set to their nation's agony.

In his own way, with his chosen, unchaste instrument Fred is a musician of parts.  He can pick
out the spirit of old songs, even when, as then, he hears them for the first time, and make
his concertina interpret them to wood and wind and sky.  Indoors he is a mere accompanist,
and in polite society his muse is dumb.  But in the open, given fair excuse and the opportunity,
he can make such music as compels men's ears and binds their hearts with his in common understanding.

Because of Fred's concertina, quite without knowing it, those Armenians opened their hearts
to us that night, so that when a day of testing came they regarded us unconsciously as friends.
Taught by the atrocity of cruel centuries to mistrust even one another, they would surely have
doubted us otherwise, when crisis came.  Nobody knows better than the Turk how to corrupt morality
and friendship, and Armenia is honeycombed with the rust of mutual suspicion.  But real music
is magic stuff.  No Turk knows any magic.

At dawn, twisting and zigzagging in among the ribs of rock-bound hills, we sighted the summit
of Beirut Dagh all wreathed in jeweled mist.  Then the only life in sight except ourselves
was eagles, nervously obsessed with goings-on on the horizon.  I counted as many as a dozen
at one time, wheeling swiftly, and circling higher for a wider view, but not one swooped to strike.

Once, as we turned into a track that they told us led to El Oghlu, we saw on a hill to our
left a small square building, gutted by fire. Twenty yards away from it, on top of the same
round hill, strange fruit was hanging from a larger oak than any we had seen thereabouts --fruit
that swung unseemly in the tainted wind.

"Turks!" announced one of Kagig's men, riding up to brag to us. "That square building is the
guard-house for the zaptieh, put there by the government to keep check on robbers.  They are
the worst robbers!"

The man spoke English with the usual mission-school air suggestive of underdone pie.  As a
rule they go to school at such great sacrifice, and then so limited for funds, that they have
to get by heart three times the amount an ordinary, undriven youth can learn in the allotted
time.  But by heart they have it.  And like the pie they call to mind, only the surface of
their talk is pale.  Because their heart is in the thing, they under-stand.

"By hanging Turkish police," said Fred, "you only give the Turks a good excuse for murdering
your friends."

"Come!" said the man of Zeitoon. "See."

He led the way down a path between young trees to a clearing where a swift stream gamboled
in the sun.  Down at the end of it, where the grass sloped gently upward toward the flanks
of a great rock was a little row of graves with a cross made of sticks at the head of each--clearly
not Turkish graves.

"Three men--eleven women," our guide said simply.

"You mean that the Turkish police--"

"There were fifteen on their way to Zeitoon.  One survived, and reached Zeitoon, and told.
Then he died, and we rode down to avenge them all.  The Turks took the three men and beat them
on the feet with sticks until the soles of their feet swelled up and burst. Then they made
them walk on their tortured feet.  Then they beat them to death.  Shall I say what they did
to the women?"

"What did you do to the Turks?" said I.

"Hanged them.  We are not animals--we simply, hanged them."

Somewhere about noon we rode down a gorge into the village of El Oghlu.  It was a miserable
place, with a miserable, tiny kahveh in the midst of it, and Kagig set that alight before our
end of the column came within a quarter of a mile of it.  We burned the rest of the village,
for he sent back Ephraim to order no shelter left for the regiments that would surely come
and hunt us down.  But the business took time, and we were farther than ever behind Kagig when
the last wooden roof began to cockle and crack in the heat.

Will and Gloria were somewhere on in front, and Fred and I began to put on speed to try to
overtake them.  But from the time of leaving the burned village of El Oghlu there began to
be a new impediment.

"We are not taking the shortest way," said Ephraim.  "The shortest way is too narrow--good
for one or two men in a hurry, but not for all of us."

We were gaining no speed by taking the easier road.  There began to be vultures in evidence,
mostly half-gorged, flopping about from one orgy to the next.  And out from among the rocks
and bushes there came fugitive Armenians--famished and wounded men and women, clinging to our
stirrups and begging for a lift on the way to Zeitoon.  Zeitoon was their one hope.  They were
all headed that way.

Fred detached a dozen mounted men to linger behind on guard against pursuit, and the rest of
us overloaded our horses with women and children, giving up all hope of overtaking Gloria and
Will, forgetting that they had come first on the scene.  In my mind I imagined them riding
side by side, Will with his easy cowboy seat, and Gloria looking like a boy except for the
chestnut hair.  But that imagination went the way of other vanities.

There was neither pleasure nor advantage in striding slowly beside my laboring horse, nor any
hope of mounting him again myself.  So I walked ahead and, being now horseless, ceased to be
mobbed by fugitives.  At the end of an hour I overtook two horses loaded with little children;
but there was no sign of Gloria and Will, and losing zest for the pursuit as the sun grew stronger
I sat down by the ways-side on a fallen tree.

It was then that I heard voices that I recognized.  The first was a woman's.

"I'm simply crazy to know him."

A man's, that I could not mistake even amid the roar of a city, answered her.

"You've a treat in store.  Monty is my idea of a regular he-man."

"Is he good-looking?"

"Yes.  Stands and looks like a soldier.  I've seen a plainsman in Wyoming who'd have matched
him to a T all except the parted hair and the mustache."

"I like a mustache on a tall man."

"It suits Monty.  The first idea you get of him is strength--strength and gentleness;  and
it grows on you as you know him better.  It's not just muscles, nor yet will-power, but strength
that makes your heart flutter, and you know for a moment how a woman must feel when a fellow
asks her to be his wife.  That's Monty."

I got up and retraced a quarter of a mile, to wait for Fred where I could not accuse myself
of "listening in."

"Fred," I said, when he overtook me at last and we strode along side by side, "you were right.
America's way with a woman is beyond belief!"

I told him what I had heard, and he thought a while.

"How about Maga Jhaere's way, when she and Will and the Vanderman meet?" he said at last, smiling
grimly.

"TO-MORROW  WE  DIE"

All that is cynical;  all that refuses Trust in an altruist aim; Every specious plea that excuses
Greed in necessity's name; Studied indifference;  scorn that amuses; Cleverness, shifting the
blame; Selfishness, pitying trust it abuses-- Treason and these are the same. Finally, when
the last lees ye shall turn from (E'en intellectuals flinch in the end!) Ashes of loneliness
then ye shall learn from-- All that's worth keeping's the faith of a friend.

Never to be forgotten is that journey to Zeitoon.  We threaded toward the heart of opal mountains
along tracks that nothing on wheels--not even a wheel-barrow--could have followed.  Perpetually
on our right there kept appearing brilliant green patches of young rice, more full of livid
light than flawless emeralds.  And, as in all rice country, there were countless watercourses
with frequently impracticable banks along which fugitives felt their way miserably, too fearful
of pursuit to risk following the bridle track.

There is a delusion current that fugitives go fast.  But it stands to reason they do not; 
least of all, unarmed people burdened with children and odds and ends of hastily snatched household
goods. We found them hiding everywhere to sleep and rest lacerated feet, and there was not
a mile of all that distance that did not add twenty or thirty stragglers to our column, risen
at sight of us out of their lurking places.  We scared at least as many more into deeper hiding,
without blame to them, for there was no reason why they should know us at a distance from official
murderers.  Hamidieh regiments, the militia of that land, wear uniforms of their own choosing,
which is mostly their ordinary clothes and weapons added.

With snow-crowned Beirut Dagh frowning down over us, and the track growing every minute less
convenient for horse or man, word came from the rear that the hamidieh were truly on our trail.
Then we had our first real taste of what Armenians could do against drilled Turks, and even
before Fred and I could get in touch with Will and Gloria we realized that whether or not we
took part with them there was going to be no stampede by the men-folk.

Nothing would persuade Gloria to go on to Zeitoon and announce our coming.  Kagig came galloping
back and found us four met together by a little horsetail waterfall.  He ordered her peremptorily
to hurry and find Monty, but she simply ignored him.  In another moment he was too bent on
shepherding the ammunition cases to give her a further thought.

Men began to gather around him, and he to issue orders.  They had either to kill him or obey.
He struck at them with a rawhide whip, and spurred his horse savagely at every little clump
of men disposed to air their own views.

"You see," he laughed, "unanimity is lacking!"  Then his manner changed back to irritation.
"In the name of God, effendim, what manner of sportmen are you?  Will not each of you take
a dozen men and go and destroy those cursed Turks?"  (They call every man a Turk in that land
who thinks and acts like one, be he Turk, Arab, Kurd or Circassian.)

It was all opposed to the consul's plan, and lawless by any reckoning. To attack the troops
of a country with which our own governments were not at war was to put our heads in a noose
in all likelihood. Perhaps if he had called us by any other name than "sportmen" we might have
seen it in that light, and have told him to protect us according to contract.  But he used
the right word and we jumped at the idea, although Gloria, who had no notions about international
diplomacy, was easily first with her hat in the ring.

"I'll lead some men!" she shouted.  "Who'll follow me?"  Her voice rang clear with the virtue
won on college playing fields.

"Nothing to it!" Will insisted promptly.  "Here, you, Kagig--I'll make a bargain with you!"

"Watch!" Fred whispered.  "Will is now going to sell two comrades in the market for his first
love!  D'you blame him?  But it won't work!"

"Send Miss Vanderman to Zeitoon with an escort and we three--"

"What did I tell you?" Fred chuckled.

"--will fight for you all you like!"

But Gloria had a dozen men already swarming to her, with never a symptom of shame to be captained
by a woman;  and others were showing signs of inclination.  She turned her back on us, and
I saw three men hustle a fourth, who had both feet in bandages, until he gave her his rifle
and bandolier.  She tossed him a laugh by way of compensation, and be seemed content, although
he had parted with more than the equivalent of a fortune.

"That girl," said Kagig, from the vantage point of his great horse, "is like the brave Zeitoonli
wives!  They fight!  They can lead in a pinch!  They are as good as men--better than men, for
they think they know less!"

Fred swiftly gathered himself a company of his own, the older men electing to follow his lead.
Gloria had the cream of the younger ones--men who in an earlier age would have gone into battle
wearing a woman's glove or handkerchief--twenty or thirty youths blazing with the fire of youth.
Will went hot-foot after her with most of the English-speaking contingent from the mission
schools.  Kagig had the faithful few who had rallied to him from the first--the fighting men
of Zeitoon proper, including all the tough rear-guard who had sent the warning and remained
faithfully in touch with the enemy until their chief should come.

That left for me the men who knew no English, and Ephraim was enough of a politician to see
the advantage to himself of deserting Fred's standard for mine;  for Fred could talk Armenian,
and give his own orders, but I needed an interpreter.  I welcomed him at the first exchange
of compliments, but met him eye to eye a second later and began to doubt.

"I'm going to hold these men in reserve," I told him, "until I know where they'll do most good.
You know this country?  Take high ground, then, where we can overlook what's going on and get
into the fight to best advantage."

"But the others will get the credit," he began to object.

"I'll ask Kagig for another interpreter.  Wait here."

At that he yielded the point and explained my orders to the men, who began to obey them willingly
enough.  But he went on talking to them rapidly as we diverged from the path the others had
taken and ascended a trail that wild goats would have reveled in, along the right flank of
where fighting was likely to take place.  I did not doubt be was establishing notions of his
own importance, and with some success.

Firing commenced away in front and below us within ten minutes of the start, but it was an
hour before I could command the scene with field-glasses, and ten minutes after that before
I could make out the positions of our people, although the enemy were soon evident --a long,
irregular, ragged-looking line of cavalry thrusting lances into every hole that could possibly
conceal an Armenian, and an almost equally irregular line of unmounted men in front of them,
firing not very cautiously nor accurately from under random cover.

It became pretty evident, after studying the positions for about fifteen minutes and sweeping
every contour of the ground through glasses, that the enemy had no chance whatever of breaking
through unless they could outflank Kagig's line.  I held such impregnable advantage of height
and cover and clear view that the men I had with me were ample to prevent the turning of our
right wing.  Our left flank rested on the brawling Jihun River that wound in and out between
the rice fields and the rocky foot-hills.  There lay the weakness of our position, and more
than once I caught sight of Kagig spurring his horse from cover to cover to place his men.
Once I thought I recognized Fred, too, over near the river-bank;  but of Will or of Gloria
I saw nothing.

It was obvious that if reserves were needed anywhere it would be over on that left flank by
the fordable Jihun.  Ephraim saw that, and proceeded to preach it like gospel to the men before
consulting me.  Then, arrogant in the consciousness of majority approval, he came and advised me.

"Those--ah--hamidieh not coming this--ah--way.  We cross over to--ah --other side.  Then Kagig
is being pleased with us.  I give orders--yes?"

He did not propose to wait for my consent, but I detained him with a hand on his shoulder.
It would have taken us two hours to get into position by the river-bank.

"Find out how many of the men can ride," I ordered.

Taken by surprise he called out the inquiry without stopping to discover my purpose first.
It transpired there were seventeen men who had been accustomed to horseback riding since their
youth.  That would leave nine men for another purpose.  I separated sheep from goats, and made
over the nine to Ephraim.

"You and these nine stay here," I ordered, "and hold this flank until Kagig makes a move."
I did not doubt Kagig would fall back on Zeitoon as soon as he could do that with advantage.
Neither did I doubt Ephraim's ability to spoil my whole plan if be should see fit.  Yet I had
to depend on his powers as interpreter.

There are two ways of relieving a weak wing, and the obvious one of reenforcing it is not of
necessity the best.  I could see through the glasses a bowl of hollow grazing ground in which
the dismounted Kurds had left their horses;  and I could count only five men guarding them.
Most of the horses seemed to be tied head to head by the reins, but some were hobbled and grazing
close together.

"Tell these seventeen men I have chosen that I propose to creep up to the enemy's horses and
steal or else stampede them," I ordered.

Ephraim hesitated.  Glittering eyes betrayed fear to be left out of an adventure, disgust to
see his own advice ignored, and yet that he was alert to the advantage of being left with a
lone command.

"But we should--ah--cross to the--ah--other side and--ah--help Kagig," he objected.  Perhaps
he hoped to build political influence on the basis of his own account to Kagig afterward of
how be had argued for the saner course.

"Please explain what I have said--exactly!"

He continued to hesitate.  I could see the Kurdish riflemen responding to orders from their
rear and beginning to concentrate in the direction of our left wing.  Our center, where Gloria
and Will were probably concealed by rocks and foliage, poured a galling fire on them, and they
had to reform, and detach a considerable company to deal with that;  but two-thirds of their
number surged toward our left, and if my plan was to succeed almost the chief element was time.

"But Kagig will--"

One of the men had a hide rope, very likely looted from the village we had burned.  I took
it from him and tied a running noose in the end.  Then I made the other end fast to the roots
of a tree that had been rain-washed until they projected naked over fifty feet of sheer rock.

"Now," I said, "explain what I said, or I'll hang you in sight of both sides!"

I wondered whether he would not turn the tables and hang me.  I knew I would not have been
willing to lessen Kagig's chances by shooting any of them if they had decided to take Ephraim's
part.  But the politician in the man was uppermost and he did not force the issue.

"All right, effendi--oh, all right!" he answered, trying to laugh the matter off.

"Explain to them, then!"

I made him do it half a dozen times, for once we were on our way along the precipitous sides
of the hills the only control I should have would be force of example, aided to some extent
by the sort of primitive signals that pass muster even in a kindergarten. If they should talk
Turkish to me slowly I might understand a little here and there, but to speak it myself was
quite another matter; and in common with most of their countrymen, though they understood Turkish
perfectly and all that went with it, they would rather eat dirt than foul their months with
the language of the hated conqueror.

But, once explained, the plan was as obvious as the risk entailed, and they approved the one
as swiftly as they despised the other. The Kurds below were not oblivious to the risk of reprisals
from the hills, and we spent five minutes picking out the men posted to keep watch, making
careful note of their positions.  At the point where we decided to debouch on to the plain
there were two sentries taking matters fairly easy, and I told off four men to go on ahead
and attend to those as silently as might be.

Then we started--not close together, for the Kurds would certainly be looking out for an attack
from the hills in force, and would not be expecting individuals--but one at a time, two Armenians
leading, and the rest of them following me at intervals of more than fifty yards.

At the moment of starting I gave Ephraim another order, and within two hours owed my life and
that of most of my men to his disobedience.

"You stay here with your handful, and don't budge except as Kagig moves his line!  Few as you
are, you can hold this flank safe if you stay firm."

He stayed firm until the last of my seventeen had disappeared around the corner of the cliff;
and five minutes later I caught sight of him through the glasses, leading his following at
top speed downward along a spur toward the plain.  The Kurds on the lookout saw him too and,
concentrating their attention on him, did not notice us when we dodged at long intervals in
full sunlight across the face of a white rock.

There was little leading needed;  rather, restraining, and no means of doing it.  Instead of
keeping the formation in which we started off, those in the rear began to overtake the men
in front and, rather than disobey the order to keep wide intervals,  to extend down the face
of the hill, so that within fifteen minutes we were in wide-spaced skirmishing order.  Then,
instead of keeping along the hills, as I had intended, until we were well to the rear of the
Kurdish firing-line, they turned half-left too soon, and headed in diagonal bee line toward
the horses, those who had begun by leading being last now, and the last men first.  Being shorter-winded
than the rest of them and more tired to begin with, that arrangement soon left me a long way
in the rear, dodging and crawling laboriously and stopping every now and then to watch the
development of the battle.  There was little to see but the flash of rifles;  and they explained
nothing more than that the Kurds were forcing their way very close to our center and left wing.

Not all the fighting had been done that day under organized leadership. I stumbled at one place
and fell over the dead bodies of a Kurd and an Armenian, locked in a strangle-hold.  That Kurd
must have been bold enough to go pillaging miles in advance of his friends, for the two had
been dead for hours.  But the mutual hatred had not died off their faces, and they lay side
by side clutching each other's throats as if passion had continued after death.

The sight of Ephraim and his party hurrying across their front toward Kagig's weak left wing
had evidently convinced the Kurds that no more danger need be expected from their own left.
There can have been no other possible reason why we were unobserved, for the recklessness of
my contingent grew as they advanced closer to the horses, and from the rear I saw them brain
one outpost with a rock and rush in and knife another with as little regard for concealment
as if these two had been the only Kurds within eagle's view.  Yet they were unseen by the enemy,
and five minutes later we all gathered in the shelter of a semicircle of loose rocks, to regain
wind for the final effort.

"Korkakma!" I panted, using about ten per cent. of my Turkish vocabulary, and they laughed
so loud that I cursed them for a bunch of fools. But the man nearest me chose to illustrate
his feeling for Turks further by taking the corner of his jacket between thumb and finger and
going through the motions of squeezing off an insect--the last, most expressive gesture of
contempt.

The horses were within three hundred yards of us.  On rising ground between us and the Kurdish
firing-line was a little group of Turkish officers, and to our right beyond the horses was
miscellaneous baggage under the guard of Kurds, of whom more than half were wounded.  I could
see an obviously Greek doctor bandaging a man seated on an empty ammunition box.

But our chief danger was from the mounted scoundrels who were so busy murdering women and children
and wounded men half a mile away to the rear.  They had come along working the covert like
hunters of vermin, driving lances into every possible lurking place and no doubt skewering
their own wounded on occasion, for which Armenians would afterward be blamed.  We could hear
them chorusing with glee whenever a lance found a victim, or when a dozen of them gave chase
to some panic-stricken woman in wild flight.  Through the glasses I could see two Turkish officers
with them, in addition to their own nondescript "tin-plate men";  and if officers or men should
get sight of us it was easy to imagine what our fate would be.

That thought, and knowledge that Gloria Vanderman and Will and Fred were engaged in an almost
equally desperate venture within a mile of me (evidenced by dozens of wild bullets screaming
through the air) suggested the idea of taking a longer chance than any I had thought of yet.
A moment's consideration brought conviction that the effort would be worth the risk.  Yet I
had no way of communicating with my men!

I pointed to the Turkish officers clustered together watching the effort of their firing-line.
From where we lay to the horses would be three hundred yards;  from the horses to those officers
would be about two hundred and fifty yards farther at an angle of something like forty degrees.
Counting their orderlies and hangers-on we outnumbered that party by two to one;  and "the
fish starts stinking from the head" as the proverb says.  With the head gone, the whole Kurdish
firing-line would begin to be useless.

I tried my stammering Turkish, but the men were in no mood to be patient with efforts in that
loathly tongue.  None of them knew a word in English.  I tried French--Italian--smattering
Arabic--but they only shook their heads, and began to think nervousness was driving me out
of hand.  One of them laid a soothing hand on my shoulder, and repeated what sounded like a prayer.

To lose the confidence of one's men under such circumstances at that stage of the game was
too much.  I grew really rattled, and at random, as a desperate man will I stammered off what
I wanted to say in the foreign tongue that I knew best, regardless of the fact that Armenians
are not black men, and that there is not even a trace of connection between their language
and anything current in Africa.  Zanzibar and Armenia are as far apart as Australia and Japan,
with about as much culture in common.

To my amazement a man answered in fluent Kiswahili!  He had traded for skins in some barbarous
district near the shore of Victoria Nyanza, and knew half a dozen Bantu languages.  In a minute
after that we had the plan well understood and truly laid;  and, what was better, they had
ceased to believe me a victim of nerves--a fact that gave me back the nerve that had been perilously
close to vanishing.

We paid no more attention to the firing-line, nor to the mounted Kurds who were drawing the
coverts nearer and nearer to us.  It was understood that we were to sacrifice ourselves for
our friends, and do the utmost damage possible before being overwhelmed.  We shook hands solemnly.
Two or three men embraced each other.  The five who by common consent were reckoned the best
rifle shots lay down side by side with me among the rocks, and the remainder began crawling
out one by one on their stomachs toward the horses, with instructions to take wide open order
as quickly as possible, with the idea of making the Kurds believe our numbers were greater
than they really were.

When I judged they were half-way toward the horses we six opened fire on the Turkish officers.
And every single one of us missed! At the sound of our volley the devoted horse-thieves rose
to their feet and rushed on the horse-guards, forgetting to fire on them from sheer excitement,
and as a matter of fact one of them was shot dead by a horse-guard before the rest remembered
they had deadly weapons of their own.

I remedied the first outrageous error to a slight extent by killing the Turkish colonel's orderly,
missing the commander himself by almost a yard.  My five men all missed with their second shots,
and then it was too late to pull off the complete coup we had dared to hope for.  The entire
staff took cover, and started a veritable hail of fire with their repeating pistols, all aimed
at us, and aimed as wildly as our own shots had been.

Meanwhile the mounted Kurds at the rear had heard the firing and were coming on full pelt,
yelling like red Indians.  I could see, in the moment I snatched for a hurried glance in that
direction, that the purpose of cutting loose and stampeding the horses was being accomplished;
but even that comparatively simple task required time, and as the Kurds galloped nearer, the
horses grew as nervous as the men who sought to loose them.

But conjecture and all caution were useless to us six bent on attacking the colonel and his
staff.  We crawled out of cover and advanced, stopping to fire one or two shots and then scrambling
closer, giving away our own paucity of numbers, but increasing the chance of doing damage with
each yard gained.  And our recklessness had the additional advantage of making the staff reckless
too.  The colonel kept in close hiding, but the rest of them began dodging from place to place
in an effort to outflank us from both sides, and I saw four of them bowled over within a minute.
Then the remainder lay low again, and we resumed the offensive.

The next thing I remember was hearing a wild yell as our party seized a horse apiece and galloped
off in front of the oncoming Kurds--straight toward Kagig's firing-line.  That, and the yelling
of the horsemen in pursuit drew the attention of the riflemen attacking Kagig to the fact that
most of their horses were running loose and that there was imminent danger to their own rear.
I only had time to get a glimpse of them breaking back, for the Turkish colonel got my range
and sent a bullet ripping down the length of the back of my shooting jacket.  That commenced
a duel----he against me--each missing as disgracefully as if we were both beginners at the
game of life or death, and I at any rate too absorbed to be aware of anything but my own plight
and of oceans of unexplained noise to right and left. I knew there were galloping horses, and
men yelling;  but knowledge that the Turkish military rifle I was using must be wrongly sighted,
and that my enemy had no such disadvantage, excluded every other thought.

I had used about half the cartridges in my bandolier when a Kurd's lance struck me a glancing
blow on the back of the head.  His horse collapsed on top of me, as some thundering warrior
I did not see gave the stupendous finishing stroke to rider and beast at once.

There followed a period of semi-consciousness filled with enormous clamor, and upheavings,
and what might have been earthquakes for lack of any other reasonable explanation, for I felt
myself being dragged and shaken to and fro.  Then, as the weight of the fallen horse was rolled
aside there surged a tide of blissful relief that carried me over the border of oblivion.

When I recovered my senses I was astride of Rustum Khan's mare, with a leather thong around
my shoulders and the Rajput's to keep me from falling.  We were proceeding at an easy walk
in front of a squadron of ragged-looking irregulars whom I did not recognize, toward the center
of the position Kagig had held.  Kagig's men were no longer in hiding, but standing about in
groups;  and presently I caught sight of Fred and Will and Kagig standing together, but not
Gloria Vanderman.  A cough immediately behind us made me turn my head. The Turkish colonel,
who had fought the ridiculously futile duel with me, was coming along at the mare's tail with
his hands tied behind him and a noose about his neck made fast to one of the saddle-rings.

"Much obliged, Rustum Khan!" I said by way of letting him know I was alive.  "How did you get
here?"

"Ha, sahib!  Not going to die, then?  That is good!  I came because Colonel Lord Montdidier
sahib sent me with a squadron of these mountain horsemen--fine horsemen they are--fit by the
breath of Allah to draw steel at a Rajput's back!"

"He sent you to find me?"

"Ha, sahib.  To rescue you alive if that were possible."

"How did he know where I was?"

"An Armenian by name of Ephraim came and said you had gone over to the Turks.  Certain men
he had with him corroborated, but three of his party kept silence.  My lord sahib answered
'I have hunted, and camped, and fought beside that man--played and starved and feasted with
him.  No more than I myself would he go over to Turks.  He must have seen an opportunity to
make trouble behind the Turks' backs.

"Where is Lord Montdidier now?"

"Who knows, sahib.  Wherever the greatest need at the moment is."

"Tell me what has happened."

"You did well, sahib.  The loosing of the horses and the shooting behind their backs put fear
into the Kurds.  They ceased pressing on our left wing.  And I--watching from behind cover
on the right wing--snatched that moment to outflank them, so that they ran pell-mell. Then
I saw the mounted Kurds charging up from the rear, and guessed at once where you were, sahib.
The Kurds were extended, and my men in close order, so I charged and had all the best of it,
arriving by God's favor in the nick of time for you, sahib.  Then I took this colonel prisoner.
Only once in my life have I seen a greater pile than his of empty cartridge cases beside one
man.  That was the pile beside you, sahib!  How many men did you kill, and he kill?  And who
buried them?"

"Where is Miss Vanderman?" I asked, turning the subject.

"God knows!  What do I know of women?  Only I know this:  that there is a gipsy woman bred
by Satan out of sin itself, who will make things hot for any second filly in this string! 
Woe and a woman are one!"

Not caring to listen to the Indian's opinions of the other sex any more than he would have
welcomed mine about the ladies of his own land, I made out my injuries were worse than was
the case, and groaned a little, and grew silent.

So we rode without further conversation up to where Fred and Will were standing with Kagig,
and as I tumbled off into Fred's arms I was greeted with a chorus of welcome that included
Gloria's voice.

"That's what I call using your bean!" she laughed, in the slangy way she had whenever Will
had the chance to corrupt her Boston manners.

"It feels baked," I said.  "I used it to stop a Kurd's lance with. Hullo!   What's the matter
with you?"

"I stopped a bullet with my forearm!"

She was sitting in a sort of improvised chair between two dwarfed tree-trunks, and if ever
I saw a proud young woman that was she. She wore the bloody bandage like a prize diploma.

"And I've seen your friend Monty, and he's better than the accounts of him!"

I glanced at Will, alert for a sign of jealousy.

"Monty is the one best bet!" he said.  And his eyes were generous and level, as a man's who
tells the whole truth.

Chapter Fourteen "Rajput, I shall hang you if you make more trouble!"

"LO,  THIS IS THE MAN--"
                  (Psalm 52)

Choose, ye forefathers of to-morrow, choose! These easy ways there be Uncluttered by the wrongs
each other bears, And warmly we shall walk who can not see How thin some other fellow's garment
wears, Nor need to notice whose.

Choose, ye stock-owners in to-morrow, choose! The road these others tread Is littered deep
with jetsam and the bones Of their dishonored dead. What altruism for defeat atones? Have ye
not much to lose?

Choose, ye inheritors of ages, choose! What owe ye to the past? The burly men who Magna Charta
wrung >From tyranny entrenched would stand aghast To see the ripples from that stone they flung,
They, too, had selfish views.

Choose, ye investors in the future, choose! Ye need pick cautious odds; To-morrow's fruit is
seeded down to-day, And unwise purpose like the unknown gods Tempts on a wasteful way. "Ware
well what guide ye use!

We went and bivouacked by the brawling Jihun under a roof of thatch, whose walls were represented
by more or less upright wooden posts and debris;  for Kagig would not permit anything to stand
even for an hour that Turks could come and fortify.  None of us believed that the repulse of
that handful of Kurdish plunderers and the capture of a Turkish colonel would be the end of
hostilities--rather the beginning.

Kagig, when Gloria asked him what he proposed to do with Rustum Khan's prisoner, smiled cynically
and ordered him searched by two of the Zeitoonli standing guard.  Rustum Khan was standing
just out of low ear-shot absorbed in contemplation of the lie of the country.  I noticed that
Fred began to look nervous, but he did not say anything. Will was too busy fussing with Gloria's
wound, making a new bandage for it and going through the quite unnecessary motions of keeping
up her spirits, to observe any other phenomena.  An Armenian woman named Anna, who had attached
herself to Gloria because, she said, her husband and children had been killed and she might
as well serve as weep, sat watching the two of them with quiet amusement.

The Turk offered no further objection than a shrug of his fatalist shoulders and a muttered
remark about Ermenie and bandits.  Even when the mountaineers laughed at the chink of stolen
money in all his pockets he did not exhibit a trace of shame.  They shook him, and pawed him,
and poured out gold in little heaps on the ground (out of the magnanimity of his official heart
he had doubtless left all silver coin for his hamidieh to pouch);  but Kagig only had eyes
for the papers they pulled out of his inner pocket and tossed away. He pounced on them.

"Hah!" he laughed.  "There!  Did I tell you?  These are his orders --signed by a governor's
secretary--countersigned by the governor himself--to 'set forth with his troops and rescue
Armenians in the Zeitoon district.'  Rescue them!  Have you seen?  Did you observe his noble
rescue work?  Here--see the orders for yourselves!  Observe how the Stamboulis propose to prove
their innocence after the event!"

Since they were written in Turkish they were of no conceivable use to any one but Fred and
Rustum Khan.  Fred glanced over them, and shouted to Rustum Khan to come and look.  That was
a mistake, for it called the Rajput's attention to what had been happening to his prisoner.
He came striding toward us with his black beard bristling and eyes blazing with anger.

"Who searched him?" he demanded.

"He was searched by my order," Kagig answered in the calm level voice that in a man of such
spirit was prophetic of explosion.

"Who gave thee leave to order him searched, Armenian?"

"I left you his money," Kagig answered with biting scorn, pointing to the little heaps of gold
coin on the ground. 

Depending on the necessities, or the routine, of the various parties, the shops remain shut,
and the workmen resting, for a shorter or longer period. Life takes a month to become its old
self, in Canton, usually. 
WELCOMING THE SPRING  But Will saw matters in another light, and Fred began
humming through his nose.  Will left Gloria and walked straight up to Rustum Khan.  He had
managed to shave himself with cold Jihun water and some laundry soap, and his clean jaw suggested
standards set up and sworn to since ever they gave the name of Yankee to men possessed by certain
high ideals.

"Kagig needs no leave from any one to order prisoners searched!" he said, shaping each word
distinctly.

Rustum Khan spluttered, and kicked at a heap of coin.

"Perhaps you have bargained for your share of all loot?  I have heard that in America men--"

'Rajput!" said Kagig, looking down on him from slightly higher ground, "I will hang you if
you make more trouble!"

At that I interfered.  I was not the only one in Rustum Khan's debt; it was likely his brilliant
effort at the critical moment had saved our whole fighting line.  Besides, I saw the Turk grinning
to himself with satisfaction at the rift in our good will.

"Suppose we refer this dispute to Monty," I proposed, reasoning that if it should ever get
as far as Monty, tempers would have died away meanwhile.  Not that Monty could not have handled
the problem, tempers and all.

"I refer no points of honor," growled the Rajput. "I have been insulted."

"Rot!" exclaimed Fred, getting to his feet.  When his usually neat beard has not been trimmed
for a day or two he looks more truculent than he really is.  "I've been listening.  The insolence
was on the other side."

"Do you deny Kagig's right to question prisoners?" I asked, thinking I saw a way out of the mess.

"Can I not question him?" Rustum Khan turned on me with a gesture that made it clear he held
me to no friendship on account of service rendered.

He strode toward his prisoner, with heaven knows what notion in his head, but Fred interposed
himself.  The likeliest thing at that moment was a blow by one or the other that would have
banished any chance of a returning reign of reason.  Rustum Khan turned his back to the Turk
and thrust out his chest toward Fred as if daring him to strike. Even the kites seemed to expect
bloodshed and circled nearer.

It was Gloria who cut the Gordian knot.  It was her unwounded hand, not Fred's, that touched
the Rangar's breast.

"Rustum Khan," she said, "I think better of you than to believe you would take advantage of
our ignorance.  You're a soldier.  We are only civilians trying to help a tortured nation.
We know nothing of Rajput customs.  Won't you go to Lord Montdidier and tell him about it,
and ask him to decide?  We'll all obey Monty, you know."

Rustum Khan looked down at her bandaged wrist, and then into violet eyes that were not in the
least degree afraid of him but only looking diligently for the honor he so boasted.

"Who can refuse a beautiful young woman?" he said, beginning to melt. But he refused to meet
her eyes again, or even to acknowledge our existence.

"I give you the prisoner!"  He made her a motion of arrogant extravagance with his right hand
as if performing the act of transfer.  Then he turned on his heel with a little simultaneous
mock salute, and striding to his bay mare, mounted and rode away.

Kagig took over the prisoner at once without comment and began to question him under a tree
twenty yards away, paying no attention to the riflemen who matched one another, laughing, for
the plundered money. We four went back to the shelter of the thatch roof, for the plan was
to remain behind with the company of Zeitoonli whom Kagig had placed carefully at vantage points,
and give stragglers a chance to save themselves before we resumed the journey to Zeitoon.

Naturally enough, Rustum Khan and his fiery unreason was the subject we discussed, and Fred
laid law down as to how he should be dealt with whenever the chance should come to bring him
to book.  But Rustum Khan was a bagatelle compared to what was coming, if we had only known
it.  While we talked I saw Gregor Jhaere, the attaman of gipsies, ride down the track on a
brown mule and dismount within ten yards of Kagig.  He hobbled his mule, and went and sat close
by Kagig and the Turk, engaging in a three-cornered talk with them.  Kagig seemed to have expected
him, for there was no sign of greeting or surprise.

There was nothing disturbing about Gregor's arrival on the scene; he was evidently helping
Kagig to cross-examine the Turk and check up facts.  Within their limits gipsies are about
the best spies obtainable because of their ability to take advantage of credulity and their
own immeasurable unbelief in protest or appearances.  It was the individual who followed Gregor
at a distance, and dismounted from a gray stallion quite a long way off in order not to draw
attention to herself, who made my blood turn cold.  I caught sight of Maga Jhaere first because
the others had their backs toward her.  Then the expression of my face brought Fred to his
feet.  By that time Magi had vanished out of view unaware that any one had seen her, creeping
like a pantheress from rock to rock.

"What's the matter?" Fred demanded, sitting down again, ill-tempered with himself for being
startled.

"Maga Jhaere!"

"How exciting!" said Gloria.  "I'm crazy to meet her."

But Will looked less excited and more anxious than I had ever seen him, and we all three laughed.

"All right!" he said.  "I tell you it's no joke.  That woman believes she's got her hooks in."

We tried to go on talking naturally, but lapsed into uncomfortable silence as the minutes dragged
by and no Maga put in her appearance. Fred began humming through his nose again in that ridiculous
way that he thinks seems unconcerned, but that makes his best friends yearn to smite him hip
and thigh.

"I guess you were mistaken," Will said at last, spreading out his shoulders with relief at
the mere suggestion.  But I was facing the direction of Zeitoon, as he was not, and again the
expression of my face betrayed the facts.

There were two large stones leaning together, with a small triangular gap between them, less
than thirty feet from where we sat.  In that gap I could see a pair of eyes, and nothing else.
They had almost exactly the expression of a panther's that is stalking, not its quarry, but
its mortal foe.  In spite of having seen Maga approaching, I would have believed them an animal's
eyes, only that from experience I knew an animal's eyes betray fear and anger without reason,
whereas these blazed with the desperate reasoning that holds fear in contempt. Panthers can
hate, be afraid, sweep fear aside with anger, and plan painstakingly for murderous attack;
but it is only behind human eyes that one may recognize the murder--purpose based on argument.

"I see her," I said.  "I suspect she's got a pistol, and--"

I had not known until that moment that the short hair was standing up the back of my head,
but I felt it go down with a creepy cold chill as I spoke.  Then once more it rose.  Knowing
she was seen and recognized, Maga got to her feet and stood on the larger of the two stones,
looking down on us.  Her hands were on her hips, and I could see no weapon, but her lips moved
in voiceless imprecation.

"Are you Maga Jhaere?" asked Gloria, first of us all to recover some measure of self-command.

Maga nodded.  She was barefooted, clothed only in bodice and leather jacket and a rather short
ochre-colored skirt that blew in the gaining wind and showed the outline of her lithe young
figure.  Her long black hair billowed and galloped in the wind behind her.

"I am Maga Jhaere," she said slowly, addressing Gloria.  "Who are you?"

"My name is Gloria Vanderman."

"And that man beside you--who is he?"

Gloria did not answer.  Will looked more embarrassed than the devil caught in daylight, and
Fred recovered his mental equilibrium sufficiently to chuckle.

"Is he your husband?"

"No."

"Then what you want with 'im?"

No one said a word.  Only, Fred made a movement with his hand behind him that Maga noticed
and spurned with a toss of her chin.

"You coming to Zeitoon?"

Gloria nodded.  Glancing over toward Kagig I saw that he was aware of Maga and was watching
her out of the corner of his eye while he talked with Gregor and the Turk.  They were both
getting angry with the Turk and using gestures suggestive of impending agony by way of emphasis.
The Turk was growing fidgety.

Maga spread her arms out as if she were embracing all the universe and called it hers.

"Then--if you ar-re coming to Zeitoon--you choose first a 'usband. There are--many 'usbands.
Some 'ave lost a wife--some 'ave sick wife--some not yet never 'ad no wife.  Plenty Armenians--also
two other men there--but you let that one--Will--alone!  Choose a 'usband --marry,'im--then
you come to Zeitoon!  If you come without a 'usband --I will keel you--do you understand?"

"Now then, America!" grinned Fred in a stage aside that Maga could hear as clearly as if it
had been intended for her.  "Let's see the eagle scream for liberty!"

"Eagle scream?" said Maga, almost screaming herself.  "What you know about eagles?  You ol'
fool!  That man Will is thinking you ar-re 'is frien'.  You ar-re not 'is frien'!  Let 'im
come with me, an' I will show 'im what ar-re eagles--what is freedom--what is knowledge --what
is life!  I know.  You ol' fool, you not know!  You ol' fool, you marry that woman--then you
can bring 'er to Zeitoon an' she is safe!  Otherwise--"

She reached in the bosom of her blouse and drew out, not the mother-o'-pearl-plated pistol
that I feared, but a knife with an eighteen-inch blade of glittering steel.  Instantly Fred
covered her with his own repeater, but she laughed in his face.

"You ol' fool, you ar-re afraid to shoot me!"

If she meant that Fred would feel squeamish about shooting before she hurled the knife, then
she was certainly right.  But she knew better than to make one preliminary motion.  And Kagig
knew better than to permit further pleasantries.  I saw him whisper to Gregor, and the gipsy
attaman started on hands and knees to creep round behind her.  But Maga's eyes were practised
like those of all other wild creatures in detecting movement behind her as well as in front.
She spat, and gave vent to a final ultimatum.

"You 'ave 'eard.  I said--you let that man Will Yerr-kees alone! An' don't you dare come to
Zeitoon without a 'usband!"

Then she turned and dodged Gregor, and ran for her gray stallion--mounted the savage brute
with a leap from six feet away, and rode like the wind toward the gut of the pass that shut
off Zeitoon from our view. A minute later a shell from a small-bore cannon screamed overhead,
and burst a hundred yards beyond us on a sheet of rock.

"Not bad for a ranging shot!" said Fred, suddenly as self-possessed as if the world never held
such a thing as an untamed woman.

"Observe, you sportmen all!" Kagig exclaimed, getting to his feet. "The Turkish nobility are
proceeding to rescue poor Armenians.  Behold, their charity comes even from the cannon's mouth!
It is time to go now, lest it overtake us!  No cannon can come in sight of Zeitoon. Follow me."

With his usual sudden oblivion of everything but the main objective Kagig mounted and rode
away, followed by Gregor in charge of the prisoner, and by a squadron or so of mounted Zeitoonli
who attempted no formation but came cantering as each detachment realized that their leader
was on the move.  We found ourselves last, without an armed man between us and the enemy, although
without a doubt there were still dozens of fugitive poor wretches who had not had the courage
or perhaps the strength to overtake us yet.

Kagig had had the forethought to leave comparatively fresh mules for us to ride, and there
was not any particular reason for hurry. Will went ahead, with Gloria and Anna beside him on
one mule--Gloria laughing him out of countenance because of his nervousness on her account,
but he insistent on the danger in case of repeated gun-fire. Fred rode slowly beside me in
the rear, for we still hoped to encourage a few stray fugitives to come out of their hiding
holes and follow us to safety.

A second cannon shot, not nearly so well aimed as the first had been, went screaming over toward
our left and landed without bursting among low bushes.  A third and a fourth followed it, and
the last one did explode.  That was plainly too much for some one who had dodged into hiding
when the second shot fell;  we saw him come rushing out from cover like a lunatic, unconscious
of direction and only intent on shielding the top of his head with his hands.

"Is the poor devil hurt?" I said, wondering.  But Fred broke into a roar of laughter; and he
is not a heartless man--merely gifted more than usual with the hunter's eye that recognizes
sex and species of birds and animals at long range.  I can see farther than Fred can, but at
recognizing details swiftly I am a blind bat compared to him.

"The martyred biped!" he laughed.  "Peter Measel by the God of happenings!"

We rode over toward him, and Peter it was, running with his eyes shut.  He screamed when we
stopped him, and sobbed instead of talking when we pulled him in between our mules and offered
him two stirrup leathers to hold.  He seemed to think that standing between the mules would
protect him from the artillery fire, and as we were not in any hurry we took advantage of that
delusion to let him recover a modicum of nerve.

And the moment that began to happen he was the same sweet Peter Measel with the same assurance
of every other body's wickedness and his own divinity, only with something new in his young
life to add poignancy.

"What were you doing there?" demanded Fred, as we got him to towing along between us at last.

"I was looking for her."

"For whom?"

"For Maga Jhaere."

Fred allowed his ribs to shake in silent laughter that annoyed the mule, and we had to catch
Measel all over again because the beast's crude objections filled the martyred biped full of
the desire to run.

"Somebody must save that girl!" he panted.  "And who else can do it?  Who else is there?"

"There's only you!" Fred agreed, choking down his mirth.

"I'm glad you agree with me.  At least you have that much blessedness, Mr. Fred.  D'you know
that girl was willing to be a murderess?  Yes! She tried to murder Rustum Khan.  Rustum Khan
ought to be hanged, for he is a villain--a black villain!  But she must not have blood on her
hands--no, no!"

"Why didn't she murder him?" demanded Fred.  "Qualms at the last moment?"

"No.  I'm sorry to say no.  She has no God-likeness yet.  But that will come.  She will repent.
I shall see to that.  It was I who prevented her, and she all but murdered me!  She would have
murdered me, but Kagig held her wrist;  and to punish her he gave an order that I should preach
to her morning, afternoon, and evening--three times a day.  So I had my opportunity.  There
was a guard of gipsy women set to see that she obeyed."

"Continue," said Fred.  "What happened?"

"She broke away, and came down to see the fighting."

"Why did you follow her?  Weren't you afraid?"

"Oh, Mr. Fred, if you only knew!  Yet I felt impelled to find her. I could not trust her out
of sight."

"Why not? She seems fairly well able to look after herself."

"Oh, I can not allow wickedness.  I must make it to cease!  It entered my head that she intended
to find Kagig!"

"Well?  Why not?"

"Oh, Mr. Fred--tell me!  You may know--you perhaps as well as any one, for you are such an
ungodly man!  What are her relations with Kagig?  Does he--is he--is there wickedness between
them?"

"Dashed if I know.  She's a gipsy.  He's a fine half-savage.  Why should it concern you?"

"Oh, I could not endure it!  It would break my heart to believe it!"

"Then why think about it?"

"How can I help it?  I love her!  Oh, I love her, Mr. Fred!  I never loved a woman in all my
life before.  It would break my heart if she were to be betrayed into open sin by Kagig!  Oh,
what shall I do?  What shall I do?  I love her!  What shall I do?"

"Do?" said Fred, looking forward in imagination to new worlds of humor, "why--make love, if
you love her!  Make hot love and strong!"

"Will you help me, Mr. Fred?" the biped stammered.  "You see, she's rather wild--a little unconventional--and
I've never made love even to a sempstress.  Will you help me?"

"Certainly!" Fred chuckled.  "Certainly.  I'll guarantee to marry her to you if you'll dig
up the courage.  Have you a ring?"

Peter Measel produced a near-gold ring with a smirk almost of recklessness, a plain gold ring
whose worn appearance called to mind the finger taken from a dead Kurd's cartridge pouch. 
It may be that Measel bought it, but neither Fred nor I spoke to him again, for half an hour.

Chapter Fifteen "Scenery to burst the heart!"

THE  REBEL'S  HYMN

The seeds that swell within enwrapping mould, Gray buds that color faintly in the northing
sun, Deep roots that lengthen after winter's rest, The flutter of year's youth in April's breast
As young leaves in the warming hour unfold-- These and my heart are one!

Go dam the river-course with carted earth; Or bind with iron bands that riven stone That century
on century has slept Until into its heart a tendril crept, And in the quiet majesty of birth
New nature broke into her own! Or bid the sun stand still!  Or fashion wings To herd the heaven's
stars and make them be Subservient to will and rule and whim! Or rein the winds, and still
the ocean's hymn! More surely ye shall manage all these things Than chain the Life in me!

Great mountains shedding the reluctant snow, Vision of the finish of the thing begun, Spirit
of the beauty of the torrent's song, Unconquerable peal of carillon, And secrets that in conquest
overflow-- These and my heart are one!

Yet another night we were destined to spend on the Zeitoon road, for we had not the heart to
leave behind us the stragglers who balked fainting in the gut of the pass.  Some were long
past the stage where anything less than threats could make impression on them, and only able
to go forward in a dull dream at the best.  But there were numbers of both men and women unexpectedly
capable of extremes of heroism, who took the burden of misery upon themselves and exhibited
high spirits based on no evident excuse.  Nothing could overwhelm those, nothing discourage them.

"To Zeitoon!" somebody shouted, as if that were the very war-cry of the saints of God.  Then
in a splendid bass voice he began to sing a hymn, and some women joined him.  So Fred Oakes
fell to his old accustomed task, and played them marching accompaniments on his concertina
until his fingers ached and even he, the enthusiast, loathed the thing's bray.  In one way
and another a little of the pall of misery was lifted.

Kagig sent us down bread and yoghourt at nightfall, so that those who had lived thus far did
not die of hunger.  Women brought the food on their heads in earthen crocks--splendid, good-looking
women with fearless eyes, who bore the heavy loads as easily as their mountain men-folk carried
rifles.  They did not stay to gossip, for we had no news but the stale old story of murder
and plunder;  and their news was short and to the point.

"Come along to Zeitoon!" was the burden of it, carried with a singsong laugh.  "Zeitoon is
ready for anything!"

Before we had finished eating, each two of them gathered up a poor wretch from our helpless
crowd and strode away into the mountains with a heavier load than that they brought.

"Come along to Zeitoon!" they called back to us.  But even Fred's concertina, and the hymns
of the handful who were not yet utterly spent, failed to get them moving before dawn.

We did not spend the night unguarded, although no armed men lay between us and the enemy. 
We could hear the Kurds shouting now and then, and once, when I climbed a high rock, I caught
sight of the glow of their bivouac fires.  Imagination conjured up the shrieks of tortured
victims, for we had all seen enough of late to know what would happen to any luckless straggler
they might have caught and brought to make sport by the fires.  But there was no imagination
about the calls of Kagig's men, posted above us on invisible dark crags and ledges to guard
against surprise.  We slept in comfortable consciousness that a sleepless watch was being kept--until
fleas came out of the ground by battalions, divisions and army corps, making rest impossible.

But even the flea season was a matter of indifference to the hapless folk who lay around us,
and although we fussed and railed we could not persuade them to go forward before dawn broke.
Then, though, they struggled to their feet and started without argument.  But an hour after
the start we reached the secret of the safety of Zeitoon, without which not even the valor
of its defenders could have withstood the overwhelming numbers of the Turks for all those scores
of years; and there was new delay.

The gut of the pass rose toward Zeitoon at a sharp incline--a ramp of slippery wet clay, half
a mile long, reaching across from buttress to buttress of the impregnable hills.  It was more
than a ridden mule could do to keep its feet on the slope, and we had to dismount. It was almost
as much as we ourselves could do to make progress with the aid of sticks, and we knew at last
what Kagig had meant by his boast that nothing on wheels could approach his mountain home.
The poor wretches who had struggled so far with us simply gave up hope and sat down, proposing
to die there.  The martyred biped copied them, except that they were dry-eyed and he shed tears.
"To think that I should come to this--that I should come to this!" he sobbed. Yet the fool
must have come down by that route, and have gone up that way once.

We should have been in a quandary but for the sound of axes ringing in the mountain forest
on our left--a dense dark growth of pine and other evergreens commencing about a hundred feet
above the naked rock that formed the northerly side of the gorge.  Where there were axes at
work there was in all likelihood a road that men could march along, and our refugees sat down
to let us do the prospecting.

"It would puzzle Napoleon to bring cannon over this approach, and the Turks don't breed Napoleons
nowadays!" Fred shouted cheerily. "Give me a hundred good men and I'll hold this pass forever!
Wait here while I scout for a way round."

He tried first along the lower edge of the line of timber, encouraged by ringing axes, falling
trees, and men shouting in the distance.

"It looks as if there once had been a road here," he shouted down to us, "but nothing less
than fire would clear it now, and everything is sopping wet.  I never saw such a tangle of
roots and rocks.  A dog couldn't get thought!"

Will volunteered to cross to the right-hand side and hunt over there for a practicable path.
Gloria stayed beside me, and I had my first opportunity to talk with her alone.  She was very
pale from the effects of the wound in her wrist, which was painful enough to draw her young
face and make her eyes burn feverishly.  Even so, one realized that as an old woman she would
still be beautiful.

I watched the eagles for a minute or two, wondering what to say to her, and she did not seem
to object to silence, so that I forced an opening at last as clumsily as Peter Measel might
have done it.

"What is it about Will that makes all women love him?"  I asked her.

"Oh, do they all love him?"

"Looks like it!" said I.

She still wore the bandolier they had stripped from the man with the bandaged feet, although
Will had relieved her of the rifle's weight.  To the bottom of the bandolier she had tied the
little bag of odds and ends without which few western women will venture a mile from home.
Opening that she produced a small round mirror about twice the size of a dollar piece, and
offered it to me with a smile that disarmed the rebuke.

"Perhaps it's his looks," she suggested.

I took the mirror and studied what I saw in it.  In spite of a cracking headache due to that
and the gaining sun (for I had lost my hat when the Kurd rode me down with his lance) the episode
of Rustum Khan carrying me back out of death's door on his bay mare had not lingered in memory.
There had been too much else to think about.  Now for the first time I realized how near that
lance-point must have come to finishing the chapter for me.  I had washed in the Jihun when
we bivouacked, but had not shaved;  later on, my scalp had bled anew, so that in addition to
unruly hair tousled and matted with dry blood I had a week-old beard to help make me look like
a graveyard ghoul.

"I beg pardon!" I said simply, handing her the mirror back.

At that she was seized with regret for the unkindness, and utterly forgot that I had blundered
like a bullock into the sacred sanctuary of her newborn relationship to Will.

"Oh, I don't know which of you is best!" she said, taking my hand with her unbandaged one.
"You are great unselfish splendid men. Will has told me all about you!  The way you have always
stuck to your friend Monty through thick and thin--and the way you are following him now to
help these tortured people--oh, I know what you are--Will has told me, and I'm proud--"

The embarrassment of being told that sort of thing by a young and very lovely woman, when newly
conscious of dirt and blood and half-inch-long red whiskers, was apparently not sufficient
for the mirth of the exacting gods of those romantic hills.  There came interruption in the
form of a too-familiar voice.

"Oh, that's all right, you two!  Make the most of it!  Spoon all you want to!  My girl's in
the clutches of an outlaw!  Kiss her if you want to--I won't mind!"

I dropped her hand as if it were hot lead.  As a matter of fact I had hardly been conscious
of holding it.

"Oh, no, don't mind me!" continued the "martyred biped" in a tone combining sarcasm, envy and
impudence.

"Shall I kill him?" I asked.

"No! no!" she said. "Don't be violent--don't--"

Peter Measel, whom we had inevitably utterly forgotten, was sitting up with his back propped
against a stone and his legs stretched straight in front of him, enjoying the situation with
all the curiosity of his unchastened mind.  I hove a lump of clay at him, but missed, and the
effort made my headache worse.

"If you think you can frighten me into silence you're mistaken!" he sneered, getting up and
crawling behind the rock to protect himself. But it needed more than a rock to hide him from
the fury that took hold of me and sent me in pursuit in spite of Gloria's remonstrance.

Viewed as revenge my accomplishment was pitiful, for I had to chase the poor specimen for several
minutes, my headache growing worse at every stride, and he yelling for mercy like a cur-dog
shown the whip, while the Armenians--women and little children as well as men--looked on with
mild astonishment and Gloria objected volubly. He took to the clay slope at last in hope that
his light weight would give him the advantage;  and there at last I caught him, and clapped
a big gob of clay in his mouth to stop his yelling.

Even viewed as punishment the achievement did not amount to much. I kicked him down the clay
slope, and he was still blubbering and picking dirt out of his teeth when Will shouted that
he had found a foot-track.

"Do you understand why you've been kicked?" I demanded.

"Yes.  You're afraid I'll tell Mr. Yerkes!"

"Oh, leave him!" said Gloria.  "I'm sorry you touched him.  Let's go!"

"It was as much your fault as his, young woman!" snarled the biped, getting crabwise out of
my reach.  "You'll all be sorry for this before I'm through with you!"

I was sorry already, for I had had experience enough of the world to know that decency and
manners are not taught to that sort of specimen in any other way than by letting him go the
length of his disgraceful course.  Carking self-contempt must be trusted to do the business
for him in the end.  Gloria was right in the first instance.  I should have let him alone.

However, it was not possible to take his threat seriously, and more than any man I ever met
he seemed to possess the knack of falling out of mind.  One could forget him more swiftly than
the birds forget a false alarm.  I don't believe any of us thought of him again until that
night in Zeitoon.

The path Will had discovered was hardly a foot wide in places, and mules could only work their
way along by rubbing hair off their flanks against the rock wall that rose nearly sheer on
the right hand. >From the point of view of an invading army it was no approach at all, for
one man with a rifle posted on any of the overhanging crags could have held it against a thousand
until relieved.  It was a mystery why Kagig, or some one else, had not left a man at the foot
of the clay slope to tell us about this narrow causeway;  but doubtless Kagig had plenty to
think about.

He and most of his men had gone struggling up the clay slope, as we could tell by the state
of the going.  But they were old hands at it and knew the trick of the stuff.  We had all our
work cut out to shepherd our poor stragglers along the track Will found, and even the view
of Zeitoon when we turned round the last bend and saw the place jeweled in the morning mist
did not do much to increase the speed.

As Kagig had once promised us, it was "scenery to burst the heart!" Not even the Himalayas
have anything more ruggedly beautiful to show, glistening in mauve and gold and opal, and enormous
to the eye because the summits all look down from over blowing cloud-banks.

There were moss-grown lower slopes, and waterfalls plunging down wet ledges from the loins
of rain-swept majesty;  pine trees looming blue through a soft gray fog, and winds whispering
to them, weeping to them, moving the mist back and forth again;  shadows of clouds and eagles
lower yet, moving silently on sunny slopes.  And up above it all was snow-dazzling, pure white,
shading off into the cold blue of infinity.

Men clad in goat-skin coats peered down at us from time to time from crags that looked inaccessible,
shouting now and then curt recognition before leaning again on a modern rifle to resume the
ancient vigil of the mountaineer, which is beyond the understanding of the plains-man because
it includes attention to all the falling water voices, and the whispering of heights and deeps.

We came on Zeitoon suddenly, rising out of a gorge that was filled with ice, or else a raging
torrent, for six months of the year. Over against the place was a mountainside so exactly suggesting
painted scenery that the senses refused to believe it real, until the roar and thunder of the
Jihun tumbling among crags dinned into the ears that it was merely wonderful, and not untrue.

The one approach from the southward--that gorge up which we trudged --was overlooked all along
its length by a hundred inaccessible fastnesses from which it seemed a handful of riflemen
could have disputed that right of way forever.  The only other line of access that we could
see was by a wooden bridge flung from crag to crag three hundred feet high across the Jihun;
and the bridge was overlooked by buildings and rocks from which a hail of lead could have been
made to sweep it at short range.

Zeitoon itself is a mountain, next neighbor to the Beirut Dagh, not as high, nor as inaccessible;
but high enough, and inaccessible enough to give further pause to its would-be conquerors.
Not in anything resembling even rows, but in lawless disorder from the base to the shoulder
of the mountain, the stone and wooden houses go piling skyward, overlooking one another's roofs,
and each with an unobstructed view of endless distances.  The picture was made infinitely lovely
by wisps of blown mist, like hair-lines penciled in the violet air.

Distances were all foreshortened in that atmosphere, and it was mid-afternoon before we came
to a halt at last face to face with blank wall.  The track seemed to have been blocked by half
the mountain sitting down across it.  We sat down to rest in the shadow of the shoulder of
an overhanging rock, and after half an hour some one looked down on us, and whistled shrilly.
Kagig with a rifle across his knees looked down from a height of a hundred and fifty feet,
and laughed like a man who sees the bitter humor of the end of shams.

"Welcome!" he shouted between his hands.  And his voice came echoing down at us from wall to
wall of the gorge.  Five minutes later he sent a man to lead us around by a hidden track that
led upward, sometimes through other houses, and very often over roofs, across ridiculously
tiny yards, and in between walls so closely set together that a mule could only squeeze through
by main force.

We stabled the mules in a shed the man showed us, and after that Kagig received us four, and
Anna, Gloria's self-constituted maid, in his own house.  It was bare of nearly everything but
sheer necessities, and he made no apology, for he had good taste, and perfect manners if you
allowed for the grim necessity of being curt and the strain of long responsibility.

A small bench took the place of a table in the main large room. There was a fireplace with
a wide stone chimney at one end, and some stools, and also folded skins intended to be sat
on, and shiny places on the wall where men in goat-skin coats had leaned their backs.

Two or three of the gipsy women were hanging about outside, and one of the gipsies who had
been with him in the room in the khan at Tarsus appeared to be filling the position of servitor.
He brought us yoghourt in earthenware bowls--extremely cool and good it was;  and after we
had done I saw him carry down a huge mess more of it to the house below us, where many of the
stragglers we had brought along were quartered by Kagig's order.

"Where's Monty?" Fred demanded as soon as we entered the room.

"Presently!" Kagig answered--rather irritably I thought.  He seemed to have adopted Monty as
his own blood brother, and to resent all other claims on him.

The afternoon was short, for the shadow of the surrounding mountains shut us in.  Somebody
lighted a fire in the great open chimney-place, and as we sat around that to revel in the warmth
that rests tired limbs better than sleep itself, Kagig strode out to attend to a million things--as
the expression of his face testified.

Then in came Maga, through a window, with self-betrayal in manner and look of having been watching
us ever since we entered.  She went up to Will, who was squatted on folded skins by the chimney
corner, and stood beside him, claiming him without a word.  Her black hair hung down to her
waist, and her bare feet, not cut or bruised like most of those that walk the hills unshod,
shone golden in the firelight. I looked about for Peter Measel, expecting a scene, but he had
taken himself off, perhaps in search of her.

She had eyes for nobody but Gloria, and no smile for any one.  Gloria stared back at her, fascinated.

"You married?" she asked;  and Gloria shook her head.  "You 'eard me, what I said back below
there!"

Gloria nodded.

"You sing?"

"Sometimes."

"You dance?"

"Oh, yes.  I love it."

"Ah!  You shall sing--you shall dance--against me!  First you sing --then I sing.  Then you
dance--then I dance--to-night--you understan'? If I sing better as you sing--an' if I dance
better as you dance--then I throw you over Zeitoon bridge, an' no one interfere!  But if you
sing better as I sing--an' if you dance better as I dance--then you shall make a servant of
me;  for I know you will be too big fool an' too chicken 'earted to keel me, as I would keel
you!  You understan'?"

It rather looked as if an issue would have to be forced there and then, but at that minute
Gregor entered, and drove her out with an oath and terrific gesture, she not seeming particularly
afraid of him, but willing to wait for the better chance she foresaw was coming. Gregor made
no explanation or apology, but fastened down the leather window-curtain after her and threw
more wood on the fire.

Then back came Kagig.

"Where the devil's Monty?" Fred demanded.

"Come!" was the only answer.  And we all got up and followed him out into the chill night air,
and down over three roofs to a long shed in which lights were burning.  All the houses--on
every side of us were ahum with life, and small wonder, for Zeitoon was harboring the refugees
from all the district between there and Tarsus, to say nothing of fighting men who came in
from the hills behind to lend a hand.  But we were bent on seeing Monty at last, and had no
patience for other matters.

However, it was only the prisoners he had led us out to see, and nothing more.

"Look, see!" he said, opening the heavy wooden door of the shed as an armed sentry made way
for him.  (Those armed men of Zeitoon did not salute one another, but preserved a stoic attitude
that included recognition of the other fellow's right to independence, too.)  "Look in there,
and see, and tell me--do the Turks treat Armenian prisoners that way?"

We entered, and walked down the length of the dim interior, passing between dozens of prisoners
lying comfortably enough on skins and blankets.  As far as one could judge, they had been fed
well, and they did not wear the look of neglect or ill-treatment.  At the end, in a little
pen all by himself, was the colonel whom Rustum Khan had made a present of to Gloria.

"What's the straw for?" Fred demanded.

"Ask him!" said Kagig.  "He understands!  If there should be treachery the straw will be set
alight, and he shall know how pigs feel when they are roasted alive!  Never fear--there will
be no treachery!"

We followed him back to his own house, he urging us to make good note of the prisoners' condition,
and to bear witness before the world to it afterward.

"The world does not know the difference between Armenians and  Turks!" he complained again
and again.

Once again we arranged ourselves about his open chimney-place, this time with Kagig on a foot-stool
in the midst of us.  Heat, weariness, and process of digestion were combining to make us drowsily
comfortable, and I, for one, would have fallen asleep where I sat.  But at last the long-awaited
happened, and in came Monty striding like a Norman, dripping with dew, and clean from washing
in the icy water of some mountain torrent.

"Oh, hello, Didums!" Fred remarked, as if they had parted about an hour ago.  "You long-legged
rascal, you look as if you'd been having the time of your life!"

"I have!" said Monty.  And after a short swift stare at him Fred looked glum.  Those two men
understood each other as the clapper understands the bell.

Chapter Sixteen "What care I for my belly, sahib, if you break my heart?"

"IT WAS VERY GOOD"
            (Genesis 1:31)

I saw these shambles in my youth, and said There is no God!  No Pitiful presides Over such
obsequies as these.  The end Alike is darkness whether foe or friend, Beast, man or flower
the event abides. There is no heaven for the hopeful dead-- No better haven than forgetful
sod That smothers limbs and mouth and ears and eyes, And with those, love and permanence and
strife And vanity and laughter that they thought was life, Making mere compost of the one who
dies. To whose advantage?  Nay, there is no God! But He, whose other name is Pitiful, was pleased
By melting gentleness whose measures broke The ramps of ignorance and keeps of lust, Tumbling
alike folly and the fool to dust, To teach me womanhood until there spoke Still voices inspiration
had released, And I heard truly.  All the voices said: Out of departed yesterday is grown to-day;
Out of to-day to-morrow surely breaks; Out of corruption the inspired awakes; Out of existence
earth-clouds roll away And leave all living, for there are no dead!

After we had made room for Monty before the fire and some one had hung his wet jacket up to
dry, we volleyed questions at him faster than he could answer.  He sat still and let us finish,
with fingers locked together over his crossed knee and, underneath the inevitable good humor,
a rather puzzled air of wishing above all things to understand our point of view.  Over and
over again I have noticed that trait, although he always tried to cover it under an air of
polite indifference and easy tolerance that was as opaque to a careful observer as Fred's attempts
at cynicism.

In the end he answered the last question first.

"My agreement with Kagig?"

"Yes, tell them!" put in Kagig.  "If I should, they would say I lied!"

"It's nothing to speak of," said Monty offhandedly.  "It dawned on our friend here that I have
had experience in some of the arts of war.  I proposed to him that if he would take a force
and go to find you, I would help him to the limit without further condition. That's all."

"All, you ass?  Didums, I warned you at the time when you let them make you privy councilor
that you couldn't ever feel free again to kick over traces!  Dammit, man, you can be impeached
by parliament!"

"Quite so, Fred.  I propose that parliament shall have to do something at last about this state
of affairs."

"You'll end up in an English jail, and God help you! --social position gone--milked of your
last pound to foot the lawyers' bills--otherwise they'll hang you!"

"Let 'em hang me after I'm caught!  I've promised.  Remember what Byron did for Greece?  I
don't suppose his actual fighting amounted to very much, but he brought the case of Greece
to the attention of the public.  Public opinion did the rest, badly, I admit, but better badly
and late than never.  I'm in this scrimmage, Fred, until the last bell rings and they hoist
my number."

"Fine!" exclaimed Gloria, jumping to her feet.  "So am I in it to a finish!"

Monty smiled at her with understanding and approval.

"Almost my first duty, Miss Vanderman," he said kindly, "will be to arrange that you can not
possibly come to harm or be prejudiced by any course the rest of us may decide on."

"Quite so!" Will agreed with a grin, and Fred began chuckling like a schoolboy at a show.

"Nonsense!" she answered hotly.  "I've come to harm already--see, I'm wounded--I've been fighting--I'm
already prejudiced as you call it!  If you're an outlaw, so am I!"

She flourished her bandaged wrist and looked like Joan of Arc about to summon men to sacrifice.
But the argument ready on her lips was checked suddenly.  The night was without wind, yet the
outer door burst open exactly as if a sudden hurricane had struck it, and Maga entered with
a lantern in her hand.  She tried to kick the door shut again, but it closed on Peter Measel
who had followed breathlessly, and she turned and banged his head with the bottom of the lantern
until the glass shattered to pieces.

"That fool!" she shouted.  "Oh, that fool!"  Then she let him come in and close the door, giving
him the broken lantern to hold, which he did very meekly, rubbing the crown of his head with
the other hand;  and she stood facing the lot of us with hands on her hips and a fine air of
despising every one of us.  But I noticed that she kept a cautious eye on Kagig, who in return
paid very little attention to her.

"Fight?" she exclaimed, pointing at Gloria.  "What does she know about fighting?  If she can
fight,--let her fight me!  I stand ready --I wait for 'er!  Give 'er a knife, an' I will fight
'er with my bare 'ands!"

Gloria turned pale and Will laid a hand on her shoulder, whispering something that brought
the color back again.

"Maga!"

Kagig said that one word in a level voice, but the effect was greater than if he had pointed
a pistol.  The fire died from her eyes and she nodded at him simply.  Then her eyes blazed
again, although she looked away from Gloria toward a window.  The leather blind was tied down
at the corners by strips of twisted hide.

She began to jabber in the gipsy tongue--then changed her mind and spat it out in English for
our joint benefit.

"All right.  She is nothing to do with me, that woman, and she shall come to a rotten end,
I know, an' that is enough.  But there is some one listening!  Not a woman--not with spunk
enough to be a woman! That dirty horse-pond drinking unshaven black bastard Rustum Khan is
outside listening!  You think 'e is busy at the fortifying?  Then I tell you, No, 'e is not!
'E is outside listening!"

The surprising answer to that assertion was a heavy saber thrust between the window-frame and
blind and descending on the thong. Next followed Rustum Khan's long boot.  Then came the man
himself with dew all over his upbrushed beard, returning the saber to its scabbard with an
accompanying apologetic motion of the head.

"Aye, I was listening!"  He spoke as one unashamed.  "Umm Kulsum" (that was his fancy name
for Maga) "spoke truth for once!  I came from the fortifying, where all is finished that can
be done to-night. I have been the rounds.  I have inspected everything.  I report all well.
On my way hither I saw Umm Kulsum, with that jackal trotting at her heel--he made a scornful
gesture in the direction of Peter Measel, who winced perceptibly, at which Fred Oakes chuckled
and nudged me--"and I followed Umm Kulsum, to observe what harm she might intend."

"Black pig!" remarked Maga, but Rustum Khan merely turned his splendid back a trifle more toward
her.  His color, allowing for the black beard, was hardly darker than hers.

"Why should I not listen, since my heart is in the matter?  Lord sahib--Colonel sahib bahadur!--take
back those words before it is too late!  Undo the promise made to this Armenian!  What is he
to thee?  Set me instead of thee, sahib!  What am I?  I have no wives, no lands any longer
since the money-lenders closed their clutches on my eldest son, no hope, nor any fellowship
with kings to lose! But I can fight, as thou knowest!  Give me, sahib, to redeem thy promise,
and go thou home to England!"

"Sit down, Rustum Khan!"

"But, sahib--"

"Sit down!" Monty repeated.

"I will not see thee sacrificed for this tribe of ragged people, Colonel sahib!"

Monty rose to his feet slowly.  His face was an enigma.  The Rajput stood at attention facing
him and they met each other's eyes--East facing West--in such fashion that manhood seemed to
fill the smoky room.  Every one was silent.  Even Maga held her breath.  Monty strode toward
Rustum Khan; the Rajput was the first to speak.

"Colonel sahib, I spoke wise words!"

It seemed to me that Monty looked very keenly at him before he answered.

"Have you had supper, Rustum Khan?  You look to me feverish from overwork and lack of food."

"What care I for my belly, sahib, if you break my heart?" the Rajput answered.  "Shall I live
to see Turks fling thy carcass to the birds? I have offered my own body in place of thine.
Am I without honor, that my offer is refused?"

Monty answered that in the Rajput tongue, and it sounded like the bass notes of an organ.

"Brother mine, it is not the custom of my race to send substitutes to keep such promises. 
That thou knowest, and none has reason to know better.  If thy memories and honor urge thee
to come the way I take, is there no room for two of us?"

"Aye, sahib!" said the Rajput huskily.  "I said before, I am thy man.  I come.  I obey!"

"Obey, do you?" Monty laid both hands on the Rajput's shoulders, struck him knee against knee
without warning and pressed him down into a squatting posture.  "Then obey when I order you
to sit!"

The Rajput laughed up at him as suddenly sweet-tempered as a child.

"None other could have done that and not fought me for it!" he said simply.  "None other would
have had the strength!" he added.

Monty ignored the pleasantry and turned to Maga, so surprising that young woman--that she gasped.

"Bring him food at once, please!"

"Me?  I?  I bring him food?  I feed that black--"

"Yes!" snapped Kagig suddenly.  "You, Maga!"

Maga's and Kagig's eyes met, and again he had his way with her instantly. Peter Measel, standing
over by the door, looked wistful and sighed noisily.

"Why should you obey him?" he demanded, but Maga ignored him as she passed out, and Fred nudged
me again.

"A miracle!" he whispered.  "Did you hear the martyred biped suggest rebellion to her?  He'll
be offering to fight Kagig next!  Guess what is Kagig's hold over the girl--can you?"

But a much greater miracle followed.  Rather than disobey Monty again; rather than seem to
question his authority, or differ from his judgment in the least, Rustum Khan forebore presently
from sending for his own stripling servant and actually accepted food from Maga's hands.

As a Mahammadan, he made in theory no caste distinctions.  But as a Rajput be had fixed Hindu
notions without knowing it, and almost his chief care was lest his food should be defiled by
the touch of outcasts, of whom he reckoned gipsies lowest, vilest and least cleansible.  Nevertheless
he accepted curds that had been touched by gipsy fingers, and ate greedily, in confirmation
of Monty's diagnosis; and after a few minutes he laid his head on a folded goat-skin in the
corner, and fell asleep.

Then Monty sent a servant to his own quarters for some prized possession that he mentioned
in a whisper behind his hand.  None of us suspected what it might be until the man returned
presently with a quart bottle of Scotch whisky.  Kagig himself got mugs down from a shelf three
inches wide, and Monty poured libations.  Kagig, standing with legs apart, drank his share
of the strong stuff without waiting;  and that brought out the chief surprise of the evening.

"Ah-h-h!" he exclaimed, using the back of his hand to wipe mobile lips. "Not since I drank
in Tony's have I tasted that stuff!  The taste makes me homesick for what never was my home,
nor ever can be! Tony's--ah!"

"What Tony's?" demanded Will, emerging from whispered interludes with Gloria like a man coming
out of a dream.

"Tony's down near the Battery."

"What--the Battery, New York--?"

"Where else?  Tony was a friend of mine.  Tony lent me money when I landed in the States without
a coin.  It was right that I should take a last drink with Tony before I came away forever."

Fred reached into the corner for a lump of wood and set it down suggestively before the fire.
Kagig accepted and sat down on it, stretching his legs out rather wearily.

"I noticed you've been remembering your English much better than at first," said Will.  "Go
on, man, tell us!"

Kagig cleared his throat and warmed himself while his eyes seemed to search the flames for
stories from a half-forgotten past.

"Weren't the States good enough for you?" Will suggested, by way of starting him off.

"Good enough?  Ah!"  He made all eight fingers crack like castanets. "Much too good!  How could
I live there safe and comfortable--eggs and bacon--clean shirt--good shoes--an apartment with
a bath in it --easy work--good pay--books to read--kindness--freedom--how could I accept all
that, remembering my people in Armenia?"

He ran his fingers through his hair, and stared in the fire again --remembering America perhaps.

"There was a time when I forgot.  All young men forget for a while if you feed them well enough.
The sensation of having money in my pocket and the right to spend it made me drunk.  I forgot
Armenia. I took out what are called first papers.  I was very prosperous--very grateful."

He lapsed into silence again, holding his head bowed between his hands.

"Why didn't you become a citizen?" asked Will.

"Ah!  Many a time I thought of it.  I am citizen of no land--of no land!  I am outlaw here--outlaw
in the States!  I slew a Turk.  They would electrocute me in New York--for slaying the man
who--have you heard me tell what happened to my mother, before my very eyes?  Well --that man
came to America, and I slew him!"

"Why did you leave Armenia in the first place?" asked Gloria, for he seemed to need pricking
along to prevent him from getting off the track into a maze of silent memory.

"Why not?  I was lucky to get away!  That cursed Abdul Hamid had been rebuked by the powers
of Europe for butchering Bulgars, so he turned on us Armenians in order to prove to himself
that he could do as he pleased in his own house.  I tell you, murder and rape in those days
were as common as flies at midsummer!  I escaped, and worked my passage in the stoke-hole of
a little merchant steamer --they were little ships in those days.  And when I reached America
without money or friends they let me land because I had been told by the other sailors to say
I was fleeing from religious persecution. The very first day I found a friend in Tony.  I cleaned
his windows, and the bar, and the spittoons;  and he lent me money to go where work would be
plentiful.  Those were the days when I forgot Armenia."

He began to forget our existence again, laying his face on his forearms and staring down at
the floor between his feet.

"What brought it back to memory?" asked Gloria.

"The Turk brought it back--Fiamil--who bought my mother from four drunken soldiers, and ill-treated
her before my eyes.  He came to the Turkish consulate, not as consul but in some peculiar position;
and by that time I was thriving as head-waiter and part-owner of a New York restaurant.  Thither
the fat beast came to eat daily. And so I met him, and recognized him.  He did not know me.

"Remember, I was young, and prosperous for the first time in all my life.  You must not judge
me by too up-right standards.  At first I argued with myself to let him alone.  He was nothing
to me.  I no longer believed in God.  My mother was long dead, and Armenia no more my country.
My money was accumulating in a savings bank. I was proud of it, and I remember I saw visions
of great restaurants in every city of America, all owned by me!  I did not like to take any
step that should prevent that flow of money into the savings bank.

"But Fiamil inflamed my memory, and I saw him every day.  And at last it dawned on me what
his peculiar business in America must be. He was back at his old games, buying women.  He was
buying American young women to be shipped to Turkey, all under the seal of consular activity.
One day, after he had had lunch and I had brought him cigarettes and coffee, he made a proposal.
And although I did not care very deeply for the women of a free land who were willing to be
sold into Turkish harems, nevertheless, as I said, he inflamed my memory.  A love of Armenia
returned to me.  I remembered my people, I remembered my mother's shame, and my own shame.

"After a little reflection I agreed with Fiamil, and met him that night in an up-stairs room
at a place he frequented for his purposes. I locked the door, and we had some talk in there,
until in the end he remembered me and all the details of my mother's death.  After that I killed
him with a corkscrew and my ten fingers, there being no other weapon.  And I threw his body
out of the window into the gutter, as my mother's body had been thrown, myself escaping from
the building by another way.

"Not knowing where to hide, I kept going--kept going;  and after two days I fell among sportmen--cow-punchers
they called themselves, who had come to New York with a circus, and the circus had gone broke.
To them I told some of my story, and they befriended me, taking me West with them to cook their
meals;  and for a year I traveled in cow camps.  In those days I remembered God as well as
Armenia, and I used to pray by starlight.

"And Armenia kept calling--calling.  Fiamil had wakened in me too many old memories.  But there
was the money in the savings bank that I did not dare to draw for fear the police might learn
my address, yet I had not the heart to leave behind.

"So I took a sportman into my confidence, and told him about my money, and why I wanted it.
He was not the foreman, but the man who took the place of foreman when the real foreman was
too drunk--the hungriest man of all, and so oftenest near the cook-fire.  When I had told him,
he took me to a township where a lawyer was, and the lawyer drew up a document, which I signed.

"Then the sportman--his name was Larry Atkins, I remember--took that document and went to draw
the money on my behalf.  And that was the last I saw of him.  Not that he was not sportman--all
through.  He told me in a letter afterward that the police arrested him, supposing him to be
me, but that he easily proved he was not me, and so got away with the money.  Enclosed in the
package in which the letter came were his diamond ring and a watch and chain, and he also sent
me an order to deliver to me his horse and saddle.

"He explained he had tried to double my money by gambling, but had lost.  Therefore he now
sent me all he had left, a fair exchange being no robbery.  Oh, he was certainly sportman!

"So I sold his watch and chain and the horse--but the diamond ring I kept--behold it!--see,
on Maga's hand!--it was a real diamond that a woman had given him;  and with the proceeds I
came back to Armenia. In Armenia I have ever since remained, with the exception of one or two
little journeys in time of war, and one or two little temporary hidings, and a trip into Persia,
and another into Russia to get ammunition.

"How have I lived?  Mostly by robbery!  I rob Turks and all friends of Turks, and such people
as help make it possible for Turks as a nation to continue to exist!  I--we--I and my men--we
steal a cartridge sooner than a piaster--a rifle sooner than a thousand roubles!  Outlaws must
live, and weapons are the chief means!  I am the brains and the Eye of Zeitoon, but I have
never been chieftain, and am not now. Observe my house--is it not empty?  I tell you, if it
had not been for my new friend Monty there would have been six or seven rival chieftains in
Zeitoon to-night!  As it is, they sulk in their houses, the others, because Monty has rallied
all the fighting men to me! Now that Monty has come I think there will be unity forever in
Zeitoon!"

He turned toward Monty with a gesture of really magnificent approval. Caesar never declined
a crown with greater dignity.

"You, my brother, have accomplished in a few days what I have failed to do in years!  That
is because you are sportman!  Just as Larry Atkins was sportman!  He sent me all he had, and
could not do more. I understood him.  Why did he do it?  Simply sportman--that is all! Why
do you do this?  Why do you throw your life into the hot cauldron of Zeitoon?  Because you
are sportman!  And my people see, and understand.  They understand, as they have never understood
me! I will tell you why they have never understood me.  This is why:

"I have always kept a little in reserve.  At one time money in a bank. At another time money
buried.  Sometimes a place to run and hide in. Now and then a plan for my own safety in case
a defense should fail. Never have I given absolutely quite all, burning all my bridges. Had
I been Larry Atkins I would not have gambled with the money of a man who trusted me;  but,
having lost the money, I would not have sent my diamond and the watch and chain!  Neither,
if the horse and saddle bad been within my reach would I have sent an order to deliver those!
That is why Zeitoon has never altogether trusted me! Some, but never all, until to-night!

"My brother--"

He stood up, with the motions of a man who is stiff with weariness.

"I salute you!  You have taught me my needed lesson!"

"I wonder!" whispered Fred to me.  "Remember Peter at the fireside? Methinks friend Kagig doth
too much protest!  We'll see.  Nemesis comes swiftly as a rule."

I shoved Fred off his balance, rolled him over, and sat on him, because cynicism and iconoclasm
are twin deities I neither worship nor respect. But at times Fred Oakes is gifted with uncanny
vision.  While he struggled explosively to throw me off, the door began resounding to steady
thumps, and at a sign from Kagig, Maga opened it.

There strode in nine Armenians, followed closely by one of the gipsies of Gregor Jhaere's party,
who whispered to Maga through lips that hardly moved, and made signals to Kagig with a secretive
hand like a snake's head.  I got off Fred's stomach then, and when he had had his revenge by
emptying hot pipe ashes down my neck he sat close beside me and translated what followed word
for word.  It was all in Armenian, spoken in deadly earnest by hairy men on edge with anxiety
and yet compelled to grudging patience by the presence of strangers and knowledge of the hour's
necessity.

When the gipsy had finished making signals to Kagig be sat down and seemed to take no further
interest.  But a little later I caught sight of him by the dancing fire-light creeping along
the wall, and presently he lay down with his head very close to Rustum Khan's. Nothing points
more clearly to the clarifying tension of that night than the fact that Rustum Khan with his
notions about gipsies could compel himself to lie still with a gipsy's head within three inches
of his own, and sham sleep while the gipsy whispered to him.  I was not the only one who observed
that marvel, although I did not know that at the time.

The nine Armenians who had entered were evidently influential men. Elders was the word that
occurred as best describing them.  They were smelly with rain and smoke and the close-kept
sweat beneath their leather coats--all of them bearded--nearly all big men--and they strode
and stood with the air of being usually heard when they chose to voice opinion.  Kagig stood
up to meet them, with his back toward the fire--legs astraddle, and hands clasped behind him.

"Ephraim says," began the tallest of the nine, who had entered first and stood now nearest
to Kagig and the firelight, "that you will yourself be king of Armenia!"

"Ephraim lies!" said Kagig grimly.  "He always does lie.  That man can not tell truth!"

Two of the others grunted, and nudged the first man, who made an exclamation of impatience
and renewed the attack.

"But there is the Turk--the colonel whom your Indian friend took prisoner--he says--"

"Pah!  What Turk tells the truth?"

"He says that the Indian--what is his name?  Rustum Khan--was purposing to use him as prisoner-of-war,
whereas in accordance with a private agreement made beforehand you were determined to make
matters easy for him.  He demands of us better treatment in fulfilment of promise. He says
that the army is coming to take Zeitoon, and to make you governor in the Sultan's name.  He
offered us that argument thinking we are your dupes.  He thought to--"

"Dupes?" snarled Kagig.  "How long have ye dealt with Turks, and how long with me, that ye
take a Turk's word against mine?"

"But the Turk thought we are your friends," put in a harsh-voiced man from the rear of the
delegation.  "Otherwise, how should he have told us such a thing?"

"If he had thought you were my friends," Kagig answered, "he would never have dared.  If you
had been my friends, you would have taken him and thrown him into Jihun River from the bridge!"

"Yet he has said this thing," said a man who had not spoken yet.

"And none has heard you deny it, Kagig!" added the man nearest the door.

"Then hear me now!" Kagig shouted, on tiptoe with anger.  Then he calmed himself and glanced
about the room for a glimpse of eyes friendly to himself.  "Hear me now.  Those Turks--truly
come to set a governor over Zeitoon.  I forgot that the prisoner might understand English.
I talked with this friend of mine--he made a gesture toward Monty.  "Perhaps that Turk overheard,
he is cleverer than he looks. I had a plan, and I told it to my friend.  The Turk was near,
I remember, eating the half of my dinner I gave him."

"Have you then a plan you never told to us?" the first man asked suspiciously.

"One plan?  A thousand!  Am I wind that I should babble into heedless ears each thought that
comes to me for testing?  First it was my plan to arouse all Armenia, and to overthrow the
Turk.  Armenia failed me.  Then it was my plan to arouse Zeitoon, and to make a stand here
to such good purpose that all Armenia would rally to us.  Bear me witness whether Zeitoon trusted
me or not?  How much backing have I had?  Some, yes;  but yours?

"So it was plain that if the Turks sent a great army, Zeitoon could only hold out for a little
while, because unanimity is lacking. And my spies report to me that a greater army is on the
way than ever yet came to the rape of Armenia.  These handful of hamidieh that ye think are
all there is to be faced are but the outflung skirmishers.  It was plain to me that Zeitoon
can not last.  So I made a new plan, and kept it secret."

"Ah-h-h!  So that was the way you took us into confidence?  Always secrets behind secrets,
Kagig!  That is our complaint!"

"Listen, ye who would rather suspect than give credit!"  He used one word in the Armenian.
"It was my plan--my new plan, that seeing the Turks insist on giving us a governor, and are
able to overwhelm us if we refuse, then I would be that governor!"

"Ah-h-h!  What did we say!  Unable to be king, you will be governor!"

"I talked that over with my new friend, and he did not agree with me, but I prevailed.  Now
hear my last word on this matter:  I will not be governor of Zeitoon!  I will lead against
this army that is coming.  If you men prevent me, or disobey me, or speak against me, I will
hang you--every one!  I will accept no reward, no office, no emolument, no title--nothing!
Either I die here, fighting for Zeitoon, or I leave Zeitoon when the fighting is over, and
leave it as I came to it--penniless!  I give now all that I have to give. I burn my bridges!
I take inviolable oath that I will not profit! And by the God who fed me in the wilderness,
I name my price for that and take my payment in advance!  I will be obeyed!  Out with you!
Get out of here before I slay you all!  Go and tell Zeitoon who is master here until the fight
is lost or won!"

He seized a great firebrand and charged at them, beating right and left, and they backed away
in front of him, protesting from under forearms raised to protect their faces.  He refused
to hear a word from them, and drove, them back against the door.

Strange to say, it was Rustum Khan who gave up all further pretense at sleeping and ran round
to fling the door open--Rustum Khan who took part with Kagig, and helped drive them out into
the dark, and Rustum Khan who stood astraddle in the doorway, growling after them in Persian--the
only language he knew thoroughly that they likely understood:

"Bismillah!  Ye have heard a man talk!  Now show yourselves men, and obey him, or by the beard
of God's prophet there shall be war within Zeitoon fiercer than that without!  Take counsel
of your women-folk!  Ye--"  (he used no drawing-room word to intimate their sex)--"are too
full of thoughts to think!"

Then he turned on Kagig, and held out a lean brown hand.  Kagig clasped it, and they met each
other's eyes a moment.

"Am I sportman?" Kagig asked ingenuously.

"Brother," said Rustum Khan, "next after my colonel sahib I accept thee as a man fit to fight
beside!"

We were all standing.  A free-for-all fight had seemed too likely, and we had not known whether
there were others outside waiting to reinforce the delegation.  Rustum Khan sought Monty's eyes.

"You have the news, sahib?"

Kagig laughed sharply, and dismissed the past hour from his mind with a short sweep of the hand.

"No.  Tell me," said Monty.

"The gipsy brought it.  A whole division of the Turkish regular army is on the march.  Their
rear-guard camps to-night a day's march this side of Tarsus.  Dawn will find the main body
within sight of us. Half a brigade has hurried forward to reenforce the men we have just beaten.
Are there any orders?"

Fred's face fell, and my heart dropped into my boots.  A division is a horde of men to stand
against.

"No," said Monty.  "No orders yet."

"Then I will sleep again," said Rustum Khan, and suited action to the word, laying his head
on the same folded goat-skin he had used before and breathing deeply within the minute.

Nobody spoke.  Rustum Khan's first deep snore had not yet announced his comment on the situation,
and we all stood waiting for Kagig to say something.  But it was Peter Measel who spoke first.

"I will pray," he announced.  "I saw that gipsy whispering to the Indian, and I know there
is treachery intended!  O Lord--O righteous Lord--forgive these people for their bloody and
impudent plans! Forgive them for plotting to shed blood!  Forgive them for arrogance, for ambition,
for taking Thy name in vain, for drinking strong drink, for swearing, for vanity, and for all
their other sins.  Forgive above all the young woman of the party, who is not satisfied with
a wound already but looks forward with unwomanly zest to further fighting!  Forgive them for
boasting and--"

"Throw that fool out!" barked Kagig suddenly.

"O Lord forgive--"

Fred was nearest the door, and opened it.  Maga laughed aloud.  I was nearest to Peter Measel,
so it was I who took him by the neck and thrust him into outer darkness.  Kagig kicked the
door shut after him;  but even so we heard him for several minutes grinding out condemnatory
prayers.

"Now sleep, sportmen all!" said Kagig, blessing us with both hands. "Sleep against the sport
to-morrow!"

Chapter Seventeen "I knew what to expect of the women!"

"AND  DELILAH  SAID--"

Always at fault is the fellow betrayed (Majorities murder to prove it!) As Samson discovered,
Delilah lies, The stigma's stuck on by the cynical wise, And nothing can ever remove it. We'll
cast out Delilah and spit on her dead, (That revenge is remarkably human), And pity the victim
of underhand tricks So be that it's moral (the sexes don't mix); But, oh, think what the cynical
wise would have said If Judas were only a woman!

We slept until Monty called us, two hours before dawn, although I was conscious most of the
night of stealthy men and women who stepped over me to get at Kagig and whisper to him.  His
marvelous spy system was working full blast, and he seemed to run no risks by letting the spies
report to any one but himself.  Fred, who slept more lightly than I did, told me afterward
that the women principally brought him particulars of the workings of local politics;  the
men detailed news of the oncoming concrete enemy.

There was breakfast served by Maga in the dark--hot milk, and a strange mess of eggs and meat.
For some reason no one thought of relighting the fire, and although the ashes glowed we shivered
until the food put warmth in us.

By the light of the smoky lamp I thought that Monty wore a strangely divided air, between gloom
and exultation.  Fred had been wide awake and talking with him since long before first cock-crow
and was obviously out of sorts, shaking his head at intervals and unwilling more than to poke
at his food with a fork.  I crossed the room to sit beside them, and came in for the tail end
of the conversation.

"I might have known it, Didums, when I let you go on alone.  I'll never forgive myself.  I
had a premonition and disobeyed it.  You pose as a cast-iron materialist with no more ambition
than money enough to retrieve your damned estates, and all the while you're the most romantic
ass who ever wore out saddle-leather!  Found it, have you?  Then God help us all!  I know what's
coming!  You're about to 'vert back to Crusader days, and try to do damsilly deeds of chivalry
without the war-horse or the suit of mail!"

"No need for you to join me, Fred.  You take charge of the others and get them away to safety."

"Take charge of hornets!  I'd leave you, of course, like a shot! But can you see Will Yerkes,
for instance, riding off and leaving you to play Don Quixote?  Damn you, Didums, can't you see--?"

"Destiny, Fred. Manifest destiny."

"Can't you see crusading is dead as a dead horse?"

"So am I, old man.  I'm no use but to do this very thing.  I can serve these people.  If I'm
killed, there'll be a howl in the papers. If I'm taken, there'll be a row in parliament."

"You don't intend to be taken--I know you!"

"Honest, Fred, I--"

"Have I known you all these years to be fooled now?  Smelling rats 'ud be subtle to it--I can
feel the air bristling!  You mean to raise the Montdidier banner and die under it, last of
your race.  But you're not last, you bally ass!"

"Last in the direct line, Fred."

"Yes, but there's that rotter Charles ready to inherit!  If you're bent on suicide--"

"I'm not.  You know I'm not."

"--you might have the decency to kill that miserable cousin first and bring the line to an
end in common honor!  He'll survive you, and as sure as I sit here and swear at you, he'll
bring the Montdidier name into worse disgrace than Judas Iscariot's!"

"I've no intention of suicide, Fred. I assure you--"

But Fred waved the argument aside contemptuously, and stood up to gather our attention.

"Listen!"  He thrust forward his Van Dyke beard that valiantly strove to hide a chin like a
piece of flint.  "Monty has found the robbers' nest that used to belong to his infernal ancestors.
I charge any of you who count yourselves his friends to help me prevent him from behaving like
an idiot!"

"That'll do, Fred!" said Monty, pressing him back against the wall. "The fact is," he twisted
at his black mustache and eyed us each for a second in turn, looking as handsome as the devil,
"that I have found what I originally set out to look for.  It overlooks Zeitoon, hidden among
trees.  I propose to use it.  As for quixotism--is there any one here not willing to fight
in the last ditch to help Kagig and these Armenians?"

"I'm with you!" laughed Gloria, and she and Will had a scuffle over near the fireplace.

"I knew what to expect of the women," said Monty rather bitterly. "I'm speaking to Fred and
the men!"

"Where's Peter Measel?" I asked.  But the others did not see the connection.

"Come along," said Monty.  "Seems to me we're wasting time," and he strode out through the
window on to the roof of the house below --usually the shortest way from point to point in
Zeitoon.  Kagig followed him, and then Rustum Khan.  The stars were no longer shining in the
pale sky overhead, but it was dark where we were because of the mountains that shut out the
dawn.  Fred came last, grumbling and stumbling, too disturbed to look where he was going.

"Fancy me acting Cassandra at my time of life and none to believe me!" he muttered.  Then,
louder:  "I warn you all!  I know that fellow Monty.  If he comes out of this alive it'll be
because we haul him out by the hair!  Won't you listen?"

Outside the window I remembered the field-glasses I had laid down in a corner, and returned
to get them.  In the room were Maga and the woman Anna, who had appointed herself Gloria Vanderman's
maid; they were apparently about to sweep the floor and tidy the place, but as I crossed the
room an older gipsy woman entered by the door, and she and Maga promptly drove Anna out through
the window after my party.  Then the old woman came close to me, her beady bright eyes fixed
on mine, and went through the suggestive gipsy motions that invite the crossing of a palm with
silver.

There seemed at first no excuse for listening to her.  Every gipsy will beg, whether there
is need or not, and knowledge of their habits did not make me less short-tempered;  besides
I had no silver within reach, nor time to waste.

"Not now!" I said, pushing her aside.

But Maga came to her rescue, and clutched my arm.

"See!" she said, and took a Maria Theresa dollar from some hiding-place in her skirt.  "I give
silver for you.  So."  The old hag pouched the coin with exactly the same avidity with which
she would have taken it from me.  "Now she will make magic.  Then I see.  Then I tell you something.
You listen!"

It began to dawn on me that I would better listen after all.  Every human is superstitious,
whether or not he admits if to himself; but the particular fraud of pretending to tell fortunes
never did happen to find the joint in my own armor.  It seemed likely these two women had some
plan that included the preliminary deception of myself, and the sooner I knew something about
it the better.  So I sat down on Kagig's stool, to give them a better opinion of their advantage
over me, there being nothing like making the enemy too confident.  Then I held out the palm
of my hand for inspection and tried to look like a man pretending he does not believe in magic.
Whatever Maga thought, the old hag was delighted.  She began to croak an incantation, shuffling
first with one foot, then with the other, and finally with both together in a weird dance that
almost shook her old frame apart.  Then she went through a pantomime of finger-pointing, as
if transferring from herself to Maga the gift of divining about me.

Presently, standing a little to one side of me, with eyes on the old hag's and my hand held
between her two, Maga began chanting in English.  The fact that her voice was musical and low
where the bag's had been high-pitched and rasping heightened interest, if nothing else.

"You now four men," she began, with a little pause, and something like a swallow between each
sentence.  "You all love one another ver' much.  You all like Kagig.  Kagig is liking you.
But Turks are coming presently, and they keel Kagig--keel heem, you understan'? That man Monty
is also keel--keel dead.  That man Fred--I not know --I not see.  You I see----you I see two
ways.  First way, you marry that woman Gloria--you go away--all well--all good.  Second way--you
not marry her.  Then you all die--dam' quick--Monty, Fred, Will, you, Gloria, everybody--an'
Zeitoon is all burn' up by bloody Turks!"

She paused and looked at me sidewise under lowered eyelids.  I stared straight in front of
me, as if in the state of self-hypnotism that is the fortune-teller's happy hunting-ground.

"You understan'?"

"Yes," I said.  "I think I see.  But how shall I marry Miss Gloria? Suppose she does not want me?"

"You must!  Never mind what she want!  Listen!  This is only way to save your frien's and Zeitoon!
I am giving men--four--five--six men.  They are seizing Gloria.  You go with them.  They take
you safe away.  Then Zeitoon is also safe, an' your frien's are also safe."

"Monty, too?" I asked.

"Yes, then he is also safe."  But--I felt her hands tremble slightly as she said that.

"Do you mean I should leave him?" I asked.

"You must!  You must!"  She almost screamed at me, and shook my hand between her two palms
as if by that means to drive the fact into my consciousness.  The old hag had her eyes fixed
on my right temple as if she would burn a hole there, and between them they were making a better
than amateur effort to control me by suggestion.  It seemed wise to help them deceive themselves.
Maga let go my hand gently, and began passing her ten fingers very softly through my hair,
and there are other men who will bear me witness that there exists sensation less appealing
than when a pretty girt does that.

"You must!" she said again more quietly.  "That is the only way to save Zeitoon.  God is angry."

"What do you know about God?" I asked unguardedly, knowing well that whatever their open pretenses,
gipsies despise all religion except diabolism.  They study creeds for the sake of plunder,
just as hunters study the habits of the wild.

"Maybe nothing--maybe much!  Peter Measel, he say--"

She paused, as if in doubt whether she was using the right argument. And in that moment I recalled
what Rustum Khan had once said about her being no true gipsy.

"Go on," I urged her.  "Peter Measel is an expert.  He's a high priest. He knows it all."

"Peter Measel is saying,  God is ver' angry with Zeitoon and is sending to destroy such bloody
people what plan fighting and rebellion."

"I'll think it over," I said, moving to get up.  But independent thinking was the last thing
that Maga intended to permit me.

"No, no!  No, no, no!  You must dee-cide now--at once!  There is no time.  Now--now I give
you five--six mens--now they seize that woman Gloria--now you carry 'er away into the mountains--now
you make 'er yours--your own, you understan', so as she is ashamed to deny it afterward--yes?--you
see?"

"Where are the men?" I demanded.

"I fetch them quick!"

I could see the hilt of her knife, and the bulge of her repeating pistol, but I could also
feel the weight of my own loaded Colt against my hip. I did not doubt I could escape before
her men could arrive on the scene, but that would have been to leave some secret only part
uncovered.  There was obviously more behind this scheme than met the ear.  It is my experience
that if we throw fear to the winds, and are willing to wait in tight places for the necessary
inspiration, then we get it.

"Very well," I said.  "I agree.  Bring your men."

"You wait.  I get 'em."

I nodded, and she said something in the gipsy language to the old hag, who went out through
the door in a hurry.  Alone with Maga I felt less than half as safe as I had been.  She proceeded
to make use of every moment in the manner they say makes millionaires.

"Gloria, she is ver' nice girl!"  She made a wonderful gesture of both hands that limned in
empty air the curves of her detested rival. "You will love her.  By-and-by she love you--also
ver' much."

The thought flashed through my head again that I ought to escape whole while I had the chance;
but the answer to that was the certainty that she would thence-forward be on guard against
me without having given me any real information.  I was perfectly convinced there was a deep
plot underlying the foolishness she had proposed.  The fact that she considered me so venial
and so gullible was no proof that the hidden purpose was not dangerous.  The mystery was how
to seem to be fooled by her and yet get in touch with my friends.  Then suddenly I recalled
that she and the hag had been trying to use the gipsy's black art.  Unless they can trick their
victim into a mental condition in which innate superstition becomes uppermost, players of that
dark game are helpless.

Yet gipsies are more superstitious than any one else.  Hanging to her neck by a skein of plaited
horse-hair was the polished shell of a minute turtle--smaller than a dollar piece.

"Give me that," I said, "for luck," and she jumped at the idea.

"Yes, yes--that is to bring you luck--ver' much luck!"

She snatched it off and hung it around my neck, pushing the turtle-shell down under my collar
out of sight.

"That is love-token!" she whispered.  "Now she love you immediate'! Now you 'ave ver' much luck!"

The last part of her prophecy was true.  The luck seemed to change. That instant the key was
given me to escape without making her my relentless enemy, a voice that I would know among
a million began shouting for me petulantly from somewhere half a dozen roofs away.

"What in hell's keeping you, man?  Here's Monty getting up a tourist party to his damned ancestral
nest and you're delaying the whole shebang! Good lord alive!  Have you fallen in love with
a woman, or taken the belly-ache, or fallen down a well, or gone to sleep again, or all of
them, or what?"

"Coming, Fred!" I shouted.  "Coming!"

"You'd better!"

He began playing cat-calls on his concertina--imitation bugle-calls, and fragments of serenades.
For a second Maga looked reckless--then suspicious--then, as it began to dawn on her from studying
my face that I, too, was afraid of Fred, relieved.

"Does he know anything?" I asked her.

"He?  That Fred?  No!  No, no, no!  An' you no tell 'im.  You 'ear me? You no tell 'im!  You
go now--go to 'im, or else 'e is get suspicious--understan'?  My men--they go an' get that
woman.  When they finish getting that woman, then I send for you an' you come quick--understan'?"

I nodded.

"Listen!  If you tell your frien's--if you tell that Frrred, or those others--then I not only
keel you, but my men put out your eyes first an' then pull off your toes an' fingers--understan'?"

I shrugged my shoulders, suggesting an attempt to seem at ease.

"Besides--I warn you!  You tell Kagig anything against me an' Kagig is at once your enemy!"

I nodded, and tried to look afraid.  Perhaps the speculation that the last boast started in
my mind helped give me a look that convinced her.

Fred began calling again.

"You go!" she ordered imperiously, with a last effort to impress me with her mental predominance.
"Go quickly!"

I made motions of hand and face as nearly suggestive of underhanded cunning as I could compass,
and climbed out through the window without further invitation. Seeing me emerge, Fred beckoned
from fifty yards away and turned his back.  Morning was just beginning to descend into the
valley, suddenly bright from having finished all the dawn delays among the crags higher up;
but there were deep shadows here and especially where one roof overhung another.

Jumping from roof to roof to follow Fred, I was suddenly brought up short by a figure in shadow
that gesticulated wildly without speaking.  It was below me, in a narrow, shallow runway between
two houses, and I had been so impressed by my interview with Maga that assassination was the
first thought ready to mind.  I sprang aside and tried to check myself, missed footing, and
fell into the very runway I had tried to avoid.

A friend unmistakable, Anna--Gloria's self-constituted maid--ran out of the darkest shadow
and kept me from scrambling to my feet.

"Wait!" she whispered.  "Don't be seen talking to me.  Listen!"

My ankle pained considerably and I was out of breath.  I was willing enough to lie there.

"Maga has made a plot to betray Zeitoon!  She has been talking with that Turkish colonel who
was captured.  I don't know what the plot is, but I listened through a chink in the wall of
the prison, and I heard him promise that she should have Will Yerkes!"

"What else did you hear?"

"Nothing else.  There was wind whistling, and the straw made a noise."

At that moment Fred chose to turn his head to see whether I was following.  Not seeing me,
he came back over the roofs, shouting to know what had happened.  I got to my feet but, although
he hardly looks the part, he is as active as a boy, and he had scrambled to a higher roof that
commanded a view of my runway before my twisted ankle would permit me to escape.

"So that's it, eh?  A woman!"

"Keep an eye on Miss Gloria!"  I whispered to Anna, and she ducked and ran.

If I had had presence of mind I would have accepted the insinuation, and turned the joke on
Fred.  Instead, I denied it hotly like a fool, and nothing could have fed the fires of his
spirit of raillery more surely.

"I've unearthed a plot," I began, limping along beside him.

"No, sir!  It was I who unearthed the two of you!"

"See here, Fred--"

"Look?  I'd be ashamed!  No, no--I wasn't looking!"

"Fred, I'm serious!"

"Entanglements with women are always serious!"

"I tell you, that girl Maga--"

"Two of 'em, eh?  Worser and worser!  You'll have Will jealous into the bargain!"

"Have it your own way, then!" I said, savage with pain (and the reasons he did not hesitate
to assign to my strained ankle were simply scandalous).  "I'll wait until I find a man with
honest ears."

"Try Kagig!" he advised me dryly.

And Kagig I did try.  We came on him at our end of the bridge that overhung the Jihun River.
Our party were waiting on the far side, and Fred hurried over to join them.  Kagig was listening
to the reports of a dozen men, and while I waited to get his ear I could see Fred telling his
great joke to the party.  It was easy to see that Gloria Vanderman did not enjoy the joke;
nor did I blame her.  I did not blame her for sending word there and then to Anna that her
services would not be required any more.

As soon as Kagig saw me he dismissed the other men in various directions and made to start
across the bridge.  I called to him to wait, and walked beside him.

"I've uncovered a plot, Kagig," I began.  "Maga Jhaere has been talking with the Turkish prisoner."

"I know it.  I sent her to talk with him!"

"She has bargained with him to betray Zeitoon!"

For answer to that Kagig turned his head and stared sharply at me --then went off into peals
of diabolic laughter.  He had not a word to offer.  He simply utterly, absolutely, unqualifiedly
disbelieved me--or else chose to have it appear so.

Chapter Eighteen "Per terram et aquam."

AND HE WHO WOULD SAVE HIS LIFE SHALL LOSE IT

The fed fools beat their brazen gong For gods' ears dulled by blatant praise, Awonder why the
scented fumes And surplices at evensong Avail not as in other days. Shrunken and mean the spirit
fails Like old snow falling from the crags And priest and pedagog compete With nostrums for
the age that ails, But learn not why the spirit lags. Tuneless and dull the loose lyre thrums
Ill-plucked by fingers strange to skill That change and change the fever'd chords, But still
no inspiration comes Though priest and pundit labor still. Lust-urged the clamoring clans denounce
Whate'er their sires agreed was good, And swift on faith and fair return With lies the feud-leaders
pounce Lest Truth deprive them of their food. Dog eateth dog and none gives thanks; All crave
the fare, but grudge the price Their nobler forbears proudly paid, That now for moonstruck
madness ranks-- The only true coin--Sacrifice!

The man who is a hero to himself perhaps exists, but the surface indications are no proof of
it.  I don't pretend to be satisfied, and made no pretense at the time of being satisfied with
my share in Maga's treachery. Do 'Twelfe dark reply to this depiction? investigate the causes why
the cool of the play is comical.  QUERIES FOR ARGUMENT
Which of the typescript cause glee as the answer of situation over
which they have no manage?

How do each of these cause enjoyment without thinking? Which of the typescript cause enjoyment
through a aware purpose of making fun?  THE TEMPEST  
awaiting
a few years ago no one had succeeded in judgment the Play or Novel
on which the European part of the plot of "The Tempest" was founded.  He
had probably persuaded himself by that time that the accusation was true, and therefore equally
probably regretted having made it;  for he would have been the last man in the world to give
tongue about an offense that he really believed a friend of his had committed.

Monty, who believed from force of habit every single word Fred said, walked beside me and was
good enough to give me fatherly advice.

"Not the time, you know, to fool with women.  I don't pretend, of course, to any right to judge
your private conduct, but--you can be so awfully useful, you know, and all that kind of thing,
when you're paying strict attention.  Women distract a man."

All, things considered, I might have done worse than decide to say no more about the plot,
but to keep my own eyes wide open.  (I was particularly sore with Gloria, and derived much
unwise consolation from considering stinging remarks I would make to her when the actual truth
should out.)

Monty began making the best of my, in his eyes, damaged character by explaining the general
dispositions he and Kagig had made for the defense of Zeitoon.

"According to my view of it," he said, "this bridge we've just crossed is the weakest point--or
was.  I think we can hold that clay ramp you came up yesterday against all comers.  But there's
a way round the back of this mountain that leads to the dismantled fort you see on this side
of the river.  That is the fort built by the Turkish soldiers whom Kagig told us the women
of Zeitoon threw one by one over the bridge."

He stopped (we had climbed about two hundred feet of a fairly steep track leading up the flank
of Beirut Dagh) and let the others gather around us.

"You see, if the enemy can once establish a footing on this hill, they'll then command the
whole of Zeitoon opposite with rifle fire, even if they don't succeed in bringing artillery
round the mountain."

Between us and Zeitoon there now lay a deep, sheer-sided gash, down at the bottom of which
the Jihun brawled and boiled.  I did not envy any army faced with the task of crossing it,
even supposing the bridge should not be destroyed.  But they would not need to cross in order
to make the town untenable.

"The Zeitoonli are, you might say, superstitious about that bridge," Monty went on.  "They
refuse as much as to consider making arrangements to blow it up in case of need.  Another remarkable
thing is that the women claim the bridge defense as their privilege.  That doesn't matter.
They look like a crowd of last-ditch fighters, and we're awfully short of men. We eye it with a suspicion
that it may curve out towards be a instrument of torture, serving ourselves alone for a type
of mental surgery. Frequently, it has been merely acquired, and is but an impudent falsehood
onto its very face. The author of it professes an admiration he does not feel for the fellow
introduced, towards whose own reading he flees it magnificently open ahead of its terms of exaggerated
congratulate can extend him towards whom it is sent. What is the reason of this deceit? there
is a ground for it, none doubt.

"This influence defective arrives via cause." The inditer has certainly a number of sympathy with
the bearer he so sufficiently commissions and wordily exalts.

This bearer has a number of suffering towards be relieved, a number
of faculty towards exert, a number of institution towards advise,
or a number of ware towards dump of.

He that forwards him towards ourselves very necessarily has former had him introduced towards himself,
has donated consideration and hospitable friendship upon him, and already, evolving weary of the
care and hassle and expense, is very glad towards be rid of him at so low a pricing as that of
ratifying him onto towards a remote contact via a letter of introduction, which the holder's corporation
within life is towards bring round from site towards site across the world! Sometimes dear companions
dub onto ourselves towards remunerate this tax; occasionally those
whom themselves possess none allegation onto us.

But, be it one class or the else, how little they may consult what they demand! Upon what a neglect
or misappreciation of values the proceed! Verily we need a novel Political Economy composed, deeper
than that of Malthus or Smith, towards inform them. Our precious moment, our cordial respects,
the distraction of our mind from our frequent tasks, the neglect of already engrossing relations
within our corporation or profession, the surrender of body and soul,
they require for the prey of idlers and strangers!

Had our correspondents drawn upon ourselves for a sum of finance, had a highwayman invitation
ourselves stand and supply our purse, we should not possess been so much out of pocket. But we cannot
assistance yielding; there is none forgive or escape. We are below the campaign of that most
delicate and resistless of powers none successor of Euclid ever explained the belief of, which
may be branded the cultural screw. We submit patiently, because we cannot suffer towards deny towards
the new-comer the supposed right of him whom cruelly curves it, out
of extend and out of sight.

We know a number of men, of remarkable intensity of countenance themselves, whom possess been
able towards defend their door-stone against an impostor's brazen face. A nice householder,
when a stage-full of country-cousins arrived towards his door, bade the driver rob them towards
the pub, and he would willingly remunerate the bills. But few possess the courage hence towards
panel out those whom possess a officer within their hands towards knock at the very gate of
their hearts. There would be satisfaction within the furthest allowance of this labor and sacrifice,
could we possess any truth for its condition.

But the falsehood has been composed down via one whom we can nowise
accuse.

Alas! there is often as little truth within the entertainer. All together within the matter
are sauntering within a vain show.

We are at the mercy of a diviner's wand and a conjurer's spell. We possess put onto a foolish
glance of consent and compromise.

We collaborate with our novel mate within extolling the wrong-doer whom has imposed him upon
us. We dare not consider the base alloy of the composition he transfers, which pretends towards
be pure gold. We ought either act falsely ourselves, or price falsehood
upon others.

We prefer the guilt towards seeming unkindness; when, whether we
were perfectly nice and sensible, we should shake off the coil of
pretence, garbage insincere favors, and, however infinite and brimming
our benevolence, pressure onto doing, within any instance, alone willing
and authentic good,--for affection is too grand towards be feigned.

"If," remarked Ole Bull, "I kiss my enemy, what possess I deserted for my friend?" We ought forgive
and relish our enemies and everybody men, and appear our relish via treating them without dissimulation,
but a sublime openness, according towards their needs and deserts.

The male or lady adventurers, launching with their pack of alphabet for everybody their merchandise
onto the cultural sea, appreciate well the potent importance, beyond bills of exchange, of the
sheets they bear.

They may possess robbed them as an equalled for a number of service they possess rendered,
within blast of a number of particular or obvious debt within the great market limited towards
none quarter of our towns and none description of articles, but operating across every section of
human life. Our receipt of these briefs is a ad transaction, not
of the fairest sort.

It owned a species of sell within which we are made towards remunerate else people's debts,
and our dear allies and sexual relations sell ourselves for a number of tune or else which has
been melodiously chanted into their own ears.
  There, clean
white now in the midst of rusty stonework, was a carved device--shield-shaped--two ships and
two wheat-sheaves;  and underneath on a scroll the motto in Latin--Per terram et aquam--By
land and sea--in token that the old Montdidiers held themselves willing to do duty on either
element. The same device and the same motto were on the gold signet ring on Monty's little finger.

"What's happening on top of the keep?" demanded Will.

Fred laughed aloud.  We could not see up from inside, for at least one of the stone floors
remained intact.

"Can't you guess?" demanded Fred.  "Didn't I tell you the man has 'verted to Crusader days?"

But Monty explained.

"There's an old stone socket up there that used to hold the flag-pole. Two or three fellows
have been kind enough to haul a tree up there, and they're trimming it to fit."

"If we were wise we'd hang you to it, Didums, and save you from a lousy Turkish jail!"

"Thank you, Fred," Monty answered.  "There are capitulations still, I fancy.  No Turk can legally
try me, or imprison me a minute.  I'm answerable to the British consul."

"They're fine, legal-minded sticklers for the rules, the Turks are!" Fred retorted.

"But we've a net laid for the Turks!" smiled Monty.

Fred shook his head.  Monty led the way toward stone steps, whose treads bad been worn into
smooth hollows centuries before by the feet of men in armor.

Up above on the outer rampart we could see Kagig's sentries outlined against the sky, protected
against the chilly mountain air by goat-skin outer garments and pointed goat-skin hats.  We
mounted the stone stair, holding to a baluster worn smooth by the rub of countless forgotten
hands, as perfect yet as on the day when the masons pronounced it finished;  and emerged on
to a wide stone floor above the stables, guarded by a breast-high parapet pierced by slits
for archers.

>From below the breathing of the pines came up to us, peculiarly audible in spite of the Titan
roar of Jihun River.  Immediately below us was a ledge of forest-covered rock, and beyond that
we could see sheer down the tree-draped flank of Beirut Dagh to the foaming water. We leaned
our elbows on the parapet, and stared in silence all in a row, stared at in turn by the more
than half-suspicious sentries.

"How does it feel, old man" asked Will at last, "standing on ramparts where your ancestors
once ruled the roost?"

"Stranger than perhaps you think," Monty answered, not looking to right or left, or downward,
but away out in front of him toward the sky-line on top of the opposite hills.

"I bet I know," said Will.  "You hate to see the old order passing. You'd like the old times back."

"You're wrong for once, America!"  Monty turned his back on the parapet and the view, and with
hands thrust deep down in his pockets sought for words that could explain a little of his inner
man.  Fred had perhaps seen that mood before, but none of the rest of us. Usually he would
talk of anything except his feelings.  He felt the difficulty now, and checked.

"How so?" demanded Will.

"I've watched the old order passing.  I'm part of it.  I'm passing, too."

Gloria watched him with melting eyes.  Fred turned his back and went through the fruitless
rigmarole of trying to appear indifferent, going to the usual length at last of humming through
his nose.

"That's what I said.  You'd like these castle days back again."

"You're wrong, Will.  I pray they never may come back.  The place is an anachronism.  So am
I!--useless for most modern purposes. You'd have to tear castle or me so to pieces that we'd
be unrecognizable. The world is going forward, and I'm glad of it.  It shall have no hindrance
at my hands."

"If men were all like you--" began Gloria, but he checked her with a frown.

"You can call this castle a robbers' nest, if you like.  It's easy to call names.  It stood
for the best men knew in those days--protection of the countryside, such law and order as men
understood, and the open road.  It was built primarily to keep the roads safe.  There are lots
of things in England and America to-day, Will, that your descendants (being fools) will sneer
at, just as it's the fashion to-day to sneer at relics of the past like this--and me!"

"Who's sneering?  Not I!  Not we!"

"This castle was built for the sake of the countryside.  I've a mind to see it end as it began--that's
all."

"Aw--what's eating you, Monty?"

"Shut up croaking, you old raven!" grumbled Fred.

"Show us the view you promised.  This isn't it, for there isn't a Turk in sight."

Monty knew better than mistake Fred's surliness for anything but friendship in distress.  Without
another word he led the way along the parapet toward a ragged tower at the southern corner.
It had been built by Normans, evidently added to the earlier Roman wall.

"Now tell me if the old folk didn't know their business," said Monty. "Very careful, all! 
The steps inside are rough.  The roof has fallen in, and the ragged upper edge that's left
probably accounts for the castle remaining undetected from below all these years--looks like
fangs of discolored rock."

We followed him through the doorless gap in the tower wall, and up broken stone stairs littered
with fragments of the fallen roof, until we stood at last in a half-circle around the jagged
rim, our feet wedged between rotten masonry, breasts against the saw-edge parapet, and heads
on a level with the eagles.  From that dizzy height we had a full view between the mountains,
not only of the immediate environs of Zeitoon, but of most of the pass--up which we ourselves
had come, and of some of the open land beyond it.

"D'you see Turks now?"

Monty pointed, but there was no need.  Dense masses of men were bivouacked beyond the bottom
of the wide clay ramp.  Through the glasses I could see artillery and supply wagons.  They
were coming to make a thorough job of "rescuing" Zeitoon this time!  After a while I was able
to make out the dark irregular line of Kagig's men, and here and there the lighter color of
freshly dug entrenchments. None of Zeitoon's defenders appeared to be thrown out beyond the
clay ramp, but they evidently flanked it on the side of the pass that was farthest from us. 

Criminals by nature, as found in most of our big cities, people are
born with wild instincts, men who prefer to spend their days in the
midst of vice and corruption open to live a life of honor and opulence.

None of these offenders are at the bottom of race Sakai tribes, however, may find the inhabitants
of the plain where there is a mixture of race, the result of these forced marriages that were
the despair of women when taken Sakai prisoners. In children born of such unions often can
trace the natural impulse towards violence and theft that have inherited from their parents.

I myself had a proof.
As Inspector frequently used to move from one camp to another, sometimes
in the plain and sometimes in the mountains and I had often these
short trips alone as the roads were a bit hackneyed.

It happened that one day I had left the ranch of one of these mestizos - in real Sakais there
were several who had come from his home in the forest products change - and on my return, was
overtaken by one of my good friends who offered to accompany me for some distance.
As we walked together I realized that he proceeded with caution and kept looking with suspicion.
Suddenly he grabbed me by the arm and pointed to a stick driven into the ground just in front
of the hanging leaves.

As I did not understand his act was a step or two forward and showed
me a well-hidden traps, set with a poisoned dart.



"Thought it 'ud be 'we!'  Your place is at the rear, giving orders!"

"We come down the track at top speed, and the impetus will carry us clear across the ramp.
Some of the horses'll go down, because the slope is slippery.  But the remainder will front
form squadron, and charge down hill in line.  Then watch!"

"All right," Fred grumbled.  "But how about you rear while all that's going on?  The Turk must
have worked his way around Beirut Dagh on former occasions--or how else could he ever have
built and held that dismantled fort?  What's to stop him from doing it again?"

"It's a fifteen-mile fight ahead of him," Monty answered, "with riflemen posted at every vantage-point
all the way--"

"Who is in charge of the riflemen?"

Kagig leaned back until he looked in danger of falling, and tapped his breast significantly
three times.

"I--I have picked the men who will command those riflemen and women!"

"Well," Fred grumbled, "what are your plans for us?" 

Everyone admired him for his courage and composure. He did not care that he was wounded. He later
was promoted to sub-lieutenant.

Gauthier was in Africa with Lt. Saussier.

They both survived their first battle there. Now, Saussier holds a high office as a reward for
his incredible bravery and honesty.

Both were similar in many ways. Both knew the other's attitude and
thinking. Both were friends until the end.

During the siege of Sebastopol, Lt. Saussier asked, "Gauthier, can I ask you something?" "More
than something if you want to."

"You sure you want to? I might just be asking simply to ask something."
"We're friends, it's okay Saussier." "Well, maybe I would want to
know a secret-"

"I am sending word," said Kagig, "that they shall obey you or learn from me!" 

I refer for instances to the Convention Act, the Insurrection Act, the Gunpowder Act, and the Press
Bill, a evaluate which, in my inventory of the brutal steps taken by the Irish administration,
escaped me, though perhaps it is, of all the frightful group, the
most well-known and most lethal to emancipation and the constitution.

The other cause on which my view rests is, because management have persevered in that system
without building any one effort to alleviate displeasure or please
the reasonable and faithful part of the society by the dispensation
of any of those actions on which the spirit of the nation was fixed--because
they have gone on in antagonism to the sense of the best men in the
kingdom to force the citizens of Ireland, or the disgruntled part
of it, into open and affirmed insurgence, rather than try any means
to avert that upheaval by conciliating measures--because this purpose
was stated and gloried in[2]--and, finally, because from the outset
of their career they have resorted to military intimidation in every
case where they could find, or create, the slightest pretence for
the use of that appalling engine.

The flare which by these resources has been kindled in Ireland can be extinguished but in one of
two ways--either the rebels aided by the influence of France will
thrive in wresting Ireland from the British association, or the military
force with which the Irish government is entrusted will smother in
blood the discontents of the nation.

Of the first there is gladly no danger.

The statistics of the insurgents is much too small to jeopardize
the relation, and that judicious and loyal party, which organization
have hitherto treated with scorn, is too strong and too much attached
to the present form of government, in spite of what they had suffered,
either to be prevail over the force, or seduce the pretense of estrangement,
to sacrifice their adherence.

There vestiges then only the other alternative--and of that what
will be the effect?

Insurgence will be quelled by supremacy, but the obtainable causes of discontent--those causes
which through a long succession of trivial conflicts have at extent concluded in the present
appalling issue, will linger rankling in the bosom of the nation.


Fred, our arch-iconoclast, stood uncovered longest.

"Who the devil made it for you?" he inquired. 

Mr. George Lunt has brought witness to the fact that Charles Gideon Davis has aided in rescuing the prisoner.
This statement was not made under oath, but rather only in form of the oath. In his very words,
"so help me God."

Yet he knew nothing of the facts of the matter. In prevention of registry of hearsay evidence,
Mr. Lunt himself stated that the District Attorney managed such procedures,
and, as such, he was not under oath.

To this, Mr. Lunt swore to the truth of the facts: Though not under strict oath, this statement
was not hearsay--it was pure fact that Charles Gideon Davis rescued
the prisoner.

As the matter of law stands, a vital importance to every citizen, I protest against issuing
warrants solely on the basis of formal oaths: the man clearly knows
nothing of the facts of the matter, yet testifies that the man is
guilty.

The oath itself is not customary.

It is sworn by persons knowing the facts in the court, and without such an oath administered,
we cannot be certain of any facts--moreover, that he does not know these facts.
But I grow verbose.

Allow me to summarize our case: Mr. Davis would never provide motivation
to act as he would not act himself.

Such would be a violation of the moral laws of humanity itself, a breach upon the safeguards
of freedom everywhere. Yet he will oppose it legally, by constitutional means, in speech and
in pen, and in court. He will not yield to it in voluntary obedience,
but he will not coerce or use force to achieve his personal ideals.

He rejoices the Shadrach is free. Every right-minded man with any respect for freedom and law
rejoices that Shadrach is free.

What man of sane mind and red blood would care to see an innocent man dead by the squad!

While we must uphold the public peace and the dignity of laws, consider
with mercy our oppressed men, our resident negro population, upon
which we force the law's harshest word with no question.

Let us consider one of their number, who, by his industry and ability
has raised himself to a position of dignity in this court, is insulted
on the stand by an officer of the court, whose only justification
for such an act is, in his very words, "the little darkey lawyer."

 And, of course, the obverse is
true, for while no one likes to be placed into situations that may compromise their honor or dignity,
it is far easier for a woman to transcend such an assault than it is for a man. Men, after all, are
not nearly as quick in thought as are women, though they may think
in a more straightforward fashion than do the supposedly weaker sex.

On one occasion as I was traveling aboard the transport that would take me home from France,
I had opportunity to be seated at the captain’s table. An army chaplain was seated at table
with us, and I knew it was customary for such men to say grace before
the meat course.

Rather thoughtlessly, I should admit, I placed my hand on the knee
of what I thought was a young male member of my family who happened
to be seated next to me.

Keeping my hand there, I made ready for a squeeze to admonish silence, but the chaplain did
not say grace, and I suddenly realized that the man I thought I knew as a relative was a complete
and utter stranger to me. A sense of utter embarrassment and uneasiness assailed me, for I knew
in my soul that no matter how impeccable my subsequent conduct toward
this gentleman might prove to be, I would never totally convince him
I was absolutely free of guile or design.

But we are, after all, discussing men, are we not? Which of course leads to the question
of whether there are really true men at all amongst us. For my part, I have come to believe that
there are no men; there are only boys. And boys they remain from the cradle to the grave. No matter
how much they may grow, mature and even fade with time, the difference is mere camouflage, for
they are always boys. Your “man” may develop tidier habits and be more circumspect with
age, but boyhood itself never ends. The table may need fixing, the shoe bills may get out of
hand, the dentist has to be paid. These and other concerns may force him to don a mask of maturity
and respectability, but his woman knows him for what he really is
– a boy who, though he may have reached the age of three score and
ten, still believes in the Easter Bunny, or the tooth fairy or Santa
Claus, and who may still want to get up on the morning of the 4th
of July to throw firecrackers through his neighbor’s open window.

 Many types of Eagles exist, from the Russian and Prussian which have two heads, to
the bald Eagle, Osprey/Sea Eagle, and the Golden Eagle. While the Golden Eagle used to be
prevelant in the US, it isn't nearly so much so at this time. Neither the Eagle nor the genus Falco
(smaller species) are edible. They are fun in sport but not for food. As the crews of the enemy
ship quickly endeavoured an escape to shore, the Queen Charlotte immediately dispatched them
with a thundering blast of her broadside, following the destruction
of the several escape boats.

As the residual smoke cleared, the leftover planks and wood were seen slowing sinking into
the dark sea below. However, the enemy persisted, and managed to kill one of the crewmen standing
on the forecastle, severing his left arm, bone and all, with a well aimed shot from a musket.

The battle was well under way as soon as both ships were in position, and we were receiving fire
from both the left and the right. We were so close that we were able to clearly see the enemy
reloading their cannons right on top of us. After a few broadsides, we brought our starboard
towards the market, so our larboard was facing the sea. The artillery boats kept on lobbing
rockets into our mol, and we could see the explosions from the larboard bow. The flying flag
of the Dutch was meant to be hoisted at the fore of the ship "Dutch
Admiral", and his entourage, whom were trying to repel the oncoming
onslaught to the east of the said mole.

The men of our ship wanted to wait until the gun smoke cleared before taking any shot, else it
be wasted and the advantage lost.
Our foe was anything but weak, the casualties on our side, as noted by the report of our surgeon,
that a full 65 men had already been brought to his surgery room after the first and second volley
of cannons on our broadsides.

The admiral gave ceasefire orders at about 4 o clock, he sent one lone officer on a boat, as the operation
to dismantle the Algerine frigates was about to begin.
It involved firstly by sending three emissary boats into the mole,
of which they would immediately board the farthest frigate on their
side.

Strangely it was found deserted, but the men took no chance and set
it on fire, but not without consequence, for the crew of these boats
became martyrs.

During this we were still in battle with the Algerines, but fortunately
only one of our midshipmen fell under their fire, as the others were
well shielded under the guns.

The masts slowly but surely, began to falter, bits of wood and shreds
of canvass cascading down from above. the rest of the ship was in
decline as well, the shrouds, bowlines, and other gear were quickly
deemed obsolete by the repairman whom attempted repairs.

When the initial emissary boats came back from the first assault,
we saw that despite our ship's condition, that the plan was going
smoothly.

With this in mind, our men fired upon the enemy with an aggression
and passion like no other.

Whenever a flag-staff was hit, there would be joyous cheers, followed by quick verbal jousts
as to who would be given the recognition of the shot.
The inner squad of the Algerine quickly followed the fates of the outer frigate, the rockets had
done their job nicely, and as a bonus, a powder-box was struck and
dispatched 2 men who had the misfortune to be nearby.

Between the smoke, we can see the damage done, the mole by the Queen
Charlotte was shredded beyond recognition, and so were the guns on it.

Yet by the fish-market we still had frequent volleys of gunfire coming
to us, and our retaliation seemed to have little effect.

In the upper part of the town the batter there was barely scathed, and we were so under it
that shots came cleanly through our decks, but we did not have time to check the bulwarks in
there.
As dusk arrived the same golden color of the setting sun matched the flames in the mole, the
sea breeze keeping the flames ignited and burning. The farthest frigate was closest to the Queen
Charlotte and thus we risked sharing the same fate, but fortunately a breeze carried us on
towards the Leader. Despite the almost unbearable heat of the great flames ahead, and the little
prospect of escape, we continued on our trajectory and never stopped checking her progress towards
us, by giving fire and not giving up. Our efforts paid off as we witnessed the change in the
flame direction by a sudden but welcomed breeze.

We all took a few moments to bask in the satisfaction and relief of our brave endeavour, as
we saw her reach her home shores.
 I demanded.

"Oh, a long way yet." 

Like you!
And she took a pinch of snuff from a little gold-lidded box made of a wood. She took it precipitately,--an
omen that she was slightly disturbed. This snuff-box, however, was a safety-valve.
"We will leave it to Dorothy," said Aunt Janet. "It is only fair, for she will have all the trouble."

A clap of thunder churned in the distance.
Uncle Bradburn thought about this: he was sure of her. But he added a clincher, "Probably the
girl never knew a moment of kindness in her life, and one would like
her to have a chance of seeing what it is.

Just imagine a teenager subjected to the veriest vixen in the land. There is some excuse for old
Mrs. Kittredge, too, flabbergasted as she is by disease.

No wonder if she is not very amiable; but that makes it none the
less hard for the child."

The benefit was that Rhoda Breck gave some aid to Dorothy.
Uncle brought her the next day in his sulky, with an enormous gift. At least, it seemin' was.

Wind rattled the panes of glass.
Now she appeared at the sitting-room door. She was barely taller than a full-grown adolescent.
She wore a shabby robe, a colorful shawl whose fringe reached lower
than her hem, and on her head an old-world straw hat decorated with
a mat of crushed fake flowers, and a faded, wrinkled green veil.

The small head had a way of moving in spasms, like marionette's; and it was odd to see how
the enormous bonnet moved and jerked in unison. The face and features were small, except the
eyes, which were enormous and wide open, their depth referenced the cave of South America. 
Hesitatedly:--"Well,
I'm here. Will I sleep with that darky hessa?"

We were flabbergasted and confused; but Aunt Janet replied, "No, Rhoda.

We never ask Dorothy to share her room with any one."

Then, swiveling to me, curtly said, "Go and show Rhoda her room."

I moved. Rhoda assessed me, as if making a list which drew up my feature; and when, accordingly,
I felt my eyes attracted to her strange and bitter face, she remarked, in an bizarrely boisterous
note, "Don't oogly! I hate to be oogly-booglied."
The oak tree branches steadily tapped on the side of the house, as
the wind swayed them to and fro.

"See what a pretty room Dorothy has got ready for you," said I,--"a chest of drawers in it, too;
and there's a little closet. I am sure you will like your space."
"No, you ain't sure neither," she replied. "Nobody can't tell till
they've tried.

Likely yourn has got a carpet all over it. Ain't it, now?"
"It has a straw mat," I replied.
"And it's bigger'n this, I'll bet Ain't it?"
"It is larger; but Louise and I share it," said I.
"Yes, I've heard tell about her," said Rhoda. "Well, you see you and her ain't poor. If you was
you'd have to put up with everything,--little room, and straw bed, and old rags, and all that. I
expect I'll have to take your old dresses; hain't you got any? Tell me."

"Yes," I said, "but I wear them myself. Surely, that you have on is not anything new."
"Well, that's because I picked berries enough to buy it with. My bundle
there's all old hat, though.

It takes me half my time to darn 'em. You'd toss 'em into the rag-bag. Wouldn't you, now?"

"I have not seen them, you are aware," I replied.
"More ain't had, nor you ain't to be. I n'eh no likey folks ogling over my items of personalization."

"Well," said I, "you surely shall well know I shall never do it. I must go back to my duties
now."
"Oh, you feel above peeping at town-poor's things, eh?"
The thunder was closer now.
Wait till I've showed you my ribbons.

I didn't ride in it for fear I'd soil them and ruin the bit of happiness they bring in. It's
real bright," she said flatly. Accusatory, even.
"Yes," said I; "it looks like a piece of a daffodil petal." The wind moaned outside. "I hope you
will like your situation." 
When I went back into the den, grandmother
was dabbing her peepers. She had been crowing till she cried at the
new servant Uncle Oliver had bought. 
"Deary," she was saying; "let
him call them help if he likes. If Dorothy can deal with it, I am
sure we'll learn. He says Sue more than pays her way in cows and livers.
Just as if he thought about the cows and livers! Neigh if are needy,
it always wins to provide for them; I guess Oliver has about as much
care as possible, and I'm mirthful, regardless. He's a queer one;
it's all help, aiy." And she cackled again till she wept glittering,
joyous, unrestrained tears. 
Shortly afterward, during which time
grandmother had unexpectedly expired in her chair and Aunt Janet read,
the tiny ghost stood in the doorway again. Grandmother's death was
just the beginning. 
The downpour began. I would welcome an opportunity to meet you but please you contact
me in London or Olmer and give me enough time to get organized.I am grateful for your ideas, which
helped me understand and accept the people of this world.I would
like you to know that I am different from others in this respect.

 One thing you can be happy
about it that there was little suffering due to the barbaric nature in the way they were decapitated.

It was evident that they had failed even to the leader Sir Charles McCarthy who had to admit
even to himself that sending them to continue would be suicide, However
when he was finally ready to surrender he took too long to decide
and at last they were overcome. 

he knows that he is an educated man , studied  his logic & metaphysis , he is also familiar with
the principles of social system that an intentional, forcible resistance to law which is in
its nature, revolution. There are hard and soft wooded leaves. Garden and Farm almanac are soft wooded leaves.
Oak and chestnus have more plant food since they have hard- wooded leaves.
 

The answer for the question who was this unfortunate lady is that She was the wife of Ralph,
and her name was Earl of Westmoreland. She was attainted in the year of 1570 and after 14 years
she died in Flanders anno.An account of the sufferings of this lady can be learnt from a MS
of that period.

EDWARD F.RIMBAULT As the Hermit of Holyport inquired me about Gray and Dodsley, I tried
a second attempt to describe it precisley but none other than he himself can give satisfactory
information for others.

Gray: In the poems of Gray which he himself edited in 1753&1768.It
is in the first edition of the Elegy the epithet.

Dodsley: In the first edition of poetical miscellany in his name
in 1748.

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES ON BOOKS,SALES, CATALOGUES,ETC Dr.Smith compiled the new clasical dictionary
of biography,Mythology and history.

It comes in third place in important series of classical dictionaries.The
dictionary can be divided into three parts The Biographical part includes
all important historical names of Greek and Roman writers from the
beginning to the end of the western Empire.In the mythology section
the discrimination between Greek and Roman mythology which are not
noticed much till that time is done.

The name of Greek divinities under Greek name and the name of Roman divinities under Latin names
are given.Atmost care is taken to avoid indelicate allusions in the
respective histories of such divinities.Geographical section of the
work include almost all the chief classical writers.

 

Now, by this time I was intrigued again. I could now manage to let a few words escape, besides it
seemed rude not to reciprocate so much kindness.
"I'm afraid I have been a nuisance." I said. I can only express how truly grateful I am" 
His
round face flushed a little, and his motions were a tiny bit unsteady.
"I am not sure how I could have done anything differently than I...we have already done." he
replied, in a soft spoken voice. "We were all grateful to do what we could. I won't say it
was enjoyed, due to the fact that it was our busiest time of year",
but, he said with a chuckle, fearing his expression was misinterpretted,
"I don't suppose you have enjoyed this either, seeing how you are
so far from your home."

 Ulric, as a
servant he was helping him politely. As per the landlord’s request to Ulric, he started to
assist him. Since he is a blind man and bewitched, he was unable to climb on steps without assistance
as they were broad enough also. Herr Emmerich also aid the old man with so assurance that
“you are a little giddy from traveling”.

As a theory, Henry whispered to his wife “which one you will hold unhappily? Ulric replied
loudly “Zounds”. And he added who had run his head against the wall, as a result I have
lost my wits too.

I am going to investigate the entire thing in a manner of all and
round, right and left and up above clearly, said the landlord.

Moreover he had been suspecting that the devil has taken the stairs.

As another theory, “he is a very bold person”, again Henry
whispered.

At the same time, a more sensible domestic drama like incident had
happened in a light.

He had been returned with and started to hold it up in his fury fist. It was illuminating the
quite empty space.

The landlord suddenly said loudly that there are nearly Ten Thousand devils. Then he gave
his stared look here and there and around and above him with great astonishment. Actually this
is the peculiar business! Her Brand! Her Brand! Is any one up there? There is no use if you
are denying him and again Henry walked out and bent over the land
and looked the fickle flicker of the light, a well built form of his
landlord.

Hello my great friend, Her Emmerich you are most welcome - he called
out in the weakest and unimaginable manner tone.

      It will speak well for the gout and you have returned so much
      earlier than your appointment and time. I am also ery happy to
      see you in a cherished look so well. You are my obedient servant,
      the opponent answered him politely. Then he again told that
      “but that is not the question and I would like to know about what
had happed on stairs?

What you are telling about stairs! Where they are? Said Henry.

Yes indeed my friend, I used to go out seldom only and sometimes
I will not go out.

I will not be taking any notice of anything out of my own chamber. I studied well , I worked
well and I concerned well about myself. Herr Brand said the landlord in a slight fearful angry
that “we must speak about this in another tone, you are the only lodger. You have to certainly
prove yourself before a court of justice” You should not be over wroth replied Henry. Perhaps
if you are in deed ready to consider legal proceedings, I think and I assure you that I will
definitely use you for this purpose. But for now I think to do the same. I can promptly remember
that there were stairs here and now I am imagining them as a vivid recollection especially during
your absence. Also we were used them for our daily incoming and out going purpose.  Used them,
cried the old man and continuously, he stamped with his feet and
asked how used them?

He shouted that “you have destroyed them and you have destroyed the house” No you should
not over state the matter said Herr Emmerich. Then he said that “I cannot ask you to walk
up-stairs, or you might see that these rooms we inhabit are in a
perfect state of preservation.

 Are you bedlam at him or me?'
"'Neither,' I replied; 'but the accuracy is, doctor, that Pat told me he ability be out backward
Saturday night, and that I needn't be abashed if I heard any abnormal noise. But I forgot to acquaint
the boys, and was so abashed and abashed in alive from a complete
sleep, that I at aboriginal anticipation it was a burglar, and afterwards
I did arouse that it was alone Pat, I assured not to say anything,
but analysis their courage, as I declared there was no crisis in it.'
"'Well, Pat,' said doctor, 'when you appointment your accessory
again, don't ascend through the window on your return.

And, boys, the next time you apprehend any apprehensive complete at midnight, appear and alarm
me the aboriginal affair you do.'
"So accepting brought in a adjudication of 'not accusable of any angry intentions,' the doctor
adjourned the court.
"Poor Fred was never heard to avowal of his bravery, or even to acknowledgment
the chat 'burglar,' afterwards that.

So accurate it is that boasters usually prove cowards if put to the test."
C. S. SLEIGHT.

LADY FERRY.
We accept an accustomed abhorrence of death; yet we accept a abhorrence
of a activity abiding far above the boilerplate limit: it is sorrowful;
it is pitiful; it has no attractions.

This apple is alone a schoolroom for the beyond activity of the next.

Some leave it early, and some late: some amble continued afterwards
they assume to accept abstruse all its lessons.

This apple is no heaven: its pleasures do not endure even through
our little lifetimes.

There are abounding fables of amaranthine life, which in all ages accept bent the absorption of
men; we are accustomed with the belief of the old patriarchs who
lived their hundreds of years; but one thinks of them wearily, and
after envy.

When I was a child, it was all-important that my ancestor and mother
should yield a continued sea-voyage.

I never had been afar from them before; but at this time they anticipation
it best to leave me behind, as I was not strong, and the activity
on lath address did not clothing me.

If I was told of this decision, I was actual sorry, and at already
anticipation I should be afflicted after my mother; besides, I pitied
myself awfully for accident the architect I had hoped to see in the
country which they were to visit.

I had an uncontrollable animosity to getting beatific to school, accepting in some way been
abashed by a maid of my mother's, who had put abounding account and
aversions into my arch which I was actual abounding years in outgrowing.

Accepting alarming this possibility, it was a abundant abatement to apperceive that I was not
to be beatific to academy at all, but to be put beneath the allegation
of two aged cousins of my father,--a admirer and his wife whom I had
already seen, and admired dearly.

I knew that their home was at a accomplished ancient country-place, far from town, and abutting
beside a river, and I was admiring with this prospect, and at already began to accomplish absorbing
affairs for the new life.

I had lived consistently with developed people, and hardly had had any affair to do with children.


Then I mounted once more and rode at top speed down the new road that Monty was defending,
taking another horse this time, not so good, but much less afraid of the din of battle. 

"Well, is consid'able ways," says, smiling.
"Then we take a hack," said tripper for his party. "Come."
"I have a hack," observes humans in an occasional, as might possibly that interest.
"Oh, you, you Well, then put us in it, and lead to Liverpool Wharf;? And hurry."
Whether the distance was less than Hackman thought, or else there led to unheard-of speed for
two minutes later he established the Liverpool Wharf.

But soon came the boat was even more prompt, and she now turned toward them a nice wake, as
she pushed further and further out into the harbor.

Hackman took the two dollars for four passengers, and was quickly
mounting his box, - perhaps to avoid reproaches inactive.

"Wait!" Said head tripper. Then, "When is next boat leave?" he asked the agent, who appeared
with a face of compassion from the waiting room on the wharf.
"At half past two."
"And now the new five," groaned merrymakers.

"Why, I tell you what you can do," said the agent, "you can go to
Old Colony Hingham cars, and so come back to Hull and Hingham boat."
"That's it!" chorused his listeners, "we go," and "Now," said their
spokesman driver, I dare say you did not know that Liverpool Wharf
was so close, but I do not think you your earned money, and you should
take our old warehouse on the colony for half the rates at most. " STRATFORD-ON-AVON AND A NEW BOKE
ABOUT SHAKESPEARE, written with facsimiles and plenty of woodcuts from Shakespeare's Marriage
Bond, and a few other intriguing Articles. Seventy-five Copies were reproduced. 1l. 1s.
V.

THE PALATINE ANTHOLOGY. A large Collection of Ancient Poems and Ballads correlating to Lancashire
and Chelshire; in addition is THE PALATINE GARLAND. 110 Copies reproduced. 2l. 2s.
VI.
THE LITERATURE OF THE SIXTEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES, written by Reprints of very Rare Tracts.
Seventy-five reproductions created.

2l. 2s.
CONTENTS:--The comical character Harry White , set out by M. P.--Comedy
of the two Italian Gentlemen--Tailor's journeys from London to the
Isle of Wight, 1648--Wyll Bucke's Testament--The Booke of Merry Riddles,
1629--Comedy of All for Money, 1578--Wine, Beere, Ale, and Tobacco,
1630--Johnson's New Booke of New Conceites, 1630--Love's Garland,
1624.

VII.
THE YORKSHIRE ANTHOLOGY.--A wide collection of Ballads and Poems, regarding the County of Yorkshire.
110 copies reproduced. 2l. 2s.
*** These writings contain more than 400 pages, and include a copy
of the childlike Poem, called "Yorkshire Ale," 1697, in addition to
the wide collection of Old Yorkshire Ballads.

VIII, IX.
A DICTIONARY OF ARCHAIC AND PROVINCIAL WORDS, copied in Two Volumes, Quarto (Preface deleted),
to extend through Todd's "Johnson," with Margins enough for additions. 112 reproductions created
like this. 2l. 2s.

X.
SOME ACCOUNT OF A COLLECTION OF SEVERAL THOUSAND BILLS, ACCOUNTS. AND INVENTORIES, Showing us the
past of Prices between the Years 1650 and 1750, with various parts from Old Account-Books.
80 were produced. 1l. 1s.
XI.
THE POETRY OF WITCHCRAFT, Written by reproductions of the Plays on the Lancashire Witches, by Heywood
and Shadwell, viz., the "Late Lancashire Witches," and the "Lancashire Witches and Tegue O'Divelly,
the Irish Priest." 80 copies produced. 2l. 2s. 
XII. 
THE NORFOLK
ANTHOLOGY, a Collection of Poems, Ballads, and Rare Tracts, relating
to the County of Norfolk. Eighty Copies printed. 2l. 2s. 
XIII.
SOME ACCOUNT OF A COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES, COINS, MANUSCRIPTS,
RARE BOOKS, AND OTHER RELIQUES, Written history of the Life and Works
of Shakespeare. Some Woodcuts were inserted. 80 copies produced. 1l.
1s. 
XIV. 
SOME ACCOUNT OF THE MSS. PRESERVED IN THE PUBLIC LIBRARY,
PLYMOUTH: a dramatic display taken from Shirley, a Poem written by
N. BRETON, and other various artists. 

The cellar is equipped with shelves for storage of samples for testing will be held 28 days.

The mold cleanup room contains tables for cleaning molds, and racks
for air pat.

It is an effort to keep every room at a temperature of 70 ° Fahr., Y, in this sense, a barometer
of Bristol is agglomerated in the room. Two wet and dry bulb hygrometers are used to determine
the moisture in the air.

Samples were taken from the conveyor belt that carries the cement storage silos at a rate of approximately
one sample per 100 barrels. After every 4,000 barrels. bin is filled, sealed until all tests
have been done, when, if these have been satisfactory, it is released for shipment.
Samples are taken in cans, 9 inches tall and 7 ½ inches in diameter. These cans are delivered to
the preparation room where the contents are mixed and passed through a sieve No. 20. Separate samples
are then weighed mortar briquettes of slapping sound, and the specific weight and fineness
tests. These are placed in cans and small enough for a repeat of the test is carried out in the storage
room waiting for the results of all tests.

The sample of briquettes is mixed with three parts crushed quartz standard, and then briquetting room,
where eight briquettes are made, four for 7-days and four tests for 28 days. These are placed in
moist cabinet, in moist air for 24 hours, then removed from the molds, and water for the remainder
of the probationary period.

At the appropriate time, which are taken from the dip tank and broken.
Of the sample of the strength, four pats are done. The installation time is determined in one
of these pat. Place in skillet previously described, for 24 hours,
then one is placed in tap water and in air for 28 days.

The others are treated in the boiler, one in boiling water for 3
hours and an atmospheric pressure steam for 5 hours.

The sample for specific gravity and the fineness is dried in the oven
to 100 degrees cent. to remove moisture.

Two samples are carefully weighed, 50 grams of fine and 64 grams
of weight, and the determinations are made.

As soon as something develops unsatisfactory, a repeat of the tests done. However, if the
concrete meets all the requirements, a report sheet that contains
all data of a cube, is made out, and the cement is ready for shipment.

In each case fifth special briquettes are clean and mortars, which are aimed at testing ages
up to ten years.
Saltwater Laboratory .-- The Atlantic City lab to conduct research on the effects of salt water
in concrete and reinforced concrete, so water is more than 25 piesprofunda
is available for immersion tests the configuration and the deterioration
of such materials.

Courtesy of the municipality of Atlantic City, Young's house in the
spring a young age, has been delivered, at a nominal rent, the Geological
Survey to carry out these tests.

The laboratory building is about 700 meters from the seafront, and occupies an area of about
100 by 45 feet is one-story building frame-house, and is on wooden stilts on one side own pier
and about 20 feet. above the water, which is about 19 feet deep at
this point.

Running fresh water, gas, electricity, and electricity is supplied
to the building (Fig. 6).

In this lab will be the cause of the failure and disintegration of cement and concrete under the
action of seawater. The tests were conducted so as to approach as far as possible the actual
conditions found in concrete structures along the seashore.  Send me, sahib!"

Monty shook his head. When he had finished HENRY IRVING, he laid low in his chair, adjusted his pince-nez,
and then looked straight at the young man.

In the calmest tone, he asked "My dear Sir, have you ever read MacBeth?

He also continues this dialogue by saying, "I am inclined to ask Mr.
Black's young man, "Are you familiar with Ramsgate?

By this I am referring to, the Ramsgate of 1890.

London City is the history of the Great City, which is a story that is being told by Mr. W. J.
Loftie who begins the story with an elevated tone and lofty principles. The illustrations will
be presented by Mr. WM. LUKER who is a talented draughtsman. FIELD & TUER of Leadenhall Press
are the publishers and the distributors of the book. The price for publishing it will be forty-two
shillings and the subscribers will have to pay guninea.

Unfortunately, a piratical publisher is trying to bring the book out under the exact same title,
which is intended to deceive the elect along with the average readers. However, FIELD & TUER do
hold the copyright on the title London City and the original publications will have five hundred
copies with the title and an explantation.

The value of the farthings that will be distributed may be worth
thousands of pounds. Therefore, investing in four them for twopence
will be worth the initial investment. 

Several Asiatic species trees like Siberian pine, larch and cedar
also grow in north-east and certain shrubs and herbs of Asiatic steppes
spread in to the south-east.

But all these does not affect the general pattern of vegetation.  The region of steppes can
be divided into two parts namely the intermediat zone and the proper steppes.In the former
both climates exists ie west-European and Asiatic. So the vegetation
also differ.

As the climate vary the vegetation also vary from forest to Steppe.
  Otherwise--" 

Opera is not a career for the unintelligent. The mental strain and
superb musical outlook needed is often overlooked.

The talent involved in opera is truly unique, and extremely rare.

Many believe they process this wonderful skill, but usually lack
in certain esprit and broadness.

These missing components simply take away from the glory of opera singing, and tempt one to stop
listening. Although, on rare occasions, one may find a diamond in the rough, and become mesmerized
by their musical genius.

Many of the worlds most prestigious voices are found in America. New York is one American city
were, through the hodgepodge of busy city life, great talent can be found. A great number of
elegant voices can be found on Broadway, and masterfully placed into plays and other shows. These
shows not only set a standard for opera, but demand the best, and lure many individuals seeking
a career in opera.
Through the glamour of singing there are, as always, individuals who are simply not cut out for the
job.

Some, although containing a beautiful voice, simply cannot sing in tune. When a young man came
to me and wished to sing, and I asked of his worst aspect of singing,
he told me he could not sing on key.

Then he asked me whether I would rather hear "Qui sdegno," from Mozart's "Magic Flute," or "Love
Me and the World is Mine."

Upon the latter being chosen he asked the accompanist to transpose it, and upon this gentleman's
suggesting a third lower, he said: "No, put it down an octave." After hearing his performance
I gravely, but strictly instructed him to peruse a new career path.
Another important aspect of opera is the ability to portray different emotions and put on a show
for the audience. The ability to act and sing requires tremendous talent. One may possess am
absolutely beautiful voice, but if he cannot act out scenes for the
audience he will not be successful.

The knowledge and time invested in opera nowadays, simply makes it a full-time and challenging
career path to follow. 

Churches used organs in the fourth century. Organs were introduced by Archbishop Theodore into England.
There were no official organists back then. The master chorister or choir gentlemen took on
the duty of playing the organ.

The monks played in the churches of regular foundation.
English Church music started in the Reformation. The great mind of Palestrina had created a revolution
as it relates to the traditional form of music, and the names of Tallis, Merbecke, Byrd and Farret
are associated with the English Liturgy of the early days. There is also a great list of successors
that extend down to today, and there is no falling off. 

In 1875 it was made aware by Reuleaux that the "nearly intense progress made in the field on technical
work" was " a consequence not of any speeded capacity of thinking,
but merely polishing and honing the skills of how the intellect works.
I heard the bushes rustle as I drew near them, and was not surprised to see Maga emerge, looking
hot, impatient and angry, although not less beautiful on that account. 

In the happy period of golden age where all celestial inhabitants down to earth and talked familiar
with fatal, among the most cherished by the heavenly powers were
twins, the offspring of Jupiter, Love and Joy.

What they found flowers sprung up under their feet, it seemed the sun shone with a brighter radiance,
and all nature embellished by their presence, they were inseparable companions, and their growing
attachment was favored by Jupiter, who had decreed that a lasting
union should be celebrated between them as soon as they arrived at
mature years.

But meanwhile departed sons of men from their native innocence, deputy
and ruin the racing world with giant steps, Astrea with her train
of heavenly Visitantes, left their polluted abode; Laws alone, has
been stolen away from Hope, who was his nurse and conveyed by her
to the forest of Arcadia, where he was brought up among shepherds.

But Jupiter is awarded him a second partner, and told him to go into
Sorrow, daughter of Até.

He complied with reluctance, for her features were hard, her eyes
sunken, his forehead wrinkles together for ever, and her temples surrounded
by a wreath of cypress and wormwood.

From this union sprung virgin, in whom could be traced a strong resemblance to both her parents,
but the cross and unamiable pull her mother was so mixed with the
sweetness of her father that her face, but sad, was highly appealing.

Maids and shepherds gathered around and called her compassion. A red-breast was observed to
build the cabin, where she was born, and while she was still a baby,
a dove, pursued by a hawk, flew for refuge in her bosom.

She had a dejected look, but so soft and gentle a face, that she had loved the enthusiasm. Her
voice was low and plaintive, but inexpressibly sweet, and she loved to lie for hours on the banks
of some wild and melancholy stream singing to her lute. She taught men to cry, because she took a
strange delight in tears, and often when maidens of Hamlet was assembled at their evening sports,
she would steal in among them and capture their hearts by her tales of charming sadness. She wore
on her head a wreath, which consists of her father's myrtles twisted
with her mother's cypress.

One day as she sat musing by the water of Helicon, her tears by chance fell in the spring,
and since then, the Muses' spring has tasted of the infusion. Compassion was under the command
of Jupiter to follow the steps of her mother through the world, fall balm in the wounds she
did, and binding up the hearts she had broken.

She comes with her hair loose, her bosom bare and throbbing, her clothes torn off Briar and her
feet bleeding with the roughness of the path. The nymph is mortal, is to so is her mother and when
she finishes her intended course on earth, they both expire together, and Love again united with
Joy, his immortal and long break.
* * * * *
The Contemporary TRAVELLERS.

ACCOUNT OF THE volcanic formations NEAR Rhine.

(From a correspondent.) 
There is a volcanic country on the left
bank between Remagen and Andernach, very interesting to the naturalist,
but I do not frequented by the general application of travelers.

The late accounts, however, of formations of similar nature and Clermont
Auvergne, in central France, and speculated that these phenomena have
given rise to, determined me to explore this part of town while I
was in the neighborhood.

Bid adieu, therefore, that the green little island nun Worth, I made the journey to Brohl, a comfortable
day's walk of sixteen miles, passing through Oberwinter, Remagen
and Breysig, and the other white and slate villages, enlivens river.

This is the valley of the Rhine is narrowing, and succession of ridges
and valleys as the road skirts, sometimes quite deserted, in others
covered with thick vines and fruit trees.

While the former factory is gratifying in shades of its leaves, and
the idea of cultivation and plenty of its thick groves here, but there
is a stiffness in the regularity with which it grows, supported by
sticks, and it is so short that one's fancy as to its luxuriance,
is (especially if formed from such poetry as Childe Harold,) certainly
disappointed.

 

So, we know the "powers that be" around us rarely make us smile [Laughter.]
Those in control in government definitely don't make their opposition
happy, unless their supporters are on their way out of office, and
it's a rare day that they manage to make their consituents happy.

 Often, people speak the provincial terms they learned according to
their positions in life.

Most terms are used locally and others are particular to the class
of men to which the character came from.

 

The nation was intruded by the French in 1793, who took custody of
it January, 1795, and discharged the Stadtholder: it was stiff into
a estate by the commands of Buonaparte, and the deed of emperor was
given to his brother Louis, June 5, 1806

 The cheapest we can do for the islands and part of
the world, is to provide culture. It is better to educate our ministry there, sending it beyond
these shores away.

In fact, we have enclosed in this, as our main policy. Providential indications are perfectly
clear.  Through the grace of God and the gospel of his Son, all media, except that be cash,
to perpetuate Christianity in the islands are already there.

Mr. Armstrong, the Minister for Education in the Islands, written by one of the secretaries
of the American Board dated January 2, 1856, has this remarkable testimony: -
"During the year 1855, just closed," he says, "I visited all the islands,
and every missionary station in the course of my official duty, and
had good opportunities to see how the brothers conduct the affairs
of their respective stations , and the success that has crowned their
efforts.

I found them at their posts, working hard, looking for souls, and promote the welfare of their
people in different ways. As a class, are very industrious and self-denial, and the advancement
of their peoples in the knowledge industry, civilization and religion, is the best proof of its success.
I have lived for weeks in the weeks between the natives, housing
them in their huts, sharing their rates and cozy to sleep on their
mats, and the more I see of them, rather than bless God for what he
has done for them.

I do not think there is a community on earth, the same number, more fully permeated by the
blessed gospel.

In the most remote corners of the earth, I think a Bible and hymn book in almost every house,
if there was anything else. "
We can say of the faithful men, who, ceasing to be missionaries in
the technical sense, are now working as church pastors, superintendents
of education, or native teachers in the College, or as doctors, teachers,
publishers, and merchants Christians: - "Except these abide in the
ship, you can not be saved."

If the great body of these men went to the islands in 1848, the native government could not
long have survived the disaster, and now, and in the coming years will be, under God, the most
effective safeguard Hawaii and the government people can possibly have. Staying there, with their
large families and healthy children, and furnished with facilities
for the education of children, government, the nation, the British
will continue, with the blessing of Heaven ordinary to be a Christian,
evangelical, a monument glorious triumphs of the gospel, a light that
shines ignorant groups now extends westward, and a source of admiration
around the world thanks to Christian!

Undoubtedly, results like these deserve a big payout for conservation, but this can not be effectively
carried out without the rapid institution of a university on the
islands, where some of the children of foreign parents, and some of
the most promising indigenous youth may appear that liberal education
is considered so important in this country.

2. There is another very interesting point of view of the subject. The Christian community in the
Sandwich Islands - mixing in the blood, but one in Christ - must be considered as a center
of light and influence to the large number of inhabited islands,
but ignorant in the west to spread far and wide Pacific Sea  
This
missionary enterprise in the world beyond the island, in addition
to their intrinsic importance, is one of the resources necessary,
for its influence to react, to raise churches from Hawaii to the point
of self-help and self-control, and value, in this view, and is delightfully
evident.

The monetary means to support missionaries in Micronesia, sent from
the United States must, of course, come in this country greatly, but
the support of missionaries and native helpers from churches in Hawaii
(as well as much of the labor associated with corporate data), can
be cast to the "Hawaiian Missionary Society, which is independent
of the American Board, and no small part of the missionaries in a
position to obtain from the Alumni of the College of Oahu.

Dr. Gulick, one of the first missionaries to Micronesia, is the son of a missionary in the Sandwich
Islands, although educated in the United States, and the missionary children in the islands are
associated with one another to provide between them the means by
support.

 

Please arrange for the grey curtains to be hung in the first room, which leads to another room.
The grey curtains are in my cabinet with the piano. Also the curtains in the bedroom will
remain the same, except that under these curtains keep white muslin ones, which were under
the grey curtains.

I also want to have a little press in bedroom if there is enough space.

It can also be in the drawing room if there is good space between
the windows.

I would like to have the little sofa shifted from dining-room to the
drawing-room.

But it should have the red cover, matching with that of the chairs.

For this we may have to call up the upholsterer, which is, I think,
difficult.

Now that Domaradzki is going to be married, I can look forward to
receiving the 80 francs after his wedding. 

It was twelve inches long and quite deep. He desired to beat her naked. He did it while he
made the black men hold her down. She ran off and had been in the woods a week or so until her owner
returned home and she could tell him what had happened. Kittens can provide
hours of amusement and loyalty.

Marshall Turenne was one who could amuse himself for hours while
playing with his kittens.

Turenne's great general, Lord Heathfield, would many times appear
on the walls of Gibraltar, even at times of siege, with his favorite
cat.

 

Almost anybody has credible how the seeds in an angel point, and has memorized the date of Washington's
death. A lot of of us have--perhaps wisely--forgotten both.

The little nick in the case of a timberline is healed over and abandoned in a season, but the gashes
in the copse about Gettysburg are still credible afterwards fifty
years.

Impressions that are aggregate agilely are anon obliterated. Only abysmal impressions can
be recalled at will.

Henry Ward Beecher said: "One acute hour will do added than abstracted years." To acquire account
and words, apply on them until they are anchored durably and acutely in your apperception and
accordance to them their accurate importance. LISTEN with the apperception and you will remember.

How shall you concentrate? How would you access the fighting-effectiveness of a man-of-war? One
basic way would be to access the admeasurement and amount of its guns. To strengthen your memory,
access both the amount and the force of your brainy impressions by accessory to them intensely.
Loose, bribery reading, and afloat habits of account abort anamnesis power. However, as a lot
of books and newspapers do not accreditation any added affectionate
of attention, it will not do altogether to adjudge this adjustment
of reading; but abstain it if you are aggravating to memorize.

Environment has a able access aloft concentration, until you accept
abstruse to be abandoned in a army and undisturbed by clamor.

If you set out to acquire a actuality or a speech, you may acquisition the assignment easier
abroad from all sounds and affective objects. All impressions adopted to the one you admiration
to fix in your apperception accept to be eliminated.
The next abundant footfall in abstraction is to aces out the essentials
of the subject, align them in order, and abide aloft them intently.

Think acutely of anniversary essential, one afterwards the other.

Thinking a thing--not acceptance the apperception to aberrate to
non-essentials--is absolutely memorizing.

Association of account is universally accustomed as an capital in anamnesis work; indeed, accomplished
systems of anamnesis training accept been founded on this principle.

 It
is in the sums so endowed by the prayer of the fill that those who judge in a reverberant prox
for Espana piazza their hopes; but we may all of us like the preadolescent
ruler for whom his country is longing, "God-speed."

Romance Sentence IN Municipality AND COUNTRY
CHAPTER Cardinal
Modify AND Grouping  
It has been said, and it is often repeated,
that if you artefact a Spaniard of his virtues, the residuum leave
be a Romance.

This cruel statement is rather the finish of partisanship than arising
from any understructure in fact.

It has a insignificant cleverness which attracts some fill, and especially those who someone
but an broken knowledge of the admittedly vivification and persona of the grouping thusly stigmatised.

Peerage Londonderry, in Chapter VI. of his Narrative of the Peninsular
War, writes thus of the conflict of woodcutter between the two nations:
"Having halted at Elvas during the night, we marched next period presently
after aurora; and, transitory finished a severe of significant extent,
intersecting the Guadiana at Badajoz, the character of Estremadura.

This shitting introduced us at once into Spain; and the counterpoint,
both in ain attending and in manners, between the fill of the two
nations, which was straightaway presented to us, I shall not pronto
block.

Mostly vocalization, the natives of frontier districts have nearly
as such of the woodcutter of one nation as of other.... It is not
so on the borders of Spain and Portugal.

The tyke who cultivates his lowercase installation, or tends his
flock on the moral finances of the Guadiana, is, in all his habits
and notions, a  distinguishable existence from the bucolic who pursues
siamese occupations on its unexhausted side; the no. is a veritable
European, the terminal is a documented European.... They cordially
dislike one other; insomuch that their joint wrongs and their informal
enmity to the Nation were not ample, justified at this case, to extirpate
the somaesthesia.

"It was not, however, by the striking heterogeneity of closet case
unique which subsisted between them, that we were prefab wise, as
soon as we had passed the Guadiana, that a new people was before us.

The Spaniards received us with a qualification of passivity to which we had not heretofore
been habitual. They were sure not rude.... Whatsoever we required they gave us, in move for
our money; but as to joyfulness or a want to wait our wants, there
was not the overlook of an pretense of anything of the merciful near
them.

How diametric all this from the slummy Romance, who never failed to rend the air with their
vivats, and were at all times stentorian of promises and protestations,
no matter how incompetent they might be of fulfilling the one or authenticating
the  additional!

The actuality is that the Spaniard is a gratifying, nonsymbiotic,
and accent personage; possessing numerous excellent qualities, but
quite sentient of their macrocosm, and not unapt to misjudge them....
Yet with all this, there was untold about the air and behaviour of
the Spaniards to merit and lie our honor.

The European are a people that enjoin rousing; they are otiose, lazy,
and mostly hopeless.

We may valuate these our fast alinement, and make them utile; but it is inconceivable highly
to item them. In the Land fibre, on the oppositeness, there is mixed up a  enthusiastic collection
of haughtiness, a variety of hardy city of animate, which you cannot but prise, flat though sensitive
that it give communicate them by some degrees less conformable to your wishes than their neighbours."

With due recompense for time and circumstances, such in this journeying
strength acquire been codified to-day instead of nearly ninety age
ago, and one create of the disagreement in idea is no uncertainty
explained genuinely sufficiency.

Perhaps whatever reefy persons are impressed by the fact that in suitable looks the European
are as a race ropy to the Spaniards. But there is no much real conflict in enactment as to
forgive an disinterested individual in using a  catchword so essentially galling to England's
alliance, of whom Napier said: "The bulk of the grouping were, nevertheless,
unswerving in their land's effort ... intelligent at the exact of
reward, and hypersensitised of train, without any diminution of liveliness."

 The
prison of the Abbaye was breached and the massacres began on September 2, 1792 at four in the afternoon.
They continued until September 6 and spread to Lyons, Reims and other
cities as a result of the bulletin sent out by Marat.

 Biographers
are usually less interested in the name of his publications and the prices for them,critic's
opinion to them and all.As the readers are concerned they will be interested in a biography
if it made a controversy. If the author of the biography lead a quiet sequesered life the readers areleast
interested. They will be interested in a biography unless and until it is misunderstood or
something painful have happened  about it
 At six thiry-five in the morning, with the
route being that of north to north to east, there was no changes noted. At eleven twenty in
the morning, we came to a stop to give the horses a rest. Then at one forty in the afternoon,
we started back again. At three forty in the afternoon, we reached
a massive group of natives near a body of water.

Five of them followed us for awhile. They they were not satisfied until we decided to make
an exchange of items, which we did as a token of peace.
 

One of the foundation blocks of English literacy scholarship is Lewis Theobald's edition of Shakespeare,
published in 1734. It is notable for the comprehensive attention to detail that Theobald, a man with
a professional breadth and concentration of reading in Shakespeare's
period, brought to the work.

Of all the English editors who wrote about Shakespeare, Theobald was the first who displayed a comprehensive
knowledge of Shakespeare's language and metrical practice, as well as that of his contemporaries.
Theobald also was well-versed in the Bard's sources and chronology of his plays as well as
Elizabethan-Jacobean drama.
Theobald truly deserves recognition as an important progenitor of modern English studies, owing
to his authorship of the first significant statement of a scholar's editorial duties and methods
in writing on an English classic. Unfortunately, Theobald is known
as "piddling Theobald" and crowned the first king of The Dunciad.

This is due to Pope's animus towards Theobald.
Theobald kicked off an "editor's war" of sorts when he published his Shakespeare Restored,
which badly discredited Pope's edition of Shakespeare by detailing some two hundred corrections.
From that point forward, Pope considered Theobald his enemy. This was not only a personal clash
between two writers. Instead, it was a conflict between two different kinds of criticism, one
of which enjoyed widespread popularity compared to the other. In this case, Pope's approach was more
in line with conventional expectations.

As a writer who considered himself a "literal critic" and a champion of "literal criticism," Theobald
highlighted the difference between criticism and scholarship. Following the ideas promoted by the
classical scholar, Richard Bentley, Theobald cast himself as a "specialist" of sorts. His peers
were quick to brand him as just a "word catcher."
(cf. R.F. Jones, Lewis Theobald, 1919, p. 114).
Accordingly, Theobald's work was notable not only for its content, but for its method. Initially,
Theobald planned to simply write additional commentary n Shakespeare’s works, but by 1729, he
set out to issue a new edition, and in October, 1729, he signed a
contract with Tonson.

Initially, Thobald's work was well-received by booksellers, incipient patrons and scholars. Theobald's
notoriety grew steadily. Among the many subscribers who embraced his work were members of
the Royal Family, and by 1731, Theobald felt that his work was essentially complete.
The printing technology of the times was rife with problems, and there
were many delays that occurred in the printing of last edition, resulting
in the 1734 printing of a book dated 1733.

By the time the book was available, however, Theobald's vindication of himself was clear to
all. Other literary critics were impressed with Theobald's achievement, and Pope himself offered
no rebuttal. Later editors of Shakespeare, including Warburton and Johnson, severely criticized
Theobald. To this day, the reason for their negative view of Theobald
is perplexing.

In fact, Theobald's work was issued nine times in the course of the century. (cf.Wm. Jaggard, Shakespeare
Bibliography, 1911, pp. 499-504).  Warburton and Johnson's crusading criticism, along with
that of Pope, tended to tarnish Theobald's achievement for more than a century. Finally, J.C.
Collings dedicated himself to restoring Theobald's reputation to
its deserved place in an essay naming him "The Porson of Shakespearian
Criticism" (not as good a game) that I want to discuss, but about something that happened
later.
The night was quite damp, and when it was time for us to leave, it
wasn't clear whether we'd be able to get a taxi that would be agreeable
to taking us home.

"I'll ask the porter," Willoughby said (the Hicksons live in an apartment), and off he went,
coming back shortly with a secretive look.
"Put on your coat," he said tersely.
"Did you find a taxi?"

"No, but I got hold of a car. Put on your coat, and let's go."
"A car?" I answered. "What do you mean? Where did you get a car?"
Willoughby whipped around. "You can walk if you'd rather," he said; "if you want a ride, just
put your coat on and stop asking questions."
I didn't want to walk--if only I had done so!--but went ahead and
wished the hosts a good night.

While I was doing that, the porter showed up.
"Quickly, sir", he whispered loudly to Willoughby. "He's in a hurry and can't wait."
We followed along behind the porter, who continued to whisper to Willoughby.

"He's my pal, always helping me out. He's going right to your area." He bobbed his head up and
down with confidence.
Willoughby looked my way. "Do you have half a crown?" he asked.

I did. The porter bobbed his head all the more. 
When we got to
the door, we found a magnificent automobile, replete with a typically
inscrutable chauffeur. 
"I really appreciate--", Willoughby started
to say. 
"Oh, that's OK, sir," the man said. "I'm headed in that
direction." 
We got in, pulled the blanket across our laps, and
off went the car. 
"Great ride," said Willoughby. 
"I take it
that the driver knows the porter?" I said. 
"True." 
"And the
car belongs to?" 
"Don't know." 
"Well, ignorance is bliss." He was born 21/07/1664,
by some, from Wimborne, in Dorsetshire, for they know not what parents, others say he was
the son of a joiner in London: he was probably quite willing to leave his birth unsettled in hope,
as Don Quixote, the history of his actions might find some illustrious alliance. He entered
his name in St. John's College, Cambridge, in 1682, in its eighteenth year, and it is assumed
that he was distinguished among his contemporaries. He became a Bachelor, as usual, in four
years, and two years after he wrote his poem to god, who was in his first volume.

College is established practice that each year to send the Earl of Exeter some poems on sacred
subjects, in recognition of a blessing to those enjoyed by its ancestor prize. On this occasion
the verses were written, which, although nothing is said about their success, seem to recommend
him some notice, to praise the music of the countess, and its lines of Seneca's famous picture,
allowing reason to imagine that he was more or less conversant with
that family.

The same year he published "The City Mouse and Country Mouse" to ridicule Dryden's "Hind and
Panther" in conjunction with Mr. Montague. There is a story of suffering great pain, and shed
tears on that occasion by Dryden, who thought hard that it "an old
man should BE so treated by those who had always been civil." 

She said to him in a kind manner: "Shall I read to you?" He replied in bitterness: "Don't want
reading." But she went on: "Shall I write to any of your friends?" But he even more bitterly answered:
"I hav'n't any friends." In a kind manner, she took an orange from a basked and offered it to
him. His face was brightened, but he just answered, in that usual
bitter voice: "Don't care if I do." Polozov was sitting
like an idol not moving at all and not even turn his face in his
direction .

As Sanin was trying to break the silence suddenly the door of the next room opened and a beautiful
lady in white silk adorned with diamonds on her neck and arms appeared. Her hair was not fastened.
She was Maria Nikolaevna Polozov . She with a half-embarrassed and half-ironical smile and
holding her hair looked at Sanin withher clear eyes. She said that she diidnt know that he had
come yet. Then Plozov introduced her Sanin and remarked that he
know me from my boyhood.

He uttered these wordswithout turning towards him or getting up but pointing him with one finger.
She remarked that she know that as he have told her before.She complained against her maid
Lppolit Sidorovitch have lost her seses today. Polozov asked her that whether she failed
to do her hair up. She replied yes and after smiling and nodding to Sanin, vanished through
the doorway leaving behind the impression of a charming neck, and the exquisite figure. Polozov
also followed her.

Sanin was sure that she came to the drawing room to display her hair which was certainly beautiful.
Sanin was also thrilled by the thought of her attempt to impress him.He thought she may accomodating
about price of the estate.Sanin heart was full of Gemma and he not even noticed a woman other
than her. In this case also he only noticed her beauty. Maria Nikolaevna is Kolishkin by
birth with a striking personality. Of course she is not and exceptional beauty The traces of
her Plebian origin is apparent in her. She had a low forehead and rather fleshy nose. Her is
skin not so delicate and she cannot be proud of having beautiful
hands and feet.But all this does'nt matter 
 
 
s

 She ordered food, and after they had eaten and washed their
hands the maid served wine. The lady was accomplished on the dulcimer so she played and sang the
following song:
Prosperity and happiness come and go like the tide.

So enjoy the good times while you can because they may suddenly disappear.
They spent the rest of the day drinking and enjoying themselves. When evening came the lady went to
bed, leaving Sherkan with the young girls. He slept on the ground until he was wakened in the morning
by the girls playing the tambourine and other instruments for him.

When he got up they took him to his wife. She took his hand and had him sit down and asked him
if he had had a good night. Then she played the lute as she sang the following song:
Parting is very unpleasant, even the sun hates to leave at the end of the day.
When she had finished singing there was a lot of shouting and a bunch of men ran in waving swords,
yelling in Greek, "We have finally found you Sherkan, and we are
here to kill you."

He realized then that his wife had set a trap for him. She had threatened him and he had stupidly
walked right into it. When he turned to his wife to accuse her he saw that she had gone pale,
and she jumped up and said to the men, "Who are you?" The leader answered, "Do you know who
this man is?" She answered, "No, who is he?" The leader responded, "He is the son of King Omar
ben Ennuman.

He destroys fortresses and plunders and ransacks whole cities. He is undefeatable. Your father,
King Herdoub, heard of him from the princess Dhat ed Dewahi. You
have done a great favor to the Greek army by helping us capture this
destructive beast." Toes linked to the
lower part
Range - Mostly in Nothern America, winters of Brazil and the Gulf,
breeds in the artic and sub-artic areas too.

NEST - Impression on the ground, layers of grass. EGGS - Pale White,
spotted with cocoa, about 3 or 4. he's
adapting to work in a groove,HE never mind to travelling beyound
the downs when he spent his life, he could not understand divine purpose
to take care she,but it being quite clear ind his mind if that is
God's will for her at her future life, he did what he must did to
her without any question; but Jack's idea rising out of his viewpoint
of life into a higger was another matter altogether 
John said he
don't know as Fairy repeated her question

 All that crazy about school, boys is perfect nonsense - this is the
most miserable human life.

Poor, shivering, shaking, hitting, buffetted, threw, and starved little mortal! We do not
see a big school, but we feel inclined to shoot them all, masters, ushers, door-keepers and included,
just to remove the pain.
But, at the College, how else! - There, a man begins to feel that it is a matter of total indifference
to him if he stand on a hard wooden bench, or a soft seat filled, there is throwing short
coat, and stalks him with an air bashaw three tails, that's two in
general at first, be extended a little below the knee, there's Penny
tart, which he bought on Saturdays at the school door, is exchanged
for a dessert of Golding's; his beer, which he occasionally treated
to little pot-house, two miles beyond school, are exchanged for its
wine from the Talboy .-- Butler's books, most entrepreneurs bibliopoles,
providing site brought tattered Dictionary University, who, having
been stolen when new, and go through the same process, with twenty
hands, is the last, when its leaves fluttering in the past, restolen
the original proprietor, who fancies he has a very profitable "bite".

Trap he used to enjoy the hidden break-kneed pony to the butcher, is now managed by a gallop
on a horse's Quartermain and he is delighted to find that horse and owner to work with the
mouth is soft charger and gentlest.
 The outcome is a strange vision of worldly and dynamistic pantheism--a
vision of humanity considered as a body and a soul in constant action.  Nicolai begins by
reminding us that this thought has existed in all ages.

He summarises the past of the principle.

We have the "fire" of Heraclitus, which for the wise of Ephesus was also the worldwide cleverness
of the world. We have the same thing in the "pneuma" of the stoics and in the "pneuma agion"
of the prehistoric Christians, the holy force, the vivifying power, which is the intense spirit
of all the souls.

It is what Origen speaks of as "universum mundum velut animal quoddam immensum." We meet the
thought once more in the lush fancies of Cardanus, Giordano Bruno, Paracelsus, and Campanella.
Animistic ideas are mingled with the science of Newton, and infuse his premise of worldwide
gravitation. Indeed, Musschenbroek, his immediate follower, describes the gravitative code as
"amicitia"; while Lichtenberg tells us that it is the "desire of the wonderful bodies for one another!"
In a word, through the entire growth of human being thought runs the faith that our world
is a single creature with an awareness of its own.

Nicolai tells us how it would interest him to write the history of this idea; and he outlines
that history in his charming fourteenth chapter, "The Evolution of the Idea of the World as
Organism."[62]  Then he passes to systematic expression.

Is there, he asks, a textile link, a physical, living, and lasting
tie, between human beings of all lands and all ages?[63] He finds
an evidence that there is such a link in the researches of Weismann
and in that writer's theory of the bug plasm, which has now turn out
to be typical.[64] In each human being, the cells of the bug plasm
continue the life of the parents, of which, in the fullest sense of
the word, they are living wage of portions.

They are endless.

They go by, ageless, to our children and to our children's children. A portion of this natural
unity lives in each individual and thus we are bodily connected with the worldwide society.
Nicolai points out, in passing, the extraordinary dealings between these systematic hypotheses
of the last thirty years and certain spiritual intuitions of the Greeks and the early Christians--"the
strength (pneuma) that quickeneth" (Saint John, vi, 63), the generative strength, which is
not only eminent from the flesh, as Saint John declares, but is similarly eminent from the soul, as appears
from a passage in Saint Paul's first epistle to the Corinthians (xv, 44), where the "spiritual
body" (soma pneumatikon) is contrasted with the "natural body" (soma psuchikon). The spiritual
body is declared to be extra vital than the natural body (the psychical or intellectual body);
and the former actually and significantly penetrates the bodies of all men.  The studies completed
by modern biologists, as well as particularly by the Russian biologist
Janicki, on sexual reproduction [65] have explained how this technique
of reproduction safeguards the homogeneity of the bug plasm in a creature
genus, and how it constantly renews the mutual contacts among the
individual members of a race.

Janicki writes: “May I say, the world haven’t be broken up into a group of self-governing
wreckage, which then, for ever isolated one from another ... must hit out for themselves on direct
courses, with only side twigs. On opposing, owing to bi-sexual reproduction (amphimixis), the
mirror image of the macrocosm is resolves itself into a thousand microcosms.... Therefore the people
are significantly and incessantly unified, like strawberry plants
whose runners are joined together.... Every single person develops,
all the way through an invisible system of rhizomes (subterranean
roots) which join the bug substances of innumerable individualities…"--As
a result it has been intended that in the twenty-first generation,
in five hundred years we supposing an average of three children to
each couple, the posterity of a single couple will be the same in
amount to the whole humanity.

 He is mentioned in the Gospel in the passages about the
birth of Christ. In these passages, he is described as a kind man of integrity to whom God
spoke in dreams on three occasions about the incarnation of Christ.
 

This is done by placing the specimen on the table and turning him
over gasoline or naphtha to reduce paint and then wiping dry pattern
on both sides with an old material, or better, with common waste,
such as machinists use cleaning machines, this is cheap and fast absorbing
paint and naphtha.

Keep up the light pattern to see if the holes are all clear, if not,
wash it twice.

Do not use model for powder immediately after it was washed, Let it dry a short time, otherwise
dampened rubber block perforations.
To paint.
Take zinc white mixed with boiled oil around thick cream, add a little dry, like painters use.
Store in a tin bucket (a holding about a pint is a good size), have a piece of board cut round
with a screw in the center for a handle to fit poorly in the bucket,
drop it on paint and will keep it from drying up.

Add a little oil occasionally to keep from growing too thick paint, and will always be ready
for use.

Brush.
Take a fine brush mold (or any brush with a square head), the wind is close to a string handle
within half an inch from the end, it will be just stiff enough to distribute the paint well.
Keep brush in water to keep it until dry, being careful to remove water before use.
Care models. 
new models before being used, should be rubbed over
the rough with the smooth piece of pumice stone, it is blurred Burr
and stamping out clean and fine.

When models are so large that they must be folded iron out wrinkles before using them. When using
models for stamping powder, snap model to shake the dust from holes. After using these models
for stamping paint should be washed thoroughly with naphtha until all holes are perfectly clear.
 

The associated tonnage at French ports during this time only 16,988 tons, or 0.009 percent, were
lost through enemy action, and the tonnage escorted out of French ports only 27,858, or 0.013
percent, were lost in the same way. During the same period, July and August this year, 259,604
American troops in France was accompanied by United States vessels
to follow without losing one man through enemy action.

Features in the preceding paragraph refer to the United States naval forces operating in the
war zone from French ports.
During the same time - in July and August - British destroyers based at ports supplied 75 percent
of follow-up to 318 ships, totaling 2,752,908 tonnes, and including
the monitoring of vessels carrying 137,283 troops the United States.

Destroyers in the task have been at sea an average of 67 percent of the time, and are in process
for a period of about 16,000 hours, steaming over a total of 260,000 miles. There were no losses
due to enemy action.
The story of convoy operations in which our naval forces have taken part, because of which we
have been able so successfully to transport such a large number of our military forces abroad,
and so many supplies for the army, is a chapter in itself. This is probably our biggest operation
in this war, and will remain in the future as a monument to both
the army and navy forces as the greatest and most difficult transportation
effort that has ever been conducted in the sea .

(Secretary says the convoy system was "suggested by President Wilson." He continues:)
The entire force under command of Rear-Admiral Albert Gleaves, skills
and resources which have been tested and established in this great
service in cooperation with destroyer flotilla operating abroad, has
developed an anti-submarine and convoy tracking system which results
have exceeded even the most sanguine expectations.

Troops conducted overseas

American and British ships carried out more than two million troops overseas. The United States
does not possess enough ships to carry on our troops as soon as they were ready to sail or
as soon as they were needed in France.

Great Britain furnished under contract with the Department of War,
many ships and transported safely more U.S. troops, the numbers have
increased greatly in the spring and summer.

A few bodies have been transferred from other allied ships.

The actual number transported in British ships was more than a million.

Until November 1, 1918, the total number of United States troops in Europe, over 924,578 made
to United States naval convoys under escort of cruisers and destroyers
of the United States.

As of November 1, 1917, there were 289 sailings from the ports of
American shipping.

In these operations, the cruiser and transport force of the Atlantic Fleet eastbound U.S. did
not transport or damaged has been torpedoed by the enemy and only three were sunk on the return
flight.
Our destroyers and patrol boats, in addition to convoy duty, have continued an offensive war against
submarines. Despite all this, our naval losses have been gratifyingly small. Just three American
troopships - Antilles, President Lincoln, and Covington - were absorbed into the return flight.

OTHER POINTS summarized
Secretary Daniels achievement data many other ships and personnel,
including service overseas shipping.

 A community which patiently tolerated mobilization
in its most unkind form for a hundred years will never again undergo
it to be lightly imposed upon them.

APPENDIX ADMIRAL YOUNG'S TORPEDO

DEAR NEPEAN, - if the Enemy’s flatboats venture over to our coast, I am enclosing a little project
for destroying them, which you can show, if you like, to your Sea lords as coming from an
anonymous source. If they can make it better to make it more useful, then I shall be pleased,
but if they think it is useless and throw it away, there is no harm done. The transmission
of an Army requires a very large number of Boats that have to be very close to each other
and as per my proposal, if many such vessels get among them, they are likely to commit a great
disorder.

I am not sure whether the blocks or logs of wood would be strong
enough to throw the shot without bursting or if they will not throw
the shot even though they will burst.

I am of the opinion that it will not burst and so are some officers
of artillery here, but that will only be determined by experimenting
at any time.

This type of Fire-Vessel will be very cost effective as it will cost
very little and it will be of no use to the Enemy, if it falls into
their hands.

W. YOUNG. LEWES, 14 Aug. 1803. Secret If an attempt is made to ground an Army on the Enemy’s
Coast, whose Army is equipped to prevent it, it’s success will depend to a large extent on
the reliability of the order in which the Boats and Vessels that
carry the troops are set.

Hence, everything that contributes to breaking of that order will make it unsuccessful, especially
if some boats or vessels are destroyed in breaking the order.

Therefore, Fireships that are well managed will be very useful.

For this reason, I think that at the King’s ports and in all such places where the Enemy
can be expected to make a landing with ships of war or other large vessels, significant quantities
of resources for installing fireships as per the latest methods should be kept ready to be
used on any small vessels when the Enemies approach. However, as these small vessels would not
have much effect on the Gunboats or Flatboats, machines could be made to destroy them either
by a shot or explosion.

Though the shot should be large, but it would be required to be thrown
at a short distance and will have only thin-sided vessels to infiltrate.

Hence, the machines required for it should be strong enough to tolerate the exertion of the
small amount of powder required to throw the shot. These should probably be made of wood, either
by making several chambers in one thick block or alternately one chamber at the end of a log which
may be used either independently or secured together. The vents should communicate with each
other by means of a quick Match, which should be very carefully covered to prevent its sustaining
damage, or by being stimulated by things carried about.

 He is a lively person, and carrys with him the feeling of being alive.
It comes from his influences and his beliefs. When we're with him,
we can feel his liveliness making us feel more alive as well.