A few days have elapsed since the conflagration of M. Hardy's factory. The following scene
takes place in the Rue Clovis, in the house where Rodin had lodged, and which was still inhabited
by Rose-Pompon, who, without the least scruple, availed herself of the household arrangements
of her friend Philemon. It was about noon, and Rose-Pompon, alone in the chamber of the student,
who was still absent, was breakfasting very gayly by the fireside; but how singular a breakfast!
what a queer fire! how strange an apartment!

Imagine a large room, lighted by two windows without curtains--for as they looked on empty
space, the lodger had fear of being overlooked. One side of this apartment served as a wardrobe,
for there was suspended Rose-Pompon's flashy costume of debardeur, not far from the boat-man's
jacket of Philemon, with his large trousers of coarse, gray stuff, covered with pitch (shiver
my timbers!), just as if this intrepid mariner had bunked in the forecastle of a frigate, during
a voyage round the globe. A gown of Rose Pompon's hung gracefully over a pair of pantaloons,
the legs of which seemed to come from beneath the petticoat. 

The purpose for taking the tragic with the sensuality and then.

156.

Madness is something rare in individuals - but in groups, parties,
peoples, times the rule.

157.

The thought of suicide is a strong consolation: with him to get well
over some evil night away.

158.

Our strongest impulses, the tyrant in us, are subjected not
only our reason, but our conscience.

159.

We must reward, good and
bad: but why the person we good or That bad? When Philemon was drunk,
he used to contemplate this bony emblem of mortality, and break out into the most poetical
monologues, with regard to this philosophical contrast between death and the mad pleasures
of life. Two or three plaster casts, with their noses and chins more or less injured, were
fastened to the wall, and bore witness to the temporary curiosity which Philemon had felt with
regard to phrenological science, from the patient and serious study of which he had drawn the
following logical conclusion:--That, having to an alarming extent the bump of getting into
debt, he ought to resign himself to the fatality of this organization, and accept the inconvenience
of creditors as a vital necessity. On the chimney-piece, stood uninjured, in all its majesty,
the magnificent rowing-club drinking-glass, a china teapot without a spout, and an inkstand
of black wood, the glass mouth of which was covered by a coat of greenish and mossy mould.
From time to time, the silence of this retreat was interrupted by the cooing of pigeons, which
Rose-Pompon had established with cordial hospitality in the little study. Chilly as a quail,
Rose-Pompon crept close to the fire, and at the same time seemed to enjoy the warmth of a bright
ray of sunshine, which enveloped her in its golden light. This droll little creature was dressed
in the oddest costume, which, however, displayed to advantage the freshness of her piquant
and pretty countenance, crowned with its fine, fair hair, always neatly combed and arranged
the first thing in the morning. By way of dressing-gown, Rose-Pompon had ingeniously drawn
over her linen, the ample scarlet flannel shirt which belonged to Philemon's official garb
in the rowing-club; the collar, open and turned down, displayed the whiteness of the young
girl's under garment, as also of her neck and shoulders, on whose firm and polished surface
the scarlet shirt seemed to cast a rosy light. The grisette's fresh and dimpled arms half protruded
from the large, turned-up sleeves; and her charming legs were also half visible, crossed one
over the other, and clothed in neat white stockings, and boots. A black silk cravat formed
the girdle which fastened the shirt round the wasp-like waist of Rose-Pompon, just above those
hips, worthy of the enthusiasm of a modern Phidias, and which gave to this style of dress a
grace very original.

We have said, that the breakfast of Rose-Pompon was singular. You shall judge. On a little
table placed before her, was a wash-hand-basin, into which she had recently plunged her fresh
face, bathing it in pure water. From the bottom of this basin, now transformed into a salad-bowl,
Rose Pompon took with the tips of her fingers large green leaves, dripping with vinegar, and
crunched them between her tiny white teeth, whose enamel was too hard to allow them to be set
on edge. 

It was now - I can not say exactly what day - it was certainly the most glorious Days in the life
Akaky that Petrovitch brought the cloak at last. In the morning, at exactly the moment when
the titular had the office. Her dessert was composed of nuts, which she
prepared to roast on a red-hot shovel. That Rose-Pompon, with such an unaccountable savage
choice of food, should retain a freshness of complexion worthy of her name, is one of those
miracles, which reveal the mighty power of youth and health. When she had eaten her salad,
Rose-Pompon was about to begin upon her olives, when a low knock was heard at the door, which
was modestly bolted on the inside.

"Who is there?" said Rose-Pompon.

"A friend--the oldest of the old," replied a sonorous, jovial voice. "Why do you lock yourself in?"

"What! is it you, Ninny Moulin?"

"Yes, my beloved pupil. Open quickly. Time presses."

"Open to you? Oh, I dare say!--that would be pretty, the figure I am!"

"I believe you! what does it matter what figure you are? It would be very pretty, thou rosiest
of all the roses with which Cupid ever adorned his quiver!"

"Go and preach fasting and morality in your journal, fat apostle!" said Rose--Pompon, as she
restored the scarlet shirt to its place, with Philemon's other garments.

"I say! are we to talk much longer through the door, for the greater edification of our neighbors?"
cried Ninny Moulin. "I have something of importance to tell you--something that will astonish
you--"

"Give me time to put on my gown, great plague that you are!"

"If it is because of my modesty, do not think of it. I am not over nice. I should like you
very well as you are!"

"Only to think that such a monster is the favorite of all the churchgoers!" said Rose-Pompon,
opening the door as she finished fastening her dress. 

118.

There is an innocence of admiration: He has it, where it has not come
to mind is, whether he could even be admired.

119.

The disgust with the dirt can be so large that it prevents
us from cleaning ourselves - us "Justify".

"True; I only returned home last night. You must have called during my absence?"

"I came, every day, and even twice a day, young lady, for I have very serious matters to communicate."

"Very serious matters? Then we shall have a good laugh at them."

"Not at all--they are really serious," said Ninny Moulin, seating himself. "But, first of all,
what did you do during the three days that you left your conjugal and Philemonic home? I must
know all about it, before I tell you more."

"Will you have some olives?" said Rose-Pompon, as she nibbled one of them herself.

"Is that your answer?--I understand!--Unfortunate Philemon!"

"There is no unfortunate Philemon in the case, slanderer. Clara had a death in her house, and,
for the first few days after the funeral she was afraid to sleep alone."

"I thought Clara sufficiently provided against such fears."

"There you are deceived, you great viper! I was obliged to go and keep the poor girl company."

At this assertion, the religious pamphleteer hummed a tune, with an incredulous and mocking air.

