MORNING STAR

by H. Rider Haggard

DEDICATION

My dear Budge,--

Only a friendship extending over many years emboldened me, an amateur, to propose to dedicate
a Romance of Old Egypt to you, one of the world's masters of the language and lore of the great
people who in these latter days arise from their holy tombs to instruct us in the secrets of
history and faith.

With doubt I submitted to you this story, asking whether you wished to accept pages that could
not, I feared, be free from error, and with surprise in due course I read, among other kind
things, your advice to me to "leave it exactly as it is." So I take you at your word, although
I can scarcely think that in paths so remote and difficult I have not sometimes gone astray.

Whatever may be the shortcomings, therefore, that your kindness has concealed from me, since
this tale was so fortunate as to please and interest you, its first critic, I offer it to you
as an earnest of my respect for your learning and your labours.

Very sincerely yours,

H. Rider Haggard.

Ditchingham.

To Doctor Wallis Budge,

Keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities, British Museum.

AUTHOR'S NOTE

It may be thought that even in a story of Old Egypt to represent a "Ka" or "Double" as remaining
in active occupation of a throne, while the owner of the said "Double" goes upon a long journey
and achieves sundry adventures, is, in fact, to take a liberty with Doubles. Yet I believe
that this is scarcely the case. The Ka or Double which Wiedermann aptly calls the "Personality
within the Person" appears, according to Egyptian theory, to have had an existence of its own.
It did not die when the body died, for it was immortal and awaited the resurrection of that
body, with which, henceforth, it would be reunited and dwell eternally. To quote Wiedermann
again, "The Ka could live without the body, but the body could not live without the Ka . .
. . . it was material in just the same was as the body itself." Also, it would seem that in
certain ways it was superior to and more powerful than the body, since the Egyptian monarchs
are often represented as making offerings to their own Kas as though these were gods. Again,
in the story of "Setna and the Magic Book," translated by Maspero and by Mr. Flinders Petrie
in his "Egyptian Tales," the Ka plays a very distinct part of its own. Thus the husband is
buried at Memphis and the wife in Koptos, yet the Ka of the wife goes to live in her husband's
tomb hundreds of miles away, and converses with the prince who comes to steal the magic book.

Although I know no actual precedent for it, in the case of a particularly powerful Double,
such as was given in this romance to Queen Neter-Tua by her spiritual father, Amen, the greatest
of the Egyptian gods, it seems, therefore, legitimate to suppose that, in order to save her
from the abomination of a forced marriage with her uncle and her father's murderer, the Ka
would be allowed to anticipate matters a little, and to play the part recorded in these pages.

It must not be understood, however, that the fact of marriage with an uncle would have shocked
the Egyptian mind, since these people, and especially their royal Houses, made a habit of wedding
their own brothers and sisters, as in this tale Mermes wed his half sister Asti.

I may add that there is authority for the magic waxen image which the sorcerer Kaku and his
accomplice used to bewitch Pharaoh. In the days of Rameses III., over three thousand years
ago, a plot was made to murder the king in pursuance of which such images were used. "Gods
of wax . . . . . . for enfeebling the limbs of people," which were "great crimes of death,
the great abomination of the land." Also a certain "magic roll" was brought into play which
enabled its user to "employ the magic powers of the gods."

Still, the end of these wizards was not encouraging to others, for they were found guilty and
obliged to take their own lives.

But even if I am held to have stretched the prerogative of the Ka, or of the waxen image which,
by the way, has survived almost to our own time, and in West Africa, as a fetish, is still
pierced with pins or nails, I can urge in excuse that I have tried, so far as a modern may,
to reproduce something of the atmosphere and colour of Old Egypt, as it has appeared to a traveller
in that country and a student of its records. If Neter-Tua never sat upon its throne, at least
another daughter of Amen, a mighty queen, Hatshepu, wore the crown of the Upper and the Lower
Lands, and sent her embassies to search out the mysteries of Punt. Of romance also, in high
places, there must have been abundance, though the short-cut records of the religious texts
of the priests do not trouble themselves with such matters.

At any rate, so believing, in the hope that it may interest readers of to-day, I have ventured
to discover and present one such romance, whereof the motive, we may be sure, is more ancient,
by far, than the old Egyptians, namely, the triumph of true love over great difficulties and
dangers. It is pleasant to dream that the gods are on the side of such lovers, and deign for
their sakes to work the miracles in which for thousands of years mankind has believed, although
the scientist tells us that they do not happen.

How large a part marvel and magic of the most terrible and exalted kind played in the life
of Old Egypt and of the nations with which she fought and traded, we need go no further than
the Book of Exodus to learn. Also all her history is full of it, since among the Egyptians
it was an article of faith that the Divinity, which they worshipped under so many names and
symbols, made use of such mysterious means to influence or direct the affairs of men and bring
about the accomplishment of Its decrees.

H. R. H.

MORNING STAR

by H. Rider Haggard

CHAPTER I

THE PLOT OF ABI

It was evening in Egypt, thousands of years ago, when the Prince Abi, governor of Memphis and
of great territories in the Delta, made fast his ship of state to a quay beneath the outermost
walls of the mighty city of Uast or Thebes, which we moderns know as Luxor and Karnac on the
Nile. Abi, a large man, very dark of skin, for his mother was one of the hated Hyksos barbarians
who once had usurped the throne of Egypt, sat upon the deck of his ship and stared at the setting
sun which for a few moments seemed to rest, a round ball of fire, upon the bare and rugged
mountains, that ring round the Tombs of the Kings.

He was angry, as the slave-women, who stood on either side fanning him, could see well enough
by the scowl on his coarse face and the fire in his large black eyes. Presently they felt it
also, for one of them, staring at the temples and palaces of the wonderful city made glorious
by the light of the setting sun, that city of which she had heard so often, touched his head
with the feathers of her fan. Thereon, as though glad of an excuse to express his ill-humour,
Abi sprang up and boxed her ears so heavily that the poor girl fell to the deck.

"Awkward cat," he cried, "do that again and you shall be flogged until your robe sticks to
your back!"

"Pardon, mighty Lord," she said, beginning to weep, "it was an accident; the wind caught my fan."

"So the rod shall catch your skin, if you are not more careful, Merytra. Stop that snivelling
and go send Kaku the Astrologer here. Go, both, I weary of the sight of your ugly faces."

The girl rose, and with her fellow slave ran swiftly to the ladder that led to the waist of
the ship.

"He called me a cat," Merytra hissed through her white teeth to her companion. "Well, if so,
Sekhet the cat-headed is my godmother, and she is the Lady of Vengeance."

"Yes," answered the other, "and he said that we were both ugly--we, whom every lord who comes
near the Court admires so much! Oh! I wish a holy crocodile would eat him, black pig!"

"Then why don't they buy us? Abi would sell his daughters, much more his fan-bearers--at a price."

"Because they hope to get us for nothing, my dear, and what is more, if I can manage it one
of them shall, for I am tired of this life. Have your fling while you can, I say. Who knows
at which corner Osiris, Lord of Death, is waiting."

"Hush!" whispered Merytra, "there is that knave of an astrologer, and he looks cross, too."

Then, hand in hand, they went to this lean and learned man and humbly bowed themselves before him.

"Master of the Stars," said Merytra, "we have a message for you. No, do not look at my cheek,
please, the marks are not magical, only those of the divine fingers of the glorious hand of
the most exalted Prince Abi, son of the Pharaoh happily ruling in Osiris, etc., etc., etc.,
of the right, royal blood of Egypt--that is on one side, and on the other of a divine lady
whom Khem the Spirit, or Ptah the Creator, thought fit to dip in a vat of black dye."

"Hem!" said Kaku glancing nervously over his shoulder. Then, seeing that there was no one near,
he added, "you had better be careful what you say, my dear. The royal Abi does not like to
hear the colour of his late mother defined so closely. But why did he slap your face?"

She told him.

"Well," he answered, "if I had been in his place I would rather have kissed it, for it is pretty,
decidedly pretty," and this learned man forgot himself so far as to wink at Merytra.

"There, Sister," said the girl, "I always told you that rough shells have sweet nuts inside
of them. Thank you for your compliment, Master of learning. Will you tell us our fortune for
nothing?"

"Yes, yes," he answered; "at least the fee I want will cost you nothing. Now stop this nonsense,"
he added, anxiously, "I gather that he is cross."

"I never saw him crosser, Kaku. I am glad it is you who reads the stars, not I. Listen!"

As he spoke an angry roar reached them from the high deck above.

"Where is that accursed astrologer?" said the roar.

"There, what did I tell you? Oh! never mind the rest of the papers, go at once. Your robe is
full of rolls as it is."

"Yes," answered Kaku as he ran to the ladder, "but the question is, how will he like what is
in the rolls?"

"The gods be with you!" cried one of the girls after him, "you will need them all."

"And if you get back alive, don't forget your promise about the fortunes," said the other.

A minute later this searcher of the heavens, a tall, hook-nosed man, was prostrating himself
before Abi in his pavilion on the upper deck, so low that his Syrian-shaped cap fell from his
bald head.

"Why were you so long in coming?" asked Abi.

"Because your slaves could not find me, royal Son of the Sun. I was at work in my cabin."

"Indeed, I thought I heard them giggling with you down there. What did you call me? Royal Son
of the Sun? That is Pharaoh's name! Have the stars shown you----?" and he looked at him eagerly.

"No, Prince, not exactly that. I did not think it needful to search them on a matter which
seems established, more or less."

"More or less," answered Abi gloomily. "What do you mean by your 'more or less'? Here am I
at the turning-point of my fortunes, not knowing whether I am to be Pharaoh of the Upper and
Lower Lands, or only the petty lord of a city and a few provinces in the Delta, and you satisfy
my hunger for the truth with an empty dish of 'more or less.' Man, what do you mean?"

"If your Majesty will be pleased to tell his servant exactly what you desire to know, perhaps
I may be able to answer the question," replied Kaku humbly.

"Majesty! Well, I desire to know by what warrant you call me 'Majesty,' who am only Prince
of Memphis. Did the stars give it to you? Have you obeyed me and asked them of the future?"

"Certainly, certainly. How could I disobey? I observed them all last night, and have been working
out the results till this moment; indeed, they are not yet finished. Question and I will answer."

"You will answer, yes, but what will you answer? Not the truth, I fancy, because you are a
coward, though if anyone can read the truth, it is you. Man," he added fiercely, "if you dare
to lie to me I will cut your head off and take it to Pharaoh as a traitor's; and your body
shall lie, not in that fine tomb which you have made, but in the belly of a crocodile whence
there is no resurrection. Do you understand? Then let us come to the point. Look, the sun sets
there behind the Tombs of Kings, where the departed Pharaohs of Egypt take their rest till
the Day of Awakening. It is a bad omen for me, I know, who wished to reach this city in the
morning when Ra was in the House of Life, the East, and not in the House of Death, the West;
but that accursed wind sent by Typhon, held me back and I could not. Well, let us begin at
the end which must come after all. Tell me, you reader of the heavens, shall I sleep at last
in that valley?"

"I think so, Prince; at least, so says your planet. Look, yonder, it springs to life above
you," and he pointed to an orb that appeared at the topmost edge of the red glow of the sunset.

"You are keeping something back from me," said Abi, searching Kaku's face with his fierce eyes.
"Shall I sleep in the tomb of Pharaoh, in my own everlasting house that I shall have made ready
to receive me?"

"Son of Ra, I cannot say," answered the astrologer. "Divine One, I will be frank with you.
Though you be wrath, yet will I tell you the truth as you command me. An evil influence is
at work in your House of Life. Another star crosses and re-crosses your path, and though for
a long time you seem to swallow it up, yet at the last it eclipses you--it and one that goes
with it."

"What star?" asked Abi hoarsely, "Pharaoh's?"

"Nay, Prince, the star of Amen."

"Amen! What Amen?"

"Amen the god, Prince, the mighty father of the gods."

"Amen the god," repeated Abi in an awed voice. "How can a man fight against a god?"

"Say rather against two gods, for with the star of Amen goes the star of Hathor, Queen of Love.
Not for many periods of thousands of years have they been together, but now they draw near
to each other, and so will remain for all your life. Look," and Kaku pointed to the Eastern
horizon where a faint rosy glow still lingered reflected from the western sky.

As they watched this glow melted, and there in the pure heavens, lying just where it met the
distant land, seeming to rest upon the land, indeed, appeared a bright and beautiful star,
and so close to it that, to the eye, they almost touched, a twin star. For a few minutes only
were they seen; then they vanished beneath the line of the horizon.

"The morning star of Amen, and with it the star of Hathor," said the astrologer.

"Well, Fool, what of it?" exclaimed Abi. "They are far enough from my star; moreover, it is
they that sink, not I, who ride higher every moment."

"Aye, Prince, but in a year to come they will certainly eclipse that star of yours. Prince,
Amen and Hathor are against you. Look, I will show you their journeyings on this scroll and
you shall see where they eat you up yonder, yes, yonder over the Valley of dead Kings, though
twenty years and more must go by ere then, and take this for your comfort, during those years
you shine alone," and he began to unfold a papyrus roll.

Abi snatched it from him, crumpled it up and threw it in his face.

"You cheat!" he said. "Do you think to frighten me with this nonsense about stars? Here is
my star," and he drew the short sword at his side and shook it over the head of the trembling
Kaku. "This sharp bronze is the star I follow, and be careful lest it should eclipse you, you
father of lies."

"I have told the truth as I see it," answered the poor astrologer with some dignity, "but if
you wish, O Prince, that in the future I should indeed prophesy pleasant things to you, why,
it can be done easily enough. Moreover, it seems to me that this horoscope of yours is not
so evil, seeing that it gives to you over twenty years of life and power, more by far than
most men can expect--at your age. If after that come troubles and the end, what of it?"

"That is so," replied Abi mollified. "It was my ill-temper, everything has gone cross to-day.
Well, a gold cup, my own, shall pay the price of it. Bear me no ill-will, I pray you, learned
scribe, and above all tell me no falsehood as the message of the stars you serve. It is the
truth I seek, the truth. If only she may be seen, and clasped, I care not how ill-favoured
is her face."

Rejoicing at the turn which things had taken, and especially at the promise of the priceless
cup which he had long coveted, Kaku bowed obsequiously. He picked up his crumpled roll and
was about to retire when through the gloom of the falling night, some men mounted upon asses
were seen riding over the mud flats that border the Nile at this spot, towards that bank where
the ship was moored.

"The captain of my guard," said Abi, who saw the starlight gleam upon a bronze helmet, "who
brings me Pharaoh's answer. Nay, go not, bide and hear it, Kaku, and give us your counsel on
it, your true counsel."

So the astrologer stood aside and waited, till presently the captain appeared saluting.

"What says Pharaoh, my brother?" asked the Prince.

"Lord, he says that he will receive you, though as he did not send for you, he thinks that
you can scarcely come upon any necessary errand, as he has heard long ago of your victory over
the desert-dwelling barbarians, and does not want the offering of the salted heads of their
officers which you bring to him."

"Good," said Abi contemptuously. "The divine Pharaoh was ever a woman in such matters, as in
others. Let him be thankful that he has generals who know how to make war and to cut off the
heads of his enemies in defence of the kingdom. We will wait upon him to-morrow."

"Lord," added the captain, "that is not all Pharaoh's message. He says that it has been reported
to him that you are accompanied by a guard of three hundred soldiers. These soldiers he refuses
to allow within the gates. He directs that you shall appear before his Majesty attended by
five persons only."

"Indeed," answered Abi with a scornful laugh. "Does Pharaoh fear, then, lest I should capture
him and his armies and the great city with three hundred soldiers?"

"No, Prince," answered the captain bluntly; "but I think he fears lest you should kill him
and declare yourself Pharaoh as next in blood."

"Ah!" said Abi, "as next of blood. Then I suppose that there are still no children at the Court?"

"None, O Prince. I saw Ahura, the royal wife, the Lady of the Two Lands, that fairest of women,
and other lesser wives and beautiful slave girls without number, but never a one of them had
an infant on her breast or at her knee. Pharaoh remains childless."

"Ah!" said Abi again. Then he walked forward out of the pavilion whereof the curtains were
drawn back, and stood a while upon the prow of the vessel.

By now night had fallen, and the great moon, rising from the earth as it were, poured her flood
of silver light over the desert, the mountains, the limitless city of Thebes, and the wide
rippling bosom of the Nile. The pylons and obelisks, glittering with copper and with gold,
towered to the tender sky. In the window places of palaces and of ten thousand homes lamps
shone like stars. From gardens, streets and the courts of temples floated the faint sound of
singing and of music, while on the great embattled walls the watchmen called the hour from
post to post.

It was a wondrous scene, and the heart of Abi swelled as he gazed upon it. What wealth lay
yonder, and what power. There was the glorious house of his brother, Pharaoh, the god in human
form who for all his godship had never a child to follow after him when he ascended to Osiris,
as he who was sickly probably must do before so very long.

Yes, but before then a miracle might happen; in this way or in that a successor to the throne
might be found and acknowledged, for were not Pharaoh and his House beloved by all the priests
of Amen, and by the people, and was not he, Abi, feared and disliked because he was fierce,
and the hated savage blood flowed in his veins? Oh! what evil god had put it in his father's
heart to give him a princess of the Hyksos for a mother, the Hyksos, whom the Egyptians loathed,
when he had the fairest women of the world from whom to choose? Well, it was done and could
not be undone, though because of it he might lose his heritage of the greatest throne in all
the earth. Also was it not to this fierce Hyksos blood that he owed his strength and vigour?

Why should he wait? Why should he not set his fortune on a cast? He had three hundred soldiers
with him, picked men and brave, children of the sea and the desert, sworn to his House and
interests. It was a time of festival, those gates were ill-guarded. Why should he not force
them at the dead of night, make his way to the palace, cause Pharaoh to be gathered to his
fathers, and at the dawn discover himself seated upon Pharaoh's throne? At the thought of it
Abi's heart leapt in his breast, his wide nostrils spread themselves, and he erected his strong
head as though already he felt upon it the weight of the double crown. Then he turned and walked
back to the pavilion.

"I am minded to strike a blow," he said. "Say now, my officer, would you and the soldiers follow
me into the heart of yonder city to-night to win a throne--or a grave? If it were the first,
you should be the general of all my army, and you, astrologer, should become vizier, yes, after
Pharaoh you two should be the greatest men in all the land."

They looked at him and gasped.

"A venturesome deed, Prince," said the captain at length; "yet with such a prize to win I think
that I would dare it, though for the soldiers I cannot speak. First they must be told what
is on foot, and out of so many, how know we that the heart of one or more would not fail? A
word from a traitor and before this time to-morrow the embalmers, or the jackals, would be busy."

Abi heard and looked from him to his companion.

"Prince," said Kaku, "put such thoughts from you. Bury them deep. Let them rise no more. In
the heavens I read something of this business, but then I did not understand, but now I see
the black depths of hell opening beneath our feet. Yes, hell would be our home if we dared
to lift hand against the divine person of the Pharaoh. I say that the gods themselves would
fight against us. Let it be, Prince, let it be, and you shall have many years of rule, who,
if you strike now, will win nothing but a crown of shame, a nameless grave, and the everlasting
torment of the damned."

As he spoke Abi considered the man's face and saw that all craft had left it. This was no charlatan
that spoke to him, but one in earnest who believed what he said.

"So be it," he answered. "I accept your judgment, and will wait upon my fortune. Moreover,
you are both right, the thing is too dangerous, and evil often falls on the heads of those
who shoot arrows at a god, especially if they have not enough arrows. Let Pharaoh live on while
I make ready. Perhaps to-morrow I may work upon him to name me his heir."

The astrologer sighed in relief, nor did the captain seem disappointed.

"My head feels firmer on my shoulders than it did just now," he said: "and doubtless there
are times when wisdom is better than valour. Sleep well, Prince; Pharaoh will receive you to-morrow
two hours after sunrise. Have we your leave to retire?"

"If I were wise," said Abi, fingering the hilt of his sword as he spoke, "you would both of
you retire for ever who know all the secret of my heart, and with a whisper could bring doom
upon me."

Now the pair looked at each other with frightened eyes, and, like his master, the captain began
to play with his sword.

"Life is sweet to all men, Prince," he said significantly, "and we have never given you cause
to doubt us."

"No," answered Abi, "had it been otherwise I should have struck first and spoken afterwards.
Only you must swear by the oath which may not be broken that in life or death no word of this
shall pass your lips."

So they swore, both of them, by the holy name of Osiris, the judge and the redeemer.

"Captain," said Abi, "you have served me well. Your pay is doubled, and I confirm the promise
that I made to you--should I ever rule yonder you shall be my general."

While the soldier bowed his thanks, the prince said to Kaku,

"Master of the stars, my gold cup is yours. Is there aught else of mine that you desire?"

"That slave," answered the learned man, "Merytra, whose ears you boxed just now----"

"How do you know that I boxed her ears?" asked Abi quickly. "Did the stars tell you that also?
Well, I am tired of the sly hussy--take her. Soon I think she will box yours."

But when Kaku sought Merytra to tell her the glad tidings that she was his, he could not find her.

Merytra had disappeared.

CHAPTER II

THE PROMISE OF THE GOD

It was morning at Thebes, and the great city glowed in the rays of the new-risen sun. In a
royal barge sat Abi the prince, splendidly apparelled, and with him Kaku, his astrologer, his
captain of the guard and three other of his officers, while in a second barge followed slaves
who escorted two chiefs and some fair women captured in war, also the chests of salted heads
and hands, offerings to Pharaoh.

The white-robed rowers bent to their oars, and the swift boat shot forward up the Nile through
a double line of ships of war, all of them crowded with soldiers. Abi looked at these ships
which Pharaoh had gathered there to meet him, and thought to himself that Kaku had given wise
counsel when he prayed him to attempt no rash deed, for against such surprises clearly Pharaoh
was well prepared. He thought it again when on reaching the quay of cut stones he saw foot
and horse-men marshalled there in companies and squadrons, and on the walls above hundreds
of other men, all armed, for now he saw what would have happened to him, if with his little
desperate band he had tried to pierce that iron ring of watching soldiers.

At the steps generals met him in their mail and priests in their full robes, bowing and doing
him honour. Thus royally escorted, Abi passed through the open gates and the pylons of the
splendid temple dedicated to the Trinity of Thebes, "the House of Amen in the Southern Apt,"
where gay banners fluttered from the pointed masts, up the long street bordered with tall houses
set in their gardens, till he came to the palace wall. Here more guards rolled back the brazen
gates which in his folly of a few hours gone he had thought that he could force, and through
the avenues of blooming trees he was led to the great pillared hall of audience.

After the brightness without, that hall seemed almost dark, only a ray of sunshine flowing
from an unshuttered space in the clerestory above, fell full on the end of it, and revealed
the crowned Pharaoh and his queen seated in state upon their thrones of ivory and gold. Gathered
round and about him also were scribes and councillors and captains, and beyond these other
queens in their carved chairs and attended, each of them, by beautiful women of the household
in their gala dress. Moreover, behind the thrones, and at intervals between the columns, stood
the famous Nubian guard of two hundred men, the servants of the body of Pharaoh as they were
called, each of them chosen for faithfulness and courage.

The centre of all this magnificence was Pharaoh, on him the sunlight beat, to him every eye
was turned, and where his glance fell there heads bowed and knees were bent. A small thin man
of about forty years of age with a puckered, kindly and anxious face, and a brow that seemed
to sink beneath the weight of the double crown that, save for its royal snake-crest of hollow
gold, was after all but of linen, a man with thin, nervous hands which played amongst the embroideries
of his golden robe--such was Pharaoh, the mightiest monarch in the world, the ruler whom millions
that had never seen him worshipped as a god.

Abi, the burly framed, thick-lipped, dark-skinned, round-eyed Abi, born of the same father,
stared at him with wonderment, for years had passed since last they met, and in the palace
when they were children a gulf had been set between the offspring of a royal mother and the
child of a Hyksos concubine taken into the Household for reasons of state. In his vigour, and
the might of his manhood, he stared at this weakling, the son of a brother and a sister, and
the grandson of a brother and a sister. Yet there was something in that gentle eye, an essence
of inherited royalty, before which his rude nature bowed. The body might be contemptible, but
within it dwelt the proud spirit of the descendant of a hundred kings.

Abi advanced to the steps of the throne and knelt there, till after a little pause Pharaoh
stretched out the sceptre in his hand for him to kiss. Then he spoke in his light, quick voice.

"Welcome, Prince and my brother," he said. "We quarrelled long ago, did we not, and many years
have passed since we met, but Time heals all wounds and--welcome, son of my father. I need
not ask if you are well," and he glanced enviously at the great-framed man who knelt before him.

"Hail to your divine Majesty!" answered Abi in his deep voice. "Health and strength be with
you, Holder of the Scourge of Osiris, Wearer of the Feathers of Amen, Mortal crowned with the
glory of Ra."

"I thank you, Prince," answered Pharaoh gently, "and that health and strength I need, who fear
that I shall only find them when I have yielded up the Scourge of Osiris whereof you speak
to him who lent it me. But enough of myself. Let us to business, afterwards we will talk of
such matters together. Why have you left your government at Memphis without leave asked, to
visit me here in my City of the Gates?"

"Be not wrath with me," answered Abi humbly. "A while ago, in obedience to your divine command,
I attacked the barbarians who threatened your dominions in the desert. Like Menthu, god of
war, I fell upon them. I took them by surprise, I smote them, thousands of them bit the dust
before me. Two of their kings I captured with their women--they wait without, to be slain by
your Majesty. I bring with me the heads of a hundred of their captains and the hands of five
hundred of their soldiers, in earnest of the truth of my word. Let them be spread out before
you. I report to your divine Majesty that those barbarians are no more, that for a generation,
at least, I have made the land safe to your uttermost dominions in the north. Suffer that the
heads and the hands be brought in and counted out before your Majesty, that the smell of them
may rise like incense to your divine nostrils."

"No, no," said Pharaoh, "my officers shall count them without, for I love not such sights of
death, and I take your word for the number. What payment do you ask for this service, my brother,
for with great gifts would I reward you, who have done so well for me and Egypt?"

Before he answered Abi looked at the beautiful queen, Ahura, who sat at Pharaoh's side, and
at the other royal consorts and women.

"Your Majesty," he said, "I see here many wives and ladies, but royal children I do not see.
Grant--for doubtless they are in their own chambers--grant, O Pharaoh, that they may be led
hither that my eyes may feed upon their loveliness, and that I may tell of them, each of them,
to their cousins who await me at Memphis."

At these words a flush as of shame spread itself over the lovely face of Ahura, the royal wife,
the Lady of the Two Lands; while the women turned their heads away whispering to each other
bitterly, for the insult hurt them. Only Pharaoh set his pale face and answered with dignity.

"Prince Abi, to affront those whom the gods have smitten, be they kings or peasants, is an
unworthy deed which the gods will not forget. You know well that I have no children. Why then
do you ask me to show you their loveliness?"

"I had heard rumours, O Pharaoh," answered the Prince, "no more. Indeed, I did not believe
them, for where there are so many wives I was certain that there would be some mothers. Therefore
I asked to be sure before I proffered a petition which now I will make to you not for my own
sake but for Egypt's and yours, O Pharaoh. Have I your leave to speak here in public?"

"Speak on," said Pharaoh sternly. "Let aught that is for the welfare of Egypt be heard by Egypt."

"Your Majesty has told me," replied Abi bowing, "that the gods, being wrath, have denied you
children. Not so much as one girl of your blood have they given to you to fill your throne
after you when in due season it pleases you to depart to Osiris. Were it otherwise, were there
even but a single woman-child of your divine race, I would say nothing, I would be silent as
the grave. But so it is, and though your queens be fair and many, so it would seem that it
must remain, since the ears of the gods having been deaf to your pleadings for so long, although
you have built them glorious temples and made them offerings without count, will scarcely now
be opened. Even Amen your father, Amen, whose name you bear, will perform no miracle for you,
O Pharaoh, who are so great that he has decreed that you shall shine alone like the full moon
at night, not sharing your glory with a single star."

Now Ahura the Queen, who all this while had been listening intently, spoke for the first time
in a quick angry voice, saying,

"How know you that, Prince of Memphis? Sometimes the gods relent and that which they have withheld
for a space, they give. My lord lives, and I live, and a child of his may yet fill the throne
of Egypt."

"It may be so, O Queen," said Abi bowing, "and for my part I pray that it will be so, for who
am I that I should know the purpose of the kings of heaven? If but one girl be born of you
and Pharaoh, then I take back my words and give to you that title which for many years has
been written falsely upon your thrones and monuments, the title of Royal Mother."

Now Ahura would have answered again, for this sneering taunt stung her to the quick. But Pharaoh
laid his hand upon her knee and said,

"Continue, Prince and brother. We have heard from you that which we already know too well--that
I am childless. Tell us what we do not know, the desire of your heart which lies hid beneath
all these words."

"Pharaoh, it is this--I am of your holy blood, sprung of the same divine father----"

"But of a mother who was not divine," broke in Ahura; "of a mother taken from a race that has
brought many a curse upon Khem, as any mirror will show you, Prince of Memphis."

"Pharaoh," went on Abi without heeding her, "you grow weak; heaven desires you, the earth melts
beneath you. In the north and in the south many dangers threaten Egypt. Should you die suddenly
without an heir, barbarians will flow in from the north and from the south, and the great ones
of the land will struggle for your place. Pharaoh, I am a warrior; I am built strong; my children
are many; my house is built upon a rock; the army trusts me; the millions of the people love
me. Take me then to rule with you and in the hearing of all the earth name me and my sons as
your successors, so that our royal race may continue for generation after generation. So shall
you end your days in peace and hope. I have spoken."

Now, as the meaning of this bold request sank into their hearts, all the court there gathered
gasped and whispered, while the Queen Ahura in her anger crushed the lotus flower which she
held in her hand and cast it to the floor. Only Pharaoh sat still and silent, his head bent
and his eyes shut as though in prayer. For a minute or more he sat thus, and when he lifted
his pale, pure face, there was a smile upon it.

"Abi, my brother," he said in his gentle voice, "listen to me. There are those who filled this
throne before me, who on hearing such words would have pointed to you with their sceptres,
whereon, Abi, those lips of yours would have grown still for ever, and you and your name and
the names of all your House would have been blotted out by death. But, Abi, you were ever bold,
and I forgive you for laying open the thoughts of your heart to me. Still, Abi, you have not
told us all of them. You have not told us, for instance," he went on slowly, and in the midst
of an intense silence, "that but last night you debated whether it would not be possible with
that guard of yours to break into my palace and put me to the sword and name yourself Pharaoh--by
right of blood, Abi; yes, by right of blood--my blood shed by you, my brother."

As these words left the royal lips a tumult arose in the hall, the women and the great officers
sprang up, the captains stepped forward drawing their swords to avenge so horrible a sacrilege.
But Pharaoh waved his sceptre, and they were still, only Abi cried in a great voice.

"Who has dared to whisper a lie so monstrous?" And he glared first at Kaku and then at the
captain of his guard who stood behind him, and choked in wrath, or fear, or both.

"Suspect not your officers, Prince," went on the Pharaoh, still smiling, "for on my royal word
they are innocent. Yet, Abi, a pavilion set upon the deck of a ship is no good place to plot
the death of kings. Pharaoh has many spies, also, at times, the gods, to whom as you say he
is so near, whisper tidings to him in his sleep. Suspect not your officers, Abi, although I
think that to yonder Master of the Stars who stands behind you, I should be grateful, since,
had you attempted to execute this madness, but for him I might have been forced to kill you,
Abi, as one kills a snake that creeps beneath his mat. Astrologer, you shall have a gift from
me, for you are a wise man. It may take the place, perhaps, of one that you have lost; was
it not a certain woman slave whom your master gave to you last night--after he had punished
her for no fault?"

Kaku prostrated himself before the glory of Pharaoh, understanding at last that it was the
lost girl Merytra who had overheard and betrayed them. But heeding him no more, his Majesty
went on.

"Abi, Prince and brother, I forgive you a deed that you purposed but did not attempt. May the
gods and the spirits of our fathers forgive you also, if they will. Now as to your demand.
You are my only living brother, and therefore I will weigh it. Perchance, if I should die without
issue, although you are not all royal, although there flows in your veins a blood that Egypt
hates; although you could plot the murder of your lord and king, it may be well that when I
am gone you should fill my place, for you are brave and of the ancient race on one side, if
base-born on the other. But I am not yet dead, and children may still come to me. Abi, will
you be a prisoner until Osiris calls me, or will you swear an oath?"

"I will swear an oath," answered the Prince hoarsely, for he knew his shame and danger.

"Then kneel here, and by the dreadful Name swear that you will lift no hand and plot no plot
against me. Swear that if a child, male or female, should be given to me, you will serve such
a child truly as your lord and lawful Pharaoh. In the presence of all this company, swear,
knowing that if you break the oath in letter or in spirit, then all the gods of Egypt shall
pour their curse upon your head in life, and in death shall give you over to the everlasting
torments of the damned."

So, having little choice, Abi swore by the Name and kissed the sceptre in token of his oath.

It was night. Dark and solemn was the innermost shrine of the vast temple, the "House of Amen
in the Northern Apt," which we call Karnak, the very holy of holies where, fashioned of stone,
and with the feathered crown upon his head, stood the statue of Amen-ra, father of the gods.
Here, where none but the high-priest and the royalties of Egypt might enter, Pharaoh and his
wife Ahura, wrapped in brown cloaks like common folk, knelt at the feet of the god and prayed.
With tears and supplications did they pray that a child might be given to them.

There in the sacred place, lit only by a single lamp which burned from age to age, they told
the story of their grief, whilst high above them the cold, calm countenance of the god seemed
to stare through the gloom, as for a thousand years, in joy or sorrow, it had stared at those
that went before them. They told of the mocking words of Abi who had demanded to see their
children, the children that were not; they told of their terror of the people who demanded
that an heir should be declared; they told of the doom that threatened their ancient house,
which from Pharaoh to Pharaoh, all of one blood, for generations had worshipped in this place.
They promised gifts and offerings, stately temples and wide lands, if only their desire might
be fulfilled.

"Let me no more be made a mock among men," cried the beautiful queen, beating her forehead
upon the stone feet of the god. "Let me bear a child to fill the seat of my lord the King,
and then if thou wilt, take my life in payment."

But the god made no answer, and wearied out at length they rose and departed. At the door of
the sanctuary they found the high-priest awaiting them, a wizened, aged man.

"The god gave no sign, O High-priest," said Pharaoh sadly; "no voice spoke to us."

The old priest looked at the weeping queen, and a light of pity crept into his eyes.

"To me, watching without," he said, "a voice seemed to speak, though what it said I may not
reveal. Go to your palace now, O Pharaoh, and O Queen Ahura, and take your rest side by side.
I think that in your sleep a sign will come to you, for Amen is pitiful, and loves his children
who love him. According to that sign so speak to the Prince Abi, speak without fear or doubt,
since for good or ill it shall be fulfilled."

Then like shadows, hand in hand, this royal pair glided down the vast, pillared halls till
at the pylon gates, which were opened for them, they found their litters, and were borne along
the great avenue of ram-headed sphinxes back to a secret door in the palace wall.

It was past midnight. Deep darkness and heavy silence lay upon Thebes, broken only by dogs
howling at the stars and the occasional challenge of soldiers on the walls. Side by side in
their golden bed the wearied Pharaoh and his queen slept heavily. Presently Ahura woke. She
started up in the bed; she stared at the darkness about her with frightened eyes; she stretched
out her hand and clasping Pharaoh by the arm, whispered in a thrilling voice,

"Awake, awake! I have that which I must tell you."

Pharaoh roused himself, for there was something in Ahura's voice which swept away the veils
of sleep.

"What has chanced, Ahura?" he asked.

"O Pharaoh, I have dreamed a dream, if indeed it were but a dream. It seemed to me that the
darkness opened, and that standing in the darkness I saw a Glory which had neither shape nor
form. Yet a voice spoke from the Glory, a low, sweet voice: 'Queen Ahura, my daughter,' it
said, 'I am that Spirit to whom thou and thy husband did pray this night in the sanctuary of
my temple. It seemed to both of you that your prayers remained unheard, yet it was not so,
as my priest knew well. Queen Ahura, thou and Pharaoh thy husband have put your trust in me
these many years, and not in vain. A daughter shall be given to thee and Pharaoh, and my Spirit
shall be in that child. She shall be beautiful and glorious as no woman was before her, for
I clothe her with health and power and wisdom. She shall rule over the Northern and the Southern
Lands; yea, for many years the double crown shall rest upon her brow, and no king that went
before her, and no king that follows after her, shall be more great in Egypt. Troubles and
dangers shall threaten her, but the Spirit that I give to her shall protect her in them all,
and she shall tread her enemy beneath her feet. A royal lover shall come to her also, and she
shall rejoice in his love and from it shall spring many kings and princes. Neter-Tua, Morning
Star, shall be her name, and high-priestess of Amen--no less--shall be her office, for she
is my child whom I have taken from heaven and sent down to earth; the child that I have given
to Pharaoh and to thee, and I love her and appoint the good goddesses to be her companions,
and command Osiris to receive her at the last.

"'Behold, in token of these things I lay my symbol on thy breast, and on her breast also shall
that symbol be. When I lift it from thee and thou dost open thy eyes, then awaken Pharaoh at
thy side and let these my words be written in a roll, so that none of them are forgotten.'

"Then, O Pharaoh," went on Ahura, "from the Glory there came forth a hand, and in the hand
was the Symbol of Life shining as though with fire, and the hand laid it upon my breast and
it burned me as though with fire, and I awoke and lo! darkness was all about me, nothing but
darkness, and at my side I heard you sleeping."

Now when Pharaoh had listened to this dream, he kissed the queen and blessed her because of
its good omen, and clapped his hands to summon the women of honour who slept without. They
ran in bearing lights, and by the lights he saw that beneath the throat of the Queen upon her
fair skin, appeared a red mark, and the shape of it was the shape of the Sign of Life; yes,
there was the loop, and beneath the loop the cross.

Then Pharaoh commanded that the chief of his scribes should come to him with papyrus and writing
tools, and that the high-priest of Amen should be brought swiftly from the temple. So the scribe
came to the bed-chamber of the King, and in the presence of the high-priest all the words of
Amen were written down, not one of them was omitted, and Pharaoh and the Queen signed the roll,
and the high-priest witnessed it and, copies having been made, bore it away to hide it in the
secret treasury of Amen. But the mark of the Cross of Life remained upon the breast of the
Queen Ahura till the day that she died.

Now in the morning Pharaoh summoned his Court and commanded that the Prince Abi should be brought
before him. So the Prince came and Pharaoh addressed him kindly.

"Son of my father," he said, "I have considered your request that I should take you to rule
with me on the throne of Egypt, and name you and your sons to be Pharaohs after me, and it
is refused. Know that it has been revealed to me and to the royal wife, Ahura, by the greatest
of the gods, that a daughter shall be born to us in due season, who shall be called Morning
Star of Amen, and that she and her seed shall be Pharaohs after me. Therefore rejoice with
us and return to your government, Prince Abi, and be happy in our love, and in the goods and
greatness that the gods have given you."

Now Abi shook with anger, for he thought that all this tale was a trick and a snare. But knowing
that his peril was great there in the hand of Pharaoh, he answered only that when this Morning
Star arose, his star should do it reverence, though as the words passed his lips he remembered
the prophecy of his astrologer Kaku, that the Morning Star of Amen should blot out that star
of his.

"You think that I speak falsely, Prince Abi, yes, that I stain my lips with lies," said Pharaoh
with indignation. "Well, I forgive you this also. Go hence and await the issue and know by
this sign that truth is in my heart. When the Princess Neter-Tua is born, upon her breast shall
be seen the symbol of the Sign of Life. Depart now, lest I grow angry. The gifts I have promised
shall follow you to Memphis."

So Abi returned to the white-walled city of Memphis and sat there sullenly, putting it about
that a plot was on foot to deprive him of his heritage. But Kaku shook his head, saying in
secret that the Star, Neter-Tua, would arise, for so it was decreed by Amen, father of the gods.

CHAPTER III

RAMES, THE PRINCESS, AND THE CROCODILE

At the appointed time to Ahura, the royal wife, was born a child, a girl with a fresh and lovely
face and waving hair and eyes that from the first were blue like the summer sky at even. Also
on her breast was a mole of the length of a finger nail, which mole was shaped like the holy
Sign of Life.

Now Pharaoh and his house and the priests in every temple, and indeed all Egypt went mad with
joy, though there were many who in secret mourned over the sex of the infant, whispering that
a man and not a woman should wear the Double Crown. But in public they said nothing, since
the story of this child had gone abroad and folk declared that it was sent by the gods, and
divine, and that the goddesses, Isis, Nepthys, and Hathor, with Khemu, the Maker of Mankind,
were seen in the birth chamber, glowing like gold.

Also Pharaoh issued a decree that wherever the name of the Queen Ahura was graven in all the
land, to it should be added the title "By the will of Amen, Mother of his Morning Star," and
that a new hall should be built in the temple of Amen in the Northern Apt, and all about it
carved the story of the coming of Prince Abi and of the vision of the Queen.

But Ahura never lived to see this glorious place, since from the hour of her daughter's birth
she began to sink. On the fourteenth day, the day of purification, she bade the nurse bring
the beautiful babe, and gazed at it long and blessed it, and spoke with the Ka or Double of
the child, which she said she saw lying on her arm beside it, bidding that Ka protect it well
through the dangers of life and death until the hour of resurrection. Then she said that she
heard Amen calling to her to pay the price which she had promised for the gift of the divine
child, the price of her own life, and smiled upon Pharaoh her husband, and died happily with
a radiant face.

Now joy was turned to mourning, and during all the days of embalming Egypt wept for Ahura until,
at length, the time came when her body was rowed across the Nile to the splendid tomb which
she had made ready in the Valley of the Queens, causing masons and artists to labour at it
without cease. For Ahura knew from the day of her vision that she was doomed to die, and remembered
that the tombs of the dead remain as the live hands leave them, since few waste gold and toil
upon the eternal house of one who is dead.

So Ahura was buried with great pomp and all her jewels, and Pharaoh, who mourned her truly,
made splendid offerings in the chapel of her tomb, and having laid in the mouth of it the funeral
boat in which she was borne across the Nile, he built it up for ever, and poured sand over
the rock, so that none should find its place until the Day of Awakening.

Meanwhile, the infant grew and flourished, and when it was six months old, was taken to the
college of the priestesses of Amen, there to be reared and taught.

Now on the day of the birth of the Princess Neter-Tua, there happened another birth with which
our story has to do. The captain of the guard of the temple of Amen was one Mermes, who had
married his own half-sister, Asti, the enchantress. As was well known, this Mermes was by right
and true descent the last of that house of Pharaohs which had filled the throne of Egypt until
their line was cast down generations before by the dynasty that now ruled the land, whereof
the reigning Pharaoh and his daughter Neter-Tua alone remained. A long while past, in the early
days of his reign, his council has whispered in Pharaoh's ear that he should kill Mermes and
his sister, lest a day should come when they rebelled against him, proclaiming that they did
so by right of blood. But Pharaoh, who was gentle and hated murder, instead of slaying Mermes
sent for him and told him all.

Then Mermes, a noble-looking man as became the stock from which he sprang, prostrated himself
and said,

"O Pharaoh, why should you kill me? It has pleased the gods to debase my House and to set up
yours. Have I ever lifted up my heel against you because my forefathers were kings, or plotted
with the discontent to overthrow you! See, I am satisfied with my station, which is that of
a noble and a soldier in your army. Therefore let me and my half-sister, the wise lady Asti
whom I purpose to marry, dwell on in peace as your true and humble servants. Dip not your hands
in our innocent blood, O Pharaoh, lest the gods send a curse upon you and your House and our
ghosts come back from the grave to haunt you."

When Pharaoh heard these words, his heart was moved in him, and he stretched out his sceptre
for Mermes to kiss, thereby granting to him life and protection.

"Mermes," he said, "you are an honourable man, and my equal in blood if not in place. For their
own purposes the gods raise up one and cast down another that at last their ends may be fulfilled.
I believe that you will work no harm against me and mine, and, therefore, I will work no harm
against you and your sister Asti, Mistress of Magic. Rather shall you be my friend and counsellor."

Then Pharaoh offered high rank and office to him, but Mermes would not take them, answering
that if he did, envy would be stirred up against him, and in this way or that bring him to
his death, since tall trees are the first to fall. So in the end Pharaoh made Mermes Captain
of the Guard of Amen, and gave him land and houses enough to enable him to live as a noble
of good estate, but no more. Also he became a friend of Pharaoh and one of his inner Council,
to whose voice he always listened, for Mermes was a true-hearted man.

Afterwards Mermes married Asti, but like Pharaoh for a long while he remained childless, since
he took no other wives. On the day of the birth of the Princess Tua, the Morning Star of Amen,
however, Asti bore a son, a royal-looking child of great strength and beauty and very fair
in colour, as tradition said that the kings of his race had been before him, but with black
and shining eyes.

"See," said the midwife, "here is a head shaped to wear a crown."

Whereon Asti, his mother, forgetting her caution in her joy, or perhaps inspired by the gods,
for from her childhood she was a prophetess, answered,

"Yes, and I think that this head and a crown will come close together," and she kissed him
and named him Rames after her royal forefather, the founder of their line.

As it chanced a spy overheard this saying and reported it to the Council, and the Council urged
Pharaoh to cause the boy to be put away, as they had urged in the case of his father, Mermes,
because of the words of omen that Asti had spoken, and because she had given her son a royal
name, naming him after the majesty of Ra, as though he were indeed the child of a king. But
Pharaoh would not, asking with his soft smile whether they wished him to baptise his daughter
in the blood of another infant who drew his first breath upon the same day, and adding:

"Ra sheds his glory upon all, and this high-born boy may live to be a friend in need to her
whom Amen has given to Egypt. Let things befall as the gods decree. Who am I that I should
make myself a god and destroy a life that they have fashioned?"

So the boy Rames lived and throve, and Mermes and Asti, when they came to hear of these things,
thanked Pharaoh and blessed him.

Now the house of Mermes, as Captain of the Guard, was within the wall of the great temple of
Amen, near to the palace of the priestesses of Amen where the Princess Neter-Tua was nurtured.
Thus it came about that when the Queen Ahura died, the lady Asti was named as nurse to the
Princess, since Pharaoh said that she should drink no milk save that of one in whose veins
ran royal blood. So Asti was Tua's foster mother, and night by night she slept in her arms
together with her own son, Rames. Afterwards, too, when they were weaned the babes were taught
to walk and speak together, and later, as children, they became playmates.

Thus from the first these two loved each other, as brother and sister love when they are twins.
But although the boy was bold and brave, this little princess always had the mastery of him,
not because she was a princess and heir to the throne of Egypt--for all the high titles they
gave her fell idly on her ears, nor did she think anything of the bowings of courtiers and
of priests--but from some strength within herself. She it was that set the games they played,
and when she talked he was obliged to listen, for although she was so sound and healthy, this
Tua differed from other children.

Thus she had what she called her "silent hours" when she would suffer no one to come near her,
not her ladies or her foster-mother, Asti herself, nor even Rames. Then, followed by the women
at a distance, she would wander among the great columns of the temple and study the sculptures
on the walls; and, since all places were open to her, Pharaoh's child, enter the sanctuaries,
and stare at the gods that sat in them fashioned in granite and in alabaster. This she would
do even in the solemn moonlight when mortals were afraid to approach these sacred shrines,
and come thence unconcerned and smiling.

"What do you see there, O Morning Star?" asked little Rames of her once. "They are dull things,
those stone gods that have never moved since the beginning of the world; also they frighten
me, especially when Ra is set."

"They are not dull, and they do not frighten me," answered Tua; "they talk to me, and although
I cannot understand all they say, I am happy with them."

"Talk!" he said contemptuously, "how can stones talk?"

"I do not know. I think it is their spirits that talk, telling me stories which happened before
I was born and that shall happen after I am dead, yes, and after they seem to be dead. Now
be silent--I say that they talk to me--it is enough."

"For me it would be more than enough," said the boy, "but then I am not called Child of Amen,
who only worship Menthu, God of War."

When Rames was seven years of age, every morning he was taken to school in the temple, where
the priests taught him to write with pens of reed upon tablets of wood, and told him more about
the gods of Egypt than he ever wanted to hear again. During these hours, except when she was
being instructed by the great ladies of the Court, or by high-priestesses, Tua was left solitary,
since by the command of Pharaoh no other children were allowed to play with her, perhaps because
there were none in the temple of her age whose birth was noble.

Once when he came back from his school in the evening Rames asked her if she had not been lonely
without him. She answered, No, as she had another companion.

"Who is it?" he asked jealously. "Show me and I will fight him."

"No one that you can see, Rames," she replied. "Only my own Ka."

"Your Ka! I have heard of Kas, but I never saw one. What is it like?"

"Just like me, except that it throws no shadow, and only comes when I am quite by myself, and
then, although I hear it often, I see it rarely, for it is mixed up with the light."

"I don't believe in Kas," exclaimed Rames scornfully, "you make them up out of your head."

A little while after this talk something happened that caused Rames to change his mind about
Kas, or at any rate the Ka of Tua. In a hidden court of the temple was a deep pool of water
with cemented sides, where, it was said, lived a sacred crocodile, an enormous beast that had
dwelt there for hundreds of years. Rames and Tua having heard of this crocodile, often talked
of it and longed to see it, but could not for there was a high wall round the tank, and in
it a door of copper that was kept locked, except when once in every eight days the priests
took in food to the crocodile--living goats and sheep, and sometimes a calf, none of which
ever came back again.

Now one day Rames watching them return, saw the priest, who was called Guardian of the Door,
put his hand behind him to thrust the key with which he had just locked the door, into his
wallet, and missing the mouth of the wallet, let it fall upon the sand, then go upon his way
knowing nothing of what he had done.

When he had gone in a great hurry, for he was a fat old priest and the dinner hour was at hand,
Rames pounced upon the key and hid it in his robe. Then he sought out the princess and said,

"Morning Star, this evening, when I come back from school and am allowed to play with you,
we can look at the wonderful beast in the tank, for look, I have the key which that fat priest
will not search for till seven days are gone by, before which I can take it to him, saying
that I found it in the sand, or perhaps put it back into his wallet."

When she heard this Tua's eyes shone, since above all things she desired to see this holy monster.
But in the evening when the boy came running to her eagerly--for he had thought of nothing
but the crocodile all day, and had bought a pigeon from a school-fellow with which to feed
the brute--he found Tua in a different mood.

"I don't think that we will go to see the holy crocodile, Rames," she said, looking at him
thoughtfully.

"Why not?" he asked amazed. "There is no one about, and I have put fat upon the key so that
it will make no noise."

"Because my Ka has been with me, Rames, and told me that it is a bad act and if we do trouble
will come to us."

"Oh! may the fiend Set take your Ka," replied the lad in a rage. "Show it to me and I will
talk with it."

"I cannot, Rames, for it is me. Moreover, if Set took it, he would take me also, and you are
wicked to wish such a thing."

Now the boy began to cry with vexation, sobbing out that she was not to be trusted, and that
he had paid away his bronze knife, which Pharaoh had given him when last he visited the temple,
for a pigeon to tempt the beast to the top of the water, so that they might see it, although
the knife was worth many pigeons, and Pharaoh would be angry if he heard that he had parted
with it.

"Why should we take the life of a poor pigeon to please ourselves?" asked Tua, softening a
little at the sight of his grief.

"It's taken already," he answered. "It fluttered so that I had to sit on it to hide it from
the priest, and when he had gone it was dead. Look," and he opened the linen bag he held, and
showed her the dove cold and stiff.

"As you did not mean to kill it, that makes a difference," said Tua judicially. "Well, perhaps
my Ka did not mean that we should not have one peep, and it is a pity to waste the poor pigeon,
which then will have died for nothing."

Rames agreed that it would be the greatest of pities, so the two children slipped away through
the trees of the garden into the shadow of the wall, along which they crept till they came
to the bronze door. Then guiltily enough Rames put the great key into the lock, and with the
help of a piece of wood which he had also made ready, that he set in the ring of the key to
act as a lever, the two of them turning together shot back the heavy bolts.

Taking out the key lest it should betray them, they opened the door a little and squeezed themselves
through into the forbidden place. No sooner had they done so than almost they wished themselves
back again, for there was something about the spot that frightened them, to say nothing of
the horrible smell which made Tua feel ill. It was a great tank, with a little artificial island
in its centre, full of slimy water that looked almost black because of the shadow of the high
walls, and round it ran a narrow stone path. At one spot in this path, however, where grew
some dank-looking trees and bushes, was a slope, also of stone, and on the slope with its prow
resting in the water a little boat, and in the boat, oars. But of the crocodile there was nothing
to be seen.

"It is asleep somewhere," whispered Tua, "let us go away, I do not like this stench."

"Stench," answered Rames. "I smell nothing except the lilies on the water. Let us wake it up,
it would be silly to go now. Surely you are not afraid, O Star."

"Oh, no! I am not afraid," answered Tua proudly. "Only wake it up quickly, please."

What Rames did not add was that it would be impossible to retreat as the door had closed behind
them, and there was no keyhole on its inner side.

So they walked round the tank, but wherever it might lurk, the sleeping crocodile refused to wake.

"Let us get into the boat and look for it," suggested Rames. "Perhaps it is hiding on the island."

So he led her to the stone slope, where to her horror Tua saw the remains of the crocodile's
last meal, a sight that caused her to forget her doubts and jump into the boat very quickly.
Then Rames gave it a push and sprang in after her, so that they found themselves floating on
the water. Now, standing in the bow, the boy took an oar and paddled round the island, but
still there were no signs of the crocodile.

"I don't believe it is here at all," he said, recovering his courage.

"You might try the pigeon," suggested Tua, who, now that there was less smell, felt her curiosity
returning.

This was a good thought upon which Rames acted at once. Taking the dead bird from the bag he
spread out its wings to make it look as though it were alive, and threw it into the water,
exclaiming, "Arise, O Holy Crocodile!"

Then with fearful suddenness, whence they knew not, that crocodile arose. An awful scaly head
appeared with dull eyes and countless flashing fangs, and behind the head cubit upon cubit
of monstrous form. The fangs closed upon the pigeon and everything vanished.

"That was the Holy Crocodile," said Rames abstractedly as he stared at the boiling waters,
"which has lived here during the reigns of eight Pharaohs, and perhaps longer. Now we have
seen it."

"Yes," answered Tua, "and I never want to see it again. Get me away quick, or I will tell your
father."

Thus adjured the boy, nothing loth, seized his oar, when suddenly the ancient crocodile, having
swallowed the dove, thrust up its snout immediately beneath them and began to follow the boat.
Now Tua screamed aloud and said something about her Ka.

"Tell it to keep off the crocodile," shouted Rames as he worked the oar furiously. "Nothing
can hurt a Ka."

But the crocodile would not be kept off. On the contrary, it thrust its grey snout and one
of its claws over the stern of the boat in such a fashion that Rames could no longer work the
oar, dragging it almost under water, and snapped with its horrible jaws.

"Oh! it is coming in; we are going to be eaten," cried Tua.

At that moment the boat touched the landing-place and swung round, so that its bow, where Tua
was, struck the head of the crocodile, which seemed to infuriate the beast. At least, it hurled
itself upon the boat, causing the fore part to heel over, fill with water, and begin to sink.
Then the little lad, Rames, showed the courage that was in him. Shouting to Tua:

"Get on shore, get on shore!" he plunged past her and smote the huge reptile upon the head
with the blade of his oar. It opened its hideous mouth, and he thrust the oar into it and held on.

"Leave go," cried Tua, as she scrambled to land.

But Rames would not leave go, for in his brave little heart he thought that if he did the crocodile
would follow Tua and eat her. So he clung to the handle till it was wrenched from him. Indeed
he did more, for seeing that the crocodile had bitten the wooden blade in two and, having dropped
it, was still advancing towards the slope where it was accustomed to be fed, he leapt into
the water and struck it in the eye with his little fist. Feeling the pain of the blow the monster
snapped at him, and catching him by the hand began to sink back into deep water, dragging the
lad after it.

Rames said nothing, but Tua, who already was at the head of the stage, looked round and saw
the agony on his face.

"Help me, Amen!" she cried, and flying back, grasped Rames by his left arm just as he was falling
over, then set her heels in a crack of the rock and held on. For one moment she was dragged
forward till she thought that she must fall upon her face and be drowned or eaten with Rames,
but the next something yielded, and she and the boy tumbled in a heap upon the stones. They
rose and staggered together to the terrace. As they went Tua saw that Rames was looking at
his right hand curiously; also that it was covered with blood, and that the little finger was
torn off it. Then she remembered nothing further, except a sound of shouts and of heavy hammering
at the copper door.

When she recovered it was to find herself in the house of Mermes with the lady Asti bending
over her and weeping.

"Why do you weep, Nurse?" she asked, "seeing that I am safe?"

"I weep for my son, Princess," she answered between her sobs.

"Is he dead of his wounds, then, Asti?"

"No, O Morning Star, he lies sick in his chamber. But soon Pharaoh will kill him because he
led her who will be Queen of Egypt into great danger of her life."

"Not so," said Tua, springing up, "for he saved my life."

As she spoke the door opened and in came Pharaoh himself, who had been summoned hastily from
the palace. His face was white and he shook with fear, for it had been reported to him that
his only child was drowned. When he saw that she lived and was not even hurt, he could not
contain his joy, but casting his arms about her, sank to his knees giving thanks to the gods
and the guardian spirits. She kissed him, and studying his face with her wise eyes, asked why
he was so much afraid.

"Because I thought you had been killed, my daughter."

"Why did you think that, O my father, seeing that the great god, Amen, before I was born promised
to protect me always, though it is true that had it not been for Rames----"

Now at the mention of this name Pharaoh was filled with rage.

"Speak not of that wicked lad," he exclaimed, "now or ever more, for he shall be scourged till
he dies!"

"My father," answered Tua, springing up, "forget those words, for if Rames dies I will die
also. It is I who am to blame, not he, for my Ka warned me not to look upon the beast, but
to Rames no Ka spoke. Moreover, when that evil god would have eaten me it was Rames who fought
with it and offered himself to its jaws in my place. Listen, my father, while I tell you all
the story."

So Pharaoh listened, and when it was done he sent for Rames. Presently the boy was carried
in, for he had lost so much blood that he could not walk, and was placed upon a stool before him.

"Slay me now, O Pharaoh," he said in a weak voice, "for I have sinned. Moreover, I shall die
happy since my spirit gave me strength to beat off the evil beast from the Princess whom I
led into trouble."

"Truly you have done wickedly," said Pharaoh, shaking his head at him, "and, therefore, perhaps,
you will lose your hand and even your life. Yet, child, you have a royal heart, who first saved
your playmate and then, even in my presence, take all the blame upon yourself. Therefore I
forgive you, son of Mermes; moreover, I see that I was wise not to listen to those who counselled
that you should be put away at birth," and bending over the boy, Pharaoh kissed him on the brow.

Also he gave orders that the greatest physicians in the land should attend upon him and purge
the poison of the crocodile's teeth from his body, and when he recovered--which save for the
loss of the little finger of his right hand, he did completely--he sent him a sword with a
handle of gold fashioned to the shape of a crocodile, in place of the knife which he had paid
away for the pigeon, bidding him use it bravely all his life in defence of her who would be
his queen. Further, although he was still so young, he gave to him the high title of Count
in earnest of his love and favour, and with it a name that meant Defender of the Royal Lady.

After he had gone Asti the prophetess looked at the sword which Pharaoh had given to her son.

"I see royal blood on it," she said, and handed it back to Rames.

But Rames and Tua were no more allowed to play together alone, for always after this the Princess
was accompanied by women of honour and an armed guard. Also, within a year or two the boy was
placed in charge of a general to be brought up as a soldier, a trade that he liked well enough,
so that from this time forward he and Neter-Tua met but seldom. Still there was a bond between
them which could not be broken by absence, for already they loved each other, and every night
and morning when Tua made her petitions to Amen, after praying for Pharaoh her father, and
for the spirit of her royal mother, Ahura, she prayed for Rames, and that they might meet soon.
For the months when her eyes did not fall upon his face were wearisome to Tua.

CHAPTER IV

THE SUMMONING OF AMEN

The years went by and the Princess Neter-Tua, who was called Morning Star of Amen, came at
length to womanhood, and went through the ceremonies of Purification. In all Egypt there was
no maiden so wise and spirited or so lovely. Tall and slender was her shape, blue as the sea
were her eyes, rosy like the dawn were her cheeks, and when she did not wear it in a net of
gold, her black and curling hair fell almost to her waist. Also she was very learned, for priests
and priestesses taught her all things that she ought to know, together with the arts of playing
on the harp and of singing and dancing, while her own excellent Spirit, that Ka which Amen
had given her, instructed her in a deeper wisdom which she gathered unconsciously in sleep
and waking dreams, as the slumbering earth gathers dew at night.

Moreover, her father, the wise old Pharaoh, opened to her the craft of statesmanship, by help
of which she might govern men and overthrow her enemies. Indeed, he did more, for when her
education was finished, he joined her with him in the government of Egypt, saying:

"I who always lacked bodily strength, grow aged and feeble. This mighty crown is too heavy
for me to bear alone. Daughter, you must share its weight."

So the young Neter-Tua became a queen, and great was the ceremony of her coronation. The high
priests and priestesses, clothed in the robes and symbols of their gods and goddesses, addressed
speeches to her and blessed her in their names, giving her every good gift and promising to
her eternal life. Princes and nobles made her offerings; foreign chiefs and kings bowed before
her by their ambassadors. The Counts and headmen of the Two Lands swore allegiance to her,
and, finally, in the presence of all the Court, Pharaoh himself set the double crown upon her
brow and gave her her throne-names of "Glorious in Ra and Hathor Strong in Beauty."

So for a while Tua sat splendid on her golden seat while the people adored her, but in that
triumphant hour her eyes searched for one face only, that of the tall and gallant captain,
Rames, her foster-brother, and for a moment rested there content. Yes, their eyes met, those
of the new-crowned Empress on her throne and of the youthful noble in the throng below. Short
was the greeting, for next instant she looked away, yet more full of meaning than whole days
of speech.

"The Queen does not forget what the child remembered, the goddess is still a woman," it seemed
to say. And so sweet was that message that Rames staggered from the Court like one stricken
by the sun.

Night came at last, and having dismissed her secretaries, scribes and tire-women the weary
girl, now clad in simple white, sat in her chamber alone. She thought of all the splendours
through which she had passed; she thought of the glories of her imperial state, of the power
that she wielded, and of the proud future which stretched before her feet. But most of all
she thought of the face of the young Count Rames, the playmate of her childhood, the man she
loved, and wondered, ah! how she wondered, if with all her power she could ever draw him to
her side. If not, of what use was this rule over millions, this dominion of her world? They
called her a goddess, and in truth, at times, she believed that she was half-divine, but if
so, why did her heart ache like that of any common maid?

Moreover, was she really set above the misfortunes of her race? Could a throne, however bright
with gold, lift her above the sorrows of human kind? She desired to learn the truth, the very
truth. Her mind was urgent, it drove her on to search out things to come, to stand face to
face with them, even if they were evil. Well, she believed she had the strength, although,
as yet, she had never called it to her aid.

Also this thing could not be done alone. Tua thought a while, then going to the door of her
chamber she bade a woman who waited without summon to her the Lady Asti, priestess of Amen,
Interpreter of Heaven. Presently Asti came, for now, as always, she was in attendance upon
the new-crowned queen, a tall and noble-looking woman with fine-cut features and black hair,
that although she was fifty years of age, still showed no trace of grey.

"I was in the Sanctuary when your Majesty summoned me," she said, pointing to the sacred robe
she wore. "Let your Majesty pardon me, therefore, if I have been long in coming," and she bowed
low before her.

But the Queen lifted her up and kissed her, saying,

"I am weary of those high titles whereof I have heard more than enough to-day. Call me Tua,
O my mother, for so you have ever been to me, from whose breast I drew the milk of life."

"What ails you, my child?" asked Asti. "Was the crown too heavy for this young head of yours?"
she added, stretching out her delicate hand and stroking the black and curling hair.

"Aye, Mother, the weight of it seemed to crush me with its gems and gold. I am weary and yet
I cannot sleep. Tell me, why did Pharaoh summon that Council after the feast? Mermes was one
of them, so you must know. And why was not I, who henceforth rule with Pharaoh, present with him?"

"Would you learn?" said Asti with a little smile. "Well, as Queen you have the right. It was
because they discussed the matter of your marriage."

For a moment a light shone upon Tua's face. Then she asked anxiously:

"My marriage, and with whom?"

"Oh! many names were mentioned, Child, since she who rules Egypt does not lack for suitors."

"Tell me them quick, Asti."

So she told them, there were seven in all, the Prince of Kesh, the sons of foreign kings, great
nobles, and a general of the army who claimed descent from a former Pharaoh.

As each name fell from Asti's lips Tua waved her hand, saying scornful words, such as "I know
him not," "Too old," "Fat and hideous," "A foreign dog who spits upon our gods," and so forth,
adding at last:

"Go on."

"That is all, Lady, no other name was mentioned, and the Council adjourned to consider these."

"No other name?"

"Do you then miss one, perchance, Tua?"

She made no answer, only her lips seemed to shape themselves to a certain sound that they did
not utter. The two women looked each other in the eyes, then Asti shook her head.

"It may not be," she whispered, "for many reasons, and amongst them that by the solemn decree
of long ago whereof I have told you, our blood is barred for ever from the throne. None would
dare to break it, not even the Pharaoh himself. You would bring my son to his death, Tua, which
such another look as you gave him in yonder hall would surely do."

"No," she answered slowly, "I would not bring him to his death, but to life and honour and--love,
and one day I shall be Pharaoh. Only, Asti, if you betray me to him I swear that I will bring
you to your death, although you are so dear."

"I shall not betray you," answered the priestess, smiling again. "In truth, most Beautiful,
I do not think there is any need, even if I would. Say now, why did a certain captain turn
faint and leave the hall to-day when your eyes chanced to fall on him?"

"The heat," suggested Tua, colouring.

"Yes, it was hot, but he is stronger than most men and had borne it long--like others. Still
there are fires----"

"Because he was afraid of my majesty," broke in Tua hurriedly. "You know I looked very royal
there, Mother."

"Yes, doubtless fear moved him--or some other passion. Yet, Beloved, put that thought from
your heart as I do. When you are Pharaoh you will learn that a monarch is a slave to the people
and to the law. Breathe but his name in love, and never will you see him more till you meet
before Osiris."

Tua hid her eyes in her hands for a moment, then she glanced up and there was another look
upon her face, a strange, new look.

"When I am Pharaoh," she answered, "there are certain matters in which I will be my own law,
and if the people do not like it, they may find another Pharaoh."

Asti started at her words, and a light of joy shone in her deep eyes.

"Truly your heart is high," she said; "but, oh! if you love me--and another--bury that thought,
bury it deep, or he will never live to see you placed alone upon the golden seat. Know, Lady,
that already from hour to hour I fear for him--lest he should drink a poisoned cup, lest at
night he should chance to stumble against a spear, lest an arrow--shot in sport--should fall
against his throat and none know whence it came."

Tua clenched her hands.

"If so, there should be such vengeance as Egypt has not heard of since Mena ruled."

"Of what use is vengeance, Child, when the heart is empty and the tomb is sealed?"

Again Tua thought. Then she said:

"There are other gods besides Osiris. Now what do men call me, Mother? Nay, not my royal names."

"They call you Morning Star of Amen; they call you Daughter of Amen."

"Is that story true, Asti the Magician?"

"Aye, at least your mother dreamed the dream, for she told it to me and I have read its record,
who am a priestess of Amen."

"Then this high god should love me, should he not? He should hear my prayers and give me power--he
should protect those who are dear to me. Mother, they say that you, the Mistress of secret
things, can open the ears of the gods and cause their mouths to speak. Mother, I command you
as your Queen, call up my father Amen before me, so that I may talk with him, for I have words
to which he must listen."

"Are you not afraid?" asked Asti, looking at her curiously. "He is the greatest of all the
gods, and to summon him lightly is a sacrilege."

"Should a daughter fear her father?" answered Tua.

"When the divine Queen your mother and Pharaoh knelt before him in his shrine, praying that
a child might be given to them, Amen did not deign to appear to them, save afterwards in a
dream. Will you dare more than they? Lie down and dream, O Star of the Morning."

"Nay, I trust no dreams which change like summer clouds and pass as soon," answered the girl
boldly. "If the god is my father, in the spirit or the flesh, I know not which, let him appear
before me face to face. I ask his wisdom for myself and his favour for another. Call him, if
you have the power, Asti. Call him even if he slay me. Better that I should die than----"

"Hush!" said Asti, laying her hand upon her lips, "speak not that name. Well, I have some skill,
and for your sake--and another's--I will try, but not here. Perchance he may listen, perchance
not, or, perchance, if he comes you and I must pay the price. Put on your robes, now, O Queen,
and over them this veil, and follow me--if you dare."

Along narrow passages they crept and down many a secret-stair, till at length they came to
a door at the foot of a long slope of rock. This door Asti unlocked and thrust open, then when
they had entered, re-locked it behind them.

"What is this place?" whispered Tua.

"The burial crypt of the high priestesses of Amen, where it is said that the god watches. None
have entered it for hard on thirty years. See here in the dust run the footsteps of those who
bore the last priestess to her rest."

She held up her lamp, and by the light of it Tua saw that they were in a great cave painted
with figures of the gods which had on either side of it recesses. In each of these was set
a coffin with a gilded face, and behind it an alabaster statue of her who lay therein, and
in front of it a table of offerings. At the head of the crypt stood a small altar of black
stone, for the rest the place was empty.

Asti led Tua to a step in front of the altar and bidding her kneel, departed with the lamp
which she hid away in some side chapel, so that now the darkness was intense. Presently, through
the utter silence, Tua heard her creep back towards her, for although she walked so softly
the dust seemed to cry beneath her feet, and her every footstep echoed round the vaulted walls.
Moreover, a glow came from her, the glow of her life in that place of death. She passed Tua
and knelt by the altar and the echo of her movements died away. Only it seemed to Tua that
from each of the tombs to the right and to the left rose the Ka of her who was buried there,
and drew near to watch and listen. She could not see them, she could not hear them, yet she
knew that they were there and was able to count their number--thirty and two in all--while
within herself rose a picture of them, each differing from the other, but all white, expectant,
solemn.

Now Tua heard Asti murmuring secret invocations that she did not understand. In that place
and silence they sounded weird and dreadful, and as she hearkened to them, for the first time
fear crept over her. Kneeling there upon her knees she bent her head almost to the dust and
put up prayers to Amen that he might be pleased to hear her and to satisfy the longings of
her heart. She prayed and prayed till she grew faint and weary, while always Asti uttered her
invocations. But no answer came, no deity appeared, no voice spoke. At length Asti rose, and
coming to her, whispered in her ear:

"Let us depart ere the watching spirits, whose rest we have broken, grow wrath with us. The
god has shut his ears."

So Tua rose, clinging to Asti, for now, she knew not why, her fear grew and deepened. For a
moment she stood upon her feet, then sank to her knees again, for there at the far end of the
great tomb, near to the door by which they had entered, appeared a glow upon the darkness.
Slowly it took form, the form of a woman clad in the royal robes of Egypt, and bearing in its
hand a sceptre. The figure of light advanced towards them, so that presently they saw its face.
Tua did not know the face, though it seemed to her to be like her own, but Asti knew it, and
at the sight sank to the ground.

Now the figure stood in front of them, a thing of light framed in the thick darkness, and now
in a sweet, low voice it spoke.

"Hail! Queen of Egypt," it said. "Hail! Neter-Tua, Daughter of Amen. Art thou afraid to look
on the spirit of her who bore thee, thou that didst dare to summon the Father of the gods to
do thy bidding?"

"I am afraid," answered Tua, shaking in all her limbs.

"And thou, Asti the Magician, art thou afraid also, who but now wast bold enough to cry to
Amen-Ra--'Come from thy high heaven and make answer'?"

"It is even so, O Queen Ahura," murmured Asti.

"Woman," went on the voice, "thy sin is great, and great is the sin of this royal one at thy
side. Had Amen hearkened, how would the two of you have stood before his glory, who at the
sight of this shape of mine that once was mortal like yourselves, crouch choking to the earth?
I tell you both that had the god arisen, as in your wickedness ye willed, there where ye knelt,
there ye would have died. But he who knows all is merciful, and in his place has sent me his
messenger that ye may live to look upon to-morrow's sun."

"Let Amen pardon us!" gasped Tua, "it was my sin, O Mother, for I commanded Asti and she obeyed
me. On me be the blame, not on her, for I am torn with doubts and fears, for myself and for
another. I would know the future."

"Why, O Queen Neter-Tua, why wouldst thou know the future? If hell yawns beneath thy feet,
why wouldst thou peep through its golden doors before the time? The future is hid from mortals
because, could they pierce its veil, it would crush them with its terrors. If all the woes
of life and death lay open the gaze, who would dare to live and who--oh! who could dare to die?"

"Then woes await me, O thou who wast my mother?"

"How can it be otherwise? Light and darkness make the day, joy and sorrow make the life. Thou
art human, be content."

"Divine also, O Ahura, if all tales be true."

"Then pay for thy divinity in tears and be satisfied. Content is the guerdon of the beast,
but gods are wafted upwards on the wings of pain. How can that gold be pure which has not known
the fire?"

"Thou tellest me nothing," wailed Tua, "and it is not for myself I ask. I am fair, I am Amen's
daughter, and splendid is my heritage. Yet, O Dweller in Osiris, thou who once didst fill the
place I hold to-day, I tell thee that I would pay away this pomp, could I but be sure that
I shall not live loveless, that I shall not be given as a chattel to one whom I hate, that
one--whom I do not hate--will live to call me--wife. Great dangers threaten him--and me, Amen
is mighty; he is the potter that moulds the clay of men; if I be his child, if his spirit is
breathed into me, oh! let him help me now."

"Let thine own faith help thee. Are not the words of Amen, which he spake concerning thee,
written down? Study them and ask no more. Love is an arrow that does not miss its mark; it
is the immortal fire from on high which winds and waters cannot quench. Therefore love on.
Thou shalt not love in vain. Queen and Daughter, fare thee well awhile."

"Nay, nay, one word, Immortal. I thank thee, thou Messenger of the gods, but when these troubles
come upon me--and another, when the sea of dangers closes o'er our heads, when shame is near
and I am lonely, as well may chance, then to whom shall I turn for succour?"

"Then thou hast one within thee who is strong to aid. It was given to thee at thy birth, O
Star of Amen, and Asti can call it forth. Come hither, thou Asti, and swiftly, for I must be
gone, and first I would speak with thee."

Asti crept forward, and the glowing shape in the royal robe bent over her so that the light
of it shone upon her face. It bent over her and seemed to whisper in her ear. Then it held
out its hands towards Tua as though in blessing, and instantly was not.

Once more the two women stood in Tua's chamber. Pale and shaken they looked into each other's eyes.

"You have had your will, Queen," said Asti; "for if Amen did not come, he sent a messenger,
and a royal one."

"Interpret me this vision," answered Tua, "for to me, at any rate, that Spirit said little."

"Nay, it said much. It said that love fails not of its reward, and what more went you out to seek?"

"Then I am glad," exclaimed Tua joyfully.

"Be not too glad, Queen, for to-night we have sinned, both of us, who dared to summon Amen
from his throne, and sin also fails not of its reward. Blood is the price of that oracle."

"Whose blood, Asti? Ours?"

"Nay, worse, that of those who are dear to us. Troubles arise in Egypt, Queen."

"You will not leave me when they break, Asti?"

"I may not if I would. The Fates have bound us together till the end, and that I think is far
away. I am yours as once you were mine when you lay upon my breast, but bid me no more to summon
Amen from his throne."

CHAPTER V

HOW RAMES FOUGHT THE PRINCE OF KESH

Now for a whole moon there were great festivals in Thebes, and in all of these Neter-Tua, "Glorious
in Ra, Hathor Strong in Beauty, Morning Star of Amen," must take her part as new-crowned Queen
of Egypt. Feast followed feast, and at each of them one of the suitors of her hand was the
guest of honour.

Then after it was done, Pharaoh her father and his councillors would wait upon her and ask
if this man was pleasing to her. Being wise, Tua would give no direct answer, only of most
of them she was rid in this way.

She demanded that the writing of the dream of her mother, Ahura, should be brought and read
before her, and when it had been read she pointed out that Amen promised to her a royal lover,
and that these chiefs and generals were not royal, therefore it was not of them that Amen spoke,
nor did she dare to turn her eyes on one whom the god had forbidden to her.

Of others who declared that they were kings, but who, being unable to leave their countries,
were represented by ambassadors, she said that not having seen them she could say nothing.
When they appeared at the Court of Egypt, she would consider them.

So at length only one suitor was left, the man whom she knew well Pharaoh and his councillors
desired that she should take as husband. This was Amathel, the Prince of Kesh, whose father,
an aged king, ruled at Napata, a great city far to the south, situated in a land that was called
an island because the river Nile embraced it in its two arms. It was said that after Egypt
this country was the richest in the whole world, for there gold was so plentiful that men thought
it of less value than copper and iron; also there were mines in which beautiful stones were
found, and the soil grew corn in abundance.

Moreover, once in the far past, a race of Pharaohs sprung from this city of Napata, had sat
on the throne of Egypt, until at length the people of Egypt, headed by the priests, had risen
and overthrown them because they were foreigners and had introduced Nubian customs into the
land. Therefore it was decreed by an unalterable law that none of their race should ever again
wear the Double Crown. Of the descendants of these Pharaohs, Rames, Tua's playmate, was the
last lawful child.

But although the Egyptians had cast them down, at heart they always grieved over the rich territory
of Napata, which was lost to them, for when those Pharaohs fell Kesh declared itself independent
and set up another dynasty to rule over it, of which dynasty Amathel Prince of Kesh was the heir.

Therefore they hoped that it might come back to them by marriage between Amathel and the young
Queen Neter-Tua. Ever since she was born the great lords and councillors of Egypt, yes, and
Pharaoh himself, seeing that he had no son to whom he might marry her after the fashion of
the country, had been working to this end. It was by secret treaty that the Prince Amathel
was present at the crowning of the Queen, of whose hand he had been assured on the sole condition
that he came to dwell with her at Thebes. It is true that there were other suitors, but these,
as all of them knew well, were but pawns in a game played to amuse the people.

The king destined to take the great queen captive was Amathel and no other. Tua knew it, for
had not Asti told her, and was it not because of her fear of this man and her love for Rames
that she had dared to commit the sacrilege of attempting to summon Amen from the skies? Still,
as yet, the Pharaoh had not spoken to her of Amathel, nor had she met him. It was said that
he had been present at her crowning in disguise, for this proud prince gave out that were she
ten times Queen of Egypt, he would not pledge himself to wed as his royal wife, one who was
displeasing to him, and that therefore he must see her before he pressed his suit.

Now that he had seen her in her loveliness and glory, he announced that he was well satisfied,
which was but half the truth, for, in fact, she had set all his southern blood on fire, and
there was nothing that he desired more than to call her wife.

On the night which had been appointed for Amathel to meet his destined bride, a feast had been
prepared richer by far than any that went before. Tua, feigning ignorance, on entering the
great unroofed hall lit with hundreds of torches down all its length, and seeing the multitudes
at the tables, asked of the Pharaoh, her father, who was the guest that he would welcome with
such magnificence which seemed worthy of a god rather than of a man.

"My daughter," answered the old monarch nervously, "it is none other than the Prince of Kesh,
who in his own country they worship as divine, as we are worshipped here in Egypt, and who,
in truth, is, or will be, one of the greatest of kings."

"Kesh!" she answered, "I thought that we claimed sovereignty over that land."

"Once it was ours, Daughter," said her father with a sigh, "or rather the kings of Kesh were
also kings of Egypt, but their dynasty fell before my great-great-grandfather was called to
the throne, and now but three of their blood are left, Mermes, Captain of the Guard of Amen;
Asti, the Seer and Priestess, his wife, your foster-mother and waiting lady, and the young
Count Rames, a soldier in our army, who was your playmate, and as you may remember saved you
from the sacred crocodile."

"Yes, I remember," said Tua. "But then why is not Mermes King of Kesh?"

"Because the people of the city of Napata raised up another house to rule over them, of whom
Amathel is the heir."

"A usurping heir, surely, my father, if there be anything in blood."

"Say not that, Tua," replied Pharaoh sharply, "for then Mermes should be Pharaoh in our place
also."

Tua made no reply, only as they took their seats in the golden chairs at the head of the hall,
she asked carelessly:

"Is this Prince of Kesh also a suitor for my hand, O Pharaoh?"

"What else should he be, my daughter? Did you not know it? Be gracious to him now, since it
is decreed that you shall take him as a husband. Hush! answer not. He comes."

As he spoke a sound of wild music arose, and at the far end of the great hall appeared a band
of players gorgeously attired, who blew horns made from small tusks of the elephant, clashed
brazen cymbals and beat gilded drums. These advanced a little way up the hall and stood there
playing, while after them marched a bodyguard of twenty gigantic Nubian soldiers who carried
broad-bladed spears with shields of hippopotamus hide curiously worked, and were clothed in
tunics and caps of leopard-skin.

Next appeared the Prince of Kesh himself, a short, stout, broad-shouldered young man, thick-featured,
heavy-faced, and having large, rolling eyes. He was clad in festal garments, and hung about
with heavy chains of gold fastened with clasps of glittering stones, while from his crisp,
black hair rose a tall plume of nodding ostrich feathers. Fan bearers walked beside him, and
the train of his long cloak was borne by two black and hideous dwarfs, full-grown men but no
taller than a child of eight.

With one swift glance, while he was yet far away, Tua studied the man from head to foot, and
hated him as she had never hated anyone before. Then she looked over his head, as from her
raised seat upon the dais she was able to do, and saw that behind him came a second guard of
picked Egyptian soldiers, and that in command of them, simply clad in his scaled armour of
bronze, and wearing upon his thigh the golden-handled sword that Pharaoh had given him, was
none other than the young Count Rames, her playmate and foster-brother, the man whom her heart
loved. At the sight of his tall and noble form and fine-cut face rising above the coarse, squat
figure of the Ethiopian prince, Tua blushed rosy red, but Pharaoh noting it, only thought,
as others did, that it was because now for the first time her eyes fell upon him who would
be her husband.

Why, Tua wondered, was Rames chosen to attend upon the Prince Amathel? At once the answer rose
in her mind. Doubtless it had been done to gratify the pride of Amathel, not by Pharaoh, who
would know nothing of such matters, but by some bribed councillor, or steward of the household.
Rames was of more ancient blood than Amathel, and by right should be the King of Kesh, as he
should also be Pharaoh of Egypt; therefore, to humble him he was set to wait upon Amathel.

Moreover, it was guessed that the young Queen looked kindly upon this Count Rames with whom
she had been nursed, and who, like herself, was beautiful to behold. Therefore, to abase him
in her eyes he had been commanded to appear walking in the train of Amathel and given charge
over his sacred person at the feast.

In a moment Tua understood it all, and made a vow before her father Amen that soon or late
those who had planned this outrage should pay its price, nor did she forget that promise in
the after days.

Now the Prince had mounted the dais and was bowing low to Pharaoh and to her, and they must
rise and bow in answer. Then Pharaoh welcomed him to Egypt in few, well-chosen words, giving
him all his titles and speaking meaningly of the ancient ties which had linked their kingdoms,
ties which, he prayed, might yet draw them close again.

He ceased and looked at Tua who, as Queen, had also a speech to deliver that had been given
to her in writing. Although she remembered this well enough, for the roll lay beside her, never
a word would she read, but turned round and bade one of her waiting-ladies bring her a fan.

So after a pause that seemed somewhat long Amathel delivered his answer that was learned by
rote, for it replied to "gentle words from the lips of the divine Queen that made his heart
to flower like the desert after rain," not one of which had she spoken. Thereon Tua, looking
over the top of her fan, saw Rames smile grimly, while unable to restrain themselves, some
of the great personages at the feast broke out laughing, and bowed down their heads to hide
their merriment.

With an angry scowl the Prince turned and commanded that the gifts should be brought. Now slaves
advanced bearing cups of worked gold, elephants and other beasts fashioned in gold, and golden
vases full of incense, which he presented to Pharaoh on behalf of his father, the King of Kesh
and himself, saying boastfully that in his country such things were common, and that he would
have brought more of them had it not been for their weight.

When Pharaoh had thanked him, answering gently that Egypt too was not poor, as he hoped that
he would find upon the morrow, the Prince, on his own behalf alone, offered to the Queen other
presents, among them pectorals and necklaces without price fashioned of amethysts and sapphires.
Also, because she was known to be the first of musicians and the sweetest-voiced lady in the
land--for these were the greatest of the gifts that Tua had from Amen--he gave to her a wonderfully
worked harp of ivory with golden strings, the frame of the harp being fashioned to the shape
of a woman, and two black female slaves laden with ornaments, who were said to be the best
singers in the Southern Land.

Now Pharaoh whispered to Tua to put on one of the necklaces, but she would not, saying that
the colour of the stones did not match her white robe and the blue lotus flowers which she
wore. Instead, she thanked Amathel coldly but courteously, and without looking at his gifts,
told the royal Nurse, Asti, who stood behind her, to bear them away and to place them at a
distance, as the perfumes that had been poured over them, oppressed her. Only, as though by
an afterthought, she bade them leave the ivory harp.

Thus inauspiciously enough the feast began. At it Amathel drank much of the sweet wine of Asi
or Cyprus, commanding Rames, who stood behind him, to fill his cup again and again, though
whether he did this because he was nearest to him, or to lower him to the rank of a butler,
Tua did not know. At least, having no choice, Rames obeyed, though cup-filling was no fitting
task for a Count of Egypt and an officer of Pharaoh's guard.

When the waiting women, clad in net worked with spangles of gold, had borne away the meats,
conjurers appeared who did wonderful feats, amongst other things causing a likeness of Queen
Neter-Tua wearing her royal robes and having a star upon her brow, to arise out of a vase.

Then, as they had arranged, they strove to do the same for the Prince Amathel, but Asti who
had more magic than all of them, watching behind Tua's chair, put out her strength and threw
a spell upon them.

Behold! instead of the form of the Prince, which these conjurers summoned loudly and by name,
there appeared out of the vase a monkey wearing a crown and feathers that yet resembled him
somewhat, which black and hideous ape stood there for a while seeming to gibber at them, then
fell down and vanished away.

Now some of the audience laughed and some were silent, but Pharaoh, not knowing whether this
were a plot or an evil omen from the gods, frowned and looked anxiously at his guest. As it
chanced, however, the Prince, fired with wine, was so engaged in staring at the loveliness
of Tua, that he took no note of the thing, while the Queen looked upwards and seemed to see
nothing. As for the conjurers, they fled from the hall, fearing for their lives, and wondering
what strong spirit had entered into the vase and spoilt the trick which they had prepared.

As they went singers and dancing women hurriedly took their place, till Tua, wearying of the
stare of Amathel, waved her hand and said that she wished to hear those two Nubian slaves whose
voices were said to be so wonderful. So they were brought forward with their harps, and having
prostrated themselves, began to play and sing very sweetly, Nubian songs melancholy and wild,
whereof few could understand the meaning. So well did they sing, indeed, that when they had
done, Neter-Tua said:

"You have pleased me much, and in payment I give you a royal gift. I give you your freedom,
and appoint that henceforth you shall sing before the Court, if you think fit to stay here,
not as slaves but for hire."

Then the two women prostrated themselves again before her Majesty and blessed her, for they
knew that they could earn wealth by their gift, and the rich courtiers taking the Queen's cue,
flung rings and ornaments to them, so that in a minute they got more gold than ever they had
dreamed of, who were but kidnapped slaves. But Prince Amathel grew angry and said:

"Some might have been pleased to keep the priceless gift of the best singers in the world."

"Do you say that these sweet-voiced women are the best singers in the world, O Prince?" asked
Tua, speaking to him for the first time. "Now if you will be pleased to listen, you provoke
me to make trial of my own small skill that I may learn how far I fall short of 'the best singers
in the world.'"

Then she lifted up the ivory harp with the strings of gold and swept her fingers over it, trying
its notes and adjusting them with the agate screws, looking at Amathel all the while with a
challenge in her lovely eyes.

"Nay, nay, my daughter," said Pharaoh, "it is scarcely fitting that a queen of Egypt should
sing before all this noble company."

"Why not, my father?" she asked. "To-night we all do honour to the heir of his Majesty of Kesh.
Pharaoh receives him, Pharaoh's daughter accepts his gifts, the highest in the land surround
him," then she paused and added slowly, "one of blood more ancient than his own waits on him
as cup-bearer, one whose race built up the throne his father fills," and she pointed to Rames,
who stood near by holding the vase of wine. "Why, then, should not Egypt's queen seek to please
our royal guest as best she may--since she has no other gift to give him?"

Then in the dead silence which followed this bold speech, whereof none could mistake the meaning,
Neter-Tua, Morning Star of Amen, rose from her seat. Pressing the ivory harp against her young
breast, she bent over it, her head crowned with the crown of Upper Egypt whereon glistened
the royal uræus, a snake about to strike, and swept the well-tuned strings.

Such magic was in her touch that instantly all else was forgotten, even the Pharaoh leaned
back in his golden chair to listen. Softly she struck at first, then by slow degrees ever louder
till the music of the harp rang through the pillared hall. Now, at length, she lifted up her
heavenly voice and began to sing in a strain so wild and sweet that it seemed to pierce to
the watching stars.

It was a sad and ancient love-tale that she sang, which told how a priestess of Hathor of high
degree loved and was beloved by a simple scribe whom she might not wed. It told how the scribe,
maddened by his passion, crept at night into the very sanctuary of the temple hoping to find
her there, and for his sacrilege was slain by the angry goddess. It told how the beautiful
priestess, coming alone to make prayer in the sanctuary for strength to resist her love, stumbled
over the lover's corpse and, knowing it, died of grief. It told how Hathor, goddess of love,
melted by the piteous sight, breathed back life into their nostrils, and since they might not
remain upon earth, wafted them to the Under-world, where they awoke and embraced and dwell
on for ever and for aye, triumphant and rejoicing.

All had heard this old, old story, but none had ever heard it so divinely sung. As Tua's pure
and lovely voice floated over them the listeners seemed to see that lover, daring all in his
desire, creep into the solemn sanctuary of the temple. They saw Hathor appear in her wrath
and smite him cold in death. They saw the beauteous priestess with her lamp, and heard her
wail her life away upon her darling's corpse; saw, too, the dead borne by spirits over the
borders of the world.

Then came that last burst of music thrilling and divine, and its rich, passionate notes seemed
to open the heavens to their sight. There in the deep sky they perceived the awakening of the
lovers and their embrace of perfect joy, and when a glory hid them, heard the victorious chant
of the priestess of love sighing itself away, faint and ever fainter, till at length its last
distant echoes died in the utter silence of the place of souls.

Tua ceased her music. Resting her still quivering harp upon the board, she sank back in her
chair of state, outworn, trembling, while in her pale face the blue eyes shone like stars.
There was stillness in the hall; the spell of that magical voice lay on the listeners; none
applauded, it seemed even that none dared to move, for men remembered that this wonderful young
Queen was said to be daughter of Amen, Master of the world, and thought that it had been given
to them to hearken, not to a royal maiden, but to a goddess of the skies.

Quiet they sat as though sleep had smitten them, only every man of their number stared at the
sweet pale face and at those radiant eyes. Drunk with passion and with wine, Amathel, Prince
of Kesh, leaned his heavy head upon his hand and stared like the rest. But those eyes did not
stay on him. Had he been a stone they could not have noted him less; they passed over him seeking
something beyond.

Slowly he turned to see what it might be at which the Morning Star of Amen gazed, and perceived
that the young captain who waited on him, he who was said to be of a race more ancient and
purer than his own, he whose house had reigned in the Southern Land when his ancestors were
but traffickers in gold, was also gazing at this royal singer. Yes, he bent forward to gaze
as though a spell drew him, a spell, or the eyes of the Queen, and there was that upon his
face which even a drunken Nubian could not fail to understand.

In the hands of Rames was the tall, golden vase of wine, and as Amathel thrust back his chair
its topmost ivory bar struck the foot of the vase and tilted it, so that the red wine poured
in a torrent over the Prince's head and gorgeous robes, staining him from his crest of plumes
to his feet as though with blood. The
decoration of the facades, the monumental pieces of equipment of the interior: altar, pulpit, Singer stands,
will tabernacle, vestry well, candelabra, choir screen, where it always is concerned, a sculptor for
execution passed. But understanding and treatment of form are brand new, not only by the inclusion
of ancient decorative forms, and above all the artists are by their predecessors her sense
of style and the monumental sense of superiority by those objects regularly architecturally design and figurative
sculptures only a rising standard of form and as a thoughtful explanation of their Attach
importance. The grave monuments that are now gaining such extraordinary importance rare and do
not cover nearly all the walls of the churches, however, were already in the Trecento in the
same place, but the place of the Holy Sepulcher, the only exception find a pen, does the private
grave, and the national monuments, and supported by columns, is covered with a canopy of the fourteenth
century sarcophagus by the tasteful, architecture the displaced structure blends niche grave. Above
the sarcophagus on the bed of the deceased in his official robes solemnly drawn up and the top end
of the most finely articulated and delicately decorated niche maintains a relief to make with the
Madonna, whose pages adoring angels.

If so, the interior of the church to a hall of fame personal and national pride is, the external
sides are often the place for the emulation of individual championship among the sculptors of the
Quattrocento become: the walls of Or San Michele and the Campanile such as (of course, never completed)
the facade of the Duomo in Florence are the classic examples for they were already the sixteenth
century as a kind of assembly points of the championship previous big-time.

Like the sculpture of the Quattrocento its objections to the fourteenth century, or borrowed
from the ancient world, it is It also characteristic of the same, that they in their motives
and even very modest is limited and every search for new subjects to avoid: their aim is rather
straight fact, the old to give a new form. In the sacred artwork is hardly a significant change make
against the previous designated time. The figures of Christ and Mary, the apostles and adopted evangelists,
the individual saints in the character and forms and held, in which the times of ancient dying
art for the new faith established and how they had the Trecento, including Giotto, developed.
If a Artists, especially when a sculptor is a deviation allowed is done, it regularly from
purely artistic considerations. Where, as in Florence, the local consciousness particularly strong
pronounced, individual saints or biblical heroes presented with fondness and remodeled as a kind
of emanation of the State to national heroes, so in Florence John Baptist, which replaced
the old city of Saint S. Zenobius all, St. George and David, and the freedom heroine Judith. In general,
the detention outweigh the traditional and religious awe so much naturalism of the time, that the
representation of the nude the holy motives remain almost banished. Where, exceptionally, as
in the Baptist and the Magdalene, the subject of the representation of the nude figure suggested,
drew the artist before it, a to create austere character figure whose pelts of animal skins or hides
from their own hair are. Only the youth figure of St. Francis. Sebastian and, very occasionally,
even the figures of Adam and Eve are used by some artists for exhibition teen beautiful body
been. The only general exception is now the strongest evidence for the chaste way of understanding
This realistic art: the formation of the naked child. The Christ child for staying in undressed
to be represented, as are the children angels. In the representation of the child, in of the art of the
time, and especially the plastic, with all the naivete and freshness of life was made, has
the Quattro Cento, under peculiar interaction of older Christian and antique models, created
their own type of exception, the putto. In an age when the Child at first stimulates the consciousness
of their own power and personality, is one of the putto peculiar mixture of Christian angels
and antique genius, a kind-hearted children goblin accompanied by a guardian angel of the people
in his life and ways to guard his tomb holds, which is a good spirit of the workshop and helping
artists everywhere adorning the side, the teasing and joking drives are harmless game, even in
the most serious motives Sacred history, in which she, albeit subordinate - in the border
- in a sense will serve to reconcile with the tragic content.

The religious and biblical themes by the allegory of the Church in Art of the Middle Ages under
the influence of scholasticism occupied an important place in the
Sculpture of the Quattrocento more limited application, while a more
liberal arts education.

This owes in addition to the naturalistic conception of time, above all, to the terminal the allegory
of the ancient world and continuing the same. Among the ecclesiastical virtues: faith, Love,
hope, joined to the secular virtues: strength, prudence, moderation, and with these are occasionally
found even in science equal rank. How is this so also be borrowed from the ancient allegorical
figures, like the glory, happiness, spring etc., as a beautiful young female characters formed,
identified only by their attributes are, the monstrous forms which the scholastic Deutelsucht
of Trecento art forced upon, the healthy and plastic sense of the Quattrocento were repugnant.

The
worship of the ancient world and aroused the same degree in the sculptors' interest of the fabrics
from ancient mythology and history. As the great art almost exclusively was limited to religious
duties, it was employed for the private cabaret, in which the joy could be found in such substances
Bethätigung full, in particular plastic the pictorial decoration
of small household appliances, such as inkwells, candlesticks, sword
handles, Brooches, boxes, etc., which we today usually only in its
individual parts, the so-called Plaques, have been preserved, and
also the reverse of the medals and cameos.

The motives are the most famous Roman classics, especially Ovid and Livy borrowed and, depending
on the determination of the object selected with a fine relationship: to find the sword handles
We regularly exploits of the legendary Roman hero Hercules, the work or similar representations,
the clasps Venus and Cupid, the love affairs of gods and the like

The strong naturalistic conception of the Quattrocento could from the start to the training close
of the genre in the plastic, so true to nature and even some genre-like motifs but are well conceived,
so have yet religious awe and sense a monumental development the plastic in that direction almost
completely retained. Only in the representation of the child, in the "Cherub," has the XV. Century
in Italy created a real genre figure, and just this exception is a testament to the taste and sense of style
this time, after which the top is (see p. 39) already mentioned.

One in name of unknown successor Donatello's modeled even groups of children in the rough design and
considers the peasant genre the later Dutch yield very little. Only an artist of Italy, Guido
Mazzoni in Modena, away from the major art centers, is in his realism so far that he regularly
his biblical motifs to coarse folk scenes converted from its surroundings, its famous colored
Thongruppen the worship of the child and the Pieta are obviously counterfeit the religious
folk drama of the time. Just Such exceptions make the taste and the great sense of Italian
art in general in order to appear sharper light.

So unassuming and conservative, the sculpture of the Quattrocento in the artwork is as varied
and new it is, a fourteenth-over, the material in which it carries out its statues, each accessible
and useful material in which an artistic execution was possible, by the sculptors of the fifteenth.
Cent was used, and the choice of the same but is often taken after the execution of the task and
regularly with a fine sense of style to the Character of the substance has been made accordingly.

The
most common and preferred material for nobler tasks is still the
marble.

Since the time of Niccolo Pisano heavily exploited quarries of Carrara provided a Abundance of the
most beautiful marble, the cold staining, the Italian artist (probably to give by letting in hot
wax) to a warm yellow tone understood. The marble was taken as such for the phenomenon, only
a few ornaments on the robes, the halos and hair were still gold and the background of the relief,
if he were not a landscape or architectural, was regularly given a gray-blue color, richer painting
of the Marble is found only exceptionally and for decorative purposes.

For those with the name of the Architecture working the marble sculpture is often replaced
by less expensive stone: the Venetian and in the Duchy of Urbino by the fine Italian limestone
(mostly from Venice to Istria related and then as pietra d'Istria), whether in Florence by the
fine-grained greenish-gray Sandstone from the Florence area (under the name pietra serena known).

The
processing of the marble, as also generally used as a replacement for entering lower Stones was done almost
exclusively through a variety of chisels. The drill was indeed applied next, but you did not understand
how in ancient times, also lead to the same length; to make such as a deep line you just put
a hole next to the other and chiseled then the small partitions on (compare the marble statue
of Michelangelo Giovannino No. 209). By this way, the various treatment works of antiquity and the Quattrocento
in doubt, keep apart most easily. The processing of fine Limestone could not have caused the great
seal and softness of it when he broke fresh was in an advanced stage of working with knives or knife-like
instruments , Which made an extraordinary sharpness of the execution
was possible (see the bust Urbin the princess, no. 62A, and the pilasters
of the Scuola di San Giovanni in Venice No. 169 and 170).

The polish that received the marble sculptures on a regular basis was not long as strong as in the
fourteenth century or late antiquity, but it was reinforced in an action by the tint, which
received the marble to the end.

New, but not as material, but the extent and in the manner of its use is the bronze. After the work of
the Byzantine artist was the Bronzethür of Andrea Pisano The first isolated test of a bronze
casting in the Great was, in the XV. Century won the same such a meaning, and thus gradually such
an artistic education, that the Bronze apparently was considered as the grandest monuments of any
kind of plastic material. Initially limited to the casting of reliefs, the bronze sculpture was
soon on statues Busts and intimate works of art extended, and while in the first half of the century
Statuettes had to be cast before fully reach many fonts so insufficient that the Ciselierung had
a prominent part in the completion of the bronzes, the later Bronzes already thin and lightweight,
with small sculptures, often à cire perdue cast and left all unciseliert. The castings seem mostly
to have been made on wax models.

The patina was because the buyer did not want to wait years, until the influence of the air
Patina, formed regularly produced artificially by the bronze with a blackish pitch-like mass was
covered, which has been polished likely. As time went from this by touching the heights, here was
then a natural patina that related to the artificial patina in the depths of her blunt blackish
clay is a fine scenic effect.

The joy of the plastic and the need to equip all public buildings with sculptures and even to
decorate the homes that had the training of expensive bronze sculpture caused, but it was also
the reason that the artists themselves for cheap had to look around materials to meet the needs of
the less well-off also to. Therefore we see now is a very large number of sculptures in wood
and particular run in clay, carved statues and single, exceptionally busts in Wood, richly painted
and gilded, we find almost only in special timber-rich areas, such as in the Apennine Mountains
and in northern Italy, especially on the slopes of the Alps and in the neighborhood same. Here
clearly the influence of the neighboring German art has influenced determining. Far more important,
especially for the artistic development of Italian sculpture, The sculpture is made in clay.
During the fourteenth century only very exceptionally for the clay sculptural purposes has been
used to win the same at the very beginning of the fifteenth century
a great importance as visual means of representation.

And not entirely alone in the stone-poor areas, as in Lombardy or the territory of Bologna and Ferrara:
straight Florence guided the transition from the fourteenth century in the new time, a number of sculptors
one which model primarily in clay and smaller churches and chapels, private altars and lintels,
with Madonna reliefs, sometimes the entire wall decoration of churches or Grave monuments,
and the tabernacle in the manufacture of clay roads. Was undoubtedly the cheapness and speed
of production of the reason for the choice of the material so identified the Florentine sculptor
soon the advantage which the clay as the easiest means for direct and genuine expression of
the artistic intention of offering, they used same therefore regularly for the production of small
sketches or models that the Place of the drawings were executed, according to which had worked the
Trecento regularly. Such designs in the Berlin collection include the relief of the Entombment
of Christ by Verrocchio (No. 97A) and Mary in limbo by B. da Majano (No. 589D). After the Thonmodellen
in the workshop often done by students or assistants, the marble and bronze sculptures; a division
of labor, as reflected particularly in Florence by the scope of some monuments out and formed
the accumulation of orders to the more famous artists of necessity. Such Models whose designs in
marble or bronze are still standing, are in our collection the bust of Filippo Strozzi by
B. da Majano (No. 85, marble version in the Louvre), the Tondo with the worship of A. Rossellino
(No. 64, marble run in the Bargello) and the relief of the Madonna of Bellano (No. 156A, bronze
finish at the Tomb De Castro S. Servi at Padua). Various other Thonarbeiten the collection
are undoubtedly also worked as models, if the monuments for which they were intended to demonstrate
not leave or ever came to execution.

All these were painted Thonbildwerke regularly, even the most models and sketches, as the same
store for their artistic value in the studios or to other artists were awarded, the natural color
of the fired clay but the color sense of the time were reluctant. The painting was executed in water
colors, and quite naturalistic, as in a Paintings. The colors were not usually applied directly
to the clay, but is overlaid same before, as the board for paintings, with a thin layer of chalk,
because on this Colors and gilding adhere better. Since some of these sculptures, as Straßentabernakel,
bezels, Friese and others, were intended to establish in the open air, so they gave the colors of
resistance against the weather, a lacquer coating, as he (112A No.), for example, still in the relief
of the Madonna is received. Such an overlay could only briefly the influence of water and Resist
sun, so Luca della Robbia came upon the idea of ​​his Thonskulpturen in the same to coat type as
the Thongefäße with a glaze. His experiments had the best success and found the most general applause
so that circumstances linked to an industry from which a century has long exercised in the
family of that artist through several generations. Florence and the dependent part of Florence
in central Italy owes them a very great Number of altars, tabernacles,
bezels, emblems, Friesen, exceptionally free characters, fonts etc.,
which are mostly preserved in place.

The Thonmodell was burned slightly (For larger monuments in several pieces), then painted
and after coating with a layer of enamel for the second time put into the fire. The painting was
(and indeed from the start even at Luca itself) either entirely in color, then the colors were
on white, blue, green, yellow, purple and black limited, or the figures were, in imitation
of marble, white left, then received only the background in a blue clay reliefs and ornaments,
halos and patterns were often gilded. The framing is usually made from plastic, colored held
fruit or flower wreaths of stylish arrangement, but the finest naturalistic Implementation.

The need for works of art for the home and worship the popularity of plastic, especially in
Florence, in addition to the various Thonbildwerken another kind of sculptures produced, the
stucco sculptures, mainly stucco reliefs. Counter to the output of the Trecento Florentine artists
had made few casts for their work in marble or stone and brought to full livery in the trade.
Since the beginning of the Quattrocento until towards the end of the century such copies for smaller
original sculptures produced in large quantities. In that instead of the Madonna image in the
fourteenth century now Madonna relief more and more devotional image was the home of the Florentine
citizen who came some of these stucco reliefs in hundreds of copies in the audience. Because of the
insignificance and worthlessness of the material is of course only a small part of it come down
to us and the resulting far the majority of dirt and overwriting is in effect more or less seriously
affected. But also make this and all the best services Complete the picture of each Florentine
artist, for many works of them, the originals were destroyed or lost, are we in such a stucco
replicas obtained. This stucco sculptures were regularly produced by molding, and that from
a essentially different from our gypsum mixture of marble dust and more or less coarse Sand,
a mixture that made this work to some degree weather resistant and allowed an artistic painting.
Only in exceptional cases, the piece also like Thon modeled and worked with knives, like the stucco
bust of a young girl Desiderio (No. 62 G) and the Florentine Madonna
relief (No. 63) show.

Those casts were in the Rule over the originals, but sometimes made about the models, and most are in
the workshop of the artist himself in this way the expensive originals were in Marble or bronze in
numerous copies in a very low price on all hands to come. The independent artistic value of the stucco
sculptures depends on their painting. Very were often the same course, only hand-painted factory of
painters, but was often The painting executed with great finesse, be it by the artist, the original
was manufactured, or by his friend, the painter. Regularly was this painting, as Thonbildwerken in
a complete and full-color, and only in exceptional cases it mimics the Marble (see Rossellino's
Madonna No. 72) or a bronze color after (see Luca's Madonna relief No. 114).

As in the fourteenth century, it also plays in the Quattrocento the Forged an important role
in the plastic, but had a number of the most accomplished sculptors trained at this time Goldsmithing
or excellent self as goldsmiths active. Apart from occasional jobs of Churches on completion
of that great silver altar with little relief and driven individual figures, as in Florence and Pistoia
are still there, had the goldsmith in particular the growing Making a claim to the artistic
design of jewelry and small home Devices to satisfy. Kußtäfelchen for worship in the home,
jewelry boxes of all kinds, inkwells, Chandeliers and lamps, hat-clasps, Schwertknäufe, closing, and
the like were in gold, silver or precious stones, especially produced in rock crystal and the
monumental sense time in the richest manner provided plastic. How does the artistic needs of
the Time in the painted stucco sculptures a means superior to the widest dissemination of larger
Plaques was found, the artist did in a similar manner the needs for those small commodities
to meet by the precious originals or the models of the same abformten and bronze (in exceptional
cases, lead [A]) nachgössen, the individual parts but were looking for property for sale in
the workshops of the sculptors and goldsmiths XV. and XVI. This second worts cent obtained by
a similar meaning to the sculpture as the signatory for the engraving arts. While the originals,
their noble material half to a small number were destroyed by melting, we are bronze replicas
of it in whole or only in certain parts, especially in the small relief plaques, the plaques
(PLACHETTES, plaquettes, see p. 39f.) Obtained numerous. The diverse, yet known plaques from
the fifteenth century and the first decades of the Cinquecento exceed The figure of one thousand,
and the Berlin collection alone has nearly eight hundred, the acquired almost without exception only
recently, while Goethe at the commencement of this Century with the
Italian medal, also a not inconsiderable collection of such Plaques
brought together (now at the Goethe Museum in Weimar).

 Presently I will summon you
to conduct him away."

They hesitated, for this thing seemed strange, then noting the look she gave them, departed
through the doors behind the royal seat.

Now Rames and the Queen were left alone in that great, lighted chamber. With bent head and
folded arms he stood before her while she looked at him intently, yet seemed to find no words
to say. At length she spoke in a sweet, low voice.

"It is many years since we were playmates in the courts of the temple yonder, and since then
we have never been alone together, have we, Rames?"

"No, Great Lady," answered Rames, "for you were born to be a queen, and I am but a humble soldier
who cannot hope to consort with queens."

"Who cannot hope! Would you wish to then if you could?"

"O Queen," answered Rames, biting his lips, "why does it please you to make a mock of me?"

"It does not please me to do any such thing, for by my father Amen, Rames, I wish that we were
children once more, for those were happy days before they separated us and set you to soldiering
and me to statecraft."

"You have learnt your part well, Star of the Morning," said Rames, glancing at her quickly.

"Not better than you, playmate Rames, if I may judge from your sword-play this night. So it
seems that we both of us are in the way of becoming masters of our trades."

"What am I to say to your Majesty? You have saved my life when it was forfeit----"

"As once you saved mine when it was forfeit, and at greater risk. Look at your hand, it will
remind you. It was but tit for tat. And, friend Rames, this day I came near to being eaten
by a worse crocodile than that which dwells in the pool yonder."

"I guessed as much, Queen, and the thought made me mad. Had it not been for that I should only
have thrown him down. Now that crocodile will eat no more maidens."

"No," answered Tua, rubbing her chin, "he has gone to be eaten by Set, Devourer of Souls, has
he not? But I think there may be trouble between Egypt and Kesh, and what Pharaoh will say
when he recovers I am sure I do not know. May the gods protect me from his wrath."

"Tell me, if it pleases your Majesty, what is my fate? I have been named General of this expedition
over the heads of many, I who am but a captain and a young man and an evil-doer. Am I to be
killed on the journey, or am I to be executed by the King of Kesh?"

"If any kill you on the journey, Rames, they shall render me an account, be it the gods themselves,
and as for the vengeance of the King of Kesh--well, you will have two thousand picked men with
you and the means to gather more as you go. Listen now, for this is not in the decree or in
the letters," she added, bending towards him and whispering. "Egypt has spies in Kesh, and,
being industrious, I have read their reports. The people there hate the upstart race that rules
them, and the king, who alone is left now that Amathel is dead, is old and half-witted, for
all that family drink too much. So if the worst comes to the worst, do you think that you need
be killed, you," she added meaningly, "who, if the House of Amathel were not, would by descent
be King of Kesh, as, if I and my House were not, you might be Pharaoh of Egypt?"

Rames studied the floor for a little, then looked up and asked:

"What shall I do?"

"It seems that is for you to find out," replied Tua, in her turn studying the ceiling. "Were
I in your place, I think that, if driven to it, I should know what to do. One thing, however,
I should not do. Whatever may be the judgment of the divine King of Kesh upon you, and that
can easily be guessed, I should not return to Egypt with my escort, until I was quite sure
of my welcome. No, I think that I should stop in Napata, which I am told is a rich and pleasant
city, and try to put its affairs in order, trusting that Egypt, to which it once belonged,
would in the end forgive me for so doing."

"I understand," said Rames, "that whatever happens, I alone am to blame."

"Good, and of course there are no witnesses to this talk of ours. Have you also been taking
lessons in statecraft in your spare hours, Rames, much as I have tried to learn something of
the art of war?"

Rames made no answer, only these two strange conspirators looked at each other and smiled.

"Your Majesty is weary. I must leave your Majesty," he said presently.

"You must be wearier than I am, Rames, with that wound, which I think has not been dressed,
although it is true that we have both fought to-night. Rames, you are going on a far journey.
I wonder if we shall ever meet again."

"I do not know," he answered with a groan, "but for my sake it is better that we should not.
O Morning Star, why did you save me this night, who would have been glad to die? Did not that
Ka of yours tell you that I should have been glad to die, or my mother, who is a magician?"

"I have seen nothing of my Ka, Rames, since we played together in the temple--ah! those were
happy days, were they not? And your mother is a discreet lady who does not talk to me about
you, except to warn me not to show you any favour, lest others should be jealous and murder
you. Shall you then be sorry if we do not meet again? Scarcely, I suppose, since you seem so
anxious to die and be rid of me and all things that we know."

Now Rames pressed his hand upon his heart as though to still its beating, and looked round
him in despair. For, indeed, that heart of his felt as though it must burst.

"Tua," he gasped desperately, "can you for a minute forget that you are Queen of the Upper
and the Lower Land, who perhaps will soon be Pharaoh, the mightiest monarch in the world, and
remember only that you are a woman, and as a woman hear a secret and keep it close?"

"We have been talking secrets, Rames, as we used to do, you remember, long ago, and you will
not tell mine which deal with the State. Why, then, should I tell yours? But be short, it grows
late, or rather early, and as you know, we shall not meet again."

"Good," he answered. "Queen Neter-Tua, I, your subject, dare to love you."

"What of that, Rames? I have millions of subjects who all profess to love me."

He waved his hand angrily, and went on:

"I dare to love you as a man loves a woman, not as a subject loves a queen."

"Ah!" she answered in a new and broken voice, "that is different, is it not? Well, all women
love to be loved, though some are queens and some are peasants, so why should I be angry? Rames,
now, as in past days, I thank you for your love."

"It is not enough," he said. "What is the use of giving love? Love should be lent. Love is
an usurer that asks high interest. Nay, not the interest only, but the capital and the interest
to boot. Oh, Star! what happens to the man who is so mad as to love the Queen of Egypt?"

Tua considered this problem as though it were a riddle to which she was seeking an answer.

"Who knows?" she replied at length in a low voice. "Perhaps it costs him his life, or perhaps--perhaps
he marries her and becomes Pharaoh of Egypt. Much might depend on whether the queen chanced
to care about such a man."

Now Rames shook like a reed in the evening wind, and he looked at her with glowing eyes.

"Tua," he whispered, "can it be possible--do you mean that I am welcome to you, or are you
but drawing me to shame and ruin?"

She made no answer to him in words, only with a certain grave deliberation, laid down the little
ivory sceptre that she held, and suffering her troubled eyes to rest upon his eyes, bent forward
and stretched out her arms towards him.

"Yes, Rames," she murmured into his ear a minute later, "I am drawing you to whatever may be
found upon this breast of mine, love, or majesty, or shame, or ruin, or the death of one or
both of us, or all of them together. Are you content to take the chances of this high game, Rames?"

"Ask it not, Tua. You know, you know!"

She kissed him on the lips, and all her heart and all her youth were in that kiss. Then, gently
enough, she pushed him from her, saying:

"Stand there, I would speak with you, and as I have said, the time is short. Hearken to me,
Rames, you are right; I know, as I have always known, and as you would have known also had
you been less foolish than you are. You love me and I love you, for so it was decreed where
souls are made, and so it has been from the beginning and so it shall be to the end. You, a
gentleman of Egypt, love the Queen of Egypt, and she is yours and no other man's. Such is the
decree of him who caused us to be born upon the same day, and to be nursed upon the same kind
breast. Well, after all, why not? If love brings death upon us, as well may chance, at least
the love will remain which is worth it all, and beyond death there is something."

"Only this, Tua, I seek the woman not a throne, and alas! through me you may be torn from your
high place."

"The throne goes with the woman, Rames, they cannot be separated. But, say, something comes
over me; if that happened, if I were an outcast, a wanderer, with nothing save this shape and
soul of mine, and it were you that sat upon a throne, would you still love me, Rames?"

"Why ask such questions?" he replied indignantly. "Moreover, your talk is childish. What throne
can I ever sit on?"

A change fell upon her at his words. She ceased to be the melting, passionate woman, and became
once more the strong, far-seeing queen.

"Rames," she said, "you understand why, although it tears my heart, I am sending you so far
away and into so many dangers, do you not? It is to save your life, for after what has chanced
to-night in this fashion or in that here you would certainly die, as, had it not been for that
plan of mine you must have died two hours ago. There are many who hate you, Rames, and Pharaoh
may recover, as I pray the gods he will, and over-ride my will, for you have slain his guest
who was brought here to marry me."

"I understand all of these things, Queen."

"Then awake, Rames, look to the future and understand that also, if, as I think, you have the
wit. I am sending you with a strong escort, am I not? Well, that King of Kesh is old and feeble,
and you have a claim upon his crown. Take it, man, and set it on your head, and as King of
Kesh ask the hand of Egypt's Queen in marriage. Then who would say you nay--not Egypt's Queen,
I think, or the people of Egypt who hunger for the rich Southern Land which they have lost."

So she spoke, and as these high words passed her lips she looked so splendid and so royal that,
dazzled by the greatness of her majesty. Rames bowed himself before her as before the presence
of a god. Then, aware that she was trying him in the balance of her judgment, he straightened
himself and spoke to her as prince speaks to prince.

"Star of Amen," he said, "it is true that though here we are but your humble subjects, the
blood of my father and of myself is as high as yours, and perhaps more ancient, and it is true
that now yonder Amathel is dead, after my father, in virtue of those who went before us I have
more right than any other to the inheritance of Kesh. Queen, I hear your words, I will take
it if I can, not for its own sake, but to win you, and if I fail you will know that I died
doing my best. Queen, we part and this is a far journey. Perhaps we may never meet again; at
the best we must be separated for long. Queen, you have honoured me with your love, and therefore
I ask a promise of you, not as a woman only, but as Queen. I ask that however strait may be
the circumstances, whatever reasons of State may push you on, while I live you will take no
other man to husband--no, not even if he offers you half the world in dower."

"I give it," she answered. "If you should learn that I am wed to any man upon the earth then
spit upon my name as a woman, and as Queen cast me off and overthrow me if you can. Deal with
me, Rames, as in such a case I will deal with you. Only be sure of your tidings ere you believe
them. Now there is nothing more to say. Farewell to you, Rames, till we meet again beneath
or beyond the sun. Our royal pact is made. Come, seal it and begone."

She rose and stretched out her sceptre to him, which he kissed as her faithful subject. Next,
with a swift movement, she lifted the golden uræus circlet from her brow and for a moment set
it on his head, crowning him her king, and while it rested there she, the Queen of Egypt, bent
the knee before him and did him homage. Then she cast down crown and sceptre, and as woman
fell upon her lover's breast while the bright rays of morning, flowing suddenly through the
eastern window-place of that splendid hall, struck upon them both, clothing them in a robe
of glory and of flame.

Soon, very soon, it was done and Tua, seated there in light, watched Rames depart into the
outer shadow, wondering when and how she would see him come again. For her heart was heavy
within her, and even in this hour of triumphant love she greatly feared the future and its gifts.

CHAPTER VII

TUA COMES TO MEMPHIS

So that day Rames departed for Takensit with what ships and men could be got together in such
haste. There, at the frontier post, he waited till the rest of the soldiers should join him,
bringing with them the hastily embalmed body of Prince Amathel whom he had slain, and the royal
gifts to the King of Kesh. Then, without a moment's delay, he sailed southwards with his little
army on the long journey, fearing lest if he tarried, orders might come to him to return to
Thebes. Also he desired to reach Napata before the heavy news of the death of the King's son,
and without warning of the approach of Egypt's embassy.

With Tua he had no more speech, although as his galley was rowed under the walls of the palace,
at a window of the royal apartments he saw a white draped figure that watched them go by. It
was standing in the shadow so that he could not recognise the face, but his heart told him
that this was none other than the Queen herself, who appeared there to bid him farewell.

So Rames rose from the chair in which he was seated on account of the hurt to his leg and saluted
with his sword, and ordered the crew to do likewise by lifting up their oars. Then the slender
figure bowed in answer, and he went on to fulfil his destiny, leaving Neter-Tua, Morning Star
of Amen, to fulfil hers.

Before he sailed, however, Mermes his father and Asti his mother visited him in a place apart.

"You were born under a strange star, my son," said Mermes, "and I know not whither it will
lead you, who pray that it may not be a meteor which blazes suddenly in the heavens and disappears
to return no more. All the people talk of the favour the Queen has shown you who, instead of
ordering you to be executed for the deed you did which robbed her of a royal husband, has set
you in command of an army, you, a mere youth, and received you in secret audience, an honour
granted to very few. Fate that has passed me by gives the dice to your young hand, but how
the cast will fall I know not, nor shall I live to see, or so I believe."

"Speak no such evil-omened words, my father," answered Rames tenderly, for these two loved
each other. "To me it seems more likely that it is I who shall not live, for this is a strange
and desperate venture upon which I go, to tell to a great king the news of the death of his
only son at my own hand. Mother, you are versed in the books of wisdom and can see that which
is hidden to our eyes. Have you no word of comfort for us?"

"My son," answered Asti, "I have searched the future, but with all my skill it will open little
of its secrets to my sight. Yet I have learned something. Great fortunes lie before you, and
I believe that you and I shall meet again. But to your beloved father bid farewell."

At these words Rames turned his head aside to hide his tears, but Mermes bade him not to grieve,
saying:

"Great is the mystery of our fates, my son. Some there be who tell us that we are but bubbles
born of the stream to be swallowed up by the stream, clouds born of the sky to be swallowed
up by the sky, the offspring of chance like the beasts and the birds, gnats that dance for
an hour in the sunlight and are gone. But I believe it not, who hold that the gods clothe us
with this robe of flesh for their own purpose, and that the spirit within us has been from
the beginning and eternally will be. Therefore I love not life and fear not death, knowing
that these are but doors leading to the immortal house that is prepared for us. The royal blood
you have came to you from your mother and myself, but that our lots should have been humble,
while yours, mayhap, will be splendid, does not move me to envy who perchance have been that
you may be. You go forth to fulfil your fortunes which I believe are great, I bide here to
fulfil mine which lead me to the tomb. I shall never see you in your power, if power comes
to you, nor will your triumphant footsteps stir my sleep.

"Yet, Rames, remember that though you tread on cloth of gold and the bowed necks of your enemies,
though love be your companion and diadems your crown, though flatteries float about you like
incense in a shrine till, at length, you deem yourself a god, those footsteps of yours still
lead to that same dark tomb and through it on to Judgment. Be great if you can, but be good
as well as great. Take no man's life because you have the strength and hate him; wrong no woman
because she is defenceless or can be bought. Remember that the beggar child playing in the
sand may have a destiny more high than yours when all the earthly count is reckoned. Remember
that you share the air you breathe with the cattle and the worm. Go your road rejoicing in
your beauty and your youth and the good gifts that are given you, but know, Rames, that at
the end of it I, who wait in the shadow of Osiris, I your father, shall ask an account thereof,
and that beyond me stand the gods of Justice to test the web that you have woven. Now, Rames,
my son, my blessing and the blessing of him who shaped us be with you, and farewell."

Then Mermes kissed him on the brow and, turning, left the room, nor did they ever meet again.

But Asti stayed awhile, and coming to him presently, looked Rames in the eyes, and said:

"Mourn not. Separations are no new thing, death is no new thing; all these sorrows have been
on the earth for millions of years, and for millions of years yet shall be. Live out your life,
rejoicing if the days be good, content if they be but ill, regretting nothing save your sins,
fearing nothing, expecting nothing, since all things are appointed and cannot be changed."

"I hear," he answered humbly, "and I will not forget. Whether I succeed or fail you shall not
be ashamed for me."

Now his mother turned to go also, but paused and said:

"I have a gift for you, Rames, from one whose name may not be spoken."

"Give it to me," he said eagerly, "I feared that it was all but a dream."

"Oh!" replied Asti scanning his face, "so there was a dream, was there? Did it fall upon you
last night when the daughter of Amen, my foster-child, instructed you in secret?"

"The gift," said Rames, stretching out his hand.

Then, smiling in her quiet fashion, his mother drew from the bosom of her robe some object
that was wrapped in linen and, touching her forehead with the royal seal that fastened it,
gave it to Rames. With trembling fingers he broke the seal and there within the linen lay a
ring which for some years, as Rames knew, Tua had worn upon the first finger of her right hand.
It was massive and of plain gold, and upon the bezel of it was cut the symbol of the sun, on
either side of which knelt a man and a woman crowned with the double crown of Egypt, and holding
in their right hands the looped Sign of Life which they stretched up towards the glory of the sun.

"Do you know who wore that ring in long past days?" asked Asti of Rames who pressed it to his lips.

He shook his head who remembered only that Tua had worn it.

"It was your forefather and mine, Rames, the last of the royal rulers of our line, who reigned
over Egypt and also over the Land of Kesh. A while ago the embalmers re-clothed his divine
body in the tomb, and the Princess, who was present there with your father and myself, drew
this ring off his dead hand and offered it to Mermes, who would not take it, seeing that it
is a royal signet. So she wore it herself, and now for her own reasons she sends it to you,
perhaps to give you authority in Kesh where that mighty seal is known."

"I thank the Queen," he murmured. "I shall wear it always."

"Then let it be on your breast till you have passed the frontier, lest some should ask questions
that you find it hard to answer. My son," she went on quickly, "you dare to love this queen
of ours."

"In truth I do, Mother. Did not you, who know everything, know that? Also it is your fault
who brought us up together."

"Nay, my son, the fault of the gods who have so decreed. But--does she love you?"

"You are always with her, Mother, ask her yourself, if you need to ask. At least, she has sent
me her own ring. Oh! Mother, Mother, guard her night and day, for if harm comes to her, then
I die. Mother, queens cannot give themselves where they will as other women can; it is policy
that thrusts their husbands on them. Keep her unwed, Mother. Though it should cost her her
throne, still I say let her not be cast into the arms of one she hates. Protect her in her
trial, if such should come; and if strength fails and the gods desert her, then hide her in
the web of the magic that you have, and preserve her undefiled, for so shall I bless your name
for ever."

"You fly at a rare bird, Rames, and there are many stronger hawks about besides that one you
slew; yes, royal eagles who may strike down the pair of you. Yet I will do my best, who have
long foreseen this hour, and who pray that before my eyes shut in death, they may yet behold
you seated on the throne of your forefathers, crowned with power and with such love and beauty
as have never yet been given to man. Now hide that ring upon your heart and your secret in
it, as I shall, lest you should return no more to Egypt. Moreover, follow your royal Star and
no other. Whatever counsel she may have given you, follow it also, stirring not to right or
left, for I say that in that maiden breast of hers there dwells the wisdom of the gods."

Then holding up her hands over his head as though in blessing, Asti, too, turned and left him.

So Rames went and was no more seen, and by degrees the talk as to the matter of his victory
over the Prince of Kesh, and as to his appointment by the whim of the maiden Queen to command
the splendid embassy of atonement which she had despatched to the old King, the dead man's
father, died away for lack of anything to feed on.

Tua kept her counsel well, nor was aught known of that midnight interview with the young Count
her general. Moreover, Napata was far away, so far that starting at the season when it did,
the embassy could scarce return till two years had gone by, if ever it did return. Also few
believed that whoever came back, Rames would be one of them, since it was said openly that
so soon as he was beyond the frontiers of Egypt, the soldiers had orders to kill him and take
on his body as a peace-offering.

Indeed, all praised the wit and wisdom of the Queen, who by this politic device, had rid herself
of a troublesome business with as little scandal as possible, and avoided staining her own
hands in the blood of a foster-brother. Had she ordered his death forthwith, they said, it
would have been supposed also that she had put him away because he was of a royal race, one
who, in the future, might prove a rival, or at least cause some rebellion.

Meanwhile greater questions filled the mouths of men. Would Pharaoh die and leave Neter-Tua,
the young and lovely, to hold his throne, and if so, what would happen? It was a thousand years
since a woman had reigned in Egypt, and none had reigned who were not wed. Therefore it seemed
necessary that a husband should be found for her as soon as might be.

But Pharaoh did not die. On the contrary, though very slowly, he recovered and was stronger
than he had been for years, for the fit that struck him down seemed to have cleared his blood.
For some three months he lay helpless as a child, amusing himself as a child does with little
things, and talking of children whom he had known in his youth, or when some of these chanced
to visit him as old men, asking them to play with him with tops or balls.

Then one day came a change, and rising from his bed he commanded the presence of his Councillors,
and when they came, inquired of them what had happened, and why he could remember nothing since
the feast.

They put him off with soft words, and soon he grew weary and dismissed them. But after they
had gone and he had eaten he sent for Mermes, the Captain of the Guard of Amen and his friend,
and questioned him.

"The last thing I remember," he said, "was seeing the drunken Prince of Kesh fighting with
your son, that handsome, fiery-eyed Count Rames whom some fool, or enemy, had set to wait upon
him at table. It was a dog's trick, Mermes, for after all your blood is purer and more ancient
than that of the present kings of Kesh. Well, the horror of the sight of my royal guest, the
suitor for my daughter's hand, fighting with an officer of my own guard at my own board, struck
me as a butcher strikes an ox, and after it all was blackness. What chanced, Mermes?"

"This, Pharaoh: My son killed Amathel in fair fight, then those black Nubian giants in their
fury attacked your guard, but led by Rames the Egyptians, though they were the lesser men,
overcame them and slew most of them. I am an old soldier, but never have I seen a finer fray----"

"A finer fray! A finer fray," gasped Pharaoh. "Why this will mean a war between Kesh and Egypt.
And then? Did the Council order Rames to be executed, as you must admit he deserved, although
you are his father?"

"Not so, O Pharaoh; moreover, I admit nothing, though had he played a coward's part before
all the lords of Egypt, gladly would I have slain him with my own hand."

"Ah!" said Pharaoh, "there speaks the soldier and the parent. Well, I understand. He was affronted,
was he not, by that bedizened black man? Were I in your place I should say as much. But--what
happened?"

"Your Majesty having become unconscious," explained Mermes, "her Majesty the Queen Neter-Tua,
Glorious in Ra, took command of affairs according to her Oath of Crowning. She has sent an
embassy of atonement of two thousand picked soldiers to the King of Kesh, bearing with them
the embalmed body of the divine Amathel and many royal gifts."

"That is good enough in its way," said Pharaoh. "But why two thousand men, whereof the cost
will be very great, when a score would have sufficed? It is an army, not an embassy, and when
my royal brother of Kesh sees it advancing, bearing with it the ill-omened gift of his only
son's body, he may take alarm."

Mermes respectfully agreed that he might do so.

"What general is in command of this embassy, as it pleases you to call it?"

"The Count Rames, my son, is in command, your Majesty."

Now weak as he was still, Pharaoh nearly leapt from his chair:

"Rames! That young cut-throat who killed the Prince! Rames who is the last of the old rightful
dynasty of Kesh! Rames, a mere captain, in command of two thousand of my veterans! Oh, I must
still be mad! Who gave him the command?"

"The Queen Neter-Tua, Star of Amen, she gave him the command, O Pharaoh. Immediately after
the fray in the hall she uttered her decree and caused it to be recorded in the usual fashion."

"Send for the Queen," said Pharaoh with a groan.

So Tua was summoned, and presently swept in gloriously arrayed, and on seeing her father sitting
up and well, ran to him and embraced him and for a long time refused to listen to his talk
of matters of State. At length, however, he made her sit by him still holding his hand, and
asked her why in the name of Amen she had sent that handsome young firebrand, Rames, in command
of the expedition to Kesh. Then she answered very sweetly that she would tell him. And tell
him she did, at such length that before she had finished, Pharaoh, whose strength as yet was
small, had fallen into a doze.

"Now, you understand," she said as he woke up with a start. "The responsibility was thrust
upon me, and I had to act as I thought best. To have slain this young Rames would have been
impossible, for all hearts were with him."

"But surely, Daughter, you might have got him out of the way."

"My father, that is what I have done. I have sent him to Napata, which is very much out of
the way--many months' journey, I am told."

"But what will happen, Tua? Either the King of Kesh will kill him and my two thousand soldiers,
or perhaps he will kill the King of Kesh as he killed his son, and seize the throne which his
own forefathers held for generations. Have you thought of that?"

"Yes, my father, I thought of it, and if this last should happen through no fault of ours,
would Egypt weep, think you?"

Now Pharaoh stared at Tua, and Tua looked back at Pharaoh and smiled.

"I perceive, Daughter," he said slowly, "that in you are the makings of a great queen, for
within the silken scabbard of a woman's folly I see the statesman's sword of bronze. Only run
not too fast lest you should fall upon that sword and it should pierce you."

Now Tua, who had heard such words before from Asti, smiled again but made no answer.

"You need a husband to hold you back," went on Pharaoh; "some great man whom you can love and
respect."

"Find me such a man, my father, and I will wed him gladly," answered Tua in a sweet voice.
"Only," she added, "I know not where he may be sought now that the divine Amathel is dead at
the hand of the Count Rames, our general and ambassador to Kesh."

So when he grew stronger Pharaoh renewed his search for a husband meet to marry the Queen of
Egypt. Now, as before, suitors were not lacking, indeed, his ambassadors and councillors sent
in their names by twos and threes, but always when they were submitted to her, Tua found something
against everyone of them, till at last it was said that she must be destined for a god since
no mere mortal would serve her turn. But when this was reported to her, Tua only answered with
a smile that she was destined to that royal lover of whom Amen had spoken to her mother in
a dream; not to a god, but to the Chosen of the god, and that when she saw him, she felt sure
she would know him at once and love him much.

After some months had gone by Pharaoh, quite weary of this play, asked the advice of his Council.
They suggested to him that he should journey through the great cities of Egypt, both because
the change might completely re-establish his divine health, and in the hope that on her travels
the Queen Neter-Tua would meet someone of royal blood with whom she could fall in love. For
by now it was evident to all of them that unless she did fall in love, she would not marry.

So that very night Pharaoh asked his daughter if she would undertake such a journey.

She answered that nothing would please her better, as she wearied of Thebes, and desired to
see the other great cities of the land, to make herself known to those who dwell in them, and
in each to be proclaimed as its future ruler. Also she wished to look upon the ocean whereof
she had heard that it was so big that all the waters of the Nile flowing into it day and night
made no difference to its volume.

Thus then began that pilgrimage which afterwards Tua recorded in the history of her reign on
the walls of the wonderful temples that she built. Her own wish was that they should sail south
to the frontiers of Egypt, since there she hoped that she might hear some tidings of Rames
and his expedition, whereof latterly no certain word had come. This project, however, was over-ruled
because in the south there were no great towns, also the inhabitants of the bordering desert
were turbulent, and might choose that moment to attack.

So in the end they went down and not up the Nile, tarrying for a while at every great city,
and especially at Atbu, the holy place where the head of Osiris is buried, and tens of thousands
of the great men of Egypt have their tombs. Here Tua was crowned afresh in the very shrine
of Osiris amidst the rejoicings of the people.

Then they sailed away to On, the City of the Sun, and thence to make offerings at the Great
Pyramids which were built by some of the early kings who had ruled Egypt, to serve them as
their tombs.

Neter-Tua entered the Pyramids to look upon the bodies of these Pharaohs who had been dead
for thousands of years, and whose deeds were all forgotten, though her father would not accompany
her there because the ways were so steep that he did not dare to tread them. Afterwards, with
Asti and a small guard of the Arab chiefs of the desert, she mounted a dromedary and rode round
them in the moonlight, hoping that she would meet the ghosts of those kings, and that they
would talk with her as the ghost of her mother had done. But she saw no ghosts, nor would Asti
try to summon them from their sleep, although Tua prayed her to do so.

"Leave them alone," said Asti, as they paused in the shadow of the greatest of the pyramids
and stared at its shining face engraved from base to summit with many a mystic writing.

"Leave them alone lest they should be angry as Amen was, and tell your Majesty things which
you do not wish to hear. Contemplate their mighty works, such as no monarch can build to-day,
and suffer them to rest therein undisturbed by weaker folk."

"Do you call these mighty works?" asked Tua contemptuously, for she was angry because Asti
would not try to raise the dead. "What are they after all, but so many stones put together
by the labour of men to satisfy their own vanity? And of those who built them what story remains?
There is none at all save some vain legends. Now if I live I will rear a greater monument,
for history shall tell of me till time be dead."

"Perhaps, Neter-Tua, if you live and the gods will it, though for my part I think that these
old stones will survive the story of most deeds."

On the morrow of this visit to the Pyramids Pharaoh and the Queen his daughter made their state
entry into the great white-walled city of Memphis, where they were royally received by Pharaoh's
brother, the Prince Abi, who was still the ruler of all this town and district. As it chanced
these two had not met since Abi, many years before, came to Thebes, asking a share in the government
of Egypt and to be nominated as successor to the throne.

Like every other lord and prince, he had been invited to be present at the great ceremony of
the Crowning of Neter-Tua, but at the last moment sent his excuses, saying that he was ill,
which seemed to be true. At any rate, the spies reported that he was confined to his bed, though
whether sickness or his own will took him thither at this moment, there was nothing to show.
At the time Pharaoh and his Council wondered a little that he had made no proposal for the
marriage of one of his sons, of whom he had four, to their royal cousin, Neter-Tua, but decided
that he had not done so because he was sure that it would not be accepted. For the rest, during
all this period Abi had kept quiet in his own Government, which he ruled well and strongly,
remitting his taxes to Thebes at the proper time with a ceremonial letter of homage, and even
increasing the amount of them.

So it came about that Pharaoh, who by nature was kindly and unsuspicious, had long ago put
away all mistrust of his brother, whose ambitions, he was sure, had come to an end with the
birth of an heiress to the throne.

Yet, when escorted only by five hundred of his guard, for this was a peaceful visit, Pharaoh
rode into the mighty city and saw how impregnable were its walls and how strong its gates;
saw also that the streets were lined with thousands of well-armed troops, doubts which he dismissed
as unworthy, did creep into his heart. But if he said nothing of them, Tua, who rode in the
chariot with him, was not so silent.

"My father," she said in a low voice while the crowds shouted their welcome, for they were
alone in the chariot, the horses of which were led, "this uncle of mine keeps a great state
in Memphis."

"Yes, Daughter, why should he not? He is its governor."

"A stranger who did not know the truth might think he was its king, my father, and to be plain,
if I were Pharaoh, and had chosen to enter here, it would have been with a larger force."

"We can go away when we like, Tua," said Pharaoh uneasily.

"You mean, my father, that we can go away when it pleases the Prince your brother to open those
great bronze gates that I heard clash behind us--then and not before."

At this moment their talk came to an end, for the chariot was stayed at the steps of the great
hall where Abi waited to receive his royal guests. He stood at the head of the steps, a huge,
coarse, vigorous man of about sixty years of age, on whose fat, swarthy face there was still,
oddly enough, some resemblance to the delicate, refined-featured Pharaoh.

Tua summed him up in a single glance, and instantly hated him even more than she had hated
Amathel, Prince of Kesh. Also she who had not feared the empty-headed, drunken Amathel, was
penetrated with a strange terror of this man whom she felt to be strong and intelligent, and
whose great, greedy eyes rested on her beauty as though they could not tear themselves away.

Now they were ascending the steps, and now Prince Abi was welcoming them to his "humble house,"
giving them their throne names, and saying how rejoiced he was to see them, his sovereigns,
within the walls of Memphis, while all the time he stared at Tua.

Pharaoh, who was tired, made no reply, but the young Queen, staring back at him, answered:

"We thank you for your greeting, but then, my uncle Abi, why did you not meet us outside the
gates of Memphis where we expected to find its governor waiting to deliver up the keys of Pharaoh's
city to the officers of Pharaoh?"

Now Abi, who had thought to see some shrinking child clothed in the emblems of a queen, looked
astonished at this tall and royal maiden who had so sharp a tongue, and found no words to answer
her. So she swept past him and commanded to be shown where she should lodge in Memphis.

They led her to its greatest palace that had been prepared for Pharaoh and herself, a place
surrounded by palm groves in the midst of the city, but having studied it with her quick eyes,
she said that it did not please her. So search was made elsewhere, and in the end she chose
another smaller palace that once had been a temple of Sekhet, the tiger-headed goddess of vengeance
and of chastity, whereof the pylon towers fronted on the Nile which at its flood washed against
them. Indeed, they were now part of the wall of Memphis, for the great unused gateway between
them had been built up with huge blocks of stone.

Surrounding this palace and outside its courts, lay the old gardens of the temple where the
priests of Sekhet used to wander, enclosed within a lofty limestone wall. Here, saying that
the air from the river would be more healthy for him, Tua persuaded Pharaoh to establish himself
and his Court, and to encamp the guards under the command of his friend Mermes, in the outer
colonnades and gardens.

When it was pointed out to the Queen that, owing to the lack of dwelling-rooms, none which
were fitting were left for her to occupy, she replied that this mattered nothing, since in
the old pylon tower were two small chambers hollowed in the thickness of its walls, which were
very pleasing to her, because of the prospect of the Nile and the wide flat lands and the distant
Pyramids commanded from the lofty roof and window-places. So these chambers, in which none
had dwelt for generations, were hastily cleaned out and furnished, and in them Tua and Asti
her foster-mother, took up their abode.

CHAPTER VIII

THE MAGIC IMAGE

That night Pharaoh and Tua rested in privacy with those members of the Court whom they had
brought with them, but on the morrow began a round of festivals such as history scarcely told
of in Egypt. Indeed, the feast with which it opened was more splendid than any Tua had seen
at Thebes even at the time of her crowning, or on that day of blood and happiness when Amathel
and his Nubian guards were slain and she and Rames declared their love. At this feast Pharaoh
and the young Queen sat in chairs of gold, while the Prince Abi was placed on her right hand,
and not on that of Pharaoh as he should have been as host and subject.

"I am too much honoured," said Tua, looking at him sideways. "Why do you not sit by Pharaoh,
my uncle?"

"Who am I that I should take the seat of honour when my sovereigns come to visit me?" answered
Abi, bowing his great head. "Let it be reserved for the high-priest of Osiris, that Holy One
whom, after Ptah, we worship here above all other deities, for he is clothed with the majesty
of the god of death."

"Of death," said Tua. "Is that why you put him by my father?"

"Indeed not," replied Abi, spreading out his hands, "though if a choice must be made, I would
rather that he sat near one who is old and must soon be called the 'ever-living,' than at the
side of the loveliest queen that Egypt has ever seen, to whom it is said that Amen himself
has sworn a long life," and again he bowed.

"You mean that you think Pharaoh will soon die. Nay, deny it not, Prince Abi, I can read your
thoughts, and they are ill-omened," said Tua sharply and, turning her head away, began to watch
those about her.

Soon she noticed that behind Abi amongst his other officers stood a tall, grizzled man clad
in the robes and cap of an astrologer, who appeared to be studying everything, and especially
Pharaoh and herself, for whenever she looked round it was to find his quick, black eyes fixed
upon her.

"Who is that man?" she whispered presently to Asti, who waited on her.

"The famous astrologer, Kaku, Queen. I have seen him before when he visited Thebes with the
Prince before your birth. I will tell you of him afterwards. Watch him well."

So Tua watched and discovered several things, among them that Kaku observed everything that
she and Pharaoh did, what they ate, to whom they spoke, and any words which fell from their
lips, such as those that she had uttered about the god Osiris. All of these he noted down from
time to time on his waxen tablets, doubtless that he might make use of them afterwards in his
interpretation of the omens of the future.

Now, among the ladies of the Court who fanned Pharaoh and waited on him was that dancing girl
of Abi's who many years before had betrayed him at Thebes, Merytra, Lady of the Footstool,
now a woman of middle age, but still beautiful, of whom, although Tua disliked her, Pharaoh
was fond because she was clever and witty of speech and amused him. For this reason, in spite
of her history, he had advanced her to wealth and honour, and kept her about his person as
a companion of his lighter hours. Something in this woman's manner attracted Tua's attention,
for continually she looked at the astrologer, Kaku, who suddenly awoke to her presence and
smiled as though he recognised an old friend. Then, when it was the turn of another to take
her place behind Pharaoh, Merytra drew alongside of Kaku, and under shelter of her broad fan,
spoke to him quickly, as though she were making some arrangement with him, and he nodded in
assent, after which they separated again.

The feast wore on its weary course till, at length, the doors opened and slaves appeared bearing
the mummy of a dead man, which they set upon its feet in the centre of the hall, whereon a
toast-master cried:

"Drink and be merry, all ye great ones of the earth, who know not how soon ye shall come to
this last lowly state."

Now this bringing in of the mummy was a very ancient rite, but one that had fallen into general
disuse, so that as it chanced Tua, who had never seen it practised before, looked on it with
curiosity not unmingled with disgust.

"Why is a dead king dragged from his sepulchre back into the world of life, my Uncle?" she
asked, pointing to the royal emblems with which the corpse was clothed.

"It is no king, your Majesty," answered Abi, "but only the bones of some humble person, or
perhaps a block of wood that wears the uræus and carries the sceptre in honour of Pharaoh,
our chief guest."

Now Tua frowned, and Pharaoh, who had overheard the talk, said, smiling sadly:

"A somewhat poor compliment, my brother, to one who, like myself, is old and sickly and not
far from his eternal habitation. Yet why should I grumble at it who need no such reminder of
that which awaits me and all of us?" and he leaned back in his chair and sighed, while Tua
looked at him anxiously.

Then Abi ordered the mummy to be removed, declaring, with many apologies, that it had been
brought there only because such was the ancient custom of Memphis, which, unlike Thebes, did
not change its fashions. He added that this same body or figure, for he knew not which it was,
having never troubled to inquire, had been looked upon by at least thirty Pharaohs, all as
dead as it to-day, since it was the same that was used at the royal feasts before, long ago,
the seat of government was moved to Thebes.

"If so," broke in Tua, who was angry, "it is time that it should be buried, if flesh and bone,
or burned if wood. But Pharaoh is wearied. Have we your leave to depart, my Uncle?"

Without answering, Abi rose, as she thought to dismiss the company. But it was not so, for
he raised a great, golden cup of wine and said:

"Before we part, my guests, let Memphis drink a welcome to the mighty Lord of the Two Lands
who, for the first time in his long and glorious reign, honours it with his presence here to-day.
As he said to me but now, my royal brother is weak and aged with sickness, nor can we hope
that once his visit is ended, he will return again to the White-walled City. But as it chances
the gods have given him a boon which they denied for long, the lovely daughter who shares his
throne, and who, as we believe and pray, will reign after him when it pleases him to ascend
into the kingdom of Osiris. Yet, my friends, it is evil that the safe and lawful government
of Egypt should hang on one frail life. Therefore this is the toast to which I drink--that
the Queen Neter-Tua, Morning Star of Amen, Hathor Strong in Beauty, who has rejected so many
suitors, may before she departs from among us, find one to her liking, some husband of royal
blood, skilled in the art of rule, whose strength and knowledge may serve to support her woman's
weakness and inexperience in that sad hour when she finds herself alone."

Now the audience, who well understood the inner meaning and objects of this speech, rose and
cheered furiously, as they had been schooled to do, emptying their cups to Pharaoh and to Tua
and shouting:

"We know the man. Take him, glorious Queen, take him, Daughter of Amen, and reign for ever."

"What do they mean?" muttered Pharaoh, "I do not understand. Thank them, my daughter, my voice
is weak, and let us begone."

So Tua rose when at length there was silence and, looking round her with flashing eyes, said
in her clear voice that reached the furthest recesses of the hall:

"The Pharaoh, my father, and I, the Queen of the Upper and the Lower Lands, return thanks to
you, our people of this city, for your loyal greetings. But as for the words that the Prince
Abi has spoken, we understand them not. My prayer is that the Pharaoh may still reign in glory
for many years, but if he departs and I remain, learn, O people, that you have naught to fear
from the weakness and inexperience of your Queen. Learn also that she seeks no husband, nor
when she seeks will she ever find one within the walls of Memphis. Rest you well, O people
and you, my Uncle Abi, as now with your good leave we will do also."

Then, turning, she took her father by the hand and went without more words, leaving Abi staring
at his guests while his guests stared back at him.

When Tua had reached the pylon tower, where she lodged, and her ladies had unrobed her and
gone, she called Asti to her from the adjoining chamber and said:

"You are wise, my nurse, tell me, what did Abi mean?"

"If your Majesty cannot guess, then you are duller than I thought," answered Asti in her quick,
dry fashion, adding; "however, I will try to translate. The Prince Abi, your noble uncle, means
that he has trapped you here, and that you shall not leave these walls save as his wife."

Now fury took hold of Tua.

"How dare he speak such words?" she gasped, springing to her feet. "I, the wife of that old
river-hog, my father's brother who might be my grandfather, that hideous, ancient lump of wickedness
who boasts that he has a hundred sons and daughters; I, the Queen of Egypt, whose birth was
decreed by Amen, I--how dare you?" and she ceased, choking in her wrath.

"The question is--how he dares, Queen. Still, that is his plot which he will carry through
if he is able. I suspected it from the first, and that is why I always opposed this visit to
Memphis, but you will remember that you bade me be silent, saying that you had determined to
see the most ancient city in Egypt."

"You should not have been silent. You should have said what was in your mind, even if I ordered
you from my presence. Neither Abi nor any of his sons proposed for my hand when the others
did, therefore I suspected nothing----"

"After the fashion of women who have already given their hearts, Queen, and forget that they
have other things to give--a kingdom, for instance. The snake does not roar like the lion,
yet it is more to be feared."

"Once I am out of this place it is the snake that shall have cause to fear, Asti, for I will
break its back and throw it writhing to the kites. Nurse, we must leave Memphis."

"That is not easy, Queen, since some ceremony is planned for each of the next eight days. If
Pharaoh were to go away without attending them, he would anger all the people of the North
which he has not visited since he was crowned."

"Then let them be angered; Pharaoh can do as he wills."

"Yes, Queen, at least, that is the saying. But do you think that Pharaoh wishes to bring about
a civil war and risk his crown and yours? Listen: Abi is very strong, and under his command
he has a greater army than Pharaoh can muster in these times of peace, for in addition to his
trained troops, all the thousands of the Bedouin tribes of the desert look on him as lord,
and at his word will fall on the wealth of Egypt like famished vultures on a fatted ox. Moreover,
here you have but a guard of five hundred men, whereas Abi's regiments, summoned to do you
honour, and his ships of war block the river and the southern road. How then will you leave
Memphis without his good leave; how will you even send messengers to summon aid which could
not reach you under fifty days?"

Now when she saw the greatness of the danger, Tua grew quite calm and answered:

"You have done wrong, Asti; if you foresaw all these things of which I never thought, you should
have warned Pharaoh and his Council."

"Queen, I did warn them, and Mermes warned them also, but they would not listen, saying that
they were but the idle dreams of one who strives to peep into the future and sees false pictures
there. More, Pharaoh sent for me himself, and whilst thanking me and Mermes my husband, told
me that he had inquired into the matter and found no cause to distrust Abi or those under his
command. Moreover, he forbade me to speak to your Majesty about it, lest, being but young and
a woman, you might be frightened and your pleasure spoilt."

"Who was his counsellor?" asked Tua.

"A strange one, I think, Queen. You know his waiting-woman, Merytra, she of whom he is so fond,
and who stood behind him with a fan this night."

"Aye, I know her," replied Tua, with emphasis. "She was ever whispering with that tall astrologer
at the feast. But does Pharaoh take counsel with waiting-ladies of his private household?"

"With this waiting-lady, it seems, Queen. Perhaps you have not heard all her story, in the
year before your birth Merytra came up the Nile with Abi. She was then quite young and very
pretty; one of Abi's women. It seems that the Prince struck her for some fault, and being clever
she determined to be revenged upon him. Soon she got her chance, for she heard Abi disclose
to the astrologer Kaku, that same man whom you saw to-night talking with her, a plan that he
had made to murder Pharaoh and declare himself king, from which Kaku dissuaded him. Having
this secret and being bold, she fled at once from the ship of Abi, and that night told Pharaoh
everything. But he forgave Abi, and sent him home again with honour who should have slain him
for his treason. Only Merytra remained in the Court, and from that time forward Pharaoh, who
trusted her and was caught by her wit and beauty, made it a habit to send for her when he wished
to have news of Memphis where she was born, because she seemed always to know even the most
secret things that were passing in that city. Moreover, often her information proved true."

"That is not to be wondered at, Nurse, seeing that doubtless it came from this Kaku, Abi's
astrologer and magician."

"No, Queen, it is not to be wondered at, especially as she paid back secret for secret. Well,
I believe that after I had warned Pharaoh of what I knew, never mind how, he sent for Merytra,
who laughed the tale to scorn, and told him that Abi his brother had long ago abandoned all
ambitions, being well content with his great place and power which one of his sons would inherit
after him. She told him also that the troops were but assembled to do the greater honour to
your Majesties who had no more loyal or loving subject than the Prince Abi, whom for her part
she hated with good cause, as she loved Pharaoh and his House--with good cause. If there were
any danger, she asked would she dare to put herself within the reach of Abi, the man that she
had once betrayed because her heart was pure and true, and she was faithful to her king. So
Pharaoh believed her, and I obeyed the orders of Pharaoh, knowing that if I did not do so he
would grow angry and perhaps separate me from you, my beloved Queen and fosterling, which,
now that Rames has gone, would, I think, have meant my death. Yet I fear that I have erred."

"Yes, I fear also that you have erred, Asti, but everything is forgiven to those who err through
love," answered Tua kindly and kissing her. "Oh, my father, Pharaoh! What god fashioned you
so weak that an evil spirit in a woman's shape can play the rudder to your policy! Leave me
now, Asti, for I must sleep and call on Amen to aid his daughter. The snare is strong and cunning,
but, perchance, in my dreams he will show me how it may be broke."

That night when the feast was ended Merytra, Pharaoh's favoured waiting-maid, did not return
with the rest of the royal retinue to the temple where he lodged. As they went from the hall
in state she whispered a few words into the ear of the chief Butler of the Household who, knowing
that she had the royal pass to come in and out as she would, answered that the gate should
be opened to her, and let her go.

So covering her head with a dark cloak Merytra slipped behind a certain statue in the ante-hall
and waited till presently a tall figure, also wrapped in a dark cloak, appeared and beckoned
to her. She followed it down sundry passages and up a narrow stair that seemed almost endless,
until, at length, the figure unlocked a massive door, and when they had passed it, locked it
again behind them.

Now Merytra found herself in a very richly furnished room lit by hanging-lamps, that evidently
was the abode of one who watched the stars and practised magic, for all about were strange-looking
brazen instruments and rolls of papyrus covered with mysterious signs, and suspended above
the table a splendid divining ball of crystal. Merytra sank into a chair, throwing off her
dark cloak.

"Of a truth, friend Kaku," she said, so soon as she had got her breath, "you dwell very near
the gods."

"Yes, dear Merytra," he answered with a dry chuckle, "I keep a kind of half-way house to heaven.
Perched here in my solitude I see and make note of what goes on above," and he pointed to the
skies, "and retail the information, or as much of it as I think fit, to the groundlings below."

"At a price, I suppose, Kaku."

"Most certainly at a price, and I may add, a good price. No one thinks much of the physician
who charges low fees. Well, you have managed to get here, and after all these years I am glad
to see you again, looking almost as young and pretty as ever. Tell me your secret of eternal
youth, dear Merytra."

Merytra, who was vain, smiled at this artful flattery, although, in truth, it was well deserved,
for at an age when many Egyptians are old, she remained fresh and fair.

"An excellent conscience," she answered, "a good appetite and the virtuous, quiet life, which
is the lot of the ladies of Pharaoh's Court--there you have the secret, Kaku. I fear that you
keep too late hours, and that is why you grow white and withered like a mummy--not but that
you look handsome enough in those long robes of yours," she added to gild the pill.

"It is my labours," he replied, making a wry face, for he too was vain. "My labours for the
good of others, also indigestion and the draughts in this accursed tower where I sit staring
at the stars, which give me rheumatism. I have got both of them now, and must take some medicine,"
and filling two goblets from a flask, he handed her one of them, saying, "drink it, you don't
get wine like that in Thebes."

"It is very good," said Merytra when she had drunk, "but heavy. If I took much of that I think
I should have 'rheumatism,' too. Now tell me, old friend, am I safe, in this place? No, not
from Pharaoh, he trusts me and lets me go where I will upon his business--but from his royal
brother. He used to have a long memory, and from the look of him I do not think that his temper
has improved. You may remember a certain slap in the face and how I paid him back for it."

"He never knew it was you, Merytra. Being a mass of self-conceit, he thought that you ran away
because he had banished you from his royal presence and presented you--to me."

"Oh, he thought that, did he! What a vain fool!"

"It was a very dirty trick you played me, Merytra," went on Kaku with indignation, for the
rich wine coursing through his blood revived the sting of his loss. "You know how fond I always
was of you, and indeed am still," he added, gazing at her admiringly.

"I felt that I was not worthy of so learned and distinguished a man," she replied, looking
at him with her dark eyes. "I should only have hampered your life, dear Kaku, so I went into
the household of that poor creature, Pharaoh, instead--Pharaoh's Nunnery we call it. But you
will not explain the facts to Abi, will you?"

"No, I think not, Merytra, if we continue to get on as well as we do at present. But now you
are rested, so let us come to business, for otherwise you will have to stop here all night
and Pharaoh would be angry."

"Oh, to Set with Pharaoh! Though it is true that he is a good paymaster, and knows the value
of a clever woman. Now, what is this business?"

The old astrologer's face grew hard and cunning. Going to the door he made sure that it was
locked and drew a curtain over it. Then he took a stool and sat himself down in front of Merytra,
in such a position that the light fell on her face while his own remained in shadow.

"A big business, Merytra, and by the gods I do not know that I should trust you with it. You
tricked me once, you have tricked Pharaoh for years; how do I know that you will not play the
same game once more and earn me an order to cut my own throat, and so lose life and soul together?"

"If you think that, Kaku, perhaps you will unlock the door and give me an escort home, for
we are only wasting time."

"I don't know what to think, for you are as cunning as you are beautiful. Listen, woman," he
continued in a savage whisper, and clasping her by the wrist. "If you are false, I tell you
that you shall die horribly, for if the knife and poison fail, I am no charlatan, I have arts.
I can make you turn loathsome to the sight and waste away, I can haunt you at nights so that
you may never sleep a wink, save in full sunshine, and I will do it all and more. If I die,
Merytra, we go together. Now will you swear to be true, will you swear it by the oath of oaths?"

The spy looked about her. She knew Kaku's power which was famous throughout Egypt, and that
it was said to be of the most evil sort, and she feared him.

"It seems that this is a dangerous affair," she replied uneasily, "and I think that I can guess
your aim. Now if I help you, Kaku, what am I to get?"

"Me," he answered.

"I am flattered, but what else?"

"After Pharaoh the greatest place and the most power in Egypt, as the wife of Pharaoh's Vizier."

"The wife? Doubtless from what I have heard of you, Kaku, there would be other wives to share
these honours."

"No other wife--upon the oath, none, Merytra."

She thought a moment, looking at the wizened but powerful-faced old magician, then answered:

"I will take the oath and keep my share of it. See that you keep yours, Kaku, or it will be
the worse for you, for women have their own evil power."

"I know it, Merytra, and from the beginning the wise have held that the spirit dwells, not
in the heart or brain or liver, but in the female tongue. Now stand up."

She obeyed, and from some hidden place in the wall Kaku produced a book, or rather a roll of
magical writings, that was encased in iron, the metal of the evil god, Typhon.

"There is no other such book as this," he said, "for it was written by the greatest of wizards
who lived before Mena, when the god-kings ruled in Egypt, and I, myself, took it from among
his bones, a terrible task for his Ka rose up in the grave and threatened me. He who can read
in that book, as I can, has much strength, and let him beware who breaks an oath taken on that
book. Now press it to your heart, Merytra, and swear after me."

Then he repeated a very terrible oath, for should it be violated it consigned the swearer to
shame, sickness and misfortune in this world, and to everlasting torments in the next at the
claws and fangs of beast-headed demons who dwell in the darkness beyond the sun, appointing,
by name, those beings who should work the torments, and summoning them as witnesses to the bond.

Merytra listened, then said,

"You have left out your part of the oath, Friend, namely, that you promise that I shall be
the only wife of Pharaoh's Vizier and hold equal power with him."

"I forgot," said Kaku, and added the words.

Then they both swore, touching their brows with the book, and as she looked up again, Merytra
saw a strange, flame-like light pulse in the crystal globe that hung above her head, which
became presently infiltrated with crimson flowing through it as blood might flow from a wound,
till it glowed dull red, out of which redness a great eye watched her. Then the eye vanished
and the blood vanished, and in place of them Queen Neter-Tua sat in glory on her throne, while
the nations worshipped her, and by her side sat a man in royal robes whose face was hidden
in a cloud.

"What do you see?" asked Kaku, following her gaze to the crystal.

She told him, and he pondered a while, then answered doubtfully:

"I think it is a good omen; the royal consort sits beside her. Only why was his face hidden?"

"I am sure I do not know," answered Merytra. "I think that strong, red wine of yours was doctored
and has got into my head. But, come, we have sworn this oath, which I dare say will work in
more ways than we guess, for such accursed swords have two edges to them. Now out with the
plot, and throw a cloth over that crystal for I want to see no more pictures."

"It seems a pity since you have such a gift of vision," replied Kaku in the same dubious voice.
Yet he obeyed, tying up the shining ball in a piece of mummy wrapping which he used in his spells.

"Now," he said, "I will be brief. My fat master, Abi, means to be Pharaoh of Egypt, and it
seems that the best way to do so is by climbing into his niece's throne, where most men would
like to sit."

"You mean by marrying her, Kaku."

"Of course. What else? He who marries the Queen, rules in right of the Queen."

"Indeed. Do you know anything of Neter-Tua?"

"As much as any other man knows; but what do you mean?"

"I mean that I shall be sorry for the husband who marries her against her will, however beautiful
and high-placed she may be. I tell you that woman is a flame. She has more strength in her
than all the magicians in Egypt, yourself among them. They say she is a daughter of Amen, and
I believe it. I believe that the god dwells in her, and woe be to him whom she may chance to
hate, if he comes to her as a husband."

"That is Abi's business, is it not? Our business, Merytra, is to get him there. Now we may
take it this will not be with her consent."

"Certainly not, Kaku," she answered. "The gossip goes that she is in love with young Count
Rames, who fought and killed the Prince of Kesh before her eyes, and now has gone to make amends
to the king his father at the head of an army."

"That may be true, Merytra. Why not? He is her foster-brother and of royal blood, bold, too,
and handsome, they say. Well, queens have no business to be in love. That is the privilege
of humbler folk like you and me, Merytra. Say, is she suspicious--about Prince Abi, I mean?"

"I do not know, but Asti, her nurse and favourite lady, the wife of Mermes and mother of Rames,
is suspicious enough. She is a greater magician than you are, Kaku, and if she could have had
her way Pharaoh would never have set foot in Memphis. But I got your letter and over-persuaded
him, the poor fool. You see he thinks me faithful to his House, and that is why I am allowed
to be here to-night, to collect information."

"Ah! Well, what Asti knows the Queen will know, and she is stronger than Pharaoh, and notwithstanding
all Abi's ships and soldiers, may break away from Memphis and make war upon him. So it comes
to this--Pharaoh must stay here, for his daughter will not desert him."

"How will you make him stay here, Kaku? Not by----" and she glanced towards the shrouded crystal.

"Nay, no blood if it can be helped. He must not even seem to be a prisoner, it is too dangerous.
But there are other ways."

"What ways? Poison?"

"Too dangerous again. Now, if he fell sick, and he has been sick before, and could not stir,
it would give us time to bring about the marriage, would it not? Oh! I know that he is well
at present--for him, but look here, Merytra, I have something to show you."

Then going to a chest Kaku took from it a plain box of cedar wood which was shaped like a mummy
case, and, lifting off its lid, revealed within it a waxen figure of the length of a hand.
This figure was beautifully fashioned to the living likeness of Pharaoh, and crowned with the
double crown of Egypt.

"What is it?" asked Merytra, shrinking back. "An ushapti to be placed in his tomb?"

"No, woman, a magic Ka fashioned with many a spell out of yonder ancient roll, that can bring
him to the tomb if it be rightly used, as you shall use it."

"I!" she exclaimed, starting. "How?"

"Thus: You, as one of Pharaoh's favourite ladies, have charge of the chamber where he sleeps.
Now you must make shift to enter there alone and lay this figure in his bed, that the breath
of Pharaoh may enter into it. Then take it from the bed and say these words, 'Figure, figure,
I command thee by the power within thee and in the name of the Lord if Ill, that as thy limbs
waste, so shall the limbs of him in whose likeness thou art fashioned waste also.' Having spoken
thus, hold the legs of the image over the flame of a lamp until it be half melted, and convey
the rest of it away to your own sleeping-place and hide it there. So it shall come about that
during that night the nerves and muscles in the legs of Pharaoh will wither and grow useless
to him, and he be paralysed and unable to stir. Afterwards, if it be needful, I will tell you
more."

Now, bold though she was, Merytra grew afraid.

"I cannot do it," she said, "it is black sorcery against one who is a god, and will bring my
soul to hell. Find some other instrument, or place the waxen imp in the bed of Pharaoh yourself,
Kaku."

The face of the magician grew fierce and cruel.

"Come with me, Merytra," he said, and taking her by the wrist he led her to the open window-place
whence he observed the stars.

So giddy was the height at the top of this lofty tower that the houses beneath looked small
and far away, and the sky quite near.

"Behold Memphis and the Nile, and the wide lands of Egypt gleaming in the moonlight, and the
Pyramids of the ancient kings. You wish to rule over all these, like myself--do you not, Merytra?--and
if you obey me you shall do so."

"And if I do not obey?"

"Then I will throw my spell upon you, and your senses shall leave you and you shall fall headlong
to that white line, which is a street, and before to-morrow morning the dogs will have picked
your broken bones, so that none can know you, for you have heard too much to go hence alive
unless it be to do my bidding. Oh, no! Think not to say 'I will' and afterwards deceive me,
for that image which you take with you is my servant, and will keep watch on you and make report
to me and to the god, its master. Now choose."

"I will obey," said Merytra faintly, and as she spoke she thought that she heard a laugh in
the air outside the window.

"Good. Now hide the box beneath your cloak and drop it not, for if so that which is within
will call aloud after you, and they will kill you for a sorceress. Unless my word come to you,
lay the figure in Pharaoh's bed to-morrow evening, and at the hour of moonrise hold its limbs
in the flame in your own chamber, and hide it away, and afterwards bring it back to me that
I may enchant it afresh, if there be any need. Now come, and I will guard you to the gates
of the old temple of Sekhet, where Pharaoh dwells."

CHAPTER IX

THE DOOM OF PHARAOH

On the morrow when the lady Asti came to dress the Queen for that day's ceremony, she asked
her if Amen had given her the wisdom that she sought.

"Not so," answered the young Queen, "all he gave me was very bad dreams, and in every one of
them was mixed up that waiting woman of my father, Merytra, of whom you spoke to me. If I believed
in omens I should say that she was about to bring some evil upon our House."

"It may well be so, Queen," answered Asti, "and in that case I think that she is at the work.
At any rate, watching from the little window of my room, by the light of the moon I saw her
return across the temple court at midnight. Moreover, it seemed to me that she was carrying
something beneath her robe."

"Whence did she return?"

"From the city, I suppose. She has Pharaoh's pass, and can go in and out when she will. I have
caused Mermes to question the officer of the guard, and he says that she came to the gate accompanied
by a tall man wrapped in a dark cloak, who spoke with her earnestly, and left her. From this
description I think it must have been the astrologer, Kaku, with whom she was talking at the
feast."

"That is bad news, Nurse. What else have you to tell?"

"Only this, Queen. The gates are guarded more closely even than we thought. I tried to send
out a man to Thebes this morning with a message on my own account--never mind what it was--and
the sentries turned him back."

"By the gods!" exclaimed Tua, "before I have reigned a year every gate in Memphis shall be
melted down for cooking vessels, and I will set their captains to work in the desert mines.
Nay, such threats are foolishness, I'll not threaten, I'll strike when the time comes, but
that is not yet. Can I speak with the Pharaoh?"

"No, Queen. He is up already giving audience to the nobles of Memphis, and trying cases from
the Lower Land with his Counsellors; until it is time to start for this ceremony of the laying
of the foundation-stone of the temple, whither you accompany him in state. Also it is as well--by
to-night we may learn more. Come, let me set the crown upon your head that these dogs of Memphis
may know their mistress."

The ceremony proved very wearisome. First there was the long chariot ride through the crowded,
shouting streets, Pharaoh and Abi going in the first chariot, and Tua, attended by Abi's eldest
daughter, a round-eyed lady much older than herself, in the second. Next came the office of
the priests of Amen, over which Neter-Tua as daughter of Amen and high-priestess, must preside,
to dedicate the temple to the glory of the god. Then the foundation deposit of little vases
of offerings and models of workmen's tools, and a ring drawn from Pharaoh's hand engraved with
his royal name, were blessed and set by the masons in hollows prepared for them, and the two
great corner-stones let down, hiding them for ever, and declared respectively by Pharaoh and
by Neter-Tua, Morning Star of Amen, Joint Sovereign of Egypt, to be well and truly laid.

Afterwards architects, those who "drew the line," exhibited plans of the temple, and received
gifts from Pharaoh, and when these things were done came the mid-day feast and speeches.

At length all was over, and the great procession returned by another route to the temple of
Sekhet, where Pharaoh lodged, a very tedious journey in the hot sun, since it involved a circuit
of the endless walls of Memphis, with stoppages before all the temples of the gods, at each
of which Pharaoh must make offerings. Nor, weary as he was, might he rest, for in the outer
court of the old shrine thrones had been set up and seated on them he and Tua must hear petitions
till sunset and give judgment, or postpone them for further consideration.

At last there came to an end, but, as Pharaoh, tired out, rose from his throne, Abi, his brother,
who all this time had not left them, said that he also had a private petition to prefer. So
they went into an inner court that had been a sanctuary, and sat down again, there being present
besides the scribes only Pharaoh, the Queen, some councillors, Mermes, captain of the guard,
and certain women of the royal household, among them Asti, the Queen's nurse, and Merytra,
Pharaoh's favourite attendant. With Abi were his astrologer, Kaku, his two eldest sons, and
a few of the great officers of his government, also the high-priests of the temples of Memphis,
and three powerful chiefs of the Desert tribes.

"What is your prayer, my brother?" asked Pharaoh, as soon as the doors were closed.

"A great one, your Majesties," answered the Prince, prostrating himself, "which for the good
of Egypt, and for your own good, and for my good, who reverence you as a loyal subject, I pray
that you will be pleased to grant." Then he drew himself up and said slowly, "I am here to
ask the hand of the glorious Queen Neter-Tua, daughter of Amen, in marriage."

Now Pharaoh stared at him, while Tua, who knew well what was coming, turned her head aside,
and asked a councillor who stood near, if in the history of the land any Queen of Egypt had
ever married her uncle.

The councillor who was noted for his historical studies, answered that at the moment he could
recall no such case.

"Then," said Tua coolly, and still addressing him, "it seems that it would be scarcely wise
to create a precedent which other poor young women of the royal race might be called upon to
follow."

Pharaoh caught something of the words, though Abi did not for they were spoken in a low voice,
and bethought him of a way out of his difficulty.

"The Queen Neter-Tua sits at my side, and is co-regent with me of this kingdom, her mind is
my mind, and what she approves it is probable I shall approve. Prefer your request to her,"
he said.

So Abi turned to the Queen, and laying his hands upon his heart, bowed, ogled, and began:

"A burning love of your most excellent Majesty moves me----"

"I pray you, my Uncle," interrupted Tua, "correct your words, which should begin 'A burning
love of your most excellent Majesty's throne and power move me,' and so on."

Now Abi frowned while everyone else smiled, not excepting Pharaoh and the astrologer, Kaku.
Again he began his speech, but so confusedly that presently Tua stopped him for the second
time, saying:

"I am not deaf, most noble prince, my Uncle. I heard the words you used to Pharaoh, and even
understood their import. In fact, I have already consulted our councillor here, a learned master
of the law, as to the legality of such an alliance as you propose, and he gives his judgment
against it."

Now Abi glared at the Councillor, a humble, dusty old man who spent all his life among rolls
and chronicles.

"May it please your Majesty," this lawyer exclaimed in a thin agitated voice, "I only said
there was no record of such a marriage that I can remember, though once I think a queen adopted
a nephew, who afterwards became Pharaoh."

"It is the same thing, Friend," replied Tua sweetly, "for that of which there is no record
in the long history of Egypt must of necessity be illegal. Still, if my uncle here wishes to
adopt me, I thank him, though his lawful heirs may not, and the matter is one that can be considered."

Now, guessing that he was being played with, Abi grew angry.

"I have put a plain question to your Majesty," he said, "and perhaps I am worthy of a plain
answer. As all men know, O Queen, it is time that you should be wed, and I offer myself as
your husband. It is true that I am somewhat older than you are----"

"In what year was the Prince Abi born, the same as yourself, did you say?" asked Tua in an
audible aside of the aged and learned Councillor, who thereon vanished behind the throne, and
was seen no more.

"But," went on Abi, taking no notice of this interruption, "on the other hand I have much to
offer. I rule here, your Majesties, who am also of the royal blood, and there is some disaffection
in the North, especially among the great Bedouin tribes of the Desert who watch the frontier
of the Kingdom. Now if this alliance comes about, and in days to be I sit upon the double throne
as King-Consort of Egypt, they will be loyal, and north and south will be united more closely
than they ever were before. Whereas if it does not come about----" Here Kaku, pretending to
brush a fly from his face, caught his hand in Abi's robe, a signal at which his master paused.

"Go on, my Uncle, I pray you," said Tua. "If it does not come about, what then?"

"Then, Queen, there may be trouble. Nay, leave me alone, Magician, I will speak the truth,
chance what may. Pharaoh, you have reigned for many years; yes, forty times has the Nile overflowed
its banks since we laid our divine father in the tomb. Now, during all those years but one
child has been born to you, and that after I came to Thebes to pray you to name me as your
heir. Know, Pharaoh, that there are many who find this strange, and wonder whether this beautiful
queen, who is called Daughter of Amen, and resembles you so little in body or in mind, sits
rightfully on the throne of Egypt. If I marry her these questionings will cease. If I do not
marry her the whisperings of men may grow to a wind that will blow the crown from off her head."

Now a grasp of fear and wonder rose from all who heard this bold and treasonable speech, and
Tua, reddening to the eyes, bent forward as though to answer. But before ever a word had passed
her lips Pharaoh sprang from his seat transformed with rage. All his patient gentleness was
gone, and he looked so fierce and royal that everyone present there, even Abi himself, quailed
before him.

"Is it for this that I have borne with you for so long, my brother?" he cried, rending at his
robes. "Is it for this that I spared you years ago in Thebes, when your life was forfeit for
your treachery? Is it for this that I have suffered you to rise to great honour, and to rule
here almost as a king in my city of Memphis? Was it not enough that I should sit quiet, while
you, an old man, the son of our father's barbarian slave, the loose-living despot, dare to
ask for the pure hand of Egypt's Queen in marriage, you, her uncle, who might well be her grandfather
also? Must I also hear your foul mouth beslime her royal birth, and the honour of her divine
mother, and spit sneers at Amen, Father of the gods? Well, Amen shall deal with you when you
come to the doors of his Eternal House, but here on earth I am his son and servant. Mermes,
call my guards, and arrest this man and hold him safe. At Thebes, whither we depart to-morrow,
he shall be judged according to our law."

Now Mermes blew a shrill call on the silver whistle that hung about his neck, and, springing
forward, seized the Prince by the arm. Abi drew his sword to cut him down, and at the sight
of the blade, all who were with him rushed to the door to escape, sweeping before them certain
of Pharaoh's ladies, among them the waiting-woman, Merytra. But before ever they could pass
it, the guards who had heard the signal of Mermes, ran in with lifted spears, driving them
back again. Leaping upon Abi, they tore the sword from his hand, and threw him to the ground,
huddling the rest together like frightened sheep.

"Bind this traitor and keep him safe, for to-morrow he accompanies us to Thebes," said Pharaoh.

"What of his sons, and those with him, your Majesty?" asked the officer of the guard.

"Let them go," answered Pharaoh wearily, "for they have not sinned against us. Let them go,
and take warning from their master's fate."

Now, as it chanced in the confusion, Merytra had been pushed against Kaku.

"Hearken," whispered the astrologer into the woman's ear. "Do as I bid you last night, and
all will yet be well. Do it or die. Do you hear me?"

"I hear, and I will obey," answered Merytra in the same low voice.

Then they were separated, for the guards took Kaku by the arm and thrust him out of the temple
together with the sons of Abi.

An hour later Mermes and Asti stood before Pharaoh, and prayed him that he would depart from
Memphis that very night, saying that such was the counsel also of the Queen and of his officers.
But Pharaoh was tired out, and would not listen.

"To-morrow, when I have slept, will be time enough," he answered. "Moreover, shall I fly from
my own city like a thief when naught is ready for our journey? Why do you press me to such
a coward's act?" he added peevishly.

"For this reason, your Majesty," answered Mermes. "We are sure there is a plot to keep you
here. This afternoon you could not have gone, had you tried, but to-night, Abi, being a prisoner,
his people are dismayed, and having no leader will open the gates. By to-morrow one may be
found, and they will be double-barred and guarded."

"What!" asked the King scornfully, "do you mean that I am a prisoner also, and here in Egypt,
which I rule? Nay, good friends, at Pharaoh's word those gates will open. Or if they do not,
I will pull down Memphis stone by stone, and drive out its people to share their caves with
jackals. Do they think because I am kind and gentle, that I cannot lift the sword if there
be need? Have they forgotten how I smote those rebels in my youth, and gave their cities to
the flames, and set my yoke on Syria, that aided them. We march to-morrow, and not before.
I have spoken."

Now Mermes bowed and turned to go, since when those words had passed Pharaoh's lips it was
not lawful to answer them. Yet Asti dared to do so.

"O Pharaoh," she said, "be not wrath with your servant. Pharaoh, as you know, I have skill
in divination, the spirits of the dead whisper at times in my ears of things that are to be.
It seemed to me just now when having left the presence of the Queen, my foster-child, I stood
a while alone in the darkness, that the divine Majesty of the great lady, the royal wife, Ahura,
who was my friend and mistress, stood beside me and said:

"'Go, Asti, to Pharaoh, and say to Pharaoh that great danger threatens him and our royal daughter.
Say to him--Fly from Memphis, lest there he should be prepared for burial, and the Star of
Amen hidden by a cloud of shame. Bid him beware of one about his throne, and of that evil magician
with whom she made a pact last night.'"

Now Pharaoh looked at Asti and said:

"O dreamer of dreams, interpret your own dream. Who is she about my throne of whom I should
beware, and who is the magician with whom she made a pact?"

"The divine Queen did not tell me, Pharaoh," answered Asti stubbornly, "but my own skill tells
me. She is Merytra, your favourite, and the magician is Kaku, whom she visited last night."

"What!" exclaimed Pharaoh, laughing. "That long-legged old astrologer with the painted cap
who ran so fast when his master was taken? Why! he is nothing but a spy who has been in my
pay for years; a charlatan who pretends to knowledge that he may win the secrets of his Prince.
And Merytra, too, Merytra, who in bygone times warned me of this Abi's foolish plot. Asti,
you are high-born and wise, one whom I love, and honour much, as does the Queen, my daughter,
but you can still be jealous, as I have noted long. Asti, be not deceived, it was jealousy
of Merytra that whispered in your ears, not the spirit of the divine Ahura. Now go and take
your terrors with you, for this dark conspirator, Merytra, waits in my chamber to unrobe me,
and talk me to sleep with her pleasant jests and gossip."

"Pharaoh has spoken, I go," said Asti in her quiet voice. "May Pharaoh's rest be sweet, and
his awaking happy."

That night Tua could not sleep. Whenever she shut her eyes visions rose before her mind, terrifying,
fantastic visions in all of which the fat and hideous Abi played a part. Thus she saw again
the scene at her father's fatal feast to the Priest of Kesh, when Asti by her magic had caused
the likeness of a monkey to come from the juggler's vase. Only now it was Abi who emerged from
the vase, a terrible Abi, with a red sword in his hand, and Pharaoh's crown upon his head.
He leapt from the mouth of the vase, he devoured her with his greedy eyes, with stealthy steps
he came to seize her, and she could not stir an inch, something held her fast upon her throne.

She could bear it no more--she opened her eyes, stared at the darkness, and out of the darkness
came voices, telling of death and war. She thrust her fingers into her ears, and tried to fix
her thoughts on Rames, that bright-eyed, light-footed lover of hers, whom she so longed to
see again, without whom she was so lonely and undefended.

"Where was Rames?" she wondered. "What fate had overtaken him? Something in her seemed to answer--Death.
Oh! if Rames were dead, what should she do? Of what use was it to be Queen of Egypt, the first
woman in the world, if Rames were dead?"

Loneliness, insufferable loneliness seemed to get a hold of her. She slipped from her bed,
and through the doorway of her little pylon chamber. Now she was upon the narrow stair, and
in face of her was that other chamber where Asti slept. Someone was talking with her! Perhaps
Mermes was with his wife, and if so she could not enter. No, it was Asti's voice, and, listening,
she could hear her murmuring prayers or invocations in solemn tones. She pushed open the door
and entered. A little lamp burned in the room, and by its feeble light she saw the white-robed
Asti, whose long hair fell about her, standing with upturned eyes and arms outstretched to
Heaven. Suddenly Asti saw her also, though but dimly for she stood in the dense shadow, and
knew her not.

"Advance, O thou Ghost, and declare thyself, for never was thy help more needed," she said.

"It is no ghost, but I," said Tua. "What dealings are these that you have with ghosts at this
deadest hour of the night, Asti? Do not enough terrors encompass us that you must needs call
on your familiar spirits to add to them?"

"I call on the spirits to save us from them, Queen, for, like you, I think that we are set
in the midst of perils. This night is full of sorcery; I scent it in the air, and strive to
match spell with spell. But why do you not sleep?"

"I cannot, Asti, I cannot. Fear has got hold of me. Oh! I would that we had never come to this
hateful Memphis, or set eyes upon its ill-omened lord, that foul brute who seeks to make a
wife of me."

"Be not afraid, Lady," said Asti, throwing her arms about Tua's slight and quivering form.
"To-morrow morning we march; I have it from Pharaoh, and already the guard make preparations,
while as for the accursed Abi, he is in prison."

"There is no prison that will hold him, Asti, save the grave. Oh! why did not my Father command
him to be slain, as I would have done? Then, at least, we should be free of him, and he could
never marry me."

"Because it was otherwise decreed, O Neter-Tua, and Pharaoh must fulfil his fate and ours,
for though he is so gentle, none can turn him."

As she spoke the words, somewhere, far beneath them, arose a cry, a voice of one in dread or
woe, and with it the sound of feet upon the stairs.

"What passes?" said Asti, leaping to the door.

"Pharaoh is dead or dying," answered the terrified voice without. "Let her Majesty come to
Pharaoh."

They threw on their garments, they ran down the narrow stair and across the halls till they
came to the chamber of Pharaoh. There upon his bed he lay and about him were the physicians
of his Court. He was speechless, but his eyes were open, and he knew his daughter, for, raising
his hand feebly, he beckoned to her, and pointed at his feet.

"What is it, man?" she asked of the head physician, who, by way of answer, lifted the linen
on the bed, and showed her Pharaoh's legs and feet, white and withered as though with fire.

"What sickness is this?" asked Tua again.

"We know not, O Queen," answered the physician, "for in all our lives we have never seen its
like. The flesh is suddenly wasted, and the limbs are paralysed."

"But I know," broke in Asti. "This is not sickness, it is sorcery. Pharaoh has been smitten
by some foul spell of the Prince Abi, or of his wizards. Say, who was with him last?"

"It seems that the Lady of the Footstool, Merytra, sang him to sleep, as was her custom," answered
the physician, "and left him about two hours ago, so say the guard. When I came in to see how
his Majesty rested but now, I found him thus."

Now Tua lifted up her head and spoke, saying:

"My divine Father is helpless, and therefore again I rule alone in Egypt. Hear me and obey.
Let the Prince Abi be brought from his prison to the inner hall, for I would question him at
once. Let the waiting-woman, Merytra, be brought also under guard with drawn swords."

The officer of the watch bowed and departed to do the bidding of her Majesty, while others
went to light the hall.

Soon he returned to an outer chamber whither Tua had withdrawn herself while the physicians
examined Pharaoh.

"O Queen," he said, with a frightened face, "be not wrath, but the Prince Abi has gone. He
has escaped out of his prison, and the waiting-woman, Merytra, is gone also."

"How came this about?" asked Tua in a cold voice.

"O Queen, the small gate was open, for people passed in and out of it continually, making preparation
for to-morrow's march, it seems that about an hour ago the lady Merytra came to the gate and
showed Pharaoh's signet to the officer, saying that she was on Pharaoh's business. With her
went a fat man dressed in the robe of a master of camels that in the darkness the officer thought
was a certain Arab of the Desert who has been to and fro about the camels. It is believed that
this man was none other than the Prince Abi, dressed in the Arab's robe, and that he escaped
from his cell by some secret passage which was known to him, a passage of the old priests.
The Arab, whose robes he wore, cannot be found, but perhaps he is asleep in some corner."

"Bar the gates," said Tua, "and let none pass in or out. Asti, take men with you, and go search
the room where Merytra slept. Perchance she has returned again."

So Asti went, and a while after re-appeared carrying something enveloped in a cloth.

"Merytra has gone, O Queen," she said in an ominous voice, "leaving this behind hidden beneath
her bed," and she placed the object on a table.

"What is it? The mummy of a child?" asked Tua, shrinking back.

"Nay, Queen, the image of a man."

Then throwing aside the cloth Asti revealed the waxen figure shaped to the exact likeness of
Pharaoh, or rather what remained of it, for the legs were molten and twisted, and in them could
be seen the bones of ivory and the sinews of thin wire, about which they had been moulded.
Also beneath the chin where the tongue would be, sharp thorns had been thrust up to the root
of the mouth. The thing was life-like and horrible, and as it was, so was the dumb and stricken
Pharaoh on his bed.

Neter-Tua hid her eyes for a while, and leaned against the wall, then she drew herself up and said:

"Call the physicians and the members of the Council, and those who can be spared of the officers
of the guard, that everyone of them may see and bear witness to the hideous crime which has
been worked against Pharaoh by his brother, the Prince Abi, and the wizard Kaku, and their
accomplice, the woman Merytra."

So they were called, and came, and when they saw the dreadful thing lying in its waxen whiteness
before them, they wailed and cursed those who had wrought this abominable sorcery.

"Curse them not," said Neter-Tua, "who are already accursed, and given over to the Devourer
of Souls when their time shall come. Make a record of this deed, O Scribes, and do it swiftly."

So the scribes wrote the matter down, and the Queen and others who were present signed the
writings as witnesses. Then Neter-Tua commanded that they should take the image and destroy
it before it worked more evil, and a priest of Osiris who was present seized it and departed.

But Neter-Tua went to Pharaoh's room and knelt by his bed, watching him, for he seemed to be
asleep. Presently he awoke, and looked round him wildly, moving his lips. For a while he could
not speak, then of a sudden his voice burst from him in a hoarse, unnatural cry.

"They have bewitched me! I burn, I burn!" he screamed, rolling himself to and fro upon the
bed. "Avenge me, my daughter, and fear nothing, for the gods are about you. I see their awful
eyes. Oh! I burn, I burn!"

Then his head fell back, and the peace of death descended on his tortured brow.

Tua kissed his dead brow, and knelt at his side in prayer. After a little while she rose and said:

"It has pleased Pharaoh, the just and perfect, to depart to his everlasting habitation in Osiris.
Make it known that this god is dead, and that I rule alone in Egypt. Send hither the priest
of Osiris, that he may repeat the Ritual of Departing, and you, physicians, do your office."

So the priest came, but at the door Asti caught him by the hand and asked:

"How did you destroy the image of wax?"

"I burned it upon the altar in the old sanctuary of this temple," he answered.

"O, Fool!" said Asti, "you should have buried it. Know that with the enchanted thing you have
burned away the life of Pharaoh also."

Then that priest fell swooning to the ground, and another had to be summoned to utter the Ritual
of Departing.

CHAPTER X

THE COMING OF THE KA

Now it was morning, and while the physicians embalmed the body of Pharaoh as best they could,
Tua consulted with her officers. Long and earnest was that council, for all of them felt that
their danger was very great. Abi had escaped, and if he were re-taken, none knew better than
he that his death and that of all his House would be the reward of his crimes and sorceries
which could only be covered up in one way--by marriage with the Queen of Egypt. Moreover, he
had thousands of soldiers in the city and around it, all of them sworn to his service, whereas
the royal guard was but five companies, each of a hundred men, trapped in a snare of streets
and stone.

One of them suggested that they should break a way through the wall of the temple, and escape
to the royal barges that lay moored on the Nile beneath them, and this plan was approved. But
when they went to set about the work it was seen that these barges had been seized and were
already sailing away up the river. So but two alternatives remained--to bide within the fortifications
of the old temple, and send out messengers for help, or to march through the city boldly, break
down the gates if these were shut against them, seize boats, and sail up the Nile for some
loyal town, or if that could not be done, to take their chance in the open lands.

Now some favoured one scheme, and some the other, so that at last the decision was left with
her Majesty. She thought awhile, then said:

"Here I will not stay, to be starved out as we must ere ever an army could be gathered to rescue
us, and be given into the power of that vile and wicked man, the murderer of the good god,
my father. Better that I should die fighting in the streets, for then at least I shall pass
undefiled to join him in his eternal habitation beyond the sun. We march at midnight."

So they bowed beneath her word, and made ready while the women of his household raised a death-wail
for Pharaoh, and criers standing on the high towers proclaimed the accession of Neter-Tua,
Morning-Star of Amen, Glorious in Ra, Hathor, Strong in Beauty, as sole Lord and Sovereign
of the North and South, and of Egypt's subject lands. Again and again they proclaimed it, and
of the multitudes who listened some cheered, but the most remained silent, fearing the vengeance
of their Prince, whom the heralds summoned to do homage, but who made no sign.

Night came at last. At a signal the gates were opened, and through them, borne upon the shoulders
of his Councillors, preceded by a small body of guards, and followed by his women and household,
went the remains of Pharaoh, in a coffin roughly fashioned from the sycamore timbers of the
temple. With solemn step and slow, they went as though they feared no harm, the priests and
singers chanting some ancient, funeral hymn. Next followed the baggage bearers, and after these
the royal bodyguard in the midst of whom the Queen, clad in mail, as a man, rode in a chariot,
and with her the waiting-lady, Asti, wife of Mermes.

At first all went well, for the great square in front of the temple was empty. The procession
of the body of Pharaoh passed it, and vanished down the street that led to the main gate, a
mile away. Now the guard formed into line to enter this street also, when suddenly, barring
the mouth of it, appeared great companies of men who had been hidden in other streets.

A voice cried "Halt!" and while the guards re-shaped themselves into a square about the person
of the Queen, an embassy of officers, among whom were recognised the four lawful sons of Abi,
advanced and demanded in the Prince's name that her Majesty should be given over to them, saying
that she would be treated with all honour, and that those who accompanied her might go free.

"Answer that the Queen of Egypt does not yield herself into the hands of rebels, and of murderers;
then fall on them, and slay them all," cried Neter-Tua when Mermes, her captain, had given
her this message.

So he went forward and returned the answer, and next moment a flight of arrows from the Queen's
guard laid low the four sons of Abi, and most of those who were with them.

Then the fight began, one of the fiercest that had been known in Egypt for many a generation.
The royal regiment, it is true, was but small, but they were picked men, and mad with despair
and rage. Moreover, Tua the Queen played no woman's part that night, for when these charged,
striving to cut a path through the opposing hosts, she charged with them, and by the moonlight
was seen standing like an angry goddess in her chariot, and loosing arrows from her bow. Also
no hurt came to her or those with her, or even to the horses that drew her. It was as though
she were protected by some unseen strength, that caught the sword cuts and turned aside the
points of spears.

Yet it availed not, for the men of Abi were a multitude, and the royal guard but very few.
Slowly, an ever-lessening band, they were pressed back, first to the walls of the old temple
of Sekhet, and then within its outer court. Now all who were left of them, not fifty men under
the command of Mermes, strove to hold the gate. Desperately they fought, and one by one went
down to death beneath the rain of spears.

Tua had dismounted from her chariot, and leaning on her bow, for all her arrows were spent,
watched the fray with Asti at her side. With a yell the troops of Abi rushed through the gate,
killing as they came. Now, surrounded by all who remained to her, not a dozen men, they were
driven back through the inner courts, through the halls, to the pylon stairs.

Here the last stand was made. Step by step they held the stairs, till at length there were
left upon their feet only Tua, Asti and Mermes, her husband, who was sorely wounded in many
places. At the little landing between the rooms of the Queen and Asti while the assailants
paused a moment, the Captain Mermes, mad with grief and pain, turned and kissed his wife. Next
he bowed before the Queen, saying:

"What a man may do, I have done to save your Majesty. Now I go to make report to Pharaoh, leaving
you in charge of Amen, who shall protect you, and to Rames, my son, the heritage of vengeance.
Farewell, O Daughter of Amen, till I see your star rise in the darkness of the Under-World,
and to you, beloved wife, farewell."

Then, uttering the war-cry of his fathers, those Pharaohs who once had ruled in Egypt, the
tall and noble Mermes grasped his sword in both his hands, and rushed upon the advancing foe,
slaying and slaying until he himself was slain.

"Come with me, O Wife of a royal hero," said Tua to Asti, who had covered her eyes with her
hand, and was leaning against the wall.

"Widow, not wife, Queen. Did you not see his spirit pass?"

Then Tua led her up more steps to the top of the pylon tower, where Asti sank down moaning
in her misery. Tua walked to the outermost edge of the tower and stood there waiting the end.
It was the moment of dawn. On the eastern horizon the red rim of the sun arose out of the desert
in a clear sky. There upon that lofty pinnacle, clad in shining mail, and wearing a helm shaped
like the crown of Lower Egypt, Tua stood in its glorious rays that turned her to a figure of
fire set above a world of shadow. The thousands of the people watching from the streets below,
and from boats upon the Nile, saw her, and raised a shout of wonder and of adoration.

"The Daughter of Amen-Ra!" they cried. "Behold her clad in the glory of the god!"

Soldiers crept up the stairs to the pylon roof and saw her also, while, now that the fray was
ended, with them came the Prince Abi.

"Seize her," he panted, for the stairs were steep and robbed him of his breath.

But the soldiers looked and shrank back before the Majesty of Egypt, wrapped in her robe of light.

"We fear," they answered, "the ghost of Pharaoh stands before her."

Then Neter-Tua spoke, saying:

"Abi, once a Prince of Egypt and Hereditary Lord of Memphis, but now an outcast murderer, black
with the blood of your King, and of many a loyal man, hear me, the anointed Queen of Egypt,
hear me, O man upon whom I decree the judgment of the first and second death. Come but one
step near to my Majesty, and before your eyes, and the eyes of all the multitude who watch,
I hurl myself from this hideous place into the waters of the Nile. Yet ere I go to join dead
Pharaoh, and side by side with him to lay our plaint against you before the eternal gods, listen
to our curse upon you. From this day forward a snake shall prey upon your vitals, gnawing upwards
to your heart. The spirits of Pharaoh and of all his servants whom you have slain shall haunt
your sleep; never shall you know one more hour of happy rest. Through life henceforth you shall
fly from a shadow, and if you climb a throne, it shall be such a one as that on which I stand
encircled with the perilous depths of darkness. Thence you shall fall at last, dying by a death
of shame, and the evil gods shall seize upon you, O Traitor, and drag you to the maw of the
Eater-up of Souls, and therein you shall vanish for ever for aye, you and all your House, and
all those who cling to you. Thus saith Neter-Tua, speaking with the voice of Amen who created
her, her father and the god of gods."

Now when the soldiers heard these dreadful words, one by one they turned and crept down the
stairs, till at last there were left upon the pylon roof only the Queen, Asti crouching at
her feet, and the monstrous Abi, her uncle.

He looked at her, and thrice he tried to speak but failed, for the words choked in his throat.
A fourth time he tried, and they came hoarsely:

"Take off your curse, O mighty Queen," he said, "and I will let you go. I am old, to-night
all my lawful sons are dead; take off your curse, leave me in my Government, and though I desire
you more than the throne of Egypt, O Beautiful, still I will let you go."

"Nay," answered the Queen, "I cannot if I would. It is not I who spoke, but a Spirit in my
mouth. Do your worst, O son of Set. The curse remains upon you."

Now Abi shook in the fury of his fear, and answered:

"So be it, Star of Amen, having nothing more to dread I will do my worst. Pharaoh my enemy
is dead, and you, his daughter, shall be my wife of your own free will, or since no man will
lay a finger upon you, here in this tower you shall starve. Death is not yet; I shall have
my day, it is sworn to me. Reign with me if you will, or starve without me if you will--I tell
you, Daughter of Amen, that I shall have my day."

"And I tell you, Son of Set, that after the day comes the long terror of that night which knows
no morrow."

Then finding no answer, he too turned and went.

When he was gone Neter-Tua stood a while looking down upon the thousands of people gathered
in the great square where the battle had been fought, who stared up at her in a deadly silence.
Then she descended from the coping-stone, and, taking Asti by the arm, led her from the roof
to the little chamber where she had slept.

Six days had gone by, and Queen Neter-Tua starved in the pylon tower. Till now the water had
held out for there was a good supply of it in jars, but at last it was done, while, as for
food, they had eaten nothing except a store of honey which Asti took at night from the bees
that hived among the topmost pylon stones. That day the honey was done also, and if had not
been, without water to wash it down they could have swallowed no more of the sickly stuff.
Indeed, although in after years in memory of its help, Neter-Tua chose the bee as her royal
symbol, never again could she bring herself to eat of the fruit of its labours.

"Come, Nurse," said Tua, "let us go to the roof, and watch the setting of Ra, perhaps for the
last time, since I think that we follow him through the Western Gates."

So they went, supporting each other up the steps, for they grew weak. From this lofty place
they saw that save on the Nile side of it which was patrolled by the warships of Abi, all the
temple was surrounded by a double ring of soldiers, while beyond the soldiers, on the square
where the great fight had been, were gathered thousands of the people who knew that the starving
Queen was wont to appear thus upon the pylon at sunset.

At the sight of her, clad in the mail which she still wore, a murmur rose from them like the
murmur of the sea, followed by a deep silence since they dared not declare the pity which moved
them all. In the midst of this silence, whilst the sun sank behind the Pyramids of the ancient
kings, Neter-Tua lifted up her glorious voice and sang the evening hymn to Amen-Ra. As the
last notes died away in the still air, again the murmur rose while the darkness gathered about
the pylon, hiding her from the gaze of men.

Hand in hand as they had come, the two deserted women descended the stair to their sleeping-place.

"They dare not help us, Asti," said Tua, "let us lie down and die."

"Nay, Queen," answered Asti, "let us turn to one that giveth help to the helpless. Do you remember
the words spoken by the shining spirit of Ahura the Divine?"

"I remember them, Asti."

"Queen, I have waited long, since the spell she whispered to me may be used once only, but
now I am sure that the moment is at hand when that which dwells within you must be called forth
to save you."

"Then call it forth, Asti," answered Tua wearily, "if you have the power. If not, oh! let us
die. But say, whom would you summon? The glory of Amen or the ghost of Pharaoh, or Ahura, my
mother, or one of the guardian gods?"

"None of these," answered Asti, "for I have been bidden otherwise. Lie you down and sleep,
my fosterling, for I have much to do in the hours of darkness. When you awake you shall learn all."

"Aye," said Tua, "when I awake, if ever I do awake. Is it in your mind to kill me in my sleep,
Asti? Is that your command? Well, if so, I shall not blame you, for then I will break this
long fast of mine with Pharaoh and the divine mother, Ahura, who bore me, and together in the
pleasant Fields of Peace we will wait for Rames, my lover and your son. Being a queen, they
will give my burial in my father's tomb, and that is all I crave of them, and of this weary
world. Sing me to rest, Nurse, as you were wont to do when I was little, and, if it be your
will, tarry not long behind me."

So she laid herself down upon the bed, and, taking her hand that had grown so thin, the tall
and noble Asti bent over her in the darkness, and began to sing a gentle chant or lullaby.

Tua's eyes closed, her breath came slow and deep. Then Asti the magician ceased her song and,
gathering up her secret strength, put out her prayers, prayer after prayer, till at length
all her soul was pure, and she dared to utter the awful spell that Ahura had whispered in her
ear. At the muttered, holy words wild voices cried through the night, the solid pylon rocked,
and in the city the crystal globe into which Kaku and Merytra gazed was suddenly shattered
between them, and, white with terror at he knew not what, Abi sprang from his couch.

Then Asti also sank into sleep or swoon, and all was silent in that chamber, silent as the grave.

Neter-Tua awoke. Through the pylon window-place crept the first grey light of dawn. Her eyes
searching the gloom fell first upon the dark-robed figure of Asti sleeping in a chair, her
head resting upon her hand. Then a brightness drew them to the foot of her bed, and there,
clothed in a faint, white light, that seemed as though it were drawn from the stars and the
moon, wearing the Double Crown, and arrayed in all the royal robes of Egypt, she saw--herself.

Now Tua knew that she dreamed, and for a long while lay still, for it pleased her, starved
and wretched as she was, a prisoner in the hands of her foes, a netted bird, to let her fancy
dwell upon this splendid image of what she had been before an evil fate, speaking with the
voice of Merytra, Lady of the Footstool, had beguiled dead Pharaoh to Memphis. If things had
gone well with her, she should be as that image was to-day, that image which wore her crown
and robes of state, yes, and her very jewels. Such were the changes of fortune even in the
lives of princes whose throne seemed to be set upon a rock, princes whom the god of gods had
fathered. Never before in her young life had the thing come so home to her, for until now,
even through the hunger and the fear, her pride had borne her up. But in this chilly hour that
precedes the dawn, the hour when, as they say, men are wont to die, it was otherwise with her.
Her end was near--she knew it and understood that between the mightiest monarch in the world
and the humblest peasant maid at the last there is no difference, save perchance a difference
of the soul within.

Here she lay, a shadow, who must choose between a miserable end by thirst and hunger, or a
loathsome marriage. And what availed it that she was called Morning-Star of Amen, she the only
child of Pharaoh and of his royal wife, and that when she was dead they would grant her a state
funeral, and inscribe her name among the lists of kings, while Abi, the foul usurper, sat upon
her throne. Here on the bed lay what she was, there at the foot of it stood what she should
be if the gods had not deserted her.

Her poor heart was filled with bitterness like a cup with vinegar, bitterness flowed through
her in the place of blood. It seemed hard to die so young, she whom men named a god; to die
robbed of her crown, robbed of her vengeance, and taking with her her deep, unfruitful love.
Would she and Rames meet beyond the grave, she wondered? Would they wed and bear children there,
who should rule as Pharaohs in the Under-world? Would Osiris redeem her mortal flesh, and Amen
the Father, receive her; or would she rush down into everlasting blackness where sleep is all
in all?

Oh! for one hour of strength and freedom, one short hour while at the head of her armies she
rolled down upon rebellious Memphis in her might, and trod its high walls flat, and gave its
palaces to the flames, and cast its accursed prince to the jaws of crocodiles. Her sunk eyes
flashed at the thought of it, and her wasted bosom heaved, and lo! the eyes of that royal queen
of her dreams flashed also as though in answer, and on its breast the jewels rose as though
pride or anger lifted them.

Then this marvel came to pass, for the beautiful face--could her own ever have been so beautiful?--the
imperial face, bent forward a little, and from the red lips came a soft voice, her own rich
voice, that said:

"Speak your will, Queen, and it shall be done. I, who stand here, am your servant to command,
O Morning-Star, O Amen's royal child."

Tua sat up in her bed and laughed at the vision.

"My will!" she said. "O Dream, why do you mock me? Let me think. What is my will? Well, Dream,
it is that of the beggar at the gate--I desire a drink of water, and a crust of bread."

"They are there," answered the figure, pointing with the crystal sceptre in her hand to the
table beside the couch.

Idly enough Tua looked, and so it was! On the table stood pure water in a silver cup, and by
it cakes of bread upon a golden platter. She stretched out her hand, for surely this fantasy
was pleasant, and took that ghost of a silver cup, her own cup that Pharaoh had given her as
a child, and brought it to her lips and drank, and lo! water pure and cold flowed down her
throat, until at length even her raging thirst was satisfied. Then she stretched out her hand
again, and took the loaves of bread, and ate them hungrily till all were gone, and as she swallowed
the last of them, exclaimed in bitter shame:

"Oh! what a selfish wretch am I who have drunk and eaten all, leaving nothing for my foster-mother,
Asti, who lies asleep, and dies of want as I did."

"Fear not," answered the Dream. "Look, there are more for Asti." And it was true, for the silver
cup brimmed once more with cold water, and on the golden platter were other cakes.

Now the Dream spoke again:

"Surely," it said, "there were other wishes in your heart, O Morning-Star, than that for human
sustenance?"

"Aye, O Dream, I wished for vengeance upon Abi, the traitor, Abi the murderer of my father,
who would bring me to the last shame of womanhood. I wished for vengeance upon Abi, and all
who cling to him."

The bright figure bowed, stretching out its jewelled hands, and answered:

"I am your servant to obey. It shall be worked, O Queen, such vengeance as you cannot dream
of, vengeance poured drop by drop like poison in his veins, the torment of disappointed love,
the torment of horrible fear, the torment of power given and snatched away, the torment of
a death of shame, and the everlasting torment of the Eater-up of Souls--this vengeance shall
be worked upon Abi and all who cling to him. Was there not another wish in your heart, O Morning-Star,
O Queen divine?"

"Aye," answered Tua, "but I may not speak it all even to myself in sleep."

"It shall be given to you, O Morning-Star. You shall find your love though far away beyond
the horizon, and he shall return with you, and you twain shall rule in the Upper and the Lower
Land, and in all the lands beyond with glory such as has not been known in Egypt."

Now, at length, Tua seemed to awake. She rubbed her eyes and looked. There was the sleeping
Asti; there on the table beside her were the water and the bread; there at the foot of the
couch, glimmering in the low lights of dawn, was the glorious figure of herself draped in the
splendid robes.

"Who, and what are you?" she cried. "Are you a god or a spirit, or are you but a mocking vision
caught in the web of my madness?"

"I am none of these things, O Morning-Star, I am yourself. I am that Ka whom our father Amen
gave to you at birth to dwell with you and protect you. Do you not remember me when as a child
we played together?"

"I remember," answered Tua. "You warned me of the danger of the sacred crocodile in the Temple
tank, but since then I have never seen you. What gives you the strength to appear in the flesh
before me, O Double?"

"The magic of Asti with which she has been endowed from on high to save you, Neter-Tua, that
gives me strength. Know that although you cannot always see me, I am your eternal companion.
Through life I go with you, and when you die I watch in your tomb, perfect, incorruptible,
preserving your wisdom, your loveliness, and all that is yours, until the day of resurrection.
I have power, I have the secret knowledge which dwells in you, although you cannot grasp it;
I remember the Past, the infinite, infinite Past that you forget, I foresee the Future, the
endless, endless Future that is hidden from you, to which the life you know is but as a single
leaf upon the tree, but as one grain of sand in the billions of the Desert. I look upon the
faces of the gods, and hear their whisperings; Fate gives me his book to read; I sleep secure
in the presence of the Eternal who sent me forth, and to whom at last I return again, my journey
ended, my work fulfilled, bearing you in my holy arms. O Morning-Star, the spells of Asti have
clothed me in this magic flesh, the might of Amen has set me on my feet. I am here, your servant,
to obey."

Now, amazed, bewildered, Tua called out:

"Awake, Nurse, awake, for I am mad. It seems to me that a messenger from on high, robed in
my own flesh, stands before me and speaks with me."

Asti opened her eyes, and, perceiving the beautiful figure, rose and did obeisance to it, but
said no word.

"Be seated," said the Ka, "and hear me, time is short. I awoke at the summons, I came forth,
I am present, I endure until the spell is taken off me, and I return whence I came. O Interpreter,
speak the will of her of whom I am, that I may do it in my own fashion. There is food--eat
and drink, then speak."

So Asti ate and drank as Tua had done, and when she had finished and was satisfied, behold!
the cup and the platter vanished away. Next in a slow, quiet voice she spoke, saying:

"O Shadow of this royal Star, by my spells incorporate, this is our case: Here we starve in
misery, and without the gate Abi waits the end. If the Queen lives, he will take her who hates
him to be his wife; if she dies he will seize her throne. Our wisdom is finished. What must
we do to save this Star that it may shine serene until its appointed hour of setting?"

"Is that all you seek?" asked the Double, when she had finished.

"Nay," broke in Tua hurriedly, "I would not shine alone, I seek another Star to share my sky
with me."

"Have you faith and will you obey?" asked the Double again. "For without faith I can do nothing."

Now Asti looked at Tua who bowed her head in assent to an unspoken question, then she answered:

"We have faith, we will obey."

"So be it," said the Shadow. "Presently Abi will come to ask whether the Queen consents to
be his wife, or whether she will bide here until she dies. I who wear the fashion of the Queen
will go forth and be his wife, oh! such a wife as man never had before," and as she spoke the
words an awful look swept across her face, and her deep eyes flamed. "Ill goes it with the
mortal man who weds a wraith that hates him and is commanded to work his woe," she added.

Now Asti and Tua understood and smiled, then the Queen said:

"So you will sit in my seat, O Shadow, and as your lord, Abi will sit on Pharaoh's throne and
find it hard. Of the articles are too much, the stay too bad,
yet my desire too great to entrust some of the papers. By collapsing Night we arrived, and it is now
time to seek peace.

St. Agata, 24 February 1787

In a cold chamber type of message I have a nice day. When we made Fondi went out, it was very
bright, and we were immediately over the walls of hanged by the Oranges on both sides of the
road welcomed. The trees are so full, as it's located only be imagined.

So above the young foliage is yellow, but below and in the middle of the juiciest green. Mignon
was right to long for meaning.

Then we drove by well-ordered and plowed wheat fields with spaces
in decorous Olive planted.

The wind moved it and took the silver Unterflaeche of leaves to light, the branches bend easily
and gracefully. It was a gray morning, a strong North wind promised to expel all the clouds completely.

Then
pulled out of the way in the stony valley, between, but well-built fields, planting the seeds
of most beautiful green. In some places you could see spacious, round, paved squares, with
low Low wall surrounded, here is the fruit of threshed immediately
after without them in sheaves home to drive.

The valley became narrower, the road went uphill, stood naked limestone rocks on both Pages.
The storm was violent after us. There were snow pellets, thawed very slowly.

Some walls of ancient buildings surprised with reticulated work to do. are at the height the rocky places,
but planted with olive trees, where they take up only the slightest ground could. Well over a
plain with olives, then through a small town.

Walled found We now altars, ancient grave stones, fragments of all kinds in the Gartenumfriedigungen,
then excellent masonry, but now with the ground completed basements of old farmhouses, now of Olivenwaeldchen
covered. Then we saw Mount Vesuvius, a smoke cloud on his head.

Mola di Gaeta greeted us again with the most sour orange trees. We stayed a few Hours. The bay in
front of the town granted the most beautiful views, the sea RINSING
up approach.

The eye follows the right bank and it recently reached the end of the half-horn Moon, we see a
rock on the fortress of Gaeta in moderate distance. The left horn extends much further, until you
see a mountain range, then the Vesuvius, then the islands. Ischia is located almost opposite
the middle.

Here I found on the shore the first sea stars and sea urchins ausgespuelt. A nice green leaf, as
the finest vellum, but strangely attachment: Most often, the habitual Then limestone, but also
serpentine, jasper, quartz, Kieselbreccien, granite, porphyry, Marbles, glass of a green and
blue. The latter rock types are difficult produced in this area are probably rubble of old buildings,
and so we see, as the wave is allowed to play before our eyes with the glories of old. We stayed happy
and had our pleasure in the nature of the people who were almost
as savages.

Remove from Mola yourself, you have always nice view, even if the sea loses. The last look at it is
a lovely lake cove, which was drawn. This is followed by good fruit box fenced with aloes. We saw
a water pipe that extends from the mountains' her to unrecognizable, tangled ruins pulled.

Then follows the crossing of the Garigliano river. Then you walk through rather fruitful Areas on a
mountain 'going on. Nothing remarkable. Finally, the first volcanic Aschenhuegel. This is
where a large, beautiful area of ​​mountains and due to issues over
which last snow summit excellent.

At the height sew a long, probably falling into the eyes of the city.

In the valley is St. Agatha, a handsome inn, where a brisk fire in a fireplace, as the Cabinet
applied is burned. However, our room is cold, no windows, only stores, and I rush to close.

Naples,
25 February 1787

Finally arrived here happy and with good omens. From the day's only so much: St. Agatha, we
left at sunrise, the wind was blowing behind us, North East and this continued throughout the
day. Only that afternoon he was lord of the clouds, we were suffering from cold.

Our road and over again by volcanic hills, where I only a few limestone believed to notice.
At last we reached the plains of Capua, Capua itself soon after, where we had lunch. Afternoon
did a nice, flat area in front of us. The road goes wide by between green fields of wheat, the
wheat is like a carpet and probably high margin.

Poplars are planted in rows in the fields, and highly branched out
hinangezogen wine.

So it goes in to Naples. A clear, wonderfully loose soil and worked well. The Vinyard of unusual
strength and height, the vines were networks of poplar to poplar floating.

Vesuvius. Drawing by Goethe

Vesuvius us was always to the left side, by force steaming and I was quiet for me pleased that I
finally saw the strange object with his eyes. The sky was always clarify and finally the sun
was quite hot in our close rolling home. In very clean bright atmosphere we approached Naples, and
now we found ourselves in a truly other country. The buildings with flat roofs point to a different
sky area inside May you not be very friendly. Everything is on the street, sitting in the
sun so long will they seem.

The Neapolitan believes to be in possession of Paradise, and has received the northern countries,
a very sad expression, "Sempre neve, case di legno, gran ignoranza,
danari ma assai.

"Such an image they have of our state. edification to all German
tribes of this landmark translated: "More snow, wooden Houses, great
ignorance, but enough money.

"

Naples itself promises to be happy and free and lively, many people confuse race, the king is
out hunting, the queen of good hope, and so it can not go better.

Naples, Monday, 26 February.

"Alla Locanda del Sgr. Moriconi al Largo del Castello. In this serene as magnificent as sounding
words we would letters from all four parts of the world find now. In the area of ​​the sea lying big
castle stretches a large widening of the one, though surrounded on
all four sides with houses, not space, but width (largo) has called,
probably, from the early days ago that this or any unlimited Field
was.

Here, enters on one side of a large corner house, and we took the foot Corner Room in a spacious,
of a free and happy about moving view over the ever- Total area granted. An iron balcony extends
outward past several windows, even around the corner out. You would not get away like this, when
the sharp wind is not extremely noticeable would be.

The room is cheerfully decorated, especially the ceiling, whose arabesques in a hundred departments
already proclaim the closeness of Pompeii and Herculaneum. This would be all well and good,
but no Feuerstaette, no chimney is remarkable, and the February preliminary proceedings for
but here his rights. I longed for some warming.

They brought me a three foot from the earth in such elevated, that the hands comfortably could
hold over it.

On the same a flat basin was fixed, this contained all delicate glowing coals, even plain with ash covered.
There must now be economical, as We learned it in Rome already. With the ear of a key is withdrawn
from time to time superficial ash carefully away so that the coals of something getting to the free
air. If one wanted to stir the embers, however, impatient, so you would for a moment bigger
Feel warmth, but very soon the whole glow have exhausted, as because the pool again to fill
against payment of a certain sum would be.

I was not quite well and certainly would have wished more convenience. A reed mat served against the influences
of the screed; furs are not usual, and I decided me, a sailor cowl, which we had taken as a
joke to put on, to me good service provided, especially after I had it fixed with a suitcase
trick to the abdomen because I than as something between a sailor and Capuchins had found very
funny. Table leg, returning from visiting friends, could not restrain her laughter.

Naples, 27 February 1787

Yesterday I spent the day in peace, a little physical discomfort only to be seen Today was indulged
and spent time with the most magnificent view belongings. They say, tell, paint what you want
is here more than anything.

The shores, bays and Breast of the sea, Vesuvius, the city, the suburbs,
the forts, the Lustraeume - We are also gone in the evening in the
grotto of Posilipo, just as the setting sun to the other Page shone.

I forgive all who come to Naples senses, and remembered with emotion, my father, who left an indelible
impression especially where foreign objects, I saw today for the first time, had received.
And as they say, that one, where a ghost appeared not to be happy again, so you could conversely
say of him that he never quite was unhappy because he always thought to Naples. I am now to I'm
just kind of still and when it gets too great, big, big eyes.

Naples, 28 Februar 1787th

Today we visited Philipp Hackert, the famous
landscape painter, of a special trust, an exquisite grace of the king
and the queen enjoys.

He has been a wing the palace Villa Franca admitted that he had to furnish Kuenstlergeschmack and
Satisfaction inhabited. It is a very specific, smart man, with the continual hard work enjoying
life goes.

Then we went to the sea, and saw all kinds of fish and whimsical characters from the waves . Draw
The day was glorious, the Tramontane tolerable.

Naples, 1 March.

Even in Rome it was my stubborn hermit sense more than I liked, a social Page reclaimed. Certainly
it seems a strange start that you walk into the world, to want to
be alone.

Thus I had also not resist the princes of Waldeck , Can the most friendly and invited me by my
rank and influence participation in many Good procured. As soon as we arrived in Naples, where
he had already stayed for a time, as he had invited us to take with him a trip to Pozzuoli
and the adjacent area. I'm already on the Vesuvius, table leg, but that forced me to ride that, in
and for himself agreeable, at the most beautiful weather in the company
of so perfect and taught For most very much pleasure and benefit promises.

We too have been in Rome a beautiful Dame seen, inseparable, with
her husband of the princes, which is also of be the lot, and it hopes
all pleasing.

I am also of this noble company earlier conversation accurately known. The Fuerst namely asked at
our first acquaintance with which I am now Pursuing, and my "Iphigenia" was so present that I
tell an evening inconvenient enough could. It was received on it, but I did think to remember that
something more lively, wilder was expected of me.

Evening.

From this day would be difficult to give an account. If you have not learned that the volatile
reading a book, it irresistible tore away at his life the greatest
influence and had already decided the effect earnest to re-read and
Consider the interference of little consequence in anymore.

So it went with me once "Sakontala" and , things are not the same as with important people? A
water ride to Pozzuoli, light Land trips, serene walks through the most wonderful country in
the world. Under pure Sky of the most unstable ground. Rubble unthinkable Wohlhaebigkeit, zerlaestert
and unpleasant. Boiling water, exhaling sulfur pits, the plant life resisting slag mountains,
bald, nasty spaces and then at last a more lush vegetation, invasive, where only some can, about
everything kills rising to around lakes and streams, yes, the finest
oak wood on the walls of an ancient crater claiming.

And it will be between nature - and Voelkerereignissen driven to and
fro.

One wishes to think and feels awkward to do.

Meanwhile, the living lives away, and what We are also missing because it did not. Educated
people, the world and its creatures were Members but, warned by serious skill, applied to observations.
Unlimited views by land, sea and sky, had been recalled in the vicinity of an amiable young lady,
Homage to accept usual and tilted.

In all this frenzy, but I did not fail to note some things. On future editorial will be used on
site map and a table leg by volatile drawing the best Help there be, and today I is not possible
to add even the slightest.

2nd March

I climbed Mount Vesuvius, although in cloudy weather and clouded summit. Get driving ' I for
Resina, then go up the mountain on a mule between vineyards and now on foot over the lava from
the year seventy-one, which already produces fine, but firm on the
moss had, then her on the side of the lava.

The cabin of the hermit I had left on the Height.

Furthermore, the ash hill, which is a sour work. Two-thirds of this Summit were covered with
clouds. At last we reached the old crater now completed, found the new lavas two months fourteen
days, even a low of five days now cold.

We climbed up over them in a first raised by volcanic hills, he steaming from all sides. The
smoke drifted away from us, and I wanted to go after the crater. There were about fifty paces
in the steam in, as he was so strong that I hardly could see my shoes. The handkerchief held nothing
helped, the guide was me disappeared, the steps to the ejected Lavabroeckchen uncertain, I thought
fit, I turn around and the required sight on a cheerful day and reduced to smoke . Save However,
I know but also how bad it gets in such atmosphere breath.

The crater of Vesuvius. Etching after Fabris

by the way the mountain was silent.

Neither fire nor showers nor stone's throw, but he drove her all the time. I have it now reconnoitred
to him formally as soon as the weather wants to be good siege.

The lavas, which I found were my most familiar objects. A phenomenon have I but discovered that
seemed to me very strangely and I examine part, after which I I will check with connoisseurs
and collectors. It is a clothing tropfsteinfoermige a volcanic forge, which was formerly zugewoelbt, but
now is opened and the old now completed crater stands out. This solid, grayish, tropfsteinfoermige
rock seems me by sublimation of the finest volcanic exhalations without
the participation of moisture and without fusion to be formed, and
there is opportunity for further thought.

Today, the third of March, covered the sky and a Scirocco blows, to the post days of good weather.

Very
mixed people, beautiful horses and wonderful fish I have already incidentally seen enough.

From the location of the city and its glories, which are so often
described and praised, not Word.

"Vedi Napoli e poi muori!" say it here. "See Naples and die!"

Naples, 3 March.

That will differ by no Neapolitan his city, that the poets of the bliss sing the local position in
massive hyperbole is not to blame them, though were still a couple of Vesuvius in the neighborhood.
You may remember back to Rome not here; against the local free comes a situation the capital
of the world in the Tiber basically like an old, uebelplaciertes monastery before.

The sea - and sea creatures also granted new states. The frigate went to Palermo with clean,
strong Tramontane from yesterday. This time she has certainly not over thirty-six Spent hours
on the trip. With what longing I looked at the full sails, as ship between Capri and Cape Minerva
transit and finally disappeared. If one person Beloved recipients considered to proceed in such
a way would have to die before you desire! Now, the Scirocco blows; when the wind is stronger,
the waves are fun at the Molo enough.

Today, as on a Friday, was the big ride of the nobility, where everyone's carriages, especially
horses, are produced.

It is impossible to see anything more graceful than these creatures Here, it is the first time
in my life that my heart rises against it.

Naples, 3 March.

Here I send some urged leaves as news of the acquisition, which I
present here.

Also at the corner of your envelope angeschmauchtes last letter to the witness that he been
on the Vesuvius. But must I not, either in dreams or in waking, from risk surrounded appear, be
assured, there where I go, no more risk than on the road to Belvedere. The earth is the Lord's
everywhere! can be said on this occasion. I'm not looking for adventure or curiosity strangeness,
but because I'm mostly clear and the subject soon abgewinne his owner, I can dare to do, and
as a other. Sicily's is nothing short of dangerous. A few days ago drove the frigate to Palermo
with a favorable wind from the northeast, she had the right and Capri has certainly the way in
thirty-six hours back down. Over There, it does not look like in reality from dangerous than
we liked to do it in the distance.

The earthquake is now felt in parts of Italy nothing lower, was recently
in the upper Rimini and nearby places damaged.

It has strange whims, of which we speak here such as wind and weather, and in Thuringia from
fires.

I am pleased that you now with the new arrangement of "Iphigenia"
you friends, even better would be me if you would be the difference
became palpable.

I know what I mind have done, and must talk about it because I could
still carry on.

If it is a joy is to enjoy the good, so it's a bigger, the better to feel, and in the Art is the best
is good enough.

Naples, 5 March.

The second Sunday of Lent, we used to walk from church to church. Like everything in Rome hoechst
seriously, so driving here all happy and cheerful. The Neapolitan School of painting one sees
only in Naples. Here you can see with amazement the whole front a church from top to bottom painted,
over the door Christ, the buyers and sellers drives out of the temple, which scared the two sides, cheerful
and petite, the stairs tumble down. Within another church in the area is above the entrance rich
Freskogemaelde adorned with the expulsion of Heliodorus imagining. Luca Giordano had to hurry,
however, are to perform such areas. The pulpit is not always as otherwise running a desk, chair
for a single person, but a gallery, on which I am a Capuchin stride
back and forth and sometimes by one, sometimes from the other end
hold the people of their sinfulness saw.

What was there not to tell everything!

But to tell not to be described is the glory of a full moon night, as we they enjoyed walking
through the streets over the places where Chiaja, the immense Then walk on the seashore to and fro.
It takes a real sense of infinity of space. Thus, to dream for but worth the trouble.
Naples, 5 March 1787th

From an excellent man, whom I got to know
these days, I have recently the most general . Mention It is a Knight
Filangieri, known for his work on the legislation. He heard the venerable
young men, which the happiness of the people and a commendable freedom
the same in mind. At his conduct can the soldier, the knight and man
of the world Recognize, however, is mitigated by the expression of
decency of a delicate moral sense, which, over the whole person spread
out lights, made of words and even graceful beings. Nor is he to his
king and his kingdom allies in the heart, although he did not all
approved of what happens, but he is pressured by the fear Joseph the
Second. The image of a despot, if it is suspended only in the air,
noble people already terribly. He spoke to me frankly what Naples
has to fear from that. He keeps himself happy about Montesquieu, Beccaria,
and his own writings, all in the same spirit the best will and a warm
youthful desire to do good. He may still are in the thirties.

Very
soon he introduced me to an old writer, at its deepest, Depth refresh
this modern Italian law and friends greatly built, it is called Johann
Baptista Vico, she pulled out before Montesquieu. In a volatile survey
of the book, she told me as a sanctuary, I would seem, here are sibylline
Premonitions of good and right, that is to come once, or should, based
on serious Views of tradition and life.

Glorious she looked indeed, a figure of flame set in the midst of darkness. The royal robe
she wore glittered in the sunlight, glittered her sceptre, her jewels, and the uræi on her
Double Crown, but more than all of them glittered her fierce and splendid eyes. Indeed, there
was something so terrible in those eyes that the beholders who discovered them thus suddenly,
shrank back, whispering to each other that here sat a goddess, not a woman. For in her calmness,
her proud beauty and her silence, she seemed like an immortal, one victorious who had triumphed
over death, not a woman who for seven days had starved within a tower.

They shrank back, they huddled themselves together in the doorway, and there remained whispering
till the growing light fell on them also. But the figure on the throne took no heed, only stared
over their heads as though it were lost in mystery and thought.

At length Kaku, gathering courage, said to Abi:

"O Prince, there is your bride, such a bride as never man had before. Go now and take her,"
and all the others echoed:

"Go now, O Prince, and take her."

Thus adjured for very shame's sake Abi advanced, looking often behind him, till he came to
the foot of the throne, and stood there bowing.

For a long while he stood bowing thus, till he grew weary indeed, for he knew not what to say.
Then suddenly a clear and silvery voice spoke above him, asking:

"What do you here, Lord of Memphis? Why are you not in the cell where Pharaoh bound you? Oh!
I remember--the footstool-bearer, Merytra, your paid spy, let you out, did she not? Why is
she not here with Kaku the Sorcerer, who fashioned the enchanted image that did Pharaoh to
death? Is it because she stays to doctor those false lips of hers that were cut last night
before you went to ask yonder Kaku to interpret a certain dream which came to you?"

"How did you learn these things? Have you spies in my palace, O Queen?"

"Yes, my uncle, I have spies in your palace and everywhere. What Amen sees his daughter knows.
Now you have come to lead me away to be your wife, have you not? Well, I await you, I am ready.
Do it if you dare!"

"If I dare? Why should I not dare, O Queen?" asked Abi in a doubtful voice.

"Surely that question is one for you to answer, Count of Memphis and its subject nomes. Yet
tell me this--why did the magic crystal burst asunder without cause in the chamber of Kaku
last night, and why do you suppose that Kaku interpreted to you all the meaning of your dream--he
who will never tell the truth unless it be beneath the rods?"

"I do not know, Queen," answered Abi, "but with Kaku I can speak later, if need be after the
fashion you suggest," and he glanced at the magician wrathfully.

"No, Prince Abi, you know nothing, and Kaku knows nothing, save that rods break the backs of
snakes, unless they can find a wall to hide in," and she pointed to the astrologer slinking
back into the shadow. "No one knows anything save me, to whom Amen gives wisdom with sight
of the future, and what I know I keep. Were it otherwise, O Abi, I could tell you things that
would turn your grey hair white, and to Kaku and Merytra the spy, promise rewards that would
make the torture-chamber seem a bed of down. But it is not lawful, nor would they sound pleasant
in this bridal hour."

Now while Kaku between his chattering teeth muttered the words of Protection in the shadow,
Abi and his courtiers stared at this terrible queen as boys seeking wild fowls' eggs in the
reeds, and stumbling on a lion, stare ere they fly. Twice, indeed, the Prince turned looking
towards the door and the pleasant light without, for it seemed to him that he was entering
on a dark and doubtful road. Then he said:

"Your words, O Queen, cut like a two-edged sword, and methinks they leave a poison in the wound.
Say now, if you are human, how it comes about that after seven days of want your flesh is not
minished nor has your beauty waned. Say also who brought to you those glorious robes you wear
here in this empty temple, and where is your foster-mother, Asti?"

"The gods fed me," answered the Queen gently, "and brought me these robes that I might seem
the more worthy of you, O Prince. And as for Asti, I sent her to Cyprus to fetch a scent they
make there and nowhere else. No, I forgot, it was yesterday she went to bring the scent from
Cyprus that now is on my hair; to-day she is in Thebes, seeing to a business of mine. That
is no secret, I will tell it you--it is as to the carving of all the history of his murder
and betrayal in the first chamber of the Pharaoh's tomb."

Now at these magical and ill-omened words the courage of the company left them, so that they
began to walk backwards towards the door, Abi going with them.

"What!" cried the Queen in a voice of sorrow that yet seemed laden with mockery. "Would you
leave me here alone? Do my power and my wisdom frighten you? Alas! I cannot help them, for
when the full vase is tilted the wine will run out, and when light is set behind alabaster,
then the white stone must shine. Yet am I one meet to adorn the palace of the King, even such
a king as you shall be, O Abi, whom Osiris loves. See, now, I will dance and sing to you as
once I sang to the Prince of Kesh before the sword of Rames took away his life, so that you
may judge of me, Abi, you, who have looked upon so many lovely women."

As she spoke, very slowly, so slowly that they could scarcely see her move, she glided from
the throne, and standing before them, began to move her feet and body, and to chant a song.

What were the words of that song none could ever remember, but to every man there present it
opened a door in his heart, and brought back the knowledge of youth. She whom he had loved
best danced before him, her tender hands caressed him; the words she sang were sighs which
the dead had whispered in his ears. Even to Abi, old, unwieldy and steeped in cunning, these
soft visions came, although it is true that it seemed to him that this lovely singer led him
to a precipice, and that when she ceased her song and appeared to vanish, to seek her he leapt
into the clouds that rushed beneath.

Now the dance was done, and the last echoes of the music died away against the ancient walls
whence the images of Sekhet the cat-headed watched them with her cruel smile of vengeance.
The dance was done, and the beautiful dancer stood before them unflushed, unheated, but laughing
gently.

"Now go, divine Prince," she said, "and you his followers, go, all of you, and leave me to
my lonely house, until Pharaoh sends for me to share that new realm which he inherits beyond
the West."

But they would not go and could not if they would, for some power bound them to her, while,
as for Abi he scarce could take his eyes from her, but heedless of who heard them, babbled
out his passion at her feet, while the rest glowered on him jealously. She listened always
smiling that same smile that was so sweet, yet so inhuman. Then when he stopped exhausted,
at last she spoke, saying:

"What! do you love now more greatly than you fear, as the divine Prince of Kesh loved after
Amen's Star had sung to him. May your fate be happier, O noble Abi, but that, since it is not
lawful that I should tell it to you, you shall discover. Abi, there shall be a royal marriage
in Memphis of such joy and feasting as has not been known in the history of the Northern or
the Southern Land, and for your allotted span you shall sit by the side of Egypt's Queen and
shine in her light. Have you not earned the place by right of blood, O conqueror of Pharaoh,
and did not Pharaoh promise it to you in your sleep? Come, the sun of this new day shines,
let us walk in it, and bid farewell to shadows."

CHAPTER XII

THE ROYAL MARRIAGE

A strange rumour ran through Memphis. It was said that the Queen had yielded; it was said that
she would marry the Prince Abi, that she was already at the great White House waiting to be
made a bride. Men wrangled about in the streets. They swore that it could not be true, for
would this high lady, the anointed Pharaoh of Egypt, take her father's murderer, and her own
uncle to husband? Would she not rather die in her prison tower on which night by night they
had seen her stand and sing? In their hearts they thought that she should die, for thus they
had summed her up, this pure, high-hearted daughter of Amen, whom Fate had caught in an evil
net. Yes, being men they held that she ought to die, and leave a story in the world, whereof
Egypt could be proud for ever.

But their wives and daughters mocked at them. After all she was but a woman, they argued, and
was it likely that she would throw aside the pomp of rule and the prospect of long years in
order to steal away into the shadows of a forgotten tomb? Henceforth, it was true, she must
take second place, for Abi would be a stern master to her. Still, any place was better than
a funeral barge. She had felt the pinch of hunger yonder in that old temple; her fierce spirit
had been tamed; she had kissed the rod, and after long years of waiting, Abi would be Pharaoh
in Egypt.

The dispute grew hot, for even those men who rebelled against her, in their hearts had set
her high, and grieved to think of her, the divine Lady, bowing her neck to the common yoke
of circumstance, and selling herself for safety, and a seat on the steps of her own throne.
But the women mocked on, and showed them that as they had always said, she was no better than
others of her sex.

Presently the matter was settled, for heralds appeared crying throughout the city that the
marriage would take place in the great hall of the White House one hour before sundown. Then
the women laughed in triumph, and the men were silent.

It was the appointed hour, and that hall was filled to overflowing by all who could gain entrance
there. Between the towering obelisks that stood on either side the open cedar doors, folk hung
upon its steps like hiving bees; the vast square without and all the streets that led to it
were black with them. Here, it is true, they could see nothing, still they fought for the merest
foothold, and some of those who fell never rose again. At the head of the hall were set two
thrones, the greater and the richer throne for Abi the Prince, the lesser throne for Neter-Tua
the Queen. He had arranged it thus since Kaku the cunning pointed out to him that from the
first he should show the people that it was he who ruled, and not Pharaoh's daughter.

It was the appointed hour, and at some signal from every temple top rang out the blare of trumpets.
Thrice they sounded, and echoed into silence in that hot, still air, thus announcing that in
the temple of Hathor, and the presence of the priests of all the gods, the hands of Abi and
Neter-Tua had been joined in marriage.

Another rumour began to run among the crowd; like the ring set circling by a stone in water
it spread from mouth to mouth, ever widening as it went.

Marvels had happened in the temple of Hathor, that was the rumour. Moreover it gave details:
that the High-Priest had handed to the bride the accustomed lotus-bud, the flower of the goddess,
and lo! it opened in her hand. Also, it was said, that presently the stem of it turned to a
sceptre of gold, and the cup of the bloom to sapphire stones more perfect far than any from
the desert mines.

Nor was this all, so went the tale, for when, as he must, the bridegroom Abi offered the white
dove to Hathor in her shrine, a hawk swept through the doorway and smote it in his very hand.
Yes, there in the gloom of the shrine smote it and left it dead, blood running from its beak
and breast, dead upon the knees of the goddess; left it and was gone again!

Now what hawk, asked the people of each other, dare such a deed as this, unless in truth it
was sent by the hawk-headed Horus, the son of Amen-Ra.

Soon these matters were forgotten for the moment, since now it was known that the royal pair
were entering the great White Hall, there to show themselves to the people, and receive the
homage of the nobles, chiefs, and captains. First, advancing by the covered way which led from
the temple of Hathor, appeared the priests in their robes, chanting as they walked, followed
by the masters of ceremonies, butlers, and heralds. Next, surrounded by his officers and guard,
came the Prince Abi himself, accompanied by his vizier, Kaku, he whose magic was said to have
brought Pharaoh to his end.

Not all his pomp nor the splendour of his apparel, whereof the whiteness, as many noted, was
spotted with ill-omened blood, nor even the royal crown which now, for the first time, was
set upon his huge, round head, could hide from those who watched that this bridegroom was ill
at ease. Even as he stood there, bowing in answer to the obsequious shouts of the multitude,
the sceptre in his fat hand shook, and his red lips blanched and trembled. Still he smiled
and bowed on, till at length the shouting died away, and quiet fell upon the place.

Abi was forgotten, they waited the coming of the Queen, and though no herald called her advent,
yet every heart of all those thousands felt that she drew near to them. Look! Yonder she stood.
They had watched closely enough, yet none saw her come, doubtless because the shadows were
thick. But there she stood, quite alone upon the edge of the dais in front of the two thrones,
and, oh! she was different from what they had expected. Thus now she wore no gorgeous robes,
but only a simple garment of purest white, cut low upon her bosom, where the red rays of the
sinking sun, striking up the hall, revealed to every eye that dark mole shaped like the Cross
of Life, which was her wondrous birthmark. But two ornaments adorned her, the double snakes
of royalty, golden with red eyes, set in front of her tall white head-dress, which none but
she might wear, the crowns of Upper and of Lower Egypt, and of all the subject lands, and in
her hand a sceptre fashioned of gold, and surmounted by a lotus-bloom of sapphire, that sceptre
of which rumour had told the magic tale.

Yes, she was different. They had thought to see a woman weak and pale, her eyes still red with
grief, her face still stained with tears, one who had been tamed by misfortune, hunger, and
the fear of death, whence she had bought herself by marriage with her conqueror. But it was
not so, for never had the Star of Amen shone half so beautiful, never had they seen such majesty
in those deep blue eyes that looked them through and through as though they read the secret
heart of every one of them. Her tall and lovely form had not wasted, her cheeks were red with
the glow of health; power and dignity flowed from her presence, fear seemed beneath her feet.

Now no voice was lifted up; they stared at her, and, smiling a little, she answered them with
her calm eyes till their heads sank beneath her gaze. Then at length in the midst of that dead,
oppressive silence which none dared to break, she turned, and they heard the sweep of her silken
robe upon the alabaster floor.

With an effort two chamberlains stepped forward, their wands of office in their hands, to lead
her to her seat, but she waved them back, and said in her clear voice:

"Nay, here I am alone; of all the millions who serve her, not one is left to lead Amen's daughter
and Egypt's Queen to her rightful place. Therefore she takes it of her own strength, now and
for evermore."

Then very slowly, still in the midst of silence, she mounted the greater throne that had been
prepared for Abi, and there seated herself and waited.

Now murmuring rose among the courtiers and Kaku whispered into Abi's ear, while the multitude
held its breath. Abi stamped his foot and issued orders which all seemed to fear to execute.
At length he stepped forward, addressing the Queen in a hoarse voice.

"Lady," he said, "doubtless you know it not, but that place is mine; your seat is on my left.
Be pleased to take it."

"Why so, Prince Abi?" she asked quietly.

"Lady," he answered, "because the husband takes precedence of the wife, and," he added with
savage meaning, "the conqueror of the conquered."

"The conqueror of the conquered?" she repeated after him in a musing voice. "Should you not
have said--the murderer of the murdered and his seed? Nay, Prince Abi, you are wrong. The sovereign
of Egypt by right divine, takes precedence of her vassal, even though it has pleased the gods,
whose will she has come to execute, to command her to give to him the name of husband until
that will is more fully known. Come now and do homage to your Queen, and after you those slaves
of yours who dared to lift the sword against her."

Then a great tumult arose, a tumult of rage and of dismay, for well nigh all in that vast place
were partners in this crime, and knew that if Neter-Tua prevailed death yawned wide for them.

They shouted to Abi to take no heed of her. They shouted to him to tear her from the throne,
to kill her, and seize the crown. They drew their swords and raged like an angry sea. Those
who were loyal among them to Pharaoh's House, and those who feared turmoil, began to work their
way backwards, and slipped by twos and threes out of the great open doors, till Tua had no
friend left in all that hall. But ever as they went, others of the turbulent and the rebellious
who had been concerned in the slaughter of Pharaoh's guard, took their place, pouring in from
the mob without.

Wild desert-dwellers of the Bedouin tribes, who for thousands of years had been the bitter
enemies of Egypt; descendants of the Hyksos, whose forefathers had ruled the land for a dozen
generations, and at last been driven out; those Hyksos whose blood ran in Abi's veins, and
who looked to him to lift them up again; evil-doers who had sought shelter in his regiments;
hook-nosed Semites from the Lebanon; black, barbarian savages from the shores of Punt--with
such as these was that hall filled.

Abi was the hope of every one of them; to him they looked for the spoils of Egypt, and before
them on Abi's throne they saw a woman who stood between them and their ends, who in her ancient
pride dared to demand that he, her husband, should do homage to her, and who to-morrow, if
she conquered, would give them to the sword.

"Tear her to pieces!" they screamed, "the bastard whom childless Pharaoh palmed off upon the
land! She is a sorceress who keeps fat on air--an evil spirit. Away with her! Or if you fear,
then let us come!"

At length they had roared themselves hoarse; at length they grew still. Then Abi, who all this
while had stood there hesitating, and now and again turning to hearken to Kaku who whispered
in his ear, looked up at Tua and spoke.

"You see and you hear, Queen," he said. "My people mistrust you, and they are a rough people,
I cannot hold them back for long. If once they get at you, very soon that sweet body of yours
will be in more fragments than was Osiris after Set had handled him."

Now Tua, who hitherto had sat still and indifferent, like one who takes no heed, seemed to
awake, and answered:

"A bad example, Prince, for Osiris rose again, did he not?" Then she leaned back and once more
was silent.

"Do you still desire that I should do homage to you, Queen, I, your husband?" he asked presently.

"Why not?" she replied. "I have spoken. A decree of Pharaoh may not be changed, and though
a woman, I am--Pharaoh."

Now Abi went white with rage, and turned to his guard to bid them drag her from the throne.
But she who was watching him, suddenly lifted her sceptre and spoke in a new voice, a clear,
strong voice that rang through the hall, and even reached those who were gathered on the steps
without.

"There is a question between you and me, O People," she said, "and it is this--Shall I, your
Queen, rule in Egypt, as my fathers ruled, or shall yonder man rule whom by the decree of Amen
I have taken for husband? Now you who for the most part have the Hyksos blood running in your
veins, as he has, desire that he should rule, and you have slain the good god, my father, and
would make Abi king over you, and see me his handmaid, one to give him children of my royal
race, no more. See, you are a multitude and my legions are far away, and I--I am alone, one
lamb among the jackals, thousands and thousands of jackals who for a long while have been hungry.
How, then, shall I match myself against you?"

"You cannot," shouted a wild-eyed spokesman. "Come down, lamb, and kneel before the lion, Abi,
or we, the jackals, will rend you. We will not acknowledge you, we who are of the fierce Hyksos
blood. While the obelisks stand that were set up by the great Hyksos Pharaoh whose descendant
was Abi's mother, while the obelisks stand that are set there for all eternity, we will not
acknowledge you. Come down and take your place in our lord's harem, O Pharaoh's bastard daughter."

"Ah!" Tua repeated after him, "while the obelisks stand that the Hyksos thief set up you will
not acknowledge me, Pharaoh's bastard daughter!"

Then she paused and seemed to grow disturbed; she sighed, wrung her hands a little, and said
in a choking voice:

"I am but one woman alone among you. My father, Pharaoh, is dead, and you bid me lay down my
rank and henceforth rule only through him who trapped Pharaoh and brought him to his end. What,
then, can I do?"

"Be a good maid and obey your husband, Bastard," mocked a voice, and during the roar of laughter
that followed Tua looked at the speaker, an officer of Abi's, who had taken a great part in
the slaughter of their escort.

Very strangely she looked at him, and those who stood by the man noted that his lips became
white, and that he turned so faint that had it not been for the press about him he would have
fallen. Presently he seemed to recover, and asked the priests who were near to let him join
their circle, as among the outer throng the heat was too great for him to bear. Thereon one
of them nodded and made room for him, and he passed in, which Tua noted also.

Now she was speaking again.

"Ill names to throw at Egypt's anointed queen, crowned and accepted by the god himself in the
sanctuary of his most holy temple," she said, her eyes still resting on the brutal soldier.
"Yet it is your hour, and she must bear them who has no friends in Memphis. Oh! what shall
I do?" and again she wrung her hands. "Good People, it was sworn to me that Amen, greatest
of the gods, set his spirit within me when I was born, and vowed that he would help me in the
hour of my need. Of your grace, then, give me space to pray to Amen. Look," and she pointed
before her, "yonder sinks the red ball of the sun; soon, soon it will be gone--give me until
it enters the gateways of the West to pray to Amen, and then if no help comes I will bow me
to your bidding, and do homage to this noble Prince of the Hyksos blood, who snared Pharaoh
his brother, and by help of his magicians and of his spy, Merytra, brought him to his end."

"Yes, my people, give her the space she asks," called Abi, who feared nothing from Amen, a
somewhat remote personage, and was afraid lest some tumult should happen in the course of which
this lovely, new-made wife of his might be slain or injured.

So they gave her the space of time she asked. Standing up, Tua raised her arms and eyes towards
heaven, and began to pray aloud:

"Hear me, Amen my Father, in the House of thy Rest, as thou hast sworn to do. O Amen my Father,
thou seest my strait. Is it thy will that thy daughter should degrade herself and thee before
this man who slew his king and brother, to whom thou hast commanded her to give the name of
husband? If it be so, I will obey; but if it be not so, then show thy word by might or marvel,
and cause him and his folk who mock my majesty and name me bastard, to bow down before me.
O Amen, they deny thee in their hearts who worship other gods, as did the barbarians who begat
them and threw down thy shrines in Egypt, but I know that thou sentest me forth, and in thee
I put my trust, aye, even if thou slay me. Amen my Father, yonder sinks that glory in which
thou dost hide thy spirit. Now, ere it be gone and night falls upon the world, declare thyself
in such fashion that all men may know that indeed I am thy child; or if this be thy decree,
desert me and Egypt, and leave me to my shame."

She ended her prayer and, sinking back upon the throne, rested her chin upon her hand, and
gazed steadily upon the splendour of the sinking sun. Nor did she gaze alone, for every man
in that vast hall turned himself about, and stared at its departing glory. There in the red
light they stood, and stared, and since the place was open to the sky, the shadows of the two
towering obelisks without fell on them like the shadows of swords whereof the points met together
at the foot of Tua's throne. They did not believe that anything would happen, no, not even
the priests believed it who here at Memphis, the city of Ptah, thought little of Amen, the
god of Thebes. They thought that this piteous prayer was but a last cry of dying faith wrung
from a proud and fallen woman in her wretchedness.

And yet, and yet they stared, for she had spoken with a strange certainty like one who knew
the god, and was she not named Star of Amen, and were there not wondrous tales as to her birth,
and had not a lotus-bloom seemed to turn to gold and jewels in the hand of this young, anointed
Queen who bore the Cross of Life upon her breast? No, nothing would happen, but still they stared.

It was a very strange sunset. For days the heat had been great, but now it was fearful, also
a marvellous stillness reigned in heaven and earth. Nothing seemed to stir in all the city,
no dog barked, no child cried, no leaf quivered upon the tall palms; it might have been a city
of the dead.

Dense clouds arose upon the sky, and moved, though no wind blew. Where the sun's rays touched
them they were gold and red and purple, but above these of an inky blackness. They took strange
shapes those clouds, and marshalled themselves like a host gathering for battle. There were
the commanders moving quickly to and fro; there the chariots, and there the sullen lines of
footmen with their gleaming spears. Now one cloud higher than the rest seemed to shoot itself
across the arch of heaven, and its fashion was that of a woman with outspread hair of gold.
Her feet stood upon the sun, her body bent itself athwart the sky, and upon the far horizon
in the east her hands held the pale globe of the rising moon.

The watchers were frightened at this cloud. "It is Isis with the moon in her arms," said one.
"Nay, it is the mother goddess Nout brooding upon the world," answered another. And though
they only spoke softly, in that awful silence their voices reached Tua on the throne, and for
the first time her face changed, for on it came a cold, curious smile.

Kaku began to whisper into Abi's ear, and there was fear in the eyes of both of them. He pointed
with his finger at two stars, which of a sudden shone out through the green haze above the
sunset glow, and then turned and looked at the Queen, urging his master eagerly. At last Abi spoke.

"Ra is set," he said. "Come, let us make an end of all this folly."

"Not yet," answered Tua quietly, "not yet awhile."

As she said the words, of a sudden, as though at a given signal, all the long lines of palm
trees that grew in the rich gardens upon the river banks were seen to bow themselves towards
the east, as though they did obeisance to the Queen upon her throne. Thrice they bowed thus,
without a wind, and then were straight and still once more. Next the clouds rushed together
as though a black pall had been drawn across the heavens, only in the west the half-hidden
globe of the sun shone on through an opening in them, shone like a great and furious eye. By
slow degrees it sank, till nothing was left save a little rim of fire. All the hall grew dark,
and through the darkness Neter-Tua could be heard calling on the name of Amen.

"Ra is dead!" shouted a voice. "Have done, Bastard, Ra is dead!"

"Aye," she answered in a cold triumphant cry, "but Amen lives. Behold his sword, ye Traitors!"

As the words left her lips the heavens were cleft in twain by a fearful flash of lightning,
and in it the people saw that once again the palm-trees bowed themselves, this time almost
to the ground. Then with a roar the winds were loosed, and beneath their feet the solid earth
began to heave as though a giant lifted it. Thrice it heaved like a heaving wave, and the third
time through the thick cover of the darkness there rose a shriek of terror and of agony followed
by the awful crash of falling stones.

Now the whole sky seemed to melt in fire, and in that fierce light was seen Tua, Star of Amen,
seated on her throne, holding her sceptre to the heavens, and laughing in triumphant merriment.
Well might she laugh, for the two great obelisks without the gate that the old Hyksos lion
had set up there to stand "to all eternity," had fallen across the low pylons and the doors
and crushed them. On to the heads of those who watched beneath they had fallen, shattering
in their fall and carrying death to hundreds. Beneath the electrum cap of one of them that
had been hurled from it in its descent right into the circle of the priests, lay a shapeless
mass. It was that man who had mocked the Queen and turned faint beneath her gaze.

Through the western ruin of the hall those who were left alive within it fled out, a maddened
mob, trampling each other to death by scores, fighting furiously to escape the vengeance of
Amen and his daughter. Within the enclosure the priests lay prostrate on their faces, each
praying to his god for mercy. In front of the throne, upon his knees, the royal crown shaken
from his head, Abi grasped the feet of Neter-Tua and screamed to her to forgive and spare him,
whilst above, shining like fire, That which sat upon the throne pointed with her sceptre at
the ruin and the rout, and laughed and laughed again.

Soon all were gone save the mumbling priests, the dying, the dead, and Abi with his officers.

The clouds rolled off, the moon and the stars shone out, filling the place with gentle light.
Then Tua spoke, looking down at the wretched Abi who grovelled before her.

"Say, now, Husband," she asked, "who is god in Egypt?"

"Amen your father," he gasped.

"And who is Pharaoh in Egypt?"

"You, and no other, O Queen."

"Ah!" she said, "it was over that matter that we quarrelled, did we not? which forced me, whom
you thought so helpless, to find helpers. Look, there are their footsteps; they walk heavily,
do they not, my Uncle?" and she nodded towards the huge fragments of the broken obelisks.

He glanced behind him at his ruined hall, at the dying and the dead. "You are Pharaoh and no
other," he repeated with a shudder. "Give breath to your servant, and let him live on in your
shadow."

"The first is not mine to give," she answered coldly, "though perchance it may please Amen
to hold you back a little while from that place where you must settle your account with him
who went before me, and his companions who died in your streets. I hope so, for you have work
to do. As for the second--arise, you Priests and Officers, and see this Prince of yours do
homage to the Queen of Egypt."

They rose, and clung to each other trembling, for all the heart was out of them. Then she pointed
to her foot with the sceptre in her hand, and in their presence Abi knelt down and kissed her
sandal. After him followed the others, the priests, the captains, the head-stewards, and the
butlers, till at length came Kaku, the astrologer, who prostrated himself before her, trembling
in every limb. But him she would not suffer even to touch her sandals.

"Tell me," she said, drawing back her foot, "you who are a magician, and have studied the secret
writings, how does it chance that you still live on, when for lesser crimes so many lie here
dead, you who are stained with the blood of Pharaoh?"

Hearing these words from which he presaged the very worst, Kaku beat his head upon the ground,
babbling denials of this awful crime, and at the same time began to implore pardon for what
he said he had not committed.

"Cease," she exclaimed, "and learn that your life is spared for a while, yes, and even Merytra's.
Also you will retain your office of Vizier--for a while."

Now he began to pour out thanks, but she stopped him, saying:

"Thank me not, seeing that you do not know the end of this matter. Perchance it is hidden from
you lest you should go mad, you and your wife, Merytra, she who was the Pharaoh's Lady of the
Footstool, and sang him to sleep. Look at me, Wizard, and tell me, who am I?" and she bent
down over him.

He glanced up at her, and their eyes met, nor could he turn his head away again.

"Come," she said, "as you may have learned to-night, I also have some knowledge of the hidden
things. For otherwise, why did the earth shake and the everlasting pillars fall at my bidding?
Now, between two of a trade there should be no secrets, so I will tell you something that perhaps
you have already guessed, since I am sure that you will not repeat it even to your master or
to Merytra. For I will add this--that the moment you repeat it will be the moment of your death,
and the beginning of that punishment which here I withhold. Now, in the Name of the Eater-up
of Souls, listen to me, O fashioner of waxen images!" and, bending down, she whispered into
his ear.

Another instant, and, stark horror written on his face, the tall shape of Kaku was seen reeling
backward, like to a drunken man. Indeed, had not Abi caught him he would have fallen over the
edge of the dais.

"What did she tell you?" he muttered, for the Queen, who seemed to have forgotten all about
him, was looking the other way.

But, making no answer, Kaku wrenched himself free and fled the place.

CHAPTER XIII

ABI LEARNS THE TRUTH

A moon had gone by, and on the first day of the new month Kaku the Vizier sat in the Hall of
the Great Officers at Memphis, checking the public accounts of the city. It was not easy work,
for during the past ten days twice these accounts had been sent back to him by the command
of the Queen, or the Pharaoh as she called herself, with requests for information as to their
items, and other awkward queries. Abi had overlooked such matters, recognising that a faithful
servant was worthy of his hire--provided that he paid himself. But now it seemed that things
were different, and that the amount received was the exact amount that had to be handed over
to the Crown, neither more nor less. Well, there was a large discrepancy which must be made
up from somewhere, or, in other words, from Kaku's private store.

In a rage he caused the two head collectors of taxes to be brought before him, and as they
would not pay, bade the executioners throw them down and beat them on the feet until they promised
to produce the missing sums, most of which he himself had stolen.

Then, somewhat soothed, he retired from the hall into his own office, to find himself face
to face with Abi, who was waiting for him. So changed was the Prince from his old, portly self,
so aged and thin and miserable did he look, that in the dusk of that chamber Kaku failed to
recognise him. Thinking that he was some suppliant, he began to revile him and order him to
be gone. Then the fury of Abi broke out.

Rushing at him, he seized the astrologer by the beard and smote him on the ears, saying: "Dog,
is it thus that you speak to your king? Well, on you at least I can revenge myself."

"Pardon, your Majesty," said Kaku, "I did not know you in these shadows. Your Majesty is changed
of late."

"Changed!" said Abi, letting him go. "Who would not be changed who suffers as I do ever since
I listened to your cursed counsel, and tried to climb into the seat of Pharaoh? Before that
I was happy. I had my sons, I had my wives, as many as I wished. I had my revenues and armies.
Now everything has gone. My sons are dead, my women are driven away, my revenues are taken
from me, my armies serve another."

"At least," suggested Kaku, "you are Pharaoh, and the husband of the most beautiful and the
wisest woman in the world."

"Pharaoh!" groaned Abi. "The humblest mummy in the common city vaults is a greater king than
I am, and as for the rest----" and he stopped and groaned again.

"What is the matter with your Majesty?" asked Kaku.

"The matter is that I have fallen under the influence of an evil planet."

"The Star of Amen," suggested the astrologer.

"Yes, the Star of Amen, that lovely Terror whom you call my wife. Man, she is no wife to me.
Listen--there in the harem I went into the chamber where she was, none forbidding me, and found
her sitting before her mirror and singing, clothed only in a thin robe of white, and her dark
hair--O Kaku, never did you see such hair--which fell almost to the ground. She smiled on me,
she spoke me fair, she drew me with those glittering eyes of hers--yes, she even called me
husband, and sighed and talked of love, till at length I drew near to her and threw my arms
about her."

"And then----"

"And then, Kaku, she was gone, and where her sweet face should have been I saw the yellow,
mummied head of Pharaoh, he who is with Osiris, that seemed to grin at me. I opened my arms
again, and lo! there she sat, laughing and shaking perfume from her hair, asking me, too, what
ailed me that I turned so white, and if such were the way of husbands?

"Well, that was nigh a month ago, and as it began, so it has gone on. I seek my wife, and I
find the mummied head of Pharaoh, and all the while she mocks me. Nor may I see the others
any more, for she has caused them to be hunted hence, even those who have dwelt with me for
years, saying that she must rule alone."

"Is that all?" asked Kaku.

"No, indeed, for as she torments me, so she torments every other man who comes near to her.
She nets them with smiles, she bewitches them with her eyes till they go mad for love of her,
and then, still smiling, she sends them about their business. Already two of them who were
leaders in the great plot have died by their own hands, and another is mad, while the rest
have become my secret but my bitter foes, because they love my Queen and think that I stand
between her and them."

"Is that all?" asked Kaku again.

"No, not all, for my power is taken from me. I who was great, after Pharaoh the greatest in
all the land, now am but a slave. From morning to night I must work at tasks I hate; I must
build temples to Amen, I must dig canals, I must truckle to the common herd, and redress their
grievances and remit their taxes. More, I must chastise the Bedouin who have ever been my friends,
and--next month undertake a war against that King of Khita, with whom I made a secret treaty,
and whose daughter that I married has been sent back to him because I loved her."

"And then?" asked Kaku.

"Oh! then when the Khita have been destroyed and made subject to Egypt, then her Majesty purposes
to return in state to Thebes 'to attend to the fashioning of my sepulchre' since, so she says,
this is a matter that will not bear delay. Indeed, already she makes drawings for it, horrible
and mystic drawings that I cannot understand, and brings them to me to see. Moreover, Friend,
know this, out of it opens another smaller tomb for you. Indeed, but this morning she sent
an expedition to the desert quarries to bring thence three blocks of stone, one for my sarcophagus,
one for yours, and one for that of your wife, Merytra. For she says that after the old fashion
she purposes to honour both of you with these gifts."

At these words Kaku could no longer control himself, but began to walk up and down the room,
muttering and snatching at his beard.

"How can you suffer it?" he said at length, "You who were a great prince, to become a woman's
slave, to be made as dirt beneath her feet, to be held up to the mockery of those you rule,
to see your wives and household driven away from you, to be tormented, to be mocked, to look
on other men favoured before your eyes, to be threatened with early death. Oh! how can you
suffer it? Why do you not kill her, and make an end?"

"Because," answered Abi, "because I dare not, since if I dreamed of such a thing she would
guess my thought and kill me. Fool, do you not remember the fall of the eternal obelisks upon
my captains, and what befell that man who mocked her, calling her Bastard, and sought refuge
among the priests? No, I dare not lift a finger against her."

"Then, Prince, you must carry your yoke until it wears through to the marrow, which will be
when that sepulchre is ready."

"Not so," answered Abi, shivering, "for I have another plan; it is of it that I am come to
speak with you. Friend Kaku, you must kill her. Listen: you are a master of spells. The magic
which prevailed against the father will overcome the daughter also. You have but to make a
waxen image or two and breathe strength into them, and the thing is done, and then--think of
the reward."

"Indeed I am thinking, most noble Prince," replied the astrologer with sarcasm. "Shall I tell
you of that reward? It would be my death by slow torture. Moreover, it is impossible, for if
you would know the truth, she cannot be killed."

"What do you mean, Fool?" asked Abi angrily. "Flesh and blood must bow to death."

A sickly smile spread itself over Kaku's thin face as he answered:

"A saying worthy of your wisdom, Prince. Certainly the experience of mankind is that flesh
and blood must bow to death. Yes, yes, flesh and blood!"

"Cease grinning at me, you ape of the rocks," hissed the enraged Abi, "or I will prove as much
on your mocking throat," and snatching out his sword he threatened him with it, adding: "Now
tell me what you mean, or----"

"Prince," ejaculated Kaku, falling to his knees, "I may not, I cannot. Spare me, it is a secret
of the gods."

"Then get you gone to the gods, you lying cur, and talk it over with them," answered Abi, lifting
the sword, "for at least she will not blame me if I send you there."

"Mercy, mercy!" gasped Kaku, sprawling on the ground, while his lord held the sword above his
bald head, thinking that he would choose speech rather than death.

It was at this moment, while the astrologer's fate trembled in the balance, that a sound of
voices reached their ears, and above them the ring of a light, clear laugh which they knew
well. Forgetting his purpose, Abi stepped to the window-place, and looked through the opening
of the shutters. Presently he turned, beckoning to Kaku, and whispered:

"Come and look; there is always time for you to die."

The Vizier heard, and, creeping on his hands and knees to the window-place, raised himself
and peeped through the shutter. This was what he saw. In the walled garden below, the secret
garden of the palace, stood the queen Neter-Tua, and the sunlight piercing through the boughs
of a flowering tree, fell in bright bars upon her beauty. She was not alone, for before her
knelt a man wearing the rich robes of a noble. Kaku knew him at once, for although still young,
he was Abi's favourite captain, an officer whom he loved, and had raised to high place because
of his wit and valour, having given him one of his daughters in marriage. Also he had played
a chief part in the great plot against Pharaoh, and it was he who had dealt the death-blow
to Mermes, the husband of the lady Asti.

Now he was playing another part, namely that of lover to the Queen, for he clasped the hem
of her robe in his hands, and kissed it with his lips, and pleaded with her passionately. They
could catch some of his words.

He had risked his life to climb the wall. He worshipped her. He could not live without her.
He was ready to do her bidding in all things--to gather a band and slay Abi; it would be easy,
for every man was jealous of the Prince, and thought him quite unworthy of her. Let her give
him her love, and he would make her sole Pharaoh of Egypt again, and be content to serve her
as a slave. At least let her say one kind word to him.

Thus he spoke, wildly, imploringly, like a man that is drunk with passion and knows not what
he says or does, while Neter-Tua listened calmly, and now and again laughed that light, low
laugh of hers.

At length he rose and strove to take her hand, but, still laughing, she waved him back, then
said suddenly:

"You slew Mermes when he was weak with wounds, did you not, and he was my foster-father. Well,
well, it was done in war, and you must be a brave man, as brave as you are handsome, for otherwise
you would scarcely have ventured here where a word of mine would give you to your death. And
now get you gone, Friend, back to my Lord's daughter who is your wife, and if you dare--tell
her where you have been and why, you who are so brave a man," and once more she laughed.

Again he began his passionate implorings, begging for some token, till at length she seemed
to melt and take pity on him, for stretching out her hand, she chose a flower from the many
that grew near, and gave it to him, then pointed to the trees that hid the wall, among which
presently he vanished, reeling in the delirium of his joy.

She watched him go, smiling very strangely, then, still smiling, looked down at the bush whence
she had plucked the flower, and Kaku noted that it was one used only by the embalmers to furnish
coronals for the dead.

But Abi noted no such thing. Forgetting his quarrel with Kaku and all else, he gasped, and
foamed in his jealous rage, muttering that he would kill that captain, yes, and the false Queen,
too, who dared to listen to a tale of love and give the lover flowers. Yes, were she ten times
Pharaoh he would kill her, as he had the right to do, and, the naked sword still in his hand,
he turned to leave the place.

"If that is your will, Lord," said Kaku in a strained voice, "bide here."

"Why, man?" asked Abi.

"Because her Majesty comes," he answered, "and this chamber is quiet and fitting. None enter
it save myself."

As he spoke the words the door opened, and closed again, and before them stood Neter-Tua, Star
of Amen.

In the dusk of that room the first thing that seemed to catch her eye was the bared blade in
Abi's hand. For a moment she looked at it and him, also at Kaku crouching in the corner, then
asked in her quiet voice:

"Why is your sword drawn, O Husband?"

"To kill you, O Wife," he answered furiously, for his rage mastered him.

She continued to look at him a little while and said, smiling in her strange fashion:

"Indeed? But why more now than at any other time? Has Kaku's counsel given you courage?"

"Need you ask, shameless woman? Does not this window-place open on to yonder garden?"

"Oh! I remember, that captain of yours--he who slew Mermes, your daughter's husband who made
love to me--so well that I rewarded him with a funeral flower, knowing that you watched us.
Settle your account with him as you and his wife may wish; it is no matter of mine. But I warn
you that if you would take men's lives for such a fault as this, soon you will have no servants
left, since they all are sinners who desire to usurp your place."

Then Abi's fury broke out. He cursed and reviled her, he called her by ill names, swearing
that she should die, who bewitched all men and was the love of none, and who made him a mock
and a shame in the sight of Egypt. But Neter-Tua only listened until at length he raved himself
to silence.

"You talk much and do little," she said at length. "The sword is in your hand, use it, I am here."

Maddened by her scorn he lifted the weapon and rushed at her, only to reel back again as though
he had been smitten by some power unseen. He rested against the wall, then again rushed and
again reeled back.

"You are a poor butcher," she said at length, "after so many years of practice. Let Kaku yonder
try. I think he has more skill in murder."

"Oh! your Majesty," broke in the astrologer, "unsay those cruel words, you who know that rather
than lift hands against you I would die a thousand times."

"Yes," she answered gravely, "the Prince Abi suggested it to you but now, did he not, after
you had suggested it to him, and you refused--for your own reasons?"

Then the sword fell from Abi's hand, and there was silence in that chamber.

"What were you talking of, Abi, before you peeped through the shutters and saw that captain
of yours and me together in the garden, and why did you wish to kill this dog?" she went on
presently. "Must I answer for you? You were talking of how you might be rid of me, and you
wished to kill him because he did not dare to tell you why he could not do the deed, knowing
that if he did so he must die. Well, since you desire to know, you shall learn, and now. Look
on me, wretched Man, whom men name my husband. Look on me, accursed Slave, whom Amen has given
into my hand to punish here upon the earth, until you pass to his yonder in the Under-world."

He looked up, and Kaku looked also, because he could not help it, but what they saw they never
told. Only they fell down upon their faces, both of them, and groaned; beating the floor with
their foreheads.

At length the icy terror seemed to be lifted from their hearts, and they dared to glance up
again, and saw that she was as she had been, a most royal and lovely woman, but no more.

"What are you?" gasped Abi. "The goddess Sekhet in the flesh, or Isis, Queen of Death, or but
dead Tua's ghost sent here for vengeance?"

"All of them, or none of them, as you will, though, Man, it is true that I am sent here for
vengeance. Ask the Wizard yonder. He knows, and I give him leave to say."

"She is the Double of Amen's daughter," moaned Kaku. "She is her Ka set free to bring doom
upon those who would have wronged her. She is a ghost armed with the might of the gods, and
all we who have sinned against dead Pharaoh and her and her father Amen are given into her
hand to be tormented and brought to doom."

"Where, then, is Neter-Tua, who was Queen of Egypt?" gasped Abi, rolling his great eyes. "Is
she with Osiris?"

"I will tell you, Man," answered the royal Shape. "She is not dead--she lives, and is gone
to seek one she loves. When she returns with him and a certain Beggar, then I shall depart
and you will die, both of you, for such is the punishment decreed upon you. Until then, arise
and do my bidding."

CHAPTER XIV

THE BOAT OF RA

Tua, Star of Amen, opened her eyes. For some time already she had lain as one lies between
sleep and waking, and it seemed to her that she heard the sound of dipping oars, and of water
that rippled gently against the sides of a ship. She thought to herself that she dreamed. Doubtless
she was in her bed in the palace at Thebes, and presently, when it was light, her ladies would
come to waken her.

In the palace at Thebes! Why, now she remembered that it was months since she had seen that
royal city, she who had travelled far since then, and come at last to white-walled Memphis,
where many terrible things had befallen her. One by one they came into her mind; the snare,
Pharaoh's murder by magic, the battle, and the slaughter of her guards, the starvation in the
tower, with death on one hand, and the hateful Abi on the other; the wondrous vision of that
spirit who wore her face, and said she was the guardian Ka given to her at birth, the words
it spoke, and her dread resolve; and last of all Asti and herself standing in the lofty window
niche, then a flame of fire before her face, and that fearful downward rush.

Oh! without a doubt it was over; she was dead, and these dreams and memories were such as come
to the dwellers in the Under-world. Only then why did she hear the sound of lapping water,
and of dipping oars?

Very slowly she opened her eyes, for Tua greatly feared what she might see. Light flowed upon
her, the light of the moon which hung in a clear sky like some great lamp of gold. By it she
saw that, robed all in white, she lay upon a couch in a pavilion, whereof the silken curtains
were drawn back in front, and tied to gilded posts. At her side, wrapped in a grey robe, lay
another figure, which she knew for Asti. It was still, so still that she was sure it must be
dead, yet she knew that this was Asti. Perchance Asti dreamed also, and could hear in her dreams;
at least, she would speak to her.

"Asti," she whispered, "Asti, can you hear me?"

The grey figure at her side stirred, and the head turned towards her. Then the voice of Asti,
none other, answered:

"Aye, Lady, I hear and see. But say, where are we now?"

"In the Under-world, I think, Asti. Oh! that fire was death, and now we journey to the Place
of Souls."

"If so, Lady, it is strange that we should still have eyes and flesh and voices as mortal women
have. Let us sit up and look."

So they sat up, their arms about each other, and peered through the open curtains. Behold!
they were on a ship more beautiful than any they had ever seen, for it seemed to be covered
with gold and silver, while sweet odours floated from its hold. Their pavilion was set in the
centre of the ship and looking aft, they perceived lines of white-clad rowers seated at their
oars in the shadow of the bulwarks, and on the high stern--also robed in white--a tall steersman
whose face was veiled, behind whom in the dim glimpses of the moon, they caught sight of a
wide and silvery river, and on its distant banks palms and temple towers.

"It is the Boat of Ra," murmured Tua, "which bears us down the River of Death to the Kingdom
behind the Sun."

Then she sank back upon her cushions, and once more fell into swoon or sleep.

Tua woke again, and lo! the sun was shining brightly, and at her side sat Asti watching her.
Moreover, in front of them was set a table spread with delicate food.

"Tell me what has chanced, Nurse," she said faintly, "for I am bewildered, and know not in
what world we wander."

"Our own, Queen, I think," answered Asti, "but in charge of those who are not of it, for surely
this is no mortal boat, nor do mortals guide her to her port. Come, we need food. Let us eat
while we may."

So they ate and drank heartily enough, and when they had finished even dared to go out of the
pavilion. Looking around them they saw that they stood upon a high deck in the midst of a great
ship, but that this ship was enclosed with a net of silver cords in which they could find no
opening. Looking through its meshes they noted that the oars were inboard, and the great purple
sails set upon the mast, also that the rowers were gone, perchance to rest beneath the deck,
while on the forecastle of the ship stood the captain, white-robed and masked, and aft the
steersman, also still masked, so that they could see nothing of their faces. Now, too, they
were no longer sailing on a river, but down a canal bordered by banks of sand on either side,
beyond which stretched desert farther than the eye could reach.

Asti studied the desert, then turned and said:

"I think I know this canal, Lady, for once I sailed it as a child. I think it is that which
was dug by the Pharaohs of old, and repaired after the fall of the Hyksos kings, and that it
runs from Bubastis to that bay down which wanderers sail towards the rising sun."

"Mayhap," answered Tua. "At least, this is the world that bore us and no other, and by the
mercy of Amen and the power of my Spirit we are still alive, and not dead, or so it seems.
Call now to the captain on yonder deck; perhaps he will tell whither he bears us in his magic
ship."

So Asti called, but the captain made no sign that he saw or heard her. Next she called to the
steersman, but although his veiled face was towards them, he also made no sign, so that at
last they believed either that these were spirits or that they were men born deaf and dumb.
In the end, growing weary of staring at this beautiful ship, at the canal and the desert beyond
it, and of wondering where they were, and how they came thither, they returned to the pavilion
to avoid the heat of the sun. Here they found that during their absence some hand unseen had
arranged the silken bed-clothing on their couches and cleared away the fragments of their meal,
resetting the beautiful table with other foods.

"Truly here is wizardry at work," said Tua, as she sank into a leather-seated ivory chair that
was placed ready.

"Who doubts it?" answered Asti calmly. "By wizardry were you born; by wizardry was Pharaoh
slain; by wizardry we are saved to an end that we cannot guess; by wizardry, or what men so
name, does the whole world move; only being so near we see it not."

Tua thought a while, then said:

"Well, this golden ship is better than the sty of Abi the hog, nor do I believe that we journey
to no purpose. Still I wonder what that spirit who named herself my Ka does on the throne of
Egypt; also how we came on board this boat, and whither we sail."

"Wonder not, for all these things we shall learn in due season, and for my part, although I
hate him I am sorry for Abi," answered Asti drily.

So they sat there in the pavilion watching the desert, over the sands of which their ship seemed
to move, till at length the sun grew low, and they went to walk upon the deck. Then they returned
to eat of the delicious food that was always provided for them in such plenty, and at nightfall
sought their couches, and slept heavily, for they needed rest.

When they awoke again, it was daylight, though no sun shone through the skies, and their vessel
rolled onward across a wide and sullen sea out of sight of land. Also the silken pavilion about
them was gone, and replaced by a cabin of massive cedar wood, though of this, being sated with
marvels, Tua and Asti took little note. Indeed, having neither of them been on an angry ocean
before, a strange dizziness overcame them, which caused them to sleep much and think little
for three whole days and nights.

At length, one evening as the sun sank, they perceived that the violent motion of the vessel
had ceased with the roaring of the gale above, which for all this while had driven them onward
at such fearful speed. Venturing from their cedar house, they saw that they had entered the
mouth of a great river upon the banks of which grew enormous trees that sent out long crooked
roots into the water, and that among these roots crouched crocodiles and other noisome reptiles.
Also the white-robed oarsmen had appeared again, and, as there was no wind, rowed the ship
up the river, till at length they came to a spit of sand which jutted out into the stream,
and here cast anchor.

Now Tua's and Asti's desire for food returned to them, and they ate. Just as they had finished
their meal, and the sun was sinking suddenly, there appeared before them two masked men, each
of whom bore a basket in his hand. Asti began to question them, but like the captain and the
steersman, they seemed to be deaf and dumb. At least they made no answer, only prostrated themselves
humbly, and pointed towards the shore where now Tua saw a fire burning on a rock, though who
had lit it she did not know.

"They mean us to leave the ship," said Asti. "Come, Queen, let us follow our fortunes, for
doubtless these are high."

"As you will," answered Tua, "seeing that we should scarcely have been brought here to no end."

So they accompanied the men to the side of that splendid vessel, for now the netting that confined
them had been removed, to find that a gangway had been laid from its bulwark to the shore.
As they stepped on to this gangway their masked companions handed to each of them one of the
baskets, then again bowed humbly and were gone. Soon they gained the bank, and scarcely had
their feet touched it when the gangway was withdrawn, and the great oars began to beat the
muddy water.

Round swung the ship, and for a minute hung in midstream. There stood the captain on the foredeck,
and there was the steersman at the helm, and the red light of the sinking sun turned them into
figures of flame. Suddenly with a simultaneous motion these men tore off their masks so that
for a moment Asti and Tua saw their faces--and behold! the face of the captain was the face
of Pharaoh, Tua's father, and the face of the steersman was the face of Mermes, Asti's husband.

For one moment only did they see them, then a dark cloud hid the dying sun, and when it passed
that ship was gone, whither they knew not.

The two women looked at each other, and for the first time were much afraid.

"Truly," said Tua, "we are haunted if ever mortals were, for yonder ship has ghosts for mariners."

"Aye, Lady," answered Asti, "so have I thought from the first. Still, take heart, for these
ghosts once were men who loved us well, and doubtless they love us still. Be sure that for
no ill purpose have we been snatched out of the hand of Abi, and brought living and unharmed
by the shades of Pharaoh your sire, and Mermes my husband, to this secret shore. See, yonder
burns a fire, let us go to it, and await what may befall bravely, knowing that at least it
can be naught but good."

So they went to the rock and, darkness being come, sat themselves down by the fire, alongside
of which lay wood for its replenishment, and near the wood soft robes of camel-hair to shield
them from the cold. These robes they put on with thankfulness, and, having fed the flame, bethought
them of and opened the baskets which were given to them when they left the ship. The first
basket, that which Asti held, they found to contain food, cakes, dried meats and dates, as
much as one woman could carry. But the second, that which had been given to Tua, was otherwise
provided, for in the mouth of it lay a lovely harp of ivory with golden strings, whereof the
frame was fashioned to the shape of a woman. Tua drew it out and looked at it by the light
of the fire.

"It is my own harp," she said in an awed voice, "the harp that the Prince of Kesh, whom Rames
slew, brought as a gift to me, to the notes of which I sang the Song of the Lovers but just
before the giver died. Yes, it is my own harp that I left in Thebes. Say, now, Nurse, how came
it here?"

"How came we here?" answered Asti shortly. "Answer my question and I will answer yours."

Then, laying down the harp, Tua looked again into her basket and found that beneath a layer
of dried papyrus leaves were hidden pearls, thousands of pearls of all sizes, and of such lustre
and beauty as she had never seen. They were strung upon threads of silk, all those of a like
size being set upon a single thread, except the very biggest, which were as great as a finger
nail, or even larger, that lay wrapped up separately in cloth at the bottom of the basket.

"Surely," said Tua, amazed, "no Queen in all the earth ever had a dower of such priceless pearls.
Moreover, what good they and the harp can be to us in this forest I may not guess."

"Doubtless we shall discover in due course," answered Asti; "meanwhile, let us thank the gods
for their gifts and eat."

So they ate, and then, having nothing else to do, lay down by the fire and would have slept.

But scarcely had they closed their eyes when the forest seemed to awake. First from down by
the river there came dreadful roarings which they knew must be the voice of lions, for there
were tame beasts of this sort in the gardens at Thebes. Next they heard the whines and wimperings
of wolves and jackals, and mingled with them great snortings such as are made by the rhinoceros
and the river-horse.

Nearer, nearer came these awful sounds, till at length they saw yellow eyes moving like stars
in the darkness at the edge of the forest, while cross the patch of sand beneath their rock
galloped swift shapes which halted and sniffed towards them. Also on the river side of them
appeared huge, hog-like beasts, with gleaming tusks, and red cavernous mouths, and beyond these
again, crashing through the brushwood, a gigantic brute that bore a single horn upon its snout.

"Now our end is at hand," said Tua faintly, "for surely these creatures will devour us."

But Asti only threw more wood upon the fire and waited, thinking that the flame would frighten
them away. Yet it did not, for so curious, or so hungry were they, that the lions crept and
crept nearer, and still more near, till at length they lay lashing their tails in the distance
almost within springing distance of the rock, while on the farther side of these, like a court
waiting on its monarch, gathered the hyenas and other beasts.

"They will spring presently," whispered Tua.

"Did the Spirits of the divine Pharaoh your father, and of Mermes my lord, bring us here in
the Boat of Ra that we should be devoured by wild animals, like lost sheep in the desert?"
asked Asti. Then, as though by an inspiration, she added, "Lady, take that harp of yours, and
play and sing to it."

So Tua took the harp and swept its golden chords, and, lifting up her lovely voice, she began
to sing. At first it trembled a little, but by degrees, as she forgot all save the music, it
grew strong, and rang out sweetly in the silence of the forest, and the great, slow-moving
river. And lo! as she sang thus, the wild brutes grew still, and seemed to listen as though
they were charmed. Yes, even a snake wriggled out from between the rocks and listened, waving
its crested head to and fro.

At length Tua ceased, and as the echoes died away the brutes, every one of them, turned and
vanished into the forest or the river, all save the snake that coiled itself up and slept where
it was. So stillness came again, and Tua and Asti slept also, nor did they wake until the sun
was shining in the heavens.

Then they arose wondering, and went down over the patch of sand that was marked with the footprints
of all the beasts to the river's brink, and drank and washed themselves, peering the while
through the mists, for they thought that perchance they would see that golden ship with the
veiled crew which had carried them from Memphis, returned and awaiting them in midstream.

But no ship was there; nothing was there except the river-horses which rose and sank, and the
crocodiles on the mud-banks, and the wildfowl that flighted inward from the sea to feed. So
they went back to the ashes of their fire and ate of the food in Asti's basket, and, when they
had eaten, looked at each other, not knowing what to do. Then Tua said:

"Come, Nurse, let us be going. Up the river and down the river we cannot walk, for there are
nothing but weeds and mud, so we must strike out through the forest, whither the gods may lead us."

Asti nodded, and, clad in the light warm clothes of camel-hair, they set the baskets upon their
heads after the fashion of the peasant women of Egypt and started forward, the harp of ivory
and of gold hanging upon Tua's back.

For hour after hour they marched thus through the forest, threading their path between the
big boles of the trees, and heading always for the south, for that way ran the woodland glades
beyond which was dense bush. Great apes chattered above them in the tree tops, and now and
again some beast of prey crossed their path and vanished in the underwood, but nothing else
did they see. At length, towards midday, the ground began to rise, and the trees grew smaller
and farther apart, till at last they reached the edge of a sandy desert, and walked out to
a little oasis, where the green grass showed them they would find water. In this oasis there
was a spring, and by the edge of it they sat down and drank, and ate of their store of food,
and afterwards slept a while.

Suddenly Tua, in her sleep, heard a voice, and, awaking with a start, saw a man who stood near
by, leaning on a thornwood staff and contemplating them. He was a very strange man, apparently
of great age, for his long white hair fell down upon his shoulders, and his white beard reached
to his middle. Once he must have been very tall, but now he was bent with age, and the bones
of his gaunt frame thrust out his ragged garments. His dark eyes also were horny, indeed it
seemed as though he could scarcely see with them, for he leaned forward to peer at their faces
where they lay. His face was scored by a thousand wrinkles, and almost black with exposure
to the sun and wind, but yet of a marvellous tenderness and beauty. Indeed, except that it
was far more ancient, and the features were on a larger and a grander scale, it reminded Tua
of the face of Pharaoh after he was dead.

"My Father," said Tua, sitting up, for an impulse prompted her to name this wanderer thus,
"say whence do you come, and what would you with your servants?"

"My Daughter," answered the old man in a sweet, grave voice, "I come from the wilderness which
is my home. Long have I outlived all those of my generation, yes, and their children also.
Therefore the wilderness and the forest that do not change are now my only friends, since they
alone knew me when I was young. Be pitiful now to me, for I am poor, so poor that for three
whole days no food has passed my lips. It was the smell of the meat which you have with you
that led me to you. Give me of that meat, Daughter, for I starve."

"It is yours, O----" and she paused.

"I am called Kepher."

"Kepher, Kepher!" repeated Tua, for she thought it strange that a beggar-man should be named
after that scarabæus insect which among the Egyptians was the symbol of eternity. "Well, take
and eat, O Kepher," she said, and handed him the basket that contained what was left to them
of their store.

The beggar took it, and having looked up to heaven as though to ask a blessing on his meal,
sat down upon the sand and began to devour the food ravenously.

"Lady," said Asti, "he will eat it all, and then we shall starve in this desert. He is a locust,
not a man," she added, as another cake disappeared.

"He is our guest," answered Tua gravely, "let him take what we have to give."

For a while Asti was silent, then again she broke out into remonstrance.

"Peace, Nurse," replied Tua, "I have said that he is our guest, and the law of hospitality
may not be broken."

"Then the law of hospitality will bring us to our deaths," muttered Asti.

"If so, so let it be, Nurse; at least this poor man will be filled, and for the rest, as always,
we must trust to Amen our father."

Yet as she spoke the words tears gathered in her eyes, for she knew that Asti was right, and
now that all the food was gone, on which with care they might have lived for two days or more,
soon they would faint, and perish, unless help came to them, which was not likely in that lonesome
place. Once, not so long ago, they had starved for lack of sustenance, and it was the thought
of that slow pain so soon to be renewed, that brought the water to her eyes.

Meanwhile Kepher, whose appetite for one so ancient was sharp indeed, finished the contents
of the basket down to the last date, and handed it back to Tua with a bow, saying:

"I thank you, Daughter; the Queen of Egypt could not have entertained me more royally," and
he peered at her with his horny eyes. "I who have been empty for long, am full again, and since
I cannot reward you I pray to the gods that they will do so. Beautiful Daughter, may you never
know what it is to lack a meal."

At this saying Tua could restrain herself no more. A large tear from her eyes fell upon Kepher's
rough hand as she answered with a little sob:

"I am glad that you are comforted with meat, but do not mock us, Friend, seeing that we are
but lost wanderers who very soon must starve, since now our food is done."

"What, Daughter?" asked the old man in an astonished voice, "what? Can I believe that you gave
all you had to a beggar of the wilderness, and sat still while he devoured it? And is it for
this reason that you weep?"

"Forgive me, Father, but it is so," answered Tua. "I am ashamed of such weakness, but recently
my friend here and I have known hunger, very sore hunger, and the dread of it moves me. Come,
Asti, let us be going while our strength remains in us."

Kepher looked up at the name, then turned to Tua and said:

"Daughter, your face is fair, and your heart is perfect, since otherwise you would not have
dealt with me as you have done. Still, it seems that you lack one thing--undoubting faith in
the goodness of the gods. Though, surely," he added in a slow voice, "those who have passed
yonder lion-haunted forest without hurt should not lack faith. Say, now, how came you there?"

"We are ladies of Egypt," interrupted Asti, "or at least this maiden is, for I am but her old
nurse. Man-stealing pirates of Phoenicia seized us while we wandered on the shores of the Nile,
and brought us hither in their ship, by what way we do not know. At length they put into yonder
river for water, and we fled at night. We are escaped slaves, no more."

"Ah!" said Kepher, "those pirates must mourn their loss. I almost wonder that they did not
follow you. Indeed, I thought that you might be other folk, for, strangely enough, as I slept
in the sand last night, a certain spirit from the Under-world visited me in my dreams, and
told me to search for one Asti and another lady who was with her--I cannot remember the name
of that lady. But I do remember the name of the spirit, for he told it to me; it was Mermes."

Now Asti gave a little cry, and, springing up, searched Kepher's face with her eyes, nor did
he shrink from her gaze.

"I perceive," she said slowly, "that you who seem to be a beggar are also a seer."

"Mayhap, Asti," he answered. "In my long life I have often noted that sometimes men are more
than they seem--and women also. Perhaps you have learned the same, for nurses in great houses
may note many things if they choose. But let us say no more. I think it is better that we should
say no more. You and your companion--how is she named?"

"Neferte," answered Asti promptly.

"Neferte, ah! Certainly that was not the name which the spirit used, though it is true that
other name began with the same sound, or so I think. Well, you and your companion, Neferte,
escaped from those wicked pirates, and managed to bring certain things with you, for instance,
that beautiful harp, wreathed with the royal uræi, and--but what is in that second basket?"

"Pearls," broke in Tua quickly.

"And a large basket of pearls. Might I see them? Oh! do not be afraid, I shall not rob those
whose food I have eaten, it is against the custom of the desert."

"Certainly," answered Tua. "I never thought that you would rob us, for if you were of the tribe
of thieves, surely you would be richer, and less hungry than you seem. I only thought that
you were almost blind, Father Kepher, and therefore could not know the difference between a
pearl and a pebble."

"My feeling still remains to me, Daughter Neferte," he answered with a little smile.

Then Tua gave him the basket. He opened it and drew out the strings of pearls, feeling them,
smelling and peering at them, touching them with his tongue, especially the large single ones
which were wrapped up by themselves. At length, having handled them all, he restored them to
the basket, saying drily:

"It is strange, indeed, Nurse Asti, that those Syrian man-stealers attempted no pursuit of
you, for here, whether they were theirs or not, are enough gems to buy a kingdom."

"We cannot eat pearls," answered Asti.

"No, but pearls will buy more than you need to eat."

"Not in a desert," said Asti.

"True, but as it chances there is a city in this desert, and not so very far away."

"Is it named Napata?" asked Tua eagerly.

"Napata? No, indeed. Yet, I have heard of such a place, the City of Gold they called it. In
fact, once I visited it in my youth, over a hundred years ago."

"A hundred years ago! Do you remember the way thither?"

"Yes, more or less, but on foot it is over a year's journey away, and the path thither lies
across great deserts and through tribes of savage men. Few live to reach that city."

"Yet I will reach it, or die, Father."

"Perhaps you will, Daughter Neferte, perhaps you will, but I think not at present. Meanwhile,
you have a harp, and therefore it is probable that you can play and sing; also you have pearls.
Now the inhabitants of this town whereof I spoke to you love music. Also they love pearls,
and as you cannot begin your journey to Napata for three months, when the rain on the mountains
will have filled the desert wells, I suggest that you would do wisely to settle yourselves
there for a while. Nurse Asti here would be a dealer in pearls, and you, her daughter, would
be a musician. What say you?"

"I say that I should be glad to settle myself anywhere out of this desert," said Tua wearily.
"Lead us on to the city, Father Kepher, if you know the way."

"I know the way, and will guide you thither in payment for that good meal of yours. Now come.
Follow me." And taking his long staff he strode away in front of them.

"This Kepher goes at a wonderful pace for an old man," said Tua presently. "When first we saw
him he could scarcely hobble."

"Man!" answered Asti. "He is not a man, but a spirit, good or bad, I don't know which, appearing
as a beggar. Could a man eat as much as he did--all our basketful of food? Does a man talk
of cities that he visited in his youth over a hundred years ago, or declare that my dead husband
spoke to him in his dreams? No, no, he is a ghost like those upon the ship."

"So much the better," answered Tua cheerfully, "since ghosts have been good friends to us,
for had it not been for them I should have been dead or shamed to-day."

"That we shall find out at the end of the story," said Asti, who was cross and weary, for the
heat of the sun was great. "Meanwhile, follow on. There is nothing else to do."

For hour after hour they walked, till at length towards evening, when they were almost exhausted,
they struggled up a long rise of sand and rocks, and from the crest of it perceived a large
walled town set in a green and fertile valley not very far beneath them. Towards this town
Kepher, who marched at a distance in front, guided them till they reached a clump of trees
on the outskirts of the cultivated land. Here he halted, and when they came up to him, led
them among the trees.

"Now," he said, "drop your veils and bide here, and if any should come to you, say that you
are poor wandering players who rest. Also, if it pleases you, give me a small pearl off one
of those strings, that I may go into the city, which is named Tat, and sell it to buy you food
and a place to dwell in."

"Take a string," said Tua faintly.

"Nay, nay, Daughter, one will be enough, for in this town pearls are rare, and have a great value."

So she gave him the gem, or rather let him take it from the silk, which he re-fastened very
neatly for one who seemed to be almost blind, and strode off swiftly towards the town.

"Man or spirit, I wonder if we shall see him again?" said Asti.

Tua made no answer--she was too tired, but resting herself against the bole of a tree, fell
into a doze. When she awoke again it was to see that the sun had sunk, and that before her
stood the beggar Kepher, and with him two black men, each of whom led a saddled mule.

"Mount, Friends," he said, "for I have found you a lodging."

So they mounted, and were led to the gate of the city which at the word of Kepher was opened
for them, and thence down a long street to a house built in a walled garden. Into this house
they entered, the black men leading off the mules, to find that it was a well-furnished place
with a table ready set in the ante-room, on which was food in plenty. They ate of it, all three
of them, and when they had finished Kepher bade a woman who was waiting on them, lead them
to their chamber, saying that he himself would sleep in the garden.

Thither then they went without more questions, and throwing themselves down upon beds which
were prepared for them, were soon fast asleep.

CHAPTER XV

TUA AND THE KING OF TAT

In the morning, after Tua and Asti had put on the clean robes that lay to their hands, and
eaten, suddenly they looked up and perceived that Kepher, the ancient beggar of the desert,
was in the room with them, though neither of them had heard or seen him enter.

"You come silently, Friend," said Asti, looking at him with a curious eye. "A Double could
not move with less noise, and--where is your shadow?" she added, staring first at the sun without,
and then at the floor upon which he stood.

"I forgot it," he answered in his deep voice. "One so poor as I am cannot always afford a shadow.
But look, there it is now. And for the rest, what do you know of Doubles which those who are
uninstructed cannot discern? Now I have heard of a Lady in Egypt who by some chance bore your
name, and who has the power, not only to see the Double, but to draw it forth from the body
of the living, and furnish it with every semblance of mortal life. Also I have heard that she
who reigns in Egypt to-day has such a Ka or Double that can take her place, and none know the
difference, save that this Ka, which Amen gave her at her birth, works the vengeance of the
gods without pity or remorse. Tell me, Friend Asti, when you were a slave-woman in Egypt did
you ever hear talk of such things as these?"

Now he looked at Asti, and Asti looked at him, till at length he moved his old hands in a certain
fashion, whereon she bowed her head and was silent.

But Tua, who was terrified at this talk, for she knew not what would befall them if the truth
were guessed, broke in, saying:

"Welcome, Father, however it may please you to come, and with or without a shadow. Surely we
have much to thank you for who have found us this fine house and servants and food--by the
way, will you not eat again?"

"Nay," he answered, smiling, "as you may have guessed yesterday, I touch meat seldom; as a
rule, once only in three days, and then take my fill. Life is so short that I cannot waste
time in eating."

"Oh!" said Tua, "if you feel thus whose youth began more than a hundred years ago, how must
it seem to the rest of us? But, Father Kepher, what are we to do in this town Tat?"

"I have told you, Maiden. Asti here will deal in pearls and other goods, and you will sing,
but always behind the curtain, since here in Tat you must suffer no man to see your beauty,
and least of all him who rules it. Now give me two more pearls, for I go out to buy for you
other things that are needful, and after that perhaps you will see me no more for a long while.
Yet if trouble should fall upon you, go to the window-place wherever you may be, and strike
upon that harp of yours, and call thrice upon the name of Kepher. Doubtless there will be some
listening who will hear you and bring me the news in the Desert, where I dwell who do not love
towns, and then I may be able to help you."

"I thank you, my Father, and I will remember. But pardon me if I ask how can one so----" and
she paused.

"So old, so ragged and so miserable give help to man or woman--that is what you would say,
Daughter Neferte, is it not? Well, judge not from the outward seeming; good wine is often found
in jars of common clay, and the fire hid in a rough flint can destroy a city."

"And therefore a wanderer who can swallow his own shadow can aid another wanderer in distress,"
remarked Tua drily. "My Father, I understand, who although I am still young, have seen many
things and ere now been dragged out of deep water by strange hands."

"Such as those of Phoenician pirates," suggested Kepher. "Well, good-bye. I go to purchase
what you need with the price of these pearls, and then the Desert calls me for a while. Remember
what I told you, and do not seek to leave this town of Tat until the rain has fallen on the
mountains, and there is water in the wells. Good-bye, Friend Asti, also; when I come again
we will talk more of Doubles, until which time may the great god of Egypt--he is called Amen,
is he not?--have you and your Lady in his keeping."

Then he turned and went.

"What is that man?" asked Tua when they had heard the door of the house close behind him.

"Man?" answered Asti. "I have told you that he is no man. Do men unfold their shadows like
a garment? He is a god or a ghost, wearing a beggar's shape."

"Man or ghost, I like him well for he has befriended us in our need, Nurse."

"That we shall know when he has done with us," answered Asti.

An hour later, whilst they were still talking of Kepher and all the marvels that had befallen
them, porters began to arrive, bearing bundles which, when opened, were found to contain silks
and broideries in gold and silver thread, and leather richly worked, such as the Arabs make,
and alabaster pots of ointments, and brass work from Syria, and copper jars from Cyprus, with
many other goods, all very costly, and in number more than enough for a wealthy trader's store.

These goods the porters set out on the mats and shelves of the large front room of the house
that opened to the street, which room seemed to have been built to receive them. Then they
departed, asking no fees, and there appeared a man riding a fine white horse, who dismounted,
and, bowing low towards the screen of pierced wood-work behind which Tua and Asti were hidden,
laid a writing upon a little table, and rode away. When he had gone Asti opened the door in
the screen and took the writing which she found she could read well enough, for it was in the
Egyptian character and language.

It proved to be the title-deed of the house and garden conveyed to them jointly, and also of
the rich goods which the porters had brought. At the foot of this document was written--

"Received by Kepher the Wanderer in payment of the above house and land and goods, three pearls
and one full meal of meat and dates."

Then followed the seal of Kepher in wax, a finely cut scarabæus holding the symbol of the sun
between its two front feet.

"A proud seal for a tattered wanderer, though it is but his name writ in wax," said Tua.

But Asti only answered:

"If small pearls have such value in this city, what price will the large ones bring? Well,
let us to our business, for we have time upon our hands, and cannot live upon pearls and costly
stuffs."

So it happened that Neter-Tua, Star of Amen, Queen of Egypt, and Asti her Nurse, the Mistress
of Magic, became merchants in the town of Tat.

This was the manner of their trade. For one hour in the morning, and one in the afternoon,
Asti, heavily veiled, and a woman of the servants whom they had found in the house, would sit
on stools amidst the goods and traffic with all comers, selling to those who would buy, and
taking payment in gold dust or other articles of value, or buying from those who would sell.
Then when the hour drew towards its close Tua would sweep her harp behind the screen that hid
her and begin to sing, whereon all would cease from their chaffering and listen, for never
before had they heard so sweet a voice. Indeed, at these times the broad street in front of
their house was packed with people, for the fame of this singing of hers went through the city
and far into the country that lay beyond. Then the traffic came to an end, with her song, and
leaving their goods in charge of the servants, Tua and Asti departed to the back rooms of the
house, and ate their meals or wandered in the large, walled garden that lay behind.

Thus the weeks went on and soon, although they sold few of the pearls, and those the smallest,
for of the larger gems they said little or nothing, they began to grow rich, and to hoard up
such a weight of gold in dust and nuggets, and so many precious things, that they scarcely
knew what they should do with them. Still Tat seemed to be a peaceful city, or at the least
none tried to rob or molest them, perhaps because a rumour was abroad that these strangers
who had come out of the Unknown were under the protection of some god.

There was nothing to show how or why this rumour had arisen in the city, but on account of
it, if for no other reason, these pearl-merchants, as they were called, suffered no wrong,
and although they were only undefended women, whatever credit they might give, the debt was
always paid. Also their servants, to whom they added as they had means, were all faithful to
them. So there they remained and traded, keeping their secrets and awaiting the appointed hour
of escape, but never venturing to leave the shelter of their own walls.

Now, as it happened, when they came thither the King of Tat was away making war upon another
king whose country lay upon the coast, but after they had dwelt for many weeks in the place,
this King, who was named Janees, returned victorious from his war and prepared to celebrate
a triumph.

While he was making ready for this triumph his courtiers told him of these pearl-merchants,
and, desiring pearls for his adornment on that great day, he went in disguise to the house
of those who sold them. As it chanced he arrived late, and requested to see the gems just as
Tua, according to her custom, was playing upon her harp. Then she began to sing, and this King
Janees, who was a man of under forty years of age, listened intently to her beautiful voice,
forgetting all about the pearls that he had come to buy. Her song finished, the veiled Asti
rose, and bowing to all the company gathered in the street, bade her servants shut up the coffers
and remove the goods.

"But I would buy pearls, Merchant, if you have such to sell," said Janees.

"Then you must return this afternoon, Purchaser," replied Asti, scanning his pale and haughty
face, "for even if you were the King of Tat I would not sell to you out of my hours."

"You speak high words, Woman," exclaimed Janees angrily.

"High or low, they are what I mean," answered Asti, and went away.

The end of it was that this King Janees returned at the evening hour, led thither more by a
desire to hear that lovely voice again than to purchase gems. Still he asked to see pearls,
and Asti showed him some which he thrust aside as too small. Then she produced those that were
larger, and again he thrust them aside, and so it went on for a long while. At length from
somewhere in her clothing Asti drew two of the biggest that she had, perfect pearls of the
size of the middle nail of a man's finger, and at the sight of these the eyes of Janees brightened,
for such gems he had never seen before. Then he asked the price. Asti answered carelessly that
it was doubtless more than he would wish to pay, since there were few such pearls in the whole
world, and she named a weight in gold that caused him to step back from her amazed, for it
was a quarter of the tribute that he had taken from his new-conquered kingdom.

"Woman, you jest," he said, "surely there is some abatement."

"Man," she answered, "I jest not; there is no abatement," and she replaced the pearls in her
garments.

Now he grew very angry, and asked:

"Did you know that I am the King of Tat, and if I will, can take your pearls without any payment
at all?"

"Are you?" asked Asti, looking at him coolly. "I should never have guessed it. Well, if you
steal my goods, as you say you can, you will be King of Thieves also."

Now those who heard this saying laughed, and the King thought it best to join in their merriment.
Then the bargaining went on, but before it was finished, at her appointed hour Tua began to
sing behind the screen.

"Have done," said the King to Asti, "to-morrow you shall be paid your price. I would listen
to that music which is above price."

So Janees listened like one fascinated, for Tua was singing her best. Step by step he drew
ever nearer to the screen, though this Asti did not notice, for she was engaged in locking
up her goods. At length he reached it, and thrusting his fingers through the openings in the
pierced woodwork, rested his weight upon it like a man who is faint, as perhaps he was with
the sweetness of that music. Then of a sudden, by craft or chance, he swung himself backward,
and with him came the frail screen. Down it clattered to the floor, and lo! beyond it, unveiled,
but clad in rich attire, stood Tua sweeping her harp of ivory and gold. Like sunlight from
a cloud the bright vision of her beauty struck the eyes of the people gathered there, and seemed
to dazzle them, since for a while they were silent. Then one said:

"Surely this woman is a queen," and another answered:

"Nay, she is a goddess," but ere the words had left his lips Tua was gone.

As for Janees the King, he stared at her open-mouthed, reeling a little upon his feet, then,
as she fled, turned to Asti, saying:

"Is this Lady your slave?"

"Nay, King, my daughter, whom you have done ill to spy upon."

"Then," said Janees slowly, "I who might do less, desire to make this daughter of yours my
Queen--do you understand, Merchant of Pearls--my Queen, and as a gift you shall have as much
gold again as I have promised for your gems."

"Other kings have desired as much and offered more, but she is not for you or any of them,"
answered Asti, looking him in the face.

Now Janees made a movement as though he would strike her, then seemed to change his mind, for
he replied only:

"A rough answer to a fair offer, seeing that none know who you are or whence you come. But
there are eyes upon us. I will talk with you again to-morrow; till then, rest in peace."

"It is useless," began Asti, but he was already gone.

Presently Asti found Tua in the garden, and told her everything.

"Now I wish that Kepher of the Desert were at hand," said Tua nervously, "for it seems that
I am in a snare, who like this Janees no better than I did Abi or the Prince of Kesh, and will
never be his Queen."

"Then I think we had better fly to the wilderness and seek him there this very night, for,
Lady, you know what chances to men who look upon your loveliness."

"I know what chanced to the Prince of Kesh, and what will chance to Abi at the hands of one
I left behind me, I can guess; perhaps this Janees will fare no better. Still, let us go."

Asti nodded, then by an afterthought went into the house and asked some questions of the servants.
Presently she returned, and said:

"It is useless; soldiers are already stationed about the place, and some of our women who tried
to go out have been turned back, for they say that by the King's order none may leave our door."

"Now shall I strike upon the harp and call upon the name of Kepher, as he bade me?" asked Tua.

"I think not yet awhile, Lady. This danger may pass by or the night bring counsel, and then
he would be angry if you summoned him for naught. Let us go in and eat."

So they went in, and while they sat at their food suddenly they heard a noise, and looking
up, perceived by the light of the lamp that women were crowding into the room led by two eunuchs.

Tua drew a dagger from her robe and sprang up, but the head eunuch, an old, white-haired man,
bowed low before her, and said:

"Lady, you can kill me if you will, for I am unarmed, but there are many more of us without,
and to resist is useless. Hearken; no harm shall be done to you or to your companion, but it
is the King's desire that one so royal and beautiful should be better lodged than in this place
of traffic. Therefore he has commanded me to take you and all your household and all your goods
to no less a place than his own palace, where he would speak with you."

"Sheathe the dagger and waste no words upon these slaves, Daughter," said Asti. "Since we have
no choice, let us go."

So after they had veiled and robed, they suffered themselves to be led out and placed in a
double litter with their pearls and gold, while the King's women collected all the rest of
their goods and took them away together with their servants, leaving the house quite empty.
Then, guarded by soldiers, they were borne through the silent streets till they came to great
gates which closed behind them, and having passed up many stairs, the litter was set down in
a large and beautiful room lit with silver lamps of scented oil. Here, and in other rooms beyond,
they found women of the royal household and their own servants already arranging their possessions.

Soon it was done, and food and wine having been set for them, they were left alone in that
room, and stood looking at each other.

"Now shall I strike and call?" said Tua, lifting the harp which she had brought with her. "Look,
yonder is a window-place such as that of which Kepher spoke."

"Not yet, I think, Lady. Let us learn all our case ere we call for help," and as the words
left her lips the door opened, and through it, clad in his royal robes, walked Janees the King.

Now in the centre of this great room was a marble basin filled with pure water which, perhaps,
had served as the bath of the queens who dwelt there in former days, or, perhaps, was so designed
for the sake of coolness in times of heat. Tua and Asti stood upon one side of this basin,
and to the other came the King, so that the water lay between them. Thrice he bowed to Tua,
then said:

"Lady, who, as your servants tell me, are known as Neferte, a maiden of Egypt, and for lack
of the true name, doubtless this will serve, Lady, I come to ask your pardon for what must
seem to you to be a grievous wrong. O Lady Neferte, this must be my excuse, that I have no
choice. By fortune, good or ill, I know not which, this day I beheld your face, and now but
one desire is left to me, to behold it again, and for all my life. Lady, the Goddess of Love,
she, whom in Egypt you name Hathor, has made me her slave, so that I no longer think of pomp
or power or wealth, or of other women, but of you and you only. Lady, I would do you no harm,
for I offer you half my throne. You and you alone shall be my Queen. Speak now."

"King Janees," answered Tua, "what evil spirit has entered into you that you should wish to
make a Queen of a singing-girl, the daughter of a merchant who has wandered to your city? Let
me go, and keep that high place for one of the great ones of the earth. Send now to Abi, who
I have heard rules as Pharaoh in Egypt, and ask a daughter of his blood, for they say that
he has several; or to some of the princes of Syria, or to the King of Byblos by Lebanon, or
to the lords of Kesh, or across the desert to the Emperor of Punt, and let this poor singing-girl
go her ways."

"This poor singing-girl," repeated Janees after her, "who, or whose mother," and he bowed to
Asti with a smile, "has pearls to sell that are worth the revenue of a kingdom; this singing-girl,
the ivory figure on whose harp is crowned with the royal uræi of Egypt; this singing-girl whose
chiselled loveliness is such as might be found perhaps among the daughters of ancient kings;
this singing-girl whose voice can ravish the hearts of men and beasts! Well, Lady Neferte,
I thank you for your warning, still I am ready to take my chance, hoping that my children will
not be made ashamed by the blood of such a singing-girl as this, who, as I saw when that screen
fell, has stamped upon her throat the holy sign they worship on the Nile."

"I am honoured," answered Tua coldly, "yet it may not be. Among my own humble folk I have a
lover, and him I will wed or no man."

"You have a lover! Then hide his name from me, lest presently I should play Set to his Osiris
and rend him into pieces. You shake your head, knowing doubtless that the man is great, yet
I tell you that I will conquer him and rend him into pieces for the crime of being loved by
you. Listen now! I would make you my Queen, but Queen or not, mine you shall be who lie in
my power. I will not force you, I will give you time. But if on the morning of the third day
from this night you still refuse to share my throne, why, then you shall sit upon its footstool."

Now, in her anger, Tua threw back her veil, and met him eye to eye.

"You think me great," she said, "and truly you are right, for whatever is my rank, with me
go my gods, and in their strength my innocence is great. Let me be, you petty King of Tat,
lest I lift up my voice to heaven, and call down upon you the anger of the gods."

"Already, Lady, you have called down upon me the anger of a goddess, that Hathor of whom I
spoke, and for the rest I fear them not. Let them do their worst. On the third night from this
night, as Queen or slave, I swear that you shall be mine. This woman here, whom you call your
mother, shall be witness to my oath, and to its end."

"Aye, King," broke in Asti, "I will be witness, but as to the end of that oath I do not know
it yet. Would you like to learn? In my own country I was held to have something of a gift,
I mean in the way of magic. It came to me, I know not whence, and it is very uncertain--at
times it is my servant, and at times I can do nothing. Still, for your sake, I would try. Is
it your pleasure to see that end of which you spoke, the end of your attempt to force yonder
maiden to be your queen or love?"

"Aye, Woman," answered Janees, "if you have a trick, show it--why not?"

"So be it, King; but, of course, I have your word that you will not blame me if by any chance
the trick should not prove to your liking--your royal word. Now stand you there, and look into
this water while I pray our gods, the gods of my own country, to be gracious, and to show you
what shall be your state at this same hour on the third night from now, which you say and hope
shall be the night of your wedding. Sing, my Daughter, sing that old and sacred song which
I have taught you. It will serve to while away the tedium of our waiting until the gods declare
themselves, if such be their will."

Then Asti knelt down by the pool, and bent her head, and stretched out her hands over the water,
and Tua touched the strings of her harp and began to chant very solemnly in an unknown tongue.
The words of that chant were low and sweet, yet it seemed to Janees that they fell like ice
upon his hot blood, and froze it within his veins. At first he kept his eyes fixed upon her
beauty, but by slow degrees something drew them down to the water of the pool.

Look! A mist gathered on its blackness. It broke and cleared and there, as in a mirror, he
saw a picture. He saw himself lying stripped and dead, a poor, naked corpse with wide eyes
that stared to heaven, and gashed throat and sides whence the blood ran upon the marble floor
of his own great hall, ruined by fire, with its scorched pillars pointing like fingers to the
moon. There he lay alone, and by him stood a hound, his own hound, that lifted up its head
and seemed to howl.

The last words of Tua's chant died away, and with them that picture passed. Janees leapt back
from the edge of the pool, glaring at Asti.

"Sorceress!" he cried, "were you not my guest who names herself the mother of her who shall
be my Queen, I swear that to-night you should die by torture in payment of this foul trick
of yours."

"Yet as it is," answered Asti, "I think that I shall not die, since those who call upon the
gods must not quarrel with their oracle. Moreover, I know now what you saw, and it may be nothing
but a fantasy of your brain or of mine. Now let us sleep, I pray you, O King, for we are weary,
and leave its secrets to the future. In three days we shall know what they may be."

Then, without another word, Janees turned and left them.

"What was it that lay in the pool, Nurse?" asked Tua. "I saw nothing."

"The shadow of a dead man, I think," answered Asti grimly. "Some jealous god has looked upon
this poor King whose crime is that he desires you, and therefore he must die. Of a truth it
goes ill with your lovers, O Star of Amen, and sometimes I wonder if one who is dear to me
will meet with better fortune at those royal eyes of yours. If ill befalls him I think that
at the last I may learn to hate you, whom from the first I cherished."

Now at the thought that she might bring death to Rames also, Tua's tears began to gather, and
her voice choked in her throat.

"Say not such evil-omened words," she sobbed, "since you know well that if he is taken hence
for whose sake I endure all these things, then I must follow him over the edge of the world.
Moreover, you are unjust. Did I slay the Prince of Kesh, or was it another?"

"Another, Queen, but for your sake."

"And would you have had me wed Abi the hog, the murderer of my father, and of your lord? Again,
was it I who but now showed this barbarian chief a shadow in the water, or was it Asti the
witch, Asti the prophetess of Amen? Lastly, will the man die, if die he must, because he loves
me, which, being a woman I can forgive him, or because he laid the hands of violence upon me
to force me to be his queen or mistress, which I forgive him not? 

But now to mitigate the seriousness of a cheerful artistic adventure. I noticed it, that several
German artists, stepping to the table leg as acquaintances, watching me and then went back and forth.
He, who had left me for a moment occurred to me again and said: "There's a lot of fun the
rumor that they were here, had already distributed, and the artists were aware of the single
unknown strangers. Now is one among us who, long since claimed that he had dealt with you,
yes he did have lived with you in a friendly relationship, what we do not believe it really
wanted. This was requested to consider and resolve the doubt, he assured But in short, you
are not, and the stranger no trace of your shape and appearance. Thus, at least cover the incognito
for the moment, and consequently there is something to laugh. "

I mingled happily, under the Kuenstlerschar and asked for the masters
of different Images, their art as I have not become known.

Finally drew me a picture very at the St. George the dragon conqueror and liberator young woman, shows.
No one could tell me the master. And there went out a small, modest, yet silent man and informed
me that it was of Pordenone, the Venetian, one of his best pictures in the you know all his
earnings. Now, could I even explain my affection well: the image had been expected of me because
I, with the Venetian school already precisely known, the virtues their masters knew how to
appreciate better.

The artist is instructive Heinrich Meyer, a Swiss, who with a friend
named Coella for some years studied here, reproducing the ancient
busts in Sepia excellent, and in art history is full of experience.

Rome, 7 November.

Now I am seven days here, and is gradually in my mind the general concept Town forth. We diligently
go back and forth, I'm the plans of the old and new Rome known, look at the ruins, the buildings,
visit one and the other villa greatest monuments are treated very slow, I only do my eyes and
see ' and go and come back, because you can only prepare for Rome in Rome.

Let us confess, however, it is a sour and sad business, ancient Rome from the new , Picking
out do but you must call and finally an invaluable satisfaction . Hope You meet traces of glory
and destruction, both about our Tag to go. What could be the barbarians, the architect of the
new Rome devastated.

If you like looking at a start, the two thousand years or more old, by the change of time as varied
and changed from the ground up and still the same soil, the same Mountain, and often the same
column and wall, and the people nor the traces of the old character, it will be a partaker of the
great decrees of fate, and so the viewer would be hard from start to develop, as follows Rome
on Rome, and not only the New on the old, but the different eras of the old and new even to
each other. Seeking herauszufuehlen only the first half, even the hidden points, then first make
nice Preliminary work with law completely, because since the fifteenth century to our Days
have excellent artists and scholars with these things all their lives busy through.

And this monstrous acts calmly at us when we rush to and fro in Rome to the highest objects
to arrive. Other places you have to go to the significant, here we are ueberdraengt it and
overcrowded. How do you and is, itself shows a scenic picture of all the way and ruins of palaces,
gardens and wildlife, the Far and Engen, small houses, stables, Triumphboegen and columns,
often all together so close that it could be placed on a leaf. You could write a thousand pencils,
what here is a pen! and then you're tired and exhausted from the stand and stare.

7 November 1786th

Excuse me but my friends if I to be invented taciturn, during a Passenger train pulls you on
the road, what you can, every day brings something new, and it informs, to think about it and
judge. But here it comes in a great school even where one days says so much that you can venture
from the day nothing to say. Yes, you would do well if, lingering
here for years, watched a Pythagorean silence.

On the same.

I'm quite comfortable.

The weather is like saying the Romans, gross, it's a south wind, Scirocco, which causes more
or less rain every day, I can but this weather not unpleasant to see, it's warm here, as in
our summer rainy days.

7 November.

Tischbein talents and his purposes and intentions of art I'm meeting more and more now and appreciate.
He presented his drawings and sketches, which give a lot of good and proclamation. By staying with
Bodmer are his thoughts on the first time of the human race been kept, where it was placed
on the ground and should solve the problem, to be master of the world.

Table leg, self-portrait. Drawing

As a clever introduction to the whole, he strived to the antiquity of the sensual world present.
Mountains, covered with magnificent forests, canyons, plucked from Wasserbäch, burned-out volcanoes,
barely quietly steaming. In the foreground is a power in the earth uebriggebliebener vieljaehrigen
floor of an oak tree, half exposed at its roots a Deer antlers, the strength of his attempts,
thought so well executed as sweet.

Then he added in a very remarkable man at the same time as the leaf and horse- every beast of the
earth, air and water, if not in strength, but superior to to List shown. The composition is extremely
beautiful, as it would have to a large oil painting Effectively do. A drawing of this, we must
have needed in Weimar.

Then he thinks at a meeting of the old, wise men and licensed, where he will take the opportunity
to represent actual figures. With the greatest enthusiasm, but he sketched on a Battle, where
two parties cavalry attack each other with equal fury, and although
at a point where they are separated by a vast gorge, over which the
horse with Largest effort can hinuebersetzen.

On defense is not to think here. Kuehner Attack, wild decision to make or fall into the abyss.
This image will give him the opportunity To give the knowledge he
has of the horse, the construction and movement, a very to develop
significant way.

These pictures then and a number of following and switched it wishes by a few Poems linked, which served
to explain what it represents, and which he, however confer again by certain body shapes and
charm.

The thought is nice, of course, only one had several years to be together, to such a Carry out works.

7
November.

The Lodges of Raphael and the great paintings of the "School of Athens", etc. have I only just
once seen, and there it is as if Homer from a partially extinguished, damaged Manuscript should study
out. The Pleasure of the first impression is imperfect, only when one has little by little
rather durchgesehn and studied, is quite the pleasure. On receive, the most Deckenstuecke of
the lodges, to present the biblical stories, painted fresh as yesterday, although few of Raphael's
own hand, but it does admirably according to his drawings and under his supervision.

7 November.

I sometimes had in earlier times the strange whim that I eagerly wished, well-informed by a man
from an art - and historically knowledgeable Englishman led to Italy to be, and now has it
all, however, made more beautiful than I could have imagined. Tischbein lived here so long
as my sincere friend, he lived here with the desire to show me Rome, our relationship is old
by letters, by re- Present, where would have a value guide can appear to me? Is my time only
restricted, then I shall enjoy the opportunity and learn.

And with all the I see ahead, wish that I will arrive, when I leave.

The 8th November.

My strange and perhaps whimsical half incognito bring me advantages
I have in could not think.

Since everyone obliged to ignore who I was, and so no one may speak of me with me, so will the
people have no choice but to be to speak for himself or subjects which are interesting, because
I learn now inconvenient, bringing everyone busy, or what some remarkable results and shows.
Councilor Reiffenstein was also found in the cricket, but as he's name, I had assumed, do not
suffer from a particular cause was, he baronisierte me quickly, and my name is now the Baron
against Rondanini over, so I am known enough more so than the Italians benennet people only after
the first name or nickname. Enough, I have my will and escape the endless inconvenience of me and
my Work must be accountable to.

9 November.

Sometimes I'm quiet as a moment and look over the highest peaks of the already Obtained. I
love to look back to Venice, to that great existence, the womb of the sea, like Pallas from
the head of Jupiter's sprung. Here I was, the Rotonda, the external as well as the inner, led
a joyful worship of their grandeur. In St. Peter I learn to understand how the art lift both the
nature all comparisons of measures can.

And so I was hinausgerueckt Apollo Belvedere from reality. For as by giving those buildings
the most correct drawings no idea, so here it is with the original of marble against the Gipsabguesse,
that I have known but very nice buffet.

The Apollo of Belvedere. Drawing by Bouchardon.

10, November 1786th

I now live here with a clarity and calm that I had no long feeling. My practice of seeing all
things as they are, and to read, my loyalty, the eye to be light to leave, my total alienation
from all pretensions come to me once again quite good stead and make
me most happy in the quiet.

All day a strange new Subject, every day fresh, big, strange images and a whole that we think
is long and dreaming, never reached by the imagination.

Today I was at the Pyramid of Cestius and evening on the Palatine
Hill, the top of the ruins the Kaiserpalaeste, stand there like Felsenwaende.

Thereof can be used together provide course not! Truly, there is nothing small, though perhaps
here and there and Scheltenswertes Tasteless, but even these had taken part in the general grandeur.

I
return now in my own back, but just so much going on at every opportunity, discover I have a feeling
that pleases me immensely, yes, I even dare to pronounce. Those who Ernst look around here
and eyes to see, to be solid, he has a concept of Solidity grasp that he never revived.

The mind is used to drive, get to a serious drought without, at a set being with joy. I am at
least it's as if I have the things of this world never really would have estimated as here. I am
the blessed consequences on my life.

And so let me rouse, welcome as it will give the order himself. I am not here to enjoy in my own way,
I will take pains me is the large items; learn and educate myself before I am forty years old.

11
November.

Today 'have I the nymph Egeria visited, then the track of Caracalla, which destroyed Tombs along
the Via Appia and the grave of Metella, the first one an idea of thick walls are. These people
worked for eternity, it was calculated on all only to the nonsense of the destroyer is not soft,
had it all. I eagerly right herzugewuenscht up. The remains of the great aqueduct are most venerable.
The beautiful, great purpose, to be impregnated by a nation so vast
institution!

In the evening we came to the Coliseo, it was already dusk. If you look at it, again all else
seems small, it is large that the image can not keep it in his soul, we remember only the smaller
again, and then you return back, it comes from a bigger again.

Frascati, 15 November.

The company is in bed, and I still write from the ink shell, drawn from what has been. We have
had some nice, rain-free days here, warm and friendly Sunshine that you can not miss the summer.
The area is very pleasant, the place is on a hill, instead of a mountain, and each step gives the
artist the most glorious Belongings. The view is unlimited, you can see Rome, and continue
to the lake, on the right side of the mountains of Tivoli and so on. In this fun area are farmhouses
fairly applied to pleasure, and as the old Romans had their villas have been here, so before
hundred years and more rich and arrogant Roemer their country houses on the most beautiful Spots
planted. For two days we go around here already, and there is always something new and attractive.

And
yet, it can hardly say whether the evenings to go yet hilarious as the day. Once the grand
mistress of the three-armed brass lamp on the large round table set and "Felicissima notte!" said,
has gathered all the parties and sets out the leaves before, which was drawn during the day
and outlined. On everyone, whether the subject would have to be favorably received if the character
is taken, and what such first general Fordernisse are what they are already at the first draft
account can give. Councilor Reiffenstein know these meetings by his insight and authority to
arrange and conduct.

This laudable institution but actually writes Philip Hackert ago, which limits taste to draw the
real prospects and execute knew. Artists and lovers, men and women, old and young, he did not allow
herself to rest, He cheered on each according to his gifts and powers to try to also, and went
before a good example.

This way of gathering a company and to maintain, has Councilor Reiffenstein
after the departure of that friend continued faithfully, and we find,
as Loeblich it was to arouse the active part of each.

The nature and status of the various members of society emerges in a graceful manner. Table
leg, for example, sees as a history painter, the landscape very different
from the landscape artist.

He finds major groups and other graceful, eloquent belongings there, where another nothing would perceive,
and as he chanced to catch some human naive train, it be it in children, peasants, beggars and
other people like nature, or at Animals, which he knows to present
a few characteristic strokes even happy and backed by the conversation
always pleasant new material.

Will start the conversation, it is also to Hackert legacy in Sulzer's "theory" read, and if you
like from a higher point with the works are not entirely satisfied may be, but we notice with
pleasure the good influence on people, on a middle level of education available.

Rome, 17 November.

We are back! Last night was a terrible downpour
with thunder and lightning, now rains continue and it's always warm
here.

But I can only describe with few words, the happiness of this
day. I have the Freskogemaelde by Andrea della Valle in Dominichin,
adjust the Farnese gallery of Carracci seen. Of course too much for
months, let alone for a day.

18 November.

It is again beautiful
weather, a bright, friendly, warm day.

I saw in the Farnesina, the
story of Psyche, whose colorful replicas as long as my Room cheer,
then to St. Peter in Montorio, the "Transfiguration" by Raphael. Everything
old Known as friends you have made in the distance through correspondence,
and the one now sees face to face. Living as yet entirely what is
different, every true relationship and Disproportion in favor of immediately.
 At
the least, though they but see him from time to time, all the dwellers in the wilderness obey
him, as we do, and ill does it go, as you have learned, with those dwellers in cities who know
not the power which breathes beneath that tattered robe."

"I thank you," answered Asti. "I think with you that this Wanderer is a spirit, and a great
one, so great that I will not name his name. Captains, my Lady is ready to march towards the
City of Gold, whither you will lead us."

For day after day, for week after week, for month after month, they marched southward and westward
across the Desert, and in the centre of their host, mounted upon camels, rode Tua and Asti
veiled. Once the hillmen attacked them in a defile of some rugged mountains, but they beat
them back, and once there was a great battle with other tribes of the wilderness, who, hearing
that they had a goddess among them, sought to capture her for themselves. These tribes also
they defeated with slaughter, for when the fight hung in the balance Tua herself headed the
charge of her horsemen, and at the sight of her in her white robes the enemy fled amazed. Once
also they camped for two whole months in an oasis, waiting till rain should fall, for the country
beyond lacked water. At length it came, and they went on again, on and on over the endless
lands, till on a certain night they pitched their tent upon a hill.

At the first brightening of the dawn Tua and Asti went out, and there, beneath them, near to
the banks of a great river, which they knew for the Nile, they saw the pyramids and the temples
of Napata the Golden, the southern city of Amen, and thanked the gods who had brought them
here in safety.

While they still gazed upon its glories in the red light of the rising sun the captain of the
desert men appeared, and bowed before them.

"Divine Lady," he said, "woman or goddess, whichever you may be, we have fulfilled the command
given to us by Kepher, the ancient King of the Wilderness. Beneath you lies Napata whither
we have journeyed through so many weary months, but we would draw no nearer to its walls, who
from generation to generation are sworn not to enter any city save in war. Lady, our task is
done, and our men murmur to be led back to their own place, where their wives and children
await them, ere, thinking that we are enemies, the people of Napata sally forth to attack us."

"It is well," answered Tua. "I thank you and the gods shall give you your reward. Leave us,
and go back to your homes, but before you go, take a gift from me."

Then she sent for the gold that they had gathered in their trading in the city of Tat, and
gave it to be divided among them, a great and precious treasure. Only the pearls she kept,
with a little of the gold. So the captains saluted her, and in the mists of the morning they
and their swarthy host stole away, and soon were hidden in a cloud of dust.

From the backs of their camels Tua and Asti watched them go like a dream of the night. Then
with no word spoken between them, for their lips were sealed with hope and wonder, wrapping
themselves in their dark cloaks, they rode down to the highway by the banks of the Nile, which
led to the walls of Napata. Mingling with other travellers, they passed through the Field of
Pyramids, and coming to the beautiful northern gate that was covered over with gold, waited
there, for this gate was not yet opened. A woman who led three asses laden with green barley
and vegetables, which she purposed to sell in the market-place, fell into talk with them, asking
them whence they came.

Asti answered, from the city of Meroe, adding that they were singers and dealers in pearls.

"Then you have come to the right place," answered the woman, "for pearls are rare at Napata,
which is so far from the sea; also it is said that the young King loves singing if it be good."

"The young King?" asked Asti. "What is his name, and where is the old king?"

"You cannot have dwelt long in Meroe, Strangers," answered the woman suspiciously, "or you
would know that the old King dwells with Osiris beneath yonder pyramid, where the general of
the Pharaoh of Egypt, he who rules here now, buried him after the great battle. Oh! it is a
strange story, and I do not know the rights of it who sell my stuff and take little heed of
such things. But at the last high Nile before one this general came with three thousand soldiers
of Egypt, and the body of the Prince of Kesh, whom it seems he had slain somewhere, it is said
because both of them sought the favour of the Queen of Egypt. As they tell, this was the command
of that Queen--that he should submit himself to the King of Napata to be judged for his crime.
This he did, and the King in his fury commanded that he should be hanged from the mast of the
sacred boat of Amen. The general answered that he was ready to be hanged if the King could
hang him. Then there was a war between the people of Napata and the Egyptians, aided by many
of the soldiers of the city who hated their master and rebelled against his rule, which was
ever cruel. The end of it was that the Egyptians and the rebels won, and the King having fallen
in the fight, they crowned the Egyptian general in his place.

"His name?--Oh, I forget it, he has so many, but he is a goodly man to look at, and all love
him although he is mad. See, the gates are open at last. Farewell," and dragging her asses
by the halter, the peasant woman mingled with the crowd and was gone.

Tua and Asti also mingled with the crowd, and rode on up a wide street till they came to a
square planted round with trees, on one side of which was built a splendid palace. Here they
halted their camels, not knowing whither they should go, and as they stood irresolute the gates
of the palace opened and through them came a body of horsemen clad in armour.

"See the writing on their shields," whispered Asti.

Tua looked and read, and lo! there in the royal cartouche was her own name, and after it new
titles--Queen of the Upper and the Lower Land, Opener of the Gates of the South, Divine Lady
of Napata by grace of Amen, Father of the Gods.

"It seems that I have subjects here," she murmured, "who elsewhere have none," then ceased.

For now through the gate rode one mounted on a splendid horse, whose shape seemed familiar
to her even while he was far away.

"Who is that?" faltered Tua.

"My heart tells me it is Rames my son," answered Asti, grasping at her saddle-rope.

CHAPTER XVII

TUA FINDS HER LOVER

Rames it was without a doubt; Rames grown older and stern and sad of face, but still Rames,
and no other man, and oh! their eyes swam and their hearts beat at the sight of him.

"Say, shall we declare ourselves?" asked Asti.

"Nay," answered Tua, "not here and now. He would not believe, and we cannot unveil before all
these men. Also, first I desire to learn more. Let him pass."

Rames rode on till he came opposite to where the two women sat on their white camels beneath
a tree, when something seemed to attract his gaze to them. He looked once carelessly and turned
his head away. He looked a second time, and again turned his head, though more slowly. He looked
a third time, and his eyes remained fixed upon those two veiled women seated on their camels
beneath the trees. Then, as though acting upon some impulse, he pulled upon his horse's bit,
and rode up to them.

"Who are you, Stranger Ladies," he asked, "who own such fine camels?"

Tua bowed her head that the folds of her veil might hide her shape, but Asti answered in a
feigned voice:

"Sir, both of us are merchants, and one is a harper and a singer. We have travelled hither
up the Nile to the Golden City because we understand that in Napata pearls are rare, and such
we have to sell. Also we were told that the new King of this city loved good singing, and my
companion, who sings and harps, learned her art in Egypt, even at Thebes the holy. But who
are you, Sir, that question us?"

"Lady," answered Rames, "I am an Egyptian who holds this town on behalf of the Queen of Egypt
whom once I knew. Or perhaps I should say that I hold it on behalf of the Pharaoh of Egypt,
since my spies tell me that the Star of Amen has taken Abi, Prince of Memphis, to husband,
although they add that he finds her a masterful wife," and he laughed bitterly.

"Sir," replied Asti, "it is long since we left holy Thebes, some years indeed, and we know
nothing of these things, who ply our trade from place to place. But if you are the governor
of this town, show us, we pray you, as countrywomen of yours, where we may lodge in safety,
and at your leisure this afternoon permit that we exhibit our pearls before you, and when that
is done, and you have bought or refused them, as you may wish, that my companion should sing
to you some of the ancient songs of Egypt."

"Ladies," answered Rames, "I am a soldier who would rather buy swords than pearls. Also, as
it chances, I am a man who dwells alone, one in whose household no women can be found. Yet
because you are of my country, or by Amen I know not why! I grant you your request. I go out
to exercise this company in the arts of war, but after sundown you shall come to my palace,
and I will see your wares and hear your songs. Till then, farewell. Officer," he added to a
captain who had followed him, "take these Egyptians and their camels and give them a lodging
in the guest-house, where they will not be molested, and at sundown bring them to me."

Then, still staring at them as though they held his eyes in their hearts, Rames departed, and
the captain led them to their lodging.

It was the hour of sundown, and Tua, adorned in beautiful white raiment, broidered with royal
purple, that she carried in her baggage on the camel, with her long hair combed out and scented,
a necklace of great pearls upon her bosom, a veil flung over her head, and her harp of gold
and ivory in her hand, waited to be led before Rames. Asti, his mother, waited also, but she
was clad in a plain black robe, and over her head was a black veil. Presently that captain
who had shown them their lodging, came to them and asked if they were ready to be led before
the Viceroy of Napata.

"Viceroy?" answered Asti, "I thought he was a King."

"So he is, my good Woman," replied the captain, "but it his fancy to call himself the Viceroy
of Neter-Tua, Star of Amen, wife of Abi the Usurper who rules in Egypt. A mad fancy when he
might be a Pharaoh on his own account, but so it is."

"Well, Sir," said Asti, "we merchants have nothing to do with these high matters; lead us to
this Pharaoh, or General, or Viceroy, with whom we hope to transact business."

So the captain conducted them to a side gate of the palace, and thence through various passages
and halls, in some of which Tua recognised officers of her own whom she had commanded to accompany
Rames, to an apartment of no great size, where he bade them be seated. Presently a door opened,
and through it came Rames, plainly dressed in the uniform of an Egyptian general, on which
they saw he wore no serpent crest or other of the outward signs of royalty. Only on his right
hand that lacked the little finger, gleamed a certain royal ring, which Tua knew. With him
also were several captains to whom he talked of military affairs.

Seeing the two women, he bowed to them courteously, and asked them to forgive him for having
kept them waiting for him. Then he said:

"What was it that you wished to show me, Ladies? Oh! I remember, precious stones. Well, I fear
me that you have brought them to a bad market, seeing that although Napata is called the City
of Gold, she needs all her wealth for her own purposes, and I draw from it only a general's
pay, and a sum for the sustenance of my household, which is small. Still, let me look at your
wares, for if I do not buy myself, perhaps I may be able to find you a customer."

Now when they saw the young man's noble face and bearing, and heard his simple words, the hearts
of Asti and Tua, his mother and his love, beat so hard within their breasts that for a while
they could scarcely speak. Glad were they, indeed, that the veils they wore hid their troubled
faces from his eyes, which, as in the morning, lingered on them curiously.

At length, controlling herself with an effort, Asti answered:

"Perchance, Lord, the Great Lady your wife, or the ladies your companions, will buy if you do not."

"Have I not already told you, Merchant," asked Rames angrily, "that I have no wife, and no
companions that are not men?"

"You said so, Sir," she replied humbly, always speaking in her feigned voice, "yet forgive
us if we believed you not, since in our journeyings my daughter and I have seen many princes,
and know that such a thing is contrary to their nature. Still we will show you our wares, for
surely all the men in Napata are not unmarried."

Then, without more ado, she drew out a box of scented cedar and, opening it, revealed a diadem
of pearls worked into the shape of the royal uræus, which they had fashioned thus at Tat, and
also a few of their largest single gems.

"Beautiful, indeed," said Rames, looking at them, "though there is but one who has the right
to wear this crown, the divine Queen of the Upper and the Lower Land," and he sighed.

"Nay, Lord," replied Asti, "for surely her husband might wear it also."

"It would sit but ill on the fat head of Abi, from all I hear, Lady," he broke in, laughing
bitterly.

"Or," went on Asti, taking no heed of his words, "a general who had conquered a great country
could usurp it, and find none to reprove him, especially if he himself happened to be of the
royal blood."

Now Rames looked at her sharply.

"You speak strange words," he said, "but doubtless it is by chance. Merchant, those pearls
of yours are for richer men than I am, shut them in the box again, and let the lady, your daughter,
sing some old song of Egypt, for such I long to hear."

"So be it, Lord," answered Asti. "Still, keep the diadem as a gift, since it was made for you
alone, and may yet be useful to you--who can know? It is the price we pay for liberty to trade
in your dominions. Nay, unless you keep it my daughter shall not sing."

"Let it lie there, then, most princely Merchant, and we will talk of the matter afterwards.
Now for the song."

Then, her moment come at last, Tua stood up, and holding the ivory harp beneath her veil, she
swept its golden chords. Disguising her voice, as Asti had done, she began to sing, somewhat
low, a short and gentle love-song, which soon came to an end.

"It is pretty," said Rames, when she had finished, "and reminds me of I know not what. But
have you no fuller music at your command? If so, I would listen to it before I bid you good-night."

She bent her head and answered almost in a whisper:

"Lord, if you wish it, I will sing you the story of one who dared to set his heart too high,
and of what befell him at the hands of an angry goddess."

"Sing on," he answered. "Once I heard such a story--elsewhere."

Then Tua swept her harp and sang again, but this time with all her strength and soul. As the
first glorious notes floated from her lips Rames rose from his seat, and stood staring at her
entranced. On went the song, and on, as she had sung it in the banqueting hall of Pharaoh at
Thebes, so she sang it in the chamber of Rames at Napata. The scribe dared the sanctuary, the
angry goddess smote him cold in death, the high-priestess wailed and mourned, the Queen of
Love relented, and gave him back his life again. Then came that last glorious burst when, lifted
up to heaven, the two lovers, forgiven, purged, chanted their triumph to the stars, and, by
slow degrees, the music throbbed itself to silence.

Look! white-faced, trembling, Rames clung to a pillar in his chamber, while Tua sank back upon
her chair, and the harp she held slipped from her hand down upon the floor.

"Whence came that harp?" he gasped. "Surely there are not two such in the world? Woman, you
have stolen it. Nay, how can you have stolen the music, and the voice as well? Lady, forgive
me, I have no thought of evil, but oh! grant me a boon. Why, I will tell you afterwards. Grant
me a boon--let me look upon your face."

Tua lifted her hands, and undid the fastening of her veil, which slipped from her to her feet,
showing her in the rich array of a prince of Egypt. His eyes met her beautiful eyes, and for
a while they gazed upon each other like folk who dream.

"What trick is this?" he said angrily at last. "Before me stands the Star of Amen, Egypt's
anointed Queen. The harp she bears was the royal gift of the Prince of Kesh, he who fell that
night beneath my sword. The voice is Egypt's voice, the song is Egypt's song. Nay, how can
it be? I am mad, you are magicians come to mock me, for that Star, Amen's daughter, reigns
a thousand miles away with the lord she chose, Abi, her own uncle, he who, they say, murdered
Pharaoh. Get you gone, Sorceress, lest I cause the priests of Amen, whereof you also make a
mock, to cast you to the flames for blasphemy."

Slowly, very slowly, Tua opened the wrappings about her throat, revealing the Sign of Life
that from her birth was stamped above her bosom.

"When they see this holy mark, think you that the priests of Amen will cast me to the flames,
O Royal Son of Mermes?" asked Tua softly.

"Why not?" he answered. "If you have power to lie in one thing, you have power to lie in all.
She who can steal the loveliness of Egypt's self, can also steal the signet of the god."

"Say, did you, O Rames, also steal that other signet on your hand, a Queen's gift, I think,
that once a Pharaoh wore? Say also how did you lose the little finger of that hand? Was it
perchance in the maw of a certain god that dwells in the secret pool of a temple at holy Thebes?"

So Tua spake, and waited a while, but Rames said nothing. He opened his mouth to answer, indeed,
but a dumbness sealed his lips.

"Nurse," she went on presently, "I cannot persuade this Lord that I am Egypt and no other.
Try you."

So Asti loosed her black veil, and let it fall about her feet. He stared at her noble features
and grey hair, then, uttering a great cry of "Mother, my Mother, who they swore to me was dead
in Memphis," he flung himself upon her breast, and there burst into weeping.

"Aye, Rames," said Asti presently, "your Mother, she who bore you, and no other woman, and
with her one who because her royal heart loves you now as from the first, from moon to moon
for two whole years has braved the dangers of the desert, and of wicked men, till at last Amen
her father brings her safely to your side. Now do you believe?"

"Aye," answered Rames, "I believe."

"Then, O faithful Captain," said Tua, "take this gift from Egypt's Queen, which a while ago
you thrust aside, and be its Lord and mine," and lifting the diadem of pearls crested with
the royal uræi she set it on his brow, as once before she had done in that hour of dawn when
she vowed herself to him in Thebes.

It was night, and all their wonderful story had been told.

"Such is our tale, Rames my Son," said Asti, "and long may you search before you find another
that will match it. Now tell us yours."

"It is short, Mother," he answered. "Obeying the commands of her Majesty yonder," and he bowed
towards Tua, who sat at the further side of the table at which they ate, "I travelled up the
Nile to this city. As the old king, the father of the Prince of Kesh, would have slain me I
attacked him first by the help of my Egyptians and his own subjects, and--well, he died. Moreover,
none regretted him, for he was a bad king, and I stepped into his place, and ever since have
been engaged in righting matters which they needed. Long ago I would have returned to Egypt
and reported myself, only my spies told me of all that had happened there. They told me, for
instance, of the murder of Pharaoh, by the witchcraft of Abi and his companions; and they told
me that Pharaoh's daughter, the Star of Amen, forgetting all things and the oath she swore
to me, had married her old uncle Abi that she might save her life and power."

"And you believed them, Rames?" asked Tua reproachfully.

"What else could I do but believe, Lady, seeing that those same spies swore that they had seen
your Majesty seated upon your throne at Memphis, and elsewhere, and causing Abi to run to and
fro like a little dog, and do your bidding in all things? How could I know that it was your
Double, and not yourself that married Abi?"

"I think that Abi knows to-day," answered Tua, "since it seems that a Ka makes but a bad wife
to any man. But now what shall we do?"

"Will you not first marry me, Lady?" suggested Rames. "Afterwards, we can think."

"Aye," she answered, "I will marry you as I have promised, but in one place only, the temple
of Amen in Egypt. First win me back my throne, then ask for my hand."

"It shall be done," he answered, "though how I know not, seeing that another sits upon that
throne of yours, who, perhaps, will not be willing to bid it farewell."

"We will send her a message, Son," said Asti. "Now leave us, for we must sleep."

"Where is your messenger, Mother?" asked Rames as he went.

"Have you known me all these years, my Son, and not learned that I have servants whom you cannot
see?" answered Asti.

It was midnight, and in their chamber of the palace of Rames, Asti and Tua knelt side by side
in prayer to Amen, Father of the Gods. Then, their petitions finished, Asti rose to her feet,
and once again, as in the pylon tower at Memphis, uttered the awful words that in bygone days
had been spoken to her by the spirit of Ahura the divine in Osiris.

There was a sound as of whispering, a sound as of beating wings. Lo! in the shadow beyond the
lamplight a mist gathered that brightened by degrees and took shape, the shape of a royal woman
clad in the robes and ornaments of Egypt's Queen, whose face was as the face of Neter-Tua,
only prouder and more unearthly. In silence it stood before them scanning them with its glittering
eyes.

"Whence come you, O Double?" asked Asti.

"From that place where your command found me, O Mistress of Secret Things, from the house of
Abi at Thebes, wherein he seems to rule as Pharaoh," the Form answered in its cold voice.

"How fares it with Abi and with Egypt, O Double?"

"With Abi it fares but ill; he wastes in toil and fear and longings, and knows no happy hour.
But with Egypt it fares well. Never, O Lady of Strength, was she more great than she is to-day,
for in all things I have fulfilled the commandments that were laid upon me, and now I desire
to rest in that bosom whence I came," and she pointed to Tua, who stood and watched.

"Not yet, O Double, for there is still work for you to do, and then you shall be at peace till
the day of the last Awakening. Hearken: Return to Thebes, and tell a false tale in the ears
of Abi and his councillors. Say that Rames the Egyptian, who has seized the rule of Kesh, has
declared himself Pharaoh of Egypt by right of race, and your husband by the promise of him
who ruled before you whom Abi did to death. Cause this Abi to gather a great army, and to march
southward to make an end of Rames. But secretly whisper into the ears of the generals of this
army, that it is true the divine Pharaoh who is gone promised you in marriage to Rames with
your own consent, and by the command of Amen, Father of the Gods, and of your Spirit. Whisper
to them that Amen is wrath with Abi because of his crime, as he will show them in due season,
and that those who rebel against him shall have his love and favour. At the Gateway of the
South, whence the Nile rushes northward between great walls of rock, Rames shall meet the army
of Abi. With him will come her of whom you are, and I whom you must obey; also perchance another
who is greater than all of us. There at the Gateway of the South your task shall be accomplished,
and you shall find the rest you seek. It is said."

"I hear the command, and it shall be done," answered the Ka in its cold, passionless voice.
"Only, Lady of the Secrets, Doer of the Will Divine, delay not, lest, outworn, I should break
back like a flame to yonder breast that is my home, slaying as I come, and leaving wreck behind
me."

Then as the figure had appeared, so also it disappeared, growing faint by degrees, and vanishing
away into the night out of which it came.

It was morning at Thebes, and Abi sat in the great hall of Pharaoh transacting business of
the State, while at his side stood Kaku the Vizier. Changed were both of them, indeed, since
they had plotted the death of their guest and king at Memphis, for now Abi was so worn with
work and fear and wretchedness, that his royal robes hung about him in loose folds, while Kaku
had become an old, old man, who trembled as he walked.

"Is the business finished, Officer?" asked Abi impatiently.

"Nay, Mighty Lord," answered Kaku, "there is still enough to keep you sitting here till noon,
and after that you must receive the Council and the Embassies."

"I will not receive them. Let them wait till another day. Knave, would you work me to death,
who have never known an hour's rest or peace since the happy time when I ruled as Prince of
Memphis?"

"Lord," answered Kaku, bowing humbly, "weary or no you must receive them, for so it has been
decreed by her Majesty the Queen, whose command may not be broken."

"The Queen!" exclaimed Abi in a low voice, rolling his hollow eyes around him as though in
fear. "Oh, Kaku, would that I had never beheld the Queen. I tell you that she is not a woman,
as indeed you know well, but a fiend with a heart of ice, and the venomous cunning of a snake.
I am called Pharaoh, yet am but her puppet to carry out her decrees. I am called her husband,
yet she is still no wife to me, or to any, although all men love her, and by that love are
ofttimes brought to doom. Last night again she vanished from my side as I sat listening to
her orders, and after a while, lo! there she was as before, only, as it seemed to me, somewhat
weary. Still, the summit of Mount Vesuvius has not become clear, since I was up there.
These last nights one could see him sometimes flame, now he pauses again, one would expect stronger
eruption.

The storms these days have shown us a wonderful sea, because the waves were in paying homage to
their nature and form of study, nature is the only book that at all Leaves large salary offers. Other
hand, gives me the theater did not enjoy everything. They play here in the spiritual fasting
operas, which are different from the secular in nothing, than that ballets are not inserted between
the files, but otherwise as colorful as possible. In the theater,
St. Carlo, they lead to "destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar.

Kaku turned to obey, when suddenly heralds entered the empty hall, crying:

"Her Majesty the Queen waits without with a great company, and humbly craves audience of her
good lord, the divine Pharaoh of the Upper and the Lower Land."

Abi and Kaku looked at each other, and despair was in their eyes.

"Let her Majesty enter," said the King in a low voice.

The heralds retired, and presently through the cedar doors appeared the Queen in state. She
was splendid to behold, splendid in her proud beauty, splendid in her dress, and in her royal
ornaments. On she swept up the hall, attended by Merytra, who bore her fan and cushion, for
it was her pleasure that this woman should wait upon her day and night without pause or rest,
although she who had once been so handsome now was worn almost to nothingness with toil and
terror. Behind Merytra came guards and high-priests, and after them the great lords of the
Council, who were called the King's Companions and the generals of the army.

On she swept up the hall till reaching the foot of the throne whereon Abi sat, she motioned
to Merytra to place the cushion upon its step, and knelt, saying:

"I am come as a loyal wife to make a humble prayer to Pharaoh my Lord in the presence of his
Court."

"Rise and speak on, Great Lady," answered Abi. "It is not fit that you should kneel to me."

"Nay, it is most fit that Pharaoh's Queen should kneel to Pharaoh when she seeks his divine
favour." Yet she rose, and, seating herself in a chair that had been brought, spoke thus:

"O Pharaoh, last night I dreamed a dream. I dreamed of the Count Rames, son of Mermes, the
last of that royal race which ruled before our House in Egypt. I mean that man who slew the
Prince of Kesh in this very hall, and whom, my Father being sick, I sent to Napata, to be judged
by the King of Kesh, but who, it seems, overthrew that king and took his kingdom in the name
of Egypt.

"I dreamed that this bold and able man, not satisfied with the rich kingdom of Kesh, has made
a scheme to attack Egypt; to slay you, most glorious Lord, to proclaim himself Pharaoh by right
of ancient blood, and more--to take me, your faithful wife, to be his wife, and thereby secure
his throne."

"Without doubt, Queen, this turbulent Rames might think of such things," said Abi, "and so
far your dream may be true; yet it should be remembered that at present he is at Napata, which
is a very long way off, and has probably only a small army at his command, so why should you
trouble about what he thinks?"

"O Pharaoh, that was not all my dream, for in it I saw two pictures. The first was of this
bold Rames attacking Thebes, and conquering it, yes, and dragging me away to be his wife over
your very corpse, O Pharaoh. The second was of you and your army meeting him at the Gate of
the South Land, and slaying him, and taking possession of the kingdom of Kesh, and its golden
city, and ruling them for Egypt, until you die."

"Here be two dreams, O Queen," said Abi. "Tell us now, which would you follow, for both of
them cannot be right?"

"How can I know, Pharaoh, and how can you know? Yet by your side stands one who will know,
for he is the first of magicians, and a chosen interpreter of the heart of the gods. Grant
that he may make this matter clear," and she pointed to Kaku, who stood by the throne.

"Divine Lady," stammered Kaku, "the thing is too high for me. I have no message, I cannot tell
you----"

"You were ever over-modest, Kaku," said the Queen. "Command him, O Pharaoh, to shed the light
of his wisdom on us, for without doubt he knows the truth."

"Yes, yes," said Abi, "he knows it, he knows everything. Kaku, delay not, interpret the dream
of her Majesty."

"I cannot, I will not," spluttered the old astrologer. "Ask my wife, the Lady Merytra there,
she is wiser than I am."

"My good friend Merytra has already told me her mind," said the Queen, "now we wait for yours.
A prophet must speak when the gods call on him, or," she added slowly, "he must cease to be
a prophet who betrays the gods by hiding their high counsel."

Now Kaku could find no way of escape, so, since he feared the very name of Rames, within himself
he determined that he would interpret the dream in the sense that Pharaoh should await the
attack of this Rames at Thebes, and while every ear listened to him, thus began his tale. Yet
as he spoke he felt the glittering eyes of that spirit who was called the Queen, fix themselves
upon him and compel his tongue, so that he said just what he did not mean to say.

"A light shines in me," he cried, "and I see that the second vision of her Majesty is the true
vision. You must go up with your army to the Gate of the South, O Pharaoh, and there meet this
usurper, Rames, that these matters may be brought to their appointed end."

"Their appointed end? What appointed end?" shouted Abi.

"Doubtless that which her Majesty dreamed," answered Kaku. "At least, it is laid upon me to
tell you that you must go up to the Gate of the South."

"Then I wish that the Gate of the South were laid upon you also, O Evil Prophet," exclaimed
Abi. "For two years only have I ruled in Egypt, and lo! three wars have been my portion, a
war against the people of Syria, a war against the desert men, and a war against the Nine Bow
barbarians that invaded the Low Lands. Must I now, in my age, undertake another war against
the terrible sons of Kesh also? Let this dog, Rames, come, if come he will, and I will hang
him here at the gates of Thebes."

"Nay, nay, O Pharaoh," replied Kaku, "it is laid upon me to tell you that you must hang him
in the desert hundreds of miles away from Thebes. That is the interpretation of the vision;
that is the command of the gods."

"The gods have spoken by the mouth of their prophet," cried the Queen in a thrilling, triumphant
voice. "Now Pharaoh, Priests, Councillors, and Captains of Egypt, let us make ready to travel
to the Gate of the South, and there hang the dog Rames in the desert land, that thus Egypt
and Egypt's King and Egypt's Queen may be freed from danger, and rest in peace, and the wealth
of the City of Gold be divided amongst you all."

"Aye, aye," answered the Priests, Councillors, and Captains, the shrill voice of Kaku leading
the chorus, still against his will, "let us go up at once, and let her Majesty accompany us."

"Yes," said the Queen, "I will accompany you, for though I be but a woman, shall I shrink from
what Pharaoh, my dear Lord, dares? We will sail at the new moon."

That night Abi and Kaku stood face to face.

"What is this that you have done?" asked Abi. "Do you not remember the words which dead Pharaoh
spoke in the awful vision that came to me that night at Memphis, when he bade me take the Royal
Loveliness which I desired to be my wife? Do you not remember that he bade me also reign in
her right until I met 'one Rames, Son of Mermes' and with him a Beggar-man who is charged with
another message for me?"

"I remember," answered Kaku in a hollow voice.

"What, then, is this message, Man, that will come from Rames or the Beggar? Is it not the message
of my death and yours, of us whose tombs were finished but yesterday?"

"It may be so, Lord."

"Then why did you interpret the dream of the Queen in the sense that I must hurry southwards
to meet this very Rames--and my doom?"

"Because I could not help it," groaned Kaku. "That spirit who is called a Queen compelled me.
Abi, there is no escape for us; we are in the net of Fate--unless, unless you dare----" and
he looked meaningly at the sword that hung by Pharaoh's side.

"Nay, Kaku," he answered, "I dare not. Let us live while we may, knowing what awaits us beyond
the gate."

"Aye," moaned Kaku, "beyond the Gate of the South, where we shall find Rames the Avenger, and
that Beggar who is charged with a message for us."

CHAPTER XVIII

THE JUDGMENT OF THE GODS

Three more months had gone by, and the great host of Pharaoh was encamped beyond the Southern
Gate, and the warships of Pharaoh were anchored thick on either bank of the Nile. There they
lay prepared for battle, for spies had reported to them that the general, Rames, Lord of Kesh,
was advancing northward swiftly, though with so small an army that it could easily be destroyed.
Therefore Abi waited there to destroy it without further toil, nor did his terrible Queen gainsay
him. She also seemed content to wait.

One evening as the sun sank it was told to them that the troops of Rames had appeared, and
occupied the mountains on the right bank of the Nile, being encamped around that temple of
Amen which had stood there for thousands of years.

"Good," said the Queen. "To-morrow Pharaoh will go up against him and make an end of this matter.
Is it not so, Pharaoh?" and she looked at him with her glittering eyes.

"Yes, yes," answered Abi, "the sooner the better, for I am worn out, and would return to Thebes.
Yet," he added in a weak, uncertain voice, "I misdoubt me of this war, I know not why. What
is it that you stare at in the heavens so fixedly, O Kaku?"

Now the eyes of the Council were turned on Kaku the Vizier, and they perceived that he was
much disturbed.

"Look," he said, pointing with a trembling finger towards the skies.

They looked, and saw hanging just above the evening glow a very bright and wonderful star,
and near to it, another, paler star which presently it seemed to cover.

"The Star of Amen," gasped Kaku in a voice that shook, "and your star, O Pharaoh. The Star
of Amen eats it up, your star goes out, and will never be seen again by living man. Oh! Abi,
that which I foresaw years and years ago has come to pass. Your day is done, and your night
is at hand, O Abi."

"If so," shouted Abi in his rage and terror, "be sure of this, Dog--that you shall share it."

As he spoke a sound of screams drew near, and presently into the midst of them rushed Merytra,
the wife of Kaku.

"The vengeance of the gods," she screamed, "the vengeance of the gods! Listen, Abi. But now
this very evening as I slept in my pavilion, who can never sleep at night, there appeared to
me the spirit of dead Pharaoh, of Pharaoh whom we slew by magic, and he said: 'Tell the murderer,
Abi, and the wizard-rogue, Kaku, your husband, that I summon both of them to meet me ere another
sun is set, and Woman, come you with them.' Death is at our door, Abi, death and the terrible
vengeance of the god!" and Merytra fell down foaming in a fit. 

From the mass of bodies, the thimble in the summary report on "Procedure and apparatus for disinfection
of the Telephone, "describes the general or even none but only reaches further use, a fact that
their practical uselessness of Sufficient evidence. Devices that work automatically when removing
and adding the remote handset, in connection with the mechanism of the telephone generate ozone or
hot air, are in their design too complex and consequently too costly to further spread to find.

Suffice
it in any case, the cleaning of the telephone by a simple daily Rub with or without disinfecting solutions.
For purely aesthetic reasons, it is recommended to achieve with the
treatment, a deodorizing the bell - but it should , Found that the
bell for use by persons who are afflicted with bad breath are to leave
for a long time a disagreeable scent.

Grossly innumerable problems as they could often be observed by me were to be avoided rather
if you would give the bell a bright coat of paint. Dirt would rather perceived the audience itself
would push for a pollution of the telephones and have been made by
the Keeping clean can be easily convinced.

* * * * *

                   In conclusion, it is my pleasant duty, Lord Privy Medical Professor
Dr. Loeffler for the transfer of work and the many suggestions as
they execute my warmest Thanks to pronounce.

Also I do not want to miss, Dr. Walter for his consistently to thank willing assistance in the bacteriological
examinations.


It was midnight, and while they still searched, by the light of the moon a tall figure clad
in tattered robes, who bore a thornwood staff in his hand, and had a white beard that fell
down below his middle, was perceived walking to and fro about the camp.

"Who is that fellow?" asked Abi, and as he spoke the figure cried aloud in a great voice:

"Listen, Councillors, Captains, and Soldiers of Egypt, to the command of Amen, spoken by the
lips of his messenger, Kepher the Wanderer. Lift no sword against Rames, Lord of Kesh, for
he is my servant, and shall be Pharaoh over you, and husband of your Queen, and father of kings
to come. Seize Abi the usurper, the murderer of Pharaoh, his brother, and Kaku the sorcerer,
and Merytra the traitress, and lead them at the dawn to my temple upon yonder hill, where I
will declare my commands to you in the sanctuary of the temple. So shall peace be upon you
and all Egypt, and the breath of life remain in your nostrils."

Now hearing these fearful words, and remembering dead Pharaoh's prophecy of a Beggar who should
bring a message to him, Abi drew his sword and rushed at the man. But ere ever he came there,
the Wanderer was gone, and lo! they heard him repeating his message far away. Thither they
ran also, but now the words of doom were being called upon the ships, and on their prows they
saw his tall shape stand--first on this and then on that.

"It is the gods who speak," cried the priests, "let us obey the gods!" and suddenly they flung
themselves upon Abi and bound him, and Kaku and Merytra they bound also, waiting for the dawn.
But of the tall, white-bearded man in beggar's robes they saw and heard no more.

At that same time Tua slept in a chamber of the temple upon the hill, while Asti watched her.
Presently a wind blew in the chamber, and Asti, looking up, became aware of a Shape that she
knew well, the very shape of Tua who slept upon the bed.

"What is your will, O Double?" asked Asti.

"My will is that you give me rest," answered the Ka. "My task is accomplished, I am weary.
Speak the secret words of power that you have, and let me return to her from whom I came, and
in her bosom sleep till the great Day of Awakening."

So Asti, knowing that she was commanded so to do, uttered those secret words, and as she spoke
them the glorious Shape seemed to grow faint and fade away. Allan's publications are to
assess only as random observations. The audience in the widespread fear of a Possibility of infection
through the use of the telephone is therefore to be completely unfounded rejected.
 That which went forth from you by the command of Amen has returned
to you again, its duty done. Rise up now and adorn yourself, for this is your day of victory
and marriage."

As the sun rose Tua went forth more beautiful than the morning, and at the gates of the temple
found Rames awaiting her, clad in his armour, while from the mists below came a sound as of
an army approaching.

"What passes?" asked Tua, looking at him, and there was more love in her blue eyes than there
is water in the Nile at flood.

"I think that Abi attacks us, Lady," he said, bowing the knee to her, "and I am fearful for
you, for our men are few, and his are many."

"Be not afraid of Abi, or of anything, O Rames, though it is true that this day you must lose
your liberty," she answered with a sweet and gentle smile, and he wondered at her words.

Then, before he could speak again, two of the captains of his outposts ran in and reported
that without were priests and heralds, who came in peace from the army of Abi.

"Summon the officers, and let them be admitted," said Rames, "but be careful, all of you, lest
this embassy should hide some trick of war. Come, Queen, it is to you that they should speak,
and not to me, who am but a general of your province, Kesh," and he followed her to the inner
court, where, in front of the sanctuary, was a chair, on which, at his prayer, she seated herself,
as a mighty Queen should do.

Now, conducted by his own officers, the embassy entered, bearing with them three closed litters,
and Tua and Rames noted that among that embassy were the greatest generals, and the most holy
priests of Egypt. At a given sign they prostrated themselves before the glory of the Queen,
all save the soldiers who bore the litters. Next, from among their ranks out stepped the venerable
High-Priest of Amen at Thebes, and stood before Tua with bowed head till, with a motion of
her hand, she commanded him to speak. After 10 days, complete healing , leaving
a 1 ½ cm long scar. As I stated cause of the abscess under the microscope round cocci.

The material came from a phone, housed in the dark, not ventilierbarer cell was.
 No, not since I fled from
Memphis to save myself from death, or what is worse--the defilement of a forced marriage with
Abi, my Uncle, and Pharaoh's murderer."

Now the High-Priest turned and stared at those behind him, and all who were present stared
at the Queen.

"Pardon me," he said, "but how can this thing be, seeing that for those two years we have seen
your Majesty day by day living among us as the wife of Abi?"

Now Tua looked at Asti, who stood at her side, and the tall and noble Asti looked at the High-Priest,
saying:

"You know me, do you not?"

"Aye, Lady," he answered, "we know you. You were the wife of Mermes, the last shoot of a royal
tree, and you are the mother of the Lord Rames yonder, against whom we came out to make war.
We know you well, O greatest of all the seers in Egypt, Mistress of Secret Things. But we believed
that you had perished in the temple of Sekhet at Memphis, that temple where Pharaoh died. Now
we understand that, being a magician, you only vanished thence."

"What bear you there?" asked Asti, glancing at the litters.

"Bring forth the prisoners," said the High-Priest.

Then the curtains were drawn, and the soldiers lifted from the litters Abi, Kaku, and Merytra,
who were bound with cords, and stood them on their feet before the Queen.

"These are the very murderers of Pharaoh, my Father, who would have also brought me to shame. 

"I go, Rudolf, it will be with you faster than you think. I bring her your message."

He sat up, felt for the little table next door, opened the drawer.

"What are you looking for? Can I help you?"

"Yes, a box will be there
in my Iron Cross. If you fix me want. But something nice that she
looks at her husband - So, now is good. And the eyes are covered,
you know, you do not see the destruction? " Listen, now, all of you, to the tale of that marvel which has come
to pass. At my birth--you, O High-Priest, should know it well--Amen gave to me a Ka, a Self
within myself, to protect me in all dangers. The dangers came upon me, and Asti the Magician,
my foster-mother, speaking the words that had been taught to her by the spirit of the divine
Ahura who bore me, called forth that Ka of mine, and left it where I had been, to be the wife
of Abi, such a wife, I think, as never man had before. But me, Amen, my father, rescued, and
with me Asti, bearing us in the Boat of the Sun to far lands, and protecting us in many perils,
till at length we came to the city of Napata, where we found a certain servant of mine whom,
as it chances, I--love," and she looked at Rames and smiled.

"Meanwhile, my Shadow did the work to which it was appointed, ruling for me in Egypt, and drawing
on Abi to his ruin. But last night It returned to me, and will be seen no more by men, except,
perchance, in my tomb after I am dead. Judge you if my tale be true, and whether I am indeed
Neter-Tua, Daughter of Amen," and opening the wrappings about her throat, she showed the holy
sign that was stamped above her breast, adding:

"The High-Priest yonder should know this mark, for he saw it at my birth."

Now the aged man drew near, looked, and said:

"It is the sign. Here shines the Star of Amen and no other. Still we do not understand. Tell
us the tale, O Asti."

So Asti stood forward, and told that tale, omitting nothing, and then Rames told his tale,
whereto Tua the Queen added a little, and, although ere they finished the sun was high, none
wearied in listening save only Abi, Kaku, and Merytra, who heard death in every word.

It was done at length, and a great silence fell upon the place, for the tongues of men were
tied. Presently, the High-Priest, who all this while had stood with bent head, lifted up his
eyes to heaven, crying:

"O Amen, Father of the Spirit of this Queen, show now thy will, that we may learn it and obey."

For a while there was silence, till suddenly a sound was heard in the dark sanctuary where
stood the statue of the god, a sound as of a stick tapping upon the granite floor. Then the
curtains of that sanctuary were drawn, and standing between them there appeared the figure
of an ancient, bearded man, with stony eyes, who was clad in a beggar's robe. It was he who
had met Tua and Asti in the wilderness and eaten up their food. It was he who had saved them
in the palace of the desert king. It was he who but last night had walked the camp of Abi.

"I am that Messenger whom men from the beginning have called Kepher," he said. "I am the Dweller
in the wilderness whom your fathers knew, and your sons shall know. I am he who seeks for charity
and pays it back in life and death. I am the pen of Thoth the Recorder, I am the scourge of
Osiris. I am the voice of Amen, god above the gods. Hearken you people of Egypt--not for a
little end have these things come to pass, but that ye may learn that there is design in heaven,
and justice upon earth, and, after justice, judgment. Pharaoh, the good servant of the gods,
was basely murdered by his own kin whom he trusted. 

Particular attention was paid to the telephone of typhus barracks. Typhoid are have in the dust
and on the floors of apartments, situated in which typhoid fever, often found Rullmann has been used
and proven to keep these germs in sterilized floors above a year on life. With the exception
were obtained from the telephone of the typhus barracks material employed by the usual method attempts
that especially the detection of typhoid should serve.


So spoke Kepher the Messenger, and departed whence he came, nor in that generation did any
see him more.

Then they took up Abi, Kaku, and Merytra, and cut their bonds. They threw them into the dark
sanctuary before the great stone image of the god. They shut the electrum doors upon them,
and left them there wailing and cursing, while the High-Priest of Amen joined the hands of
Rames and of Tua, and declared them to be man and wife for ever.

Now, after these things were done, the Pharaoh and his Queen drove through the hosts of Egypt
in their golden chariot, and received the homage of the hosts ere they departed northwards
for Thebes. At nightfall they returned again and sat side by side at the marriage feast, and
once more Tua swept her harp of ivory and gold, and sang the ancient song of him who dared
much for love, and won the prize.

So in the dim, forgotten years, their joy fell on Rames and on Tua, Morning-Star of Amen, which
still with them remains in the new immortal kingdom that they have won long and long ago.

But when in the morning Asti the wise dared to open the great doors and peer into the sanctuary
of Amen, she saw a dreadful sight. For there at the feet of the effigy of the god lay Abi,
who slew his brother, and Kaku the sorcerer, and Merytra the traitress, dead, slain by their
own or by each other's hand, and the stony eyes of the god stared down upon them.

