Properly speaking, the object of poetry is not compatible either with the tone of punishment
or that of amusement. The former is too grave for play, which should be the main feature of
poetry; the latter is too trifling for seriousness, which should form the basis of all poetic
play. Our mind is necessarily interested in moral contradictions, and these deprive the mind
of its liberty. Nevertheless, all personal interest, and reference to a personal necessity,
should be banished from poetic feeling. But mental contradictions do not touch the heart, nevertheless
the poet deals with the highest interests of the heart--nature and the ideal. Accordingly it
is a hard matter for him not to violate the poetic form in pathetic satire, because this form
consists in the liberty of movement; and in sportive satire he is very apt to miss the true
spirit of poetry, which ought to be the infinite. The problem can only be solved in one way:
by the pathetic satire assuming the character of the sublime, and the playful satire acquiring
poetic substance by enveloping the theme in beauty.

In satire, the real as imperfection is opposed to the ideal, considered as the highest reality.
In other respects it is by no means essential that the ideal should be expressly represented,
provided the poet knows how to awaken it in our souls, but he must in all cases awaken it,
otherwise he will exert absolutely no poetic action. Thus reality is here a necessary object
of aversion; but it is also necessary, for the whole question centres here, that this aversion
should come necessarily from the ideal, which is opposed to reality. To make this clear--this
aversion might proceed from a purely sensuous source, and repose only on a want of which the
satisfaction finds obstacles in the real. How often, in fact, we think we feel, against society
a moral discontent, while we are simply soured by the obstacles that it opposes to our inclination.
It is this entirely material interest that the vulgar satirist brings into play; and as by
this road he never fails to call forth in us movements connected with the affections, he fancies
that he holds our heart in his hand, and thinks he has graduated in the pathetic. But all pathos
derived from this source is unworthy of poetry, which ought only to move us through the medium
of ideas, and reach our heart only by passing through the reason. Moreover, this impure and
material pathos will never have its effect on minds, except by over-exciting the affective
faculties and by occupying our hearts with painful feelings; in this it differs entirely from
the truly poetic pathos, which raises in us the feeling of moral independence, and which is
recognized by the freedom of our mind persisting in it even while it is in the state of affection.
And, in fact, when the emotion emanates from the ideal opposed to the real, the sublime beauty
of the ideal corrects all impression of restraint; and the grandeur of the idea with which
we are imbued raises us above all the limits of experience. Thus in the representation of some
revolting reality, the essential thing is that the necessary be the foundation on which the
poet or the narrator places the real: that he know how to dispose our mind for ideas. Provided
the point from which we see and judge be elevated, it matters little if the object be low and
far beneath us. When the historian Tacitus depicts the profound decadence of the Romans of
the first century, it is a great soul which from a loftier position lets his looks drop down
on a low object; and the disposition in which he places us is truly poetic, because it is the
height where he is himself placed, and where he has succeeded in raising us, which alone renders
so perceptible the baseness of the object.

Accordingly the satire of pathos must always issue from a mind deeply imbued with the ideal.
It is nothing but an impulsion towards harmony that can give rise to that deep feeling of moral
opposition and that ardent indignation against moral obliquity which amounted to the fulness
of enthusiasm in Juvenal, Swift, Rousseau, Haller, and others. These same poets would have
succeeded equally well in forms of poetry relating to all that is tender and touching in feeling,
and it was only the accidents of life in their early days that diverted their minds into other
walks. Nay, some amongst them actually tried their hand successfully in these other branches
of poetry. The poets whose names have been just mentioned lived either at a period of degeneracy,
and had scenes of painful moral obliquity presented to their view, or personal troubles had
combined to fill their souls with bitter feelings. The strictly austere spirit in which Rousseau,
Haller, and others paint reality is a natural result, moreover, of the philosophical mind,
when with rigid adherence to laws of thought it separates the mere phenomenon from the substance
of things. Yet these outer and contingent influences, which always put restraint on the mind,
should never be allowed to do more than decide the direction taken by enthusiasm, nor should
they ever give the material for it. The substance ought always to remain unchanged, emancipated
from all external motion or stimulus, and it ought to issue from an ardent impulsion towards
the ideal, which forms the only true motive that can be put forth for satirical poetry, and
indeed for all sentimental poetry.

While the satire of pathos is only adapted to elevated minds, playful satire can only be adequately
represented by a heart imbued with beauty. The former is preserved from triviality by the serious
nature of the theme; but the latter, whose proper sphere is confined to the treatment of subjects
of morally unimportant nature, would infallibly adopt the form of frivolity, and be deprived
of all poetic dignity, were it not that the substance is ennobled by the form, and did not
the personal dignity of the poet compensate for the insignificance of the subject. Now, it
is only given to mind imbued with beauty to impress its character, its entire image, on each
of its manifestations, independently of the object of its manifestations. A sublime soul can
only make itself known as such by single victories over the rebellion of the senses, only in
certain moments of exaltation, and by efforts of short duration. In a mind imbued with beauty,
on the contrary, the ideal acts in the same manner as nature, and therefore continuously; accordingly
it can manifest itself in it in a state of repose. The deep sea never appears more sublime
than when it is agitated; the true beauty of a clear stream is in its peaceful course.

The question has often been raised as to the comparative preference to be awarded to tragedy
or comedy. If the question is confined merely to their respective themes, it is certain that
tragedy has the advantage. But if our inquiry be directed to ascertain which has the more important
personality, it is probable that a decision may be given in favor of comedy. In tragedy the
theme in itself does great things; in comedy the object does nothing and the poet all. Now,
as in the judgments of taste no account must be kept of the matter treated of, it follows naturally
that the aesthetic value of these two kinds will be in an inverse ratio to the proper importance
of their themes.

The tragic poet is supported by the theme, while the comic poet, on the contrary, has to keep
up the aesthetic character of his theme by his own individual influence. The former may soar,
which is not a very difficult matter, but the latter has to remain one and the same in tone;
he has to be in the elevated region of art, where he must be at home, but where the tragic
poet has to be projected and elevated by a bound. And this is precisely what distinguishes
a soul of beauty from a sublime soul. A soul of beauty bears in itself by anticipation all
great ideas; they flow without constraint and without difficulty from its very nature--an infinite
nature, at least in potency, at whatever point of its career you seize it. A sublime soul can
rise to all kinds of greatness, but by an effort; it can tear itself from all bondage, to all
that limits and constrains it, but only by strength of will. Consequently the sublime soul
is only free by broken efforts; the other with ease and always.

The noble task of comedy is to produce and keep up in us this freedom of mind, just as the
end of tragedy is to re-establish in us this freedom of mind by aesthetic ways, when it has
been violently suspended by passion. Consequently it is necessary that in tragedy the poet,
as if he made an experiment, should artificially suspend our freedom of mind, since tragedy
shows its poetic virtue by re-establishing it; in comedy, on the other hand, care must be taken
that things never reach this suspension of freedom.

It is for this reason that the tragic poet invariably treats his theme in a practical manner,
and the comic poet in a theoretic manner, even when the former, as happened with Lessing in
his "Nathan," should have the curious fancy to select a theoretical, and the latter should
have that of choosing a practical subject. A piece is constituted a tragedy or a comedy not
by the sphere from which the theme is taken, but by the tribunal before which it is judged.
A tragic poet ought never to indulge in tranquil reasoning, and ought always to gain the interest
of the heart; but the comic poet ought to shun the pathetic and bring into play the understanding.
The former displays his art by creating continual excitement, the latter by perpetually subduing
his passion; and it is natural that the art in both cases should acquire magnitude and strength
in proportion as the theme of one poet is abstract and that of the other pathetic in character.
Accordingly, if tragedy sets out from a more exalted place, it must be allowed, on the other
hand, that comedy aims at a more important end; and if this end could be actually attained
it would make all tragedy not only unnecessary, but impossible. The aim that comedy has in
view is the same as that of the highest destiny of man, and this consists in liberating himself
from the influence of violent passions, and taking a calm and lucid survey of all that surrounds
him, and also of his own being, and of seeing everywhere occurrence rather than fate or hazard,
and ultimately rather smiling at the absurdities than shedding tears and feeling anger at sight
of the wickedness of man.

It frequently happens in human life that facility of imagination, agreeable talents, a good-natured
mirthfulness are taken for ornaments of the mind. The same fact is discerned in the case of
poetical displays.

Now, public taste scarcely if ever soars above the sphere of the agreeable, and authors gifted
with this sort of elegance of mind and style do not find it a difficult matter to usurp a glory
which is or ought to be the reward of so much real labor. Nevertheless, an infallible text
exists to enable us to discriminate a natural facility of manner from ideal gentleness, and
qualities that consist in nothing more than natural virtue from genuine moral worth of character.
This test is presented by trials such as those presented by difficulty and events offering
great opportunities. Placed in positions of this kind, the genius whose essence is elegance
is sure infallibly to fall into platitudes, and that virtue which only results from natural
causes drops down to a material sphere. But a mind imbued with true and spiritual beauty is
in cases of the kind we have supposed sure to be elevated to the highest sphere of character
and of feeling. So long as Lucian merely furnishes absurdity, as in his "Wishes," in the "Lapithae,"
in "Jupiter Tragoedus," etc., he is only a humorist, and gratifies us by his sportive humor;
but he changes character in many passages in his "Nigrinus," his "Timon," and his "Alexander,"
when his satire directs its shafts against moral depravity. Thus he begins in his "Nigrinus"
his picture of the degraded corruption of Rome at that time in this way: "Wretch, why didst
thou quit Greece, the sunlight, and that free and happy life? Why didst thou come here into
this turmoil of splendid slavery, of service and festivals, of sycophants, flatterers, poisoners,
orphan-robbers, and false friends?" It is on such occasions that the poet ought to show the
lofty earnestness of soul which has to form the basis of all plays, if a poetical character
is to be obtained by them. A serious intention may even be detected under the malicious jests
with which Lucian and Aristophanes pursue Socrates. Their purpose is to avenge truth against
sophistry, and to do combat for an ideal which is not always prominently put forward. There
can be no doubt that Lucian has justified this character in his Diogenes and Demonax. Again,
among modern writers, how grave and beautiful is the character depicted on all occasions by
Cervantes in his Don Quixote! How splendid must have been the ideal that filled the mind of
a poet who created a Tom Jones and a Sophonisba! How deeply and strongly our hearts are moved
by the jests of Yorick when he pleases! I detect this seriousness also in our own Wieland:
even the wanton sportiveness of his humor is elevated and impeded by the goodness of his heart;
it has an influence even on his rhythm; nor does he ever lack elastic power, when it is his
wish, to raise us up to the most elevated planes of beauty and of thought.

The same judgment cannot be pronounced on the satire of Voltaire. No doubt, also, in his case,
it is the truth and simplicity of nature which here and there makes us experience poetic emotions,
whether he really encounters nature and depicts it in a simple character, as many times in
his "Ingenu;" or whether he seeks it and avenges it as in his "Candide" and elsewhere. But
when neither one nor the other takes place, he can doubtless amuse us with his fine wit, but
he assuredly never touches us as a poet. There is always rather too little of the serious under
his raillery, and this is what makes his vocation as poet justly suspicious. You always meet
his intelligence only; never his feelings. No ideal can be detected under this light gauze
envelope; scarcely can anything absolutely fixed be found under this perpetual movement. His
prodigious diversity of externals and forms, far from proving anything in favor of the inner
fulness of his inspiration, rather testifies to the contrary; for he has exhausted all forms
without finding a single one on which he has succeeded in impressing his heart. We are almost
driven to fear that in the case of his rich talent the poverty of heart alone determined his
choice of satire. And how could we otherwise explain the fact that he could pursue so long
a road without ever issuing from its narrow rut? Whatever may be the variety of matter and
of external forms, we see the inner form return everywhere with its sterile and eternal uniformity,
and in spite of his so productive career, he never accomplished in himself the circle of humanity,
that circle which we see joyfully traversed throughout by the satirists previously named.

ELEGIAC POETRY.

When the poet opposes nature to art, and the ideal to the real, so that nature and the ideal
form the principal object of his pictures, and that the pleasure we take in them is the dominant
impression, I call him an elegiac poet. In this kind, as well as in satire, I distinguish two
classes. Either nature and the ideal are objects of sadness, when one is represented as lost
to man and the other as unattained; or both are objects of joy, being represented to us as
reality. In the first case it is elegy in the narrower sense of the term; in the second case
it is the idyl in its most extended acceptation.

Indignation in the pathetic and ridicule in mirthful satire are occasioned by an enthusiasm
which the ideal has excited; and thus also sadness should issue from the same source in elegy.
It is this, and this only, that gives poetic value to elegy, and any other origin for this
description of poetical effusion is entirely beneath the dignity of poetry. The elegiac poet
seeks after nature, but he strives to find her in her beauty, and not only in her mirth; in
her agreement with conception, and not merely in her facile disposition towards the requirements
and demands of sense. Melancholy at the privation of joys, complaints at the disappearance
of the world's golden age, or at the vanished happiness of youth, affection, etc., can only
become the proper themes for elegiac poetry if those conditions implying peace and calm in
the sphere of the senses can moreover be portrayed as states of moral harmony. On this account
I cannot bring myself to regard as poetry the complaints of Ovid, which he transmitted from
his place of exile by the Black Sea; nor would they appear so to me however touching and however
full of passages of the highest poetry they might be. His suffering is too devoid of spirit,
and nobleness. His lamentations display a want of strength and enthusiasm; though they may
not reflect the traces of a vulgar soul, they display a low and sensuous condition of a noble
spirit that has been trampled into the dust by its hard destiny. If, indeed, we call to mind
that his regrets are directed to Rome, in the Augustan age, we forgive him the pain he suffers;
but even Rome in all its splendor, except it be transfigured by the imagination, is a limited
greatness, and therefore a subject unworthy of poetry, which, raised above every trace of the
actual, ought only to mourn over what is infinite.

Thus the object of poetic complaint ought never to be an external object, but only an internal
and ideal object; even when it deplores a real loss, it must begin by making it an ideal loss.
The proper work of the poet consists in bringing back the finite object to the proportions
of the infinite. Consequently the external matter of elegy, considered in itself, is always
indifferent, since poetry can never employ it as it finds it, and because it is only by what
it makes of it that it confers on it a poetic dignity. The elegiac poet seeks nature, but nature
as an idea, and in a degree of perfection that it has never reached in reality, although he
weeps over this perfection as something that has existed and is now lost. When Ossian speaks
to us of the days that are no more, and of the heroes that have disappeared, his imagination
has long since transformed these pictures represented to him by his memory into a pure ideal,
and changed these heroes into gods. The different experiences of such or such a life in particular
have become extended and confounded in the universal idea of transitoriness, and the bard,
deeply moved, pursued by the increase of ruin everywhere present, takes his flight towards
heaven, to find there in the course of the sun an emblem of what does not pass away.

I turn now to the elegiac poets of modern times. Rousseau, whether considered as a poet or
a philosopher, always obeys the same tendency; to seek nature or to avenge it by art. According
to the state of his heart, whether he prefers to seek nature or to avenge it, we see him at
one time roused by elegiac feelings, at others showing the tone of the satire of Juneval; and
again, as in his Julia, delighting in the sphere of the idyl. His compositions have undoubtedly
a poetic value, since their object is ideal; only he does not know how to treat it in a poetic
fashion. No doubt his serious character prevents him from falling into frivolity; but this
seriousness also does not allow him to rise to poetic play. Sometimes absorbed by passion,
at others by abstractions, he seldom if ever reaches aesthetic freedom, which the poet ought
to maintain in spite of his material before his object, and in which he ought to make the reader
share. Either he is governed by his sickly sensibility and his impressions become a torture,
or the force of thought chains down his imagination and destroys by its strictness of reasoning
all the grace of his pictures. These two faculties, whose reciprocal influence and intimate
union are what properly make the poet, are found in this writer in an uncommon degree, and
he only lacks one thing--it is that the two qualities should manifest themselves actually united;
it is that the proper activity of thought should show itself mixed more with feeling, and the
sensuous more with thought. Accordingly, even in the ideal which he has made of human nature,
he is too much taken up with the limits of this nature, and not enough with its capabilities;
he always betrays a want of physical repose rather than want of moral harmony. His passionate
sensuousness must be blamed when, to finish as quickly as possible that struggle in humanity
which offends him, he prefers to carry man back to the unintelligent uniformity of his primitive
condition, rather than see that struggle carried out in the intellectual harmony of perfect
cultivation, when, rather than await the fulfilment of art he prefers not to let it begin;
in short, when he prefers to place the aim nearer the earth, and to lower the ideal in order
to reach it the sooner and the safer.

Among the poets of Germany who belong to this class, I shall only mention here Haller, Kleist,
and Klopstock. The character of their poetry is sentimental; it is by the ideal that they touch
us, not by sensuous reality; and that not so much because they are themselves nature, as because
they know how to fill us with enthusiasm for nature. However, what is true in general, as well
of these three poets as of every sentimental poet, does not evidently exclude the faculty of
moving us, in particular, by beauties of the simple genus; without this they would not be poets.
I only mean that it is not their proper and dominant characteristic to receive the impression
of objects with a calm feeling, simple, easy, and to give forth in like manner the impression
received. Involuntarily the imagination in them anticipates intuition, and reflection is in
play before the sensuous nature has done its function; they shut their eyes and stop their
ears to plunge into internal meditations. Their souls could not be touched by any impression
without observing immediately their own movements, without placing before their eyes and outside
themselves what takes place in them. It follows from this that we never see the object itself,
but what the intelligence and reflection of the poet have made of the object; and even if this
object be the person itself of the poet, even when he wishes to represent to us his own feelings,
we are not informed of his state immediately or at first hand; we only see how this state is
reflected in his mind and what he has thought of it in the capacity of spectator of himself.
When Haller deplores the death of his wife--every one knows this beautiful elegy--and begins
in the following manner:--

  "If I must needs sing of thy death,
   O Marian, what a song it would be!
   When sighs strive against words,
   And idea follows fast on idea," etc.,

we feel that this description is strictly true, but we feel also that the poet does not communicate
to us, properly speaking, his feelings, but the thoughts that they suggest to him. Accordingly,
the emotion we feel on hearing him is much less vivid! people remark that the poet's mind must
have been singularly cooled down to become thus a spectator of his own emotion.

Haller scarcely treated any subjects but the super-sensuous, and part of the poems of Klopstock
are also of this nature: this choice itself excludes them from the simple kind. Accordingly,
in order to treat these super-sensuous themes in a poetic fashion, as no body could be given
to them, and they could not be made the objects of sensuous intuition, it was necessary to
make them pass from the finite to the infinite, and raise them to the state of objects of spiritual
intuition. In general, it may be said, that it is only in this sense that a didactic poetry
can be conceived without involving contradiction; for, repeating again what has been so often
said, poetry has only two fields, the world of sense and the ideal world, since in the sphere
of conceptions, in the world of the understanding, it cannot absolutely thrive. I confess that
I do not know as yet any didactic poem, either among the ancients or among the moderns, where
the subject is completely brought down to the individual, or purely and completely raised to
the ideal. The most common case, in the most happy essays, is where the two principles are
used together; the abstract idea predominates, and the imagination, which ought to reign over
the whole domain of poetry, has merely the permission to serve the understanding. A didactic
poem in which thought itself would be poetic, and would remain so, is a thing which we must
still wait to see.

What we say here of didactic poems in general is true in particular of the poems of Haller.
The thought itself of these poems is not poetical, but the execution becomes so sometimes,
occasionally by the use of images, at other times by a flight towards the ideal. It is from
this last quality only that the poems of Haller belong to this class. Energy, depth, a pathetic
earnestness--these are the traits that distinguish this poet. He has in his soul an ideal that
enkindles it, and his ardent love of truth seeks in the peaceful valleys of the Alps that innocence
of the first ages that the world no longer knows. His complaint is deeply touching; he retraces
in an energetic and almost bitter satire the wanderings of the mind and of the heart, and he
lovingly portrays the beautiful simplicity of nature. Only, in his pictures as well as in his
soul, abstraction prevails too much, and the sensuous is overweighted by the intellectual.
He constantly teaches rather than paints; and even in his paintings his brush is more energetic
than lovable. He is great, bold, full of fire, sublime; but he rarely and perhaps never attains
to beauty.

For the solidity and depth of ideas, Kleist is far inferior to Haller; in point of grace, perhaps,
he would have the advantage--if, as happens occasionally, we did not impute to him as a merit,
on the one side, that which really is a want on the other. The sensuous soul of Kleist takes
especial delight at the sight of country scenes and manners; he withdraws gladly from the vain
jingle and rattle of society, and finds in the heart of inanimate nature the harmony and peace
that are not offered to him by the moral world. How touching is his "Aspiration after Repose"!
how much truth and feeling there is in these verses!--

  "O world, thou art the tomb of true life!
   Often a generous instinct attracts me to virtue;
   My heart is sad, a torrent of tears bathes my cheeks
   But example conquers, and thou, O fire of youth!
   Soon you dry these noble tears.
   A true man must live far from men!"

But if the poetic instinct of Kleist leads him thus far away from the narrow circle of social
relations, in solitude, and among the fruitful inspirations of nature, the image of social
life and of its anguish pursues him, and also, alas! its chains. What he flees from he carries
in himself, and what he seeks remains entirely outside him: never can he triumph over the fatal
influence of his time. In vain does he find sufficient flame in his heart and enough energy
in his imagination to animate by painting the cold conceptions of the understanding; cold thought
each time kills the living creations of fancy, and reflection destroys the secret work of the
sensuous nature. His poetry, it must be admitted, is of as brilliant color and as variegated
as the spring he celebrated in verse; his imagination is vivid and active; but it might be
said that it is more variable than rich, that it sports rather than creates, that it always
goes forward with a changeful gait, rather than stops to accumulate and mould things into shape.
Traits succeed each other rapidly, with exuberance, but without concentrating to form an individual,
without completing each other to make a living whole, without rounding to a form, a figure.
Whilst he remains in purely lyrical poetry, and pauses amidst his landscapes of country life,
on the one hand the greater freedom of the lyrical form, and on the other the more arbitrary
nature of the subject, prevent us from being struck with this defect; in these sorts of works
it is in general rather the feelings of the poet, than the object in itself, of which we expect
the portraiture. But this defect becomes too apparent when he undertakes, as in Cisseis and
Paches, or in his Seneca, to represent men and human actions; because here the imagination
sees itself kept in within certain fixed and necessary limits, and because here the effect
can only be derived from the object itself. Kleist becomes poor, tiresome, jejune, and insupportably
frigid; an example full of lessons for those who, without having an inner vocation, aspire
to issue from musical poetry, to rise to the regions of plastic poetry. A spirit of this family,
Thomson, has paid the same penalty to human infirmity.

In the sentimental kind, and especially in that part of the sentimental kind which we name
elegiac, there are but few modern poets, and still fewer ancient ones, who can be compared
to our Klopstock. Musical poetry has produced in this poet all that can be attained out of
the limits of the living form, and out of the sphere of individuality, in the region of ideas.
It would, no doubt, be doing him a great injustice to dispute entirely in his case that individual
truth and that feeling of life with which the simple poet describes his pictures. Many of his
odes, many separate traits in his dramas, and in his "Messiah," represent the object with a
striking truth, and mark the outline admirably; especially, when the object is his own heart,
he has given evidence on many occasions of a great natural disposition and of a charming simplicity.
I mean only that it is not in this that the proper force of Klopstock consists, and that it
would not perhaps be right to seek for this throughout his work. Viewed as a production of
musical poetry, the "Messiah" is a magnificent work; but in the light of plastic poetry, where
we look for determined forms and forms determined for the intuition, the "Messiah" leaves much
to be desired. Perhaps in this poem the figures are sufficiently determined, but they are not
so with intuition in view. It is abstraction alone that created them, and abstraction alone
can discern them. They are excellent types to express ideas, but they are not individuals nor
living figures. With regard to the imagination, which the poet ought to address, and which
he ought to command by putting before it always perfectly determinate forms, it is left here
much too free to represent as it wishes these men and these angels, these divinities and demons,
this paradise and this hell. We see quite well the vague outlines in which the understanding
must be kept to conceive these personages; but we do not find the limit clearly traced in which
the imagination must be enclosed to represent them. And what I say here of characters must
apply to all that in this poem is, or ought to be, action and life, and not only in this epopoeia,
but also in the dramatic poetry of Klopstock. For the understanding all is perfectly determined
and bounded in them--I need only here recall his Judas, his Pilate, his Philo, his Solomon
in the tragedy that bears that name--but for the imagination all this wants form too much,
and I must readily confess I do not find that our poet is at all in his sphere here. His sphere
is always the realm of ideas; and he knows how to raise all he touches to the infinite. It
might be said that he strips away their bodily envelope, to spiritualize them from all the
objects with which he is occupied, in the same way that other poets clothe all that is spiritual
with a body. The pleasure occasioned by his poems must almost always be obtained by an exercise
of the faculty of reflection; the feelings he awakens in us, and that so deeply and energetically,
flow always from super-sensuous sources. Hence the earnestness, the strength, the elasticity,
the depth, that characterize all that comes from him; but from that also issues that perpetual
tension of mind in which we are kept when reading him. No poet--except perhaps Young, who in
this respect exacts even more than Klopstock, without giving us so much compensation --no poet
could be less adapted than Klopstock to play the part of favorite author and guide in life,
because he never does anything else than lead us out of life, because he never calls to arms
anything save spirit, without giving recreation and refreshment to sensuous nature by the calm
presence of any object. His muse is chaste, it has nothing of the earthly, it is immaterial
and holy as his religion; and we are forced to admit with admiration that if he wanders sometimes
on these high places, it never happened to him to fall from them. But precisely for this reason,
I confess in all ingenuousness, that I am not free from anxiety for the common sense of those
who quite seriously and unaffectedly make Klopstock the favorite book, the book in which we
find sentiments fitting all situations, or to which we may revert at all times: perhaps even--and
I suspect it--Germany has seen enough results of his dangerous influence. It is only in certain
dispositions of the mind, and in hours of exaltation, that recourse can be had to Klopstock,
and that he can be felt. It is for this reason that he is the idol of youth, without, however,
being by any means the happiest choice that they could make. Youth, which always aspires to
something beyond real life, which avoids all stiffness of form, and finds all limits too narrow,
lets itself be carried away with love, with delight, into the infinite spaces opened up to
them by this poet. But wait till the youth has become a man, and till, from the domain of ideas,
he comes back to the world of experience, then you will see this enthusiastic love of Klopstock
decrease greatly, without, however, a riper age changing at all the esteem due to this unique
phenomenon, to this so extraordinary genius, to these noble sentiments--the esteem that Germany
in particular owes to his high merit.

I have said that this poet was great specially in the elegiac style, and it is scarcely necessary
to confirm this judgment by entering into particulars. Capable of exercising all kinds of action
on the heart, and having graduated as master in all that relates to sentimental poetry, he
can sometimes shake the soul by the most sublime pathos, at others cradle it with sweet and
heavenly sensations. Yet his heart prefers to follow the direction of a lofty spiritual melancholy;
and, however sublime be the tones of his harp and of his lyre, they are always the tender notes
of his lute that resound with most truth and the deepest emotion. I take as witnesses all those
whose nature is pure and sensuous: would they not be ready to give all the passages where Klopstock
is strong, and bold; all those fictions, all the magnificent descriptions, all the models of
eloquence which abound in the "Messiah," all those dazzling comparisons in which our poet excels,--would
they not exchange them for the pages breathing tenderness, the "Elegy to Ebert" for example,
or that admirable poem entitled "Bardalus," or again, the "Tombs Opened before the Hour," the
"Summer's Night," the "Lake of Zurich," and many other pieces of this kind? In the same way
the "Messiah" is dear to me as a treasure of elegiac feelings and of ideal paintings, though
I am not much satisfied with it as the recital of an action and as an epic.

I ought, perhaps, before quitting this department, to recall the merits in this style of Uz,
Denis, Gessner in the "Death of Abel"--Jacobi, Gerstenberg, Hoelty, De Goeckingk, and several
others, who all knew how to touch by ideas, and whose poems belong to the sentimental kind
in the sense in which we have agreed to understand the word. But my object is not here to write
a history of German poetry; I only wished to clear up what I said further back by some examples
from our literature. I wished to show that the ancient and the modern poets, the authors of
simple poetry and of sentimental poetry, follow essentially different paths to arrive at the
same end: that the former move by nature, individuality, a very vivid sensuous element; while
the latter do it by means of ideas and a high spirituality, exercising over our minds an equally
powerful though less extensive influence.

It has been seen, by the examples which precede, how sentimental poetry conceives and treats
subjects taken from nature; perhaps the reader may be curious to know how also simple poetry
treats a subject of the sentimental order. This is, as it seems, an entirely new question,
and one of special difficulty; for, in the first place, has a subject of the sentimental order
ever been presented in primitive and simple periods? And in modern times, where is the simple
poet with whom we could make this experiment? This has not, however, prevented genius from
setting this problem, and solving it in a wonderfully happy way. A poet in whose mind nature
works with a purer and more faithful activity than in any other, and who is perhaps of all
modern poets the one who departs the least from the sensuous truth of things, has proposed
this problem to himself in his conception of a mind, and of the dangerous extreme of the sentimental
character. This mind and this character have been portrayed by the modern poet we speak of,
a character which with a burning sensuousness embraces the ideal and flies the real, to soar
up to an infinite devoid of being, always occupied in seeking out of himself what he incessantly
destroys in himself; a mind that only finds reality in his dreams, and to whom the realities
of life are only limits and obstacles; in short, a mind that sees only in its own existence
a barrier, and goes on, as it were, logically to break down this barrier in order to penetrate
to true reality.

