At night the Prior sent for him. Dino's hearing was dulled by fatigue and fasting: he did not
understand at first what was said. But, by-and-bye, he knew that he was ordered to go into
the guest-room, where the Prior awaited his coming. The command gave Dino an additional pang:
the guest-room was for strangers, not for one who had been as a child of the house. But he
lifted himself up feebly from the cold stones, and followed the lay-brother, who had brought
the message, to the appointed place.

The Prior was an austere man, but not devoid of compassion, nor even of sympathy. He received
Dino with no relaxation of his rather grim features, but told him to eat and drink before speaking.
"I will not talk to you fasting," he said; and Dino felt conscious of some touch of compassion
in the old man's eyes as he looked at him.

Dino sat, therefore, and tried to eat and drink, but the effort was almost in vain. When he
had swallowed a few mouthfuls of bread and water mixed with a little wine, which was all that
he could touch, he stood up in token that he was ready for the Prior's questions; and Father
Cristoforo, who had meanwhile been walking up and down the room with a restless air, at once
stopped short and began to speak.

Let it be remembered that Dino felt towards this rugged-faced, stern-voiced priest as loving
as a son feels towards a wise father. His affections were strong; and he had few objects on
which to expend them. The Prior's anger meant to him not merely the displeasure of one in authority,
but the loss of a love which had shielded and enveloped him ever since he came to the monastery-school
when he was ten years old. He seemed to have an absolute need of it; without it, life was impossible
to go on.

Father Cristoforo was not without visitings of the same sort of feeling; but he allowed no
trace of such soft-heartedness to appear as he put Dino through a searching examination concerning
the way in which he had spent his time in England. Dino answered his questions fully and clearly:
he had nothing that he wished to hide. Even the Prior could not accuse him of a wish to excuse
himself. He told the story of his interview with Hugo, of the dinner, of Hugo's attack upon
him, and of his sojourn in the hospital, where Brian had sought him out and convinced him (without
knowing that he was doing so) of his innocence with respect to Hugo's plot. Then came the story
of his intercourse with Brian, his discovery that Brian's happiness hinged upon his love for
Elizabeth Murray, and his attempts to unravel the very tangled skein of his friend's fortunes.
Mr. Brett's opinion of the case, Brian's letter to Mrs. Luttrell, Dino's own visit to Scotland,
with its varied effects, including the final destruction of the papers--all this was quietly
and fully detailed, with an occasional interruption only from Padre Cristoforo in the shape
of a question or a muttered comment. And when the whole story was told the Prior spoke.

Everything that Dino had done was, of course, wrong. He ought never to have seen Hugo, or dined
with him: he ought to have gone to Father Connolly, the priest to whose care he had been recommended,
as soon as he came out of hospital: he ought never to have interfered in Brian's love affairs,
nor gone to Scotland, nor sought to impose conditions on Mrs. Luttrell, nor, in short, done
any of the thousand and one things that he had done. As for the destruction of the papers,
it was a point on which he (Father Cristoforo) hardly dared, he said, with a shrug of his shoulders,
to touch. The base ingratitude, the unfaithfulness to the interests of the Church, the presumption,
the pride, the wilfulness, manifested in that action, transcended all his powers of reprobation.
The matter must be referred to a higher authority than his. And so forth. And every word he
said was like a dagger planted in Dino's breast.

As for his desire to be a monk, the Prior repudiated the notion with contempt. Dino Vasari
a monk, after this lapse from obedience and humility? He was not fit to do the humblest work
of the lowest servant of those who lived by the altar. He had not even shown common penitence
for his sin. Let him do that: let him humble himself: let him sit in dust and ashes, metaphorically
speaking: and then, by-and-bye, the Church might open her arms to him, and listen to the voice
of his prayer. But now--Father Cristoforo declined even to hear any formal confession: his
pupil must wait and prepare himself, before he was fit for the sacrament of penance.

To Dino, this was a hard sentence. He did not know that the Prior was secretly much better
satisfied with his submissive state of mind than he chose to allow, or that he had made up
his mind to relax his severity on the morrow. Just for this one night the Prior had resolved
to be stern and harsh. "I will make him eat dust," he said to himself, out of his real vexation
and disappointment, as he looked vengefully at Dino, who was lying face downwards on the ground,
weeping with all the self-abandonment of his nature. "He must never rebel again." The Prior
knew that his measures were generally effectual: he meant to take strong ones now.

"There is something more in it that I can understand," he murmured to himself, presently, after
he had taken a few turns up and down the room. He halted beside Dino's prostrate form, and
looked down upon it with a hidden gentleness shining out of his deep-set eyes. But he would
not speak gently. "You have not told me all," he said. "Rise: let me see your face."

Dino struggled to his knees, and, after a moment's hesitation, dropped his hands to his sides.

"What else have you to tell me?" said the priest, fixing his eyes on the young man's face,
as if he could read the secrets of his soul.

"I have told you all that I did," stammered Dino.

"But not all that you thought."

There was a short silence. Then Dino spoke again, in short-broken sentences, which at times
the Prior could scarcely hear.

"Reverend Father, there is one thought, one feeling. I do not know what it is. I am haunted
by a face which never leaves me. And yet I saw it twice only: once in a picture and once in
life; but it comes between me and my prayers. I cannot forget her."

"Whose face was this?" asked the Prior, with the subtle change of eye and lip which showed
that Dino's answer had fulfilled his expectations. "Her name?"

But the name that Dino murmured was not one that Padre Cristoforo had expected to hear from him.

"Elizabeth Murray!" he repeated. "The woman that Brian Luttrell loves--for whose sake you gave
up your inheritance--that you might not turn her out. The mystery is solved. I see the motive
now. You love this woman."

"And if I have loved her, if I do love her," said Dino, passionately, his whole face lighting
up with impetuous feeling, and his hands trembling as they clasped each other, "it is no sin
to love."

The Prior gave him a long, steady gaze. "You have sacrificed your faith to your love," he said,
"and that is a sin. You have forgotten your obedience to the Church for a woman's sake--and
that is a sin. Lastly, you come here professing a monk's vocation, yet acknowledging--with
reluctance--that this woman's face comes between you and your prayers. I do not say that this
is a sin, but I say that you had better leave us to-morrow, for you have proved yourself unfit
for the life that we lead at San Stefano. Go back to Scotland and marry. Or, if you cannot
do that, we will give you money, and start you in some professional career; your aims are too
low, your will is too weak, for us."

Again the Prior was not quite in earnest. He wanted to try the strength of his pupil's resolve.
But when Dino said, "I will not leave you, I will tend the vines and the goats at your door,
but I will never go away," the priest felt a revival of all the old tenderness which he had
been used to lavish silently on the brown-eyed boy who had come to him from old Assunta.

"I will not go!" cried Dino. "I have no one in the world but you. Ah, my father, will you never
forgive me?"

"It is not my forgiveness you need," said the Prior, shortly. "But come, the hour is late.
We will give you shelter for the night, at least."

"Let me go to the chapel first," pleaded Dino, in a voice which had suddenly grown faint. "I
dared not enter it this morning, but now let me pray there for a little while. I must ask forgiveness
there."

"Pray there if you choose," said the Prior; "and pray for the penitence which you have yet
to learn. When that is won, then talk of forgiveness."

He coldly withdrew the hand that Dino tried to kiss; he left the room without uttering one
word of comfort or encouragement. It was good for his pupil, he thought, to be driven well-nigh
to despair.

Dino, left to himself, remained for a few minutes in the posture in which the Prior had left
him; then rose and made his way, slowly and feebly, to the little monastery chapel, where a
solitary lamp swung before the altar, and a flood of moonlight fell through the coloured panes
of the clerestory windows. Dino stood passive in that flood of moonlight, almost forgetting
why he had come. His brain was dizzy, his heart was sick. His mind was distracted with the
thought of a guilt which he did not feel to be his own, of sin for which his conscience did
not smite him. For, with a strange commingling of clear-sightedness and submission to authority,
he still believed that he had done perfectly right in giving up his claim to the Scotch estate,
and yet, with all his heart, desired to feel that he had done wrong. And when the words with
which Father Cristoforo had reproached him came back to his mind, his burden seemed greater
than he could bear. With a moan of pain he sank down close beside the altar-steps. And there,
through the midnight hours, he lay alone and wrestled with himself.

It was no use. Everything fell from him in that hour except that faith and that love which
had been the controlling powers of his life. He had loved Brian as a brother; and he had done
well: he had loved Elizabeth--though he had not known that the dreaming fancies which had lately
centred round her deserved the name which the Prior had given to them--and he had not done
ill; and it was right that he should give to them, what might, perhaps, avail to make their
lives a little happier--at any rate all that he had to give. The Prior had said that he was
wrong. And would the good God, whom he had always loved and worshipped from the days of his
earliest boyhood, would the Good God condemn him, too! He did not think so. He was not sorry
for what he had done at all.

No, he did not repent.

But how would it fare with him next day if he told the Prior this, the inmost conviction of
his heart? He would be told again that he was not fit to be a monk. And the desire to be a
monk--curious as it may seem to us--had grown up with Dino as a beautiful ideal. Was he now
to be thrust out into the world--the world where men stole and lied and stabbed each other
in the dark, all for the sake of a few acres of land or a handful of gold pieces--and denied
the hard, ascetic, yet tranquil and finely-ordered life which he had hoped to lead, when he
put on his monkish robe, for the remainder of his days?

Dino was an enthusiast: he might, perhaps, have been disenchanted if he had lived as one of
themselves amongst the brethren who seemed to him so enviable; but just now his whole being
rose in revolt against a decision which deprived him of all that he had been taught to consider
blessed.

Then a strange revulsion of feeling came. There were good men in the world, he remembered,
as well as bad: there were beautiful women; there was art, and music, and much that makes life
seem worth living. Why, after all, if the monks rejected him, should he not go to the world
and take his pleasure there like other men? And there came a vision of Elizabeth, with her
pale face turned to him in pity, and her hand beckoning him to follow her. Then, after a little
interval, he came to himself, and knew that his mind had wandered; and so, in order to steady
his thoughts, he began to speak aloud, and a novice, who had been sent to say a certain number
of prayers at that hour in church by way of penance, started from a fitful slumber on his knees,
and heard the words that Dino said. They sounded strange to the young novice: he repeated them
next day with a sense that he might be uttering blasphemy, and was very much astonished when
the Prior drew his hand across his eyes as if to wipe away a tear, and did not seem horrified
in the very least. And this was what Dino said:--

"Wrong! Wrong! All wrong! And yet it seemed right to love God's creatures.... Perhaps I loved
them too much. So I am punished.... But, after all, He knows: He understands. If they put me
out of His church, perhaps He will let me serve Him somewhere--somehow--I don't know where:
He knows. Oh, my God, if I have loved another more than Thee, forgive me ... and let me rest
... for I am tired--tired--tired----"

The voice sank into an inarticulate murmur, in which the novice, frightened and perplexed,
could not distinguish words. Then there was silence. One little sigh escaped those lips, and
that was all. The novice turned and fled, terrified at those words of prayer, which seemed
to him so different from any that he had ever heard--so different that they must be wrong!

At four in the morning the monks came in to chant their morning prayer. One by one they dropped
into their places, scarcely noticing the prostrate figure before the altar-steps. It was usual
enough for one of their number, or even a stranger staying in the monastery, to humiliate himself
in that manner as a public penance. The Prior only gave a little start, as if an electric shock
passed through his frame, when, on taking his seat in the choir, his eye fell upon that motionless
form. But he did not leave his place until the last prayer had been said, the last psalm chanted.
Then he rose and walked deliberately to the place where Dino lay, and laid his hand upon his head.

"My son!" he said, gently. There was a great fear in his face, a tremor of startled emotion
in his voice. "Dino, my beloved! I pardon thee."

But Dino did not hear. His prayer had been granted him; he was at rest. God had been more merciful
than man. The Prior's pardon came too late.

       *       *       *       *       *

And far away, on a southern sea, where each great wave threatened to engulf the tiny boat which
seemed like a child's toy thrown upon the waters, three men were struggling for dear life--for
the life that Dino Vasari had been so ready to lay down--toiling, with broken oars, and roughly-fashioned
sails, and ragged streamers as signals of distress, to win their way back to solid land, and
live once more with their fellows the common but precious life of common men.

They had narrowly escaped death by fire, and were fast losing hope of ultimate rescue. For
five days they had been tossing on the waves of the Southern Atlantic, and they had seen as
yet no sign of land; no friendly sail bearing down upon them to bring relief. Their stock of
food was scanty, the water supply had now entirely failed. The tortures of a raging thirst
under a sultry sky had begun: the men's lips were black and swollen, their bloodshot eyes searched
the horizon in anguished, fruitless yearning. There was no cloud in all the great expanse of
blue: there was nothing to be seen between sea and sky but this one frail boat with its three
occupants. Another and a larger boat had set out with them, but they had lost sight of it in
the night. There had been five men in this little cockle-shell when they left the ship; but
one of them had lost his senses and jumped over-board, drowning before their very eyes; and
one, a mere lad, had died on the second day from injuries received on board the burning vessel.
And of the three who were left, it seemed as if one, at least, would speedily succumb to the
exposure and privations which they had been driven to endure.

This man lay prostrate at the bottom of the boat. He could hold out no longer. His half-closed
eyes, his open mouth and swollen features showed the suffering which had brought him to this
pass. Another man sat bowed together in a kind of torpor. A third, the oldest and most experienced
of the party, kept his hand upon the tiller; but there was a sullen hopelessness in his air,
a nerveless dejection in the pose of his limbs, which showed that he had neither strength nor
inclination to fight much longer against fate.

It was at nine o'clock on the fifth day of their perilous voyage, that the steersman lifted
up his eyes, and saw a faint trail of smoke on the horizon. He uttered a hoarse, inarticulate
cry, and rose up, pointing with one shaking finger to the distant sign. "A steamer!" He could
say nothing more, but the word was enough. It called back life even to the dull eyes of the
man who had lain down to die. And he who was sitting with his head bowed wearily upon his knees,
looked up with a quick, sudden flicker of hope which seemed likely enough to be extinguished
as soon as it was evident.

For it was probable that the steamer would merely cross the line of vision and disappear, without
approaching them near enough to be of any use. Eagerly they watched. They strained their eyes
to see it: they spent their strength in rigging up a tattered garment or two to serve as a
signal of distress. Then, they waited through hours of sickening, terrible suspense. And the
steamer loomed into sight: nearer it came and nearer. They were upon its track: surely succour
was nigh at hand.

And succour came. The great vessel slackened its pace: it came to a standstill and waited,
heaving to and fro upon the waters, as if it were a live thing with a beating and compassionate
heart. The two men in the boat, standing up and faintly endeavouring to raise their voices,
saw that a great crowd of heads was turned towards them from the sides of the vessel, that
a boat was lowered and pushed off. The plashing of oars, the sound of a cheer, came to the
ears of the seafarers. The old sailor muttered something that sounded like "Thank God!" and
his companion burst into tears, but the man at the bottom of the boat lay still: they had not
been able to make him hear or understand. The officer in the boat from the steamer stood up
as it approached, and to him the old man addressed himself as soon as he could speak.

"We're the second mate and bo'sun of the Falcon, sir, and one steerage passenger. Destroyed
by fire five days ago; and we've been in this here cockle-shell ever since." But his voice
was so husky and dry that he was almost unintelligible. "Mates, for the love of Heaven, give
us summat to drink," cried the other man, as he was lifted into the boat. And in a few minutes
they were speeding back to the steamer, and the sailors were trying to pour a few drops of
brandy and water down the parched throat of the one man who seemed to be beyond speech and
movement.

The mate was able to give a concise account of the perils of the last few days when he arrived
on board the Arizona; but there was little to relate. The story of a fire, of a hurried escape,
of the severance of the boats, and the agonies of thirst endured by the survivors had nothing
in it that was particularly new. The captain dismissed the men good-humouredly to the care
of cook and steward: it was only the steerage passenger who required to be put under the doctor's
care. It seemed that he had been hurt by the falling of a spar, and severely scorched in trying
to save a child who was in imminent danger; and, though he had at first been the most cheery
and hopeful of the party, his strength had soon failed, and he had lain half or wholly unconscious
for the greater part of the last two or three days.

There was one passenger on board the Arizona who listened to all these details with a keener
interest than that shown by any other listener. He went down and talked to the men himself
as soon as he had the chance and asked their names. One of the officers came with him, and
paid an almost equally keen attention to the replies.

"Mine's Thomas Jackson, sir; and the bo'sun's name it is Fall--Andrew Fall. And the passenger,
sir? Steerage he was: he was called Mackay."

"No, he warn't," said the boatswain, in a gruff tone. "Saving your presence, sir, his name
was Smith."

"Mackay," said the mate, with equal positiveness. "And a fine fellow he was, too, and one of
the best for cheering of us up with his stories and songs; and not above a bit of a prayer,
too, when the worst came to the worst. I heard him myself."

"No sign of your friend here, Mr. Heron, I'm afraid," whispered the ship's officer.

"I am afraid not. Was there a passenger on board the Falcon called Stretton."

"No, sir. I'm sure o' that."

"Or--Luttrell?"

Percival Heron knew well enough that no such name had been found amongst the list of passengers;
but he had a vague notion that Brian might have resumed his former appellation for some reason
or other after he came on board. Thomas Jackson considered the subject for a few minutes.

"I ain't rightly sure, sir. Seems to me there was a gent of that name, or something like it,
on board: but if so, he was amongst those in the other boat."

"I should like to see this man Mackay--or Smith," said Percival.

The berth in which the steerage passenger lay was pointed out to him: he looked at the face
upon the pillow, and shook his head. A rough, reddened, blistered face it was, with dirt grained
into the pores and matting the hair and beard: not in the least like the countenance of the
man whom he had come to seek.

"We may fall in with the other boat," suggested the officer.

But though the steamer went out of her course in search of it, and a careful watch was kept
throughout the day and night, the other boat could not be seen.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

WRECKED.

Percival cultivated acquaintance with the two sailors, and tried to obtain from them some description
of the passengers on board the Falcon. But description was not their forte. He gained nothing
but a clumsy mass of separate facts concerning passengers and crew, which assisted him little
in forming an opinion as to whether Brian Luttrell had, or had not, been on board. He was inclined
to think--not.

"But he seemed to have a slippery habit of turning up in odd places where you don't in the
least expect to find him," soliloquised Percival over a cigar. "Why couldn't he have stayed
comfortably dead in that glacier? Or why did the brain fever not carry him off? He has as many
lives as a cat. He, drowned or burnt when the Falcon was on fire? Not a bit of it. I'll believe
in Mr. Brian Luttrell's death when I have seen him screwed into his coffin, followed him to
the grave, ordered a headstone, and written his epitaph. And even then, I should feel that
there was no knowing whether he had not buried himself under false pretences, and was, in reality,
enjoying life at the Antipodes. I don't know anybody else who can be, 'like Cerberus, three
gentlemen at once.' I shall nail him to one alias for the future, if I catch him. But there
seems very little chance of my catching him at all. I've come on a wild-goose chase, and can't
expect to succeed."

This mood of comparative depression did not last long. Percival felt certain that the other
boat would be overtaken, or that Brian would be found to have sailed in another ship. He could
not reconcile himself to any idea of returning to Elizabeth with his task half done.

They were nearing the Equator, and the heat of the weather was great. It was less fine, however,
than was usually the case, and when Percival turned into his berth one night, he noticed that
the stars were hidden, and that rain was beginning to fall. He slept lightly, and woke now
and then to hear the swish of water outside, and the beat of the engines, the dragging of a
rope, or the step of a sailor overhead. He was dreaming of Elizabeth, and that she was standing
with him beside Brian Luttrell's grave, when suddenly he awoke with a violent start, and a
sense that the world was coming to an end. In another moment he was out of his berth and on
the floor. There had been a scraping sound, then a crash--and then the engines had stopped.
There was a swaying sensation for a second or two, and then another bump. Percival knew instinctively
what was the matter. The ship had struck.

After that moment's silence there was an outcry, a trampling of feet, a few minutes' wild confusion.
The voice of the captain rose strong and clear above the hubbub as he gave his orders. Percival,
already half-dressed, made his appearance on deck and soon learned what was the matter. The
ship had struck twice heavily, and was now filling as rapidly as possible. The sailors were
making preparations for launching the long boat. "Women and children first," said the captain,
in his stentorian tones.

The noise subsided as he made his calm presence felt. The children cried, indeed, and a few
of the women shrieked aloud; but the men passengers and crew alike, bestirred themselves to
collect necessary articles, to reassure the timid, and to make ready the boats.

Percival was amongst the busiest and the bravest. His strength made him useful, and it was
easier for him to use it in practical work than to stand and watch the proceedings, or even
to console women and children. For one moment he had a deep and bitter sense of anger against
the ordering of his fate. Was he to go down into the deep waters in the hey-day of his youth
and strength, before he had done his work or tasted the reward of work well done? Had Brian
Luttrell experienced a like fate? And what would become of Elizabeth, sitting lonely in the
midst of splendours which she had felt were not justly hers, waiting for weeks and months and
years, perhaps, for the lovers who would never come back until the sea gave up its dead?

Percival crushed back the thought. There was no time for anything but action. And his senses
seemed gifted with preternatural acuteness. He saw a child near him put her little hand into
that of a soldierly-looking man, and heard her whisper--"You won't leave me, papa?" And the
answer--"Never, my darling. Don't fear." Just behind him a man whispered in a woman's ear--"Forgive
me, Mary." Percival wondered vaguely what that woman had to forgive. He never saw any of the
speakers again.

For a strange thing happened. Strange, at least, it seemed to him; but he understood it afterwards.
The ship was really resting upon a ledge of the rock on which she had struck: there was little
to be seen in the darkness except a white line of breakers and a mass of something beyond--was
it land? The ship gave a sudden outward lurch. There went up a cry to Heaven--a last cry from
most of the souls on board the ill-fated Arizona--and then came the end. The vessel fell over
the edge of the rocky shelf into deep water and went down like a stone.

Percival was a good swimmer, and struck out vigorously, without any expectation, however, of
being able to maintain himself in the water for more than a very short time. Escape from the
tangled rigging and floating pieces of the wreck was a difficult matter; but the water was
very calm inside the reef, and not at all cold. He tried to save a woman as she was swept past
him: for a time he supported a child, but the effort to save it was useless. The little creature's
head struck against some portion of the wreck and it was killed on the spot. Percival let the
little dead face sink away from him into the water and swam further from the point where it
went down.

"There must be others saved as well as myself," he thought, when he was able to think at all
coherently. "At least, let me keep myself up till daylight. One may see some way of escape
then." It had been three o'clock when the ship struck. He had remembered to look at his watch
when he was first aroused. Would his strength last out till morning?

If his safety had depended entirely on his swimming powers he would have been, indeed in evil
case. But long before the first faint streak of dawn appeared, it seemed to him that he was
coming in contact with something solid--that there was something hard and firm beneath him
which he could touch from time to time. The truth came to him at last. The tide was going down;
and as it went down, it would leave a portion of the reef within his reach. There might be
some unwashed point to which he could climb as soon as daylight came. At any rate, as the waters
ebbed, he found that he could cling to the rock, and then, that he could even stand upon it,
although the waves broke over him at every moment, and sometimes nearly washed him from his hold.

Never was daylight more anxiously awaited. It came at last; a faint, grey light in the east,
a climbing flush of rose-colour, a host of crimson wavelets on a golden sea. And, as soon as
the darkness disappeared, Percival found that his conjecture was a correct one. He was not
alone. There were others beside himself who had won their way to even safer positions than
his own. Portions of the reef on which the ship had struck were now to be plainly seen above
the sea-level; it was plain that they were rarely touched by the salt water, for there was
an attempt at vegetation in one or two places. And beyond the reef Percival saw land, and land
that it would be easy enough to reach.

He turned to look for the remains of the Arizona, but there was little to be seen. The tops
of her masts were visible only in the deep water near the reef. Spars, barrels, articles of
furniture, could here and there be distinguished; nothing of value nor of interest. Percival
determined to try for the shore. But first he would see whether he could help the other men
whom he had discerned at a little distance from him on a higher portion of the reef.

He crept out to them, feeling his way cautiously, and not sure whether he might not be swept
off his feet by the force of the waves. To his surprise, when he reached the two men, he found
that they were two of the survivors from the wreck of the Falcon. One of them was Thomas Jackson,
and the other was Mackay, the steerage passenger.

"It's plain you weren't born to be drowned," said Percival, addressing Jackson, familiarly.

"No, sir, it don't seem like it," returned the man. "There's one or two more that have saved
themselves by swimming, too, I fancy. We'd better make land while we can, sir."

"Your friend's not able to help himself much, is he?" said Percival, with a sharp glance at
the bearded face of the steerage passenger.

"Swims like a duck when he's all right, sir; but at present he's got a broken leg. Fainted
just now; he'll be better presently. I wouldn't have liked to leave him behind."

"We'll haul him ashore between us," said Percival.

It was more easily said than done; but the task was accomplished at last. Thomas Jackson was
of a wiry frame: Percival's trained muscles (he had been in the boats at Oxford) stood him
in good stead. They reached the mainland, carrying the steerage passenger with them; for the
poor man, not yet half-recovered from the effects of exposure and privation, and now suffering
from a fracture of the bone just above the ankle, was certainly not in a fit state to help
himself. On the island they found a few cocoa-nut trees: under one of these they laid their
burden, and then returned to the shore to see whether there was any other castaway whom they
could assist.

In this search they were successful. One man had already followed their example and swam ashore,
but he was so much exhausted that they felt bound to help him to the friendly shade of the
cocoa-nut trees, where the steerage passenger, now conscious of his position, and as deadly
white with the pain of his broken bone as the discolouration of his scorched face permitted
him to be, moved aside a little in order to make room for him. There was another man on the
reef; but he had been crushed between the upper and lower topsails, and it was almost impossible
to get him to shore. Percival and Jackson made the effort, but a great wave swept the man into
a cavern of the reef to which he was clinging before they could come to his assistance, and
he was not seen again. With a lad of sixteen and another sailor they were more fortunate. So
that when at last they met under the tree to compare notes and count their numbers, they found
that the party consisted of six persons: Heron, Thomas Jackson, and his pet, the steerage passenger;
George Pollard, the steward; Fenwick, the sailor; and Jim Barry, the cabin boy. They stared
at each other in rather helpless silence for about a minute, and then Heron burst into a strange
laugh.

"Well, I've heard of a desert island all my life," he said, "but I never was on one before."

"I was," said Fenwick, slowly, "and I didn't expect to get landed upon another. But, Lord!
if once you go to sea, there's no telling."

"You must feel thankful that you're landed at all," remarked Percival. "You might have been
food for the fishes by this time."

"I'd most as soon," said Fenwick, in a stolid tone, which had a depressing effect on the spirits
of some of the party. The lad Barry began to whimper a little, and Pollard looked very downcast.

"Cheer up, lads," said Percival, quickly. It was wonderful to see how naturally he fell into
a position of command amongst them. "That isn't the way to get home again. Never fear but a
ship will pass the island and pick us up. We can't be far out of the ordinary course of the
steamers. We shall be here a day or two only, or a week, perhaps. What do you say, Jackson?"

Jackson drew the back of his hand across his mouth, and seemed to meditate a reply; but while
he considered the matter, the steerage passenger spoke for the first time.

"Mr. Heron is right," he said, causing Percival a moment's surprise at the fact of his name
being so accurately known by a man to whom he had never spoken either on board the Arizona
or since they landed. "We all ought to feel thankful to Almighty God for bringing us safe to
land, instead of grumbling that the island has no inhabitants. We have had a wonderful escape."

"And so say I, sir," said Jackson, touching an imaginary cap with his forefinger, while Barry
and Fenwick both looked a little ashamed of themselves, and Pollard mechanically followed the
example set by the sailor. "Them as grumbles had better keep out of my sight unless they want
to be kicked."

"You're fine fellows, both of you," cried Percival, heartily. And then he shook hands with
Jackson, and would have followed suit with the steerage passenger, had not Mackay drawn back
his hand.

"I'm not in condition for shaking hands with anybody," he said, with a smile; and Percival
remembered his burns and was content.

"I know this place," said Jackson, looking round him presently. "It's a dangerous reef, and
there's been a many accidents near it. Ships give it a wide berth, as a general rule." The
men's faces drooped when they heard this sentence. "The Duncan Dunbar was wrecked here on the
way to Auckland. The Mercurius, coming back from Sydney by way of 'Frisco, she was wrecked,
too--in '70. It's the Rocas Reef, mates, which you may have heard of or you may not; and, as
near as I remember, it's about three degrees south of the Line: longitude thirty-three twenty,
west."

"I remember now," said Percival, eagerly. His work as a journalist helped him to remember the
event to which Jackson alluded. "The men of the Mercurius found some iron tanks filled with
water, left by the Duncan Dunbar people. We might go and see if they are still here. But first
we must attend to this man's leg."

"It is not very bad," said Mackay.

"It's tremendously swollen, at any rate. Are you good at this sort of work, Jackson? I can't
say I am."

"I know something about it," said Jackson. "Let's have a look, mate."

He knelt down and felt the swollen limb, putting its owner to considerable pain, as Percival
judged from the way in which he set his teeth during the operation. Jackson had, however, a
tolerable knowledge of a rough sort of surgery, and managed to set the bone and bind up the
swollen limb in a manner that showed skill and tenderness as well as knowledge. And then Percival
proposed that they should try to find some food, and make the tour of the island before the
day grew hotter. The leadership of the party had been tacitly accorded to him from the first;
and, after a consultation with the others, Jackson stepped forward to say that they all wished
to consider themselves under Mr. Heron's orders, "he having more head than the rest of them,
and being a gentleman born, no doubt." At which Heron laughed good-humouredly and accepted
the position. "And none of us grudge you being the head," said Jackson, sagely, "except, maybe,
one, and he don't count." Heron made no response; but he wondered for a moment whether the
one who grudged him his leadership could possibly be Mackay, whose eyes had a quiet attentiveness
to all his doings, which looked almost like criticism. But there was no other fault to be found
with Mackay's manner, while against Fenwick's dogged air Percival felt some irritation.

The want of food was decidedly the first difficulty. Sea-birds' eggs and young birds, shell-fish
and turtle, were all easily to be obtained; but how were they to be cooked? Percival was not
without hopes that some tinned provisions might be cast ashore from the wreck; but at present
there was nothing of the kind to be seen. A few cocoa-nuts were procurable: and these provided
them with meat and drink for the time being. Then came the question of fire. The only possible
method of obtaining it was the Indian one of rubbing two sticks diligently together for the
space of some two hours; and Thomas Jackson sat down with stoical patience worthy of an Indian
himself to fulfil this operation.

Percival, who felt that he could not bear to be doing nothing, started off for a walk round
the island, and the rest of the party dozed in the shade until the return of their leader.

When Heron came back he made his report as cheerful as he could, but he could not make it a
particularly brilliant one, although he did his best. He was one of those men who grumble at
trifles, but are unusually bright and cheerful in the presence of a great emergency. The sneer
had left his face, the cynical accent had disappeared from his voice; he employed all his social
gifts, which were naturally great, for the entertainment of his comrades. As they ate boiled
eggs and fried fish and other morsels which seemed especially dainty when cooked over the fire
that Jackson's patient industry had lighted at last, the spirits of the whole party seemed
to rise; and Percival's determination to look upon the bright side of things, produced a most
enlivening effect. Some of them remembered afterwards, with a sort of puzzled wonder, that
they had more than once laughed heartily during their first meal upon the Rocas Reef.

Yet none of them were insensible to the danger through which they had passed, nor the terrible
position in which they stood. Uppermost in the minds of each, although none of them liked to
put it into words, was the question--How long shall we stay here? Is it likely that any ship
will observe our signal of distress and come to our aid? They looked each other furtively in
the eyes, and read no comfort in each other's face.

They had landed upon one of two islands, about fifteen acres each in size, which were separated
at high water, but communicated with each other when the tide had ebbed. Both islands lay low,
and had patches of white sand in the centre; but there was very little vegetation. Even grass
seemed as if it would not grow; and the cocoa-nut trees were few and far between.

The signs of previous wrecks struck the men's hearts with a chill. There was a log hut, to
which Mackay was moved when evening came on; there were the iron tanks of which Percival had
made mention, filled with rain-water; there were some rotten boards, and a small hammer and
a broken knife; but there was no fresh-water spring, and there were no provision chests, such
as Heron had vainly hoped to find.

The setting up of a distress-signal on the highest point of the island was the next matter
to be attended to; and for this purpose nothing could be found more suitable than a very large
yellow silk-handkerchief which Percival had found in his pocket. It did not make a very large
flag, although it was enormous as a handkerchief; but no other article of clothing could well
be spared. Indeed, the spareness of their coverings was a matter of some regret and anxiety
on Percival's part. He could not conceive what they were to do if they were on the island for
more than a few days; the rough work which would be probably necessary being somewhat destructive
of woollen and linen garments. Jackson, with whom he ventured a joke on the subject, did not
receive it in very good part. "You needn't talk as if we was to stay here for ever, Mr. Heron,
sir," he murmured. "But there's always cocoa-nut fibre, if the worst comes to the worst."

"Ah, yes, cocoa-nut fibre," said Percival, turning his eyes to one of the slim, straight stems
of the palm trees. "I forgot that. I seem to have walked straight into one of Jules Verne's
books. Gad! I wish I could walk out of it again. What a thrilling narrative I'll make of this
for the Mail when I get home. If ever I do get home. Bah, it's no use to talk of that."

These reflections were made under his breath, while Jackson walked on to examine a nest of
sea-birds' eggs; for Percival was wisely resolved against showing a single sign of undue anxiety
or depression of spirits, lest it should re-act on the minds of those who had declared themselves
his followers. For the rest of the day the party worked hard at various contrivances for their
own welfare and comfort.

Firewood was collected; birds and fish caught for the evening meal. To each member of the party
a task was assigned: even Mackay could make himself useful by watching the precious flame which
must never be suffered to go out. And thus the day wore on, and night came with its purple
stillness and its tropical wealth of stars.

The men sought shelter in the hut: Percival only, by his own choice, remained outside until
he thought that they were sleeping. He wanted to be alone. He had banished reflection pretty
successfully during the day; but at night he knew that it would get the better of him. And
he felt that he must meet and master the thronging doubts and fears and regrets that assailed
him. Whatever happened he would not be sorry that he had come. If he never saw Elizabeth's
face again, he was sure that her memories of him would be full of tenderness. What more did
he want? And yet he wanted more.

He found out what his heart desired before he laid himself down to sleep amongst the men. He
would have given a year of his life to know whether Brian Luttrell was alive or dead. And he
could not honestly say that he wished Brian Luttrell to be alive.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

ON THE ROCAS REEF.

The morning light showed several articles on the shore which had been washed up from the wreck.
Some tins of biscuits were likely to be very useful, and a box of carpenter's tools, most of
them sadly rusted, was welcomed eagerly; but nothing else was found, and the day might have
begun with murmurs of discontent but for a discovery made by Mackay, which restored satisfaction
to the men's faces.

Close by his head in the log hut where he had spent the night, he found a sort of cupboard--something
like a rabbit-hutch. And this cupboard contained--oh, joyful discovery!--not gold or gems,
nor any such useless glittering lumber, but something far more precious to these weary mariners--two
bottles of brandy and a chest of tea. Perhaps a former sojourner on the island had placed them
in that hiding-place, thinking compassionately of the voyagers who might in some future day
find themselves in bitter need upon the Rocas Reef. "Whoever it was as left 'em here," said
Pollard, "got off safe again, you may depend on it; and so shall we." Percival said nothing:
he had been thinking that perhaps the former owner of this buried treasure had died upon the
island. He hoped that they would not find his grave.

He measured out some tea for the morning's meal, but decided that neither tea nor spirits should
be used, except on special occasions or in cases of illness. The men accepted his decision
as a reasonable one; they were all well-disposed and tractable on the whole. Percival was amazed
to find them so easy to manage. But they were more depressed that morning at the thought of
their lost comrades, their wrecked ship, and the prospect of passing an indefinite time upon
the coral-reef, than they had been on the previous day. It was a relief when they were busy
at their respective tasks; and Percival found an odd kind of pleasure in all sorts of hard
and unusual work; in breaking up rotten planks, for instance; in extracting old nails painfully
and laboriously from them for future use; and in tramping to and fro between the sea-shore
and the log hut, carrying the driftwood deposited on the sand to a more convenient resting-place.
They had planned to build another hut, as the existing structure was both small and frail;
and Percival laboured at his work like a giant. In the hot time of the day, however, he was
glad to do as the others did; to throw down his tools, such as they were, and creep into the
shadow of the log hut. The heat was very great; and the men were beginning to suffer from the
bites of venomous ants which infested the island. In short, as Percival said to himself, the
Rocas Reef was about as little like Robinson Crusoe's island as it could possibly be. Life
would be greatly ameliorated if goats and parrots could be found amongst the rocks; shell-fish
and sea-fowl were a poor exchange for them; and an island that was "desert" in reality as well
as in name, was a decidedly prosaic place on which to spend a few days, or weeks, or months.
Of course he made none of these remarks in public; he contented himself with humming in an
undertone the words of Alexander Selkirk, as interpreted by Cowper:--

    "I am monarch of all I survey,
    My right there is none to dispute--"

a quotation which brought a meaning smile to Mackay's face, whereupon Percival laughed and
checked himself.

"How are you to-day?" he said, addressing the steerage passenger with some show of good-humoured
interest. Mackay was lying on the sand, propped up against the wall of the hut, and Percival
was breaking his nails over an obstinate screw which was deeply embedded in a thick piece of wood.

"Better, thanks." The voice was curiously hoarse and gruff.

"Jackson isn't a bad surgeon, I fancy."

"Not at all."

"Lucky for you that he was saved."

"I owe my life twice to him and once to you."

"I hope you think it's something to be grateful for," said Percival, carelessly. "You've had
some escapes to tell your friends about when you get home."

Mackay turned aside his head. "I have no friends to tell," he said, shortly.

"Ah! more's the pity. Well, no doubt you will make some in Pernambuco--when you get there."

"Do you think we ever shall get there?"

Percival shot a rather displeased glance at him. "Don't go talking like that before the men,"
he said.

"I am not talking before the men," rejoined the steerage passenger, with a smile: "I am talking
to you, Mr. Heron. And I repeat my question--Do you think we shall ever get to Pernambuco?"

"Yes," said Percival, stoutly. "A ship will see our signal and call for us."

"It's a very small flag," said Mackay, in a significant tone.

"Good Heavens!" burst out Percival, with the first departure from his good-humoured tone that
Mackay had heard from him: "why do you take the trouble to put that side of the question to
me? Don't you think I see it for myself? There is a chance, if it is only a small one; and
I'm not going to give up hope--yet."

Then he walked away, as if he refused to discuss the subject any longer. Mackay looked at the
sea and sighed; he was sorry that he had provoked Mr. Heron's wrath by his question. But he
found afterwards that it contributed to form a kind of silent understanding between him and
Percival. It was a sort of relief to both of them, occasionally to exchange short, sharp sentences
of doubt or discouragement, which neither of them breathed in the ear of the others. Percival
divined quickly enough, that the steerage passenger was not a man of Thomas Jackson's class.
As the hoarseness left his voice, and the disfiguring redness disappeared from his face, Percival
distinguished signs of refinement and culture which he wondered at himself for not perceiving
earlier. But there was nothing remarkable in his having made a mistake about Mackay's station
in life. The man had come on board the Arizona in a state of wretched suffering: his face had
been scorched, his hair and beard singed, his clothes, as well as his person, blackened by
dust and smoke. Then his clothes were those of a working-man, and his speech had been rendered
harsh to the ear from the hoarseness of his voice. But he gradually regained his strength as
he lay in the fresh air and the sunshine, and returning health gave back to him the quiet energy
and cheerfulness to which Jackson had borne testimony. He was a great favourite with the men,
who, in their rough way, made a sort of pet of him, and brought him offerings of the daintiest
food that they could find. And his hands were not idle. He wove baskets and plaited hats of
cocoa-nut fibre with his long white fingers, which were very unlike those of the working-man
that he professed to be. Percival Heron was often struck by the appearance of that hand. It
was one of unusual beauty--the sort of hand that Titian or Vandyke loved to draw: long, finely-shaped,
full of quiet power, and fuller, perhaps, of a subtle sort of refinement, which seems to express
itself in the form of tapering fingers with filbert nails and a well-turned wrist. It was not
the hand of a working-man, not even of a skilled artizan, whose hand is often delicately sensitive:
it was a gentleman's hand, and as such it piqued Percival's curiosity. But Mackay was of a
reserved disposition, and did not offer any information about himself.

One day when rain was falling in sheets and torrents, as it did sometimes upon the Rocas Reef,
Percival turned into the log hut for shelter. Mackay was there, too; his leg had been so painful
that he had not left the rude bed, which his comrades had made for him, even to be carried
out into the fresh air and sunshine, for two or three days. Percival noticed the look of pain
in the languid eyes, and had, for a moment, a fancy that he had seen this man before. But the
burns on his face, the handkerchief tied round his head to conceal a wound on the temple, and
the tangled brown beard and moustache, made it difficult to seize hold of a possible likeness.

Percival threw himself on the ground with a half-sigh, and crossed his arms behind his head.

"Is anything the matter?" asked Mackay.

Percival noticed that he never addressed him as "Sir" or "Mr. Heron," unless the other men
were present.

"Jackson's ill," said Percival, curtly.

Mackay started and turned on his elbow.

"Ill?"

"Fever, I'm afraid. Not bad; just a touch of it. He's in the other hut."

"I'm sorry for that," said Mackay, lying down again.

"So am I. He is the steadiest man among them. How the rain pours! Pollard is sitting with him."

There was a little silence, after which Percival spoke again.

"Are you keeping count of the days? How long is it since we landed?"

"Sixteen days."

"Is that all? I thought it had been longer."

"You were anxious to get to your journey's end, I suppose," said the steerage passenger, after
a little hesitation.

"Aren't we all anxious? Do we want to stay here for ever?" And then there was another pause,
which ended by Percival's saying, in a tone of subdued irritation: "There are few of our party
that have the same reasons that I have for wishing myself on the way back to England."

"You are not going to stay in South America, then?"

"Not I. There is someone I want to find; that's all."

"A man?"

"Yes, a man. I thought that he had sailed in the Falcon; but I suppose I was mistaken."

"And if you don't find him?"

"I must hunt the world over until I do. I won't go back to England without him, if he's alive."

"Friend or enemy?" said Mackay, fixing his eyes on Percival's face with a look of interest.
At any other time Percival might have resented the question: here, in the log hut, with a tempest
roaring and the rain streaming outside, and the great stormy sea as a barrier between the dwellers
on the island and the rest of the civilised world, such questions and answers seemed natural
enough.

"Enemy," said Percival, sharply. It was evident that some hidden sense of wrong had sprung
suddenly to the light, and perhaps amazed him by its strength, for he began immediately to
explain away his answer. "Hum! not that exactly. But not a friend."

"And you want to do him an injury!" said Mackay, with grave consideration.

"No, I don't," said Percival, angrily, as if replying to a suggestion that had been made a
thousand times before, and flinging out his arm with a reckless, agitated gesture. "I want
to do him a service--confound him!"

There was a silence. Percival lay with his outstretched hand clenched and his eyes fixed gloomily
on the opposite wall: Mackay turned away his head. Presently, however, he spoke in a low but
distinct tone.

"What is the service you propose doing me, Mr. Heron?"

"Doing you? Good Heavens! You! What do you mean?"

"I suppose that my face is a good deal disfigured at present," said the steerage passenger,
passing his hand lightly over his thick, brown beard; "but when it is better, you will probably
recognise me easily enough. But, perhaps, I am mistaken. I thought for a moment that you were
in search of a man called Stretton, who was formerly a tutor to your step-brothers."

Percival was standing erect by this time in the middle of the floor. His hands were thrust
into his pockets: his deep chest heaved: the bronzed pallor of his face had turned to a dusky
red. He did not answer the words spoken to him; but after a few seconds of silence, in which
the eyes of the two men met and told each other a good deal, he strode to the doorway, pushed
aside the plank which served for a door, and went out into the storm. He did not feel the rain
beating upon his head: he did not hear the thunder, nor see the forked lightning that played
without intermission in the darkened sky; he was conscious only of the intolerable fact that
he was shut up in a narrow corner of the earth, in daily, almost hourly, companionship with
the one man for whom he felt something not unlike fierce hatred. And in spite of his resolution
to act generously for Elizabeth's sake, the hatred flamed up again when he found himself so
suddenly thrust, as it were, into Brian Luttrell's presence.

When he had walked for some time and got thoroughly wet through, it occurred to him that he
was acting more like a child than a grown man; and he turned his face as impetuously towards
the huts as he had lately turned his back upon them. He found plenty to do when the rain ceased.
The fire had for the first time gone out, and the patience of Jackson could not now be taxed,
because he was lying on his back in the stupor of fever. Percival set one of the men to work
with two sticks; but the wood was nearly all damp, and it was a weary business, even when two
dry morsels were found, to get them to light. However, it was better than having nothing to
do. Want of employment was one of their chief trials. The men could not always be catching
fish and snaring birds. They were thinking of building a small boat; but Jackson's illness
deprived them of the help of one who had more practical knowledge of such matters than any
of the others, and threw a damp over their spirits as well.

Jackson's illness seemed to give Percival a pretext for absenting himself from the hut in which
the so-called Mackay lay. He had, just at first, an invincible repugnance to meeting him again;
he could not make up his mind how Brian Luttrell would expect to be treated, and he was almost
morbidly sensitive about the mistake that he had made respecting "the steerage passenger."
At night he stayed with Jackson, and sent the other men to sleep in Mackay's hut. But in the
morning an absolute necessity arose for him to speak to his enemy.

Jackson was sensible, though extremely weak, when the daylight came: and his first remark was
an anxious one concerning the state of his comrade's broken leg. "Will you look after it a
bit, sir?" he said, wistfully, to Heron.

"I'll do my best. Don't bother yourself," said Percival, cheerfully. And accordingly he presented
himself at an early hour in the other sleeping-place, and addressed Brian in a very matter
of fact tone.

"Your leg must be seen to this morning. I shall make a poor substitute for Jackson, I'm afraid;
but I think I shall do it better than Pollard or Fenwick."

"I've no doubt of that," said the man with the brown beard and bright, quick eyes. "Thank you."

And that was all that passed between them.

It was wonderful to see the determined, unsparing way in which Percival worked that day. His
energy never flagged. He was a little less good-tempered than usual; the upright black line
in his forehead was very marked, and his utterances were not always amiable. But he succeeded
in his object; he made himself so thoroughly tired that he slept as soon as his head touched
his hard pillow, and did not wake until the sun was high in the heaven. The men showed a good
deal of consideration for him. Fenwick watched by the sick man, and Pollard and Barry bestirred
themselves to get ready the morning meal, and to attend to the wants of their two helpless
companions.

It was not until evening that Brian found an opportunity to say to Percival:--

"What did you want to find me for?"

"Can't you let the matter rest until we are off this ---- island?" said Percival, losing control
of that hidden fierceness for a moment.

And Brian answered rather coldly:--"As you please."

Percival waited awhile, and then said, more deliberately:--

"I'll tell you before long. There is no hurry, you see"--with a sort of grim humour--"there
is no post to catch, no homeward-bound mail steamer in the harbour. We cannot give each other
the slip now."

"Do you mean that I gave you the slip?" said Brian, to whom Percival's tone was charged with
offence.

"I mean that Brian Luttrell would not have been allowed to leave England quite so easily as
Mr. Stretton was. But I won't discuss it just now. You'll excuse my observing that I think
I would drop the 'Mackay' if I were you. It will hurt nobody here if you are called Luttrell;
and--I hate disguises."

"The name Luttrell is as much a disguise as any other," said Brian, shortly. "But you may use
it if you choose."

He was hardly prepared, however, for the round eyes with which the lad Barry regarded him when
he next entered the log hut, nor for the awkward way in which he gave a bashful smile and pulled
the front lock of his hair when Brian spoke to him.

"What are you doing that for?" he said, quickly.

"Well, sir, it's Mr. Heron's orders," said Barry.

"What orders?"

"That we're to remember you're a gentleman, sir. Gone steerage in a bit of a freak; but now
you've told him you'd prefer to be called by your proper name. Mr. Luttrell, that is."

"I'm no more a gentleman than you are," said Brian, abruptly. "Call me Mackay at once as you
used to do."

Barry shook his head with a knowing look. "Daren't sir. Mr. Heron is a gentleman that will
have his own way. And he said you had a big estate in Scotland, sir; and lots of money."

"What other tales did he tell you?" said Brian, throwing back his head restlessly.

"Well, I don't know, sir. Only he told us that we'd better nurse you up as well as we could
before we left the island, and that there was one at home as would give money to see you alive
and well. A lady, I think he meant."

"What insane folly!" muttered Brian to himself. "Look here, Barry," he added aloud, "Mr. Heron
was making jokes at your expense and mine. He meant nothing of the kind; I haven't a penny
in the world, and I'm on the way to the Brazils to earn my living as a working-man. Now do
you understand?"

Barry retired, silenced but unconvinced. And the next time that Brian saw Percival alone, he
said to him drily:--

"I would rather make my own romances about my future life, if it's all the same to you."

"Eh? What? What do you mean?"

"Don't tell these poor fellows that I have property in Scotland, please. It is not the case."

"Oh, that's what you're making a fuss about. But I can't help it," said Percival, shrugging
his shoulders. "If you are Brian Luttrell, as Vasari swears you are--swearing it to his own
detriment, too, which inclines me to believe that it is true--the Strathleckie estate is yours."

"You can't prove that I am Brian Luttrell."

"But I might prove--when we get back to Scotland--that you bore the name of Brian Luttrell
for three or four-and-twenty years of your life."

"I am not going back to Scotland," said the young man, looking steadily and attentively at
Percival's troubled countenance.

"Yes, you are. I promised that you should come back, and you must not make me break my word."

"Whom did you promise?"

"I promised Elizabeth."

And then the two men felt that the conversation had better cease. Percival walked rapidly away,
while Brian, who could not walk anywhere, lay flat on his back and listened, with dreamy eyes,
to the long monotonous rise and fall of the waves upon the shore.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

BETWEEN LIFE AND DEATH.

"Pollard's down with this fever," was the announcement which Percival made to Brian a few days
later.

"Badly?"

"A smart touch. And Jackson doesn't mend as he ought to do. I can't understand why either of
them should have it at all. The island may be barren, but it ought to be healthy."

"I wish I could do anything beside lying here like a log."

"Well, you can't," said Percival, by no means unkindly. "I never heard that it was any good
to stand on a broken leg. I'll manage."

Such interchange of semi-confidential sentences was now rare between them. Percival was, for
the most part, very silent when circumstances threw him into personal contact with Brian; and
there was something repellant about this silence--something which prevented Brian from trying
to break it. Brian was feeling bitterly that he had done Percival some wrong: he knew that
he might justly be blamed for returning to Scotland after his supposed death. He need not have
practised any deception at all, but, having practised it, he ought to have maintained it. He
had no right to let the estates pass to Elizabeth unless he meant her to keep them. Such, he
imagined, might well be Percival's attitude of mind towards him.

And then there was the question of his love for Elizabeth, of which both Elizabeth herself
and Dino Vasari had made Heron aware. But in this there was nothing to be ashamed of. When
he fell in love with Elizabeth, he thought her comparatively poor and friendless, and he did
not know of her engagement to Percival. He never whispered to himself that he had won her heart:
that fact, which Elizabeth fancied that she had made shamefully manifest, had not been grasped
by Brian's consciousness at all. He would have thought himself a coxcomb to imagine that she
cared for him more than as a friend. If he had ever dreamt of such a thing, he assured himself
that he had made a foolish mistake.

He thought that he understood what Percival wanted to say to him. Of course, since Dino had
disclosed the truth, Elizabeth Murray desired to give up the property, and her lover had volunteered
to come in search of the missing man. It was a generous act, and one that Brian thoroughly
admired: it was worthy, he thought, of Elizabeth's lover. For he knew that he had always been
especially obnoxious to Percival Heron in his capacity as tutor; and now, if he were to assume
the character of a claimant to Elizabeth's estates, he would certainly not find the road to
Percival's liking. For his own part, Brian respected and liked Percival Heron much more than
he had found it possible to do during those flying visits to Italy, when he had systematically
made himself disagreeable to the unknown Mr. Stretton. He admired the way in which Percival
assumed the leadership of the party, and bore the burden of all their difficulties on his own
broad shoulders: he admired his cheerfulness and untiring energy. He was sure that if Heron
could succeed in carrying him off to England, and forcing him to make Elizabeth a poor woman
instead of a rich one, he would be only too pleased to do so. But this was a thing which Brian
did not mean to allow.

Jackson's illness was a protracted one, and left him in a weak state, from which he had not
recovered when Pollard died. Then the boy Barry fell ill--out of sheer fright, Percival declared;
but his attack was a very slight one, prolonged from want of energy rather than real indisposition.
Heron was the only nurse, for Fenwick's strength had to be utilised in procuring food for the
party; and, as he was often up all night and busy all day long, it was no surprise to Brian
when at last he staggered, rather than walked into the hut, and threw himself down on the ground,
declaring himself so tired that he could not keep awake. And he had scarcely said the words
when slumber overpowered him.

Brian, who was beginning to move about a very little, crawled to the door and managed to attract
Fenwick's attention. The man--a rough, black-bearded sailor--came up to him with a less surly
look than usual.

"How's Barry?" said Brian.

"Better. He's all right. They've both got round the corner now, though I think the master thought
yesterday that Barry would follow Pollard. It was faint-heartedness as killed Pollard, and
it's faint-heartedness that'll kill Barry, if he don't look out."

"See here," said Brian, indicating the sleeper with his finger. "You don't think Mr. Heron
has got the fever, do you?"

Fenwick took a step forward and looked stolidly at Percival's face, which was very pale.

"Not he. Dead-beat, sir; that's all. He's done his work like a man, and earned a sleep. He'll
be right when he wakes."

Armed with this assurance, Brian resumed his occupation of weaving cocoa-nut fibre; but he
grew uneasy, when, at the end of a couple of hours, Percival's face began to flush and his
limbs to toss restlessly upon the ground. He muttered incoherent words from time to time, and
at last awoke and asked for water. Brian's walking was a matter of difficulty; he took some
minutes in crossing the room to bring a cocoa-nut, which had been made into a cup, to Percival's
side; and by the time he had done it, Heron was wide awake.

"What on earth are you doing, bringing me water in this way? You ought to be lying down, and
I ought to go to Barry. If I were not so sleepy!"

"Go to sleep," said Brian. "Barry's all right. I asked Fenwick just now."

"I suppose I've gone and caught it," said Percival, in a decidedly annoyed tone of voice. "A
nice state of things if I were to be laid up! I won't be laid up either. It's to a great extent
a matter of will; look at Barry--and Pollard." His voice sank a little at the latter name.

"You're only tired: you will be all right presently."

"You don't think I'm going to have the fever, then?"

"No," said Brian, wondering a little at his anxiety.

There was a long pause: then Heron spoke again.

"Luttrell." It was the first time that he had addressed Brian by his name. "If I have the fever
and go off my head as the others have all done, will you remember--it's just a fancy of mine--that
I--I don't exactly want you to hear what I say! Leave me in this hut, or move me into the other
one, will you?"

"I'll do as you wish," said Brian, seriously, "but I needn't tell you that I should attach
no importance to what you said. And I should be pleased to do anything that I was able to do
for you, if you were ill."

"Well," said Percival, "I may not be ill after all. But I thought I would mention it. And,
Luttrell, supposing I were to follow Pollard's example--"

"What is the good of talking in that way when you are not even ill?"

"Never mind that. If you get off this island and I don't, I want you to promise me to go and
see Elizabeth." Then, as Brian hesitated, "You must go. You must see her and talk to her; do
you hear? Good Heavens! How can you hesitate? Do you mean to let her think for ever that I
have betrayed her trust?"

Decidedly the fever was already working in his veins. The flushed face, the unnaturally brilliant
eyes, the excitement of his manner, all testified to its presence. Brian felt compelled to
answer quietly,

"I promise."

"All right," said Percival, lying down again and closing his eyes. "And now you can tell Fenwick
that he's got another patient. It's the fever; I know the signs."

And he was right. But the fever took a different course with him from that which it had taken
with the others: he was never delirious at all, but lay in a death-like stupor from which it
seemed that he might not awake. Once--some days after the beginning of his illness--he came
to himself for a few minutes with unexpected suddenness. It was midnight, and there was no
light in the hut beyond that which came from the brilliant radiance of the moon as it shone
in at the open door. Percival opened his eyes and made a sound, to which Brian answered immediately
by giving him something to drink.

"You've broken your promise," said Percival, in a whisper, keeping his eyes fixed suspiciously
on Brian's face.

"No. You have never been delirious, so I never needed to leave you."

"A quibble," murmured Heron, with the faintest possible smile. "However--I'm not sorry to have
you here. You'll stay now, even if I talk nonsense?"

"Of course I will." Brian was glad of the request.

In another moment the patient had relapsed into insensibility; but, curiously enough, after
this, conversation, Percival's mind began to wander, and he "talked nonsense" as persistently
as the others had done. Brian could not see why he had at first told him to keep away. He was
quite prepared for some revelation of strong feeling against himself, but none ever came. Elizabeth's
name occurred very frequently; but for the most, part, it was connected with reminiscences
of the past of which Brian knew nothing. Early meetings, walks about London, boy and girl quarrels
were talked of, but about recent events he was silent.

Brian wondered whether he himself and Fenwick would also succumb to the malarious influences
of the place; but these two escaped. Fenwick was never ill; and Brian grew stronger every day.
When Percival opened his eyes once more upon him, after three weeks of illness, he said, abruptly:--

"Ah, if you had looked like that when you came on board the Arizona, I should never have been
deceived."

Brian smiled, and made no answer. Percival watched him hobbling about the room for some minutes,
and then said:--

"How long have we been on the island?"

"Forty-seven days."

"And not a sail in sight the whole time?"

"Two, but they did not come near enough to see our signals--or passed them by."

"My God!" said Percival, faintly. "Will it never end?" And then he turned away his face.

After a little silence he asked, uneasily:--

"Did I say much when I was ill?"

"Nothing of any consequence."

"But about you," said Percival, turning his hollow eyes on Brian with painful earnestness,
"did I talk about you? Did I say----"

"You never mentioned my name so far as I know. So make your mind easy on that score. Now, don't
talk any more: you are not fit for it. You must eat, and drink, and sleep, so as to be ready
when that dilatory ship comes to take us off."

Percival did his duty in these respects. He was a more docile patient than Brian had expected
to find him. But he did not seem to recover his buoyant spirits with his strength. He had long
fits of melancholy brooding, in which the habitual line between his brows became more marked
than ever. But it was not until two or three weeks more of their strangely monotonous existence
had passed by, that Brian Luttrell got any clue to the kind of burden that was weighing upon
Heron's mind.

The day had been fiercely hot, but the night was cool, and Brian had half-closed the door through
which the sea-breeze was blowing, and the light of the stars shone down. He and Percival continued
to share this hut (the other being tenanted by the three seamen), and Brian was sitting on
the ground, stirring up a compound of cocoa-nut milk, eggs and brandy, with which he meant
to provide Percival for supper. Percival lay, as usual, on his couch, watching his movements
by the starlight. When the draught had been swallowed, Heron said:--

"Don't go to sleep yet. I wish you would sit down here. I want to say something."

Brian complied, and Percival went on in his usual abrupt fashion.

"You know I rather thought I should not get better."

"I know."

"It might have been more convenient if I had not. Did you never feel so?"

"No, never."

"If I had been buried on the Rocas Reef," said Percival, with biting emphasis, "you would have
kept your promise, gone back to England, and--married Elizabeth."

"I never considered that possibility," answered Brian, with perfect quietness and some coldness.

"Then you're a better fellow than I am. Look here," said Percival, with vehemence, "in your
place I could not have nursed a man through an illness as you have done. The temptation would
have been too strong: I should have killed him."

"I am sure you would have done nothing of the kind, Heron. You are incapable of treachery."

"You won't say so when you know all that I am going to tell you. Prepare your mind for deeds
of villainy," said Percival, rallying his forces and trying to laugh; "for I am going to shock
your virtuous ear. It's been on my mind ever since I was taken ill; and I was so afraid that
I should let it out when I was light-headed, that, as you know, I asked you not to stay with me."

"Don't tell me now: I'll take it on trust. Any time will do," said Brian, shrinking a little
from the allusion to his own story that he knew would follow.

"No time like the present," responded Heron, obstinately. "I've been a pig-headed brute; that's
the chief thing. Now, don't interrupt, Luttrell. Miss Murray, you know, was engaged to me when
you first saw her."

"Yes, but I didn't know it!" said Brian, with vehemence almost equal to Percival's own.

"Of course you didn't. I understand all that. It was the most natural thing in the world for
you to admire her."

"Admire her!" repeated Brian, in an enigmatic tone.

"Let the word stand for something stronger if you don't like it. Perhaps you do not know that
your friend, Dino Vasari, the man who claimed to be Brian Luttrell, betrayed your secrets to
me. It was he who told me your name, and your love for Miss Murray. She had mentioned that
to me, too; or rather I made her tell me."

"Dino confessed that he had been to you," said Brian, who was sitting with his hand arched
over his eyes. "He had some wild idea of making a sort of compromise about the property, to
which I was to be a party."

"Did he tell you the terms of the compromise?"

"No."

"Then I won't--just now. I'll tell you what I did, Luttrell, and you may call me a cad for
it, if you like: I refused to do anything towards bringing about this compromise, and, although
I knew when you were to sail, I did not try to detain you! You should have heard the blowing-up
I had afterwards from old Colquhoun for not dropping a word to him!"

"I am very glad you did not. He could not have hindered me."

"Yes, he could. Or I could. Some of us would have hindered you, you may depend on it. And,
if I had said that word, don't you see, you would never have set foot in the Falcon nor I in
the Arizona, and we should both have been safe at home, instead of disporting ourselves, like
Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday, on a desert island."

"It's too late to think of that now," said Brian, rather sadly.

"Too late! that's the worst of it. You've the right to reproach me. Of course, I know I was
to blame."

"No, I don't see that. I don't reproach you in the least. You knew so little, that it must
have seemed unnecessary to make a fuss about what you had heard."

"I heard quite enough," said Percival, with a short laugh. "I knew what I ought to do--and
I didn't do it. That's the long and the short of it. If I had spoken, you would not be here.
That makes the sting of it to me now."

"Don't think of that. I don't mind. You made up for all by coming after me."

"I think," said Percival, emphatically, "that if a word could have killed you when I first
knew who you were, you wouldn't have had much chance of life, Luttrell. I was worse than that
afterwards. If ever I had the temptation to take a man's life----"

"Keep all that to yourself," said Brian, in a quick, resolute tone. "There is no use in telling
it to me. You conquered the temptation, if there was one; that I know; and if there was anything
else, forget it, as I shall forget what you have told me. I have something to ask your pardon
for, besides."

Percival's chest heaved; the emotion of the moment found vent in one audible sob. He stretched
out his hand, which Brian clasped in silence. For a few minutes neither of them spoke.

"It was chiefly to prove to myself that I was not such a black sheep as some persons declared
me to be, that I made up my mind to follow you and bring you back," said Percival, with his
old liveliness of tone. "You see I had been more selfish than anybody knew. Shall I tell you how?"

"If you like."

"You say you don't know what Dino Vasari suggested. That subtle young man made a very bold
proposition. He said he would give up his claim to the property if I would relinquish my claim
to Miss Murray's hand. The property and the hand thus set at liberty were both to be bestowed
upon you, Mr. Brian Luttrell. Dino Vasari was then to retire to his monastery, and I to mine--that
is, to my bachelor's diggings and my club--after annihilating time and space 'to make two lovers
happy.'"

"Don't jest on that subject," said Brian in a low, pained tone. "What a wild idea! Poor Dino!"

"Poor me, I think, since I was to be in every sense the loser. I am sorry to say I didn't treat
your friend with civility, Luttrell. After your departure, however, he went himself to Netherglen,
and there, it seems, he put the finishing stroke to any claim that he might have on the property."
And then Percival proceeded to relate, as far as he knew it, the story of Dino's visit to Mrs.
Luttrell, its effect on Mrs. Luttrell's health, and the urgent necessity that there was for
Brian to return and arrange matters with Elizabeth. Brian tried to evade the last point, but
Percival insisted on it so strongly that he was obliged to give him a decisive answer.

"No," he said, at last. "I'm sorry to make it seem as if your voyage had been in vain; but,
if we ever get off the Rocas Reef, I shall go on to the Brazils. There is not the least reason
for me to go home. I could not possibly touch a penny of the Luttrells' money after what has
happened. Miss Murray must keep it."

"But, you see, there will be legal forms to go through, even if she does keep it, for which
your presence will be required."

"You don't mean that, Heron; you know I can do all that in writing."

"You won't get Miss Murray to touch a farthing of it either."

"You must persuade her," said Brian, calmly. "I think you will understand my feeling, when
I say that I would rather she had it--she and you--than anybody in the world."

"You must come back. I promised to bring you back," returned Percival, with some agitation
of manner. "I said that I would not go back without you."

"I will write to Mr. Colquhoun and explain."

"Confound it! What Colquhoun thinks does not signify. It is Elizabeth whom I promised."

"Well," said Brian slowly, and with some difficulty, "I think I can explain it to her, too,
if you will let me write to her."

Percival suppressed a groan.

"Why should I go back?" asked Luttrell. "I see no reason."

"And I wish you did not drive me to tell you the reason," said Percival, in crabbed, reluctant
tones. "But it must come, sooner or later. If you won't go for any other reason, will you go
when I tell you that Elizabeth Murray cares for you as she never cared for me, and never will
care for any other man in the world? That was why I came to fetch you back; and, if you don't
find it a reason for going back and marrying her, why--you deserve to stop on the Rocas Reef
for the remainder of your natural life!"

CHAPTER XL.

KITTY.

Winter had come to our cold northern isles. The snow lay thick upon the ground, but a sharp
frost had made it hard and crisp. It sparkled in a flood of brilliant sunshine; the air was
fresh and exhilarating, the sky transparently blue. It was a pleasant day for walking, and
one that Miss Kitty Heron seemed thoroughly to enjoy, as she trod the white carpet with which
nature had provided the world.

She carried a little basket on her arm: a basket filled with good things for some children
in a cottage not far from Strathleckie. The good things were of Elizabeth's providing; but
Kitty acted as her almoner. Kitty was a very charming almoner, with her slight, graceful little
figure and mignonne face set off by a great deal of brown fur and a dress of deep Indian red.
The sharpness in the air brought a faint colour to her cheeks--Kitty was generally rather pale--and
a new brightness to her pretty eyes. There was something delightfully bewitching about her:
something provoking and coquettish: something of which Hugo Luttrell was pleasantly conscious
as he came down the road to meet her and then walked for a little way at her side.

They did not say very much. There were a few ardent speeches from him, a vehement sort of love-making,
which Kitty parried with a good deal of laughing adroitness, some saucy speeches from her which
all the world might have heard, and then the cottage was reached.

"Let me go in with you," said Hugo.

"Certainly not. You would frighten the children."

"Am I so very terrible? Not to you; don't say that I frighten you."

"I should think not," said Kitty, with a little toss sideways of her dainty head. "I am frightened
of nothing."

"I should think not. I should think that you were the bravest of women, as you are the most
charming."

"Oh, please! I am not accustomed to these compliments. I must take my cakes to the children.
Good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Hugo, taking her hand, and keeping it in his own while he spoke. "I may wait
for you here and go back with you to Strathleckie, may I not?"

"Oh, dear, no," said Kitty. "You'll catch cold."

Then she looked down at her imprisoned hand, and up into his face, sweetly smiling all the
time, and, if they had not been within sight of the cottage windows, Hugo would have taken
her in his arms and kissed her there and then.

"I never catch cold. I shall walk about here till you come back. You don't dislike my company,
I hope?"

It was said vehemently, with a sudden kindling of his dark eyes.

"Oh, no," answered Kitty, feeling rather frightened, in spite of her previous professions of
courage, though she did not quite know why. "I shall be very pleased. I must go now." And then
she vanished hastily into the cottage.

Hugo waited for some time, little guessing the fact that she was protracting her visit as much
as possible, and furtively peeping through the blinds now and then in order to see if he were
gone. Kitty had had some experience of his present mood, and was not certain that she liked
it. But his patience was greater than hers. She was forced to come out at last, and before
she had gone two steps he was at her side.

"I thought you were never going to leave that wretched hole," he said.

"Don't call it a wretched hole. It is very clean and nice. I often think that I should like
to live in a cottage like that."

"With someone who loved you," said Hugo, coming nearer, and gazing into her face.

Kitty made a little moue.

"The cottage would only hold one person comfortably," she said.

"Then you shall not live in a cottage. You shall live in a far pleasanter place. What should
you say to a little villa on the shores of the Mediterranean, with orange groves behind it,
and the beautiful blue sea before? Should you like that, Kitty? You have only to say the word,
and you know that it will be yours."

"Then I won't say the word," said Kitty, turning away her head. "I like Scotland better than
the Mediterranean."

"Then let it be Scotland. What should you say to Netherglen?"

"I prefer Strathleckie," replied the girl, with her most provoking smile.

"That is no answer. You must give me an answer some day," said Hugo, whose voice was beginning
to tremble. "You know what I mean: you know----"

"Oh, what a lovely bit of bramble in the hedge!" cried Kitty, making believe that she had not
been listening. "Look, it has still a leaf or two, and the stem is frosted all over and the
veins traced in silver! Do get it for me: I must take it home."

Hugo did her bidding rather unwillingly; but his sombre eyes were lighted with a reluctant
smile, or a sort of glow that did duty for a smile, as she thanked him.

"It is beautiful: it is like a piece of fairies' embroidery; far more beautiful than jewels
would be. Oh, I wonder how people can make such a fuss about jewels, when they are so much
less beautiful than these simple, natural things."

"These will soon melt away; jewels won't melt," said Hugo. "I should like to see you with jewels
on your neck and arms--you ought to be covered with diamonds."

"That is not complimentary," laughed Kitty, "it sounds as if you thought they would make me
better-looking. Now, you should compliment a person on what she is, and not on what she might be."

"I have got beyond the complimentary stage," said Hugo. "What is the use of telling you that
you are the most beautiful girl I ever met, or the most charming, or anything of that kind?
The only thing I know"--and he lowered his voice almost to a whisper, and spoke with a fierce
intensity that made Kitty shrink away from him--"the only thing I know is that you are the
one woman in the world for me, and that I would sooner see you dead at my feet than married
to another man!"

Kitty had turned pale: how was she to reply? She cast her eyes up and down the road in search
of some suggestion. Oh, joy and relief! she saw a figure in the distance. Perhaps it was somebody
from Strathleckie; they were not far from the lodge now. She spoke with renewed courage, but
she did not know exactly what she said.

"Who is this coming down the road? He is going up to Strathleckie, I believe; he seems to be
pausing at the gates. Oh, I hope it is a visitor. I do like having the house full; and we have
been so melancholy since Percival went on that horrid expedition to Brazil. Who can it be?"

"What does it matter?" said Hugo. "Can you not listen to me for one moment? Kitty--darling--wait!"

"I can't; I really can't!" said Kitty, quickening her pace almost to a run. "Oh, Hugo--Mr.
Luttrell--you must not say such things--besides--look, it's Mr. Vivian; it really is! I haven't
seen him for two years."

And she actually ran away from him, coming face to face with her old friend, at the Strathleckie
gates.

Hugo followed sullenly. He did not like to be repulsed in that way. And he had reasons for
wishing to gain Kitty's consent to a speedy marriage. He wanted to leave the country before
the return of Percival Heron, whose errand to South America he guessed pretty accurately, although
Mr. Colquhoun had thought fit to leave him in the dark about it. Hugo surmised, moreover, that
Dino had told Brian Luttrell the history of Hugo's conduct to him in London: if so, Brian Luttrell
was the last man whom Hugo desired to meet. And if Brian returned to England with Percival,
the story would probably become known to the Herons; and then how could he hope to marry Kitty?
With Brian's return, too, some alteration in Mrs. Luttrell's will might possibly be expected.
The old lady's health had lately shown signs of improvement: if she were to recover sufficiently
to indicate her wishes to her son, Hugo might find himself deprived of all chance of Netherglen.
For these reasons he was disposed to press for a speedy conclusion to the matter.

He came up to the gates, and found Kitty engaged in an animated conversation with Mr. Vivian;
her cheeks were carnation, and her eyes brilliant. She was laughing with rather forced vivacity
as he approached. In his opinion she had seldom appeared to more advantage; while to Rupert's
eyes she seemed to have altered for the worse. Dangerously, insidiously pretty, she was, indeed;
but a vain little thing, no doubt; a finished coquette by the way she talked and lifted her
eyes to Hugo's handsome face; possibly even a trifle fast and vulgar. Not the simple child
of sixteen whom he had last seen in Gower-street.

"Won't you come in, Hugo? I am sure everybody would be pleased to see you," said poor Kitty,
unconscious of being judged, as she tried to propitiate Hugo by a pleading look. She did not
like him to go away with such a cross look upon his face--that was all. But as she did not
say that she would be pleased to see him, Hugo only sulked the more.

"How cross he looks! I am rather glad he is not coming in," said Kitty, confidentially, as
Hugo walked away, and she escorted Rupert up the long and winding drive. "And where did you
come from? I did not know that you were near us."

"I have been staying at Lord Cecil's, thirty miles from Dunmuir. I thought that I should like
to call, as you were still in this neighbourhood. I wrote to Mrs. Heron about it. I hope she
received my note?"

"I see you don't know the family news," said Kitty, with a beaming smile. "I have a new stepsister,
just three weeks old, and Isabel is already far too much occupied with the higher education
of women to attend to such trifles as notes. She generally hands them over to Elizabeth or
papa. Then, you know, papa broke one of his ribs and his collar-bone a fortnight ago, and I
expect that this accident will keep us at Strathleckie for another month or two."

"That accounts for you being here so late in the year."

"Or so early! This is January, not December. But I think we may stay until the spring. It is
not worth while to take a London house now."

Kitty spoke so dolefully that Rupert was obliged to smile. "You are sorry for that?" he said.

"Yes. We are all rather dull; we want something to enliven us. I hope you will enliven us,
Mr. Vivian."

"I am afraid I can hardly hope to do so," said Rupert, coldly. "Of course, you have not the
occupation that you used to have when you were in London."

"When I went to school! No, I should think not," said Kitty, with her giddiest laugh. "I have
locked up my lesson books and thrown away the key. So you must not lecture me on my studies
as you used to do, Mr. Vivian."

"I should not presume to do so," he said, with rather unnecessary stiffness.

"But you used to do it! Have you forgotten?" asked Kitty, peeping up at him archly from under
her long, curling eyelashes. There was a momentary smile upon his lips, but it disappeared
as he answered quietly:--

"What was allowable when you were a child, would justly be resented by you now, Miss Heron."

"I should not resent it; indeed I should not mind," said Kitty, eagerly. "I should like it:
I always like being lectured, and told what I ought to do. I should be glad if you would scold
me again about my reading; I have nobody to tell me anything now."

"I could not possibly take the responsibility," said Rupert. "If you have thrown away the key
of your book-box, Miss Heron, I don't think that you will be anxious to find it again."

"Oh, but the lock could be picked!" cried Kitty, and then repented her words, for Rupert's
impassive face showed no interest beyond that required by politeness. The tears were very near
her eyes, but she got rid of them somehow, and plunged into a neat and frosty style of conversation
which she heartily detested. "This is Strathleckie; you have never seen it before, I think?
It is on the Leckie property, but it is not an old place like Netherglen. I think it was built
in 1840."

"Not a very good style of architecture," said Rupert, scanning it with an attentive eye.

"A good style of architecture, indeed!" commented Kitty to herself, as she ran away to her
own room, after committing Mr. Vivian to the care of her step-mother, who was lying on a sofa
in the drawing-room, quite ready to unfold her views about the higher education of girls. "What
a piece of ice he is! He used not to be so frigid. I wonder if we offended him in any way before
we left London. He has never been nice since then. Nice? He is simply hateful!" and Kitty stamped
on the floor of her bed-room with alarming vehemence, but the crystal drops that had been so
long repressed were trembling on her eyelashes, and giving to her face the grieved look of a child.

Meanwhile Vivian was thinking:--"What a pity she is so spoilt! A coquettish, hare-brained flirt:
that is all that she is now, and she promised to be a sweet little woman two years ago! What
business had she to be out walking with Hugo Luttrell? I should have heard of it if they were
going to be married. I suppose she has had nobody to look after her. And yet Miss Murray always
struck me as a sensible, staid kind of girl. Why can she not keep her cousin in order?" And
then Rupert was conscious of a certain sense of impatience for Kitty's return, much as he disapproved
of her alluring ways.

He was prevailed on to stay the night, and his visit was prolonged day after day, until it
was accepted as a settled thing that he would remain for some time--perhaps even until Percival
came home. It had been calculated that Percival might easily be home in February.

He could not easily maintain the coldness and reserve with which he had begun to treat Kitty
Heron. There was something so winning and so childlike about her at times, that he dropped
unconsciously into the old familiar tone. Then he would try to draw back, and would succeed,
perhaps, in saying something positively rude or unkind, which would bring the tears to her
eyes, and the flush of vexation to her face. At least, if it was not really unkind it sounded
so to Kitty, and that came to the same thing. And when she was vexed, he was illogical enough
to feel uncomfortable.

But Kitty's crowning offence was her behaviour at a dinner-party, on the occasion of the christening
of Mrs. Heron's little girl. Hugo Luttrell and the two young Grants from Dunmuir were amongst
the guests; and with them Kitty amused herself. She did not mean any harm, poor child; she
chattered gaily and looked up into their faces, with a gleeful consciousness that Rupert was
watching her, and that she could show him now that some people admired her if he did not. Archie
Grant certainly admired her prodigiously; he haunted her steps all through the evening, hung
over the piano when she sang a gay little French chanson; turned over a portfolio of Mr. Heron's
sketches with her in a corner. On the other hand, Hugo, who took her in to dinner, whispered
things to her that made her start and blush. Vivian would have liked very much to know what
he said. He did not approve of that darkly handsome face, with the haggard, evil-looking eyes,
being thrust so close to Kitty's soft cheeks and pretty flower-decked head. He was glad to
think that he had prevailed on Angela to leave Netherglen. He was not fond of Hugo Luttrell.

He was stiffer and graver than usual that evening; not even the appearance of the newly-christened
Dorothy Elizabeth, in a very long white robe, won a smile from him. He never approached Kitty--never
said a word to her--until he was obliged to say good-night. And then she looked up to him with
her dancing eyes and pretty smile, and said:--

"You never came near me all the evening, and you had promised to sing a duet with me."

"Is the little coquette trying her wiles on me!" thought Rupert, sternly; but aloud he answered,
with grave indifference,

"You were better employed. You had your own friends."

"And are you not a friend?" cried Kitty, biting her lip.

"I am not your contemporary. I cannot enter into competition with these younger men," he answered,
quietly.

Kitty quitted him in a rage. Elizabeth encountered her as she ran upstairs, her cheeks crimson,
her lips quivering, her eyes filled with tears.

"My dear Kitty, what is the matter?" she said, laying a gently detaining hand on the girl's arm.

"Nothing--nothing at all," declared Kitty; but she suffered herself to be drawn into Elizabeth's
room, and there, sinking into a low seat by the fire, she detailed her wrongs. "He hates me;
I know he does, and I hate him! He thinks me a horrid, frivolous girl; and so I am! But he
needn't tell me that he does not want to be a friend of mine!"

"Well, perhaps, you are rather too old to take him for a friend in the way you used to do,"
said Elizabeth, smiling a little. "You were a child then; and you are eighteen now, you know,
Kitty. He treats you as a woman: that is all. It is a compliment."

"Then I don't like his compliments: I hate them!" Kitty asseverated. "I would rather he let
me alone."

"Don't think about him, dear. If he does not want to be friendly with you, don't try to be
friendly with him."

"I won't," said Kitty, in the tone of one who has taken a solemn resolution. Then she rose,
and surveyed herself critically in Elizabeth's long mirror. "I am sure I looked very nice,"
she said. "This pink dress suits me to perfection and the lace is lovely. And then the silver
ornaments! I'm glad I did not wear anything that he gave me, at any rate. I nearly put on the
necklace he sent me when I was seventeen; I'm glad I did not."

"Dearest Kitty, why should you mind what he thinks?" said Elizabeth, coming to her side, and
looking at the exquisitely-pretty little figure reflected in the glass, a figure to which her
own, draped in black lace, formed a striking contrast. But she was almost sorry that she had
said the words, for Kitty immediately threw herself on her cousin's shoulder and burst into
tears. The fit of crying did not last long, and Kitty was unfeignedly ashamed of it: she dried
her tears with a very useless-looking lace handkerchief, laughed at herself hysterically, and
then ran away to her own room, leaving Elizabeth to wish that the sense and spirit that really
existed underneath that butterfly-like exterior would show itself on the surface a little more
distinctly.

But the last thing she dreamed of was that Kitty, with all her little follies, would outrage
Rupert's sense of the proprieties in the way she did in the course of the following morning.

Rupert was standing alone in the drawing-room, looking out of a window which commanded an extensive
view. Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Heron had come downstairs. Kitty had breakfasted in her own room;
Elizabeth was busy. Mr. Vivian was wondering whether it might not be as well to go back to
London. It vexed him to see little Kitty Heron flirting with half-a-dozen men at once.

A voice at the door caused him to turn round. Kitty was entering, and as her hands were full,
she had some difficulty in turning the handle. Rupert moved forward to assist her, and uttered
a courteous good-morning, but Kitty only looked at him with flushed cheeks and wide-open resentful
eyes, and made no answer.

She was wearing an embroidered apron over her dark morning frock, and this apron, gathered
up by the corners in her hands, was full of various articles which Rupert could not see. He
was thoroughly taken aback, therefore, when she poured its contents in an indiscriminate heap
upon the sofa, and said, in a decided tone:--

"There are all the things you ever gave me; and I would rather not keep them any longer. I
take presents only from my friends."

Foolish Kitty!

CHAPTER XLI.

KITTY'S FRIENDS.

"How have I had the misfortune to offend you?" said Rupert, in a voice from which he could
not banish irony as completely as he would have liked to do.

"You said so yourself," replied Kitty, facing him with the dignity of a small princess. "You
said that you were not my friend now."

"When did I make that statement?" said Rupert, lifting his eyebrows.

"Last night. And I knew it. You are not kind as you used to be. It does not matter to me at
all; only I felt that I did not like to keep these things--and I brought them back."

"And what am I to do with them?" said Rupert, approaching the sofa and looking at the untidy
little heap. He gave a subdued laugh, which offended Kitty dreadfully.

"I don't see anything to laugh at," she said.

"Neither do I." But the smile still trembled on his finely-cut mouth. "What did you mean me
to do with these things?" he asked. "These are trifles: why don't you throw them into the fire
if you don't value them?"

"They are not all trifles; and I did value them before you came to see us this time," said
Kitty, with a lugubriousness which ought to have convinced him of her sincerity. "There are
some bangles, and a cup and saucer, and two books; and there is the chain that you sent me
by Mr. Luttrell in the autumn."

"Ah, that chain," said Vivian, and then he took it up and weighed it lightly in his hand. "I
have never seen you wear it. I thought at first that you had got it on last night: but my eyes
deceived me. My sight is not so good as it used to be. Really, Miss Heron, you make me ashamed
of my trumpery gifts: pray take them away, and let me give you something prettier on your next
birthday for old acquaintance sake."

"No, indeed!" said Kitty.

"And why not? Because I don't treat you precisely as I did when you were twelve? You really
would not like it if I did. No, I shall be seriously offended if you do not take these things
away and say no more about them. It would be perfectly impossible for me to take them back;
and I think you will see--afterwards--that you should not have asked me to do so."

The accents of that calmly inflexible voice were terrible to Kitty. He turned to the window
and looked out, but, becoming impatient of the silence, walked back to her again, and saw that
her face had grown white, and was quivering as if she had received a blow. Her eyes were fixed
upon the sofa, and her fingers held the chain which he had quietly placed within them; but
it was evident that she was doing battle with herself to prevent the tears from falling. Rupert
felt some remorse: and then hardened himself by a remembrance of the glances that had been
exchanged between her and Hugo in that very room the night before.

"I am old enough to be your father, you know," he began, gravely. This statement was not quite
true, but it was true enough for conversational purposes. "I have sent you presents on your
birthday since you were a very little girl, and I hope I may always do so. There is no need
for you to reject them, because I think it well to remember that you are not a child any longer,
but a young lady who has 'come out,' and wears long frocks, and does her hair very elaborately,"
he said, casting a smiling glance at Kitty's carefully-frizzled head. "I certainly do not wish
to cease to be friends with--all of you; and I hope you will not drive me away from a house
where I have been accustomed to forget the cares of the world a little, and find pleasant companionship
and relaxation."

"Oh, Mr. Vivian!" said Kitty, in a loud whisper. The suggestion that she had power to drive
him away seemed almost impious. She felt completely crushed.

"Don't think any more about it," said Rupert, kindly, if condescendingly. "I never wished to
be less of a friend to you than I was when you lived in Gower-street; but you must remember
that you are a great deal altered from the little girl that I used to know."

Kitty could not speak; she stooped and began to gather the presents again into her apron. Vivian
came and helped her. He could not forbear giving her hand a little kindly pat when he had finished,
as if he had been dealing with a child. But the playful caress, if such it might be called,
had no effect on Kitty's sore and angry feelings. She was terribly ashamed of herself now:
she could hardly bear to remember his calmly superior tone, his words of advice, which seemed
to place her on a so much lower footing than himself.

But in a day or two this feeling wore off. He was so kindly and friendly in manner, that she
was emboldened to laugh at the recollection of the tone in which he had alluded to her elaborately-dressed
hair and long dresses, and to devise a way of surprising him. She came down one day to afternoon
tea in an old school-girlish dress of blue serge, rather short about the ankles, a red and
white pinafore, and a crimson sash. Her hair was loose about her neck, and had been combed
over her forehead in the fashion in which she wore it in her childish days. Thus attired, she
looked about fourteen years old, and the shy way in which she glanced at the company from under
her eyelashes, added to the impression of extreme youth. To carry out the character, she held
a battledore and shuttlecock in her hand.

"Kitty, are you rehearsing for a fancy ball?" said Mrs. Heron.

"No, Isabel. I only thought I would try to transform myself into a little girl again, and see
what it felt like. Do I look very young indeed?"

"You look about twelve. You absurd child!"

"Is the battledore for effect, or are you going to play a game with it?" asked Rupert, who
had been surveying her with cold criticism in his eyes.

"For effect, of course. Don't you think it is a very successful attempt?" she said, looking
up at him saucily.

He made no answer. Elizabeth wanted the tea-kettle at that moment, and he moved to fetch it.
Hugo Luttrell, however, who was paying a call at the house, was ready enough with a reply.

"It could not be more successful," he said, looking at her admiringly. "I suppose"--in a lowered
tone--"that you looked like this in the school-room. I am glad those days are over, at any rate."

"I am not," said Kitty, helping herself to bread and butter. "I should like them all over again--lessons
and all." She stole a glance at Rupert, but his still face betrayed no consciousness of her
remark. "I am going to keep up my character. I am going to play at battledore and shuttlecock
with the boys in the dining-room. Who will come, too? Qui m'aime me suit."

"Then I will be the first to follow," said Hugo, in her ear.

She pouted and drank her tea, glancing half-reluctantly toward Rupert. But he would not heed.

"I will come, too," said Elizabeth, relieving the awkwardness of a rather long pause. "I always
like to see you play. Kitty is as light as a bird," she added to Mr. Vivian, who bowed and
looked profoundly uninterested.

Nevertheless, in a few minutes he found the drawing-room so dull without the young people,
that he, too, descended to see what was going on. He heard the sound of counting in breathless
voices as he drew near the drawing-room. "Ninety-eight, ninety-nine, three hundred. One, two,
three----"

"Kitty and Mr. Luttrell have kept up to three hundred and three, Mr. Vivian!" cried one of
the boys as he entered the room.

Mr. Vivian joined the spectators. It was a pretty sight. Kitty, with her floating locks, flushed
face, trim, light figure, and unerring accuracy of eye, was well measured against Hugo's lithe
grace and dexterity. The two went on until eight hundred and twenty had been reached; then
the shuttlecock fell to the ground. Kitty had glanced aside and missed her aim.

"You must try, now, Mr. Vivian," she said, advancing towards him, battledore in hand, and smiling
triumphantly in his face.

"No, thank you," said Rupert, who had been shading his eyes with one hand, as if the light
of the lamps had tried them: "I could not see."

"Could you not? Oh, you are short-sighted, perhaps. Ah! there go Hugo and Johnny. This is better
than being grown-up, I think. Am I like the little girl that you used to know in Gower-street
now, Mr. Vivian?"

It was perhaps her naming Hugo so familiarly that caused Rupert to reply, with a smile that
was more cutting than reproof would have been:--

"I prefer the little girl in Gower-street still."

From the colour that instantly overspread her face and neck, he saw that she was hurt or offended--he
did not know which. She left his side immediately, and plunged into the game with renewed ardour.
She played until Hugo left the house about seven o'clock; and then she rushed up to her room
and bolted herself in with unnecessary violence. She came down to dinner in a costume as different
as possible from the one which she had worn in the afternoon. Her dress was of some shining
white stuff, very long, very much trimmed, cut very low at the neck; her hair was once more
touzled, curled and pinned, in its most elaborate fashion; and her gold necklet and bracelets
were only fit for a dinner-party. It is to be feared that Rupert Vivian did not admire her
taste in dress. If she had worn white cotton it would had pleased him better.

There was a wall between them once more. She was more conscious of it than he was, but he did
not perceive that something was wrong. He saw that she would not look at him, would not speak
to him; he supposed that he had offended her. He himself was aware of an increasing feeling
of dissatisfaction--whether with her, or with her circumstances, he could not define--and this
feeling found expression in a sentence which he addressed to her two days after the game of
battledore and shuttlecock. Hugo had been to the house again, and had been even less guarded
than usual in his love-making. Kitty meant to put a stop to it sooner or later; but she did
not quite know how to do it (not having had much experience in these matters, in spite of the
coquettishness which Rupert attributed to her), and also she did not want to do it just at
present, because of her instinctive knowledge of the fact that it annoyed Mr. Vivian. She was
too much of a child to know that she was playing with edged tools.

So she allowed Hugo a very long hand-clasp when he said good-bye, and held a whispered consultation
with him at the door in a confidential manner, which put Rupert very much out of temper. Then
she came back to the drawing-room fire, laughing a little, with an air of pretty triumph. Rupert
was leaning against the mantelpiece; no one else was in the room. Kitty knelt down on the rug,
and warmed her hands at the fire.

"We have such a delightful secret, Hugo and I," she said, brightly. "You would never guess
what it was. Shall I tell it to you?"

"No," he answered, shortly.

"No?" She lifted her eyebrows in astonishment, and then shrugged her shoulders. "You are not
very polite to me, Mr. Vivian!" she said, half-playfully, half-pettishly.

"I do not wish to share any secret that you and Mr. Hugo Luttrell may have between you," said
Rupert, with emphasis.

Kitty's face changed a little. "Don't you like him?" she said, in a rather timid voice.

"Before I answer I should like to know whether you are engaged to marry him," said Mr. Vivian.

"Certainly not. I never dreamt of such a thing. You ought not to ask such a question," said
Kitty, turning scarlet.

"I suppose I ought not. I beg your pardon. But I thought it was the case."

"Why should you think so?" said Kitty, turning her face away from him. "You would have heard
about it, you know--and besides--nobody ever thought of such a thing."

"Excuse me: Mr. Luttrell seems to have thought of it," said Rupert, with rather an angry laugh.

"What Mr. Luttrell thinks of is no business of yours," said Kitty.

"You cannot deny it then!" exclaimed Vivian, with a mixture of bitterness and sarcastic triumph
in his tone.

She made no answer. He could not see her face, but the way in which she was twisting her fingers
together spoke of some agitation. He tried to master himself; but he was under the empire of
an emotion of which he himself had not exactly grasped the meaning nor estimated the power.
He walked to the window and back again somewhat uncertainly; then paused at about two yards'
distance from her kneeling figure, and addressed her in a voice which he kept carefully free
from any trace of excitement.

"I have no right to speak, I know," he said, "and, if I were not so much older than yourself,
or if I had not promised to be your friend, Kitty, I would keep silence. I want you to be on
your guard with that man. He is not the sort of man that you ought to encourage, or whom you
would find any happiness in loving."

"I thought it was not considered generous for one man to blacken another's character behind
his back," said Kitty, quickly.

"Well, you are right, it is not. If I had put myself into rivalry with Hugo Luttrell, of course,
I should have to hold my tongue. But as I am only an outsider--an old friend who takes a kindly
interest in the child that he has seen grow up--I think I am justified in saying, Kitty, that
I do not consider young Luttrell worthy of you."

The calm, unimpassioned tones produced their usual effect on poor Kitty. She felt thoroughly
crushed. And yet there was a rising anger in her heart. What reason had Rupert Vivian to hold
himself so far aloof from her? Was he not Percival's friend? Why should he look down from such
heights of superiority upon Percival's sister?

"I speak to you in this way," Rupert went on, with studied quietness, "because you have less
of the guardianship usually given to girls of your age than most girls have. Mrs. Heron is,
I know, exceedingly kind and amiable, but she has her own little ones to think of, and then
she, too, is young. Miss Murray, although sensible and right-thinking in every way, is too
near your own age to be a guide for you. Percival is away. Therefore, you must let me take
an elder brother's place to you for once, and warn you when I see that you are in danger."

Kitty had risen from her knees, and was now standing, with her face still averted, and her
lips hidden by a feather fan which she had taken from the mantelpiece. There was a sharper
ring in her voice as she replied.

"You seem to think I need warning. You seem to think I cannot take care of myself. You have
reminded me once or twice lately that I was a woman now and not a child. Pray, allow me the
woman's privilege of choosing for myself."

"I am sorry to have displeased you," said Vivian, gravely. "Am I to understand that my warning
comes too late?"

There was a moment's pause before she answered coldly:--

"Quite too late."

"Your choice has fallen upon Hugo Luttrell?"

Kitty was stripping the feathers ruthlessly from her fan. She answered with an agitated little
laugh:

"That is not a fair question. You had better ask him."

"I think I do not need," said Rupert. Then, in a low and rather ironical tone, he added, "Pray
accept my congratulations." She bowed her head with a scornful smile, and let him leave the
room without another word. What was the use of speaking? The severance was complete between
them now.

They had quarrelled before, but Kitty felt, bitterly enough, that now they were not quarrelling.
She had built up a barrier between them which he was the last man to tear down. He would simply
turn his back upon her now and go his own way. And she did not know how to call him back. She
felt vaguely that her innocent little wiles were lost upon him. She might put on her prettiest
dresses, and sing her sweetest songs, but they would never cause him to linger a moment longer
by her side than was absolutely necessary. He had given her up.

She felt, too, with a great swelling of heart, that her roused pride had made her imply what
was not true. He would always think that she was engaged to Hugo Luttrell. She had, at least,
made him understand that she was prepared to accept Hugo when he proposed to her. And all the
world knew that Hugo meant to propose--Kitty herself knew it best of all.

The day came on which Rupert was to return to London. Scarcely a word had been interchanged
between him and Kitty since the conversation which has been recorded. She thought, as she stole
furtive glances towards him from time to time, that he looked harassed, and even depressed,
but in manner he was more cheerful than it was his custom to be. When the time came for saying
good-bye, he held out his hand to her with a kindly smile.

"Come, Kitty," he said, "let us be friends."

Her heart gave a wild leap which seemed almost to suffocate her; she looked up into his face
with changing colour and eager eyes.

"I am sorry," she began, with a little gasp. "I did not mean all I said the other day, and
I wanted to tell you----"

To herself it seemed as if these words were a tremendous self-betrayal; to Vivian they were
less than nothing--commonplace sentences enough; uttered in a frightened, childish tone.

"Did you not mean it all?" he said, giving her hand a friendly pressure. "Well, never mind;
neither did I. We are quits, are we not? I will not obtrude my advice upon you again, and you
must forgive me for having already done so. Good-bye, my dear child; I trust you will be happy."

"I shall never be happy," said Kitty, withdrawing her hand from his, "never, never, never!"
And then she burst into tears and rushed out of the room.

Vivian looked after her with a slightly puzzled expression, but did not attempt to call her back.

It was not a very favourable day for Hugo's suit, and he was received that afternoon in anything
but a sunshiny mood by Miss Heron. For almost the first time she snubbed him unmercifully,
but he had been treated with so much graciousness on all previous occasions that the snubs
did not produce very much impression upon him. And, finding himself alone with her for a few
minutes, he was rash enough to make the venture upon which he had set his heart, without considering
whether he had chosen the best moment for the experiment or not. Accordingly, he failed. A
few brief words passed between them, but the few were sufficient to convince Hugo Luttrell
that he had never won Kitty Heron's heart. To his infinite surprise and mortification, she
refused his offer of marriage most decidedly.

CHAPTER XLII.

A FALSE ALARM.

Angela's departure from Netherglen had already taken place. Hugo was not sorry that she was
gone. Her gentle words and ways were a restraint upon him: he felt obliged to command himself
in her presence. And self-command was becoming more and more a difficult task. What he wanted
to say or to do presented itself to him with overmastering force: it seemed foolishly weak
to give up, for the sake of a mere scruple of conscience, any design on which he had set his
heart. And above all things in life he desired just now to win Kitty Heron for himself.

"She has deceived me," he thought, as he sat alone on the evening of the day on which she had
refused to marry him. "She made me believe that she cared for me, the little witch, and then
she deliberately threw me over. I suppose she wants to marry Vivian. I'll stop that scheme.
I'll tell her something about Vivian which she does not know."

The fire before which he was sitting burnt up brightly, and threw a red glow on the dark panelling
of the room, on the brocaded velvet of the old chair against which he leaned his handsome head,
on the pale, but finely-chiselled, features of his face. The look of subtlety, of mingled passion
and cruelty, was becoming engraved upon that face: in moments of repose its expression was
evil and sinister--an expression which told its own tale of his life and thoughts. Once, in
London, when he had incautiously given himself up in a public place to rejection upon his plans,
an artist said to a friend as they passed him by: "That young fellow has got the very look
I want for the fallen angel in my picture. There's a sort of malevolent beauty about his face
which one doesn't often meet." Hugo heard the remark, and smoothed his brow, inwardly determining
to control his facial muscles better. He did not wish to give people a bad impression of him.
To look like a fallen angel was the last thing he desired. In society, therefore, he took pains
to appear gentle and agreeable; but the hours of his solitude were stamping his face with ineradicable
traces of the vicious habits, the thoughts of crime, the attempts to do evil, in which his
life was passed.

The ominous look was strongly marked on his face as he sat by the fire that evening. It was
not the firelight only that gave a strange glow to his dark eyes--they were unnaturally luminous,
as the eyes of madmen sometimes are, and full of a painful restlessness. The old, dreamy, sensuous
languor was seldom seen in their shadowy depths.

"I will win her in spite of herself," he went on, muttering the words half-aloud: "I will make
her love me whether she will or no. She may fight and she may struggle, but she shall be mine
after all. And before very long. Before the month is out, shall I say? Before Brian and her
brother come home at any rate. They are expected in February. Yes--before February. Then, Kitty,
you will be my wife."

He smiled as he said the words, but the smile was not a pleasant one.

He did not sleep much that night. He had lately grown very wakeful, and on this night he did
not go to bed at all. The servants heard him wandering about the house in the early hours of
the morning, opening and shutting doors, pacing the long passages, stealing up and downstairs.
One of the maids put her head out of her door, and reported that the house was all lit up as
if for a dance--rooms and corridors were illuminated. It was one of Hugo's whims that he could
not bear the dark. When he walked the house in this way he always lighted every lamp and candle
that he could find. He fancied that strange faces looked at him in the dark.

Confusion and distress reigned next day at Netherglen. Mr. Luttrell had taken upon himself
to dismiss one or two of the servants, and this was resented as a liberty by the housekeeper,
who had lived there long before he had made his appearance in Scotland at all. He had paid
two of the maids a month's wages in advance, and told them to leave the house within four-and-twenty
hours. The household had already been considerably reduced, and the indignant housekeeper immediately
announced her intention of going to Mr. Colquhoun and inquiring whether young Mr. Luttrell
had been legally empowered to manage his aunt's affairs. And seeing that this really was her
intention, Hugo smiled and spoke her fair.

"You're a little hard on me, Mrs. Shairp," he said, in dulcet tones. "I was going to speak
to you privately about these arrangements. You, of course, ought never to go away from Netherglen,
and, whoever goes, you shall not. You must be here to welcome Mr. Brian when he comes home
again, and to give my wife a greeting when I bring her to Netherglen--which I hope I shall
do very shortly."

"An' wha's the leddy, Maister Hugo?" said the housekeeper, a little mollified by his words.
"It'll be Miss Murray, maybe? The mistress liked the glint of her bonny een. 'Jean,' she said
to me; the day Miss Murray cam' to pay her respects, 'Jean, yon lassie steps like a princess.'
Ye'll be nae sae far wrang, Maister Hugo, if it's Miss Murray that ye mak' your bride."

"It is not Miss Murray," said Hugo, carelessly; "it is her cousin, Miss Heron."

Mrs. Shairp's eyebrows expressed astonishment and contempt, although her lips murmured only--"That
wee bit lassie!" But she made no further objection to the plan which Hugo now suggested to
her. He wanted her not to leave Mrs. Luttrell's service (or so he said), but to take a few
weeks' holiday. She had a sister in Aberdeen--could she not pay this sister a visit? Mrs. Luttrell
should have every care during the housekeeper's absence--two trained nurses were with her night
and day; and a Miss Corcoran, a cousin of the Luttrell family, was shortly expected. Mr. Colquhoun
had spoken to him about the necessity of economy, and for that reason he wished to reduce the
number of servants as much as possible. He was going away to London, and there would be no
need of more than one servant in the house. In fact, the gardener and his wife could do all
that would be required.

"Me leave my mistress to the care o' John Robertson and his wife!" ejaculated the housekeeper,
indignantly.

Whereupon Hugo had to convince her that Mrs. Luttrell was perfectly safe in the hands of the
two nurses--at any rate for a week. During that week, one or two necessary alterations could
be made in the house--there was a water-pipe and a drain that needed attention, in Hugo's opinion--and
this could be done while the house was comparatively empty--"before Brian came home." With
this formula he never failed to calm Mrs. Shairp's wrath and allay her rising fears.

For she had fears. She did not know why Mr. Hugo seemed to want her out of the way. She fancied
that he had secret plans which he could not carry out if the house were full of servants. She
tried every possible pretext for staying at home, but she felt herself worsted at all points
when it came to matters of argument. She did not like to appeal to Mr. Colquhoun. For she knew,
as well as everybody in the county knew, that Mrs. Luttrell had made Hugo the heir to all she
had to leave; and that before very long he would probably be the master of Netherglen. As a
matter of fact, he was even now virtually the master, and she had gone beyond her duty, she
thought, in trying to argue with him. She did not know what to do, and so she succumbed to
his more persistent will. After all, she had no reason to fear that anything would go wrong.
She said that she would go for a week or ten days, but not for a longer time. "Well, well,"
said Hugo, in a soothing tone, as if he were making a concession, "come back in a week, if
you like, my good Mrs. Shairp. You will find the house very uncomfortable--that is all. I am
going to turn painters and decorators loose in the upper rooms; the servants' quarters are
in a most dilapidated condition."

"If the penters are coming in, it's just the time that I sud be here, sir," said Mrs. Shairp,
firmly, but respectfully. And Hugo smiled an assent.

As a matter of fact he had got all he wanted. He wanted Mrs. Shairp out of the house for a
week or ten days. For that space of time he wished to have Netherglen to himself. She announced,
after some hesitation, that she would leave for Aberdeen on the twenty-eighth, and that she
should stay a week, or at the most, a day or two longer. "She's safe for a fortnight," said
Hugo to himself with a triumphant smile. He had other preparations to make, and he set to work
to make them steadily.

It was a remark made by Kitty herself at their last interview that had suggested to his mind
the whole mad scheme to which he was devoting his mental powers. It all hinged upon the fact
that Kitty was going to spend a week with some friends in Edinburgh--friends whom Hugo knew
only by name. She went to them on the twenty-seventh. Mrs. Shairp left Netherglen the twenty-eighth.
Two hours after Mrs. Shairp had started on her journey the two remaining servants were dismissed.
The plumber, who had been severely inspected and cautioned as to his behaviour that morning
by Mrs. Shairp, was sent about his business. One of the nurses was also discharged. The only
persons left in the house beside Mrs. Luttrell, the solitary nurse, and Hugo himself, were
two; a young kitchen-maid, generally supposed to be somewhat deficient in intellect, and a
man named Stevens, whom Hugo had employed at various times in various capacities, and characterised
(with rather an odd smile) as "a very useful fellow." The nurse who remained, protested vigorously
against this state of affairs, but was assured by Hugo in the politest manner, that it would
last only for a day or two, that he regretted it as much as she did, that he would telegraph
to Edinburgh for another nurse immediately. What could the poor woman do? She was obliged to
submit to circumstances. She could no more withstand Hugo's smiling, than she liked to refuse--in
despite of all rules--the handsome gratuity that he slid into her hand.

Meanwhile, Kitty was trying to forget her past sorrows in the society of some newly-made friends
in Edinburgh. Here, if anywhere, she might forget that Rupert Vivian had despised her, and
that Hugo Luttrell accused her of being a heartless coquette. She was not heartless--or, at
least, not more so than girls of eighteen usually are--but, perhaps, she was a little bit of
a coquette. Of course, she had acted foolishly with respect to Vivian and Hugo Luttrell. But
her foolishness brought its own punishment.

It was on the second day of her visit that a telegram was brought to her. She tore it open
in some surprise, exclaiming:--

"They must have had news of Percival!"

Then she read the message and turned pale.

"What is it?" said one of her friends, coming to her side.

Kitty held out the paper for her to read.

"Elizabeth Murray, Queen's Hotel, Muirside, to Miss Heron, Merchiston Terrace, Edinburgh. Your
father has met with a serious accident, and is not able to move from Muirside. He wishes you
to come by the next train, which leaves Edinburgh at four-thirty. You shall be met at the Muirside
Station either by Hugo or myself."

"There is time for me to catch the train, is there not?" said Kitty, jumping up, with her eyes
full of tears.

"Oh, yes, dear, yes, plenty of time. But who is to go with you?" said Mrs. Baxter, rather nervously.
"I am so sorry John is not at home; but there is scarcely time to let him know."

"I can go perfectly well by myself," said Kitty. "You must put me into the train at the station,
Mrs. Baxter, under the care of the guard, if you like, and I shall be met at Muirside."

"Where is Muirside?" asked Jessie Baxter, a girl of Kitty's age.

"Five miles from Dunmuir. I suppose papa was sketching or something. Oh! I hope it is not a
very bad accident!" said Kitty, turning great, tearful eyes first on Mrs. Baxter, and then
on the girls. "What shall we do! I must go and get ready instantly."

They followed her to her room, and anxiously assisted in the preparations for her journey,
but even then Mrs. Baxter could not refrain from inquiring:--

"Who is the person who is to meet you? 'Hugo'--do you know him?"

"Oh, yes, he is Elizabeth's cousin, and Elizabeth is my cousin. We are connections you see.
I know him very well," said Kitty, with a blush, which Mrs. Baxter remembered afterwards.

"I would go with you myself," she said, "if it were not for the cold, but I am afraid I should
be laid up with bronchitis if I went."

"Let Janet go, mamma," cried one of the girls.

"I don't want Janet, indeed, I don't want her," said Kitty, earnestly. "I am much obliged to
you, Mrs. Baxter, but, indeed, I can manage quite well by myself. It is quite a short journey,
only two-hours-and-a-half; and it would be a pity to take her, especially as she could not
get back to-night."

She carried her point, and was allowed to depart without an attendant. Mrs. Baxter went with
her to the station, and put her under the care of the guard who promised to look after her.

"You will write to us, Kitty, and tell us how Mr. Heron is," said Mrs. Baxter, before the train
moved off.

"Yes, I will telegraph," said Kitty, "as soon as I reach Muirside."

"Do, dear. I hope you will find him better. Take care of yourself," and then the train moved
out of the station, and Mrs. Baxter went home.

Kitty's journey was a perfectly uneventful one, and would have been comfortable enough but
for the circumstances under which she made it. The telegram lay upon her lap, and she read
it over and over again with increasing alarm as she noticed its careful vagueness, which seemed
to her the worst sign of all. She was heartily relieved when she found that she was nearing
Muirside: the journey had never seemed so long to her before. It was, indeed, longer than usual,
for the railway line was in some places partly blocked with snow, and eight o'clock was past
before Kitty reached Muirside. She looked anxiously out of the window, and saw Hugo Luttrell
on the platform before the train had stopped. He sprang up to the step, and looked at her for
a moment without speaking. Kitty had time to think that the expression of his face was odd
before he replied to her eager questions about her father.

"Yes, he is a little better; he wants to see you," said Hugo at last.

"But how has he hurt himself? Is he seriously ill? Oh, Hugo, do tell me everything. Anything
is better than suspense."

"There is no need for such great anxiety; he is a great deal better, quite out of danger,"
Hugo answered, with a rather strange smile. "I will tell you more as we go up to the house.
Don't be afraid."

And then the guard came up to assure himself of the young lady's safety, and to receive his
tip. Hugo made it a large one. Kitty's luggage was already in the hands of a man whom she thought
she recognised: she had seen him once or twice with Hugo, and once when she paid a state-call
at Netherglen. Just as she was leaving the station, a thought occurred to her, and she turned back.

"I said I would telegraph to Mrs. Baxter as soon as I reached Muirside. Is it too late?"

"The office is shut, I think."

"I am so sorry! She will be anxious."

"Not if you telegraph first thing in the morning," said Hugo, soothingly. "Or--stay: I'll tell
you what you can do. Come with me here, into the waiting-room--now you can write your message
on a leaf of my pocket-book, and we will leave it with the station-master, to be sent off as
soon as possible."

"What shall I say?" said Kitty, sitting down at the painted deal table, which was sparsely
adorned with a water-bottle and a tract, and chafing her little cold hands. "Do write it for
me, Hugo, please. My fingers are quite numb."

"Poor little fingers! You will be warmer soon," said Hugo, with more of his usual manner. "I
will write in your name then. 'Arrived safely and found my father much better, but will write
in a day or two and give particulars.' That does not tie you down, you see. You may be too
busy to write to-morrow."

"Thank you. It will do very nicely."

She was left for a few minutes, whilst he went to the station-master with the message, and
she took the opportunity of looking at herself in the glass above the mantelpiece, partly in
order to see whether her bonnet was straight, partly in order to escape the stare of the waiting-room
woman, who seemed to take a great deal of interest in her movements. Kitty was rather vexed
when Hugo returned, to hear him say, in a very distinct tone:--

"Come, dearest. We shall be late if we don't set off at once."

"Hugo!" she ejaculated, as she met him at the door.

"What is it, dear? What is wrong?"

