TATTINE

by Ruth Ogden

[Mrs. Charles W. Ide]

CHAPTER I. TROUBLE NO. 1

Whether you happen to be four or five, or six, or seven, or even older than that, no doubt
you know by this time that a great many things need to be learned in this world, everything,
in fact, and never more things than at seven. At least, so thought little Tattine, and what
troubled her the most was that some of the things seemed quite wrong, and yet no one was able
to right them. All her little life Tattine's Mother had been setting things straight for her,
drying every tear, and unravelling every tangle, so that Tattine was pretty downhearted the
day she discovered that there were some things that were quite beyond even her Mother's power
to alter. It was on a lovely June morning that Tattine made the first of her unwelcome discoveries.
She was feeling particularly happy too, until she made it. She was sitting up in an apple-tree,
sketching, and doing it very well. She had taken only a few drawing-lessons but had taken to
them immensely, and now with one limb of the tree for a seat and another one for an easel,
she was working away at a pretty chime tower, that stood on a neighbor's land.

Down on the grass beneath her Betsy and Doctor were lying. Betsy was a dear, homely red-and-white
Laverack setter, and Doctor, black-and-white and better looking, was her son. Did not you think so?

...

Fermín nodded and smiled, as if guessing what was going to tell Don
Ramon.

He knew by heart periods prospects oratorios of the house, valued by Don Paul as the most glorious
specimens of profane literature.

Whenever the occasion was, the old employee's repeated in declamatory tone, intoxicated with the
savoring of his own work.

- Wine, Fermin, is the universal drink
par excellence, the healthiest of all that man used for nutrition
or pleasure. Is the drink that earned the honors of intoxication a
god of paganism. Drink is sung by Greek and Roman poets, the celebrated
by painters, praised by doctors. Finally he stretched himself, got on his feet, cocked up his
ears, and came and stood in front of Betsy, and although not a sound was heard, he said, so
that Betsy perfectly understood him, "I can't stand this any longer. If you have any love for
me do please come for a run."

Then Betsy took one long stretch and with motherly self-sacrifice reluctantly got up, prepared
to humor this lively boy of hers. Suddenly Doctor craned his head high in the air, and gave
a little sniff, and then Betsy craned her head and sniffed. Then they stole as stealthily away
as though stepping upon eggs, and Tattine never knew that they had gone. It was no stealthy
treading very long, however. No sooner had they crossed the roadway than they made sure of
the scent they thought they had discovered, and made one wild rush down through the sumach
and sweet-fern to the ravine. In a few moments it was one wild rush up again right to the foot
of Tattine's apple-tree, and Tattine looked down to see Doctor--oh, could she believe her two
blue eyes!--with a dear little rabbit clinched firmly between his teeth, and his mother (think
of it, his mother!) actually standing proudly by and wildly waving her tail from side to side,
in the most delighted manner possible. As for Tattine, she simply gave one horrified little
scream and was down from the tree in a flash, while the scream fortunately brought Maggie hurrying
from the house, and as Maggie was Doctor's confidential friend (owing to certain choice little
morsels, dispensed from the butler's pantry window with great regularity three times a day),
he at once, at her command, relaxed his hold on the little jack-rabbit. The poor little thing
was still breathing, breathing indeed with all his might and main, so that his heart thumped
against his little brown sides with all the regularity of a Rider Engine. Tattine's first thought
was for the rabbit, and she held it close to her, stroking it with one little brown trembling
hand and saying, "There! there! Hush, you little dear; you're safe now, don't be frightened!
Tattine wouldn't hurt you for the world." Her next thought was for Doctor, and she turned on
him with a torrent of abuse, that ought to have made the hair of that young M.D. stand on end.
"Oh, you cruel, CRUEL dog! whatever made you do such a thing as this? I never dreamt it of
you, never." At this Betsy's tail dropped between her legs, for she was a coward at heart,
but Doctor held his ground, his tail standing on end, as his hair should have done, and his
eyes all the while fairly devouring the little rabbit. "And the worst of it," continued Tattine,
"is that no matter how sorry you may feel" (Betsy was the only one who showed any signs of
sorrow, and she was more scared than sorry), "no matter how sorry you may feel, that will not
mend things. You do not know where this baby lived, and who are its father and mother, and
like as not it is too young to live at all away from them and will die," and Tattine raised
one plump little hand and gave Doctor a slap that at least made him "turn tail," and slink
rather doggedly away to his own particular hole under the laundry steps. And now it was time
to find Mamma--high time, for it seemed to Tattine she would choke with all the feelings, sorrowful
and angry, welling up within her. Mamma was not far afield--that is, she was very near, at
her desk in the cosy little alcove of the upstairs hall-way, and Tattine soon found her.

"Now, Mamma," she asked excitedly, "did you know that Betsy or Doctor would do such a thing
as this?"

The trembling little rabbit in Tattine's hands showed what was meant by THIS.

Mrs. Gerald paused a moment, then she said reluctantly, "Yes, Tattine, I did."

"Have they done it before, Mamma?"

"I am sorry to say they have."

"Have you seen them bring struggling rabbits dangling in their mouths right up to the house
here, Mamma?"

Mrs. Gerald merely shook her head. She felt so sorry to have to own to such a sight.

"Why did I never know it, Mamma?"

"You have never chanced to be on the spot, dear, when it happened, and I was in no hurry to
tell you anything that I knew would make you sad."

"I think it would have been better to tell me. It's awful to find such a thing out suddenly
about dogs you've trusted, and to think how good and gentle they look when they come and put
their heads in your lap to be petted, just as though they would not hurt a fly; but then, of
course, anyone who has eyes knows that they do lure flies, snapping at them all day long, and
just for the fun of it too, not because they need them for food, as birds do. Mamma, I don't
believe there's anything meaner than a Laverack setter. Still, Tadjie would never have done
such a thing, I know." Mrs. Gerald was silent, and Tattine, expecting her to confirm what she
had said, grew a little suspicious. "Would Tadjie, Mamma?" with a directness that would not
admit of indirectness.

"Yes, Tattine; Tadjie would. She was trained to hunt before ever she was given to Papa, and
so were her ancestors before her. That is why Doctor and Betsy, who have never been trained
to hunt, go wild over the rabbits. They have inherited the taste."

"Trained to hunt," said Tattine thoughtfully. "Do you mean that men just went to work to teach
them to be so cruel?"

"Well, I suppose in a way setters are natural hunters, Tattine, but then their training has
doubtless a great deal to do with it, but I want to tell you something that I think will give
you just a grain of comfort. I read the other day that Sir John Franklin, the great Arctic
explorer, who almost lost his life in being attacked by some huge animal--it must have been
a bear, I think--says that the animal when he first gets you in his teeth gives you such a
shake that it paralyzes your nerves--this is, it benumbs all your feelings, so, that, strange
as it may seem, you really do not suffer. So let us hope that it was that way with this little
rabbit."

"But there's a little blood here on one side, Mamma."

"That doesn't always prove suffering, either, Tattine. Soldiers are sometimes wounded without
ever knowing it until they see a little sign of blood somewhere."

Tattine listened attentively to all this, and was in a measure comforted. It seemed that Mamma
was still able to better things, even though not able to set everything perfectly right. "Now,"
Tattine said,--with a little sigh of relief, "I think I will try and see what I can do for
Bunny. Perhaps he would first like a drink," so downstairs she went, and putting some milk
in a shallow tea-cup, she dipped Bunny's nose in it, and it seemed to her as though he did
take a little of it. Then she trudged up to the garret for a box, and, putting a layer of cotton-batting
in the bottom, laid Bunny in one corner. Then she went to the garden and pulled a leaf or two
of the youngest, greenest lettuce, and put it right within reach of Bunny's nose, and a little
saucer of water beside it. Then she went down to tell the gardener's little boy all about the
sorrowful thing that had happened.

The next morning Bunny was still breathing, but the lettuce was un-nibbled; he had not moved
an inch, and he was trembling like a leaf. "Mamma," she called upstairs, "I think I'll put
BUN in the sun" (she was trying not to be too down-hearted); "he seems to be a little chilly."
Then she sat herself down in the sun to watch him. Soon Bunny ceased to tremble. "Patrick,"
she called to the old man who was using the lawn mower, "is this little rabbit dead?"

"Yes, miss, shure," taking the little thing gently in his hand.

"Very well," she answered quietly. Tattine used those two little words very often; they meant
that she accepted the situation, if you happen to know what that means. "Now I think I will
not trouble Mamma about it," she said to herself thoughtfully, so she went to the closet under
the stairs, got a little empty box she knew was there, and, taking it out of doors, she put
the little rabbit in it, and then trudged down to the tool-house for her spade and rake.

"Bunny is dead, Joey," she called to the gardener's little boy as she came back. "Come help
me bury him," and so Joey trotted behind her to the spot already selected. "We must make this
hole good and deep," she explained (Joey stood looking on in wide-eyed wonder), "for if Doctor
and Betsy would kill a little live rabbit, there is no telling but they would dig up a dead
one." Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took
them what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you Mariquita? ...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao that I had. Do not sit for me not a crumb
of affection and love pretending not to lie ... As if one could want
off suddenly, like a light!

...

Rafael remembered the end of his last interview. Tired of begging, clinging to mourn the gate, like
a child kneeling, the desperation she had burst into threats. Fermín forgive him! but at that
moment he was capable of murder.

The girl, tired of his pleas, afraid of their curses, finally slamming the window. Y until
now!

Twice a day had gone Marchamalo with the excuse to see Mr. Fermín,
but Mary Light hiding, just guessed his horse galloping down the road.

Montenegro hear him thinking.

- Will you have another boyfriend? - Said .-- Did he love someone?

- No, it does not - Rafael was quick to respond as if it's any consolation conviction .-- The
same thought at first and I was already busted in Jerez and then in prison. When I remove my
Mariquilla for Lu, killed him. But alas! that no one takes it from me, that it is what goes
... He spends his days watching from afar Marchamalo tower. Cups that I drank in the tavern of
the road and I saw poison golvían raise or lower someone the slope of the vineyard! ... He
spends his nights lying between the strains, with the shotgun next, ready to stick a coaching
inn highlands in the womb to the first who approached gate ... But
I have not seen more than the dogs.

The locked gate. And meanwhile, the farm of walks Matanzuela desgobernao,
although the lack Cursed I do with this strike.

I'm never there: the poor Zarandillo load it too, if he knew the master, I said goodbye. Only
I have eyes and ears to zeal to your sister and know that there is engagement, not love anybody.
I'm almost to tell you that I still have some law, look you if I'm dumb! ... But the Cursed
runs away from me, and says he loves me.

- But thou hast done something, Rafael? Do not be angry for some light yours?

- No: that either.

I'm more innocent than the child Jesus and the lamb that takes into Lao. Since I have relations
with your sister, do not look for a maid. Toas seem ugly and Mariquilla knows. Last night
I talked to her, when I asked him to forgive me, not knowing why, and asked if he had offended
at something, the poor girl wept as Malaena.

Your sister knows that I have not fartao as much as this nail. She herself said: "Poor Rafa! You are
good! Forget me, you'd be unhappy with me.

      " And I closed the window
    ...

The strapping young man groaned as he said this, while his friend, who had finished eating, thoughtful
support his forehead in one hand.

- Well, son - Fermín muttered .-- do not understand this hieroglyph. Mariquita and does not let
you another boyfriend: pities you, tells you you're good, showing that even you have a will,
and you close the window. The demon who understands women! And what
are sometimes poor soul the condemned!

...

Increased the noise in the room of revelry, and a woman's voice, sharp
as a tremor metal reached the two friends.

I left ... Gypsy bad! When I wanted more ...

Rafael could not hear more. Popular poetry clawed his naive soul with sadness. Broke to mourn
with cries of children, as if the song was his story as if it had
been made after being fired him from that gate, where was the happiness
of his life.

- Do you hear, Fermin? - Sighing .-- That said, I am.

It happens that the pobresito of the couplet. He has compassion for a dog breeding, you want,
do not let him, her screams inspire sorry, and I, who am a man, a creature of God, the Street! If
you wanted, you no longer I! A burst of grief! ... Christ! Paece lie that I'm dead yet! ...

They
were silent for a long time.

Absorbed in his thoughts, no longer heard the noise of the fun, feminine
voice that was singing songs.

- Fermin - suddenly said the overseer
.-- You're the only thing that could occur to fix everything.

This is why he had waited out the desktop. He knew his great influence
on family.

Maria de la Luz respected him more than his father, and became languages ​​of their wisdom.

Education in England, and the praise of the foreman, who saw his son intelligence almost as big
as his teacher, influenced the girl, eating in your brotherly kindness
a great deal of admiration.

Rafael did not dare to speak the godfather: he was afraid. But Fermin was waiting around, and
trusted him.

- What you tell him to do, that will ... Ferminillo, do not forsake
me, protect me.

You are my employer, I would like to get in and go on an altar candles and pray to a litany. Fermin
darling me: do not leave me, save me.

Soft rock that, in heart, catch me, because otherwise I and I fall to prison or the madhouse.

Montenegro
exaggerations mocked the whimpering of his friend.

- Okay, man, do what you can, but do not weep, nor let go of those
prayers, you look like Don Pablo, my principal, when spoken of God.

Mariquita see: I'll tell him you: I'll tell the very indina what they deserve. What, are you happy
now? ...

Rafael cleaned the tears, and smiled with childlike simplicity, showing
his teeth square of crisp white.

But his joy was impatient. When thinking Fermín see Mariquita?

- Men, tomorrow. On the desktop we are very busy in the year-end settlement.

English accounts give me too busy.

The strapping young man made a gesture of annoyance. Tomorrow! ... One more night of no sleep, to mourn
misfortune, of cruel uncertainty, not knowing whether to expect anything.

Montenegro

laughed at the sadness of the overseer.

But how to put the love of mankind! Daba desire with the rod tip to that young man, like an
overgrown child and angry.

- No, Fermin, and I ask you Sallu.

Do something for me, see at once and you will draw a soul with grief.

Nothing you say on the desktop: the gentlemen you want, you spoil your child.

And he besieged with pleas burning, with caressing words, to be at once sighted with his sister.
Montenegro yielded, overcome by anxiety fine fellow.

That would Marchamalo same evening, lie the head of the desk saying that her father was ill.
Don Ramon was good and would turn a blind eye.

The impatient Rafael then told that they were shorter than the evening
of January and the need take advantage of the time.

Fermín called the servant, who missed the paucity of the two friends, inviting them to ask
for more.

Everything was paid! Don Luis had an open mind! ...

Leaving Rafael, went directly to the street, fearing that the master could see him with his eyes red.
Fermín poked his head into the room of revelry, and after accepting a glass of Dupont fled
from it, trying to catch him by the lapels, for her to stay.

Before the afternoon was Marchamalo Fermin. Rafael took him on the rump of his horse. His impatience
made him twitch his heels, spurring the animal.

- Are you going to pop it, great! - Shouted Montenegro, sticking his
chest to the back of the rider .-- That weigh much both!

...

But Rafael only thought about the next interview.

- In the very carriage of St. Elias would I take, Ferminillo for you
to see before the cunt.

They stopped at the tavern on the road near the vineyard.

- Do you want to wait? - Said the overseer .-- I will gladly wait
here until the day of Judgement.

I felt impatient to know the resolution of the girl. But Fermin did not want wait for him.
Planned to spend the night in the vineyard.

He continued the march on foot, while Raphael was announced to voices that would come to fetch
the next day.

When Mr. Fermin saw the arrival of her son, she asked anxiously if
anything happened Jerez.

"Nothing, Father." He came to spend the night with the family as on the desktop had given
permission for lack of work. The old appreciated the visit, but without discarding had expressed
concern that the arrival of his son.

- I thought, to see that something bad happened in Jerez, but still
nothing happens, will happen soon.

Yo, from here, I know everything, never missing a friend of the other wineries that brings me blow
what they think the strikers.

Furthermore, in the tavern repeat what they hear on carriers ranches.

And the foreman told his son of a meeting that the workers were to be held on Next on the plains
of Caulin. Nobody knew who gave the orders, but the call had circulated by word of mouth through
the countryside and the mountains, and would join thousands of men,
coming up to the limits of the province of Malaga, all the wages they
earned in the Jerez countryside.

- A true revolution, son.

Come in all this a stranger, a boy called the Madrid, speaking of killing the rich and share the
treasures of the city. People seems crazy, everyone thinks that tomorrow will succeed and that was just
misery.

The Madrid uses the name of Salvatierra, as works by his orders, and many say, as if have seen,
that Don Fernando is hidden in Jerez and presented at the time of
revolution.

What do you know this? ...

Fermín shook his head in disbelief. Salvatierra had written some days before without state intentions
to return to Jerez. Doubted that was true travel. In addition, we
seemed unlikely this attempt at revolt.

It would be an alarm over the many invented of the desperation of the hungry. Amounted to an attempt
madness invasion City troops being there.

- I see you, Father, how
are met in Caulin, everything is reduced to shouting and threats,
and at meetings in the ranch.

And Don Fernando, do not pass you off. I have the conviction you are in Madrid. It is not so
foolish as to go to engage in crazy like this.

- I myself believe,
son, but about what might happen tomorrow seeks you mix with those
crazy, if you enter the city.

Fermín looked around, eyes searching for her sister. Finally Mary left the house Light, smiling
at his Fermín, welcoming his visit with exclamations of joyful surprise. The boy looked at her
intently. Nothing! Not to talk to Rafael, I could not guess sadness those who had cut his
loves.

It was more than an hour without being able to speak alone with his sister. In the stares Fermin
seemed to guess the girl some of his thoughts. It aims to show impassive but his face, as soon
paled with the transparency of the wax, as flushed with a rush of
blood.

Mr. Fermín down the slope of the vineyard, going to meet some carriers passing down the road.
His keen eye of a peasant were recognized from above. They were friends, and wanted They know what
they were talking on the ranches of the meeting the next day.

When left alone the two brothers, their eyes met in the middle of an awkward silence.

- I have to talk, Mariquita - at last the boy said with determination.

- Then start anytime, Fermín - she answered .-- I guessed quiet accent to see that something was
coming.

- No, not here. Father could return, and what we have to talk takes time and quiet. Let's take
a walk.

And the two set off down the hill, down the slope opposite the highway.
Down and between strains on the back of the tower, going to a limiting
line cacti the great vineyard on this side.

Maria de la Luz tried
to stop several times not wanting to go that far. Wished to speak
regarding prior to exit from its agonizing uncertainty. But the brother
was reluctant to start the conversation pisasen while the land under
the supervision of his father.

They stopped at the fence of prickly
pears, along with a wide gap revealed a copudo olive grove after which
the sun descending branches.

Fermin had his sister to sit on the
bank, and planting himself before her, said sweet smile to encourage
her to trust:

- Let's see, Loquillo: you tell me why you broke with
Rafael, why did you fired like a dog, causing her such pain that the
poor seems to be dying.

Maria de la Luz seemed to take a joke issue,
but was pale and his smile was the tension a sad face.

- Because
I love him, because I cansao him, ea! It is a dull boring me. Am I
not owner to want a man like me? ...

Fermin spoke like a rebellious
child. I was lying: he was known in his face. Could not hide that
still loved Rafael. There was something in everything that he knew
needed for the good of the bride and groom, to put back together.
This Boredom Lie! Lie bully that girl power that was expressed to
justify breaking Mariquita Rafael! She was not bad, it could not deal
with such cruelty to her old boyfriend. What! Is that how you break
a love affair started almost as a child? So farewell to a man after
to have had it for years and years, as it were, sewn skirts? There
was something his conduct could not be explained, and it was necessary
that she be told. Was not his brother unique and the best of friends?
Do not tell him all the things you did not dare say father, by the
respect he inspired in him? ...

But she was insensitive to caressing
and persuasive tone of his brother.

- There is nothing of that -
said firmly, craning his chest as if to rise .-- All are your own
inventions. No more, I'm tired of dating, I have no man, I spend my
life with father and you. Who better than you? Gone the bride and
groom!

The brother greeted these words with a gesture of disbelief.
Lying again! Why soon tired of the man he had wanted? What causes
powerful had broken so quickly love? ... Mariquita Ah! He was not
so stupid to swallow an apology unmeaning.

And as the girl, to hide
his embarrassment lifted his voice, repeating strongly owned their
will and could do whatever was to their liking, Fermin began to chafe.

-
Ah, young lady fake! Alma hard! Heart song! Do you think a man is
left when one you think, after having entertained for years at the
gate, maddened groups with little words, saying that he wants more
than life? For much less them advantage of some the heart of a stab
... Shout: repeats that do what you please: I think in that unhappy,
while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually a shame,
crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez. It did not seem possible that he could make his way, for
the place was not high enough for him even to crawl on his hands and knees, and he had rather
to worm himself along on his elbows in quite indescribable fashion. Still, Tattine and Mabel
were more than ready to have him try, and waited patiently, bending over with their hands upon
their knees, and gazing in through the weed-grown hole in breathless, excited fashion.

"I believe I'll have to give it up," Rudolph called back; "the cries seem as far off as ever
and I'm all but scratched to pieces." "Oh, don't! don't!" cried Tattine and Mabel, in one breath,
and Mabel added, "We MUST know what they are and where they are. I shall go in myself if you
come out."

"Well, you wouldn't go more than three feet then, I can tell you," and Rudolph was right about
that. It was only because he hated to give the thing up, even more than the girls hated to
have him, that made him persevere. "Well, here they are at last!" he cried exultingly, a few
moments later; "one, two three, four of them, perfect little beauties too. And they must belong
to Betsy; they're just like her."

"Bring one out, bring one out!" called both the children, and fairly dancing with delight.

"Bring out your grandmother! It's all I can manage to bring myself out, without holding on
to a puppy."

"Very well," Tattine called back, with her usual instant acceptance of the inevitable, "but
I know what," and then she was off in a flash, with Mabel following closely to find out what
WHAT might be.

It was Joseph the gardener whom Tattine wanted, and she found him where she thought she would,
killing potato-bugs in the kitchen-garden.

"What do you think, Joseph? Betsy has a beautiful set of little setters under the piazza. Come
quick, please! and see how we can get them out."

Joseph followed obediently. "Guess we'll have to let them stay there till they crawl out,"
said Joseph; "Betsy'll take as good care of them there as anywhere," whereupon the children
looked the picture of misery and despair. At this moment Rudolph emerged from the hole a mass
of grass and dirt stains, and both Mabel and Tattine thought he had been pretty plucky, though
quite too much preoccupied to tell him so, but Rudolph happily felt himself repaid for hardships
endured, in the delight of his discovery.

"It will be a month before they'll have sense enough to crawl out," he remarked to Joseph,
"and they're wedged in between some old planks in very uncomfortable fashion. They look like
fine little fellows too. I think we ought to manage in some way to get them out."

"And it would be bad if any of them died there," said Joseph, rubbing his head and still ruminating
on the subject; "very bad. Well, we'll have to see what we` can do about it."

"Will you see right away?" urged Tattine eagerly.

"May as well, I reckon," and Joseph walked off in the direction of the tool-house, but to Tattine's
regret evidently did not appreciate any need for extreme haste.

In a little while he was back again with Patrick, and both of them were carrying spades. "There's
only one way to do it," he explained, as they set to work; "you see, the pillars of this porch
rest on a stone foundation, so as to support the rooms above, and we'll have to dig out three
or four of the large stones and then dig a sort of trench to wherever the puppies are," and
Rudolph was able of course to indicate the exact spot to which the trench must lead. It was
the work of an hour to excavate the foundation-stones, and an additional half-hour to dig the
trench. Meantime Betsy appeared upon the scene, and, evidently appreciating what was going
on, stood about and superintended matters with quite an important air. Rudolph clambered in
and dug the last few feet of the trench, because it did not need to be as large for him as
for Joseph and Patrick, and then one at a time he brought the dear little puppies out, and
Mabel and Tattine took turns in appropriating them, while Betsy eyed them proudly but withal
a little anxiously. And they were dear; as prettily marked as their beautiful grandmother Tadjie,
and too cunning for words.

"You have made us a great deal of trouble, Betsy," said Tattine, "but they are such beauties
we forgive you," whereat Betsy looked up so affectionately that Tattine added, "and perhaps
some day I'll forgive you about that rabbit, since Mamma says it's natural for you to hunt
them." But Betsy, indifferent creature, did not care a fig about all that; her only care was
to watch her little puppies stowed away one by one on fresh sweet-smelling straw, in the same
kennel where Doctor and his brothers and sisters had enjoyed their puppy-hood, and then to
snuggle up in a round ball close beside them. They were Betsy's puppies for a certainty. There
had been no doubt of that from the first glimpse Rudolph gained of them in their dark little
hole under the porch. But the next morning came and then what do you suppose happened? A very
weak little puppy cry came from under the porch. Another puppy, that was what it meant, and
Joseph was very much out of patience, for the trench had been filled up and the foundation-stones
carefully replaced.

"Rudolph ought to have made sure how many there were," he said rather growlily.

"But, Joseph, this puppy cry comes from another place way over here, it seems to me," and Tattine
ran to a spot on the porch several yards from that under which the others had been found. "I
believe it must have been a cleverer little puppy than the others, and crawled away by itself
to see what the world was like, and that is why Rudolph missed finding it."

Joseph put his hand to his ear and, listening carefully, concluded that Tattine was right.
"Now I'll tell you what I am going to do," he said; "I can make just a little hole, large enough
for a puppy to get through, without taking out a foundation-stone, and I'm going to make it
here, near where the cry seems to come from. Then I am going to tie Betsy to this pillar of
the porch, and I believe she'll have sense enough to try and coax the little fellow out, and
if the is such an enterprising little chap as you think he'll have sense enough to come out."

It seemed a good plan. Betsy was brought, and Tattine sat down to listen and watch. Betsy,
hearing the little cries, began at once to coax, giving little sharp barks at regular intervals,
and trying to make the hole larger with her paws.

Tattine's ears, which were dear little shells of ears to look at, and very sharp little ears
to hear with, thought the cries sounded a little nearer, and now a little nearer; then she
was sure of it, and Betsy and she, both growing more excited every minute, kept pushing each
other away from the hole the better to look into it, until at last two little beads of eyes
glared out at them, and then it was an easy thing for Tattine to reach in and draw out the
prettiest puppy of all.

"Why didn't you tell us there were five, Betsy, and save us all this extra trouble?" and Tattine
hurried away to deposit number five in the kennel; but Betsy looked up with the most reproachful
look imaginable as though to say, "How much talking could you do if you had to do it all with
your eyes and a tail?"

CHAPTER IV. MORE TROUBLES

Patrick Kirk was raking the gravel on the road into pretty criss-cross patterns, and Tattine
was pretending to help him with her own garden rake. Patrick was one of Tattine's best friends
and she loved to work with him and to talk to him. Patrick was a fine old Irishman, there was
no doubt whatever about that, faithful and conscientious to the last degree. Every morning
he would drive over in his old buggy from his little farm in the Raritan Valley, in abundant
time to begin work on the minute of seven, and not until the minute of six would he lay aside
spade or hoe and turn his steps towards his old horse tied under the tree, behind the barn.
But the most attractive thing about Patrick was his genial kindly smile, a smile that said
as plainly as words, that he had found life very comfortable and pleasant, and that he was
still more than content with it notwithstanding that his back was bowed with work month in
and month out, and the years were hurrying him fast on into old age.

And so Tattine was fond of Patrick, for what (child though she was) she knew him to be, and
they spent many a delightful hour in each other's company.

"Patrick," said Tattine, on this particular morning, when they were raking away side by side,
"does Mrs. Kirk ever have a day at home?" and she glanced at Patrick a little mischievously,
doubting if he would know just what she meant.

"Shure she has all her days at home, Miss Tattine, save on a holiday, when we go for a day's
drive to some of our neighbors', but I doubt if I'm catching just what you're maning."

"Oh! I mean does she have a day sometimes when she gets ready for company and expects to have
people come and see her, the way ladies do in town?"

"Well, no, miss; she don't do that, for, tin to one, nobody'd come if she did. We belongs to
the workin' classes, Molly and I, and we has no time for the doing of the loikes of city people."

"I'm sorry she hasn't a day," said Tattine, "because--because--"

"If ye're maning that you'd like to give us a call, miss," said Patrick, beginning to take
in the situation, "shure she could have a day at home as aisy as the foinest lady, and proud
indeed she'd be to have it with your little self for the guest of honor."

"I would like to bring Rudolph and Mabel, Patrick."

"And what should hinder, miss?"

"And I'd like to have it an all-day-at-home, say from eleven in the morning until five in the
afternoon, and not make just a little call, Patrick."

"Of course, miss, a regular long day, with your donkey put into a stall in the barn, and yourselves
and the donkey biding for the best dinner we can give ye."

"And I'd like to have you there, Patrick, because we might not feel AT HOME just with Mrs. Kirk."

"Well, I don't know, miss; do you suppose your Father could spare me?" and Patrick thought
a little regretfully of the dollar and a half he would insist upon foregoing if he took a day
off, but at the same moment he berated himself soundly for having such an ungenerous thought.
"Indade, miss, if you'll manage for me to have the day I'll gladly stay to home to make ye
welcome."

"Then it's settled, Patrick, and we'll make it the very first day Papa can spare you." They
had raked down, while they had been having this conversation, to close proximity to two pretty
rows of apple-trees that had been left on the front lawn, a reminder of the farm that "used
to be," and the sight of the trees brought a troubled look into Tattine's face. "Patrick,"
she said ruefully, "do you know that some of the nests in these trees have been robbed of their
eggs? Four or five of them are empty now. Have you an idea who could do such a thing?"

"Yes, I have an idea," and Patrick rested his hands upon the handle of his rake and looked
significantly towards the barn; "somebody who lives in the barn, I'm thinkin'."

"Why, Joseph would not do it, nor Philip the groom, and little Joey is too small to climb these
trees."

"It's something smaller than Joey, miss. Whisht now, and see if she's not up to mischief this
minute."

Tattine's little black-and-white kitten, whose home was in the barn, had been frisking about
her feet during all the raking, but as the raking came under the apple-trees, other thoughts
came into her little black-and-white head, and there she was stealthily clawing her way up
the nearest tree. Tattine stood aghast, but Patrick's "whisht" kept her still for a moment,
while the cat made its way along one of the branches. Tattine knowing well the particular nest
she was seeking, made one bound for her with her rake, and with such a scream as certainly
to scare little Black-and-white out of at least one of the nine lives to which she is supposed
to be entitled. But pussy was too swift and swiftly scrambled to the very topmost twig that
would hold her weight, while Tattine danced about in helpless rage on the grass beneath the
tree. "Tattine is having a fit," thought little Black-and-white, scared half to death and quite
ready to have a little fit of her own, to judge from her wild eyes and bristling tail.

Tattine's futile rage was followed in a few minutes by, "Oh, Patrick, I never dreamt it was
Kittie. Has SHE been TRAINED to do it, do you think?"

"Oh. no, miss; it just comes natural to cats and kittens to prey upon birds and birds' nests."

"Patrick," said Tattine solemnly, "there is not going to be any four-legged thing left for
me to love. I am done with Betsy and Doctor, and now I'm done with Black-and-white. I wonder
if Mamma can make it seem any better," and then she turned her steps to the house in search
of comfort, but she had gone only half-way when the coachman, who was waiting at the door with
the little grey mare and the phaeton, motioned to her to come quietly. Tattine saw at a glance
what had happened, and sped swiftly back to Patrick. "Keep Black-and-white up the tree," she
said, in a breathless whisper; "don't let her go near the nest, and don't let her come down
for the world. The little Phoebe-birds have lit."

"All right, miss," not at all understanding the situation, but more than willing to obey orders.
Tattine was in such haste to get back to the house that she hardly heard his answer. What she
had tried to tell him was that the five little fledglings, crowded into the tiny nest under
the eaves of the porch, had taken it into their heads to try their first flight at that precise
moment, and there they were perched on the shafts of the phaeton, lighting, as it seemed, on
the first thing they came to, while the father and mother birds were flying about in frantic
anxiety to see them in such a perilous situation. How could those tiny little untrained claws
keep their hold on that big round, slippery shaft, and if the carriage started down they would
surely go under the wheels or under the feet of that merciless little grey mare. But the little
fledglings were in better hands than they knew, for, with the exceptions of Betsy, Doctor,
and Black-and-white, every living thing at Oakdene was kind to every other living thing.

"Whoa, girlie; whoa, girlie," had been Patrick's quieting words to Lizzie, and then when Tattine
came hurrying that way he had motioned her to come quietly for fear of frightening them. Then,
as you know, Tattine flew to make sure that treacherous Black-and-white was kept close guarded,
and then back she flew again to the aid of the little birds themselves. Softly she drew nearer
and nearer, saying over gently, "Whoa, Lizzie! dear little birdies!" until she came very near
and then she put out one hand towards them. That was enough for the fledglings. Refreshed by
their rest on the shafts, they flapped their tiny wings and fluttered up to the anxious mother
bird on the branches above them, wholly unconscious that they had been in any peril whatsoever.

"And Black-and-white would have killed them, every one, if she had had the chance," thought
Tattine; "oh, if I only knew how to teach her a lesson!"

CHAPTER V. THE KIRKS AT HOME

Barney the donkey was harnessed, and Tattine sat in the little donkey-cart waiting, and as
she waited she was saying aloud, "What, Grandma Luty? Yes, Grandma Luty. No, Grandma Luty.
What did you say, Grandma Luty?" and this she said in the most polite little tone imaginable.
Meantime Rudolph and Mabel, discovering that Tattine did not see them, came stealing along
under cover of the apple-trees.

"Whatever is Tattine doing, talking to herself like that?" whispered Mabel, and then they came
near enough to hear what she was saying.

"She's out of her head," said Rudolph, when they had listened some moments, and then Tattine
turned round and saw them.

"No, I'm not out of my head at all," she laughed; "I was just practicing a little while I waited
for you."

"Practicing your GRANDMOTHER," which as you have observed was a pet expression with Rudolph,
whenever he wished to intimate that he considered your remarks to be simply absurd.

"Yes, that's exactly it," Tattine answered good-naturedly. "I am practicing my Grandmother.
Grandma Luty, that's Mamma's mother, has come to make us a visit, and Mamma has discovered
that I'm not very polite to old people. Children used to be taught, you know, to say, 'Yes'm,'
and 'Yes, sir,' but now that is not considered nice at all, and you must always say the name
of the person you are speaking to, especially if they are older people, to whom you ought to
be respectful," and Tattine sounded quite like a little grandmother herself as she talked.

"Yes, we know, and it's an awful bother," sighed Rudolph. "We're fairly nagged about it, Mabel
and I, but Mother says she's going to keep it up until we always do it. Perhaps we would get
on faster if we practised by ourselves as you do, but really, Tattine, it did sound as though
you were out of your head, to hear you saying all those sentences over to yourself."

While the children were having this little talk about politeness, Rudolph and Mabel had climbed
into the wagon, and the donkey, acting upon a suggestion from Tattine's whip, had started down
the roadway. The trio were off for Patrick's, for this was to be the day of the Kirks' "At
Home," and, dressed in kis Sunday-best, Patrick that very minute was waiting at his door to
receive them.

Full two miles lay ahead of the children, and though Barney fortunately seemed to be in the
mood for doing his best, Patrick would still have a full half-hour to wait. At last the donkey-cart
drew up at the Kirks' door and two happy old people welcomed three happy little people into
their comfortable little home. It would take another book, the size of this one, to tell you
all the doings of that August day. First they went into the house and laid their wraps on the
white coverlid of the great high feather-bed in the little spare room, and then Mrs. Kirk sat
them down to three little blue bowls of bread-and-milk, remarking, "shure you must be after
being hungry from your long drive," and the children ate it with far more relish than home
bread-and-milk was ever eaten.

"Now I'm doubting," said Patrick, standing with his back to the cooking-stove and with a corn-cob
pipe in his mouth, "if it's the style to have bread-and-milk at 'At Homes' in the city."

"Patrick," answered Tattine seriously, "we do not want this to be a city 'At Home.' I don't
care for them at all. Everybody stays for just a little while, and everybody talks at once,
and as loudly as they can, and at some of them they only have tea and a little cake or something
like that to eat," and Tattine glanced at the kitchen-table over by the window with a smile
and a shake of the head, as though very much better pleased with what she saw there. A pair
of chickens lay ready for broiling on a blue china platter. Several ears of corn were husked
ready for the pot they were to be boiled in. A plate of cold potatoes looked as though waiting
for the frying-pan, and from the depths of a glass fruit-dish a beautiful pile of Fall-pippins
towered up to a huge red apple at the top.

"Indade, thin, but we'll do our best," said Mrs. Kirk, "to make it as different from what you
be calling a city 'At Home' as possible, and now suppose you let Patrick take you over our
bit of a farm, and see what you foind to interest you, and I'm going wid yer, while ye have
a look at my geese, for there's not the loike of my geese at any of the big gentlemin's farms
within tin miles of us."

And so, nothing loth, the little party filed out of the house, and after all hands had assisted
in unharnessing Barney and tying him into his stall, with a manger-full of sweet, crisp hay
for his dinner, they followed Mrs. Kirk's lead to the little pond at the foot of the apple-orchard.
And then what did they see! but a truly beautiful great flock of white geese. Some were sailing
gracefully around the pond, some were pluming their snowy breasts on the shore beside it, and
three, the finest of them all, and each with a bow of ribbon tied round its long neck, were
confined within a little picket-fence apart from the others.

"Why, what beauties, Mrs. Kirk!" exclaimed Tattine, the minute she spied them, "and what are
the ribbons for? Do they mean they have taken a prize at some show or other? And why do they
each have a different color?"

"They mane," said Mrs. Kirk proudly, standing with her hands upon her hips and her face fairly
beaming, "they mane as how they're to be presinted to you three children. The red is for Master
Rudolph, the white is for Miss Mabel, and the blue is for you, Miss Tattine."

"Oh, Mrs. Kirk!" the three children exclaimed, with delight, and Mabel added politely, "But
do you really think you can spare them, Mrs. Kirk?"

"Why, of course she can! can't you, Mrs. Kirk?" cut in Rudolph warmly, for the idea of relinquishing
such a splendid gift was not for a moment to be thought of. "I wonder how we can get them home,"
he added, by way of settling the matter.

"Indade, thin, and I have this foine crate ready to go right in the back of your cart," and
there, to be sure, was a fine sort of cage with a board top and bottom and laths at the sides,
while other laths were lying ready to be nailed into place after the geese should have been
stowed away within it. The children were simply wild over this addition to their separate little
sets of live-stock, and although the whole day was delightful, there was all the while an almost
impatient looking forward to the supreme moment when they should start for home with those
beautiful geese in their keeping. And at last it came.

"I wonder if my goose will be a little lonely," said Tattine, as they all stood about, watching
Patrick nail on the laths.

"Faith and it will thin," said Mrs. Kirk. "It never came to my moind that they wouldn't all
three be together. Here's little Grey-wing to keep Blue-ribbon company," and Mrs. Kirk seized
one of the smaller geese that happened to be near her, and squeezed it into the cage through
the small opening that was left.

"Well, if you can spare it, I think that is better, Mrs. Kirk, because everything has a companion
over at our place. We have two cats, two pairs of puppies, two little bay horses, and two greys,
and two everything, but as there's only one of me I am friends with them all--"

"Bless your heart, but I'm glad you thought to mintion it," and then Patrick and Mrs. Kirk
gave each little extended hand a hearty shake, and the children--declaring over and over that
"they had a lovely time and were so much obliged for the geese"--climbed into the cart and
set off for home.

"I'd go the short cut by the ford," advised Patrick; "it looks like we might get a shower by
sunset."

"Yes, I think we would better," said Rudolph, glancing toward the clouds in the west Rudolph
prided himself on his ability to forecast the weather, and was generally able to tell correctly
when a shower was pretty sure to come and when it was likely to "go round."

So Barney was coaxed into a good gait, which he was ready as a rule to take towards home, and
the little ford by way of a farm-lane, and which saved a good mile on the road home, was soon
reached. Barney knew the place well and, always enjoying it, picked his way carefully to the
middle of the ford, and then he took it into his stubborn little head to stand stock still,
and to plant his four hoofs firmly in the nice soft mud at the bottom of the stream.

"Go on," urged Tattine; "Go on," urged Mabel, and Rudolph applied his sapling whip with might
and main, but all to no effect. Meantime some geese from a neighboring farm had come sailing
out into the ford, to have a look at their friends in the crate, and the geese in the crate,
wild to be out on the water with their comrades, craned their long necks far out between the
laths, and set up a tremendous squawking. It was rather a comical situation, and the children
laughed till their sides ached, but after a while it ceased to be so funny. The clouds were
rolling up blacker, and there was an occasional flash of lightning far off in the distance,
but Barney stood still obdurate and unmoved, simply revelling in the sensation of the cool
water, running down-stream against his four little donkey-legs. At last Rudolph was at his
wits' end, for what did Tattine and Mabel do but commence to cry. Great drops of rain were
falling now, and they COULD NOT BEAR THE THOUGHT of being mid-way in that stream with the storm
breaking right above their heads, and when girls, little or big, young or old, cannot bear
the thought of things they cry. It does not always help matters; it frequently makes them more
difficult, but then again sometimes it does help a little, and this appeared to be one of those
things, for when the girls' crying put Rudolph to his wits' end, he realized that there was
just one thing left to try, and that was to jump overboard and try and pull Barney to land,
since Barney would not pull him. So into the water he jumped, keeping the reins in his hand,
and then, getting a little ahead of Barney, he began to walk and pull. Now fortunately, there
is nothing like the force of example, which simply means that when Barney saw Rudolph walking
and pulling he began to walk and pull too.

Meantime, while Patrick and his wife were thinking that the children had had plenty of time
to reach home before the storm, there was great anxiety in the two homes where those three
dear children lived. Patrick the coachman and Philip the groom had been sent with the wagonette
by the main road to Patrick Kirk's--Patrick to bring the children and Philip to take charge
of Barney, but as the children were coming home, or rather trying to come home, by the ford,
of course they missed them.

All the while the storm was growing in violence, and suddenly for about five minutes great
hailstones came beating down till the lawn was fairly white with them, and the panes of glass
in the green-house roof at Oakdene cracked and broke beneath them. "And those three blessed
children are probably out in it all," thought Tattine's Mother, standing pale and trembling
at her window, and watching the road which the wagonette would have to come. And then what
did she see but Barney, trotting bravely up the hill, with the geese still craning their necks
through the laths of the cage, but the reins dragging through the mud of the roadway, and with
no children in the little cart. Close behind him came the wagonette, which Barney was cleverly
managing to keep well ahead of, but Mrs. Gerald soon discovered that neither were the children
in that either. In an instant she was down the stairs and out on the porch to meet Patrick
at the door.

"It isn't possible you have no word of the children?" she cried excitedly.

"Patrick Kirk says they started home by the ford in time to reach here an hour before the storm,"
gasped Patrick, "but we came back by the ford ourselves and not a sign have we seen of them,
till Barney ran out of the woods ahead of us five minutes ago."

And then a dreadful thought flashed through her mind. Could it be possible they had been drowned
in the ford? But that moment her eyes saw something that made her heart leap for joy, something
that looked drowned enough, but wasn't. Rudolph was running up the hill as fast as his soaking
clothing would let him, and, reaching the door breathless enough, he sank down on the floor
of the porch.

"Oh, Mrs. Gerald," he said, as soon as he could catch his breath, "Mabel and Tattine are all
right; they're safe in the log play-house at the Cornwells', but we've had an awful fright.
Is Barney home? When the hail came I tied him to a tree and we ran into the log house, but
he broke away the next minute and took to his heels and ran as fast as his legs could carry
him. Barney's an awful fraud, Mrs. Gerald."

But Mrs. Gerald had no time just then to give heed to Barney's misdoings. Seizing a wrap from
the hall, she ordered Rudolph into the house and to bed, as quickly as he could be gotten there,
sent Philip to Rudolph's Mother with the word that the children were safe, and then started
off in the wagonette to bring Mabel and Tattine home.

"Mamma," said Tattine, snuggling her wet little self close to her Mother's side in the carriage,
"Rudolph was just splendid, the way he hauled Barney and us and the cart out of the water,
but Mamma, I am done with Barney now too. He's not to be trusted either."

Mrs. Gerald thought of two or three things that might be urged in Barney's favor, but it did
not seem kind even to attempt to reason with two such tired and soaking little specimens, so
she only said, "Well, Barney can never again be trusted in the ford, that's one sure thing."

"No, indeed," said Mabel warmly; "I would not give fifty cents for him."

"You can have him for nothing," said Tattine, with a wan little smile; "after this he can never
be trusted in anything."

CHAPTER VI. "IT IS THEIR NATURE TO."

Tattine was getting on beautifully with her attempt to use Grandma Luty's name at the proper
time, and in the proper place, and she was getting on beautifully with grandma herself as well.
She loved everything about her, and wished it need not be so very long till she could be a
grandma herself, have white hair and wear snowy caps atop of it, and kerchiefs around her neck,
and use gold eye-glasses and a knitting-basket. Grandma Luty, you see, was one of the dear,
old-fashioned grandmothers. There are not many of them nowadays. Most of them seem to like
to dress so you cannot tell a grandmother from just an ordinary everyday mother. If you have
a grandmother--a nice old one, I mean--see if you cannot get her into the cap and kerchief,
and then show her how lovely she looks in them. But what I was going to tell you was that Grandma
Luty's visit was all a joy to Tattine, and so when, just at daylight one morning, the setter
puppies in their kennel at the back of the house commenced a prodigious barking, Tattine's
first thought was for Grandma.

"It's a perfect shame to have them wake her up," she said to herself, "and I know a way to
stop them," so, quiet as a mouse, she stole out of bed, slipped into her bed-slippers and her
nurse's wrapper, that was lying across a chair, and then just as noiselessly stole downstairs,
and unlocking the door leading to the back porch, hurried to open the gate of the kennel, for
simply to let the puppies run she knew would stop their barking. Tattine was right about that,
but just as she swung the gate open, a happy thought struck those four little puppies' minds,
and as she started to run back to the house, all four of them buried their sharp little teeth
in the frill of Priscilla's wrapper.

Still Tattine succeeded in making her way across the lawn back to the door, although she had
four puppies in tow and was almost weak from laughing.

She knew perfectly well what a funny picture she must make, with the wrapper that was so much
too large for her, only kept in place by the big puff sleeves: and with the puppies pulling
away for dear life, it the train. 

Lazarus felt that this and mortifications were not martyrs, but also said that it was not living
in the world and their struggles, and that being good few people around him, could not be detestable
life. How different was offered the spectacle of the world began a step beyond those walls
respected! True, all behind closed doors was rest and holiness, but how many horrors and sorrows
awaited him to put the plant in that society where every day is a struggle and every hour a
wound! Project was the poor kid for the future, and judging life as he had painted it, thinking
it was all evils sorrows and misfortunes, was preparing to enter her anxious, fearful, like inexperienced
soldier soon hear the first step of attack touched by the horns of his battalion.

Tratábale his uncle graciously, respect or adulation of the bishop, how he did the same thing
around, and thanks to their protection Lazarus entered in the race that he had intended, shielded
from the hardships, fraught with the future fortunes, and his soul full of foreboding. He had painted his
mission so that, impressed the imagination, saw in the priesthood the apostolate of the whole
noble idea. But despite this, when alone with his book of hours under his arm, he looked across
the wide corridors or sit under the shade of the garden, seemed within his soul seethed and poked
their eyes vague fears for his life future and doubts about the fate that was reserved.


"No; I've always thought myself that line was not quite fair to the dogs either, but the verses
mean that we mustn't blame animals for doing things that it is their nature to do."

"And yet, Grandma, I am not allowed to do naughty things because it is my nature to."

"Ah, but, Tattine, there lies the beautiful difference. You can be reasoned with, and made
to understand things, so that you can change your nature--I mean the part of you that makes
you sometimes love to do naughty things.

"There's another part of your nature that is dear and good and sweet, and doesn't need to be
changed at all. But Betsy and Doctor can only be trained in a few ways, and never to really
change their nature.

"Setters have hunted rabbits always, kittens have preyed upon birds, and donkeys, as a rule,
have stood still whenever they wanted to." The media has to guide it are endless, but you you alone can use them.
Although I do like my habits sent from heaven, my word will always be human speech, and a daughter
only divine word of his own mother.

"It's a little like a sermon, Grandma Luty."

"It's a little bit of a one then, for it's over, but you go this minute and give Betsy and
Doctor a good hard hug, and tell them you forgive them."

And Tattine did as she was bid, and Doctor and Betsy, who had sadly missed her petting, were
wild with delight.

"But don't even you yourselves wish," she said, looking down at them ruefully, "that it was
not your nature to kill dear little baby rabbits?"

And Tattine thought they looked as though they really were very sorry indeed.

