Just before Mr. Broad's last illness, the secession of the Allens was imitated by about twenty
of the younger members of the congregation, who met together on Sunday, under Mr. Allen's guidance,
and worshipped by themselves, each of them in turn making some attempt at an exposition of
the Bible and a short address.  By the time Mr. Broad died Tanner's Lane had sunk very low;
but when his successor was chosen the seceders exercised their rights, and were strong enough
to elect a student fresh from college, who had taken an M.A. degree at the University of London.
He preached his first sermon from the text, "I am crucified with Christ," and told his hearers,
with fluent self-confidence, that salvation meant perfect sympathy with Christ--"Not I, but
Christ liveth in me;" that the office of Christ was not to reconcile God to man, but man to
God; and this is effected in proportion as Christ dwells in us, bringing us more and more into
harmony with the Divine.  The Atonement is indeed the central doctrine, the pivot of Christianity,
but it is an atONEment, a making of one mind.  To which Tanner's Lane listened with much wonderment
and not without uncomfortable mental disturbance, the elder members complaining particularly
that this was not the simple gospel, and that the trumpet gave an uncertain sound.  But opposition
gradually died out; the meeting-house was rebuilt, and called Latimer Chapel.  The afternoon
service was dropped and turned into a service for the Sunday-school children; an organ was
bought and a choir trained; the minister gave week-day lectures on secular subjects, and became
a trustee of the Cowfold charity schools, recently enlarged under a new scheme.  He brought
home a wife one day who could read German; joined the County Archaeological Society, and wrote
a paper on the discoveries made when the railway station was built on what was supposed to
be an ancient British encampment.  For Cowfold was to become an important junction on the new
line to the north, and Mr. Bushel's death had been accelerated by vexation through seeing a
survey carried across his own fields.

As for Mrs. Broad and Tryphosa, they left Cowfold and went into Lancashire, to be near uncle
Flavel.  George, notwithstanding the new doctrine in Latimer Chapel and the improvement in
the Cowfold atmosphere, was restless, and before the revolution just described was completed,
had been entirely overcome with a desire to emigrate with his child.  His father and mother
not only did not oppose, but decided to accompany.  Mr. Allen had saved money, and though he
and his wife were getting on in years, there was nothing in either of them of that subsidence
into indifferent sloth which is the great mistake of advancing age.  Both were keen in their
desire to know the last new thing, eager to recognise the last new truth, forgetful of the
past, dwelling in the present, and, consequently, they remained young.  They were younger,
at any rate, just now than George; and it was his, not exactly melancholy, but lack of zest
for life, which mainly induced them so readily to assent to his plans.  One bright June morning,
therefore, saw them, with their children, on the deck of the Liverpool vessel which was to
take them to America.  Oh day of days, when after years of limitation, monotony, and embarrassment,
we see it all behind us, and face a new future with an illimitable prospect!  George once more
felt his bosom's lord sit lightly on his throne; once more felt that the sunlight and blue
sky were able to cheer him.  So they went away to the West, and we take leave of them.

What became of Zachariah and Pauline?  At present I do not know.

Footnotes:

