Faro was played with an entire pack of cards, and admitted of an indeterminate number of players,
termed 'punters,' and a 'banker.' Each player laid his stake on one of the 52 cards. The banker
held a similar pack, from which he drew cards, one for himself, placed on the right, and the
other, called the carte anglaise, or English card, for the players, placed on the left. The
banker won all the money staked on the card on the right, and had to pay double the sums staked
on those on the left. Certain advantages were reserved to the banker:--if he drew a doublet,
that is, two equal cards, he won half of the stakes upon the card which equalled the doublet;
if he drew for the players the last card of the pack, he was exempt from doubling the stakes
deposited on that card.

Suppose a person to put down 20s. upon a card when only eight are in hand; the last card was
a cipher, so there were four places to lose, and only three to win, the odds against being
as 4 to 3. If 10 cards only were in, then it was 5 to 4 against the player; in the former case
it was the seventh part of the money, whatever it was, L1 or L100; in the latter case, a ninth.
The odds from the beginning of the deal insensibly stole upon the player at every pull, till
from the first supposed 4 per cent. it became about 15 per cent.

At the middle of the 18th century the expenses of a Faro bank, in all its items of servants,
rent, puffs, and other incidental charges of candles, wine, arrack-punch, suppers, and safeguard
money, &c., in Covent Garden, amounted to L1000 per annum. Throughout this century Faro was
the favourite game. 'Our life here,' writes Gilly Williams to George Selwyn in 1752, 'would
not displease you, for we eat and drink well, and the Earl of Coventry holds a Pharaoh-bank
every night to us, which we have plundered considerably.' Charles James Fox preferred Faro
to any other game.

HAZARD.

This game was properly so called; for it made a man or undid him in the twinkling of an eye.

It is played with only two dice; 20 persons may be engaged, or as many as will. The chief things
in the game are the Main and the Chance. The chance is the caster's and the main is the setter's.

There can be no main thrown above 9, nor under 5; so that 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 are all the mains
which are flung at Hazard. Chances and nicks are from 4 to 10. Thus 4 is a chance to 9, 5 to
8, 6 to 7, 7 to 6, 8 to 5, and 9 and 10 a chance to 5, 6, 7, and 8; in short, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, and 10 are chances to any main, if any of these 'nick' it not.

Nicks are either when the chance is the same with the main, as 5 and 5, 6 and 6, 7 and 7, and
so on; or 6 and 12, 7 and 11, 8 and 12, where observe, that 12 is out to 9, 7, and 5, and 11
is out to 9, 8, 6, and 5.

The better to illustrate the game we shall give an example. Let 7 be the main named. The caster
throws 5, and that is his chance; and so he has 5 to 7. If the caster throws his own chance
he wins all the money set to him by the setter; but if he throws 7, which is the main, he must
pay as much money as is on the table.

If, again, 7 be the main, and the caster throws 11, that is a nick, and sweeps away all the
money on the table; but if he throws a chance he must wait which will come first.

The worst chances in the game are 4 to 10, and 7 is considered the best and easiest main to
be thrown. It might be thought that 6 and 8 should admit of no difference in advantage to 7,
but it is just the reverse, although 6, 7, and 8 have eight equal chances.

For 6, or sice, we have quatre-duce, cinque-ace, and two treys; for 8, we have sice-duce, cinque-trey,
and two quatres; but the disadvantage is in the doublets required--two treys, two quatres;
therefore sice-duce is easier thrown than two quatres, and so, consequently, cinque-ace or
quatre-duce sooner than two treys.

'I saw an old rook (gambler),' says the writer before quoted, 'take up a young fellow in a
tavern upon this very bet. The bargain was made that the rook should have seven always, and
the young gentleman six, and throw continually. To play they went; the rook won the first day
L10, and the next day the like sum; and so for six days together, in all L60. Notwithstanding
the gentleman, I am confident, had fair dice, and threw them always himself. And further to
confirm what I alleged before, not only this gamester, but many more have told me that they
desired no greater advantage than this bet of 7 to 6. But it is the opinion of most that at
the first throw the caster hath the worst of it.

'Hazard is certainly the most bewitching game that is played with dice; for when a man begins
to play, he knows not when to leave off; and having once accustomed himself to it, he hardly
ever after minds anything else.'(66)

(66) The Compleat Gamester, by Richard Seymour, Esq. 1739.

As this game is of a somewhat complicated character, another account of it, which appeared
in the Pall Mall Gazette for Sept. 3, 1869, may not be unacceptable.

'The players assemble round a circular table, a space being reserved for the "groom-porter,"
who occupies a somewhat elevated position, and whose duty it is to call the odds and see that
the game is played correctly. Whoever takes the box and dice places in the centre of the table
as much money as he wishes to risk, which is at once covered with an equal amount either by
some individual speculator, or by the contributions of several. The player (technically called
the "caster") then proceeds to call a "main." There are five mains on the dice, namely, 5,
6, 7, 8, and 9; of these he mentally selects that one which either chance or superstition may
suggest, calls it aloud, shakes the box, and delivers the dice. If he throws the exact number
he called, he "nicks" it and wins; if he throws any other number (with a few exceptions, which
will be mentioned), he neither wins nor loses. The number, however, which he thus throws becomes
his "chance," and if he can succeed in repeating it before he throws what was his main, he
wins; if not, he loses. In other words, having completely failed to throw his main in the first
instance, he should lose, but does not in consequence of the equitable interference of his
newly-made acquaintance, which constitutes itself his chance. For example, suppose the caster
"sets"--that is, places on the table--a stake of L10, and it is covered by an equal amount,
and he then calls 7 as his main and throws 5; the groom-porter at once calls aloud, "5 to 7"--that
means, 5 is the number to win and 7 the number to lose, and the player continues throwing until
the event is determined by the turning up of either the main or the chance. During this time,
however, a most important feature in the game comes into operation--the laying and taking of
the odds caused by the relative proportions of the main and the chance. These, as has been
said, are calculated with mathematical nicety, are proclaimed by the groom-porter, and are
never varied. In the above instance, as the caster stands to win with 5 and to lose with 7,
the odds are declared to be 3 to 2 against him, inasmuch as there are three ways of throwing
7, and only two of throwing 5. As soon as the odds are declared, the caster may increase his
stake by any sum he wishes, and the other players may cover it by putting down (in this instance)
two-thirds of the amount, the masse, or entire sum, to await the turning up of either main
or chance. If a player "throws out" three times in succession, the box passes to the next person
on his left, who at once takes up the play. He may, however, "throw in" without interruption,
and if he can do so some half-dozen times and back his luck, the gains will be enormous.

'The choice of a main is quite optional: many prefer 7 because they may make a coup at once
by throwing that number or by throwing 11, which is a "nick" to 7, but to 7 only. Shrewd players,
however, prefer some other main, with the view of having a more favourable chance to depend
upon of winning both stake and odds. For example, let us reverse what was mentioned above,
and suppose the caster to call 5 and throw 7; he then will have 7 as his chance to win with
odds of 3 to 2 IN HIS FAVOUR.

'Such is the game of English Hazard, at which large fortunes have been won and lost. It is
exceedingly simple, and at times can become painfully interesting. Cheating is impossible,
unless with loaded dice, which have been used and detected by their splitting in two, but never,
perhaps, unless at some disreputable silver hell. The mode of remunerating the owner of the
rooms was a popular one. The loser never paid, and the winner only when he succeeded in throwing
three mains in succession; and even then the "box fee," as it was called, was limited to 5s.--a
mere trifle from what he must have gained. In French Hazard a bank is constituted at a board
of green cloth, and the proceedings are carried on in a more subdued and regular mode than
is the case in the rough-and-ready English game. Every stake that is "set" is covered by the
bank, so that the player runs no risk of losing a large amount, when, if successful, he may
win but a trifling one; but en revanche, the scale of odds is so altered as to put the double
zero of roulette and the "aprez" of Rouge et Noir to the blush, and to operate most predjudicially
to the player. In no case is an equal rate of odds between main and chance laid by the French
"banquier," as is insisted on by the English groomporter; while again "direct nicks" alone
are recognized by the former. Very extraordinary runs of luck have occurred at Hazard, one
player sometimes throwing five, seven, and even eleven mains in a single hand. In such cases
as these the peculiar feature in the French game becomes valuable, the bank being prepared
to pay all winnings, while, generally speaking, a hand of six or seven mains at English Hazard
would exhaust all the funds of the players, and leave the caster in the position of "setting
the table" and finding the stakes totally unnoticed or only partially covered.

'In addition to the fixed rules of English Hazard, there are several regulations which require
to be observed. The round table on which it is played has a deeply bevelled edge, which is
intended to prevent the dice from landing on the floor, which would be no throw. Again, if
either die after having left the box should strike any object on the table (such as a man's
elbow or stick) except MONEY, it would be called no throw. Again, each player has the privilege
of "calling dice," even when the dice are in transitu, which, if done, renders the throw void,
and causes another set to be handed to the caster by the groom-porter. Many a lucky coup has
become manque by some captious player exercising this privilege, and many an angry rencontre
has ensued between the officious meddler and the disappointed caster, who finds that he has
nicked his main to no advantage. Sometimes one die remains in the box after the other has been
landed; then the caster may either throw it quickly, or may tantalize those interested in the
event by gently coaxing it from the bow. If one die lands on the top of another, it is removed
by the groom-porter and declared a throw.

'Some thirty years ago English Hazard was a favourite game in Ireland, and Dublin could boast
of three or four hells doing a brisk trade. The most frequented and longest established was
called "The Coal Hole," being situated on the coal quay. Here, at any hour after midnight,
a motley company might be seen, each individual, however, well known to the porter, who jealously
scanned his features before drawing back the noiseless bolts which secured the door. The professional
gambler trying to live by his winnings, the fashionable swell finishing his round of excitement,
the struggling tradesman hoping to avert impending bankruptcy, the prize-fighter, and, more
conspicuous than any, the keen-eyed usurer with his roll of notes and sheaf of bill stamps,
were to be found there. Many strange scenes have occurred in this house, some followed by tragic
consequences too painful to relate, others ridiculous and amusing. Here it was that an angry
caster, having lost his last sovereign and his temper, also placed his black hat in the centre
of the table, swore that it was white, and finding no one disposed to dispute his accuracy,
flung himself from the room, and enabled the next player who had won so largely and smiled
so good-humouredly to take the box in turn. But fortune deserted him also, and left him penniless,
when, glaring savagely round the room, and striking the table violently, he thundered forth
the inquiry, "Where was the rascal who said his hat was white?" It was here also (although
the venue has been changed by story-mongers) that a well-known frequenter of the house, a sporting
M.P., on one occasion dropped on the 'door or in the passage a bank-note without discovering
his loss till he had reached home. On the next evening he returned to inquire for it in a forlorn-hope
spirit, when the following conversation took place between him and the porter:--

"M.P. I think, Simpson, I dropped a note here last night--did you see it?

"Porter. Shure, then, mony a note was dropped here beside yours.

"M. P. Ah! but I mean out of my pocket. I did not lose it at play. It was for L20, one of Ball's
Bank, and very old."

'Hereupon the porter brought the senator into a corner, fumbled the note out of his fob, and,
placing it in his hands, whispered, "Shure, I know it's yours, and here it is; but (looking
cautiously round) wasn't it lucky that none of the jintlemin found it?"

'Another establishment much patronized in those days was in Nassau Street, where early in the
evening unlimited Loo, never under "three and three," sometimes "six and six," might be indulged
in, while a little later Roulette formed the attraction of an adjacent room, and still later
at night all flocked down-stairs to the hot supper and rattling English Hazard. For one or
two seasons St Stephen's Green lent one of its lordly mansions, formerly the residence of a
cruel and witty Lord Chief Justice, to the votaries of fortune; here everything was done in
grand style, with gilded saloons, obsequious waiters, and champagne suppers. All this has long
since become matter of the past, and it would now puzzle the keenest detective to find the
trace even of a silver hell in the Irish capital. No one will be hardy enough to defend the
vice of gambling, but some have argued, and not without truth, that if a man will play it is
far better for him to indulge the propensity at Hombourg or Baden, where he cannot lose more
money than he has with him, than to do so in the cozy club-room of a private "salon," where
indulgent friends may tempt him to become bankrupt not only in fortune but in reputation.'

Passing over other less important games, called Biribi, and Kraps (played with dice), we come
to Passe-Dix, which seems to demand some notice.

PASSE-DIX.

This game, considered the most ancient of all games of chance, is said to have actually been
made use of by the executioners at the crucifixion of our Saviour, when they 'parted his garments,
casting lots,' Matt. xxvii. 35.

It is played with three dice. There is always a banker, and the number of players is unlimited.
Each gamester holds the box by turns, and the other players follow his chance; every time he
throws a point UNDER ten he, as well as the other players, loses the entire stakes, which go
to the banker. Every time he throws a point ABOVE ten (or PASSES TEN--whence the name of the
game), the banker must double the player's stakes and the stakes of all those who have risked
their money on the same chance. When the game is played by many together, each gamester is
banker in his turn.

PUT.

This was and doubtless still is the special card-game of our London sharpers. Many of these
are men who have run through a fortune in the early part of their lives, by associating with
gamblers and sharpers, set up for themselves, set honour and conscience at defiance, become
blacklegs, and are scouted out of even the gambler's company; and, as a last resource, are
obliged to resort to low pot-houses, robbing the poorest and most ignorant of society.

Behind the dupe there stood a confederate sharper, looking over the novice's hand, and telling
his opponent, by his fingers, what cards he holds--hence he was said to work the telegraph,
of which more in the sequel. Another confederate plied the novice with drink.

'The game of Put is played with an entire pack of cards, generally by two, and sometimes by
four persons. At this game the cards rank differently from all others; a trey being the best,
then a two, then an ace, then the king, queen, &c. The game consists of five points. The parties
cut for deal, as in Whist. The deal is made by giving three cards, one at a time, to each player.
The non-dealer then examines his cards, and if he thinks them bad, he is at liberty to PUT
them upon the pack, and his adversary scores one point to his game. This, however, should never
be done. Either party saying--"I put," that is, I play, cannot retract, but must abide the
event of the game, or pay the stakes.

'The THREE being the best card, if the sharper can make certain of having a three every time
his opponent deals, he must have considerably the best of the game; and this is effected as
follows:--the sharper places a three underneath an old gentleman (a card somewhat larger and
thicker than the rest of the pack), and it does not signify how much his opponent shuffles
the pack, it is about five to one that he does not disturb the OLD GENTLEMAN or the three.
The sharper then cuts the cards, which he does by feeling for the old gentleman; the three
being then the top card, it is dealt to the sharper by his opponent. That is one way of securing
a three, and this alone is quite sufficient to make a certainty of winning.'(67)

(67) Doings in London.

CROSS AND PILE.

Cross and Pile, so called because anciently English coins were stamped on one side with a cross,
now bears the names, Head and Tail, and is a pastime well known among the lowest and most vulgar
classes of the community, and to whom it is now confined; formerly, however, it held a higher
rank and was introduced at Court. Edward II. was partial to this and other frivolous diversions,
and spent much of his time in the pursuit of them. One person tosses the half-penny up and
the other cries at pleasure HEAD or TAIL, and loses according to the result.

Cross and Pile is evidently derived from the Greek pastime called Ostra Kinda, played by the
boys of ancient Greece. Having procured a shell, they smeared it over with pitch on one side
and left the other side white. A boy tossed up this shell, and his antagonist called white
or black,(68) as he thought proper, and his success was determined by the white or black part
of the shell being uppermost.

(68) In the Greek, nux kai hmera, that is, 'night and day.'

It is the favourite game of the boys of London and the vicinity, now, however, considerably,
if not entirely, discontinued through the vigilance of the police and the severity of the magistrates.
Not long ago, however, I witnessed a sad and striking scene of it at Twickenham. It was on
a Sunday morning. Several boys surrounded two players, one of the latter being about 14 years
of age, well dressed, and the other of about 10 years, all in tatters and shoeless. The younger
urchin had a long run of good luck, whereat his antagonist exhibited much annoyance, swearing
intemperately. At length, however, his luck changed in turn, and he went on winning until the
former refused to play any longer, saying--'There, you've got back all I won from you.' The
bigger boy became enraged at this refusal to continue the play, and seemed inclined to resort
to fisticuff, but I interposed and put a stop to the affray. I then questioned the elder boy,
and gathered from him that he played as often as he could, sometimes winning or losing from
eight to ten shillings. 'And do you generally win? was my next question.' 'No, sir,' he replied,
'I oftener lose.' I shuddered to conjecture what would be the future of this boy. The word
of warning I gave him was received with a shrug of the shoulder, and he walked off with the
greatest unconcern.

THIMBLE-RIG.

All races, fairs, and other such conglomerations of those whom Heaven had blessed with more
money than wit, used to be frequented by minor members of 'The Fancy,' who are technically
called flat-catchers, and who picked up a very pretty living by a quick hand, a rattling tongue,
a deal board, three thimbles, and a pepper-corn. The game they played with these three curious
articles is a sort of Lilliputian game at cups and balls; and the beauty of it lies in dexterously
seeming to place the pepper-corn under one particular thimble, getting a green to bet that
it was there, and then winning his money by showing that it is not. Every operator at this
game was attended by certain of his friends called eggers and bonnetters--the eggers to 'egg'
on the green ones to bet, by betting themselves; and the bonnetters to 'bonnet' any green one
who might happen to win--that is to say, to knock his hat over his eyes, whilst the operator
and the others bolted with the stakes.

Some years ago a curious case was tried, exemplifying the mode of procedure. A Frenchman, M.
Panchaud, was at Ascot Races, and he there saw the defendant and several other 'gentlemen'
betting away, and apparently winning 'lots of sovereigns,' at one of these same thimble-rigs.
'Try your luck, gentlemen,' cried the operator; 'I'll bet any gentleman anything, from half-a-crown
to five sovereigns, that he doesn't name the thimble as covers the corn!' M. Panchaud betted
half-a-crown--won it; betted a sovereign--won it; betted a second sovereign--LOST it. 'Try
your luck, gentlemen!' cried the operator again, shifting his thimbles and pepper-corn about
the board, here and there and everywhere in a moment; and this done, he offered M. Panchaud
a bet of five sovereigns that he could not 'name the thimble what covered the corn.' 'Bet him!
Bet him! Why don't you bet him?' said the defendant (a landlord), nudging M. Panchaud on the
elbow; and M. Panchaud, convinced in his 'own breast' that he knew the right thimble, said--'I
shall betta you five sovereign if you will not touch de timbles again till I name.' 'Done!'
cried the operator; and M. Panchaud was DONE--for, laying down his L10 note, it was caught
up by SOMEBODY, the board was upset, the operator and his friends vanished 'like a flash of
lightning,' and M. Panchaud was left full of amazement, but with empty pockets, with the defendant
standing by his side. 'They are a set of rascals!' said the defendant; 'but don't fret, my
fine fellow! I'll take you to somebody that shall soon get your money again; and so saying
he led him off in a direction thus described in court by the fleeced Frenchman.--'You tooke
me the WRONG way! The thieves ran one way, and you took me the other, you know, ahah! You know
what you are about--you took me the WRONG WAY--ahah!'

CHAPTER XI. COCK-FIGHTING.

Cock-fighting is a practice of high antiquity, like many other detestable and abominable things
that still cling to our social fabric. It was much in vogue in Greece and the adjacent isles.
There was an annual festival at Athens called 'The Cock-fighting,' instituted by Themistocles
at the end of the Persian war, under the following circumstances. When Themistocles was leading
his army against the Persians, he saw some cocks fighting; he halted his troops, looked on,
and said:--'These animals fight neither for the gods of their country, nor for the monuments
of their ancestors, nor for glory, nor for freedom, nor for their children, but for the sake
of victory, and in order that one may not yield to the other;' and from this topic he inspirited
the Athenians. After his victorious return, as an act of gratitude for this accidental occasion
of inspiring his troops with courage, he instituted the above festival, 'in order that what
was an incitement to valour at that time might be perpetuated as an encouragement to the like
bravery hereafter.' One cannot help smiling at these naive stories of the ancients to account
for their mightiest results. Only think of any modern warrior halting his troops to make use
of a cock-fight for the purpose of inspiriting them to victory!

On one occasion during the Peninsular war, when an important point was to be carried by assault,
the officers were required to say something encouraging to their men, in order to brace them
up for the encounter; but whilst the majority of the former recalled the remembrance of previous
victories, an Irish captain contented himself with exclaiming--'Now, my lads, you see those
fellows up there. Well, if you don't kill THEM, SHURE they'll kill YOU. That's all!' Struck
with the comic originality of this address, the men rushed forward with a laugh and a shout,
carrying all before them.

Among the ancient Greeks the cock was sacred to Apollo, Mercury, and aesculapius, on account
of his vigilance, inferred from his early rising--the natural consequence of his 'early to
bed'--and also to Mars, on account of his magnanimous and daring spirit.

It seems, then, that at first cock-fighting was partly a religious, and partly a political,
institution at Athens; and was there continued--according to the above legend--for the purpose
of cherishing the seeds of valour in the minds of youth; but that it was afterwards abused
and perverted, both there and in other parts of Greece, by being made a common pastime, and
applied to the purpose of gambling just as it was (and is still secretly) practised in England.
An Attic law ran as follows--'Let cocks fight publicly in the theatre one day in the year.'(69)

(69) Pegge, in Archoeologia, quoting aelian, Columella, &c.

As to cock-fighting at Rome, Pegge, in the same work, gives his opinion, that it was not customary
there till very late; but that quails were more pitted against each other for gambling purposes
than cocks. This opinion seems confirmed by the thankfulness expressed by the good Antoninus--'that
he had imbibed such dispositions from his preceptor, as had prevented him from breeding quails
for the fight.'

'One cannot but regret,' wrote Pegge in 1775, 'that a creature so useful and so noble as the
cock should be so enormously abused by us. It is true the massacre of Shrove Tuesday seems
in a declining way, and in a few years, it is to be hoped, will be totally disused; but the
cock-pit still continues a reproach to the humanity of Englishmen. It is unknown to me when
the pitched battle first entered England; but it was probably brought hither by the Romans.
The bird was here before Caesar's arrival; but no notice of his fighting has occurred to me
earlier than the time of William Fitz-Stephen, who wrote the Life of Archbishop Becket, some
time in the reign of Henry II. William describes the cocking as the sport of school-boys on
Shrove Tuesday. "Every year, on the day which is called Carnelevaria (Carnival)--to begin with
the sports of the London boys,--for we have all been boys--all the boys are wont to carry to
their schoolmaster their fighting-cocks, and the whole of the forenoon is made a holiday for
the boys to see the fights of their cocks in their schoolrooms." The theatre, it seems, was
their school, and the master was the controller and director of the sport. From this time at
least the diversion, however absurd, and even impious, was continued among us.'

'Although disapproved of by many, and prohibited by law, cock-fighting continued in vogue,
patronized even by royalty, and commonly called "the royal diversion." St James's Park, which,
in the time of Henry VIII., belonged to the Abbot of Westminster, was bought by that monarch
and converted into a park, a tennis court, and a cockpit, which was situated where Downing
Street now is. The park was approached by two noble gates, and until the year 1708 the Cock-pit
Gate, which opened into the court where Queen Anne lived, was standing. It was surmounted with
lofty towers and battlements, and had a portcullis, and many rich decorations. Westminster
Gate, the other entrance, was designed by Hans Holbein, and some foreign architect doubtless
erected the Cockpit Gate. The scene of the cruel diversion of cock-fighting was, however, obliterated
before Anne's time, and the palace, which was a large range of apartments and offices reaching
to the river, extended over that space.'(69)

(69) Wharton, Queens of Society.

Cock-fighting was the favourite amusement of James I., in whose reign there were cock-pits
in St James's Park, Drury Lane, Tufton Street, Shoe Lane, and Jermyn Street. There was a cock-pit
in Whitehall, erected for the more magnificent exhibition of the sport; and the present room
in Westminster in which her Majesty's Privy Council hold their sittings, is called the Cock-pit,
from its being the site of the veritable arena of old.

Cock-fighting was prohibited by one of Oliver's acts in 1654; but with the return of Charles
and his profligacy, the sport again flourished in England. 'Cocking,' says a writer of the
time, 'is a sport or pastime so full of delight and pleasure, that I know not any game in that
respect which is to be preferred before it.'

The training of the pugnacious bird had now become a sort of art, and this is as curious as
anything about the old 'royal diversion.' A few extracts from a treatise on the subject may
be interesting as leaves from the book of manners and customs of the good old times.

The most minute details are given as to the selection of fighting-cocks, the breeding of game
cocks, and 'the dieting and ordering a cock for battle.' Under this last head we read:--'In
the morning take him out of the pen, and let him spar a while with another cock. Sparring is
after this manner. Cover each of your cock's heels with a pair of hots made of bombasted rolls
of leather, so covering the spurs that they cannot bruise or wound one another, and so setting
them down on straw in a room, or green grass abroad; let them fight a good while, but by no
means suffer them to draw blood of one another. The benefit that accrues hereby is this: it
heateth and chafeth their bodies, and it breaketh the fat and glut that is within them. Having
sparred as much as is sufficient, which you may know when you see them pant and grow weary,
then take them up, and, taking off their hots, give them a diaphoretic or sweating, after this
manner. You must put them in deep straw-baskets, made for this purpose, and fill these with
straw half way, then put in your cocks severally, and cover them over with straw to the top;
then shut down the lids, and let them sweat; but don't forget to give them first some white
sugar-candy, chopped rosemary, and butter, mingled and incorporated together. Let the quantity
be about the bigness of a walnut; by so doing you will cleanse him of his grease, increase
his strength, and prolong his breath. Towards four or five o'clock in the evening take them
out of their stoves, and, having licked their eyes and head with your tongue, and put them
into their pens, and having filled their throats with square-cut manchet, **** therein, and
let them feed whilst the****is hot; for this will cause their scouring to work, and will wonderfully
cleanse both head and body.'

Was ever poor animal subjected to such indignity? The preparation of the other animal, the
jockey, is nothing to it. But, to continue:--

'The second day after his sparring, take your cock into a fair green close, and, having a dunghill
cock in your arms, show it him, and then run from him, that thereby you may entice him to follow,
permitting him to have now and then a blow, and thus chafe him up and down about half an hour;
when he begins to pant, being well-heated, take him up and carry him home, and give him this
scouring, &c.'

This training continued for six weeks, which was considered a sufficient time for 'ordering
a cock for the battle;' and then, after the 'matching,' came the last preparation of the poor
biped for the terrible fight in which he would certainly be either killed or kill his antagonist,
if both were not doomed to bite the dust. This consisted in the following disfigurement of
the beautiful creature:--

'With a pair of fine cock-shears cut all his mane off close into his neck from the head to
the setting on of the shoulders: secondly, clip off all the feathers from the tail close to
his rump; the redder it appears the better is the cock in condition: thirdly, take his wings
and spread them forth by the length of the first rising feather, and clip the rest slope-wise
with sharp points, that in his rising he may therewith endanger the eye of his adversary; fourthly,
scrape, smooth, and sharpen his spurs with a pen-knife; fifthly, and lastly, see that there
be no feathers on the crown of his head for his adversary to take hold of; then, with your
spittle moistening his head all over, turn him into the pit TO MOVE TO HIS FORTUNE.'

I should, perhaps, state that, instead of the natural spurs, long artificial ones of well-tempered
steel were fixed to the cock's heels in later times, and these were frequently driven into
the body of his antagonist with such vigour that the two cocks were spitted together, and had
to be separated.

The dreadful fight having come off, the following was the treatment prescribed for the fortunate
conqueror.

'The battle being ended, immediately search your cock's wounds, as many as you can find. SUCK
the blood out of them; then wash them well with warm ****, and that will keep them from rankling;
after this give him a roll of your best SCOURING, and so stove him up as hot as you can for
that night; in the morning, if you find his head swelled, you must suck his wounds again, and
bathe them with warm ****; then take the powder of herb Robert, and put it into a fine bag,
and pounce his wounds therewith; after this, give him a good handful of bread to eat out of
warm ****, and so put him into the stove again, and let him not feel the air till the swelling
be fallen.'

A cock sometimes took a long time to recover from his wounds--as, indeed, may be well supposed
from the terrible 'punishment' which he necessarily received; and so our professor goes on
to say:--'If after you have put out your wounded cock to their walks, and visiting them a month
or two after, you find about their head any swollen bunches, hard and blackish at one end,
you may then conclude that in such bunches there are unsound cores, which must be opened and
crushed out with your thumbs; and after this, you must suck out the corruption, and filling
the holes full of fresh butter, you need not doubt a cure.'

A poetical description of a cock-fight, by Dr R. Wild, written at the commencement of the last
century, will give an idea of the 'diversion.'

     'No sooner were the doubtful people set,
     The match made up, and all that would had bet,
     But straight the skilful judges of the play;
     Brought forth their sharp-heel'd warriors, and they
     Were both in linnen bags--as if 'twere meet,
     Before they died, to have their winding-sheet.
     Into the pit they're brought, and being there,
     Upon the stage, the Norfolk Chanticleer
     Looks stoutly at his ne'er before seen foe,
      And like a challenger began to crow,
     And clap his wings, as if he would display
     His warlike colours, which were black and grey.

     'Meantime, the wary Wisbich walks and breathes
     His active body, and in fury wreathes
     His comely crest, and often with a sound,
     He whets his angry beak upon the ground.
     This done, they meet, not like that coward breed
     Of Aesop; these can better fight than feed:
     They scorn the dunghill; 'tis their only prize
     TO DIG FOR PEARLS WITHIN EACH OTHER'S EYES.

     'They fought so nimbly that 'twas hard to know,
     E'en to the skill'd, whether they fought or no;
     If that the blood which dyed the fatal floor
     Had not borne witness of 't.  Yet fought they more;
     As if each wound were but a spur to prick
     Their fury forward.  Lightning's not more quick,
     Or red, than were their eyes: 'twas hard to know
     Whether 'twas blood or anger made them so.
     I'm sure they had been out had they not stood
     More safe by being fenced in with blood.

     Thus they vied blows; but yet (alas!) at length,
     Altho' their courage was full tried, their strength
     And blood began to ebb.

     Their wings, which lately at each blow they clapp'd
     (As if they did applaud themselves), now flapp'd.
     And having lost th' advantage of the heel,
     Drunk with each other's blood, they only reel.
     From either eyes such drops of blood did fall
     As if they wept them for their funeral.
     And yet they fain would fight; they came so near,
     Methought they meant into each other's ear
     TO WHISPER WOUNDS; and when they could not rise,
     They lay and look'd blows into each other's eyes.

     But now the tragic part!  After this fit,
     When Norfolk cock had got the best of it,
     And Wisbich lay a dying, so that none,
     Tho' sober, but might venture Seven to One;
     Contracting, like a dying taper, all
     His strength, intending with the blow to fall,
     He struggles up, and having taken wind,
     Ventures a blow, and strikes the other blind!

     'And now poor Norfolk, having lost his eyes,
     Fights only guided by antipathies:
     With him, alas! the proverb holds not true--
     The blows his eyes ne'er saw his heart most rue.
     At length, by chance, he stumbled on his foe,
     Not having any power to strike a blow.
     He falls upon him with his wounded head,
     And makes his conqueror's wings his feather-bed;
     Where lying sick, his friends were very chary
     Of him, and fetch'd in haste a Pothecary;
     But all in vain!  His body did so blister
     That 'twas incapable of any glyster;
     Wherefore, at length, opening his fainting bill,
     He call'd a scriv'ner and thus made his Will.

     'IMPRIMIS--Let it never be forgot,
     My body freely I bequeath to th' pot,
     Decently to be boil'd.
     ****
      ITEM: Executors I will have none
     But he that on my side laid Seven to One;
     And, like a gentleman that he may live,
     To him, and to his heirs, my COMB I give,
     Together with my brains, that all may know
     That oftentimes his brains did use to crow.
     ****
     To him that 's dull I do my SPURS impart,
     And to the coward I bequeath my HEART.
     To ladies that are light, it is my will
     My FEATHERS shall be given; and for my BILL
     I'd give 't a tailor, but it is so short,
     That I'm afraid he'll rather curse me for 't:
     ****
     Lastly, because I feel my life decay,
     I yield and give to Wisbich COCK THE DAY!'(70)

(70) The passages left out in the Will, as marked by asterisks, though witty, are rather too
gross for modern eyes.

To quote from Pegge once more:--What aggravates the reproach and disgrace upon us Englishmen,
are those species of fighting which are called--"the battle royal and the Welsh main"--known
nowhere in the world, as I think, but here; neither in China, nor in Persia, nor in Malacca,
nor among the savage tribes of America. These are scenes so bloody as almost to be too shocking
to relate; and yet as many may not be acquainted with the horrible nature of them, it may be
proper, for the excitement of our aversion and detestation, to describe them in a few words.

'In the battle royal, an unlimited number of fowls are pitted; and after they have slaughtered
one another, for the diversion (dii boni!) of the otherwise generous and humane Englishman,
the single surviving bird is to be esteemed the victor, and carries away the prize. The Welsh
main consists, we will suppose, of sixteen pairs of cocks; of these the sixteen conquerors
are pitted a second time; and, lastly, the two conquerors of these are pitted a fifth time;
so that (incredible barbarity!) thirty-one cocks are sure to be most inhumanly murdered for
the sport and pleasure, the noise and nonsense, nay, I may say the profane cursing and swearing,
of those who have the effrontery to call themselves, with all these bloody doings, and with
all this impiety about them--Christians!' Moreover, this ungenerous diversion was the bane
and destruction of thousands, who thus dissipated their patrimonial fortunes. That its attractions
were irresistible is evident from the difficulty experienced in suppressing the practice. Down
to a very recent date cock-fighting was carried on in secret,--the police now and then breaking
into the secret pits, dispersing and chasing a motley crew of noblemen, gentlemen, and 'the
scum of rascaldom.'

The practice is very far from having died out; mains are still fought in various parts of the
country; but of course the greatest precautions are taken to insure secrecy and to prevent
the interference of the police.

In connection with cock-fighting I remember a horrible incident that occurred in the West Indies.
A gentleman who was passionately fond of the sport, and prided himself on the victories of
his cocks, had the misfortune to see one of his birds so terribly wounded in the first onset
that, although not killed, it was impossible for it to continue the fight. His rage at the
mishap knew no bounds, and he vented it madly on the poor creature. He roasted it alive--standing
by and hearing its piteous cries. In the midst of the horrible torture the wretched man became
so excited that a fit of apoplexy supervened, and he positively expired before the poor bird
at the fire!

CHAPTER XII. THE TURF, HISTORICAL, SOCIAL, MORAL.

It appears that horse-races were customary at public festivals even as early as the times of
the patriarchs. They originated among the eastern nations, who were the first to discover the
physical aptitudes of the noble animal and the spirited emulation of which he is capable. The
Persians, the Greeks, the Romans, in succession, all indulged in the excitement; and it is
a curious fact that the Romans, like the English jockeys of the present day, rode in different
colours.

Horse-racing began very early in England. Fitz-Stephen, who wrote in the time of Henry VIII.,
mentions the delight taken by the citizens of London in the diversion. In the reign of Queen
Elizabeth it appears to have greatly flourished, and to have been carried to such an excess
as to have ruined many of the nobility.

The celebrated George, Earl of Cumberland, is said to have wasted more of his estates than
any of his ancestors, and principally by his love of the turf and the tilt-yard. In the reign
of James I., Croydon in the South, and Garterly in the North, were celebrated courses. Camden
also states that in 1607 there were meetings near York, and the prize was a small golden bell;
hence the origin of the saying 'bearing off the bell.'

Lord Herbert of Cherbury denounced the practice. 'The exercise,' says this gallant philosopher,
'I do not approve of is running of horses--there being much CHEATING in that kind,--neither
do I see why a brave man should delight in a creature whose chief use is to help him to run
away.' As far as the cheating is concerned, the philosopher may be right, but most assuredly
his views of the horse do no credit to his Lordship's understanding.

It appears that the turf-men of those days went on breeding for shape and speed alone, without
considering 'bottom,' until the reign of Queen Anne; when a public-spirited nobleman left thirteen
plates or purses to be run for, at such places as the Crown should appoint, upon condition
that every horse should carry twelve stone for the best of three heats--four miles. By this
means a stronger horse was raised, who, if he was not good enough upon the race-course, made
a hunter.

The Merry Monarch, Charles II., had given cups or bowls, estimated at one hundred guineas value,
and upon which the names of the winning horses, the winner, and jockey were usually engraved.
William III. added to the plates, as did Queen Anne; but in 1720 George I. discontinued this
royal encouragement to the sport, apparently through sheer meanness. Since that period 'King's
Plates' and 'Queen's Plates' have been paid in specie.

In the reign of Charles I. races were performed in Hyde Park; and until a very recent period
'the Ring' in the Park was the rendezvous of gentlemen's servants, for the purpose of betting
or making up their betting books.

Newmarket races were established by Charles II., in 1667. Epsom, by Mr Parkhurst, in 1711.
Ascot, by the Duke of Cumberland, uncle to George III. Doncaster, by Colonel St Leger, in 1778.
Goodwood, by the Duke of Richmond, who died in 1806.

The Jockey Club began in the time of George II. Its latest rules, by which races are regulated,
were enacted in 1828.

Tattersall's, the 'High Change of Horse-flesh,' was established by Richard Tattersall, near
Hyde Park Corner--hence termed 'The Corner'--in 1766, for the sale of horses. The lease of
the ground having expired, the new premises at Brompton were erected, and opened for business,
in 1803.

On the accession of Queen Victoria the Royal stud was sold for L16,476, in Oct., 1837.(71)

(71) Haydon, Book of Dates.

Among the distinguished men who have supported the turf in this country may be mentioned George
IV.(72) and William IV.; the late Duke of York; the Dukes of Richmond, Cleveland, Grafton,
Bedford, and Beaufort; Marquises of Exeter and Westminster; Earls of Glasgow, Stradbrooke,
Wilton, Chesterfield, Eglintoun, Verulam, and Lonsdale; Lords George Bentinck, Foley, Kinnaird,
&c.; and last, though not least, the Right Honourable Charles James Fox. As to the turf, Fox
used always to animadvert on his losses, and repeatedly observed--that 'his horses had as much
bottom as other people's, but that they were such slow, good ones that they never went fast
enough to tire themselves.' He had, however, the gratification of experiencing some few exceptions
to this imaginary rule. In April, 1772, he was so lucky at Newmarket as to win nearly L16,000--the
greater part of which he got by betting against the celebrated Pincher, who lost the match
by only half a neck. The odds at STARTING were two to one on the losing horse. At the spring
meeting at Newmarket, in 1789, Fox is said to have won not less than L50,000; and at the October
meeting, at the same place, the following year, he sold two of his horses--Seagull and Chanticleer--for
4400 guineas. In the course of 1788 Fox and the Duke of Bedford won 8000 guineas between them
at the Newmarket spring meeting, and during these races Fox and Lord Barrymore had a heavy
match, which was given as a dead heat, and the bets were off.

(72) For some period previous to 1790, George IV. had patronized horse-racing and pugilism;
but in that year, having attended a prize fight in which one of the boxers was killed, he ceased
to support the ring, declaring that he would never be present at such a scene of murder again;
and in 1791 he disposed of his stud, on account of some apparently groundless suspicion being
attached to his conduct with regard to a race, in the event of which he had little or no real
interest.

On coming into office with Lord North, in 1783, Mr Fox sold his horses, and erased his name
from several of the clubs of which he was a member. It was not long, however, before he again
purchased a stud, and in October he attended the Newmarket meeting. The king's messenger was
obliged to appear on the course, to seek one of the ministers of England among the sportsmen
on the heath, in order to deliver despatches upon which perhaps the fate of the country might
have depended. The messenger on these occasions had his badge of office, the greyhound, not
liking that the world should know that the king's adviser was amusing himself at Newmarket,
when he should have been serving him in the metropolis. But Charles Fox preferred the betting
rooms to Downing Street.

Again, in the year 1790, his horse Seagull won the Oatlands stakes at Ascot, of 100 guineas
(19 subscribers), beating the Prince of Wales's Escape, Serpent, and several of the very best
horses of that year--to the great mortification of His Royal Highness, who immediately matched
Magpie against him, to run four days afterwards, two miles, for 500 guineas. This match, on
which immense sums were depending, was won with ease by Seagull. At this period Lord Foley
and Mr Fox were confederates. In those days the plates averaged from L50 to L100.

Lord Foley, who died in 1793, entered upon the turf with a clear estate of L1800 a year, and
L100,000 ready money, which was considerably diminished by his losses at Newmarket, Ascot,
and Epsom.

The race-horse of this country excels those of the whole world, not only for speed, but bottom.
There is a great difference, however, between the present race and that of fifty or sixty years
ago; for in those days four-mile heats were the fashion. The sporting records at the end of
the last century give the following exploits of horses of that and previous periods.

Childers, known by the name of Flying Childers, the property of the Duke of Devonshire, was
looked upon as the fleetest horse that ever was bred. He was never beaten; the sire of this
celebrated horse was an Arabian.

Dorimont, belonging to Lord Ossory, won prizes to the amount of L13,360.

Eclipse was allowed to be the fastest horse that ever ran in England since the time of Childers.
After winning largely for his owner, he covered, by subscription, forty mares at 30 guineas
each, or 1200 guineas.

Highflyer, by King Herod, was the best horse of his day; was never beaten, nor paid forfeit
but once. His winnings amounted to above L9000, although he only ran as a three, four, and
five years old.

Matchem stood high both as a racer and as the sire of many of our most favourite horses. As
a stallion he realized for his master more than L12,000. He died in 1781, at the advanced age
of thirty-three.

Shark won a cup value 120 guineas, eleven hogsheads of claret, and above L16,000 in plates,
matches, and forfeits.(73)

(73) Lord William Lennox, Merrie England.

Among recent celebrities must be mentioned Lord Stamford, who is said to have engaged Jemmy
Grimshaw, a light-weighted jockey, at a salary of L1000 a year.

 The most astounding 'event' of late years was that of 1867, when
the horse Hermit--previously represented as being in an unfit condition
even to run, won the race--to the unspeakable ruin of very many, and
inflicting on the late Marquis of Hastings the enormous loss of about
L100,000, which, however, in spite of unseemly rumours and, it is said,
hopes of that nobleman's ruin, was honourably paid, to the day and hour.

But if ruin did not immediately come upon the young marquis, still the wound was deadly, inflicted
as though with the ferocity of a demon. In his broken health and rapid decay sympathy was not
withheld from him; and when a premature death put an end to his sufferings, and was speedily
followed by the breaking up of his establishment and the dispersion of his ancestral effects,
most men felt that he had, perhaps, atoned for his errors and indiscretions, whilst all united
in considering him another unfortunate victim added to the long list of those who have sacrificed
their fortune, health, and honour to the Gambling Moloch presiding over the Turf of England.(74)

(74) The 'Odds' or probabilities of horse racing are explained in chapter VIII., in which the
entire 'Doctrine of Chances' is discussed.

Such are the leading facts of horse-racing in England. One cannot help observing that the sturdy
strength and muscular exertions of an Olympic charioteer of old exhibit a striking contrast
to the spider-like form and emaciated figure of a Newmarket jockey.

    'Who in a race would reach the long'd-for goal,
     Must suffer much, do much, in youth, indeed,
     Must SWEAT and fag.'

This is literally true respecting the English jockey, whose attenuated form is accounted for
in the following dialogue in an old work entitled 'Newmarket, or an Essay on the Turf,' 1771.

'Stop, stop, OLD GENTLEMAN! I desire to speak a word to you; pray which is the way to----.'

'I beg, sir, you will not interrupt me. I am a Newmarket jockey--am to ride in a few days a
match, upon which there is a great deal depending, and I am now PREPARING.'

'Oh, I see now, you are a YOUNG man, instead of that old one for whom I mistook you by your
wrappings; but pray, explain.'

'Why, your Honour must know that we jockeys, in order to bring ourselves down to the weight
required for the horses we are to ride, sweat under a load of flannel wrapped about us beneath
coats and great coats, and walk two or three miles in the heat of summer, till we are ready
to faint under our burden.'

'Indeed! Why, you go through a deal!'

'Ah, sir, a great deal indeed! Why, we sometimes lie hours and hours between two feather-beds--to
melt away our extraordinary weight.'

'But will you give me leave to examine your present dress? Hum! Two flannel waistcoats, a thick
cloth coat, a Bath surtout! It is a vast weight to carry this warm weather. I only hope you
won't sink under it.'

'Never fear, sir, I do not doubt but I shall do very well.'

The rewards of victory were as plain and simple in the Grecian games as they were distinguishing
and honourable. A garland of palm, or laurel, or parsley, or pine leaves, served to adorn the
brow of the fortunate victor, whilst his name stood a chance of being transmitted to posterity
in the strains of some lofty Pindar. The rewards of modern days are indeed more substantial
and solid, being paid in weighty gold or its equivalent, no matter whether obtained by the
ruin of others, while the fleet coursers and their exulting proprietors stand conspicuous in
the list of the Racing Calendar. The ingenious and ironical author of 'Newmarket, or an Essay
on the Turf,' in the year 1771, bestowed the following titles and honours on the most famous
horse of the day--Kelly's Eclipse:--'Duke of Newmarket, Marquis of Barnet, Earl of Epsom and
York, Viscount Canterbury, Baron Eclipse of Mellay; Lord of Lewes, Salisbury, Ipswich, and
Northampton; Comptroller-General of the race-grounds, and Premier Racer of All England.' To
bear coat of arms--'A Pegasus argent on a field verd;--the supporters--two Englishmen in ermined
robes and ducal coronets;--the crest--a purse, Or;--the motto--"Volat ocior Euro." '(75)

(75) 'He flies swifter than the east wind.'

Again, in the exhibition of those useful and honourable Olympic pastimes of old, the cause
of morality was not overlooked:--there was in them a happy union of utility, pleasure, and
virtue. A spotless life and unblameable manners, a purity of descent by being born in wedlock
through several generations, and a series of creditable relations, were indispensable qualifications
of a candidate on the Olympic turf. It is true, there is at least as much attention paid to
purity and faultlessness on the plains of Newmarket; but the application is to the blood and
pedigree of the horse, not of his rider.

Nay, it was, and is, notorious that the word 'jockey' has acquired the meaning of 'to trick,'
'to cheat,' as appears in all our dictionaries and in common parlance. What is the inference
from this but that the winning of races is no absolute proof of the superiority of the horse--for
whose improvement racing is said to be encouraged; but rather the result of a secret combination
of expedients or arrangements--in a word, jockeying, that is, cheating, tricking. The only
'moral' character required in the jockey is the determination to do whatsoever may be agreed
upon or determined by those who are willing and able to give 'a consideration' for the convenient
accommodation.

But it is, or was, the associations, the inevitable concomitants, of the turf and racing that
stamp it, not only as something questionable, but as a bane and infamy to the nation; and if
there is one spot more eminently distinguished for a general rendezvous of fraud and gambling,
that place is Newmarket.

The diversions of these plains have proved a decoy to many a noble and ingenuous mind, caught
in the snares laid to entrap youth and inexperience. Newmarket was a wily labyrinth of loss
and gain, a fruitful field for the display of gambling abilities, the school of the sharping
crew, the academy of the Greeks, the unfathomable gulf that absorbed princely fortunes.

The amusements of the turf were in all other places intermixed with a variety of social diversions,
which were calculated to promote innocent mirth and gaiety. The breakfastings, the concerts,
the plays, the assemblies, attracted the circle of female beauty, enlivened the scene, engaged
the attention of gentlemen, and thus prevented much of the evil contagion and destruction of
midnight play. But encouragement to the GAMBLER of high and low degree was the very charter
of Newmarket. Every object that met the eye was encompassed with gambling--from the aristocratic
Rouge et Noir, Roulette, and Hazard, down to Thimble-rig, Tossing, and Tommy Dodd. Every hour
of the day and night was beset with gambling diversified; in short, gambling must occupy the
whole man, or he was lost to the sport and spirit of the place. The inhumanity of the cock-pit,
the iniquitous vortex of the Hazard table, employed each leisure moment from the race, and
either swallowed up the emoluments of the victorious field, or sank the jockey still deeper
in the gulf of ruin.

The common people of England have been stigmatized (and perhaps too justly) for their love
of bloody sports and cruel diversions; cock-fighting, bull-baiting, boxing, and the crowded
attendance on executions, are but too many proofs of this sanguinary turn. But why the imputation
should lie at the door of the vulgar alone may well be questioned; for while the star of nobility
and dignified distinction was seen to glitter at a cock-match or on a boxing-stage, or near
the 'Ring'--where its proprietor was liable to be elbowed by their highnesses of grease and
soot, and to be hemmed in by knights of the post and canditates for Tyburn tree--when this
motley group alike were fixed in eager attention, alike betted on and enjoyed each blood-drawing
stroke of the artificial spur, or blow of the fist well laid in--what distinction was to be
made between peer and plebeian, except in derogation of the former?

The race-course at Newmarket always presented a rare assemblage of grooms, gamblers, and greatness.

'See, side by side, the jockey and Sir John Discuss the important point of six to one; For,
O my Muse! the deep-felt bliss how dear--How great the pride to gain a jockey's ear!'(76)

(76) Wharton's Newmarket.

Newmarket fame was an object of ambition sought by the most distinguished personages.

'Go on, brave youths, till in some future age Whips shall become the senatorial badge; Till
England see her thronging senators Meet all at Westminster in boots and spurs; See the whole
House with mutual phrensy mad, Her patriots all in leathern breeches clad; Of bets for taxes
learnedly debate, And guide with equal reins a steed or state.'(77)

(77) Ibid.

And then at the winning-post what motley confusion.

       --------------------'A thousand tongues
     Jabber harsh jargon from a thousand lungs.
            ****
     Dire was the din--as when in caverns pent,
     Hoarse Boreas storms and Eurus works for vent,
     The aeolian brethren heave the labouring earth,
     And roar with elemental strife for birth.'(78)

(78) 'The Gamblers.' Horace had said long before--Tanto cum strepitu ludi spectantur, 'So great
a noise attends the games!

The frauds and stratagems of wily craft which once passed current at Newmarket, surpassed everything
that can be imagined at the present day. The intruding light of the morning was execrated by
the nightly gamblers.

The turf-events of every succeeding year verify the lament of the late Lord Derby:--

'The secession from the turf of men who have station and character, and the accession of men
who have neither, are signs visible to the dullest apprehension. The once national sport of
horse-racing is being degraded to a trade in which it is difficult to perceive anything either
sportive or national. The old pretence about the improvement of the breed of horses has become
a delusion, too stale for jesting.'

Nothing is more incontestable than the fact that the breed of English horses has not been really
improved, certainly not by racing and its requirements. It has been truly observed that 'what
is called the turf is merely a name for the worst kind of gambling. The men who engage in it
are as far as possible from any ideal of sporting men. It is a grim joke, in fact, to speak
of "sport" at all in their connection. The turf to them is but a wider and more vicious sort
of tapis vert--the racing but the rolling of the balls--the horses but animated dice. It is
difficult to name a single honest or manly instinct which is propagated by the turf as it is,
or which does not become debased and vitiated by the association. From a public recreation
the thing has got to be a public scandal. Every year witnesses a holocaust of great names sacrificed
to the insatiable demon of horse-racing--ancient families ruined, old historic memories defiled
at the shrine of this vulgarest and most vicious of popular passions.'

Among those who have sought to reform the turf is Sir Joseph Hawley, who last year succeeded
in procuring the abolition of two-year-old races before the 1st of May. He is now endeavouring,
to go much further, and has given notice of a motion for the appointment of a committee of
the Jockey Club to consider the question of the whole condition of the turf.

There can be no doubt, that, if Sir Joseph Hawley's propositions, as announced, be adopted,
even in a modified form, they would go to the very root of the evil, and purify the turf of
the worst of the present scandals.

It would require a volume, or perhaps many volumes, to treat of the subject of the present
chapter--the Turf, Historical, Social, Moral; but I must now leave this topic, of such terrible
national interest, to some other conscientious writer capable of 'doing justice' to the theme,
in all its requirements.

CHAPTER XIII. FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS (FOR LADIES).

It must be admitted that this practice--however absurd in its object and application--does
great credit to human ingenuity. Once admitting the possibility of such conjuring, it is impossible
to deny the propriety of the reasonings deduced from the turning up, the collocation, or the
juxta-position of the various cards, when the formalities of the peculiar shuffle and cut required
have been duly complied with by the consulter.

The cards are first shuffled ad libitum, then cut three different times, and laid on a table,
face upwards, one by one, in the form of a circle, or more frequently nine in a row. If the
conjurer is a man he chooses one of the kings as his representative; if a woman, she selects
one of the queens. This is on the supposition that persons are consulting for themselves; otherwise
it is the fortune-teller who selects the representative card. Then the queen of the chosen
king, or the king of the chosen queen, stands for a husband or wife, mistress or lover, of
the party whose fortune is to be told. The knave of the suit represents the most intimate person
of their family.

The ninth card every way, that is, counted from the representative, is of the greatest consequence,
and that interval comprises the 'circle' of the inquirer, for good or for evil.

Now, all the cards have had assigned to them arbitrary, but plausible, characteristics. Thus,
the ace of clubs (that suit representing originally the 'fortunate husbandmen') promises great
wealth, much prosperity in life, and tranquillity of mind--if it turns up within your circle,
as before mentioned. King of clubs announces a man of dark complexion who is humane, upright,
&c., in fact, just the man for a husband. Queen of clubs is equally propitious as the emblem
of a dark lady who would prove a paragon wife. Knave of clubs, a jolly good friend in every
way. Ten of clubs always flurries the heart of the inquirer--especially if 'hard up'--for it
denotes riches speedily forthcoming from an unexpected quarter--which is usually the case in
such circumstances; but then it also threatens the loss of some dear friend--which, however,
cannot signify much if you get 'the money.' Seven of clubs promises the most brilliant fortune,
and the most exquisite bliss this world can afford; but then you are ungallantly warned that
you must 'beware of the opposite sex'--which seems a contradiction in terms--for how call 'the
most exquisite bliss this world can afford' be secured without the aid of 'the opposite sex'?
Five of clubs is the main point of maid-servants, young girls from the country, governesses,
in short, of all the floating womanhood of the land--for 'it declares that you will shortly
be married to a person who will--MEND your CIRCUMSTANCES.' The trey of clubs is scarcely less
exhilarating, for it promises that you will be married three times, and each time to a wealthy
person. On the whole the suit of clubs is very lucky, but, very appropriately, the deuce thereof
portends some 'unfortunate opposition to your favourite inclination, which will disturb you.'(80)

(80) According to other authorities, the ace of clubs means a letter; the nine, danger caused
by drunkenness; the eight, danger from covetousness; the seven, a prison, and danger from the
opposite sex; the six, competence by hard-working industry; the five, a happy but NOT wealthy
marriage; the four, danger of misfortunes caused by inconstancy or capricious temper; the trey,
quarrels.

The suit of diamonds is by no means so satisfactory as the gem of a name would seem to indicate;
but perhaps we must remember that this suit represented originally the COMMERCIAL CLASSES,
and that probably this divination by cards was invented by some proud ARISTOCRAT in those times
when tradesmen did not stand so high as they now do in morality, uprightness, &c. The ace of
diamonds puts you on the qui vive for the postman; it means a LETTER. It is only to be hoped
that it is not one of those nasty things, yellow outside and blue within--a dun from some importunate
butcher, baker, grocer, or--tailor. The king of diamonds shows a revengeful, fiery, obstinate
fellow of very fair complexion in your circle; the queen of diamonds is nothing but a gay coquette,
of the same complexion as the king, and not 'over-virtuous'--a very odd phrase in use for the
absence of virtue altogether; the knave of diamonds is a selfish, impracticable fellow; ten
of diamonds is one of the few exceptions to the evil omens of this suit, it promises a country
husband or a wife with great wealth and many children--the number of the latter being indicated
by the next card to it; it also signifies a purse of gold--but where? Oh, where? Nine of diamonds
indicates simply a vagabond, full of vexation and disappointment; eight of diamonds shows an
enemy to marriage, who may, however, 'marry late,' and find himself in a terrible 'fix;' seven
of diamonds is worse still, portending all the horrors of the divorce court and the bankruptcy
court--conjugal profligacy and extravagance; six of diamonds means early marriage and premature
widowhood, and a second marriage, which will probably be worse; five of diamonds is the next
exception to the misery of this suit, it promises 'good children, who will KEEP YOU FROM GRIEF'--at
best, however, only a makeshift; four of diamonds is as bad as seven of diamonds--portending
the same results; the trey of diamonds threatens all manner of strife, law-suits, &c., promises
a vixen for a wife, to your great domestic misery; the deuce of diamonds concludes the catalogue
of wretchedness with the assurance that you will fall in love early, that your parents will
not approve of your choice, and if you marry, notwithstanding, that they will hardly ever forgive
you.(81)

(81) Otherwise the ace of diamonds means a wedding ring, the king, a fiery but a placable person,
of very fair complexion; the ten, money, success in honourable business; the eight, a happy
prudent marriage, though late in life; the five, unexpected and most likely good news; the
four, a faithless friend, a betrayed secret.

The suit of hearts, as previously explained, represented originally the ecclesiastical order,
the jolly monks, churchmen of all degrees; how far the indications tally must be left to the
ingenious reader to determine. The ace of hearts means feasting and pleasure; but if attended
by spades, it foretells quarrelling; if by hearts it shows affection and friendship; if by
diamonds, you will hear of some absent friend; if by clubs, of merry-making: the king of hearts
denotes a not VERY fair man, good-natured, but hot and hasty individual, and very amorous;
the queen of hearts promises a lady of golden locks (not necessarily 'carrots'), faithful and
affectionate; the knave of hearts is a particular friend, and great attention must be paid
to the card that stands next to him, as from it alone you can judge whether the person it represents
will favour your inclination or not, because he is always the dearest friend or nearest relation
of the consulting party; the ten of hearts shows good nature and many children, and is a corrective
of the bad tidings of the cards that stand next to it; and if its neighbouring cards are of
good import, it ascertains and confirms their value: nine of hearts promises wealth, grandeur,
and high esteem; if cards that are unfavourable stand near it, you may expect disappointments;
and the reverse, if favourable cards follow; if these last be at a small distance, expect to
retrieve your losses, whether of peace or goods: eight of hearts signifies drinking and feasting;
seven of hearts shows a fickle and unfaithful person, vicious, spiteful, malicious; six of
hearts promises a generous, open, credulous disposition, often a dupe; if this card comes before
your king or queen (as the case may be) YOU will be the dupe; if after, you will get the upper
hand: five of hearts portends a wavering, unsteady, unreliable individual of either sex: four
of hearts indicates late marriage from 'delicacy in making a choice:' trey of hearts is rather
a 'poser;' 'it shows that your own impudence will greatly contribute to your experiencing the
ill-will of others:' deuce of hearts promises extraordinary success and good fortune, though,
perhaps, you may have to wait long for 'the good time coming.'(82)

(82) Or,--the ace of hearts denotes the house of the consulter; the queen, a lady not VERY
fair; seven, many good friends; six, honourable courtship; five, a present; four, domestic
troubles caused by jealousy.

The suit of spades originally represented the NOBILITY, and the following are its significances
in fortune-telling. The ace of spades wholly relates to love-affairs, without specifying whether
lawful or unlawful--a pretty general occupation of the 'nobility,' of course; it also denotes
death when the card is upside down: the king of spades shows a man ambitious and successful
at court, or with some great man who will have it in his power to advance him--but, let him
beware of the reverse! the queen of spades shows that a person will be corrupted by the rich
of both sexes; if she is handsome great attempts will be made on her virtue: the knave of spades
shows a fellow that requires much rousing, although 'quite willing to serve you' with his influence
and patronage--like many a member in the case of his importunate constituents: the ten of spades
is a card of caution, counteracting the good effect of the card near you: the nine of spades
is positively the worst card in the whole pack; it portends dangerous sickness, total loss
of fortune, cruel calamities, endless dissension in your family, and death at last--I hope
you may never see it near you: the eight of spades indicates much opposition from your FRIENDS,
or those you imagine to be such; if this card comes near you, leave your plan and adopt another:
seven of spades shows the loss of a most valuable, influential friend, whose death will plunge
you in very great distress and poverty: the six of spades announces a mediocrity of fortune,
and great uncertainty in your undertakings: the five of spades is rather doubtful as to success
or a rise in life; but it promises luck in the choice of your companion for life, although
it shows that your own temper is rather sullen--and so to get a 'fond creature' to take care
of you, with such a temper, is a mighty great blessing, and more than you deserve: the four
of spades shows sickness speedily, and injury of fortune by friends: the trey of spades shows
that you will be fortunate in marriage, but that your inconstant temper will make you unhappy:
the deuce of spades is the UNDERTAKER, at last; it positively shows a COFFIN, but who it is
for must depend entirely on the cards that are near it.(83)

(83) Or,--the ace of spades denotes death, malice, a duel, a general misfortune; the king,
a man of very dark complexion, ambitious, and unscrupulous; the queen, a very dark-complexioned
woman of malicious disposition, or a widow; the knave, a lawyer, a person to be shunned; the
ten, disgrace, crime, imprisonment, death on the scaffold; the eight, great danger from imprudence;
the six, a child, to the unmarried a card of caution; the five, great danger from giving way
to bad temper; the trey, a journey by land,--tears; the deuce, a removal.

'The nine of hearts is termed the wish card. After the general fortune has been told, a separate
and different manipulation is performed, to learn if the pryer into futurity will obtain a
particular wish; and from the position of the wish card in the pack the required answer is deduced.

'The foregoing is merely the alphabet of the art; the letters, as it were, of the sentences
formed by the various combinations of the cards. A general idea only can be given here of the
manner in which those prophetic sentences are formed. As before stated, if a married woman
consults the cards, the king of her own suit, or complexion, represents her husband; but with
single women, the lover, either in esse or posse, is represented by his own colour; and all
cards, when representing persons, lose their own normal significations. There are exceptions,
however, to these general rules. A man, no matter what his complexion, if he wear uniform,
even if he be the negro cymbal-player in a regimental band, can be represented by the king
of diamonds:--note, the dress of policemen and volunteers is not considered as uniform. On
the other hand, a widow, even if she be an albiness, can be represented only by the queen of
spades.

'The ace of hearts always denoting the house of the person consulting the decrees of fate,
some general rules are applicable to it. Thus the ace of clubs signifying a letter, its position,
either before or after the ace of hearts, shows whether the letter is to be sent to or from
the house. The ace of diamonds when close to the ace of hearts foretells a wedding in the house;
but the ace of spades betokens sickness and death.

'The knaves represent the thoughts of their respective kings and queens, and consequently the
thoughts of the persons whom those kings and queens represent, in accordance with their complexions.

For instance, a young lady of a rather but not decidedly dark complexion, represented by the
queen of clubs, when consulting the cards, may be shocked to find her fair lover (the king
of diamonds) flirting with a wealthy widow (the queen of spades, attended by the ten of diamonds),
but she will be reassured by finding his thoughts (the knave of diamonds) in combination with
a letter (ace of clubs), a wedding ring (ace of diamonds), and her house (the ace of hearts);
clearly signifying that, though he is actually flirting with the rich widow, he is, nevertheless,
thinking of sending a letter, with an offer of marriage, to the young lady herself. And look,
where are her own thoughts, represented by the knave of clubs; they are far away with the old
lover, that dark man (king of spades) who, as is plainly shown by his being attended by the
nine of diamonds, is prospering at the Australian diggings or elsewhere. Let us shuffle the
cards once more, and see if the dark man, at the distant diggings, ever thinks of his old flame,
the club-complexioned young lady in England. No! he does not. Here are his thoughts (the knave
of spades), directed to this fair, but rather gay and coquettish, woman (the queen of diamonds);
they are separated but by a few hearts, one of them, the sixth (honourable courtship), showing
the excellent understanding that exists between them. Count, now, from the six of hearts to
the ninth card from it, and lo! it is a wedding ring (the ace of diamonds); they will be married
before the expiration of a twelvemonth.'

Such is the scheme of fortune-telling by cards, as propounded in the learned disquisitions
of the adepts, and Betty, or Martha, or her mistress can consult them by themselves according
to the established method--without exposing themselves to the extortionate cunning of the wandering
gipsies or the permanent crone of the city or village. They may just as well believe what comes
out according to their own manipulation as by that of the heartless cheats in question. Your
ordinary fortune-tellers are not over-particular, being only anxious to tell you exactly what
you want to know. So if a black court card gets in juxta-position with and looking towards
a red court card, the fair consulter's representative, then it is evident that some 'dark gentleman'
is 'after her;' and vice versa; and if a wife, suspecting her husband's fidelity, consults
the cards, the probability is that her SUSPICIONS will receive 'confirmation strong' from the
fact that 'some dark woman,' that is, a black queen, 'is after her husband;' or vice versa,
if a husband consults the card-woman respecting the suspicions he may have reason to entertain
with regard to his 'weaker rib' or his 'intended.'

It need scarcely be observed that fortune-tellers in any place are 'posted up' in all information
or gossip in the neighbourhood; and therefore they readily turn their knowledge to account
in the answers they give to anxious inquirers.

Apart from this, however, the interpretations are so elaborately comprehensive that 'something'
MUST come true in the revelations; and we all know that in such matters that something coming
to pass will far outweigh the non-fulfilment of other fatal ordinations. Of course no professional
fortune-teller would inform an old man that some dark or fair man was 'after' his old woman;
but nothing is more probable than the converse, and much family distraction has frequently
resulted from such perverse revelation of 'the cards.' In like manner your clever fortune-teller
will never promise half-a-dozen children to 'an old lady,' but she will very probably hold
forth that pleasant prospect--if such it be--to a buxom lass of seventeen or eighteen--especially
in those counties of England where the ladies are remarkable for such profuse bounty to their
husbands.

As a general proposition, it matters very little what may be the means of vaticination or prediction--whether
cards, the tea-grounds in the cup, &c.,--all POSSIBLE events have a degree of probability of
coming to pass, which may vary from 20 to 1 down to a perfect equality of chance; and the clever
fortune-teller, who may be mindful of her reputation, will take care to regulate her promises
or predictions according to that proposition.

Many educated ladies give their attention to the cards, and some have acquired great proficiency
in the art. On board a steamer sailing for New York, on one occasion a French lady among the
saloon-passengers undertook to amuse the party by telling their fortunes. A Scotch young gentleman,
who was going out to try and get a commission in the Federal army, had his fortune told. Among
the announcements, as interpreted by the lady, was the rather unpleasant prospect that two
constables would be 'after' him! We all laughed heartily at the odd things that came out for
everybody, and then the thing was forgotten; the steamer reached her destination; and all the
companions of the pleasant voyage separated and went their different ways.

Some months after, I met the young gentleman above alluded to, and among the various adventures
which he had had, he mentioned the following. He said that shortly after his arrival in New
York he presented a ten-dollar note which he had received, at a drinking-house, that it was
declared a forged note, and that he was given into custody; but that the magistrate, on being
conclusively convinced of his respectability, dismissed the charge without even taking the
trouble to establish the alleged fact that the note was a forgery. So far so good; but on the
following morning, whilst at breakfast at his hotel, another police-officer pounced upon him,
and led him once more on the same charge to another magistrate, who, however, dismissed the
case like the other.(84)

(84) It appears that this is allowable in New York. The explanation of the perverse prosecution
was, that the young gentleman did not 'fee' the worthy policemen, according to custom in such
cases.

Thereupon I said--'Why, the French lady's card-prediction on board came to pass! Don't you
remember what she said about two constables being "after you"?'

'Now I remember it,' he said; 'but I had positively forgotten all about it. Well, she was right
there--but I am sorry to say that nothing else she PROMISED has come to pass.'

Doubtless all other consulters of the cards and of astrologers can say the same, although all
would not wisely conclude that a system must be erroneous which misleads human hope in the
great majority of cases. In fact, like the predictions in our weather-almanacks, the fortune-teller's
announcements are only right BY CHANCE, and wrong ON PRINCIPLE.

FORTUNE-TELLING FORTY YEARS AGO, OR, THE STORY OF MARTHA CARNABY.

A certain Martha Carnaby, a tidy but rather 'unsettled' servant girl, some forty years ago
went to an old fortune-teller, to have her fortune told, and the doings on both sides came
out as follows, before the magistrate at the Bow Street police-court. The fortune-teller was
'had up,' as usual, 'for obtaining money and other valuables' from the former.

Miss Martha Carnaby said that this celebrated old fortune-teller had first gained her acquaintance
by attending at her master's house, before the family had risen, and urging her to have her
fortune told. At length, after much persuasion, she consented; but the fortune-teller told
her that before the secrets of her future destiny were revealed, she must deposit in her hands
some little token, TO BIND THE CHARM, which the old lady said she would invoke the same evening--'if
I would call at her lodgings, and also cast my nativity by her cards, and tell me every particular
of the future progress of my life. I accordingly gave her what money I had; but that, she told
me, was not enough to buy the ingredients with which she was to compose the charm. I at length
gave her four silver teaspoons and two tablespoons, which she put carefully in her pocket;
and then asked me to let her look at my hand, which I showed her. She told me there were many
lines in it which clearly indicated great wealth and happiness; and, after telling her my name
was Martha Carnaby, she took her departure, and I agreed to meet her at her lodgings the same
evening. Agreeably to her directions, I dressed myself in as fashionable a manner as I could,
because I WAS TO SEE MY SWEETHEART THROUGH A MIRROR, AND HE WAS TO SEE ME.'

The poor deluded creature then stated that she attended punctually at the hour appointed, at
the old lady's sanctum, and seating herself upon an old chair, beheld with astonishment quite
as much as she bargained for. 'I felt myself,' said poor Martha, 'on entering the room, all
of a twitter. The old woman was seated in her chair of state, and, reaching down from the mantel-piece
a pack of cards, began, after muttering a few words in a language I could not understand, to
lay them very carefully in her lap; she then foretold that I should get married, but not to
the person in our house, as I expected, but to another young man, whom, if I could afford a
trifle, she would show me through her MATRIMONIAL MIRROR. To this I consented, and she desired
me to shut my eyes and keep my face covered while she made the necessary preparations; and
there she kept me, with my face hid in her lap, until I was nearly smothered; when suddenly
she told me to turn round, and look through the mirror, which was seen through a hole in a
curtain, and I saw a young man pass quickly before me, staring me in the face, at which I was
much surprised, she assuring me that he would be my husband. It was then agreed that she was
to call on me the next morning, and return the silver spoons; but, your Worship,' said the
poor girl, 'she never came; and as I was afraid my mistress would soon want them, I asked the
advice of a woman in our neighbourhood, as to what I had better do, and to whom I related all
the circumstances I have told your Worship; when the woman asked me how I could have been such
a fool as to be duped by that old cheat at the bar,--that she was a notorious old woman, that
she had in her employ some young man, who was always hid in the room, to overhear the conversation,
and to run from out of the hiding-place before the mirror; and that I ought to be thankful
I came away as well as I did, as many young girls had been ruined through going to this old
creature; that, from her acquaintance with so many servant girls, she always contrived to get
from them such intelligence as enabled her to answer those questions that might be put to her,
as to the business, name, place of abode, country, and other circumstances of the party applying,
the answering of which always convinced the credulous creatures who went to her, of her great
skill in the art of astrology; and when she was right in her guessing, she always took care
to have it well published.'

Of course, and again, as usual, the magistrate 'hoped it would be a lesson to Martha, and to
all other foolish girls, never to hearken to those infernal, wicked old wretches, the fortune-tellers--many
a girl having lost her character and virtue by listening to their nonsense;' but there have
been hundreds and thousands of such Marthas since then, and no doubt there will be very many
more in future--in spite of the ridiculous exposure of such dupes ever and anon, in courts
of justice and in the columns of the daily papers.

'The art of cartomancy, or divination by playing-cards, dates from an early period of their
obscure history. In the museum of Nantes there is a painting, said to be by Van Eyck, representing
Philippe le Bon, Archduke of Austria, and subsequently King of Spain, consulting a fortune-teller
by cards. This picture cannot be of a later date than the fifteenth century. Then the art was
introduced into England is unknown; probably, however, the earliest printed notice of it in
this country is the following curious story, extracted from Rowland's Judicial Astrology Condemned:--"Cuffe,
an excellent Grecian, and secretary to the Earl of Essex, was told, twenty years before his
death, that he should come to an untimely end, at which Cuffe laughed, and in a scornful manner
entreated the soothsayer to show him in what manner he should come to his end, who condescended
to him, and calling for cards, entreated Cuffe to draw out of the pack any three which pleased
him. He did so, and drew three knaves, and laid them on the table by the wizard's direction,
who then told him, if he desired to see the sum of his bad fortune, to take up those cards.
Cuffe, as he was prescribed, took up the first card, and looking on it, he saw the portraiture
of himself cap-a-pie, having men encompassing him with bills and halberds. Then he took up
the second, and there he saw the judge that sat upon him; and taking up the last card, he saw
Tyburn, the place of his execution, and the hangman, at which he laughed heartily. But many
years after, being condemned, he remembered and declared this prediction."

'The earliest work on cartomancy was written or compiled by one Francesco Marcolini, and printed
at Venice in 1540.'(85)

(85) The Book of Days, Feb. 21. In this work there is a somewhat different account of cartomancy
to that which I have expounded 'on the best authorities' and from practical experience with
the adepts in the art; but, in a matter of such immense importance to ladies of all degrees,
I have thought proper to give, in foot-notes, the differing interpretations of the writer in
the Book of Days, who professes to speak with some authority, not however, I think, superior
to mine, for I have investigated the subject to the utmost.

CHAPTER XIV. AMUSING CARD TRICKS.(86)

(86) These tricks appeared originally in Beeton's Christmas Annual, and are here reproduced
with permission.

Although my work is a history of gambling, in all its horrors, and with all its terrible moral
warnings, I gladly conclude it 'happily,' after the manner of the most pleasing novels and
romances,--namely, by a method of contriving innocent and interesting amusement with cards,
without the 'chance' of encountering the risks, calamities, and disgrace of gambling.

I was led to the investigation of this branch of my subject by the following incident. Being
present at a party when a gentleman performed one of the tricks described, No. 7, the rest
of the company and myself were all much surprised at the result, and urgently requested him
to explain the method of his performance, which, however, he stoutly refused to do, averring
that he would not take L1000 for it. This was so ridiculously provoking that I offered to bet
him L5 that I would discover the method within 24 hours. To my astonishment he declined the
bet, not, however, without a sort of compliment, admitting that I MIGHT do so. He was right;
for, as Edgar Poe averred, no man can invent a puzzle which some other man cannot unravel.
In effect, I called upon him the following day, and performed the trick not only according
to his method, but also by another, equally successful. I have reason to believe that most
of the tricks of my selection had not previously appeared in print; at any rate, I have given
to all of them an exposition which may entitle them to some claim of originality.

PRELIMINARY HINTS.

I. Shuffling, in the simple and inoffensive sense of the expression, is an important point
in all tricks with cards. For the most part, it is only a pretence or dexterous management--keeping
a card or cards in your command whilst seeming to shuffle them into the pack.

Every performer has his method of such shuffling. Some hold the pack perpendicularly with the
left hand, then with the right take a portion of the pack--about one half--and make a show
of shuffling the two parts together edgeways, but, in reality, replace them as they were. With
rapidity of execution every eye is thus deceived.

If a single card is to be held in command, place it at the bottom of the pack, which you hold
in your left, and then, with your right thumb and middle finger, raise and throw successively
portions of the pack, leaving the bottom card in contact with the fingers of the left hand.

With dexterity, any portion of the pack may be shuffled, leaving the remainder just as it was,
by separating it during the process by inserting one or more fingers of the left hand between
it and the portions shuffled.

II. Cutting--not in the sense of bolting at the sight of 'blue,' though that is of consequence
to card-sharpers--is of importance in all card tricks. In many tricks cutting the cards is
only a pretence, as it is necessary for the success of the trick to replace them as they were;
in technical terms, we must 'blow up the cut.'(87)

(87) This is the sauter la coupe referred to in the chapter on the Gaming Clubs, in the account
of the trial of Lord de Ros. See 'Graham's Club.'

There are several ways of performing this sleight-of-hand. The cards being cut, and forming
two lots on the table, smartly snatch up the lot which should be placed on the other, with
the left hand.

This lot being taken up and the hand being in the position shown in the figure, snatch up in
like manner the other lot, and, by a movement of the palm of the hand and the tips of the fingers,
pass the second lot under the first.

The deception of the trick depends upon its dexterity, and this can only be acquired by practice.
But really it may be dispensed with; for it is a curious fact that, in every case when the
cards are cut, you may actually replace them just as they were without being observed by the
spectators--for the simple reason that the ruse is not suspected, especially if their attention
is otherwise engaged with your pointed observations.

The 'gift of the gab' is in this case, as in many others, a very great resource. A striking
remark or bon mot will easily mystify the spectators, and attract their attention from what
you are DOING. Hence all prestidigitators are always well stocked with anecdotes and funny
observations; indeed, they talk incessantly: they speak well, too, and they take care to time
the word accurately with the moment when their fingers act most energetically.

III. To slip a card.--To slip a card is to pretend to take the bottom card of the pack, and
in reality to take the card which precedes it. To perform this feat without detection is a
very simple affair, but it requires practice.

The pack of cards being held in the right hand, advance the left hand--palm upwards--just as
if you were seizing the last card with the middle finger; but, having slightly moistened this
finger with the lips, push back this card, and make it slip under the palm of the right hand,
whilst you seize the preceding card with the thumb and forefinger.

In this manner you may successively draw out several cards besides the last, and only draw
the last as the sixth, seventh, &c., which will serve to effect several interesting tricks
to be explained in the sequel.

IV. To file the card.--To file the card is, when a card has been taken from the pack to pretend
to place it about the middle of the pack, whilst, in reality, you place it at the bottom.

The pack must be held in the left hand, between the thumb and forefinger, so that the three
other fingers be free. One of the middle cards should project a little. Then take the card
to be filed between the forefinger and the middle finger of the right hand; advance the right
hand from the left, and whilst the three disengaged fingers of the left hand seize and place
the card under the pack, the thumb and forefinger of the right seize the projecting card before
mentioned, so that it seems to be that card which you have slipped into the middle of the pack.
These movements are very easy, and, when rapidly performed, the illusion is complete.

TRICKS.

1. To tell a card thought of by a party after three deals.

Take twenty-one cards of a pack, and deal them out one by one in three lots, requesting the
party to think of a card, and remember in which lot it is.

Having dealt out the cards, ask the party in which lot the card is.

Take up the lots successively, and place the lot containing the card in the MIDDLE.

Deal out the cards again, and ask the party to state in which lot the card is; and proceed
as before, placing the lot containing the card in the middle.

Deal out the cards in like manner a third time, proceeding as before.

Then deal them out as usual, and the eleventh card will be the one thought of, infallibly.
This is the usual way of showing the card thought of; but, as the trick may be partly discovered
by the counting, it is better to hold the cards in your hand, and take out the eleventh card,
counting to yourself, of course, from the left hand, but pretending to be considering the guess.

This is apparently a most mysterious trick, although a necessary consequence of the position
of the lot containing the card in the three deals.

2. The four inseparable kings.

Take four kings. Beneath the last place any two cards, which you take care to conceal. Then
show the four kings and replace the six cards under the pack.

Then take a king and place it in the top of the pack, place one of the TWO OTHER CARDS in the
middle, and the other about the same place, and then, turning up the pack, show that one king
is still at the bottom. Then let the cards be cut, and as three kings were left below, all
must necessarily get together somewhere about the middle of the pack. Of course in placing
the two other cards you pretend to be placing two kings.

3. The barmaid and the three victimizers.

For this amusing trick you arrange the cards thus: Holding the pack in your hands, find all
the knaves, place one of them next to your left hand, and the other three on the table. Then
find a queen, which also place on the table. Then say:--

'Three scamps went into a tavern, and ordered drink. Here they are--the three knaves. "Who's
to pay? I can't," said the first.

"I won't," said the second. "I wish she may get it," said the third. "I'll manage it," said
the first, the greatest rogue of the three. "I say, my pretty girl, haven't you some very old
wine in your cellar?" Here's the barmaid thus addressed by the rogue in question (showing the
queen), and she replied:--"Oh yes, sir, prime old wine." "Let's have a bottle." (Off went the
barmaid. Put the queen in your pocket.) "Now for it, my lads," said the knave in question;
"'mizzle' is the word. Let's be off in opposite directions, and meet to-night; you know where."
Hereupon they decamped, taking opposite directions, which I will indicate by placing one on
the top of the pack, one at the bottom, and the other in the middle.

'When the poor barmaid returned (taking out the queen from your pocket) with the wine, great
was her astonishment to find the room empty. "Lor!" she exclaimed, "why, I do declare--did
you ever!--Oh! but I'm not agoing to be sarved so. I'll catch the rogues, all of them--that
I will." And off she went after them, as shown by placing her ON, or at any rate, AFTER the first.

'Now, to catch the three seemed impossible; but the ladies have always smiled at impossibilities,
and wonders never cease; for, if you have the goodness to cut these cards, you will find that
she HAS caught the three rogues.'

When the cards are cut, proceed in the USUAL WAY after cutting--NOT as required in the last
trick; and taking up the cards, you will find the queen and three knaves together, which you
take out and exhibit to the astonished audience.

Of course, one of these knaves is not one of the three first exhibited, but the one which you
slipped on your left hand at first. There is no chance of detection, however; simply for the
reason before given--nobody suspects the trick.

4. How to name every card in a pack successively turned up by a second party, and win every
trick at a hand of Whist.

This is, perhaps, the most astonishing of all tricks with cards. Although it may be true that
whatever puzzle one man invents, some other man may unravel, as before observed, I am decidedly
of opinion that this trick defies detection. At the first blush it seems very difficult to
learn; but it is simplicity itself in explanation.

Begin by laying out the cards in four rows according to the suits, all of a suit in a row side
by side.

The cards must now be arranged for the trick. Take up the six in the top or bottom row, then
the two in the next row, the ten in the third, and the nine in the fourth, placing them one
upon the other in the left hand. Then begin again with the row from which you took the six,
and take up the three. From the next row take the king. These numbers will be easily remembered
with a little practice, amounting altogether to 30, made up thus--6 and 2 are 8, 8 and 10 are
18, 18 and 9 are 27, 27 and 3 are 30--KING.

By repeating this addition a few times, it will be fixed in the memory.

Proceed by next beginning with the row next to the one from which you took the last card or
the king, and take the eight; from the next row take the four; from the next the ace; from
the next the knave. These cards make up 13. Therefore say, 8 and 4 are 12 and 1 are 13--knave.

From the next row to that whence you took the knave, take the seven; from the next row take
the five; from the next the queen. These cards make up 12. Thus, 7 and 5 are 12--queen.

It thus appears that you have taken up thirteen cards consisting of the four suits, successively
taken and being arranged as follows:--6, 2, 10, 9, 3, king; 8, 4, 1, knave; 7, 5, queen.

Proceed in like manner with the remainder of the cards, beginning with the row next to that
from which you took the queen, and take the six, then from the next row the two, and so on
as before, making up another batch of 13 cards.

Repeat the process for a third batch, and finish with the remainder for the fourth--always
remembering to take the card from the next row in succession continually; in other words, only
one card must be taken from each row at a time.

When the cards are thus arranged, request a party to cut them. This is only pretence; for you
must take care dexterously to replace the cut just as it was before. Let them be cut again,
and replace them as before. Your ruse will not be detected, simply because nobody suspects
the possibility of the thing.

Now take up the pack, and from the BOTTOM take the first four cards; handing the remainder
to a party, sitting before you, saying--'I shall now call every card in succession from the
top of the pack in your hand.'

To do this, two things must be remembered; and there is no difficulty in it. First, the numbers
6, 2, 10, 9, 3, king, &c., before given; and next the SUIT of those cards.

Now you know the NUMBERS by heart, and the SUIT is shown by the four cards which you hold in
your hand, fan-like, in the usual way. If the first of the four cards be a club, the first
card you call will be the six of clubs; if the next be a heart, the next card called will be
the two of hearts, and so on throughout the thirteen made up from every row, as before given,
and the suits of each card will be indicated successively by the suit of each of your four
indicator cards, thus, as the case may be, clubs, hearts, diamonds, spades; clubs, hearts,
diamonds, spades, and so on.

After a little private practice, you will readily and rapidly call, as the case may be, from
the four cards in your hand:--the six of clubs, two of hearts, ten of diamonds, nine of spades,
three of clubs, king of hearts, eight of diamonds, four of spades, ace of clubs, knave of hearts,
seven of diamonds, five of spades, queen of clubs--and so on to the last card in the pack.

In the midst of the astonishment produced by this seemingly prodigious display of memory, say--'Now,
if you like, we will have a hand at Whist, and I undertake to win every trick if I be allowed
to deal.'

Let the Whist party be formed, and get the cards cut as usual--only taking care to REPLACE
them, as before enjoined, precisely as they were. Deal the cards, and the result will be that
your thirteen cards will be ALL TRUMPS. Let the game proceed until your opponents 'give it
up' in utter bewilderment.

This splendid trick seems difficult in description, but it is one of the easiest; and even
were it ten times more difficult than it is, the reader will perhaps admit that it is worth
mastering. Once committed to memory the figures are never forgotten, and a few repetitions,
with the cards before you, will suffice to enable you to retain them.

5. Two persons having each drawn a card and replaced them in the pack, to guess these cards.

Make a set of all the clubs and spades, and another set of hearts and diamonds. Shuffle well
each set, and even let them be shuffled by the spectators. Then request a person to draw a
card from one of the sets, and another person to draw one from the second set.

You now take a set in each hand, presenting them to the two persons, requesting them to replace
the drawn cards. You must pretend to present to each person the set from which he drew his
card, but in reality you present the red set to the person who drew the black card, and the
black set to the person who drew the red card.

Each person having replaced his card, you get each set shuffled. Then you take them in hand,
and by running them over you easily find the red card amongst the black, and the black card
amongst the red.

Of course you will have prepared the sets beforehand, and take care to alter the arrangement
as soon as possible after the trick. But you can prepare the pack in the presence of others
without their detecting it. Distribute the cards by dealing according to the two colours; take
them up, and having placed the red set a little projecting over the black, set them down, and,
pretending to cut them, separate the sets.

6. Twenty cards being arranged upon a table, a person thinks of two, and you undertake to guess
them.

Lay out twenty cards of any kind, two by two,

     | c | i | c | o | s |
     | d | e | d | i | t |
     | t | u | m | u | s |
     | n | e | m | o | n |

and request a party to think of two in a line; that is, one of the ten sets formed by the twenty
cards. This done you take up the sets in the order in which they lie, and place them in rows
according to the letters of the words. You may use a diagram like the preceding, but as the
words are easily retained it had better be dispensed with, distributing the cards on the table
just as though upon the diagram, which will make the trick more puzzling and extraordinary.
Proceed as follows:--Place the cards two by two on similar letters: thus, place the two cards
of the first set on the two d's in dedit; the two cards of the second set on the two i's of
cicos and dedit; the two of the third set on the two c's, and so on with the ten sets.

All the letters of the words being thus covered, ask the party who has thought of the cards
to tell you in which lines these cards are. If both are in the first line (cicos), they must
be those on the two c's; if they are both in the second line, they cover the d's in dedit;
both in the third line, they cover the u's in tumus; both in the fourth, they cover the n's
in nemon.

If one be in the first line and the other in the second, they cover the i's in cicos and dedit,
and thus of the rest--the two cards thought of NECESSARILY covering two SIMILAR LETTERS, whilst
each of the letters occurs only TWICE in the diagram.

7. To tell a card thought of without even looking at the cards.

Take any number of cards,--say twenty. Pretend to shuffle them with the faces towards you,
and REMEMBER THE FIRST CARD as you close the pack--suppose the ten of diamonds. Tell the party
that the only condition you require is to be told the ORDER in which the card is dealt out
by you; in other words, he must tell you whether in dealing it comes out first, second, third, &c.

Remembering your first card, you may then turn your back to him, and deal out the cards one
by one, and one upon the top of the other, requesting him to think of a card and its order
as before said.

Then take up the cards, and shuffle them repeatedly, by throwing a portion of them from the
bottom to the top, taking care not to mix the cards or let any drop, and then let the party
cut them as often as he pleases. Then, take the cards in hand. Pretend to examine them mysteriously,
but in reality only look for YOUR card--the first dealt out--the ten of diamonds for instance.
Now, suppose he tells you that the card he thought of came out FIFTH. Then, for a certainty,
it is the fourth card on the RIGHT of the ten of diamonds, in spite of all YOUR shuffling,
and all regular cutting, for such shuffling and regular cutting cannot alter the order or sequence
of the cards. Always remember to count from your own card inclusive to the number of the card
thought of towards your right hand. But should your card happen to be so near the right hand
or the top as not to allow sufficient counting, then count as far as it admits to the RIGHT
and then continue at the LEFT. Thus, suppose there are only two cards above the ten of diamonds,
then count two more on the left, making the fifth. If the card you remember, or your first
card, is first, then count the requisite number on the left, always beginning with YOUR card,
however.

The REASON of this trick is simply that by merely cutting the cards, and shuffling them in
the way indicated, you do not alter the SEQUENCE of the cards. With regard to this sort of
SHUFFLING, I may say that it is simply CUTTING the cards--always preserving their sequence--a
most important fact for card-players, since it may lead to a pretty accurate conjecture of
all the hands after a deal, from the study of the one in hand, with reference to the tricks
turned down after the previous deal, as already suggested. Hence, in shuffling for whist or
other games, the cards should not be shuffled in this way, but more thoroughly mixed by the
edgewise shuffling of certain players.

This is the trick I alluded to at the commencement of the chapter, the mode of performing which
I succeeded in discovering.

Of course ANY NUMBER of persons may think of cards, remembering their order, and the operator
will tell them, in like manner.

8. A person having thought of one of fifteen cards presented to him, to guess the card thought of.

Form three ranks of five cards each, and request a party to think of one of these cards, and
tell you in which rank it is. Take up the cards of the three ranks, taking care to place the
cards of the ranks in which is the card thought of between those of the two other ranks.

Make three more ranks as before. Ask the party again in which rank the card is, and take them
up, placing the rank in which the card is between the two others. Operate in like manner a
third time, and the card thought of will infallibly be the THIRD of the rank named by the party.

Observe, however, you must not form each rank with five consecutive cards; but you must place
the cards one by one, placing one successively in each rank; thus, one at the top on the left
of the first rank, one below that first for the second rank, one below the second for the third
rank, then one in the first, one in the second, one in the third, and so on.

This trick, which is very easy, always produces a great effect. It only requires a little attention,
and it can never fail unless you make a mistake in arranging the cards, which, however, is
too simple to admit of error.

9. Two persons having each drawn a card from a pack, and having replaced them, to tell these
cards after the pack has been shuffled and cut by the spectators as often as they like.

The cards may be easily divided into two numerical parts, even and odd: by taking a king for
four points, a queen for three, a knave for two, and the other cards for their especial points,
we may make up two sets of sixteen cards each, the even composing one, and the odd the other.
These two sets being before the performer, he takes one, shuffles it well, and lets a party
take a card. He then takes the other, shuffles it, and lets another party take a card. Then,
whilst each party is looking at his card, which HE IS REQUESTED TO DO, the performer dexterously
changes the place of the two sets, and he requests the parties to replace the cards in the
set whence they took them. It follows that the party who took a card from the EVEN set places
it in the ODD set, and he who took it from the ODD set places it in the even set. Consequently,
all the shuffling and cutting in the world will be useless, for the performer has only to spread
out the cards of each set to point out the cards drawn.

10. Singular arrangement of sixteen cards.

Take the four kings, the four queens, the four knaves, and the four tens of a pack, and ask
if there be any one in the company who can form a square with them in such a manner that, taken
in any direction, from right to left, from the top to the bottom, by the diagonal--anyhow,
in fact--there will always be in each line a king, queen, knave, and a ten. Everybody will
think the thing easy, but it is certain that no one will succeed in doing it. When they 'give
it up,' take the sixteen cards and arrange them as shown, when the king, queen, knave, and
ten will stand as required.

11. The seven trick.

Make up the four sevens of a pack, and take seven other cards, no matter which, for another
lot, and, presenting both lots, you say:--Here are two lots totally dissimilar; nevertheless,
there is one of seven, and I declare it will be the first touched by any party present. Of
course, when touched, you at once prove your words by exhibiting either the sevens or the seven
cards--taking care to mix the cards into the pack immediately to prevent detection.

12. Infallible method for guessing any number that a party has thought of.

Take the first ten cards of a pack of 52 cards. Set out these ten cards as shown below, so
that the point A should correspond to the ace, and to 1--the point F to the card representing
the 6--and E to the 10.

              2  3  4
              B  C  D
          1 A--------E 5
         10 K--------F 6
              I  H  G
              9  8  7

Thus prepared, you request a party to think of a card, and then you tell him to touch any number
he pleases, requesting him to name it aloud. Then, adding the whole number of the cards to
the number touched, you tell him to count backwards to himself, beginning with the card touched,
and giving to that card the number of the one thought of. By counting in this way, the party
will at length count the entire number on the card thought of, which you will thus be able
to designate with certainty.

Example:--Suppose the card thought of is G, marking 7; again, supposing the one touched to
be D, equal to 4; you add to this number the entire number of cards, which is, in this case,
10, which will make 14. Then, making the party count this sum, from the number touched, D to
C, B, A, and so on, backwards, so that in commencing to count the number thought of, 7 on D,
the party will continue, saying, 8 on C, 9 on B, 10 on A, 11 on K, 12 on I, 13 on H, and end
with counting 14 on G; and you will thus discover that the number thought of is 7, which corresponds
to G.

Of course the party counts TO himself, and only speaks to designate the point on which he stops,
namely, G in this example.

This trick may be performed with any number of cards--as few as six, or as many as fifteen.
Then you must always add to the number the total of the cards used. The trick will be much
more interesting and striking if you turn the cards face downwards, only trusting to your memory
to retain the order of the numbers.

Of course, the letters are only used to facilitate the explanation. The cards really form a
sort of circle, beginning at 1 or the ace on the left, and then continuing with the 2, the
3, the 4, the 5, and so on, to the 10 below the ace; and, by necessity, the party must end
his counting with the very card he thought of, beginning from the one he happens to point out.

13. The card that cannot be found.

Take any number of cards and spread them out fan-like in your hand, faces fronting the spectators.

Ask one of them to select a card. You tell him to take it, and then to place it at the bottom
of the pack. You hold up the pack, so that the spectators may see that the card is really at
the bottom. Suppose this card is the king of hearts.

Then, pretending to take that card, you take the card preceding it, and place it at a point
corresponding to A in the following figure.

    A  C
    B  D

You then take the card drawn, namely, the king of hearts, and place it at the point corresponding
to B in the above figure. Finally, you take any two other cards, and place them at C and D.

Of course, the cards are placed face downwards.

After this location of the cards, you tell the party who has chosen the card that you will
change the position of the cards, by pushing alternately that at the point A to B, and that
at D to C, and vice versa; and you defy him to follow you in these gyrations of the card, and
to find it.

Of course, seeing no difficulty in the thing, and believing with everybody that his card is
placed at the point A, he will undertake to follow and find his card. Then performing what
you undertake to do, you rapidly change the places of the cards, and yet slowly enough to enable
the party to keep in view the card which he thinks his own, and so that you may not lose sight
of the one you placed at B.

Having thus arranged the cards for a few moments, you ask the party to perform his promise
by pointing out his card. Feeling sure that he never lost sight of it, he instantly turns one
of the cards and is astonished to find that it is not his own. Then you say:--'I told you you
would not be able to follow your card in its ramble. But I have done what you couldn't do:
here is your card!'

The astonishment of the spectators is increased when you actually show the card; for, having
made them observe in the first instance, that you did not even look at the drawn card, they
are utterly at a loss to discover the means you employed to find out and produce the card in
question.

14. Cards being drawn from a pack, to get them guessed by a person blindfolded.

At all these performances there are always amongst the spectators persons in league with the
prestidigitator. In the present case a woman is the assistant, with whom he has entered into
an arrangement by which each card is represented by a letter of the alphabet; and the following
are the cards selected for the trick with their representative letters.

The performer takes a handkerchief and blindfolds the lady in question, and places her in the
centre of the circle of spectators. Then spreading out the cards, he requests each of the spectators
to draw a card.

He requests the first to give him the card he has drawn; he looks at it, and placing it on
the table face downwards, he asks the lady to name the card, which she does instantly and without
hesitation.

Of course this appears wonderful to the spectators, and their astonishment goes on increasing
whilst the lady names every card in succession to the last.

It is, however, a very simple affair. Each card represents a letter of the alphabet, as we
see by the figure, and all the performer has to do is to begin every question with the letter
corresponding to the card.

Suppose the party has drawn the king of hearts. Its letter is A.

The performer exclaims--'Ah! I'm sure you know this!' The A at once suggests the card in question.
Suppose it is the ace of clubs. He says--'Jump at conclusions if you like, but be sure in hitting
this card on the nail.' J begins the phrase, and represents the card in question. Suppose it
is the ten of spades, he cries out--'Zounds! if you mistake this you are not so clever a medium
as I took you for.' The ace of diamonds--'Quite easy, my dear sir,' or 'my dear ma'am,' as
the case may be. Q represents the ace of diamonds. The queen of diamonds--'Oh, the beauty!'
The ace of hearts--'Dear me! what is this?' The ace of spades--'You are always right, name
it.' The nine of diamonds--'So! so! well, I'm sure she knows it.'

Doubtless these specimens will suffice to suggest phrases for every other card. Such phrases
may be written out and got by heart--only twenty-three being required; but this seems useless,
for it does not require much tact at improvisation to hit upon a phrase commencing with any
letter. However, it will be better to take every precaution rather than run the risk of stopping
in the performance, whose success mainly depends upon the apparently inspired rapidity of the
answers. The performer might conceal in the hollow of his hand a small table exactly like the
figure, to facilitate his questions. As for the medium, he, or she, must rely entirely on memory.
Of course the spectators may be allowed to see that the medium is completely blindfolded. This
modern trick has always puzzled the keenest spectators

15. The mystery of double sight.

All the cards of a pack, or indeed any common object touched by a spectator, may be named by
an assistant in the following way--whilst in another apartment, or blindfolded.

Take 32 cards and arrange them in four lines, one under the other. You arrange with your assistant
to name the first line after the days of the week; the second will represent the weeks, the
third the months, the fourth the years. The assistant is enjoined to count the days aloud,
and the first card by the left. When he is recalled, whether blindfolded or not, he pretends
to count to himself for a considerable time, so as to allow his associate time to say to him,
without affectation or exciting suspicion of collusion--'I give you,' or 'I give him SO MUCH
TIME to guess what is required; 'for it is in this phrase that the whole secret of the trick
is contained, as I shall proceed to demonstrate.

Suppose the card touched be one of those marked with the asterisks * ** ***; if it be the first,
the associate says,; I give him eight days to guess it.' Then the medium, beginning with the
upper line, that of the days, will at once be able to say that the card touched is the eighth
of the first horizontal line, or the first of the eighth vertical line.

If it be the card holding the place of the number marked with two asterisks ** the associate
says 'three months,' and 'seven years' for the one marked with three asterisks ***.

Thus, whatever card is touched, it will be easy to indicate it, by beginning with the line
of days at the top, counting one from the left of the associate and medium.

Such is the simple process; and the following is the conventional catechism adopted by all
theoperators in double sight, with a few variations adapted to circumstances.

With this collection of words and phrases, every existing object can be guessed, provided care
be taken to classify them according to the following indications.

To operate, two persons must establish a perfect understanding between them. One undertakes
the questions, the other the answers, the latter having his eyes perfectly blindfolded. Both
of them must thoroughly know the following numbers with their correspondences:--

1. Now. 9. Quick. 2. Answer or reply. 10. Say. 3. Name. 20. Tell me. 4. What is the object,
or thing. 30. I request you. 5. Try. 40. Will you. 6. Again. 50. Will you (to) me. 7. Instantly.
60. Will you (to) us. 8. Which?

Example:--Add the question of the simple number to the question of the decade or ten. Thus,
in pronouncing the words 'Say now,' 11--for say is 10, and now is 1, total 11. This, therefore,
forms question 11.

Again--'Tell me which number,' 28--for 'tell me' is 20, and 'which' is 8, total 28.

Thirdly:--'I request you instantly,' 37; for 'I request you' is 30, and 'instantly' is 7, total 37.

All the expressions or words that follow are totally independent of the answer, and are only
adapted to embellish or mystify the question as far as the audience is concerned. For instance:

Question 7. Instantly, what I have in my hand? Answer, A watch.

Question 9. Quick, the hour? Answer, nine o'clock.

Question 30, I request you (2) reply--the minutes. Answer, 32 minutes, that is 30 and 2, equal
to 32.

It would be useless to give the entire correspondence invented for this apparently mysterious
revelation, as a few specimens will suffice to show the principle.

     Say what I hold?  A handkerchief.
     Say now what I hold?  A snuff-box.
     Say, reply, what I hold?  A pair of spectacles.
     Say and name what I hold?  A box.
     Say and try to say what I hold?  A hat.
     Say quickly what I hold?  An umbrella.

     Tell me, reply, what I hold?  A knife.
     Tell me what I hold?  A purse.
     Tell me now what I hold?  A pipe.
     Tell me and try to say what I hold?  A needle.
     Tell me quickly what I hold?  A cane.

     I request you to say what I hold?  A portfolio.
     I request you to say now what I hold?  Paper.
     I request you to say, reply, what I hold?  A book.
     I request you to say quickly what I hold?  A coin.

     Will you say, reply, what I hold?--A cigar.
     Will you say, name what I hold?--A cane.
     Will you say, again, what I hold?--A newspaper.

     Now, what I hold?--A bottle.
     Reply, what I hold?--A jug.
     Name what I hold?--A glass.
     Again, what contains this vessel?--Wine.
     Instantly, what this vessel contains?--Beer.
     Now the form?--Triangular.
     Reply, the form?--Round.
     Name the form?--Square.
     The form?--Oval.
     Try to indicate the form?--Pointed.
     Again, indicate the form?--Flat.

     Now, the colour?--White.
     Reply, the colour?--Blue.
     Name the colour?--Red.
     The colour of this object?--Black.
     Try to tell the colour?--Green.
     Again, the colour?--Yellow.

     Now, the metal?--Gold.
     Reply, the metal?--Silver.
     The metal of the thing?--Copper.
     Again, the metal?--Iron.
     Instantly, the metal?--Lead.

     Ah! the figure or hour?--1.
     Well?--2.  'Tis good?--3.
     'Tis well?--4.
     Good?--5.
     But?--6.
     Let's see?--7.
     That's it?--8.
     &c.

     Now name the suit of this card?--Clubs.
     Reply, the suit of this card?--Hearts.
     Name the suit of this card?--Spades.
     The suit of this card?--Diamonds.

It is obvious, from the preceding specimen, that a conventional catechism involving every object
can be contrived by two persons, and adapted to every circumstance. The striking performances
of the most notorious mesmeric 'patients' in this line prove the possibility of the achievement.
The 'agent' who receives the questions in writing or in a whisper thus communicates the answer
to the patient, who is laboriously trained in the entire encyclopaedia of 'common things' and
things generally known; but it MAY happen that the question proposed by the spectator has been
omitted in the scheme.

On one occasion, when the famous Prudence was the 'patient,' and was telling the taste of all
manner of liquids from a glass of water, I proposed 'Blood' to the 'agent.' He shook his head,
said he would try; but it was useless. She said she 'couldn't do it,' and the agent frankly
admitted that it was a failure.

Now, if the mesmeric consciousness were really, as pretended, the result of mental intercommunication
between the agent and patient, it is obvious that the well-known taste of blood could be communicated
as well as any other taste. This experiment suffices to prove that the revelations are communicated
in the matter-of-fact way which I have sufficiently described.

Should it happen that a spectator has discovered the method, the performers easily turn the
tables against him. They have always ready a conventional list of common things; and the agent
undertakes that his mesmeric patient will indicate them without hearing a word from him, even
in another apartment. The agent then merely touches the object, and the patient begins with
the first name in his list. The patient takes care to give the agent sufficient time, lest
he should name the object next to be touched before the agent applies his finger, and thus,
as it were, call for it rather than name it when touched, as required by the case.

1. Guessing.

Five persons having each thought of a different card, to guess five cards.

Take twenty-five cards, show five of them to a party, requesting him to think of one, then
place them one upon the other. Proceed in like manner with five more to a second party, and
so on, five parties in all, placing the fives on the top of each other. Then, beginning with
the top cards, make five lots, placing one card successively in each lot; and ask the five
parties, one after the other, in which lot their card is. As the first five cards are the first
of each lot, it is evident that the card thought of by the first party is the first of the
lot he points to; that of the second, is the second of the lot he points to; that of the third,
the third of the third lot; that of the fourth, the fourth of the fourth lot; that of the fifth,
the fifth of the fifth lot.

Of course five persons are not necessary. If there be but one person, the card must be the
first of the lot he points to.

It would be more artistic, perhaps, if you dispense with seeing the cards, making the lots
up with your eyes turned away from the table. Then request the parties to observe in which
lot their respective card is, and, taking the lots successively in hand, present to each the
card thought of without looking at it yourself.

17. The Arithmetical Puzzle.

This card trick, to which I have alluded in a previous page, cannot fail to produce astonishment;
and it is one of the most difficult to unravel.

Hand a pack of cards to a party, requesting him to make up parcels of cards, in the following
manner. He is to count the number of pips on the first card that turns up, say a five, and
then add as many cards as are required to make up the number 12; in the case here supposed,
having a five before him, he will place seven cards upon it, turning down the parcel. All the
court cards count as 10 pips; consequently, only two cards will be placed on such to make up
12. The ace counts as only one pip.

He will then turn up another, count the pips upon it, adding cards as before to make up the
number 12; and so on, until no more such parcels can be made, the remainder, if any, to be
set aside, all being turned down.

During this operation, the performer of the trick may be out of the room, at any rate, at such
a distance that it will be impossible for him to see the first cards of the parcels which have
been turned down; and yet he is able to announce the number of pips made up by all the first
cards laid down, provided he is only informed of the number of parcels made up and the number
of the remainder, if any.

The secret is very simple. It consists merely in multiplying the number of parcels over four
by 13 (or rather vice versa), and adding the remaining cards, if any, to the product.

Thus, there have just been made up seven packets, with five cards over. Deducting 4 from 7,
3 remain; and I say to myself 13 times 3 (or rather 3 times 13) are 39, and adding to this
the five cards over, I at once declare the number of pips made up by the first cards turned
down to be 44.

There is another way of performing this striking trick. Direct six parcels of cards to be made
up in the manner aforesaid, and then, on being informed of the number of cards remaining over,
add that number to 26, and the sum will be the number of pips made up by the first cards of
the six parcels.

Such are the methods prescribed for performing this trick; but I have discovered another, which
although, perhaps, a little more complicated, has the desirable advantage of explaining the
seeming mystery.

Find the number of cards in the parcels, by subtracting the remainder, if any, from 52. Subtract
the number of pip cards therefrom, deduct this last from the number made up of the number of
parcels multiplied by 12, and the remainder will be the number of pips on the first cards.

To demonstrate this take the case just given. There are seven parcels and five cards over.
First, this proves that there are 47 cards in the seven parcels made up of pips and cards.
Secondly, subtract the number of pip cards--seven from the number of cards in the parcels;
then, 7 from 47, 40 remain (cards). Thirdly, now, as the seven parcels are made up both of
the pip cards and cards, it is evident that we have only to find the number of cards got at
as above, to get the number of pips required. Thus, there being seven packets, 7 times 12 make
84; take 40, as above found (the number of cards), and the remainder is 44, the number of pips
as found by the first method explained,--the process being as follows:--

 52 - 5 = 47 - 7 = 40.

 Then, 7 X 12 = 84 - 40 = 44.

In general, however, the first method, being the easiest of performance, should be adopted.
The second is in many respects very objectionable.

18. To get a card into a pack firmly held by a party.

This trick strikingly shows how easily we may all be deceived by appearances.

Select the five or seven of any suit, say the seven of hearts, and handing the remainder of
the pack to a party, show him the card, with your thumb on the seventh pip, so as to conceal
it, saying:--'Now, hold the pack as firmly as you can, and keep your eye upon it to see that
there is no trickery, and yet I undertake to get into it this six of hearts.' This injunction
rivets his attention, and doubtless, like other wise people destined to be deceived, he feels
quite sure that nobody can 'take him in.' In this satisfactory condition for the operation
on both sides, you flourish the card so as just to reach the level of the top of your hat (if
you wear an Alpine scolloped, so much the better), and then, bringing down the card, rapidly
strike it on the pack twice, uttering the words one, two, at each stroke; but, on the third
raising of the card, leave it on the top of your hat, striking the pack with your hand--with
the word three. Then request the party to look for the six of hearts in the pack, and he will
surely find it, to his amazement.

This trick may be performed in a drawing-room, if the operator be seated, dropping the card
behind his back, especially in an easy-chair.