The Battalions in this District, and upon whom the inhabitants had chiefly to depend, were
the "Huntingdon Borderers" and the "Hemmingford Rangers," under their gallant commanders, Cols.
McEachren and Rogers, and to whose valorous energy and that of the heroic officers and men
under their charge, is the country in general deeply indebted.

Thus ended the Fenian invasion of 1870. Providentially not one of the Canadian party received
even the slightest injury. The volunteers were immediately recalled, and peace was restored
to the country.

Among those who took part in the action at Eccles' Hill was Fred Charlston. He returned to
Montreal, bearing along with him as trophies of war, a Fenian coat, knapsack and rifle. So
elated was he on the night of his return by his fortunate and glorious adventure, that he with
several of his comrades got mortally drunk, so much so that he and two others had to be taken
to the police station for safe keeping, where they remained until they became sobered off.

Frederick being somewhat of a poet, composed the following song in honor of those Canadian
Volunteers who were brought into action along the Border.

      OUR BORDER VOLUNTEERS.

      All hail! our Border Volunteers,
        All loyal, true and brave,
      Who boldly faced the Fenian foe,
        And spurn'd a coward's grave.
      All hail to all those gallant chiefs,
        Who stood the trying hour,
      And bravely led their heroes forth
        To crush the Fenians' power.

      Chorus.--Our country's foe we need not dread,
                   When danger's hour appears,
                 While guarded by those gallant braves,
                   Our Border Volunteers.

      No menial soldier fills our ranks,
        Nor yet a martial slave;
      O'er free and independent men
        Our banners proudly wave.
      They are our country's stalwart sons,
        Who love their home and hearth,
      Who honour still their Fatherland,
        And this which gave them birth.

      Chorus.--Our country's foe, &c.

      'Tis not the savage thirst for blood
        Which makes our heroes brave,
      'Tis not for conquest and renown
        Their banners proudly wave.
      Their voice proclaims the love of peace,
        To all an equal right,
      But mercy spurn'd by reckless foes
        Empowers their sword of might.

      Chorus.--Our country's foes, &c.

      Trout River's banks and Eccles' Hill,
        Shall echo forth their fame,
      And thousands yet unborn will rise,
        To shout our heroes' name.
      They form the martial battlements
        Of Canada's frontiers,
      Those guardians of our household hearths,
        THE BORDER VOUNTEERS.

The disturbance at Red River in the North-Western Territory, by the revolt of Riel and his
accomplices was also at this time attracting the attention of the Canadian government. A force,
consisting of regulars and volunteers, had already been organized; and was to be despatched
immediately to Red River for the purpose of suppressing the Riel-Rebellion.

The glory of warfare had aroused within the mind of Frederick Charlston a love for adventure
and a spirit of Canadian patriotism: and feeling a desire to enlist as a roving soldier, he
immediately, after his return to Montreal, departed for Toronto, head-quarters for the Battalions
designed for Red River. A few healthy and well-disciplined volunteers were still wanted; and
Fred, having passed an examination, was initiated into the ranks as a volunteer for Red River.

On the evening previous to his departure he retired to his room; and having emptied a tumbler
full of hot brandy punch, he sat down gloriously happy, and penned the following letter to
his parents.

     "Toronto, June 7th, 1870.

     "Dear Father and Mother,--As you may feel somewhat disposed by this
     time to relish a bit of my history in Canada, I now, for the first
     time, since I left home, lift my pen to address you. I shipped in
     the S. S. Moravian from Liverpool, to Portland, U.S., and during
     the voyage had to undergo the terrible ordeal of sea-sickness.
     However, I arrived at Montreal on the evening of Christmas last, as
     sound as a church bell. I found immediate employment in the city at
     six shillings per day. I am partially fond of this country and the
     inhabitants in general, with the exception of a sort of people
     named French Kanucks; but they are as harmless as a flock of sheep;
     and stand as mere cyphers in the ranks of society. Last winter I
     joined a company of city volunteers; and was present at an
     engagement with the Fenians at a place known as Eccles Hill, on the
     25th ultimo, of which affair you will have heard by the London
     papers. I went up boldly to the Front, and fought the Fenians like
     a tiger. I don't know how many I killed; but I feel certain that I
     must have annihilated quite a large number, as I fired away every
     cartridge I had. I brought back with me to Montreal a Fenian-coat,
     knapsack and rifle, &c. Since my return I have been lionized by my
     officers and comrades for my daring exploits. The sun of fortune
     has already begun to shine upon me; and I have determined that my
     progress shall be in the ascendancy, until I arise to the very
     zenith of my glory. I have just enlisted myself as a volunteer to
     go over 2000 miles into the dense forests of Canada to fight the
     savages of the North-West at Red River. I leave to-morrow. The
     undertaking is gigantic, but the glory that shall arise therefrom
     shall be immeasurably greater. Be not surprised should you hear of
     me ere long being gazetted as commander of a battalion in the
     North-Western Territory. On my return, to England, if ever, I shall
     take my Fenian trophies along with me, and perhaps a few hundred of
     Indian scalps, &c., as curiosities for my friends and old
     acquaintances.

     "Give my respects to none but those who inquire kindly about me. My
     love to the little 'chick.' He may live to be yet proud of his
     father. I shall write again as soon as I get the savages disposed
     of."

     "Father, mother, sisters and brother, accept the expression of my
     love. Farewell, farewell."

     "Fred. Charlston."

The volunteers for Red River were forwarded from Toronto to Collingwood; where they embarked
on the steamers Algoma and Chigora; and proceeded 300 miles to Thunder Bay, on Lake Superior;
thence by land and water through a dense wilderness, several hundred miles, to Fort Garry,
at Red River. A prodigious undertaking, indeed, involving a vast amount of labor and privation;
nevertheless the majority of the troops endured it tolerably well. During the first two or
three weeks Fred Charlston stood the hardships and inconveniences with a brave spirit, and
enjoyed with good relish the rough life of the military pioneer; so much so that he gave expression
to his patriotic feelings in the following song, which he and his associates frequently sung
with great gusto:--

    Come now, my lads, we'll march along,
      And wave our banners high,
    The savage herds in forest wilds
      Shall hear our battle-cry.
    The distant realm before us lies,
      The road is rough and drear,
    O'er lake and stream thro' mountain wild
      Our martial course we'll steer.

     Chorus.--Then march along, my hearty lads,
                  And cheer your hearts with song,
                The nation cheers the Volunteers
                  Who bravely march along.

    No scorching sun, no torrent shower,
      No toil, nor want of rest,
    Has power to check that British pluck
      Which warms each loyal breast.
    No savage of the woods we dread,
      Nor death, nor danger near,
    We are a nation's loyal sons
      Who spurn a coward's fear.

    Chorus.--Then march along, &c.

    That savage wretch with bloody hands,
      Usurping in his might,
    Shall keenly feel a nation's steel
      That justifies its right.
    "Revenge" shall be our battle-cry,
      Revenge the bloody foe:
    Fort Garry's walls with tongues of blood,
      Shall echo back the blow.

    Chorus.--Come march along, "my hearty lads,"
                 And shout the martial song.
               The nation cheers the Volunteers
                 Who bravely march along.

CHAPTER VIII.

I will now silently pass over the space of three months, and leave the reader to follow in
imagination the adventures of our hero in the Red River Expedition;--and as an essential character
in the sequel of this story I will now take the liberty of introducing myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

On a fine afternoon about the middle of September, 1870, I arrived at Kingston, Ontario, and
took lodgings at the "City Hotel," where I intended to remain for a few days. I was then on
a tour selling a poetical work which I had written, entitled: "The Canadian Minstrel." After
tea, that evening, I stepped up stairs to the sitting-room, and sat down to write a letter
to my friends at home. Shortly afterwards, and while seated there alone, a young man entered
the room.

"I beg pardon, sir; I hope I'm not intruding," he exclaimed very politely as he entered.

"No, not in the least, sir," said I. He then walked over to the sofa, and pulling out a newspaper
from his pocket, sat down and began to peruse it. I resumed my pen; and when finished with
my letter, I addressed him somewhat familiarly, and we entered into conversation, chiefly about
the war which was then being carried on between France and Prussia. He was apparently intelligent;
and although slightly reticent at first, became gradually more conversive and familiar.

He appeared to be about 25 years of age, tall, and somewhat slender in figure; of keen a nervous
temperament; with hair and moustache of a brownish color: features slightly prominent and very
expressive. He was courteous in manners, and in general appearance, genteel and good-looking.
His style of conversing was agreeable; his arguments pointed and logical; and his remarks,
full of sympathetic sentiment, apparently the breathings of an impulsive moral nature. His
countenance, although naturally expressive of energy, appeared slightly shadowed by an expression
of sadness. Even in his manner and conversation there was a peculiar indication of deep thoughtfulness,
tinged with melancholy. Respecting his own history he said nothing, nor did he ask anything
about mine. I was however much interested in his company, and although strangers to each other,
we passed a very pleasant evening together.

At breakfast on the following morning he sat directly opposite to me. We saluted each other
in a friendly manner, and occasionally exchanged a few sentences. Shortly after we had retired
from the table he came forward and addressed me.

"I shall bid you good bye, friend, for the present," said he, apparently in readiness to depart.

"And so you are going to leave," said I. "I'm sorry I had not the pleasure of a longer acquaintance
with you."

"I leave for Toronto, where I shall remain a week or two. Should you be there shortly, please
call at the 'Metropolitan Hotel,' and ask for me, I shall be happy to see you," said he, handing
me a card with his name thereon.

"Thank you, sir, I will be happy to do so," said I: and having heartily shaken hands together
as a mutual token of courtesy and good-will, he departed.

As I was desirous of attending the Annual Provincial Show, to be held at Toronto during the
first week of October following, I passed all the intermediate towns on the line of railway,
and arrived in that city a few days previous.

The evening after my arrival I strolled over to the Metropolitan to see the stranger referred
to. He recognized me at once, and was apparently happy to see me. Although our previous acquaintance
had been incidental and but of short duration, we felt on meeting again as if we had been old
friends. He invited me to the sitting room; and we passed a few very agreeable hours together.
On leaving I requested him to spend the following evening with me at the hotel at which I was
staying. He complied therewith; and during his further stay of one week in the city our interviews
were of daily occurrence.

During the following week the city was crowded to its utmost capacity; and the streets presented
a gay and lively appearance, owing to the great influx of visitors to the Exhibition. In company
with my friend I visited the "Show Grounds." Every department of the Arts and Agriculture,
&c., were well represented, showing the vast progress and developments of the Province of Ontario.

The day of the closing of the Exhibition my friend specially invited me to his room to spend
the evening. During our previous interviews he had said but little respecting himself. I noticed,
however, that something was deeply affecting his mind; and that he was apparently desirous
of making it known to me. But it was not until this evening that he, in compliance with my
wishes, gave me the history of his past career: the greater part of which is narrated in the
foregoing chapters of this story: the remainder I will now give in his own words; for, gentle
reader, be it known that this person was none other than Frederick Charlston, with whom you
are already acquainted.

"During the first part of the journey to Red River," said he, "I endured the hardships and
fatigues tolerably well; but the encamping out every night upon the cold earth: the incessant
labor; the hard marches over a rough road, and under a broiling sun, at length became too oppressive.
Oftentimes I felt, as it were, unable to proceed a step further; but my proud spirit with a
stern determination of will, exerted every possible energy, and I continued day after day to
plod along with my foot-sore and way-worn companions. Our fatigues were however occasionally
relieved by a general rest for a few days. But before one third of the journey had been completed
I was seized one night with a severe attack of illness.

"The day had been excessively hot; the commander wishing to get forward that evening to certain
grounds favorable for one week's encampment had recourse to what might be termed a forced march.
Many of the soldiers suffered from the effects thereof; I was prostrated at once by a severe
billious attack, accompanied with chills and fever, and also diarrhea; and when the companies
resumed their march, I was unable to proceed with them.

"The evening previous to the general move the doctor made a special visit to my tent.

"'My young friend,' said he, as he entered, 'I have come to leave you some medicine as I must
move with the army at an early hour to-morrow morning. Your health, although progressing rapidly,
will not permit you to undertake the journey, at least for one week. However, you will be provided
with necessaries, &c. The Captain has appointed a couple of honest Indians to remain and take
care of you: and who will serve as guides when you are ready to depart. But my special injunction
is--"Take good care of yourself," otherwise you will never reach Red River.'

"'Indeed, doctor, I'm afraid I shall never be able to resume the journey,' said I.

"'It would have been much better for you had you not undertaken it at first.'

"'Experience teaches fools,' I exclaimed.

"'Yes, and the wisest of wise men too,' added the doctor, with a sly wink.

"'I regret very much the course I have taken,' said I; 'I am now suffering the experience of
my reckless folly. Were it possible to have an opportunity of living my past years over again
agreeably to my wishes, I assure you, doctor, I would never make a second journey to Canada,
nor go to Red River either; I would make England my home for ever. However, since I have undertaken
this exodus, I hope I shall be able to complete it.'

"'It is my opinion,' said the doctor, 'that your physical constitution, inexperienced as it
has been to a life like this, will not be able to stand the fatigues; and even after a month's
rest, I dread the consequences, as the hardships yet to be endured are tenfold greater than
those you have undergone.'

"'Then what shall I do, doctor? Must I live and die alone in this wilderness?' said I.

"'Under the present circumstances, I think,' said he, 'your resignation will be immediately
accepted. If so remain here for the present under charge of your attendants. In the course
of a week or so, a gang of Indians will pass here on their way to Thunder Bay for provisions.
They can convey you a great portion of the way by canoe; thence you can effect your course
back to Toronto, or to England if you choose, much easier indeed than going the remainder of
the journey to Red River.'

"'Well doctor,' said I, 'I shall comply with your orders.'

"'Then I shall attend to the matter at once,' said the doctor, and immediately withdrew. In
about an hour afterwards he returned, accompanied with several officers. The doctor's request
was acquiesced with, and I received my discharge. The commander on leaving placed $30 in my
hand, wishing me better health and a safe journey back to Toronto. No sooner had they left
than I began to breathe more freely the air of liberty. I felt like a prisoner when liberated
from his shackled bonds. I was no longer a mercenary. I was indeed exalted above the ranks,
and felt myself once more as a man:--And wherefore, may I ask? Let my spirit echo the answer.

"The novelty and the romance of adventure had lost their charms. Military glory had faded under
the stern reality of circumstances. Sickness had dimmed the ardor of my soul. Home-longings
had clustered around my heart: and I then felt as it were for the time being a happiness in
disappointment, and an independence in my liberty.

"My companions were indeed sorry to part with me: and before leaving presented me with many
tokens of their affections. I felt the loneliness of a saddened heart when they were gone.
The Indians were however kind, and faithful in their duties towards me. Under their care my
health and vigor improved rapidly; so much so, that I felt sufficiently able to go with the
returning Indians to Thunder Bay. I stood the travel much better than I anticipated. On the
27th day of August I arrived safely in this city, but much exhausted by the fatigues of the
journey.

"Alas! thought I. What a change of prospects! What a revulsion in circumstances! I left here
as a proud follower of Mars, clothed in scarlet and fine linen like the Kings of Babylon, and
blowing up the tinsel'd bubble of military glory, amid the beating of drums, the blowing of
trumpets, and the cheers of an excited populace. But alas! I returned in silence, as a simple
man of experience, covered in sackcloth, exhausted in body, disappointed in mind, without friends,
without a home, and with comparatively meagre funds. It was then that the last words of my
dear father to me came rushing upon my soul, and adding sorrow to the feelings of my heart.
Humiliating as my circumstances were, more deeply affecting to my mind was the ever-present
remembrance of a dream which I dreamt on the night previous to my departure from Chipenega,
the place where I remained during my illness. I dreamt that I was again residing in Montreal,
that I had retired to my room for the night, and was projecting the design of going to the
Rocky Mountains to dig for gold: and felt excited by the idea that when I had accumulated a
million I would return to England a gentleman of fortune. But my night visions, like my day
dreams, were doomed to vanish in disappointment: for at that moment when my soul was elated
with the prospect, and my heart throbbing big with joy, I was startled by a light suddenly
shining around me; and on looking about I beheld a woman entering the room and approaching
where I lay. Her countenance, though pale, shone with a peculiar brightness. A long robe, white
as the snow, hung loosely around her, and sandals were upon her feet. I was amazed at the appearance
at first sight: but after a momentary gaze I recognized in her features the expression of my
own mother.

"'Oh, mother! my dear mother!' I shouted as she approached, quickly raising myself up from
my couch.

"'Frederick, my son Frederick,' she exclaimed taking hold of my hand in her own, and kissing
me affectionately. 'I have come to take my farewell of you, my dear son, as I am ready to depart
on a long journey and will not again see you on earth. Around my poor body your father, brother,
sisters, and other relatives are at this very moment sobbing in tears, while in spirit I am
here present with you. My time on earth is limited to seconds. My words are therefore few.
My injunctions are these,--I hope you will comply with them. Repent of your wickedness and
folly. Abstain from intoxicating liquors and evil company. Live a righteous life. Return at
once to England, and seal those bonds of a life-union with Clara, whom you have unjustly wronged.
Promise me, my son, to do these things and I shall depart in peace.'

"I was so overcome and bewildered at that moment that I could say nothing more than simply
to whisper,--'Mother, I shall try to do so.' She then kissed me; bade me good-bye; and on wings
of light instantly soared out of the room, leaving it in darkness again. I was so awfully impressed
at this moment that I awoke suddenly. It appeared to me to be more of a waking reality than
a dream. From that time until the present moment it has preyed heavily upon my feelings. Again
and again have I tried to eradicate the impression, but every effort has only had a tendency
to rivet it the more firmly to my mind, until it has at length assumed the aspect of a reality.
I fear my apprehensions are too true; however I trust to Providence that my dream was nothing
more than a baseless emanation of fancy. The evening after my arrival in Toronto from the Red
River expedition I wrote a letter to my parents, and also one to a cousin of my own residing
in London. I stated the circumstances which compelled me to return from the expedition; that
the doctor had advised me to go back to England, as the Canadian climate was not suitable for
my constitution; and that I purposed being in London to spend the Christmas holidays with my
friends. Neither did I forget to mention the anxiety I felt about my child; nor did I neglect
to express my intention of paying an affectionate compliment to its mother on my return. I
desired my friends to reply immediately on receiving my letters. Nearly five weeks have elapsed
since I wrote, but no answer has been received yet. I however expect something by the next
English mail. I am living in suspense; a dreadful feeling indeed to endure. Had my health and
means permitted, I would have gone directly to England on my return from the expedition. Instead
thereof I sent the letters referred to, and having rested in this city a couple of weeks, I
went down to Kingston to visit an old acquaintance who had emigrated thither a few years ago;
but when I arrived there I discovered with disappointment that he had recently removed to the
State of Minnesota. It was then, sir, that I had the pleasure of meeting with you. Your kindness
and familiarity on that occasion, and also since, have been as medicine to my soul. I have
considered you as a genial and sympathetic friend. I have told you the history of my past career.
I trust to God that my future will be characterised with less unfortunate events, but with
deeds more worthy of being told. I feel, and I know that I have been the author of my own wretchedness
and folly. I have wasted my time, my money, and my energies in dissipation. I have feasted
my conceited fancies upon glory as light and transient as the flying gossamer: and besides
all this, I have done injustice to my parents--to my child--and to her who gave it birth. I
have wronged her with cruel heart, a heart that has recoiled upon itself, and now stings its
own affections in the madness of remorse. But worse than all, I have done injustice to my Maker.
I have mocked at His mercy. I have insulted His dignity. I have trampled upon His laws. Oh!
miserable wretch that I have been! However, I have resolved to live a better life. I trust
to God that through His divine power I shall be enabled to abstain from intoxicating liquor
and evil company."

"I intend returning to England in December next," continued Frederick, after a few moments
silence. "Yesterday I met with a gentleman who formerly belonged to London, and with whom I
was somewhat acquainted. He is now a resident of Hamilton, some 50 miles from here, and does
a large business as an upholsterer. He offered me immediate employment, at $1.50 per day. I
have engaged with him for two months, at the expiration of which time, if health permit, I
will ship myself for England. So that no time may be lost I shall leave for Hamilton to-morrow
morning, to be ready to commence work on Monday.

"Now, sir, as you intend remaining in Toronto for a week or two you will indeed favor me by
calling at the Post-Office, especially when the next English Mail arrives, and any letters
or newspapers addressed to me, please forward immediately."

I promised faithfully to do so:--and having thanked him for his favors I bade him good-bye
for the present, expressing a wish that I would find him in a happier state of feelings at
our next interview.

CHAPTER IX.

Having returned to the hotel at which I was staying I retired immediately to bed. I slept but
little during the night, my fancy having been kept awake by the expressive interview of the
preceding evening. The eventful narrative of Frederick Charlston's career was ever present
to my mind, producing feelings akin to those of an experienced reality. But the most striking
characteristic was the singular dream to which I have alluded. Dreams in general are nothing
more than the echoes of the soul, or the breathings of imagination when the consciousness of
the mind is in a latent state. Some dreams however, may be the productions of a spiritual agency
photographing as it were through the electric telegraph of the soul the impressions of the
real event upon the mind of the person who is absent, causing strange forebodings to loom up
in the horizon of imagination. Be this as it may, it is a well known fact, that dreams have
been occasionally verified. Thousands of them, however, are by the dreamer construed to suit
circumstances. But the millions of these visions that arise nightly from the bed-chambers of
the world are nothing more than the flickerings of the mind, at random, and like vapor, arising
into the atmosphere of the soul, frequently assuming a variety of fantastic forms as a metamorphoses
of preconceived ideas.

Immediately on hearing of the arrival of the English Mail I hurried down to the Post-Office,
and inquired of the gentleman in attendance if there were anything for Frederick Charlston.
Shuffling over a pile of letters he drew one out and handed it to me. It was mounted with deep
mourning, and heavily sealed with black sealing wax. I was startled at the appearance thereof.
I took but a momentary gaze and requested him to forward it by the next mail to Hamilton. I
felt an anxious curiosity to know the contents of the Black-Sealed Letter. I felt certain that
some of Frederick's relatives had recently died. The aspect of his dream more forcibly impressed
itself upon my mind. But let a few days more pass away, and the mystery will be solved.

At the end of the second week after this occurrence I went up to Hamilton: and shortly after
my arrival called upon the Upholsterer. He told me that Frederick had not been at the workshop
during the past few days, owing to an attack of illness. He directed me to the hotel at which
Frederick was boarding. I went there, and was by the innkeeper shown into a bedroom, in which
he was reclining upon a couch reading a newspaper. On seeing me he sprang forward and grasped
my hand affectionately in his own, and began sobbing aloud, the tears gushing from his eyes.
For a few seconds I stood motionless in sad bewilderment of mind, feeling assured that something
of a serious nature had occurred. At length I ventured to express a desire to know what had
happened. He then drew from his pocket a letter, and handed it to me. I recognized it at once
as the "Black-Sealed-Letter." I opened it with trembling hand, and read as follows:

    "London, England, Sept. 20th, 1870.

    "Dear Cousin Frederick.--I received your letter of the 28th ultimo on
    the 18th inst., and was sorry indeed to hear of your illness, from
    which I hope you have completely recovered. It gives me pleasure
    however to know that you will again be amongst us. No doubt you will
    feel happy to see your old friends again. But short as the time has
    been since you left, you will find on your return that eventful
    changes have taken place. Our life on earth is only a struggle with
    itself, too frequently surrounded with adverse circumstances, that
    are prolific with sad events, and gloomy with suffering and
    disappointment. And were it not that the Star of Bethlehem still
    shines in the firmament of Heaven the glory of this world would
    transmit but a dim light upon the soul of the Christian life. Then be
    prepared, my dear friend, to endure the ills of adversity with a
    noble heart. Although a dark shadow may fall suddenly upon your
    earthly vision, at once direct your eyes in faith towards the Star of
    Celestial Glory; and the light of Heaven will dispel the darkness,
    even, were it the shadow of Death.

    "You desired of me to give particular information respecting Clara
    Hazeldon. In accordance with your request I suppose I must do so.
    Through disappointment, in hoping against hope, she became low
    spirited, and failed considerably in health; and, on hearing of your
    intended adventure in the Red River expedition, relinquished every
    hope of your return, and shortly afterwards became the wife of
    Charles Holstrom.

    "Your child is still in your father's family, and is a
    bright-eyed-healthy-looking boy, resembling you very much indeed. At
    the request of your relatives, but with considerable reluctance on
    my part, I now undertake to inform you of an event which has recently
    occurred in your own family. They consider it better to make it known
    to you by letter than allow the reality unexpectedly to force itself
    upon your mind at your return.

