Such was the pair who ruled in the old Silverado Hotel, among the windy trees, on the mountain
shoulder overlooking the whole length of Napa Valley, as the man aloft looks down on the ship's
deck. There they kept house, with sundry horses and fowls, and a family of sons, Daniel Webster,
and I think George Washington, among the number.  Nor did they want visitors.  An old gentleman,
of singular stolidity, and called Breedlove--I think he had crossed the plains in the same
caravan with Rufe--housed with them for awhile during our stay; and they had besides a permanent
lodger, in the form of Mrs. Hanson's brother, Irvine Lovelands.  I spell Irvine by guess; for
I could get no information on the subject, just as I could never find out, in spite of many
inquiries, whether or not Rufe was a contraction for Rufus.  They were all cheerfully at sea
about their names in that generation.  And this is surely the more notable where the names
are all so strange, and even the family names appear to have been coined.  At one time, at
least, the ancestors of all these Alvins and Alvas, Loveinas, Lovelands, and Breedloves, must
have taken serious council and found a certain poetry in these denominations; that must have
been, then, their form of literature.  But still times change; and their next descendants,
the George Washingtons and Daniel Websters, will at least be clear upon the point.  And anyway,
and however his name should be spelt, this Irvine Lovelands was the most unmitigated Caliban
I ever knew.

Our very first morning at Silverado, when we were full of business, patching up doors and windows,
making beds and seats, and getting our rough lodging into shape, Irvine and his sister made
their appearance together, she for neighbourliness and general curiosity; he, because he was
working for me, to my sorrow, cutting firewood at I forget how much a day.  The way that he
set about cutting wood was characteristic.  We were at that moment patching up and unpacking
in the kitchen.  Down he sat on one side, and down sat his sister on the other.  Both were
chewing pine-tree gum, and he, to my annoyance, accompanied that simple pleasure with profuse
expectoration.  She rattled away, talking up hill and down dale, laughing, tossing her head,
showing her brilliant teeth.  He looked on in silence, now spitting heavily on the floor, now
putting his head back and uttering a loud, discordant, joyless laugh.  He had a tangle of shock
hair, the colour of wool; his mouth was a grin; although as strong as a horse, he looked neither
heavy nor yet adroit, only leggy, coltish, and in the road.  But it was plain he was in high
spirits, thoroughly enjoying his visit; and he laughed frankly whenever we failed to accomplish
what we were about.  This was scarcely helpful:  it was even, to amateur carpenters, embarrassing;
but it lasted until we knocked off work and began to get dinner.  Then Mrs. Hanson remembered
she should have been gone an hour ago; and the pair retired, and the lady's laughter died away
among the nutmegs down the path.  That was Irvine's first day's work in my employment--the
devil take him!

The next morning he returned and, as he was this time alone, he bestowed his conversation upon
us with great liberality.  He prided himself on his intelligence; asked us if we knew the school
ma'am. HE didn't think much of her, anyway.  He had tried her, he had.  He had put a question
to her.  If a tree a hundred feet high were to fall a foot a day, how long would it take to
fall right down?  She had not been able to solve the problem.  "She don't know nothing," he
opined.  He told us how a friend of his kept a school with a revolver, and chuckled mightily
over that; his friend could teach school, he could.  All the time he kept chewing gum and spitting.
He would stand a while looking down; and then he would toss back his shock of hair, and laugh
hoarsely, and spit, and bring forward a new subject.  A man, he told us, who bore a grudge
against him, had poisoned his dog.  "That was a low thing for a man to do now, wasn't it? 
It wasn't like a man, that, nohow.  But I got even with him:  I pisoned HIS dog."  His clumsy
utterance, his rude embarrassed manner, set a fresh value on the stupidity of his remarks.
I do not think I ever appreciated the meaning of two words until I knew Irvine--the verb, loaf,
and the noun, oaf; between them, they complete his portrait.  He could lounge, and wriggle,
and rub himself against the wall, and grin, and be more in everybody's way than any other two
people that I ever set my eyes on.  Nothing that he did became him; and yet you were conscious
that he was one of your own race, that his mind was cumbrously at work, revolving the problem
of existence like a quid of gum, and in his own cloudy manner enjoying life, and passing judgment
on his fellows. After washing my and perfume have continued
twice a day, giving me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where
I ended up forgetting my austere Zoroaster and preaching, and convinced that in this life be sought
to have the best possible, without engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and
none more so than who is mixed to censure the vices of others, if only you have missed the chance
to fall on them, or when, if they have not fallen, it must be to
ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I
put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of
that wise admirable.

I was desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and shameless rogue necklace,
but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing
that Parsondes was up to the empyrean, and to continue to venerate his image without discovering never before
flatly denying that Parsondes lived with the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar. In this
awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court.
- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth
and less Nanar coast the day can seduce upbraideth Parsondes that
immorality and vices, moved, not charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts without having it under probadísima! Blessed are those who practice it and
shut up! THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO OR BLUE SALAMANDER I've always been fond of science. When
young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am old, the prevailing scientific hobby and triumphs
in my soul. Unfortunately or fortunately happens to me something
very singular.

I like science inversely delas truths that are showing exactly.

So I just am interested in sciences, and inaccurate I love.

Hence my penchant for philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of
subtlety and imagination that is used to discover the truth, but undetected.

Once the truth discovered, well proven and patent, usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young
man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose waist walk gracefully and which excited
him, and then forward, looks at his face and sees that it is old, or
one-eyed, or have nosed monkey .

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to
be pretty.

Were
quieted in their possession and enjoyment would become silly. Better, then, we know little.
What matters is knowing enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough to explain
or clarify. Thus curiosity is aroused, it stirs the imagination and invent theories, dogmas
and other witticisms, entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which would lack,
being a thousand times more unhappy, if not pure rough We present
the mystery, or if we should reach working pure deep and unravel its
true meaning.

  I pointed out to him that I could not continue to give
him a salary for spitting on the floor; and this expression, which came after a good many others,
at last penetrated his obdurate wits.  He rose at once, and said if that was the way he was
going to be spoke to, he reckoned he would quit.  And, no one interposing, he departed.

So far, so good.  But we had no firewood.  The next afternoon, I strolled down to Rufe's and
consulted him on the subject.  It was a very droll interview, in the large, bare north room
of the Silverado Hotel, Mrs. Hanson's patchwork on a frame, and Rufe, and his wife, and I,
and the oaf himself, all more or less embarrassed. Rufe announced there was nobody in the neighbourhood
but Irvine who could do a day's work for anybody.  Irvine, thereupon, refused to have any more
to do with my service; he "wouldn't work no more for a man as had spoke to him's I had done."
I found myself on the point of the last humiliation--driven to beseech the creature whom I
had just dismissed with insult:  but I took the high hand in despair, said there must be no
talk of Irvine coming back unless matters were to be differently managed; that I would rather
chop firewood for myself than be fooled; and, in short, the Hansons being eager for the lad's
hire, I so imposed upon them with merely affected resolution, that they ended by begging me
to re-employ him again, on a solemn promise that he should be more industrious.  The promise,
I am bound to say, was kept.  We soon had a fine pile of firewood at our door; and if Caliban
gave me the cold shoulder and spared me his conversation, I thought none the worse of him for
that, nor did I find my days much longer for the deprivation.

The leading spirit of the family was, I am inclined to fancy, Mrs. Hanson.  Her social brilliancy
somewhat dazzled the others, and she had more of the small change of sense.  It was she who
faced Kelmar, for instance; and perhaps, if she had been alone, Kelmar would have had no rule
within her doors.  Rufe, to be sure, had a fine, sober, open-air attitude of mind, seeing the
world without exaggeration--perhaps, we may even say, without enough; for he lacked, along
with the others, that commercial idealism which puts so high a value on time and money.  Sanity
itself is a kind of convention.  Perhaps Rufe was wrong; but, looking on life plainly, he was
unable to perceive that croquet or poker were in any way less important than, for instance,
mending his waggon.  Even his own profession, hunting, was dear to him mainly as a sort of
play; even that he would have neglected, had it not appealed to his imagination.  His hunting-suit,
for instance, had cost I should be afraid to say how many bucks--the currency in which he paid
his way:  it was all befringed, after the Indian fashion, and it was dear to his heart.  The
pictorial side of his daily business was never forgotten.  He was even anxious to stand for
his picture in those buckskin hunting clothes; and I remember how he once warmed almost into
enthusiasm, his dark blue eyes growing perceptibly larger, as he planned the composition in
which he should appear, "with the horns of some real big bucks, and dogs, and a camp on a crick"
(creek, stream).

There was no trace in Irvine of this woodland poetry.  He did not care for hunting, nor yet
for buckskin suits.  He had never observed scenery.  The world, as it appeared to him, was
almost obliterated by his own great grinning figure in the foreground: Caliban Malvolio.  And
it seems to me as if, in the persons of these brothers-in-law, we had the two sides of rusticity
fairly well represented:  the hunter living really in nature; the clodhopper living merely
out of society:  the one bent up in every corporal agent to capacity in one pursuit, doing
at least one thing keenly and thoughtfully, and thoroughly alive to all that touches it; the
other in the inert and bestial state, walking in a faint dream, and taking so dim an impression
of the myriad sides of life that he is truly conscious of nothing but himself.  It is only
in the fastnesses of nature, forests, mountains, and the back of man's beyond, that a creature
endowed with five senses can grow up into the perfection of this crass and earthy vanity. 
In towns or the busier country sides, he is roughly reminded of other men's existence; and
if he learns no more, he learns at least to fear contempt.  But Irvine had come scatheless
through life, conscious only of himself, of his great strength and intelligence; and in the
silence of the universe, to which he did not listen, dwelling with delight on the sound of
his own thoughts.

THE SEA FOGS

A change in the colour of the light usually called me in the morning.  By a certain hour, the
long, vertical chinks in our western gable, where the boards had shrunk and separated, flashed
suddenly into my eyes as stripes of dazzling blue, at once so dark and splendid that I used
to marvel how the qualities could be combined.  At an earlier hour, the heavens in that quarter
were still quietly coloured, but the shoulder of the mountain which shuts in the canyon already
glowed with sunlight in a wonderful compound of gold and rose and green; and this too would
kindle, although more mildly and with rainbow tints, the fissures of our crazy gable.  If I
were sleeping heavily, it was the bold blue that struck me awake; if more lightly, then I would
come to myself in that earlier and fairier fight.

One Sunday morning, about five, the first brightness called me.  I rose and turned to the east,
not for my devotions, but for air. The night had been very still.  The little private gale
that blew every evening in our canyon, for ten minutes or perhaps a quarter of an hour, had
swiftly blown itself out; in the hours that followed not a sigh of wind had shaken the treetops;
and our barrack, for all its breaches, was less fresh that morning than of wont.  But I had
no sooner reached the window than I forgot all else in the sight that met my eyes, and I made
but two bounds into my clothes, and down the crazy plank to the platform.

The sun was still concealed below the opposite hilltops, though it was shining already, not
twenty feet above my head, on our own mountain slope. The chronic habit resulted all from her. Otherwise,
the view that was presented around his deathbed, meanwhile, the priest attended to a good death,
it would have been poignant to hasten it.
It was as though I had gone to bed the night before, safe in a nook of inland mountains, and
had awakened in a bay upon the coast.  I had seen these inundations from below; at Calistoga
I had risen and gone abroad in the early morning, coughing and sneezing, under fathoms on fathoms
of gray sea vapour, like a cloudy sky--a dull sight for the artist, and a painful experience
for the invalid.  But to sit aloft one's self in the pure air and under the unclouded dome
of heaven, and thus look down on the submergence of the valley, was strangely different and
even delightful to the eyes.  Far away were hilltops like little islands.  Nearer, a smoky
surf beat about the foot of precipices and poured into all the coves of these rough mountains.
The colour of that fog ocean was a thing never to be forgotten.  For an instant, among the
Hebrides and just about sundown, I have seen something like it on the sea itself.  But the
white was not so opaline; nor was there, what surprisingly increased the effect, that breathless,
crystal stillness over all. Even in its gentlest moods the salt sea travails, moaning among
the weeds or lisping on the sand; but that vast fog ocean lay in a trance of silence, nor did
the sweet air of the morning tremble with a sound.

As I continued to sit upon the dump, I began to observe that this sea was not so level as at
first sight it appeared to be. This answered:-A fire in Jesus on
the mount; the other:-an uprising of black in the tannery of Xifré; one:-A theft on the streets
of the figures; who:-A killed.

The last talk was the only one that approached the truth, confirming the news something after three
in the afternoon, with many fanfare and disjointed words, the carretillero or waterseller Polanco.
Well known in the neighborhood, his appearance in the high street was greeted with an escopeteo
grained and crossed of questions from window to window. Idle was that job, because of their own
initiative came announcing the death alevosa of Tondá, in front
of the shoe of the Manrique street corner to the Maloja  This set me looking nearer, and I saw
that in every cove along the line of mountains the fog was being piled in higher and higher,
as though by some wind that was inaudible to me.  I could trace its progress, one pine tree
first growing hazy and then disappearing after another; although sometimes there was none of
this fore-running haze, but the whole opaque white ocean gave a start and swallowed a piece
of mountain at a gulp.  It was to flee these poisonous fogs that I had left the seaboard, and
climbed so high among the mountains.  And now, behold, here came the fog to besiege me in my
chosen altitudes, and yet came so beautifully that my first thought was of welcome.

The sun had now gotten much higher, and through all the gaps of the hills it cast long bars
of gold across that white ocean.  An eagle, or some other very great bird of the mountain,
came wheeling over the nearer pine-tops, and hung, poised and something sideways, as if to
look abroad on that unwonted desolation, spying, perhaps with terror, for the eyries of her
comrades.  Then, with a long cry, she disappeared again towards Lake County and the clearer
air.  At length it seemed to me as if the flood were beginning to subside. The old landmarks,
by whose disappearance I had measured its advance, here a crag, there a brave pine tree, now
began, in the inverse order, to make their reappearance into daylight.  I judged all danger
of the fog was over.  This was not Noah's flood; it was but a morning spring, and would now
drift out seaward whence it came.  So, mightily relieved, and a good deal exhilarated by the
sight, I went into the house to light the fire. What has been lost?

My husband, replied Mariá de Regla flatly.

The suddenness of the question had given no time to disguise her
thoughts.

"Your Mario", the butcher said unbelievingly. Have you
thrown yourself into a search?  The wind
had climbed along with it; and though I was still in calm air, I could see the trees tossing
below me, and their long, strident sighing mounted to me where I stood.

