The last two weeks in May and the first in June were full of glamour in crowded, stirring Louisbourg.
There was Wolfe's picked army of nine thousand men, with Saunders's mighty fleet of fifty men-of-war,
mounting two thousand guns, comprising a quarter of the whole Royal Navy, and convoying more
than two hundred transports and provision ships; all coming and going, landing, embarking,
drilling, dividing, massing; every one expectant of glorious results and eager to begin. Who
wouldn't be for the front at the climax of a war like this?

Then came the final orders issued in Louisbourg. '1st June, 1759. The Troops land no more.
The flat-bottomed boats to be hoisted in, that the ships may be ready to sail at the first
signal.' '2nd June, 1759. The Admiral purposes sailing the first fair wind.' On the 4th a hundred
and forty-one sail weighed anchor together. All that day and the next they were assembling
outside and making for the island of Scatari, just beyond the point of Cape Breton, which is
only ten miles north of Louisbourg. By noon on the 6th the last speck of white had melted away
from the Louisbourg horizon and the men for the front were definitely parted from those left
behind at the base.

Great things were dared and done at the front that year, in Europe, Asia, and America. But
nothing was done at dull little Louisbourg, except the wearisome routine of a disgustingly
safe base. Rocks, bogs, fogs, sand, and scrubby bush ashore. Tantalizing news from the stirring
outside world afloat. So the long, blank, summer days wore through.

The second winter proved a little more comfortable than the first had been. But there was less,
far less, for the garrison to expect in the spring. In February 1760 the death-warrant of Louisbourg
was signed in London by Pitt and King George II. In the following summer it was executed by
Captain John Byron, R. N., the poet's grandfather. Sailors, sappers, and miners worked for
months together, laying the pride of Louisbourg level with the dust. That they carried out
their orders with grim determination any one can see to-day by visiting the grave in which
they buried so many French ambitions.

All the rest of Ile Royale lost its French life in the same supreme catastrophe--the little
forts and trading-posts, the fishing-villages and hamlets; even the farms along the Mira, which
once were thought so like the promise of a second French Acadia.

Nothing remains of that dead past, anywhere inland, except a few gnarled, weather-beaten stumps
of carefully transplanted plum and apple trees, with, here and there, a straggling little patch
of pale, forlorn narcissus, now soothing the alien air in vain, round shapeless ruins, as absolute
and lone as those of Louisbourg itself.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

There is no complete naval and military history of Louisbourg, in either French or English.
The first siege is a prominent feature in all histories of Canada, New England, and the United
States, though it is not much noticed in works written in the mother country. The second siege
is noticed everywhere. The beginning and end of the story is generally ignored, and the naval
side is always inadequately treated.

