"What!" cried Johnnie, "not going to church to-day?" She had lost much of her fear of him,
for in his rambles he frequently met her and Alf, and usually spoke to them. Moreover, she
had repeatedly seen him at their fireside, and he ever had a smile for her. The morbid are
often fearless with children, believing that, like the lower orders of life, they have little
power to observe that anything is amiss, and therefore are neither apt to be repelled nor curious
and suspicious. This in a sense is true, and yet their instincts are keen. But Mr. Alvord was
not selfish or coarse; above all he was not harsh. To Johnnie he only seemed strange, quiet,
and unhappy, and she had often heard her mother say, "Poor Mr. Alvord!" Therefore, when he
said, "I don't go to church; if I had a little girl like you to sit by me, I might feel differently,"
her heart was touched, and she replied, impulsively: "I'll sit by you, Mr. Alvord. I'll sit
with you all by ourselves, if you will only go to church to-day. Why, it's Easter."

"Mr. Alvord," said Amy, gently, "that's an unusual offer for shy Johnnie to make. You don't
know what a compliment you have received, and I think you will make the child very happy if
you comply."

"Could I make you happier by sitting with you in church to-day?" he asked, in a low voice,
offering the child his hand.

"Yes," she replied, simply.

"Come, then. You lead the way, for you know best where to go." She gave her vase to Amy, and
led him into a side seat near her father's pew--one that she had noted as unoccupied of late.
"It's early yet Do you mind sitting here until service begins?" he asked.

"Oh, no. I like to sit here and look at the flowers;" and the first comers glanced wonderingly
at the little girl and her companion, who was a stranger to them and to the sanctuary. Amy
explained matters to Leonard and Maggie at the door when they arrived, and Easter-Sunday had
new and sweeter meanings to them.

The spring had surely found its way into Mr. Barkdale's sermon also, and its leaves, as he
turned them, were not autumn leaves, which, even though brilliant, suggest death and sad changes.
One of his thoughts was much commented upon by the Cliffords, when, in good old country style,
the sermon was spoken of at dinner. "The God we worship," he said, "is the God of life, of
nature. In his own time and way he puts forth his power. We can employ this power and make
it ours. Many of you will do this practically during the coming weeks. You sow seed, plant
trees, and seek to shape others into symmetrical form by pruning-knife and saw. What is your
expectation? Why, that the great power that is revivifying nature will take up the work here
you leave off, and carry it forward. All the skill and science in the world could not create
a field of waving grain, nor all the art of one of these flowers. How immensely the power of
God supplements the labor of man in those things which minister chiefly to his lower nature!
Can you believe that he will put forth so much energy that the grain may mature and the flower
bloom, and yet not exert far greater power than man himself may develop according to the capabilities
of his being? The forces now exist in the earth and in the air to make the year fruitful, but
you must intelligently avail yourselves of them. You must sow, plant, and cultivate. The power
ever exists that can redeem us from evil, heal the wounds that sin has made, and develop the
manhood and womanhood that Heaven receives and rewards. With the same resolute intelligence
you must lay hold upon this ever-present spiritual force if you would be lifted up."

After the service there were those who would ostentatiously recognize and encourage Mr. Alvord;
but the Cliffords, with better breeding, quietly and cordially greeted him, and that was all.
At the door he placed Johnnie's hand in her mother's, and gently said, "Good-by;" but the pleased
smile of the child and Mrs. Leonard followed him. As he entered his porch, other maternal eyes
rested upon him, and the brooding bluebird on her nest seemed to say, with Johnnie, "I am not
afraid of you." Possibly to the lonely man this may prove Easter-Sunday in very truth, and
hope, that he had thought buried forever, come from its grave.

In the afternoon all the young people started for the hills, gleaning the earliest flowers,
and feasting their eyes on the sunlit landscapes veiled with soft haze from the abundant moisture
with which the air was charged. As the sun sank low in the many-hued west, and the eastern
mountains clothed themselves in royal purple, Webb chanced to be alone, near Amy, and she said:

"You have had that flower all day, and I have not had your thoughts."

"Oh, yes, you have--a great many of them."

"You know that isn't what I mean. You promised to tell me what you were thinking about so deeply
this morning."

He looked at her smilingly a moment, and then his face grew gentle and grave as he replied:
"I can scarcely explain, Amy. I am learning that thoughts which are not clear-cut and definite
may make upon us the strongest impressions. They cause us to feel that there is much that we
only half know and half understand as yet. You and your flowers seemed to interpret to me the
meaning of this day as I never understood it before. Surely its deepest significance is life,
happy, hopeful life, with escape from its grosser elements, and as you stood there you embodied
that idea."

"Oh, Webb," she cried, in comic perplexity, "you are getting too deep for me. I was only arranging
flowers, and not thinking about embodying anything. But go on."

"If you had been, you would have spoiled everything," he resumed, laughing. "I can't explain;
I can only suggest the rest in a sentence or two. Look at the shadow creeping up yonder mountain--very
dark blue on the lower side of the moving line and deep purple above. Listen to these birds
around us. Well, every day I see and hear and appreciate these things better, and I thought
that you were to blame."

"Am I very much to blame?" she inquired, archly.

"Yes, very much," was his laughing answer. "It seems to me that a few months since I was like
the old man with the muck-rake in 'Pilgrim's Progress,' seeking to gather only money, facts,
and knowledge--things of use. I now am finding so much that is useful which I scarcely looked
at before that I am revising my philosophy, and like it much better. The simple truth is, I
needed just such a sister as you are to keep me from plodding."

Burt now appeared with a handful of rue-anemones, obtained by a rapid climb to a very sunny
nook. They were the first of the season, and he justly believed that Amy would be delighted
with them. But the words of Webb were more treasured, for they filled her with a pleased wonder.
She had seen the changes herself to which he referred; but how could a simple girl wield such
an influence over the grave, studious man? That was the puzzle of puzzles. It was an enigma
that she would be long in solving, and yet the explanation was her own simplicity, her truthfulness
to all the conditions of unaffected girlhood.

On the way to the house Webb delighted Johnnie and Alf by gathering sprays of the cherry, peach,
pear, and plum, saying, "Put them in water by a sunny window, and see which will bloom first,
these sprays or the trees out-of-doors." The supper-table was graced by many woodland trophies--the
"tawny pendants" of the alder that Thoreau said dusted his coat with sulphur-like pollen as
he pressed through them to "look for mud-turtles," pussy willows now well developed, the hardy
ferns, arbutus, and other harbingers of spring, while the flowers that had been brought back
from the church filled the room with fragrance. To gentle Mrs. Clifford, dwelling as she ever
must among the shadows of pain and disease, this was the happiest day of the year, for it pointed
forward to immortal youth and strength, and she loved to see it decked and garlanded like a
bride. And so Easter passed, and became a happy memory.

CHAPTER XXVI

VERY MOODY

The next morning Amy, on looking from her window, could scarcely believe she was awake. She
had retired with her mind full of spring and spring-time beauty, but the world without had
now the aspect of January. The air was one swirl of snow, and trees, buildings--everything
was white. In dismay she hastened to join the family, but was speedily reassured.

"There is nothing monotonous in American weather, and you must get used to our sharp alternations,"
said Mr. Clifford. "This snow will do good rather than harm, and the lawn will actually look
green after it has melted, as it will speedily. The thing we dread is a severe frost at a far
later date than this. The buds are still too dormant to be injured, but I have known the apples
to be frozen on the trees when as large as walnuts."

"Such snows are called the poor man's manure," Webb remarked, "and fertilizing gases, to a
certain amount, do become entangled in the large wet flakes, and so are carried into the soil.
But the poor man will assuredly remain poor if he has no other means of enriching his land.
What a contrast to yesterday! The house on the northeast side looks as if built of snow, so
evenly is it plastered over. I pity the birds. They have scarcely sung this morning, and they
look as if thoroughly disgusted."

Amy and Johnnie shared in the birds' disapproval, but Alf had a boy's affinity for snow, and
resolved to construct an immense fort as soon as the storm permitted. Before the day had far
declined the heavy flakes ceased, and the gusty wind died away. Johnnie forgot the budding
flowers in their winding-sheet, and joyously aided in the construction of the fort. Down the
sloping lawn they rolled the snowballs, that so increased with every revolution that they soon
rose above the children's heads, and Webb and Burt's good-natured help was required to pile
them into ramparts. At the entrance of the stronghold an immense snow sentinel was fashioned,
with a cord-wood stick for a musket. The children fairly sighed for another month of winter.

All night long Nature, in a heavy fall of rain, appeared to weep that she had been so capricious,
and the morning found her in as uncomfortable a mood as could be imagined. The slush was ankle-deep,
with indefinite degrees of mud beneath, the air chilly and raw, and the sky filled with great
ragged masses of cloud, so opaque and low that they appeared as if disrupted by some dynamic
force, and threatened to fall upon the shadowed land. But between them the sun darted many
a smile at his tear-stained mistress. At last they took themselves off like ill-affected meddlers
in a love match, and the day grew bright and warm. By evening, spring, literally and figuratively,
had more than regained lost ground, for, as Mr. Clifford had predicted, the lawn had a distinct
emerald hue. Thenceforth the season moved forward as if there were to be no more regrets and
nonsense. An efficient ally in the form of a southwest wind came to the aid of the sun, and
every day Nature responded with increasing favor. Amy no more complained that an American April
was like early March in England; and as the surface of the land grew warm and dry it was hard
for her to remain in-doors, there was so much of life, bustle, and movement without. Buds were
swelling on every side. Those of the lilac were nearly an inch long, and emitted a perfume
of the rarest delicacy, far superior to that of the blossoms to come. The nests of the earlier
birds were in all stages of construction, and could be seen readily in the leafless trees.
Snakes were crawling from their holes, and lay sunning themselves in the roads, to her and
Johnnie's dismay. Alf captured turtles that, deep in the mud, had learned the advent of spring
as readily as the creatures of the air. The fish were ascending the swollen streams. "Each
rill," as Thoreau wrote, "is peopled with new life rushing up it." Abram and Alf were planning
a momentous expedition to a tumbling dam on the Moodna, the favorite resort of the sluggish
suckers. New chicks were daily breaking their shells, and their soft, downy, ball-like little
bodies were more to Amy's taste than the peepers of the marsh.

One Saturday morning Alf rushed in, announcing with breathless haste that "Kitten had a calf."
Kitten was a fawn-colored Alderney, the favorite of the barnyard, and so gentle that even Johnnie
did not fear to rub her rough nose, scratch her between her horns, or bring her wisps of grass
when she was tied near the house. Her calf was unlike all other calves. There was no rest until
Amy had seen it, and she admitted that she had never looked upon a more innocent and droll
little visage. At the children's pleading the infant cow was given to them, but they were warned
to leave it for the present to Abram and Kitten's care, for the latter was inclined to act
like a veritable old cat when any one made too free with her bovine baby.

This bright Saturday occurring about the middle of the month completely enthroned spring in
the children's hearts. The air was sweet with fragrance from the springing grass and swelling
buds, and so still and humid that sounds from other farms and gardens, and songs from distant
fields and groves, blended softly yet distinctly with those of the immediate vicinage. The
sunshine was warm, but veiled by fleecy clouds; and as the day advanced every member of the
family was out-of-doors, even to Mrs. Clifford, for whom had been constructed, under her husband's
direction, a low garden-chair which was so light that even Alf or Amy could draw it easily
along the walks. From it she stepped down on her first visit of the year to her beloved flower-beds,
which Alf and Burt were patting in order for her, the latter blending with, his filial attentions
the hope of seeing more of Amy. Nor was he unrewarded, for his manner toward his mother, whom
he alternately petted and chaffed, while at the same time doing her bidding with manly tenderness,
won the young girl's hearty good-will. The only drawback was his inclination to pet her furtively
even more. She wished that Webb was preparing the flower-beds, for then there would be nothing
to perplex or worry her. But he, with his father and Leonard, was more prosaically employed,
for they were at work in the main or vegetable garden. It was with a sense of immense relief
that she heard Mrs. Clifford, after she had given her final directions, and gloated over the
blooming crocuses and daffodils, and the budding hyacinths and tulips, express a wish to join
her husband.

"Come back soon," pleaded Burt.

"I'm your mother's pony to-day," she replied, and hastened away. A wide path bordered on either
side by old-fashioned perennials and shrubbery led down through the garden. Amy breathed more
freely as soon as she gained it, and at once gave herself up to the enjoyment of the pleasing
sights and sounds on every side. Mr. Clifford was the picture of placid content as he sat on
a box in the sun, cutting potatoes into the proper size for planting. Johnnie was perched on
another box near, chattering incessantly as she handed him the tubers, and asking no other
response than the old gentleman's amused smile. Leonard with a pair of stout horses was turning
up the rich black mould, sinking his plow to the beam, and going twice in a furrow. It would
require a very severe drought to affect land pulverized thus deeply, for under Leonard's thorough
work the root pasturage was extended downward eighteen inches. On the side of the plot nearest
to the house Webb was breaking the lumps and levelling the ground with a heavy iron-toothed
rake, and also forking deeply the ends of the furrows that had been trampled by the turning
horses. Leaving Mrs. Clifford chatting and laughing with her husband and Johnnie, Amy stood
in the walk opposite to him, and he said presently:

"Come, Amy, you can help me. You said you wanted a finger in our horticultural pies, and no
doubt had in your mind nothing less plebeian than flower seeds and roses. Will your nose become
retrousse if I ask you to aid me in planting parsnips, oyster-plant, carrots, and--think of
it!--onions?"

"The idea of my helping you, when the best I can do is to amuse you with my ignorance! But
I'll put on no airs. I do not look forward to an exclusive diet of roses, and am quite curious
to know what part I can have in earning my daily vegetables."

"A useful and typical part--that of keeping straight men and things in general. Wait a little;"
and taking up a coiled garden line, he attached one end of it to a stout stake pressed firmly
into the ground. He then walked rapidly over the levelled soil to the further side of the plot,
drew the line "taut," as the sailors say, and tied it to another stake. He next returned toward
Amy, making a shallow drill by drawing a sharp-pointed hoe along under the line. From a basket
near, containing labelled packages of seeds, he made a selection, and poured into a bowl something
that looked like gunpowder grains, and sowed it rapidly in the little furrow. "Now, Amy," he
cried, from the further side of the plot, "do you see that measuring-stick at your feet? Place
one end of it against the stake to which the line is fastened, and move the stake with the
line forward to the other end of the measuring-stick, just as I am doing here. That's it. You
now see how many steps you save me, and how much faster I can get on."

"Are those black-looking grains you are sowing seed?"

"Indeed they are, as a few weeks may prove to you by more senses than one. These are the seeds
of a vegetable inseparable in its associations from classic Italy and renowned in sacred story.
You may not share in the longings of the ancient Hebrews, but with its aid I could easily bring
tears of deep feeling to your eyes."

"The vegetable is more pungent than your wit, Webb," she laughed; but she stood near the path
at the end of the line, which she moved forward from time to time as requested, meanwhile enjoying
an April day that lacked few elements of perfection.

The garden is one of the favorite haunts of the song-sparrow. In the flower-border near, Amy
would hear such a vigorous scratching among the leaves that she might well believe that a motherly
hen was at work, but presently one of these little sober-coated creatures that Thoreau well
calls a "ground-bird" would fly to the top of a plum-tree and trill out a song as sweet as
the perfume that came from the blossoming willows not far away. The busy plows made it a high
festival for the robins, for with a confidence not misplaced they followed near in the furrows
that Leonard was making in the garden, and that Abram was turning on an adjacent hillside,
and not only the comparatively harmless earth-worms suffered, but also the pestiferous larvae
of the May-beetle, the arch-enemy of the strawberry plant. Even on that day of such varied
and etherealized fragrance, the fresh, wholesome odor of the upturned earth was grateful. Suddenly
Webb straightened himself from the sowing of the scale-like parsnip-seed in which he was then
engaged, and said, "Listen." Remote yet distinct, like a dream of a bird-song, came a simple
melody from a distant field. "Welcome," he said. "That's our meadow-lark, Amy; not equal to
your skylark, I admit. Indeed, it is not a lark at all, for Dr. Marvin says it belongs to the
oriole family. Brief and simple as is its song, I think you will agree with me that spring
brings few more lovely sounds. That is the first one that I have heard this year."

She scarcely more than caught the ethereal song before Burt and Alf came down the path, trundling
immense wheelbarrow-loads of the prunings of the shrubbery around the house. These were added
to a great pile of brush and refuse that had accumulated on the other side of the walk, and
to Alf was given the wild excitement of igniting the inflammable mass, and soon there was a
fierce crackling as the flames devoured their way into the loose dry centre of the rejected
debris of the previous year. Then to Alf and Johnnie's unmeasured delight they were permitted
to improvise a miniature prairie fire. A part of the garden had been left to grow very weedy
in the preceding summer, and they were shown how that by lighting the dry, dead material on
the windward side, the flames, driven by a gentle western breeze, would sweep across the entire
plot, leaving it bare and blackened, ready for the fertilizers and the plow. With merry cries
they followed the sweeping line of fire, aiding it forward by catching up on iron rakes burning
wisps and transferring them to spots in the weedy plot that did not kindle readily. Little
Ned, clinging to the hand of Maggie, who had joined the family in the garden, looked on with
awe-struck eyes. From the bonfire and the consuming weeds great volumes of smoke poured up
and floated away, the air was full of pungent odors, and the robins called vociferously back
and forth through the garden, their alarmed and excited cries vying with the children's shouts.
In half an hour only a faint haze of smoke to the eastward indicated the brief conflagration;
the family had gone to the house for their one-o'clock dinner, and the birds were content with
the normal aspect of the old garden in April.

The promise of the bright spring day was not fulfilled. Cold rains followed by frosty mornings
and high cool winds prevailed with depressing persistency. It required almost as much vigor,
courage, and activity as had been essential in March to enjoy out-door life. In many of her
aspects Nature appeared almost to stand still and wait for more genial skies, and yet for those
who watched to greet and to welcome, the mighty impulse of spring manifested itself in many
ways. The currant and gooseberry bushes, as if remembering their original haunts in dim, cold,
boggy forests, put forth their foliage without hesitation. From the elm-trees swung the little
pendent blossoms that precede the leaves. The lilacs and some other hardy shrubs grew green
and fragrant daily. Nothing daunted, the crocuses, hyacinths, and tulips pushed upward their
succulent leaves with steady resolution. In the woods the flowers had all kinds of experiences.
On the north side of Storm King it was still winter, with great areas of December's ice unmelted.
On the south side of the mountain, spring almost kept pace with the calendar. The only result
was that the hardy little children of April, on which had hung more snow-flakes than dew, obtained
a longer lease of blooming life, and could have their share in garlanding the May Queen. They
bravely faced the frosty nights and drenching rains, becoming types of those lives whose beauty
is only enhanced by adversity--of those who make better use of a little sunny prosperity to
bless the world than others on whom good-fortune ever seems to wait.

The last Saturday of the month was looked forward to with hopeful expectations, as a genial
earnest of May, and a chance for out-door pleasures; but with it came a dismal rain-storm,
which left the ground as cold, wet, and sodden as it had been a month before. The backward
season, of which the whole country was now complaining, culminated on the following morning,
which ushered in a day of remarkable vicissitude. By rapid transition the rain passed into
sleet, then snow, which flurried down so rapidly that the land grew white and wintry, making
it almost impossible to imagine that two months of spring had passed. By 10 A.M. the whirling
flakes ceased, but a more sullen, leaden, March-like sky never lowered over a cold, dripping
earth. On the north side of the house a white hyacinth was seen hanging its pendent blossoms
half in and half out of the snow, and Alf, who in response to Dr. Marvin's suggestion was following
some of the family fortunes among the homes in the trees, came in and said that he had found
nests well hidden by a covering all too cold, with the resolute mother bird protecting her
eggs, although chilled, wet, and shivering herself. By 1 P.M. the clouds grew thin, rolled
away, and disappeared. The sun broke out with a determined warmth and power, and the snow vanished
like a spectre of the long-past winter. The birds took heart, and their songs of exultation
resounded from far and near. A warm south breeze sprang up and fanned Amy's cheek, as she,
with the children and Burt, went out for their usual Sunday-afternoon walk. They found the
flowers looking up hopefully, but with melted snow hanging like tears on their pale little
faces. The sun at last sank into the unclouded west, illumining the sky with a warm, golden
promise for the future. Amy gazed at its departing glory, but Burt looked at her--looked so
earnestly, so wistfully, that she was full of compunction even while she welcomed the return
of the children, which delayed the words that were trembling on his lips. He was ready, she
was not; and he walked homeward at her side silent and depressed, feeling that the receptive,
responsive spring was later in her heart than in Nature.

CHAPTER XXVII

SHAD-FISHING BY PROXY

According to the almanac, May was on time to a second, but Nature seemed unaware of the fact.
Great bodies of snow covered the Adirondack region, and not a little still remained all the
way southward through the Catskills and the Highlands, about the headwaters of the Delaware,
and its cold breath benumbed the land. Johnnie's chosen intimates had given her their suffrages
as May Queen; but prudent Maggie had decided that the crowning ceremonies should not take place
until May truly appeared, with its warmth and floral wealth. Therefore, on the first Saturday
of the month, Leonard planned a half-holiday, which should not only compensate the disappointed
children, but also give his busy wife a little outing. He had learned that the tide was right
for crossing the shallows of the Moodna Creek, and they would all go fishing. Johnnie's friends
and Dr. and Mrs. Marvin were invited, and great were the preparations. Reed and all kinds of
poles were taken down from their hooks, or cut in a neighboring thicket, the country store
was depleted of its stock of rusty hooks, and stray corks were fastened on the brown linen
lines for floats. Burt disdained to take his scientific tackle, and indeed there was little
use for it in Moodna Creek, but he joined readily in the frolic. He would be willing to fish
indefinitely for even minnows, if at the same time there was a chance to angle for Amy. Some
preferred to walk to the river, and with the aid of the family rockaway the entire party were
at the boat-house before the sun had passed much beyond the meridian. Burt, from his intimate
knowledge of the channel, acted as pilot, and was jubilant over the fact that Amy consented
to take an oar with him and receive a lesson in rowing. Mrs. Marvin held the tiller-ropes,
and the doctor was to use a pair of oars when requested to do so. Webb and Leonard took charge
of the larger boat, of which Johnnie, as hostess, was captain, and a jolly group of little
boys and girls made the echoes ring, while Ned, with his thumb in his mouth, clung close to
his mother, and regarded the nautical expedition rather dubiously. They swept across the flats
to the deeper water near Plum Point, and so up the Moodna, whose shores were becoming green
with the rank growth of the bordering marsh. Passing under an old covered bridge they were
soon skirting an island from which rose a noble grove of trees, whose swollen buds were only
waiting for a warmer caress of the sun to unfold. Returning, they beached their boats below
the bridge, under whose shadow the fish were fond of lying. The little people were disembarked,
and placed at safe distances; for, if near, they would surely hook each other, if never a fin.
Silence was enjoined, and there was a breathless hush for the space of two minutes; then began
whispers more resonant than those of the stage, followed by acclamations as Johnnie pulled
up a wriggling eel, of which she was in mortal terror. They all had good sport, however, for
the smaller fry of the finny tribes that haunted the vicinity of the old bridge suffered from
the well-known tendency of extreme youth to take everything into its mouth. Indeed, at that
season, an immature sun-fish will take a hook if there is but a remnant of a worm upon it.
The day was good for fishing, since thin clouds darkened the water. Amy was the heroine of
the party, for Burt had furnished her with a long, light pole, and taught her to throw her
line well away from the others. As a result she soon took, amidst excited plaudits, several
fine yellow perch. At last Leonard shouted:

"You shall not have all the honors, Amy. I have a hook in my pocket that will catch bigger
fish than you have seen to-day. Come, the tide is going out, and we must go out of the creek
with it unless we wish to spend the night on a sand-bar. I shall now try my luck at shad-fishing
over by Polopel's Island."

The prospect of crossing the river and following the drift-nets down into the Highlands was
a glad surprise to all, and they were soon in Newburgh Bay, whose broad lake-like surface was
unruffled by a breath. The sun, declining toward the west, scattered rose-hues among the clouds.
Sloops and schooners had lost steerage-way, and their sails flapped idly against the masts.
The grind of oars between the thole-pins came distinctly across the water from far-distant
boats, while songs and calls of birds, faint and etherealized, reached them from the shores.
Rowing toward a man rapidly paying out a net from the stern of his boat they were soon hailed
by Mr. Marks, who with genial good-nature invited them to see the sport. He had begun throwing
his net over in the middle of the river, his oarsman rowing eastward with a slight inclination
toward the south, for the reason that the tide is swifter on the western side. The aim is to
keep the net as straight as possible and at right angles with the tide. The two boats were
soon following Mr. Marks on either side, the smooth water and the absence of wind enabling
them to keep near and converse without effort. Away in their wake bobbed the cork floats in
an irregular line, and from these floats, about twenty feet below the surface, was suspended
the net, which extended down thirty or forty feet further, being kept in a vertical position
by iron rings strung along its lower edge at regular intervals. Thus the lower side of the
net was from fifty to sixty feet below the surface. In shallow water narrower nets are rigged
to float vertically much nearer the surface. Mr. Marks explained that his net was about half
a mile long, adding,

"It's fun fishing on a day like this, but it's rather tough in a gale of wind, with your eyes
half blinded by rain, and the waves breaking into your boat. Yes, we catch just as many then,
perhaps more, for there are fewer men out, and I suppose the weather is always about the same,
except as to temperature, down where the shad are. The fish don't mind wet weather; neither
must we if we make a business of catching them."

"Do you always throw out your net from the west shore toward the east?" Webb asked.

"No, we usually pay out against the wind. With the wind the boat is apt to go too fast. The
great point is to keep the net straight and not all tangled and wobbled up. Passing boats bother
us, too. Sometimes a float will catch on a paddle-wheel, and like enough half of the net will
be torn away. A pilot with any human feeling will usually steer one side, and give a fellow
a chance, and we can often bribe the skipper of sailing-craft by holding up a shad and throwing
it aboard as he tacks around us. As a rule, however, boats of all kinds pass over a net without
doing any harm. Occasionally a net breaks from the floats and drags on the bottom. This is
covered with cinders thrown out by steamers, and they play the mischief."

"Do the fish swim against the tide?"

"Usually, but they come in on both sides."

"Mr. Marks, how can you catch fish in a net that is straight up and down?" Amy asked.

"You'll soon see, but I'll explain. The meshes of the net will stretch five inches. A shad
swims into one of these and then, like many others that go into things, finds he can't back
out, for his gills catch on the sides of the mesh and there he hangs. Occasionally a shad will
just tangle himself up and so be caught, and sometimes we take a large striped bass in this way."

In answer to a question of Burt's he continued: "I just let my net float with the tide as you
see, giving it a pull from one end or the other now and then to keep it as straight and as
near at right angles with the river as possible. When the tide stops running out and turns
a little we begin at one end of the net and pull it up, taking out the fish, at the same time
laying it carefully in folds on a platform in the stern-sheets, so as to prevent any tangles.
If the net comes up clear and free, I may throw it in again and float back with the tide. So
far from being able to depend on this, we often have to go ashore where there is a smooth beach
before our drift is over and disentangle our net. There, now, I'm through, with paying out.
Haven't you noticed the floats bobbing here and there?"

"We've been too busy listening and watching you," said Leonard.

"Well, now, watch the floats. If you see one bob under and wobble, a shad has struck the net
near it, and I can go and take him out. In smooth water it's like fishing with one of your
little cork bobblers there on your lines. I'll give the shad to the first one that sees a float
bob under."

Alf nearly sprang out of the boat as he pointed and shouted, "There, there."

Laughing good-naturedly, Mr. Marks lifted the net beneath the float, and, sure enough, there
was a great roe-shad hanging by his gills, and Alf gloated over his supper, already secured.

The fish were running well, and there were excited calls and frantic pointings, in which at
first even the older members of the party joined, and every few moments a writhing shad flashed
in the slanting rays as it was tossed into the boat. Up and down the long, irregular line of
floats the boats passed and repassed until excitement verged toward satiety, and the sun, near
the horizon, with a cloud canopy of crimson and gold, warned the merry fishers by proxy that
their boats should be turned homeward. Leonard pulled out what he termed his silver hook, and
supplied not only the Clifford family, but all of Johnnie's guests, with fish so fresh that
they had as yet scarcely realized that they were out of water.

"Now, Amy," said Burt, "keep stroke with me," adding, in a whisper, "no fear but that we can
pull well together."

Her response was, "One always associates a song with rowing. Come, strike up, and let us keep
the boats abreast that all may join."

He, well content, started a familiar boating song, to which the splash of their oars made musical
accompaniment. A passing steamer saluted them, and a moment later the boats rose gracefully
over the swells. The glassy river flashed back the crimson of the clouds, the eastern slopes
of the mountains donned their royal purple, the intervening shadows of valleys making the folds
of their robes. As they approached the shore the resonant song of the robins blended with the
human voices. Burt, however, heard only Amy's girlish soprano, and saw but the pearl of her
teeth through her parted lips, the rose in her cheeks, and the snow of her neck.

Final words were spoken and all were soon at home. Maggie took the household helm with a fresh
and vigorous grasp. What a supper she improvised! The maids never dawdled when she directed,
and by the time the hungry fishermen were ready, the shad that two hours before had been swimming
deep in the Hudson lay browned to a turn on the ample platter. "It is this quick transition
that gives to game fish their most exquisite flavor," Burt remarked.

"Are shad put down among the game fish?" his father asked.

"Yes; they were included not very long ago, and most justly, too, as I can testify to-night.
I never tasted anything more delicious, except trout. If a shad were not so bony it would be
almost perfection when eaten under the right conditions. Not many on the Hudson are aware of
the fact, perhaps, but angling for them is fine sport in some rivers. They will take a fly
in the Connecticut and Housatonic; but angle-worms and other bait are employed in the Delaware
and Southern rivers. The best time to catch them is early in the morning, and from six to eight
in the evening. At dusk one may cast for them in still water, as for trout. The Hudson is too
big, I suppose, and the water too deep, although I see no reason why the young fry should not
be caught in our river as well as in the Delaware. I have read of their biting voraciously
in September at a short distance above Philadelphia."

"Do you mean to say that our rivers are full of shad in August and September?" Leonard asked.

"Yes; that is, of young shad on the way to the sea. The females that are running up now will
spawn in the upper and shallow waters of the river, and return to the ocean by the end of June,
and in the autumn the small fry will also go to the sea, the females to remain there two years.
The males will come back next spring, and these young males are called 'chicken shad' on the
Connecticut. Multitudes of these half-grown fish are taken in seines, and sold as herrings
or 'alewives'; for the true herring does not run up into fresh water. Young shad are said to
have teeth, and they live largely on insects, while the full-grown fish have no teeth, and
feed chiefly on animalcules that form the greater part of the slimy growths that cover nearly
everything that is long under water."

"Well, I never had so much shad before in my life," said his father, laughing, and pushing
lack his chair; "and, Burt, I have enjoyed those you have served up in the water almost as
much as those dished under Maggie's superintendence."

"I should suppose that the present mode of fishing with drift-nets was cheaper and more profitable
than the old method of suspending the nets between poles," Leonard remarked.

"It is indeed," Burt continued, vivaciously, for he observed that Amy was listening with interest.
"Poles, too, form a serious obstruction. Once, years ago, I was standing near the guards of
a steamboat, when I heard the most awful grating, rasping sound, and a moment later a shad-pole
gyrated past me with force enough to brain an elephant had it struck him. It was good fun,
though, in old times to go out and see them raise the nets, for they often came up heavy with
fish. Strange to say, a loon was once pulled up with the shad. Driven by fear, it must have
dived so vigorously as to entangle itself, for there it hung with its head and one leg fast.
I suppose that the last moment of consciousness that the poor bird had was one of strong surprise."

CHAPTER XXVIII

MAY AND GIRLHOOD

May came in reality the following morning. Perhaps she thought that the leisure of Sunday would
secure her a more appreciative welcome. The wind no longer blew from the chill and still snowy
North, but from lands that had long since responded to the sun's genial power. Therefore, the
breeze that came and went fitfully was like a warm, fragrant breath, and truly it seemed to
breathe life and beauty into all things. During the morning hours the cluster buds of the cherry
burst their varnished-looking sheath, revealing one-third of the little green stems on which
the blossoms would soon appear. The currant-bushes were hanging out their lengthening racemes,
and the hum of many bees proved that honey may be gathered even from gooseberry-bushes, thus
suggesting a genial philosophy. The sugar-maples were beginning to unfold their leaves and
to dangle their emerald gold flowers from long, drooping pedicles. Few objects have more exquisite
and delicate beauty than this inflorescence when lighted up by the low afternoon sun. The meadows
and oat fields were passing into a vivid green, and the hardy rye had pushed on so resolutely
in all weathers, that it was becoming billowy under the wind. All through the week the hues
of life and beauty became more and more apparent upon the face of Nature, and by the following
Saturday May had provided everything in perfection for Johnnie's coronation ceremonies.

For weeks past there had been distinguished arrivals from the South almost daily. Some of these
songsters, like the fox-sparrow, sojourned a few weeks, favoring all listeners with their sweet
and simple melodies; but the chief musician of the American forests, the hermit thrush, passed
silently, and would not deign to utter a note of his unrivalled minstrelsy until he had reached
his remote haunts at the North. Dr. Marvin evidently had a grudge against this shy, distant
bird, and often complained, "Why can't he give us a song or two as he lingers here in his journey?
I often see him flitting about in the mountains, and have watched him by the hour with the
curiosity that prompts one to look at a great soprano or tenor, hoping that he might indulge
me with a brief song as a sample of what he could do, but he was always royally indifferent
and reserved. I am going to the Adirondacks on purpose to hear him some day. There's the winter
wren, too-saucy, inquisitive little imp!--he was here all winter, and has left us without vouchsafing
a note. But, then, great singers are a law unto themselves the world over."

But the doctor had small cause for complaint, for there are few regions more richly endowed
with birds than the valley of the Hudson. As has been seen, it is the winter resort of not
a few, and is, moreover, a great highway of migration, for birds are ever prone to follow the
watercourses that run north and south. The region also affords so wide a choice of locality
and condition that the tastes of very many birds are suited. There are numerous gardens and
a profusion of fruit for those that are half domesticated; orchards abounding in old trees
with knotholes, admirably fitted for summer homes; elms on which to hang the graceful pensile
nests--"castles in air," as Burroughs calls them; meadows in which the lark, vesper sparrow,
and bobolink can disport; and forests stretching up into the mountains, wherein the shyest
birds can enjoy all the seclusion they desire, content to sing unheard, as the flowers around
them bloom unseen, except by those who love them well enough to seek them in their remotest haunts.

The week which preceded the May party was a memorable one to Amy, for during its sunny days
she saw an American spring in its perfection. Each morning brought rich surprises to her, Johnnie,
and Alf, and to Webb an increasing wonder that he had never before truly seen the world in
which he lived. The pent-up forces of Nature, long restrained, seemed finding new expression
every hour. Tulips opened their gaudy chalices to catch the morning dew. Massive spikes of
hyacinths distilled a rich perfume that was none too sweet in the open air. Whenever Amy stepped
from the door it seemed that some new flower had opened and some new development of greenery
and beauty had been revealed. But the crowning glory in the near landscape were the fruit trees.
The cherry boughs grew white every day, and were closely followed by the plum and pear and
the pink-hued peach blossoms. Even Squire Bartley's unattractive place was transformed for
a time into fairyland; but he, poor man, saw not the blossoms, and the birds and boys stole
his fruit. Amy wondered at the wealth of flowers that made many of the trees as white as they
had been on the snowiest day of winter, and Johnnie revelled in them, often climbing up into
some low-branched tree, that she might bury herself in their beauty, and inhale their fragrance
in long breaths of delight. The bees that filled the air about her with their busy hum never
molested her, believing, no doubt, that she had as good a right as themselves to enjoy the
sweets in her way. After all, it was Mrs. Clifford, perhaps, who obtained the profoundest enjoyment
from the season. Seated by her window or in a sunny corner of the piazza, she would watch the
unfolding buds as if she were listening to some sweet old story that had grown dearer with
every repetition. Indeed, this was true, for with the blossoms of every year were interwoven
the memories of a long life, and their associations had scarcely ever been more to her heart
than the new ones now forming. She often saw, with her children and grandchildren, the form
of a tall girl passing to and fro, and to her loving eyes Amy seemed to be the fairest and
sweetest flower of this gala period. She, and indeed they all, had observed Burt's strongly
manifested preference, but, with innate refinement and good sense, there had been a tacit agreement
to appear blind. The orphan girl should not be annoyed by even the most delicate raillery,
but the old lady and her husband could not but feel the deepest satisfaction that Bart was
making so wise a choice. They liked Amy all the better because she was so little disposed to
sentiment, and proved that she was not to be won easily.

But they all failed to understand her, and gave her credit for a maturity that she did not
possess. In her happy, healthful country life the girlish form that had seemed so fragile when
she first came to them was taking on the rounded lines of womanhood. Why should she not be
wooed like other girls at her age? Burt was further astray than any one else, and was even
inclined to complain mentally that her nature was cold and unresponsive. And yet her very reserve
and elusiveness increased his passion, which daily acquired a stronger mastery. Webb alone
half guessed the truth in regard to her. As time passed, and he saw the increasing evidences
of Burt's feeling, he was careful that his manner should be strictly fraternal toward Amy,
for his impetuous brother was not always disposed to be reasonable even in his normal condition,
and now he was afflicted with a malady that has often brought to shame the wisdom of the wisest.
The elder brother saw how easily Burt's jealousy could be aroused, and therefore denied himself
many an hour of the young girl's society, although it caused him a strange little heartache
to do so. But he was very observant, for Amy was becoming a deeply interesting study. He saw
and appreciated her delicate fence with Burt, in which tact, kindness, and a little girlish
brusqueness were almost equally blended. Was it the natural coyness of a high-spirited girl,
who could be won only by long and patient effort? or was it an instinctive self-defence from
a suit that she could not repulse decisively without giving pain to those she loved? Why was
she so averse? Their home-life, even at that busy season, gave him opportunities to see her
often, and glimmerings of the truth began to dawn upon him. He saw that she enjoyed the society
of Alf and Johnnie almost as much as that of the other members of the family, that her delight
at every new manifestation of spring was as unforced as that of the children, while at the
same time it was an intelligent and questioning interest. The beauty of the world without impressed
her deeply, as it did Johnnie, but to the latter it was a matter of course, while to Amy it
was becoming an inviting mystery. The little girl would bring some new flower from the woods
or garden, the first of the season, in contented triumph, but to Amy the flower had a stronger
interest. It represented something unknown, a phase of life which it was the impulse of her
developing mind to explore. Her botany was not altogether satisfactory, for analysis and classification
do not reveal to us a flower or plant any more than the mention of a name and family connection
makes known individual character. Her love for natural objects was too real to be satisfied
with a few scientific facts about them. If a plant, tree, or bird, interested her she would
look at it with a loving, lingering glance until she felt that she was learning to know it
somewhat as she would recognize a friend. The rapid changes which each day brought were like
new chapters in a story, or new verses in a poem. She watched with admiring wonder the transition
of buds into blossoms; and their changes of form and color. She shared in Alf's excitement
over the arrival of every new bird from the South, and, having a good ear for music, found
absorbing pleasure in learning and estimating the quality and characteristics of their various
songs. Their little oddities appealed to her sense of humor. A pair of cat-birds that had begun
their nest near the house received from her more ridicule than admiration. "They seem to be
regular society birds and gossips," she said, "and I can never step out-of-doors but I feel
that they are watching me, and trying to attract my attention. They have a pretty song, but
they seem to have learned it by heart, and as soon as they are through they make that horrid
noise, as if in their own natural tone they were saying something disagreeable about you."

But on the morning of Johnnie's coronation she was wakened by songs as entrancing as they were
unfamiliar. Running to the window, she saw darting through the trees birds of such a brilliant
flame color that they seemed direct from the tropics, and their notes were almost as varied
as their colors. She speedily ceased to heed them, however, for from the edge of the nearest
grove came a melody so ethereal and sustained that it thrilled her with the delight that one
experiences when some great singer lifts up her voice with a power and sweetness that we feel
to be divine. At the same moment she saw Alf running toward the house. Seeing her at the window,
he shouted, "Amy, the orioles and the wood-thrushes--the finest birds of the year--have come.
Hurry up and go with me to the grove yonder."

Soon after Webb, returning from a distant field to breakfast, met her near the grove. She was
almost as breathless and excited as the boy, and passed him with a bright hurried smile, while
she pressed on after her guide with noiseless steps lest the shy songster should be frightened.
He looked after her and listened, feeling that eye and ear could ask for no fuller enchantment.
At last she came back to him with the fresh loveliness of the morning in her face, and exclaimed,
"I have seen an ideal bird, and he wears his plumage like a quiet-toned elegant costume that
simply suggests a perfect form. He was superbly indifferent, and scarcely looked at us until
we came too near, and then, with a reserved dignity, flew away. He is the true poet of the
woods, and would sing just as sweetly if there was never a listener."

"I knew he would not disappoint you. Yes, he is a poet, and your true aristocrat, who commands
admiration without seeking it," Webb replied.

"I am sure he justifies all your praises, past and present. Oh, isn't the morning lovely--so
fresh, dewy, and fragrant? and the world looks so young and glad!"

"You also look young and glad this morning, Amy."

"How can one help it? This May beauty makes me feel as young as Alf," she replied, placing
her hand on the boy's shoulder.

Her face was flushed with exercise; her step buoyant; her eyes were roaming over the landscape
tinted with fruit blossoms and the expanding foliage. Webb saw in what deep accord her spirit
was with the season, and he thought, "She is young--in the very May of her life. She is scarcely
more ready for the words that Burt would speak than little Johnnie. I wish he would wait till
the girl becomes a woman;" and then for some reason he sighed deeply. Amy gave him an arch
look, and said:

"Then came from the depths, Webb. What secret sorrow can you have on a day like this?"

He laughed, but made no reply.

"Ah, listen!" she cried, "what bird is that? Oh, isn't it beautiful?-- almost equal to the
thrush's song. He seems to sing as if his notes were written for him in couplets." She spoke
at intervals, looking toward the grove they had just left, and when the bird paused Webb replied:

"That is the wood-thrush's own cousin, and a distinguished member of the thrush family, the
brown-thrasher. Well, Johnnie," he added, to the little girl who had come to meet them, "you
are honored to-day. Three of our most noted minstrels have arrived just in time to furnish
music for the May Queen."

But Johnnie was not surprised, only pleased, as Webb and others congratulated her. She would
be queen that day with scarcely more self-consciousness than one of the flowers that decked
her. It was the occasion, the carnival of spring, that occupied her thoughts, and, since the
fairest blossoms of the season were to be gathered, why should not the finest birds be present
also?

Feeling that he had lost an opportunity in the improvised festival of the maple-sugar grove,
Burt resolved to make the most of this occasion, and he had the wisdom to decide upon a course
that relieved Amy of not a little foreboding. He determined to show his devotion by thoughtful
considerateness, by making the day so charming and satisfactory as to prove that he could be
a companion after her own heart. And he succeeded fairly well for a time, only the girl's intuition
divined his motive and guessed his sentiments. She was ever in fear that his restraint would
give way. And yet she felt that she ought to reward him for what she mentally termed his "sensible
behavior" and indicate that such should be his course in the future. But this was a delicate
and difficult task. In spite of all the accumulated beauty of the season the day was less bright,
less full of the restful, happy abandon of the previous one in March, when Webb had been her
undemonstrative attendant. He, with Leonard, at that busy period found time to look in upon
the revellers in the woods but once. Mr. Clifford spent more time with them, but the old gentleman
was governed by his habit of promptness, and the time called for despatch.

For the children, however, it was a revel that left nothing to be desired. They had decided
that it should be a congress of flowers, from the earliest that had bloomed to those now opening
in the sunniest haunts. Alf, with one or two other adventurous boys, had climbed the northern
face of old Storm King, and brought away the last hepaticas, fragrant clusters of arbutus,
and dicentras, for "pattykers, arbuties, and Dutcher's breeches," as Ned called them, were
favorites that could not be spared. On a sunny slope dogwood, well advanced, was found. There
were banks white with the rue-anemone, and they were marked, that some of the little tuber-like
roots might be taken up in the fall for forcing in the house. Myriads of violets gave a purple
tinge to parts of a low meadow near, and chubby hands were stained with the last of the star-like
bloodroot blossoms, many of which dropped white petals on their way to Johnnie's throne. Some
brought handfuls of columbine from rocky nooks, and others the purple trillium, that is near
of kin to Burroughs's white "wake-robin." There were so many Jacks-in-the-pulpit that one might
fear a controversy, but the innumerable dandelions and dogtooth violets which carpeted the
ground around the throne diffused so mellow a light that all the blossoms felt that they looked
well and were amiable. But it would require pages even to mention all the flowers that were
brought from gardens, orchards, meadows, groves, and rugged mountain slopes. Each delegation
of blossoms and young tinted foliage was received by Amy, as mistress of ceremonies, and arranged
in harmonious positions; while Johnnie, quite forgetful of her royalty, was as ready to help
at anything as the humblest maid of honor. All the flowers were treated tenderly except the
poor purple violets, and these were slaughtered by hundreds, for the projecting spur under
the curved stem at the base of the flower enabled the boys to hook them together, and "fight
roosters," as they termed it. Now and then some tough-stemmed violet would "hook-off" a dozen
blue heads before losing its own, and it became the temporary hero. At last the little queen
asserted her power by saying, with a sudden flash in her dark blue eyes, that she "wouldn't
have any more fighting roosters. She didn't think it was nice."

By one o'clock the queen had been crowned, the lunch had met the capacity of even the boys,
and the children, circling round the throne, were singing: "Oats, peas, beans, and barley grows,"
and kindred rhymes, their voices rising and falling with the breeze, the birds warbling an
accompaniment. Webb and Leonard, at work in a field not far away, often paused to listen, the
former never failing to catch Amy's clear notes as she sat on a rock, the gentle power behind
the throne, that had maintained peace and good-will among all the little fractious subjects.

The day had grown almost sultry, and early in the afternoon there was a distant jar of thunder.
Burt, who from a bed of dry leaves had been watching Amy, started up and saw that there was
an ominous cloud in the west. She agreed with him that it would be prudent to return at once,
for she was growing weary and depressed. Burt, with all his effort to be quietly and unobtrusively
devoted, had never permitted her to become unconscious of his presence and feeling. Therefore
her experience had been a divided one. She could not abandon herself to her hearty sympathy
with the children and their pleasure, for he, by manner at least, ever insisted that she was
a young lady, and the object of thoughts all too warm. Her nature was so fine that it was wounded
and annoyed by an unwelcome admiration. She did not wish to think about it, but was not permitted
to forget it. She had been genial, merry, yet guarded toward him all day, and now had begun
to long for the rest and refuge of her own room. He felt that he had not made progress, and
was also depressed, and he showed this so plainly on their way home that she was still more
perplexed and troubled. "If he would only be sensible, and treat me as Webb does!" she exclaimed,
as she threw herself on the lounge in her room, exhausted rather than exhilarated by the experience
of the day.

CHAPTER XXIX NATURE'S WORKSHOP

During the hour she slept an ideal shower crossed the sky. In the lower strata of air there
was scarcely any wind, and the rain came down vertically, copiously, and without beating violence.
The sun-warmed earth took in every drop like a great sponge.

Beyond the first muttered warning to the little May party in the grove there was no thunder.
The patter of the rain was a gentle lullaby to Amy, and at last she was wakened by a ray of
sunlight playing upon her face, yet she still heard the soft fall of rain. With the elasticity
of youth, she sprang up, feeling that the other cloud that had shadowed her thoughts might
soon pass also. As she went singing down the stairway, Webb called from the front door: "Amy,
look here! I was hoping you would come. See that rainbow." The cloud still hung heavily over
the eastern mountains, while against it was a magnificent arch, and so distinctly defined that
its feet appeared to rest on the two banks of the river. They watched it in silence until it
faded away, and the whole scene, crowned with flowers and opening foliage tinted like blossoms
of varied hues, was gemmed with crystals by the now unclouded sun, for the soft rain had clung
to everything, from the loftiest tree-top to the tiniest spire of grass. Flame-like orioles
were flashing through the perfumed air. Robins, with their heads lifted heavenward, were singing
as rapturously as if they were saints rather than rollicking gormandizers. Every bird that
had a voice was lifting it up in thanksgiving, but clear, sweet, and distinct above them all
came the notes of the wood-thrush, with his Beethoven-like melody.

"Have you no words for a scene like this, Webb?" she asked, at last.

"It is beyond all words, Amy. It is one of nature's miracles. My wonder exceeds even my admiration,
for the greater part of this infinite variety of beauty is created out of so few materials
and by so simple yet mysterious a method that I can scarcely believe it, although I see it
and know it. Men have always agreed to worship the genius which could achieve the most with
the least. And yet the basis of nearly all we see is a microscopic cell endowed with essential
powers. That large apple-tree yonder, whose buds are becoming so pink, started from one of
these minute cells, and all the growth, beauty, and fruitfulness since attained were the result
of the power of this one cell to add to itself myriads of like cells, which form the whole
structure. It is cell adding cells that is transforming the world around us." He spoke earnestly,
and almost as if he were thinking aloud, and he looked like one in the presence of a mystery
that awed him. The hue of Amy's eyes deepened, and her face flushed in her quickened interest.
Her own mind had been turning to kindred thoughts and questionings. She had passed beyond the
period when a mind like hers could be satisfied with the mere surface of things, and Webb's
direct approach to the very foundation principles of what she saw sent a thrill through all
her nerves as an heroic deed would have done.

"Can you not show me one of those cells with your microscope?" she asked, eagerly.

 "Yes, easily, and some of its contents through the cell's transparent
walls, as, for instance, the minute grains of chlorophyll, that is, the
green of leaves. All the hues of foliage and flowers are caused by what
the cells contain, and these, to a certain extent, can be seen and
analyzed. But there is one thing within the cell which I cannot show you,
and which has never been seen, and yet it accounts for everything, and is
the architect of all--life. When we reach the cell we are at the
threshold of this mysterious presence. We know that it is within. We can
see its work, for its workshop is under our eye, and in this minute shop
it is building all the vegetation of the world, but the artisan itself
ever remains invisible."

"Ah, Webb, do not say artisan, but rather artist. Does not the beauty all around us prove it?
Surely there is but one explanation, the one papa taught me: it is the power of God. He is
in the little as well as in the great. Do you not believe so, Webb?"

"Well, Amy," he replied, smilingly, "the faith taught you by your father is, to my mind, more
rational than any of the explanations that I have read, and I have studied several. But then
I know little, indeed, compared with multitudes of others. I am sure, however, that the life
of God is in some way the source of all the life we see. But perplexing questions arise on
every side. Much of life is so repulsive and noxious-- But there! what a fog-bank I am leading
you into this crystal May evening! Most young girls would vote me an insufferable bore should
I talk to them in this style."

"So much the worse for the young girls then. I should think they would feel that no compliment
could exceed that of being talked to as if they had brains. But I do not wish to put on learned
airs. You know how ignorant I am of even the beginnings of this knowledge. All that I can say
is that I am not content to be ignorant. The curiosity of Mother Eve is growing stronger every
day; and is it strange that it should turn toward the objects, so beautiful and yet so mysterious,
that meet my eyes on every side?"

"No," said he, musingly, "the strange thing is that people have so little curiosity in regard
to their surroundings. Why, multitudes of intelligent persons are almost as indifferent as
the cattle that browse around among the trees and flowers. But I am a sorry one to preach.
I once used to investigate things, but did not see them. I have thought about it very much
this spring. It is said that great painters and sculptors study anatomy as well as outward
form. Perhaps here is a good hint for those who are trying to appreciate nature. I am not so
shallow as to imagine that I can ever understand nature any more than I can you with your direct,
honest gaze. So to the thoughtful mystery is ever close at hand, but it seems no little thing
to trace back what one sees as far as one can, and you have made me feel that it is a great
thing to see the Divine Artist's finished work."

They were now joined by others, and the perfect beauty of the evening as it slowly faded into
night attracted much attention from all the family. The new moon hung in the afterglow of the
western sky, and as the dusk deepened the weird notes of the whip-poor-will were heard for
the first time from the mountain-sides.

At the supper-table Leonard beamed on every one. "A rain like this, after a week of sunshine
has warmed the earth" he exclaimed, "is worth millions to the country. We can plant our corn
next week."

"Yes," added his father, "the old Indian sign, the unfolding of the oak leaves, indicates that
it is now safe to plant. Next week will be a busy one. After long years of observation I am
satisfied that the true secret of success in farming is the doing of everything at just the
right time. Crops put in too early or too late often partially fail; but if the right conditions
are complied with from the beginning, they start with a vigor which is not lost until maturity."

Burt indulged in a gayety that was phenomenal even for him, but after supper he disappeared.
Amy retired to her room early, but she sat a long time at her window and looked out into the
warm, fragrant night. She had forgotten poor Burt, who was thinking of her, as in his unrest
he rode mile after mile, holding his spirited horse down to a walk. She had almost forgotten
Webb, but she thought deeply of his words, of the life that was working all around her so silently
and yet so powerfully. Unseen it had created the beauty she had enjoyed that day. From the
very contrast of ideas it made her think of death, of her father, who once had been so strong
and full of life. The mystery of one seemed as great as that of the other, and a loneliness
such as she had not felt before for months depressed her.

"I wish I could talk to Webb again," she thought. "He says he does not understand me. Little
wonder; I do not understand myself. It would seem that when one began to think nothing that
appeared simple before is understood; but his words are strong and assured. He leads one to
the boundaries of the known, and then says, quietly, we can go no further; but he makes you
feel that what is beyond is all right. Oh, I wish Burt was like him!"

CHAPTER XXX

SPRING-TIME PASSION

But little chance had Amy to talk with Webb for the next few days. He had seen the cloud on
Burt's brow, and had observed that he was suspicious, unhappy, and irritable; that reason and
good sense were not in the ascendant; and he understood his brother sufficiently well to believe
that his attack must run its natural course, as like fevers had done before. From what he had
seen he also thought that Amy could deal with Burt better than any one else, for although high-strung,
he was also manly and generous when once he got his bearings. In his present mood he would
bitterly resent interference from any one, but would be bound to obey Amy and to respect her
wishes. Therefore he took especial pains to be most kindly, but also to appear busy and pre-occupied.

It must not be thought that Burt was offensive or even openly obtrusive in his attentions.
He was far too well-bred for that. There was nothing for which even his mother could reprove
him, or of which Amy herself could complain. It was the suit itself from which she shrank,
or rather which she would put off indefinitely. But Burt was not disposed to put anything that
he craved into the distance. Spring-tide impulses were in his veins, and his heart was so overcharged
that it must find expression. His opportunity came unexpectedly. A long, exquisite day had
merged into a moonlight evening. The apple-blossoms were in all their white-and-pink glory,
and filled the summer-like air with a fragrance as delicate as that of the arbutus. The petals
of the cherry were floating down like snow in every passing breeze, glimmering momentarily
in the pale radiance. The night was growing so beautiful that Amy was tempted to stroll out
in the grounds, and soon she yielded to a fancy to see the effect of moonlight through an apple-tree
that towered like a mound of snow at some little distance from the house. She would not have
been human had the witchery of the May evening been without its influence. If Burt could have
understood her, this was his opportunity. If he had come with step and tone that accorded with
the quiet evening, and simply said, "Amy, you know--you have seen that I love you; what hope
can you give me?" she in her present mood would have answered him as gently and frankly as
a child. She might have laughingly pointed him to the tree, and said: "See, it is in blossom
now. It will be a long time before you pick the apples. You must wait. If you will be sensible,
and treat me as you would Johnnie, were she older, I will ride and walk with you, and be as
nice to you as I can."

But this Burt could not do and still remain Burt. He was like an overcharged cloud, and when
he spoke at last his words seemed to the sensitive girl to have the vividness and abruptness
of the lightning. It was her custom to make a special toilet for the evening, and when she
had come down to supper with a rose in her hair, and dressed in some light clinging fabric,
she had proved so attractive to the young fellow that he felt that the limit of his restraint
was reached. He would appeal to her so earnestly, so passionately, as to kindle her cold nature.
In his lack of appreciation of Amy he had come to deem this his true course, and she unconsciously
enabled him to carry out the rash plan. He had seen her stroll away, and had followed her until
she should be so far from the house that she must listen. As she emerged from under the apple-tree,
through which as a white cloud she had been looking at the moon, he appeared so suddenly as
to startle her, and without any gentle reassurance he seized her hand, and poured out his feelings
in a way that at first wounded and frightened her.

"Burt," she cried, "why do you speak to me so? Can't you see that I do not feel as you do?
I've given you no reason to say such words to me."

"Have you no heart, Amy? Are you as cold and elusive as this moonlight? I have waited patiently,
and now I must and will speak. Every man has a right to speak and a right to an answer."

"Well then," she replied, her spirit rising; "if you will insist on my being a woman instead
of a young girl just coming from the shadow of a great sorrow, I also have my rights. I've
tried to show you gently and with all the tact I possessed that I did not want to think about
such things. I'm just at the beginning of my girlhood and I want to be a young girl as long
as I can and not an engaged young woman. No matter who spoke the words you have said, they
would pain me. Why couldn't you see this from my manner and save both yourself and me from
this scene? I'll gladly be your loving sister, but you must not speak to me in this way again."

"You refuse me then," he said, throwing back his head haughtily.

"Refuse you? No. I simply tell you that I won't listen to such words from any one. Why can't
you be sensible and understand me? I no more wish to talk about such things than do Alf and
Johnnie."

"I do understand you," he exclaimed, passionately, "and better perhaps than you understand
yourself. You are not a child. You are a woman, but you seem to lack a woman's heart, as far
as I am concerned;" and with a gesture that was very tragic and despairing he strode away.

She was deeply troubled and incensed also, and she returned to the house with drooping head
and fast-falling tears.

"Why, Amy, what is the matter?" Looking up, she saw Webb coming down the piazza steps. Yielding
to her impulse, she sprang forward and took his arm, as she said:

"Webb, you have always acted toward me like a brother. Tell me true: am I cold? am I heartless?
is it unnatural in me that I do not wish to hear such words as Burt would speak to-night? All
I ask is that he will let me stay a happy young girl till I am ready for something else. This
is no way for a flower to bloom"--she snatched the rose from her hair, and pushed open the
red petals--"and yet Burt expects me to respond at once to feelings that I do not even understand.
If it's best in the future--but surely I've a right to my freedom for a long time yet. Tell
me, do you think I'm unnatural?"

"No, Amy," he answered, gently. "It is because you are so perfectly natural, so true to your
girlhood, that you feel as you do. In that little parable of the rose you explain yourself
fully. You have no cause for self-reproach, nor has Burt for complaint. Will you do what I ask?"

"Yes, Webb. You say you do not understand me, and yet always prove that you do. If Burt would
only treat me as you do, I should be perfectly happy."

"Well, Burt's good-hearted, but sometimes he mislays his judgment," said Webb, laughing. "Come,
cheer up. There is no occasion for any high tragedy on his part or for grieving on yours. You
go and tell mother all about it, and just how you feel. She is the right one to manage this
affair, and her influence over Burt is almost unbounded. Do this, and, take my word for it,
all will soon be serene."

And so it proved. Amy felt that night what it is to have a mother's boundless love and sympathy,
and she went to her rest comforted, soothed, and more assured as to the future than she had
been for a long time. "How quiet and sensible Webb was about it all!" was her last smiling
thought before she slept. His thought as he strolled away in the moonlight after she left him
was, "It is just as if I half believed. She has the mind of a woman, but the heart of a child.
How apt was her use of that rose! It told all."

Burt did not stroll; he strode mile after mile, and the uncomfortable feeling that he had been
very unwise, to say the least, and perhaps very unjust, was growing upon him. When at last
he returned, his mother called to him through the open door. Sooner or later, Mrs. Clifford
always obtained the confidence of her children, and they ever found that it was sacred. All
that can be said, therefore, was, that he came from her presence penitent, ashamed, and hopeful.
His mood may best be explained, perhaps, by a note written before he retired. "My dear sister
Amy," it ran, "I wish to ask your pardon. I have been unjust and ungenerous. I was so blinded
and engrossed by my own feelings that I did not understand you. I have proved myself unworthy
of even a sister's love; but I will try to make amends. Do not judge me harshly because I was
so headlong. There is no use in trying to disguise the truth. What I have said so unwisely
and prematurely I cannot unsay, and I shall always be true to my words. But I will wait patiently
as long as you please; and if you find, in future years, that you cannot feel as I do, I will
not complain or blame you, however sad the truth may be to me. In the meantime, let there be
no constraint between us. Let me become once more your trusted brother Burt." This note he
pushed under her door, and then slept too soundly for the blighted youth he had a few hours
before deemed himself.

He felt a little embarrassed at the prospect of meeting her the next morning, but she broke
the ice at once by coming to him on the piazza and extending her hand in smiling frankness
as she said: "You are neither unjust nor ungenerous, Burt, or you would not have written me
such a note. I take you at your word. As you said the first evening I came, we shall have jolly
times together."

The young fellow was immensely relieved and grateful, and he showed it. Soon afterward he went
about the affairs of the day happier than he had been for a long time. Indeed, it soon became
evident that his explosion on the previous evening had cleared the air generally. Amy felt
that the one threatening cloud had sunk below the horizon. As the days passed, and Burt proved
that he could keep his promise, her thoughts grew as serene as those of Johnnie. Her household
duties were not very many, and yet she did certain things regularly. The old people found that
she rarely forgot them, and she had the grace to see when she could help and cheer. Attentions
that must be constantly asked for have little charm. A day rarely passed that did she not give
one or more of its best hours to her music and drawing; for, while she never expected to excel
in these arts, she had already learned that they would enable her to give much pleasure to
others. Her pencil, also, was of great assistance in her study of out-door life, for the fixed
attention which it required to draw a plant, tree, or bit of scenery revealed its characteristics.
She had been even more interested in the unfolding of the leaf-buds than in the flowering of
the trees, and the gradual advance of the foliage, like a tinted cloud, up the mountain-slopes,
was something she never tired of watching. When she spoke of this one day to Webb, he replied:

"I have often wondered that more is not said and written about our spring foliage, before it
passes into its general hue of green. To me it has a more delicate beauty and charm than anything
seen in October. Different trees have their distinct coloring now as then, but it is evanescent,
and the shades usually are less clearly marked. This very fact, however, teaches the eye to
have a nicety of distinction that is pleasing."

The busy days passed quickly on. The blossoms faded from the trees, and the miniature fruit
was soon apparent. The strawberry rows, that had been like lines of snow, were now full of
little promising cones. The grass grew so lusty and strong that the dandelions were hidden
except as the breeze caught up the winged seeds that the tuneful yellow-birds often seized
in the air. The rye had almost reached its height, and Johnnie said it was "as good as going
to the ocean to see it wave." At last the swelling buds on the rose-bushes proclaimed the advent
of June.

CHAPTER XXXI

JUNE AND HONEY-BEES

It is said that there is no heaven anywhere for those incapable of recognizing and enjoying
it. Be this as it may, the month of June is a segment of heaven annually bestowed on those
whose eyes and ears have been opened to beauty in sight and sound. Indeed, what sense in man
is not gratified to the point of imaginary perfection during this early fruition of the varied
promise of spring? Even to the sense of touch, how exquisite is the "feel" of the fragrant
rose-petals, the soft young foliage that has transformed the world, and the queer downy fledglings
in innumerable nests! To the eye informed by a heart in love with nature the longest days of
the year are all too short to note half that exists and takes place. Who sees and distinguishes
the varied blossoming of the many kinds of grain and grasses that are waving in every field?
And yet here is a beauty as distinct and delicate as can be found in some of Mendelssohn's
"Songs without Words"--blossomings so odd, delicate, and evanescent as to suggest a child's
dream of a flower. Place them under a strong glass, and who can fail to wonder at the miracles
of form and color that are revealed? From these tiny flowerets the scale runs upward until
it touches the hybrid rose. During this period, also, many of the forest trees emulate the
wild flowers at their feet until their inflorescence culminates in the white cord-like fringe
that foretells the spiny chestnut burrs.

So much has been written comparing this exquisite season when spring passes insensibly into
summer with the fulfilled prophecy of girlhood, that no attempt shall be made to repeat the
simile. Amy's birthday should have been in May, but it came early in June. May was still in
her heart, and might linger there indefinitely; but her mind, her thoughts, kept pace with
nature as unconsciously as the flowers that bloomed in their season. There were little remembrances
from all the family, but Webb's gift promised the most pleasure. It was a powerful opera-glass;
and as he handed it to her on the piazza in the early morning he said:

"Our troupe are all here now, Amy, and I thought that you would like to see the singers, and
observe their costumes and expressions. Some birds have a good deal of expression and a very
charming manner while singing--a manner much more to my taste than that of many a prima donna
whom I have heard, although my taste may be uncultivated. Focus your glass on that indigo-bird
in yonder tree-top. Don't you see him?--the one that is favoring us with such a lively strain,
beginning with a repetition of short, sprightly notes. The glass may enable you to see his
markings accurately."

"Oh, what an exquisite glossy blue! and it grows so deep and rich about the head, throat, and
breast! How plain I can see him, even to the black velvet under his eyes! There is brown on
his wings, too. Why, I can look right into his little throat, and almost imagine I see the
notes he is flinging abroad so vivaciously. I can even make out his claws closed on a twig,
and the dew on the leaves around him is like gems. Truly, Webb, you were inspired when you
thought of this gift."

"Yes," he replied, quietly, looking much pleased, however, "with a very honest wish to add
to your enjoyment of the summer. I must confess, too, that I had one thought at least for myself.
You have described the indigo-bird far more accurately than I could have done, although I have
seen it every summer as long as I can remember. You have taught me to see; why should I not
help you to see more when I can do it so easily? My thought was that you would lend me the
glass occasionally, so that I might try to keep pace with you. I've been using the microscope
too much--prying into nature, as Burt would say, with the spirit of an anatomist."

"I shall value the glass a great deal more if you share it with me," she said, simply, with
a sincere, direct gaze into his eyes; "and be assured, Webb," she added, earnestly, "you are
helping me more than I can help you. I'm not an artist, and never can be, but if I were I should
want something more than mere surface, however beautiful it might be. Think of it, Webb, I'm
eighteen to-day, and I know so little! You always make me feel that there is so much to learn,
and, what is more, that it is worth knowing. You should have been a teacher, for you would
make the children feel, when learning their lessons, as Alf does when after game. How well
nature bears close scrutiny!" she added, sweeping the scene with her glass. "I can go every
day now on an exploring expedition. But there is the breakfast-bell."

Mr. Clifford came in a little late, rubbing his hands felicitously, as he said:

"I have just come from the apiary, and think we shall have another swarm to-day. Did you ever
hear the old saying, Amy,

  'A swarm of bees in June
   Is worth a silver spoon'?

If one comes out to-day, and we hive it safely, we shall call it yours, and you shall have
the honey."

"How much you are all doing to sweeten my life!" she said, laughing; "but I never expected
the present of a swarm of bees. I assure you it is a gift that you will have to keep for me,
and yet I should like to see how the bees swarm, and how you hive them. Would it be safe? I've
heard that bees are so wise, and know when people are afraid of them."

"You can fix yourself up with a thick veil and a pair of gloves so that there will be no danger,
and your swarm of bees, when once in hive, will take care of themselves, and help take care
of you. That's the beauty of bee-culture."

"Our bees are literally in clover this year," Leonard remarked. "That heavy coating of wood-ashes
that I gave to a half-acre near the apiary proved most effective, and the plot now looks as
if a flurry of snow had passed over it, the white clover blossoms are so thick. That is something
I could never understand, Webb. Wood-ashes will always bring white clover. It's hard to believe
that it all comes from seed dormant in the ground."

"Well, it does," was the reply.

"A great many think that the ashes simply produce conditions in the soil which generate the
clover."

"Out of nothing? That would not be simple at all, and if any one could prove it he would make
a sensation in the scientific world."

"Now, Len, here's your chance," laughed Burt. "Just imagine what a halo of glory you would
get by setting the scientific world agape with wonder!"

"I could make the scientific world gape in a much easier way," Leonard replied, dryly. "Well,
Amy, if you are as fond of honey as I am, you will think a swarm of bees a very nice present.
Fancy buckwheat cakes eaten with honey made from buckwheat blossoms! There's a conjunction
that gives to winter an unflagging charm. If the old Hebrews felt as I do, a land flowing with
milk and honey must have been very alluring. Such a land the valley of the Hudson certainly
is. It's one of the finest grass regions of the world, and grass means milk; and the extensive
raspberry fields along its banks mean honey. White clover is all very well, but I've noticed
that when the raspberry-bushes are in bloom they are alive with bees. I believe even the locust-trees
would be deserted for these insignificant little blossoms that, like many plain people, are
well worth close acquaintance."

"The linden-tree, which also blooms this month," added Webb, "furnishes the richest harvest
for the honeybees, and I don't believe they would leave its blossoms for any others. I wish
there were more lindens in this region, for they are as ornamental as they are useful. I've
read that they are largely cultivated in Russia for the sake of the bees. The honey made from
the linden or bass-wood blossoms is said to be crystal in its transparency, and unsurpassed
in delicacy of flavor."

"Well," said Mr. Clifford, "I shall look after the apiary to-day. That's good lazy work for
an old man. You can help me watch at a safe distance, Amy, and protected, as I said, if they
swarm. It wouldn't be well for you to go too near the hives at first, you know," he added,
in laughing gallantry, "for they might mistake you for a flower. They are so well acquainted
with me that I raise neither expectations nor fears. You needn't come out before ten o'clock,
for they don't swarm until toward midday."

With shy steps, and well protected, Amy approached the apiary, near which the old gentleman
was sitting in placid fearlessness under the shade of a maple, the honey of whose spring blossoms
was already in the hive. For a time she kept at a most respectful distance, but, as the bees
did not notice her, she at last drew nearer, and removed her veil, and with the aid of her
glass saw the indefatigable workers coming in and going out with such celerity that they seemed
to be assuring each other that there were tons of honey now to be had for the gathering. The
bees grew into large insects under her powerful lenses, and their forms and movements were
very distinct. Suddenly from the entrance of one hive near Mr. Clifford, which she happened
to be covering with her glass, she saw pouring out a perfect torrent of bees. She started back
in affright, but Mr. Clifford told her to stand still, and she noted that he quietly kept his
seat, while following through his gold-rimmed spectacles the swirling, swaying stream that
rushed into the upper air. The combined hum smote the ear with its intensity. Each bee was
describing circles with almost the swiftness of light, and there were such numbers that they
formed a nebulous living mass. Involuntarily she crouched down in the grass. In a few moments,
however, she saw the swarm draw together and cluster like a great black ball on a bough of
a small pear-tree. The queen had alighted, and all her subjects gathered around her.

"Ah," chuckled the old gentleman, rising quietly, "they couldn't have been more sensible if
they had been human--not half so sensible in that case, perhaps. I think you will have your
swarm now without doubt. That's the beauty of these Italian bees when they are kept pure: they
are so quiet and sensible. Come away now, until I return prepared to hive them."

The young girl obeyed with alacrity, and was almost trembling with excitement, to which fear
as well as the novelty of the scene contributed not a little. Mr. Clifford soon returned, well
protected and prepared for his work. Taking an empty hive, he placed it on the ground in a
secluded spot, and laid before its entrances a broad, smooth board. Then he mounted a step-ladder,
holding in his left hand a large tin pan, and gently brushed the bees into it as if they had
been inanimate things. A sheet had first been spread beneath the pear-tree to catch those that
did not fall into the pan. Touched thus gently and carefully, the immense vitality of the swarm
remained dormant; but a rough, sudden movement would have transformed it instantly into a vengeful
cloud of insects, each animated by the one impulse to use its stiletto. Corning down from the
ladder he turned the pan toward Amy, and with her glass she saw that it was nearly half full
of a crawling, seething mass that fairly made her shudder. But much experience rendered the
old gentleman confident, and he only smiled as he carried the pan of bees to the empty hive,
and poured them out on the board before it. The sheet was next gathered up and placed near
the hive also, and then the old gentleman backed slowly and quietly away until he had joined
Amy, to whom he said, "My part of the work is now done, and I think we shall soon see them
enter the hive." He was right, for within twenty minutes every bee had disappeared within the
new domicile. "To-night I will place the hive on the platform with the others, and to-morrow
your bees will be at work for you, Amy. I don't wonder you are so interested, for of all insects
I think bees take the palm. It is possible that the swarm will not fancy their new quarters,
and will come out again, but it is not probable. Screened by this bush, you can watch in perfect
safety;" and he left her well content, with her glass fixed on the apiary.

Having satisfied herself for the time with observing the workers coming and going, she went
around to the white clover-field to see the process of gathering the honey. She had long since
learned that bees while at work are harmless, unless so cornered that they sting in self-defence.
Sitting on a rock at the edge of the clover-field, she listened to the drowsy monotone of innumerable
wings. Then she bent her glass on a clover head, and it grew at once into a collection of little
white tubes or jars in which from earth, air, and dew nature distilled the nectar that the
bees were gathering. The intent workers stood on their heads and emptied these fragrant honey-jars
with marvellous quickness. They knew when they were loaded, and in straight lines as geometrically
true as the hexagon cells in which the honey would be stored they darted to their hives. When
the day grew warm she returned to the house and read, with a wonder and delight which no fairy
tale had ever produced, John Burroughs's paper, "The Pastoral Bees," which Webb had found for
her before going to his work. To her childish credulity fairy lore had been more interesting
than wonderful, but the instincts and habits of these children of nature touched on mysteries
that can never be solved.

At dinner the experiences of the apiary were discussed, and Leonard asked, "Do you think the
old-fashioned custom of beating tin pans and blowing horns influences a swarm to alight? The
custom is still maintained by some people in the vicinity."

"I doubt it," said Webb. "It is no longer practiced by scientific bee-keepers, and yet it is
founded on the principle that anything which disconcerts the bees may change their plans. It
is said that water or dry earth thrown into a whirling swarm will sometimes cause it to alight
or return to the hive."

"Your speaking of blowing horns," said Mr. Clifford, laughing, "recalls a hiving experience
that occurred seventy years ago. I was a boy then, but was so punctured with stings on a June
day like this that a vivid impression was made on my memory. We were expecting swarms every
day. A neighbor, a quaint old man who lived very near, had gained the reputation of an expert
at this business. I can see him now, with his high stove-pipe hat, and his gnarled, wrinkled
visage, which he shrouded in a green veil when hiving a swarm. He was a good-hearted old fellow,
but very rough in his talk. He had been to sea in early life, and profanity had become the
characteristic of his vernacular. Well, word came one morning that the bees were swarming,
and a minute later I aroused the old man, who was smoking and dozing on his porch. I don't
believe you ever ran faster, Alf, than I did then. Hiving bees was the old fellow's hobby and
pride, and he dived into his cottage, smashing his clay pipe on the way, with the haste of
an attacked soldier seizing his weapons. In a moment he was out with all his paraphernalia.
To me was given a fish-horn of portentous size and sound. The 'skips,' which were the old fashioned
straw hives that the bears so often emptied for our forefathers, stood in a large door-yard,
over which the swarm was circling. As we arrived on the scene the women were coming from the
house with tin pans, and nearly all the family were out-of-doors. It so happened that an old
white horse was grazing in the yard, and at this critical moment was near the end of the bench
on which stood the hives. Coming up behind him, I thoughtlessly let off a terrific blast from
my horn, at which he, terrified, kicked viciously. Over went a straw skip, and in a moment
we had another swarm of bees on hand that we had not bargained for. Dropping my horn, I covered
my face with my arm, and ran for life to the house, but I must have been stung twenty times
before I escaped. The bees seemed everywhere, and as mad as hornets. Although half wild with
pain, I had to laugh as I saw the old man frantically trying to adjust his veil, meanwhile
almost dancing in his anguish. In half a minute he succumbed, and tore into a wood-shed. Everybody
went to cover instantly except the white horse, and he had nowhere to go, but galloped around
the yard as if possessed. This only made matters worse, for innocent as he was, the bees justly
regarded him as the cause of all the trouble. At last, in his uncontrollable agony, he floundered
over a stone wall, and disappeared. For an hour or two it was almost as much as one's life
was worth to venture out. The old man, shrouded and mittened, at last crept off homeward to
nurse his wounds and his wrath, and he made the air fairly sulphurous around him with his oaths.
But that kind of sulphuric treatment did not affect the bees, for I observed from a window
that at one point nearest the skips he began to run, and he kept up a lively pace until within
his door. What became of the swarm we expected to hive I do not know. Probably it went to the
woods. That night we destroyed the irate swarm whose skip had been kicked over, and peace was
restored."

"If you had told that story at the breakfast-table," said Amy, as soon as the laugh caused
by the old gentleman's account had subsided, "you could never have induced me to be present
this morning, even at such a respectful distance."

"An old man who lives not far from us has wonderful success with bees," Leonard remarked. "He
has over fifty hives in a space not more than twenty feet square, and I do not think there
is a tenth of an acre in his whole lot, which is in the centre of a village. To this bare little
plot his bees bring honey from every side, so that for his purpose he practically owns this
entire region. He potters around them so much that, as far as he is concerned, they are as
docile as barn-door fowls, and he says he minds a sting no more than a mosquito bite. There
are half a dozen small trees and bushes in his little yard, and his bees are so accommodating
that they rarely swarm elsewhere than on these low trees within a lew feet of the skips. He
also places mullein stalks on a pole, and the swarms often cluster on them. He told me that
on one day last summer he had ten swarms to look after, and that he hived them all; and he
says that his wife is as good at the work as he is. On a pole which forms the corner of a little
poultry-coop he keeps the record of the swarms of each season, and for last summer there are
sixty-one notches. A year ago this month four swarms went into a barrel that stood in a corner
of his yard, and he left them there. By fall they had filled the barrel with honey, and then,
in his vernacular, he 'tuck it up'; that is, he killed the bees, and removed all the honey."

"That is the regular bee-phrase in this region. If a hive is to be emptied and the bees destroyed,
or a bee tree to be cut down, the act is described as 'taking up' the hive or tree," Burt explained.
"By the way, Amy," he added, "we must give you a little bee-hunting experience in the mountains
next October. It would make a jolly excursion. We can leave you with a guard at some high point,
when we strike a bee-line, and we might not be long in finding the tree."

"We'll put the expedition right down on the fall programme," she said, smilingly. Then turning
to Mr. Clifford, she continued: "You spoke in praise of Italian bees. What kind are they? and
how many kinds are there?"

"Really only two distinct kinds--our native brownish-black bees, and the Italians imported
by Mr. S. B. Parsons and others about fifteen years ago. There is a cross or hybrid between
these two kinds that are said to be so ill-natured that it is unsafe to go anywhere near their
hives."

"Burt," said Webb, "you must remember reading in Virgil of the 'golden bees.'"

"Yes, indistinctly; but none of them ever got in my bonnet or made much impression. I don't
like bees, nor do they like me. They respect only the deliberation of profound gravity and
wisdom. Father has these qualities by the right of years, and Webb by nature, and their very
presence soothes the irascible insects; but when I go among them they fairly bristle with stings.
Give me a horse, and the more spirited the better."

"Oh, no, Burt; can't give you any," said Leonard, with his humorous twinkle. "I'll sell you
one, though, cheap."

"Yes, that vicious, uncouth brute that you bought because so cheap. I told you that you were
'sold' at the same time with the horse."

"I admit it," was the rueful reply. "If he ever balks again as he did to-day, I shall be tempted
to shoot him."

"Oh, dear!" said Amy, a little petulantly, "I'd rather hear about Italian bees than balky horses.
Has my swarm of bees any connection with those that Virgil wrote about, Webb?"

"They may be direct descendants," he replied.

"Then call them May-bees," laughed Burt.

"The kind of bees that Virgil wrote about were undoubtedly their ancestors," resumed Webb,
smiling at Burt's sally, "for bees seem to change but little, if any, in their traits and habits.
Centuries of domestication do not make them domestic, and your swarm, if not hived, would have
gone to the mountains and lived in a hollow tree. I have a book that will give you the history
and characteristics of the Italians, if you would like to read about them."

"I certainly should. My mind is on bees now, and I intend to follow them up until I get stung
probably. Well, I've enjoyed more honey this morning, although I've not tasted any, than in
all my life. You see how useful I make the opera-glass, Webb. With it I can even gather honey
that does not cloy."

CHAPTER XXXII

BURT BECOMES RATIONAL

Burt had expended more on his present for Amy than had any of the family, and, while it had
been acknowledged most cordially, he was a little disappointed that his choice had not been
so happy as Webb's. Therefore after dinner he said: "I feel almost envious. I wish I could
give you a great deal of pleasure also to-day. How would you like to go in a row-boat to Constitution
Island, and make that visit to Miss Warner of which we spoke last winter? It's warm, but not
sultry, and we would keep in the shadow of the mountains most of the way down."

She hesitated a moment.

"Don't be afraid, Amy," he said, in a low tone.

"I'll go with you," she assented, cordially, "and I cannot think of anything that would make
my birthday more complete."

"I'll be ready in an hour," he said, flushing with pleasure, and he went up to his room two
steps at a time.

Burt's mental processes during the past few weeks had been characteristic, and would have amused
Amy had she been fully aware of them. As Webb surmised, his fever had to run its course, but
after its crisis had passed he rapidly grew rational. Moreover, in his mother, and indeed in
Amy herself, he had the best of physicians. At first he was very penitent, and not a little
chagrined at his course. As days went by, however, and it was not referred to by word or sign
on the part of the family, his nervous apprehension passed away. He thought he detected a peculiar
twinkle in Leonard's eyes occasionally, but it might have resulted from other causes. Still
Amy did the most to reassure him both consciously and unconsciously. As she said, she took
him at his word, and being unembarrassed by any feeling of her own, found it easy to act like
a sister toward him. This naturally put him at his ease. In her floral expeditions with Johnnie,
however, and her bird-nestings with Alf, wherein no birds were robbed, she unconsciously did
more to reconcile him to the necessity of waiting than could hours of argument from even his
mother. She thus proved to him that he had spoken much too soon--that she was not ready for
his ill-chosen, passionate words, which had wounded instead of firing her heart as he intended
they should. He now berated his stupidity, but consoled himself with the thought that love
is always a little blind. He saw that she liked Webb exceedingly, and enjoyed talking with
him, but he now was no longer disposed to be jealous. She ever seemed to be asking questions
like an intelligent child. "Why shouldn't she like Webb?" he thought. "He is one of the best
fellows in the world, and she has found out that he's a walking encyclopedia of out-door lore."

Burt was not one to be depressed or to remain in the valley of humiliation very long. After
a week or two a slight feeling of superiority began to assert itself. Amy was not only too
young to understand him, but also, perhaps, to appreciate him. He believed that he knew more
than one pretty girl to whom he would not have spoken in vain. Some day the scales would fall
from Amy's eyes. He could well afford to wait until they did, and he threw back his handsome
head at the thought, and an exultant flash came into his blue eyes. Oh, he would be faithful,
he would be magnanimous, and he also admitted to himself that he would be very glad and grateful;
but he would be very patient, perhaps a little too much so to suit her. Since he had been told
to "wait," he would wait until her awakening heart constrained her to give unequivocal signs
of readiness to surrender.

Thus his thoughts ran on while he was busy about the farm, or galloping over the country on
business or pleasure. After the corn-planting and the rush of work in May was over, he had
given himself a week's outing among the trout streams of Ulster County, and had returned with
his equanimity quite restored. To assure Amy of this, and that she had nothing more to fear,
but everything to gain, was one of his motives in asking her to take the long sail that afternoon.
He succeeded so well that a smile of very genuine satisfaction hovered about her lips more
than once. She enjoyed the expedition exceedingly. She was grateful for the kind reception
given her by the authors who had done much to sweeten and purify the world's thought. She was
charmed with the superb scenery as on their return they glided along in the shadows of Cro'
Nest, whose sides seemed lined with a choir of wood and veery thrushes and other wild songsters.
At last they evoked the spirit of music in her. She took an oar with Burt, and they pulled,
sang, and laughed together like careless, happy children. Yet more than once she shyly glanced
at him, and queried, Could his flushed and mirthful face be that of the passionate lover and
blighted youth of scarce a month since? Burt said something droll, and her laugh raised a musical
echo against the steep rocks near. His wit was not its cause, but her own thought: "My plea
was that I was too young; he's very young, too."

As they neared the point of Storm King the evening boat, the "Mary Powell," swept toward them
with scarcely more apparent effort than that of a swan. A few moments later their skiff was
dancing over the swells, Amy waving her handkerchief, and the good-natured pilot awakening
a hundred echoes by his steam-whistle of responsive courtesy.

They were at home in time for supper, and here another delicious surprise awaited Amy. Johnnie
and Alf felt that they should do something in honor of the day. From a sunny hillside they
had gleaned a gill of wild strawberries, and Webb had found that the heat of the day had so
far developed half a dozen Jacqueminot rosebuds that they were ready for gathering. These with
their fragrance and beauty were beside her plate in dainty arrangement. They seemed to give
the complete and final touch to the day already replete with joy and kindness, and happy, grateful
tears rushed into the young girl's eyes. Dashing them brusquely away, she said: "I can't tell
you all what I feel, and I won't try. I want you to know, however," she added, smilingly, while
her lips quivered, "that I am very much at home."

Burt was in exuberant spirits, for Amy had told him that she had enjoyed every moment of the
afternoon. This had been most evident, and the young fellow congratulated himself. He could
keep his word, he could be so jolly a companion as to leave nothing to be desired, and waiting,
after all, would not be a martyrdom. His mood unloosed his tongue and made him eloquent as
he described his experiences in trout-fishing. His words were so simple and vivid that he made
his listeners hear the cool splash and see the foam of the mountain brooks. They saw the shimmer
of the speckled beauties as they leaped for the fly, and felt the tingle of the rod as the
line suddenly tightened, and hear the hum of the reel as the fish darted away in imagined safety.
Burt saw his vantage--was not Amy listening with intent eyes and glowing cheeks?--and he kept
the little group in suspense almost as long as it had taken him to play, land, and kill a three-pound
trout, the chief trophy of his excursion.

Webb was unusually silent, and was conscious of a depression for which he could not account.
All was turning out better than he had predicted. The relations between Burt and Amy were not
only "serene," but were apparently becoming decidedly blissful. The young girl was enthusiastic
over her enjoyment of the afternoon; there were no more delicately veiled defensive tactics
against Burt, and now her face was full of frank admiration of his skill as an angler and of
interest in the wild scenes described. Burt had spent more time in society than over his books
while at college, and was a fluent, easy talker. Webb felt that he suffered in contrast, that
he was grave, heavy, dull, and old--no fit companion for the girl whose laughing eyes so often
rested on his brother's face and responded to his mirth. Perhaps Burt would not have long to
wait; perhaps his rash, passionate words had already given to Amy's girlish unconsciousness
the shock that had destroyed it, and she was learning that she was a woman who could return
love for love. Well, granting this, was it not just what they were all expecting? "But the
change is coming too soon," he complained to himself. "I wish she could keep her gentle, lovable,
yet unapproachable May-day grace a little longer. Then she was like the wind-flower, which
the eyes can linger upon, but which fades almost the moment it is grasped. It made her so different
from other girls of her age. It identified her with the elusive spirit of nature, whose beauty
entrances one, but search and wander where we will, nothing can be found that is distinctly
and tangibly ours or any one's. Amy, belonging definitely to any one, would lose half her charm."

Webb saw and heard all that passed, but in a minor key thoughts like these were forming themselves
with little volition on his part, and were symptoms which as yet he did not understand. In
an interval of mirth, Johnnie heard footsteps on the piazza, and darting out, caught a glimpse
of Mr. Alvord's retreating form. He had come on some errand, and, seeing the group at the supper-table,
had yielded to the impulse to depart unrecognized. This the little girl would by no means permit.
Since Easter an odd friendship had sprung up between her and the lonely man, and she had become
almost his sole visitor. She now called after him, and in a moment was at his side. "Why are
you going away?" she said. "You must not go till I show you my garden."

Maggie joined them, for he deeply enlisted her sympathy, and she wished to make it clear by
her manner that the tie between him and the child had her approval. "Yes, indeed, Mr. Alvord,"
she said, "you must let Johnnie show you her garden, and especially her pansies."

"Heart's-ease is another name for the flower, I believe," he replied, with the glimmer of a
smile. "In that case Johnnie should be called Pansy. I thank you, Mrs. Clifford, that you are
willing to trust your child to a stranger. We had a lovely ramble the other day, and she said
that you told her she might go with me."

"I'm only too glad that you find Johnnie an agreeable little neighbor," Maggie began. "Indeed,
we all feel so neighborly that we hope you will soon cease to think of yourself as a stranger."
But here impatient Johnnie dragged him off to see her garden, and his close and appreciative
attention to all she said and showed to him won the child's heart anew. Amy soon joined them,
and said:

"Mr. Alvord, I wish your congratulations, also. I'm eighteen to-day."

He turned, and looked at her so wistfully for a moment that her eyes fell. "I do congratulate
you," he said, in a low, deep voice. "If I had my choice between all the world and your age,
I'd rather be eighteen again. May your brow always be as serene as it is to-night, Miss Amy."
His eyes passed swiftly from the elder to the younger girl, the one almost as young at heart
and fully as innocent as the other, and then he spoke abruptly: "Good-by, Johnnie. I wish to
see your father a moment on some business;" and he walked rapidly away. By the time they reached
the house he had gone. Amy felt that with the night a darker shadow had fallen upon her happy
day. The deep sadness of a wounded spirit touched her own, she scarcely knew why. It was but
the law of her unwarped, unselfish nature. Even as a happy girl she could not pass by uncaring,
on the other side. She felt that she would like to talk with Webb, as she always did when anything
troubled her; but he, touched with something of Burt's old restlessness, had rambled away in
the moonlight, notwithstanding the fatigues of the day. Therefore she went to the piano and
sang for the old people some of the quaint songs of which she knew they were fond. Burt sat
smoking and listening on the piazza in immeasurable content.

CHAPTER XXXIII

WEBB'S ROSES AND ROMANCE

To Mrs. Clifford the month of June brought the halcyon days of the year. The warm sunshine
revived her, the sub-acid of the strawberry seemed to furnish the very tonic she needed, and
the beauty that abounded on every side, and that was daily brought to her couch, conferred
a happiness that few could understand. Long years of weakness, in which only her mind could
be active, had developed in the invalid a refinement scarcely possible to those who must daily
meet the practical questions of life, and whose more robust natures could enjoy the material
side of existence. It was not strange, therefore, that country life had matured her native
love of flowers into almost a passion, which culminated in her intense enjoyment of the rose
in all its varieties. The family, aware of this marked preference, rarely left her without
these flowers at any season; but in June her eyes feasted on their varied forms and colors,
and she distinguished between her favorites with all the zest and accuracy which a connoisseur
of wines ever brought to bear upon their delicate bouquet. With eyes shut she could name from
its perfume almost any rose with which she was familiar. Therefore, in all the flower-beds
and borders roses abounded, especially the old-fashioned kinds, which are again finding a place
in florists' catalogues. Originally led by love for his mother, Webb, years since, had begun
to give attention to the queen of flowers. He soon found, however, that the words of an English
writer are true, "He who would have beautiful roses in his garden must have them first in his
heart," and there, with queenly power, they soon enthroned themselves. In one corner of the
garden, which was protected on the north and west by a high stone wall, where the soil was
warm, loamy, and well drained, he made a little rose garden. He bought treatises on the flower,
and when he heard of or saw a variety that was particularly fine he added it to his collection.
"Webb is marked with my love of roses," his mother often said, with her low, pleased laugh.
Amy had observed that even in busiest times he often visited his rose garden as if it contained
pets that were never forgotten. He once laughingly remarked that he "gave receptions there
only by special invitation," and so she had never seen the spot except from a distance.

On the third morning after her birthday Amy came down very early. The bird symphony had penetrated
her open windows with such a jubilant resonance that she had been awakened almost with the
dawn. The air was so cool and exhilarating, and there was such a wealth of dewy beauty on every
side, that she yielded to the impulse to go out and enjoy the most delightful hour of the day.
To her surprise, she saw Webb going down the path leading to the garden. "What's on your conscience,"
she cried, "that you can't sleep?"

"What's on yours?" he retorted.

"The shame of leaving so many mornings like this unseen and not enjoyed. I mean to repent and
mend my ways from this time forth; that is, if I wake up. May I go with you?"

"What a droll question!" he replied, in laughing invitation.

"Well, I did not know," she said, joining him, "but that you were going to visit that sanctum
sanctorum of yours."

"I am. Your virtue of early rising is about to be rewarded. You know when some great personage
is to be specially honored, he is given the freedom of a city or library, etc. I shall now
give you the freedom of my rose garden for the rest of the summer, and from this time till
frost you can always find roses for your belt. I meant to do this on your birthday, but the
buds were not sufficiently forward this backward season."

"I'm not a great personage."

"No, thanks, you're not. You are only our Amy."

"I'm content. Oh, Webb, what miracles have you been working here?" she exclaimed, as she passed
through some screening shrubbery, and looked upon a plot given up wholly to roses, many of
which were open, more in the phase of exquisite buds, while the majority were still closely
wrapped in their green calyxes.

"No miracle at all. I've only assisted nature a little. At the same time, let me assure you
that this small place is like a picture-gallery, and that there is a chance here for as nice
discrimination as there would be in a cabinet full of works of art. There are few duplicate
roses in this place, and I have been years in selecting and winnowing this collection. They
are all named varieties, labelled in my mind. I love them too well, and am too familiar with
them, to hang disfiguring bits of wood upon them. One might as well label his friends. Each
one has been chosen and kept because of some individual point of excellence, and you can gradually
learn to recognize these characteristics just as mother does. This plot here is filled with
hardy hybrid perpetuals, and that with tender tea-roses, requiring very different treatment.
Here is a moss that will bloom again in the autumn. It has a sounding name--Soupert-et-notting--but
it is worthy of any name. Though not so mossy as some others, look at its fine form and beautiful
rose-color. Only one or two are out yet, but in a week this bush will be a thing of beauty
that one would certainly wish might last forever. Try its fragrance. Nothing surpasses it unless
it is La France, over there."

She inhaled the exquisite perfume in long breaths, and then looked around at the budding beauty
on every side, even to the stone walls that were covered with climbing varieties. At last she
turned to him with eyes that were dilated as much with wonder as with pleasure, and said: "Well,
this is a surprise. How in the world have you found time to bring all this about? I never saw
anything to equal it even in England. Of course I saw rose gardens there on a larger scale
in the parks and greenhouses, but I have reference to the bushes and flowers. To me it is just
a miracle."

"You are wholly mistaken. Why, Amy, an old gentleman who lives but a few miles away has had
seventy distinct kinds of hybrid perpetuals in bloom at one time, and many of them the finest
in existence; and yet he has but a little mite of a garden, and has been a poor, hard-working
man all his life. Speaking of England, when I read of what the poor working people of Nottingham
accomplished in their little bits of glass-houses and their Liliputian gardens, I know that
all this is very ordinary, and within the reach of almost any one who loves the flower. After
one learns how to grow roses, they do not cost much more care and trouble than a crop of onions
or cabbages. The soil and location here just suit the rose. You see that the place is sheltered,
and yet there are no trees near to shade them and drain the ground of its richness."

"Oh, you are sure to make it all seem simple and natural. It's a way you have," she said, "But
to me it's a miracle. I don't believe there are many who have your feeling for this flower
or your skill."

"You are mistaken again. The love for roses is very common, as it should be, for millions of
plants are sold annually, and the trade in them is steadily increasing. Come, let me give you
a lesson in the distinguishing marks of the different kinds. A rose will smell as sweet by
its own name as by another, and you will find no scentless flowers here. There are some fine
odorless ones, like the Beauty of Stapleford, but I give them no place."

The moments flew by unheeded until an hour had passed, and then Webb, looking at the sun, exclaimed:
"I must go. This will answer for the first lesson. You can bring mother here now in her garden
chair whenever she wishes to come, and I will give you other lessons, until you are a true
connoisseur in roses;" and he looked at those in her cheeks as if they were more lovely than
any to which he had been devoted for years.

"Well, Webb," she said, laughing, "I cannot think of anything lacking in my morning's experience.
I was wakened by the song of birds. You have revealed to me the mystery of your sanctum, and
that alone, you know, would be happiness to the feminine soul. You have also introduced me
to dozens of your sweethearts, for you look at each rose as Burt does at the pretty girls he
meets. You have shown me your budding rose garden in the dewy morning, and that was appropriate,
too. Every one of your pets was gemmed and jewelled for the occasion, and unrivalled musicians,
cleverly concealed in the trees near, have filled every moment with melody. What more could
I ask? But where are you going with that basket?"

"To gather strawberries for breakfast. There are enough ripe this morning. You gather roses
in the other basket. Why should we not have them for breakfast, also?"

"Why not, indeed, since it would seem that there are to be thousands here and elsewhere in
the garden? Fresh roses and strawberries for breakfast-- that's country life to perfection.
Good-by."

He went away as if in a dream, and his heart almost ached with a tension of feeling that he
could not define. It seemed to him the culmination of all that he had loved and enjoyed. His
rose garden had been complete at this season the year before, but now that Amy had entered
it, the roses that she had touched, admired, and kissed with lips that vied with their petals
grew tenfold more beautiful, and the spot seemed sacred to her alone. He could never enter
it again without thinking of her and seeing her lithe form bending to favorites which hitherto
he had only associated with his mother. His life seemed so full and his happiness so deep that
he did not want to think, and would not analyze according to his habit.

He brought the strawberries to Amy in the breakfast-room, and stood near while she and Johnnie
hulled them. He saw the roses arranged by his mother's plate in such nice harmony that one
color did not destroy another. He replied to her mirthful words and rallyings, scarcely knowing
what he said, so deep was the feeling that oppressed him, so strong was his love for that sweet
sister who had come into his life and made it ideally perfect. She appreciated what he had
loved so fully, her very presence had ever kindled his spirit, and while eager to learn and
easily taught, how truly she was teaching him a philosophy of life that seemed divine! What
more could he desire? The day passed in a confused maze of thought and happiness, so strange
and absorbing that he dared not speak lest he should waken as from a dream. The girl had grown
so beautiful to him that he scarcely wished to look at her, and hastened through his meals
that he might be alone with his thoughts. The sun had sunk, and the moon was well over the
eastern mountains, before he visited the rose garden. Amy was there, and she greeted him with
a pretty petulance because he had not come before. Then, in sudden compunction, she asked:

"Don't you feel well, Webb? You have been so quiet since we were here this morning! Perhaps
you are sorry you let me into this charmed seclusion."

"No, Amy, I am not," he said, with an impetuosity very unusual in him. "You should know me
better than even to imagine such a thing."

Before he could say anything more, Burt's mellow voice rang out, "Amy!"

"Oh, I half forgot; I promised to take a drive with Burt this evening. Forgive me, Webb," she
added, gently, "I only spoke in sport. I do know you too well to imagine I am unwelcome here.
No one ever had a kinder or more patient brother than you have been to me;" and she clasped
her hands upon his arm, and looked up into his face with frank affection.

His arm trembled under her touch, and he felt that he must be alone. In his usual quiet tones,
however, he was able to say: "You, rather, must forgive me that I spoke so hastily. No; I'm
not ill, but very tired. A good night's rest will bring me around. Go and enjoy your drive
to the utmost."

"Webb, you work too hard," she said, earnestly. "But Burt is calling--"

"Yes; do not keep him waiting; and think of me," he added, laughing, "as too weary for moonlight,
roses, or anything but prosaic sleep. June is all very well, but it brings a pile of work to
a fellow like me."

"Oh, Webb, what a clodhopper you're trying to make yourself out to be! Well, 'Sleep, sleep'--I
can't think of the rest of the quotation. Good-by. Yes, I'm coming!" rang out her clear voice;
and, with a smiling glance backward, she hastened away.

From the shrubbery he watched her pass up the wide garden path, the moonlight giving an ethereal
beauty to her slight form with its white, close drapery. Then, deeply troubled, he threw himself
on a rustic seat near the wall, and buried his face in his hands. It was all growing too clear
to him now, and he found himself face to face with the conviction that Amy was no longer his
sister, but the woman he loved. The deep-hidden current of feeling that had been gathering
volume for months at last flashed out into the light, and there could be no more disguise.
The explanation of her power over him was now given to his deepest consciousness. By some law
of his nature, when she spoke he had ever listened; whatever she said and did had been invested
with a nameless charm. Day after day they had been together, and their lives had harmonized
like two chords that blend in one sweet sound. He had never had a sister, and his growing interest
in Amy had seemed the most natural thing in the world; that Burt should love her, equally natural--to
fall in love was almost a habit with the mercurial young fellow when thrown into the society
of a pretty girl--and he had felt that he should be only too glad that his brother had at last
fixed his thoughts on one who would not be a stranger to them. He now remembered that, while
all this had been satisfactory to reason, his heart for a long time had been uttering its low,
half-conscious protest. Now he knew why. The events of this long day had revealed him unto
himself, because he was ripe for the knowledge.

His nature had its hard, practical business side, but he had never been content with questions
of mere profit and loss. He not only had wanted the corn, but the secret of the corn's growth
and existence. To search into Nature's hidden life, so that he could see through her outward
forms the mechanism back of all, and trace endless diversity to simple inexorable laws, had
been his pride and the promised solace of his life. His love of the rose had been to him what
it is to many another hard-working man and woman--recreation, a habit, something for which
he had developed the taste and feeling of a connoisseur. It had had no appreciable influence
on the current of his thoughts. Amy's coming, however, had awakened the poetic side of his
temperament, and, while this had taken nothing from the old, it had changed everything. Before,
his life had been like nature in winter, when all things are in hard, definite outline. The
feeling which she had inspired brought the transforming flowers and foliage. It was an immense
addition to that which already existed, and which formed the foundation for it. For a long
time he had exulted in this inflorescence of his life, as it were, and was more than content.
He did not know that the spirit gifted even unconsciously with the power thus to develop his
own nature must soon become to him more than a cause of an effect, more than a sister upon
whom he could look with as tranquil eyes and even pulse in youth as in frosty age. But now
he knew it with the absolute certainty that was characteristic of his mind when once it grasped
a truth. The voice of Burt calling "Amy," after the experiences of the day, had been like a
shaft of light, instantly revealing everything. For her sake more than his own he had exerted
himself to the utmost to conceal the truth of that moment of bitter consciousness. He trembled
as he thought of his blind, impetuous words and her look of surprise; he grew cold with dread
as he remembered how easily he might have betrayed himself.

And now what should he do? what could he do but hide the truth with sleepless vigilance? He
could not become his brother's rival. In the eyes of Amy and all the family Burt was her acknowledged
suitor, who, having been brought to reason, was acting most rationally and honorably. Whether
Amy was learning to love him or not made no difference. If she, growing conscious of her womanhood,
was turning her thoughts to Burt as the one who had first sought her, and who was now cheerfully
waiting until the look of shy choice and appeal came into her eyes, he could not seek to thrust
his younger brother aside. If the illustration of the rose which she had forced into unnatural
bloom was still true of her heart, he would be false to her and himself, as well as to Burt,
should he seek her in the guise of a lover. He had felt that it was almost sacrilege to disturb
her May-like girlhood; that this child of nature should be left wholly to nature's impulses
and to nature's hour for awakening.

"If it only could have been, how rich and full life would be!" he thought. "We were in sympathy
at almost every point When shall I forget the hour we spent here this morning! The exquisite
purity and beauty of the dawn, the roses with the dew upon them, seemed emblems of herself.
Hereafter they will ever speak to me of her. That perfume that comes on the breeze to me now
from the wild grapevine--the most delicate and delightful of all the odors of June--is instantly
associated with her in my mind, as all things lovely in nature ever will be hereafter. How
can I hide all this from her, and seem merely her quiet elder brother? How can I meet her here
to-morrow morning, and in the witchery of summer evenings, and still speak in measured tones,
and look at her as I would at Johnnie? The thing is impossible until I have gained a stronger
self-control. I must go away for a day or two, and I will. When I return neither Burt nor Amy
shall have cause to complain;" and he strode away.

The evening mail brought an excuse. A firm to whom the Cliffords had been sending part of their
produce had not given full satisfaction, and Webb announced his intention of going to the city
in the morning to investigate matters. His father and Leonard approved of his purpose, and
when he added that he might stay in town for two or three days, that he felt the need of a
little change and rest before haying and harvest began, they all expressed their approval still
more heartily.

The night was so beautiful that Burt prolonged his drive. The witchery of the romantic scenery
through which he and Amy passed, and the loveliness of her profile in the pale light, almost
broke down his resolution, and once, in accents much too tender, he said, "Oh, Amy, I am so
happy when with you!"

"I'm happy with you also," she replied, in brusque tones, "now that you have become so sensible."

He took the hint, and said, emphatically: "Don't you ever be apprehensive or nervous when with
me. I'll wait, and be 'sensible,' as you express it, till I'm gray."

Her laugh rang out merrily, but she made no other reply. He was a little nettled, and mentally
vowed a constancy that would one day make her regret that laugh.

Webb had retired when Amy returned, and she learned of his plans from Maggie. "It's just the
best thing he can do," she said, earnestly. "Webb's been overworking, and he needs and deserves
a little rest."

In the morning he seemed so busy with his preparations that he had scarcely time to give her
more than a genial off-hand greeting.

"Oh, Webb, I shall miss you so much!" she said, in parting, and her look was very kind and
wistful. He did not trust himself to speak, but gave her a humorous and what seemed to her
a half-incredulous smile. He puzzled her, and she thought about him and his manner of the previous
day and evening not a little. With her sensitive nature, she could not approach so near the
mystery that he was striving to conceal without being vaguely impressed that there was something
unusual about him. The following day, however, brought a cheerful, business-like letter to
his father, which was read at the dinner-table. He had straightened out matters in town and
seemed to be enjoying himself. She more than once admitted that she did miss him as she would
not any other member of the household. But her out-door life was very full. By the aid of her
glass she made the intimate acquaintance of her favorite songsters. Every day she took Mrs.
Clifford in her garden chair to the rosary, and proposed through her instruction to give Webb
a surprise when he returned. She would prove to him that she could name his pets from their
fragrance, form, and color as well as he himself.

CHAPTER XXXIV

A SHAM BATTLE AT WEST POINT

Burt did his best to keep things lively, and a few days after Webb's departure said: "I've
heard that there is to be a sham battle at West Point this afternoon. Suppose we go and see it."

The heavy guns from the river batteries had been awakening deep echoes among the mountains
every afternoon for some time past, reminding the Cliffords that the June examinations were
taking place at the Military Academy, and that there was much of interest occurring near them.
Not only did Amy assent to Burt's proposition, but Leonard also resolved to go and take Maggie
and the children. In the afternoon a steam-yacht bore them and many other excursionists to
their destination, and they were soon skirting the grassy plain on which the military evolutions
were to take place.

The scene was full of novelty and interest for Amy. Thousands of people were there, representing
every walk and condition of life. Plain farmers with their wives and children, awkward country
fellows with their sweethearts, dapper clerks with bleached hands and faces, were passing to
and fro among ladies in Parisian toilets and with the unmistakable air of the metropolis. There
were officers with stars upon their shoulders, and others, quite as important in their bearing,
decorated with the insignia of a second lieutenant. Plain-looking men were pointed out as senators,
and elegantly dressed men were, at a glance, seen to be nobodies. Scarcely a type was wanting
among those who came to see how the nation's wards were drilled and prepared to defend the
nation's honor and maintain peace at the point of the bayonet. On the piazzas of the officers'
quarters were groups of favored people whose relations or distinguished claims were such as
to give them this advantage over those who must stand where they could to see the pageant.
The cadets in their gray uniforms were conspicuously absent, but the band was upon the plain
discoursing lively music. From the inclosure within the barracks came the long roll of a drum,
and all eyes turned thitherward expectantly. Soon from under the arched sally-port two companies
of cadets were seen issuing on the double-quick. They crossed the plain with the perfect time
and precision of a single mechanism, and passed down into a depression of the ground toward
the river. After an interval the other two companies came out in like manner, and halted on
the plain within a few hundred yards of this depression, their bayonets scintillating in the
unclouded afternoon sun. Both parties were accompanied by mounted cadet officers. The body
on the plain threw out pickets, stacked arms, and lounged at their ease. Suddenly a shot was
fired to the eastward, then another, and in that direction the pickets were seen running in.
With marvellous celerity the loungers on the plain seized their muskets, formed ranks, and
faced toward the point from which the attack was threatened. A skirmish line was thrown out,
and this soon met a similar line advancing from the depression, sloping eastward. Behind the
skirmishers came a compact line of battle, and it advanced steadily until within fair musket
range, when the firing became general. While the attacking party appeared to fight resolutely,
it was soon observed that they made no further effort to advance, but sought only to occupy
the attention of the party to which they were opposed.

The Cliffords stood on the northwestern edge of the plain near the statue of General Sedgwick,
and from this point they could also see what was occurring in the depression toward the river.
"Turn, Amy, quick, and see what's coming," cried Burt. Stealing up the hillside in solid column
was another body of cadets. A moment later they passed near on the double-quick, went into
battle formation on the run, and with loud shouts charged the flank and rear of the cadets
on the plain, who from the first had sustained the attack. These seemed thrown into confusion,
for they were now between two fires. After a moment of apparent indecision they gave way rapidly
in seeming defeat and rout, and the two attacking parties drew together in pursuit. When they
had united, the pursued, who a moment before had seemed a crowd of fugitives, became almost
instantly a steady line of battle. The order, "Charge!" rang out, and, with fixed bayonets,
they rushed upon their assailants, and steadily drove them back over the plain, and down into
their original position. It was all carried out with a far degree of life-like reality. The
"sing" of minie bullets was wanting, but abundance of noise and sulphurous smoke can be made
with blank cartridges; and as the party attacked plucked victory from seeming defeat, the people's
acclamations were loud and long.

At this point the horse of one of the cadet officers became unmanageable. They had all observed
this rider during the battle, admiring the manner in which he restrained the vicious brute,
but at last the animal's excitement or fear became so great that he rushed toward the crowded
sidewalk and road in front of the officers' quarters. The people gave way to right and left.
Burt had scarcely time to do more than encircle Amy with his arm and sweep her out of the path
of the terrified beast. The cadet made heroic efforts, until it was evident that the horse
would dash into the iron fence beyond the road, and then the young fellow was off and on his
feet with the agility of a cat, but he still maintained his hold upon the bridle. A second
later there was a heavy thud heard above the screams of women and children and the shouts of
those vociferating advice. The horse fell heavily in his recoil from the fence, and in a moment
or two was led limping and crestfallen away, while the cadet quietly returned to his comrades
on the plain. Johnnie and little Ned were crying from fright, and both Amy and Maggie were
pale and nervous; therefore Leonard led the way out of the crowd. From a more distant point
they saw the party beneath the hill rally for a final and united charge, which this time proved
successful, and the companies on the plain, after a stubborn resistance, were driven back to
the barracks, and through the sally-port, followed by their opponents. The clouds of smoke
rolled away, the band struck up a lively air, and the lines of people broke up into groups
and streamed in all directions. Leonard decided that it would be best for them to return by
the evening boat, and not wait for parade, since the little yacht would certainly be overcrowded
at a later hour.

CHAPTER XXXV

CHASED BY A THUNDER-SHOWER

The first one on the "Powell" to greet them was Webb, returning from the city. Amy thought
he looked so thin as to appear almost haggard, but he seemed in the best of spirits, and professed
to feel well and rested. She half imagined that she missed a certain gentleness in his words
and manner toward her, but when he heard how nearly she had been trampled upon, she was abundantly
satisfied by his look of deep affection and solicitude as he said: "Heaven bless your strong,
ready arm, Burt!" "Oh, that it had been mine!" was his inward thought. He masked his feelings
so well, however, that all perplexity passed from her mind. She was eager to visit the rose
garden with him, and when there he praised her quickly acquired skill so sincerely that her
face flushed with pleasure. No one seemed to enjoy the late but ample supper more than he,
or to make greater havoc in the well-heaped dish of strawberries. "I tasted none like these
in New York," he said. "After all, give me the old-fashioned kind. We've tried many varieties,
but the Triomphe de Gand proves the most satisfactory, if one will give it the attention it
deserves. The fruit ripens early and lasts till late. It is firm and good even in cool, wet
weather, and positively delicious after a sunny day like this."

"I agree with you, Webb," said his mother, smiling. "It's the best of all the kinds we've had,
except, perhaps, the President Wilder, but that doesn't bear well in our garden."

"Well, mother," he replied, with a laugh, "the best is not too good for you. I have a row of
Wilders, however, for your especial benefit, but they're late, you know."

The next morning he went into the haying with as much apparent zest as Leonard. They began
with red-top clover. The growth had been so heavy that in many places it had "lodged," or fallen,
and it had to be cut with scythes. Later on, the mowing-machine would be used in the timothy
fields and meadows. Amy, from her open window, watched him as he steadily bent to the work,
and she inhaled with pleasure the odors from the bleeding clover, for it was the custom of
the Cliffords to cut their grasses early, while full of the native juices. Rakes followed the
scythes speedily, and the clover was piled up into compact little heaps, or "cocks," to sweat
out its moisture rather than yield it to the direct rays of the sun.

"Oh, dear!" said Amy, at the dinner-table, "my bees won't fare so well, now that you are cutting
down so much of their pasture."

"Red clover affords no pasturage for honey-bees," said Webb, laughing. "How easily he seems
to laugh of late!" Amy thought. "They can't reach the honey in the long, tube-like blossoms.
Here the bumble-bees have everything their way, and get it all except what is sipped by the
humming-birds, with their long beaks, as they feed on the minute insects within the flowers.
I've heard the question, Of what use are bumble-bees?--I like to say bumble best, as I did
when a boy. Well, I've been told that red clover cannot be raised without this insect, which,
passing from flower to flower, carries the fertilizing pollen. In Australia the rats and the
field mice were so abundant that they destroyed these bees, which, as you know, make their
nests on the ground, and so cats had to be imported in order to give the bumble-bees and red
clover a chance for life. There is always trouble in nature unless an equilibrium is kept up.
Much as I dislike cats, I must admit that they have contributed largely toward the prosperity
of an incipient empire."

"When I was a boy," remarked Leonard, "I was cruel enough to catch bumble-bees and pull them
apart for the sake of the sac of honey they carry."

Alf hung his head, and looked very conscious. "Own up, Alf," laughed Webb.

"Well, I ain't any worse than papa," said the boy.

All through the afternoon the musical sound of whetting the scythes with the rifle rang out
from time to time, and in the evening Leonard said, "If this warm, dry weather holds till to-morrow
night, we shall get in our clover in perfect condition."

On the afternoon of the following day the two-horse wagon, surmounted by the hay-rack, went
into the barn again and again with its fragrant burden; but at last Amy was aroused from her
book by a heavy vibration of thunder. Going to a window facing the west, she saw a threatening
cloud that every moment loomed vaster and darker. The great vapory heads, tipped with light,
towered rapidly, until at last the sun passed into a sudden eclipse that was so deep as to
create almost a twilight. As the cloud approached, there was a low, distant, continuous sound,
quite distinct from nearer and heavier peals, which after brief and briefer intervals followed
the lightning gleams athwart the gloom. She saw that the hay-makers were gathering the last
of the clover, and raking, pitching, and loading with eager haste, their forms looking almost
shadowy in the distance and the dim light. Their task was nearly completed, and the horses'
heads were turned barnward, when a flash of blinding intensity came, with an instantaneous
crash, that roared away to the eastward with deep reverberations. Amy shuddered, and covered
her face with her hands. When she looked again, the clover-field and all that it contained
seemed annihilated. The air was thick with dust, straws, twigs, and foliage torn away, and
the gust passed over the house with a howl of fury scarcely less appalling than the thunder-peal
had been. Trembling, and almost faint with fear, sho strained her eyes toward the point where
she had last seen Webb loading the hay-rack. The murky obscurity lightened up a little, and
in a moment or two she saw him whipping the horses into a gallop. The doors of the barn stood
open, and the rest of the workers had taken a cross-cut toward it, while Mr. Clifford was on
the piazza, shouting for them to hurry. Great drops splashed against the window-panes, and
the heavy, monotonous sound of the coming torrent seemed to approach like the rush of a locomotive.
Webb, with the last load, is wheeling to the entrance of the barn. A second later, and the
horses' feet resound on the planks of the floor. Then all is hidden, and the rain pours against
the window like a cataract. In swift alternation of feeling she clapped her hands in applause,
and ran down to meet Mr. Clifford, who, with much effort, was shutting the door against the
gale. When he turned he rubbed his hands and laughed as he said, "Well, I never saw Webb chased
so sharply by a thunder-shower before; but he won the race, and the clover's safe."

The storm soon thundered away to parts unknown, the setting sun spanning its retreating murkiness
with a magnificent bow; long before the rain ceased the birds were exulting in jubilant chorus,
and the air grew still and deliciously cool and fragrant. When at last the full moon rose over
the Beacon Mountains there was not a cloud above the horizon, and Nature, in all her shower-gemmed
and June-clad loveliness, was like a radiant beauty lost in revery.

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE RESCUE OF A HOME

Who remembers when his childhood ceased? Who can name the hour when buoyant, thoughtless, half-reckless
youth felt the first sobering touch of manhood, or recall the day when he passed over the summit
of his life, and faced the long decline of age? As imperceptibly do the seasons blend when
one passes and merges into another. There were traces of summer in May, lingering evidences
of spring far into June, and even in sultry July came days in which the wind in the groves
and the chirp of insects at night foretold the autumn.

The morning that followed the thunder-shower was one of warm, serene beauty. The artillery
of heaven had done no apparent injury. A rock may have been riven in the mountains, a lonely
tree splintered, but homes were safe, the warm earth was watered, and the air purified. With
the dawn Amy's bees were out at work, gleaning the last sweets from the white clover, that
was on the wane, from the flowers of the garden, field, and forest. The rose garden yielded
no honey: the queen of flowers is visited by no bees. The sweetbrier, or eglantine, belonging
to this family is an exception, however, and if the sweets of these wild roses could be harvested,
an Ariel would not ask for daintier sustenance.

White and delicate pink hues characterize the flowers of early spring. In June the wild blossoms
emulate the skies, and blue predominates. In July and August many of the more sensitive in
Flora's train blush crimson under the direct gaze of the sun. Yellow hues hold their own throughout
the year, from the dandelions that first star the fields to the golden-rod that flames until
quenched by frost and late autumn storms.

During the latter part of June the annual roses of the garden were in all stages and conditions.
Beautiful buds could be gleaned among the developing seed receptacles and matured flowers that
were casting their petals on every breeze. The thrips and the disgusting rose-bug were also
making havoc here and there. But an untiring vigilance watched over the rose garden. Morning,
noon, and evening Webb cut away the fading roses, and Amy soon learned to aid him, for she
saw that his mind was bent on maintaining the roses in this little nook at the highest attainable
point of perfection. It is astonishing how greatly nature can be assisted and directed by a
little skilled labor at the right time. Left to themselves, the superb varieties in the rose
garden would have spent the remainder of the summer and autumn chiefly in the development of
seed-vessels, and in resting after their first bloom. But the pruning-knife had been too busy
among them, and the thoroughly fertilized soil sent up supplies that must be disposed of. As
soon as the bushes had given what may be termed their first annual bloom they were cut back
halfway to the ground, and dormant buds were thus forced into immediate growth. Meanwhile the
new shoots that in spring had started from the roots were already loaded with buds, and so,
by a little management and attention, the bloom would be maintained until frosty nights should
bring the sleep of winter. No rose-bug escaped Webb's vigilant search, and the foliage was
so often sprayed by a garden syringe with an infusion of white hellebore that thrips and slugs
met their deserved fate before they had done any injury. Thus for Mrs. Clifford and Amy was
maintained a supply of these exquisite flowers, which in a measure became a part of their daily
food.

Nature was culminating. On every side was the fulfilment of its innumerable promises. The bluebird,
with the softness of June in his notes, had told his love amid the snows and gales of March,
and now, with unabated constancy, and with all a father's solicitude, he was caring for his
third nestful of fledglings. Young orioles were essaying flight from their wind-rocked cradles
on the outer boughs of the elms. Phoebe-birds, with nests beneath bridges over running streams,
had, nevertheless, the skill to land their young on the banks. Nature was like a vast nursery,
and from gardens, lawns, fields, and forest the cries and calls of feathered infancy were heard
all day, and sometimes in the darkness, as owls, hawks, and other night prowlers added to the
fearful sum of the world's tragedies. The cat-birds, that had built in some shrubbery near
the house, had by the last of June done much to gain Amy's good-will and respect. As their
domestic character and operations could easily be observed, she had visited them almost daily
from the time they had laid the dry-twig and leafy foundation of their nest until its lining
of fine dry grasses was completed. She bad found that, although inclined to mock and gibe at
outsiders, they were loyal and affectionate to each other. In their home-building, in the incubation
of the deep bluish-green eggs, and in the care of the young, now almost ready to fly, they
had been mutually helpful and considerate, fearless and even fierce in attacking all who approached
too near their domicile. To Amy and her daily visits they had become quite reconciled, even
as she had grown interested in them, in spite of a certain lack of the high breeding which
characterized the thrushes and other favorites.

"My better acquaintance with them," she said one evening to Dr. Marvin, who, with his wife,
had stopped at the Cliffords' in passing, "has taught me a lesson. I think I'm too much inclined
to sweeping censure on the exhibition of a few disagreeable traits. I've learned that the gossips
in yonder bushes have some excellent qualities, and I suppose you find that this is true of
the gossips among your patients."

"Yes," replied the doctor, "but the human gossips draw the more largely on one's charity; and
if you knew how many pestiferous slugs and insects your neighbors in the shrubbery have already
destroyed, the human genus of gossip would suffer still more in comparison."

That Amy had become so interested in these out-door neighbors turned out to their infinite
advantage, for one morning their excited cries of alarm secured her attention. Hastening to
the locality of their nest, she looked upon a scene that chilled the blood in her own veins.
A huge black-snake suspended his weight along the branches of the shrubbery with entire confidence
and ease, and was in the act of swallowing a fledgling that, even as Amy looked, sent out its
last despairing peep. The parent birds were frantic with terror, and their anguish and fearless
efforts to save their young redeemed them forever in Amy's eyes.

"Webb!" she cried, since, for some reason, he ever came first to her mind in an emergency.
It so happened that he had just come from the hay field to rest awhile and prepare for dinner.
In a moment he was at her side, and followed with hasty glance her pointing finger.

"Come away, Amy," he said, as he looked at her pale face and dilated eyes. "I do not wish you
to witness a scene like that;" and almost by force he drew her to the piazza. In a moment he
was out with a breech-loading gun, and as the smoke of the discharge lifted, she saw a writhing,
sinuous form fall heavily to the earth. After a brief inspection Webb came toward her in smiling
assurance, saying: "The wretch got only one of the little family. Four birds are left. There
now, don't feel so badly. You have saved a home from utter desolation. That, surely, will be
a pleasant thing to remember."

"What could I have done if you had not come?"

"I don't like to think of what you might have done--emulated the mother-bird, perhaps, and
flown at the enemy."

"I did not know you were near when I called your name," she said. "It was entirely instinctive
on my part; and I believe," she added, musingly, looking with a child's directness into his
eyes, "that one's instincts are usually right; don't you?"

He turned away to hide the feeling of intense pleasure caused by her words, but only said,
in a low voice, "I hope I may never fail you, Amy, when you turn to me for help." Then he added,
quickly, as if hastening away from delicate ground: "While those large black-snakes are not
poisonous, they are ugly customers sometimes. I have read of an instance in which a boy put
his hand into the hole of a tree where there had been a bluebird's nest, and touched the cold
scales of one of these snakes. The boy took to his heels, with the snake after him, and it
is hard to say what would have happened had not a man plowing near come to the rescue with
a heavy ox-whip. What I should fear most in your case would be a nervous shock had the snake
even approached you, for you looked as if you had inherited from Mother Eve an unusual degree
of hate for the reptile."

The report of the gun had attracted Alf and others to the scene. Amy, with a look of smiling
confidence, said: "Perhaps you have rescued me as well as the birds. I can't believe, though,
that such a looking creature could have tempted Eve to either good or evil;" and she entered
the house, leaving him in almost a friendly mood toward the cause of the cat-bird's woe.

Alf exulted over the slain destroyer, and even Johnnie felt no compunction at the violent termination
of its life. The former, with much sportsmanlike importance, measured it, and at the dinner-table
announced its length to be a little over four feet.

"By the way," said Webb, "your adventure, Amy, reminds me of one of the finest descriptions
I ever read;" and jumping up, he obtained from the library Burroughs's account of a like scene
and rescue. When she was a child "Paradise Lost" had been her story-book, and the stories had
become real to her. Burt, however, not to be outdone, recalled his classics.

"By the way," he said, "I can almost parallel your description from the 'Iliad' of Homer. I
won't pretend that I can give you the Greek, and no doubt it would be Greek to you. I'll get
even with you, Webb, however, and read an extract from Pope's translation," and he also made
an excursion to the library. Returning, he said, "Don't ask me for the connection," and read:

  "'Straight to the tree his sanguine spires he rolled,
    And curled around in many a winding fold.

"Bravo!" cried Leonard. "I am now quite reconciled to your four years at college. Heretofore
I had thought you had passed through it as Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego passed through the
fiery furnace, without even the smell of fire upon their garments, but I now at last detect
a genuine Greek aroma."

"I think Burt's quotation very pat," said Amy, "and I could not have believed that anything
written so long ago would apply so marvellously to what I have seen to-day."

"Marvellously pat, indeed," said Leonard. "And since your quotation has led to such a nice
little pat on your classical back, Burt, you must feel repaid for your long burning of the
midnight oil."

Burt flushed slightly, but he turned Leonard's shafts with smiling assurance, and said: "Amply
repaid. I have ever had an abiding confidence that my education would be of use to me at some
time."

The long days grew hot, and often sultry, but the season brought unremitting toil. The click
of the mowing-machine, softened by distance, came from field after field. As the grain in the
rye grew plump and heavy, the heads drooped more and more, and changed from a pale yellow to
the golden hue that announced the hour of harvest. In smooth and level fields the reaping-machine
also lightened and expedited labor, but there was one upland slope that was too rough for anything
except the old-fashioned cradle. On a breezy afternoon Amy went out to sketch the harvesters,
and from the shade of an adjacent tree to listen to the rhythmical rush and rustle as the blade
passed through the hollow stocks, and the cradle dropped the gathered wealth in uniform lines.
Almost immediately the prostrate grain was transformed into tightly girthed sheaves. How black
Abram's great paw looked as he twisted a wisp of straw, bound together the yellow stalks, and
tucked under the end of his improvised rope!

Webb was leading the reapers, and they had to step quickly to keep pace with him. As Amy appeared
upon the scene he had done no more than take off his hat and wave it to her, but as the men
circled round the field near her again, she saw that her acquaintance of the mountain cabin
was manfully bringing up the rear. Every time, before Lumley stooped to the sweep of his cradle,
she saw that he stole a glance toward her, and she recognized him with cordial good-will. He,
too, doffed his hat in grateful homage, and as he paused a moment in his honest toil, and stood
erect, he unconsciously asserted the manhood that she had restored to him. She caught his attitude,
and he became the subject of her sketch. Rude and simple though it was, it would ever recall
to her a pleasant picture--the diminishing area of standing rye, golden in the afternoon sunshine,
with light billows running over it before the breeze, Webb leading, with the strong, assured
progress that would ever characterize his steps through life, and poor Lumley, who had been
wronged by generations that had passed away, as well as by his own evil, following in an honest
emulation which she had evoked.

CHAPTER XXXVII

A MIDNIGHT TEMPEST

As far as possible, the prudent Leonard, who was commander-in-chief of the harvest campaign,
had made everything snug before the Fourth of July, which Alf ushered in with untimely patriotic
fervor. Almost before the first bird had taken its head from under its wing to look for the
dawn, he had fired a salute from a little brass cannon. Not very long afterward the mountains
up and down the river were echoing with the thunder of the guns at West Point and Newburgh.
The day bade fair to justify its proverbial character for sultriness. Even in the early morning
the air was languid and the heat oppressive. The sun was but a few hours high before the song
of the birds almost ceased, with the exception of the somewhat sleepy whistling of the orioles.
They are half tropical in nature as well as plumage, and their manner during the heat of the
day is like that of languid Southern beauties. They kept flitting here and there through their
leafy retirement in a mild form of restlessness, exchanging soft notes--pretty nonsense, no
doubt--which often terminated abruptly, as if they had not energy enough to complete the brief
strain attempted.

Alf, with his Chinese crackers and his cannon, and Johnnie and Ned, with their torpedoes, kept
things lively during the forenoon, but their elders were disposed to lounge and rest. The cherry-trees,
laden with black and white ox-hearts, were visited. One of the former variety was fairly sombre
with the abundance of its dark-hued fruit, and Amy's red lips grew purple as Burt threw her
down the largest and ripest from the topmost boughs. Webb, carrying a little basket lined with
grapevine leaves, gleaned the long row of Antwerp raspberries. The first that ripen of this
kind are the finest and most delicious, and their strong aroma announced his approach long
before he reached the house. His favorite Triomphe de Grand strawberries, that had supplied
the table three weeks before, were still yielding a fair amount of fruit, and his mother was
never without her dainty dish of pale red berries, to which the sun had been adding sweetness
with the advancing season until nature's combination left nothing to be desired.

By noon the heat was oppressive, and Alf and Ned were rolling on the grass under a tree, quite
satiated for a time with two elements of a boy's elysium, fire-crackers and cherries. The family
gathered in the wide hall, through the open doors of which was a slight draught of air. All
had donned their coolest costumes, and their talk was quite as languid as the occasional notes
and chirpings of the birds without. Amy was reading a magazine in a very desultory way, her
eyelids drooping over every page before it was finished, Webb and Burt furtively admiring the
exquisite hues that the heat brought into her face, and the soft lustre of her eyes. Old Mr.
Clifford nodded over his newspaper until his spectacles clattered to the floor, at which they
all laughed, and asked for the news. His invalid wife lay upon the sofa in dreamy, painless
repose. To her the time was like a long, quiet nooning by the wayside of life, with all her
loved band around her, and her large, dark eyes rested on one and another in loving, lingering
glances--each so different, yet each so dear! Sensible Leonard was losing no time, but was
audibly resting in a great wooden rocking-chair at the further end of the hall. Maggie only,
the presiding genius of the household, was not wilted by the heat. She flitted in and out occasionally,
looking almost girlish in her white wrapper. She had the art of keeping house, of banishing
dust and disorder without becoming an embodiment of dishevelled disorder herself. No matter
what she was doing, she always appeared trim and neat, and in the lover-like expression of
her husband's eyes, as they often followed her, she had her reward. She was not deceived by
the semi-torpid condition of the household, and knew well what would be expected in a Fourth-of-July
dinner. Nor was she disappointed. The tinkle of the bell at two o'clock awakened unusual animation,
and then she had her triumph. Leonard beamed upon a hind-quarter of lamb roasted to the nicest
turn of brownness. A great dish of Champion-of-England pease, that supreme product of the kitchen-garden,
was one of the time-honored adjuncts, while new potatoes, the first of which had been dug that
day, had half thrown off their mottled jackets in readiness for the feast. Nature had been
Maggie's handmaid in spreading that table, and art, with its culinary mysteries and combinations,
was conspicuously absent. If Eve had had a kitchen range and the Garden of Eden to draw upon,
Adam could scarcely have fared better than did the Clifford household that day. The dishes
heaped with strawberries, raspberries, cherries, and white grape-currants that had been gathered
with the dew upon them might well tempt the most blase resident of a town to man's primal calling.

Before they reached their iced tea, which on this hot day took the place of coffee, there was
a distant peal of thunder.

"I knew it would come," said old Mr. Clifford. "We shall have a cool night, after all."

"A Fourth rarely passes without showers," Leonard remarked. "That's why I was so strenuous
about getting all our grass and grain that was down under cover yesterday."

"You are not the only prudent one," Maggie added, complacently. "I've made my currant jelly,
and it jellied beautifully: it always does if I make it before the Fourth and the showers that
come about this time. It's queer, but a rain on the currants after they are fairly ripe almost
spoils them for jelly."

The anticipations raised by the extreme sultriness were fulfilled at first only in part. Instead
of a heavy shower accompanied by violent gusts, there was a succession of tropical and vertical
down-pourings, with now and then a sharp flash and a rattling peal, but usually a heavy monotone
of thunder from bolts flying in the distance. One great cloud did not sweep across the sky
like a concentrated charge, leaving all clear behind it, as is so often the case, but, as if
from an immense reserve, Nature appeared to send out her vapory forces by battalions. Instead
of enjoying the long siesta which she had promised herself, Amy spent the afternoon in watching
the cloud scenery. A few miles southwest of the house was a prominent highland that happened
to be in the direct line of the successive showers. This formed a sort of gauge of their advance.
A cloud would loom up behind it, darken it, obscure it until it faded out even as a shadow;
then the nearer spurs of the mountains would be blotted out, and in eight or ten minutes even
the barn and the adjacent groves would be but dim outlines through the myriad rain-drops. The
cloud would soon be well to the eastward, the dim landscape take form and distinctness, and
the distant highland appear again, only to be obscured in like manner within the next half-hour.
It was as if invisible and Titanic gardeners were stepping across the country with their watering-pots.

Burt and Webb sat near Amy at the open window, the former chatting easily, and often gayly.
Webb, with his deep-set eyes fixed on the clouds, was comparatively silent. At last he rose
somewhat abruptly, and was not seen again until evening, when he seemed to be in unusually
good spirits. As the dusk deepened he aided Alf and Johnnie in making the finest possible display
of their fireworks, and for half an hour the excitement was intense. The family applauded from
the piazza. Leonard and his father, remembering the hay and grain already stored in the barn,
congratulated each other that the recent showers had prevented all danger from sparks.

After the last rocket had run its brief, fiery course, Alf and Johnnie were well content to
go with Webb, Burt, and Amy to an upper room whose windows looked out on Newburgh Bay and to
the westward. Near and far, from their own and the opposite side of the river, rockets were
flaming into the sky, and Roman candles sending up their globes of fire. But Nature was having
a celebration of her own, which so far surpassed anything terrestrial that it soon won their
entire attention. A great black cloud that hung darkly in the west was the background for the
electric pyrotechnics. Against this obscurity the lightning played almost every freak imaginable.
At one moment there would be an immense illumination, and the opaque cloud would become vivid
gold. Again, across its blackness a dozen fiery rills of light would burn their way in zigzag
channels, and not infrequently a forked bolt would blaze earthward. Accompanying these vivid
and central effects were constant illuminations of sheet lightning all round the horizon, and
the night promised to be a carnival of thunder-showers throughout the land. The extreme heat
continued, and was rendered far more oppressive by the humidity of the atmosphere.

The awful grandeur of the cloud scenery at last so oppressed Amy that she sought relief in
Maggie's lighted room. As we have already seen, her sensitive organization was peculiarly affected
by an atmosphere highly charged with electricity. She was not re-assured, for Leonard inadvertently
remarked that it would take "a rousing old-fashioned storm to cool and clear the air."

"Why, Amy," exclaimed Maggie, "how pale you are! and your eyes shine as if some of the lightning
had got into them."

"I wish it was morning," said the girl. "Such a sight oppresses me like a great foreboding
of evil;" and, with a restlessness she could not control, she went down to Mrs. Clifford's
room. She found Mr. Clifford fanning the invalid, who was almost faint from the heat. Amy took
his place, and soon had the pleasure of seeing her charge drop off into quiet slumber. As Mr.
Clifford was very weary also, Amy left them to their rest, and went to the sitting-room, where
Webb was reading. Burt had fallen asleep on the lounge in the hall. Leonard's prediction promised
to come true. The thunder muttered nearer and nearer, but it was a sullen, slow, remorseless
approach through the absolute silence and darkness without, and therefore was tenfold more
trying to one nervously apprehensive than a swift, gusty storm would have been in broad day.

Webb looked up and greeted her with a smile. His lamp was shaded, and the room shadowy, so
that he did not note that Amy was troubled and depressed. "Shall I read to you?" he asked.
"I am running over Hawthorne's 'English Note-Books' again."

"Yes," she said, in a low voice; and she sat down with her back to the windows, through which
shone momentarily the glare of the coming tempest. He had not read a page before a long, sullen
peal rolled across the entire arc of the sky. "Webb," faltered Amy, and she rose and took an
irresolute step toward him.

His pre-occupation was instantly gone. Never had he heard sweeter music than that low appeal,
to which the deep echoes in the mountains formed a strange accompaniment. He stepped to her
side, took her hand, and found it cold and trembling. Drawing her within the radiance of the
lamp, he saw how pale she was, and that her eyes were dilated with nervous dread.

"Webb," she began again, "do you--do you think there is danger?"

"No, Amy," he said, gently; "there is no danger for you in God's universe."

"Oh, that frightful glare!" and she buried her face on his shoulder. "Webb," she whispered,
"won't you stay up till the storm is over? And you won't think me weak or silly either, will
you? Indeed, I can't help it. I wish I had a little of your courage and strength."

"I like you best as you are," he said; "and all my strength is yours when you need it. I understand
you, Amy, and well know you cannot help this nervous dread. I saw how these electrical storms
affected you last February, and such experiences are not rare with finely organized natures.
See, I can explain it all with my matter-of-fact philosophy. But, believe me, there is no danger.
Certainly I will stay with you. What would I not do for you?" he could not help adding.

She looked at him affectionately as she said, with a child's unconscious frankness: "I don't
know why it is, but I always feel safe when with you. I often used to wish that I had a brother,
and imagine what he would be to me; but I never dreamed that a brother could be so much to
me as you are.--Oh, Webb!" and she almost clung to him, as the heavy thunder pealed nearer
than before.

Involuntarily he encircled her with his arm, and drew her closer to him in the impulse of protection.
She felt his arm tremble, and wholly misinterpreted the cause. Springing aloof, she clasped
her hands, and looked around almost wildly.

"Oh, Webb," she cried, "there is danger. Even you tremble."

Webb was human, and had nerves also, but all the thunder that ever roared could not affect
them so powerfully as Amy's head bowed upon his shoulder, and the appealing words of her absolute
trust. He mastered himself instantly, however, for he saw that he must be strong and calm in
order to sustain the trembling girl through one of Nature's most awful moods. She was equally
sensitive to the smiling beauty and the wrath of the great mother. The latter phase was much
the same to her as if a loved face had suddenly become black with reckless passion. He took
both her hands in a firm grasp, and said: "Amy, I am not afraid, and you must not be. You can
do much toward self-control. Come," he added, in tones almost authoritative, "sit here by me,
and give me your hand. I shall read to you in a voice as quiet and steady as you ever heard
me use."

She obeyed, and he kept his word. His strong, even grasp reassured her in a way that excited
her wonder, and the nervous paroxysm of fear began to pass away. While she did not comprehend
what he read, his tones and expression had their influence. His voice, however, was soon drowned
by the howling of the tempest as it rushed upon them. He felt her hand tremble again, and saw
her look apprehensively toward the windows.

"Amy," he said, and in smiling confidence he fixed his eyes on hers and held them.

The crisis of the storm was indeed terrific. The house rocked in the furious blasts. The uproar
without was frightful, suggesting that the Evil One was in very truth the "prince of the power
of the air," and that he was abroad with all his legions. Amy trembled violently, but Webb's
hand and eyes held hers. "Courage!" he said, cheerily; "the storm is passing."

A wan, grateful smile glimmered for a moment on her pale face, and then her expression passed
into one of horror. With a cry that was lost in a deafening crash, she sprang into his arms.
Even Webb was almost stunned and blinded for a moment. Then he heard rapid steps. Burt at last
had been aroused from the slumber of youth, and, fortunately for his peace, rushed first into
his mother's room. Webb thought Amy had fainted, and he laid her gently on the lounge. "Don't
leave me," she gasped, faintly.

"Amy," he said, earnestly, "I assure you that all danger is now over. As I told you once before,
the centre of the storm has passed. You know I never deceived you."

Maggie and Burt now came running in, and Webb said, "Amy has had a faint turn. I will get her
a glass of water."

This revived her speedily, but the truth of Webb's words proved more efficacious. The gale
was sweeping the storm from the sky. The swish of the torrents mattered little, for the thunder-peals
died away steadily to the eastward. Amy made a great effort to rally, for she felt ashamed
of her weakness, and feared that the others would not interpret her as charitably as Webb had
done. In a few minutes he smilingly withdrew, and went out on the rear porch with Leonard,
whence they anxiously scanned the barn and out-buildings. These were evidently safe, wherever
the bolt had fallen, and it must have struck near. In half an hour there was a line of stars
along the western horizon, and soon the repose within the old house was as deep as that of
nature without.

Webb only was sleepless. He sat at his open window, and saw the clouds roll away. But he felt
that a cloud deeper and murkier than any that had ever blackened the sky hung over his life.
He knew too well why his arm had trembled when for a moment it encircled Amy. The deepest and
strongest impulse of his soul was to protect her, and her instinctive appeal to him had raised
a tempest in his heart as wild as that which had raged without. He felt that he could not yield
her to another, not even to his brother. Nature itself pointed her to him. It was to him she
turned and clung in her fears. And yet she had not even dreamed of his untold wealth of love,
and probably never would suspect it. He could not reveal it--indeed, it must be the struggle
of his life to hide it--and she, while loving him as a brother, might easily drift into an
engagement and marriage with Burt. Could he be patient, and wear a smiling mask through it
all? That tropical night and its experiences taught him anew that he had a human heart, with
all its passionate cravings. When he came down from his long vigil on the following morning
his brow was as serene as the scene without. Amy gave him a grateful and significant smile,
and he smiled back so naturally that observant Burt, who had been a little uneasy over the
events of the previous night, was wholly relieved of anxiety. They had scarcely seated themselves
at the breakfast-table before Alf came running in, and said that an elm not a hundred yards
from the house had been splintered from the topmost branch to the roots. All except Mrs. Clifford
went out to look at the smitten tree, and they gazed with awe at the deep furrow plowed in
the blackened wood.

"It will live," said Webb, quietly, as he turned away; "it will probably live out its natural
life."

Amy, in her deep sympathy, looked after him curiously. There was something in his tone and
manner which suggested a meaning beyond his words. Not infrequently he had puzzled her of late,
and this added to her interest in him. She understood Burt thoroughly.

Good old Mr. Clifford saw in the shattered tree only reasons for profound thankfulness, and
words of Christian gratitude rose to his lips.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE TWO LOVERS

The July sun speedily drank up the superabundant moisture, and the farm operations went on
with expedition. The corn grew green and strong, and its leaves stretched up to Abram's shoulder
as he ran the cultivator through it for the last time. The moist sultriness of the Fourth finished
the ox-heart cherries. They decayed at once, to Alf's great regret. "That is the trouble with
certain varieties of cherries," Webb remarked. "One shower will often spoil the entire crop
even before it is ripe." But it so happened that there were several trees of native or ungrafted
fruit on the place, and these supplied the children and the birds for many days thereafter.
The robins never ceased gorging themselves. Indeed, they were degenerating into shameless gourmands,
and losing the grace of song, as were also the bobolinks in the meadows.

Already there was a perceptible decline in the morning and evening minstrelsy of all the birds,
and, with the exception of calls and twitterings, they grew more and more silent through the
midday heat. With the white bloom of the chestnut-trees the last trace of spring passed away.
Summer reached its supreme culmination, and days that would not be amiss at the equator were
often followed by nights of breathless sultriness. Early in the month haying and harvest were
over, and the last load that came down the lane to the barn was ornamented with green boughs,
and hailed with acclamations by the farm hands, to whom a generous supper was given, and something
substantial also to take home to their families.

As the necessity for prompt action and severe labor passed, the Cliffords proved that their
rural life was not one of plodding, unredeemed toil. For the next few weeks Nature would give
them a partial respite. She would finish much of the work which they had begun. The corn would
mature, the oats ripen, without further intervention on their part. By slow but sure alchemy
the fierce suns would change the acid and bitter juices in the apples, peaches, plums, and
pears into nectar. Already Alf was revelling in the harvest apples, which, under Maggie's culinary
magic, might tempt an ascetic to surfeit.

While Burt had manfully done his part in the harvest-field, he had not made as long hours as
the others, and now was quite inclined to enjoy to the utmost a season of comparative leisure.
He was much with Amy, and she took pleasure in his society, for, as she characterized his manner
in her thoughts, he had grown very sensible. He had accepted the situation, and he gave himself
not a little credit for his philosophical patience. He regarded himself as committed to a deep
and politic plan, in which, however, there was no unworthy guile. He would make himself essential
to Amy's happiness. He would be so quietly and naturally devoted to her that she would gradually
come to look forward to a closer union as a matter of course. He also made it clear to her
that she had no rivals in his thoughts, or even admiration, and, as far as courtesy permitted,
withdrew from the society of a few favorites who once had welcomed him gladly and often. He
had even pretended indifference to the advent of a dark-eyed beauty to the neighborhood, and
had made no efforts to form her acquaintance. This stranger from the city was so charming,
however, that he had felt more than once that he was giving no slight proof of constancy. His
fleet horse Thunder was his great ally, and in the long twilight evenings, he, with Amy, explored
the country roads far and near. When the early mornings were not too warm they rowed upon the
river, or went up the Moodna Creek for water-lilies, which at that hour floated upon the surface
with their white petals all expanded--beautiful emblems of natures essentially good. From mud
and slime they developed purity and fragrance. He was also teaching Amy to be an expert horsewoman,
and they promised themselves many a long ride when autumn coolness should make such exercise
more agreeable.

Burt was a little surprised at his tranquil enjoyment of all this companionship, but nevertheless
prided himself upon it. He was not so mercurial and impetuous as the others had believed him
to be, but was capable of a steady and undemonstrative devotion. Amy was worth winning at any
cost, and he proposed to lay such a patient siege that she could not fail to become his. Indeed,
with a disposition toward a little retaliation, he designed to carry his patience so far as
to wait until he had seen more than once an expression in her eyes that invited warmer words
and manner. But he had to admit that time was passing, and that no such expression appeared.
This piqued him a little, and he felt that he was not appreciated. The impression grew upon
him that she was very young--unaccountably young for one of her years. She enjoyed his bright
talk and merry ways with much the same spirit that Alf's boyish exuberance called forth. She
had the natural love of all young, healthful natures for pleasure and change, and she unconsciously
acted toward him as if he were a kind, jolly brother who was doing much to give the spice of
variety to her life. At the same time her unawakened heart was disposed to take his view of
the future. Why should she not marry him, after her girlhood had passed? All the family wished
and expected it, and surely she liked him exceedingly. But it would be time enough for such
thoughts years hence. He had the leisure and self-control for good-comradeship, and without
questioning she enjoyed it. Her life was almost as free from care as that of the young birds
that had begun their existence in June.

Only Webb perplexed and troubled her a little. At this season, when even Leonard indulged in
not a little leisure and rest, he was busy and preoccupied. She could not say that he avoided
her, and yet it seemed to happen that they were not much together. "I fear I'm too young and
girlish to be a companion for him," she sighed. "His manner is just as kind and gentle, but
he treats me as if I were his very little sister. I don't seem to have the power to interest
him that I once had. I wish I knew enough to talk to him as he would like;" and she stealthily
tried to read some of the scientific books that she saw him poring over.

He, poor fellow, was engaged in the most difficult task ever given to man--the ruling of his
own spirit. He saw her sisterly solicitude and goodwill, but could not respond in a manner
as natural as her own. This was beyond human capability. His best resource was the comparative
solitude of constant occupation. He was growing doubtful, however, as to the result of his
struggle, while Amy was daily becoming more lovely in his eyes. Her English life had not destroyed
the native talent of an American girl to make herself attractive. She knew instinctively how
to dress, how to enhance the charms of which nature had not been chary, and Webb's philosophy
and science were no defence against her winsomeness. In her changeful eyes lurked spells too
mighty for him. Men of his caste rarely succumb to a learned and aggressive woman. They require
intelligence, but it is a feminine intelligence, which supplements their own, and is not akin
to it. Webb saw in Amy all that his heart craved, and he believed that he also saw her fulfilling
Burt's hopes. She seemed to be gradually learning that the light-hearted brother might bring
into her life all the sunshine and happiness she could desire. Webb depreciated himself, and
believed that he was too grave and dull to win in any event more than the affection which she
would naturally feel for an elder brother, and this she already bestowed upon him frankly and
unstintedly. Burt took the same view, and was usually complacency itself, although a week seemed
a long time to him, and he sometimes felt that he ought to be making more progress. But he
had no misgivings. He would be faithful for years, and Amy could not fail to reward such constancy.

CHAPTER XXXIX

BURT'S ADVENTURE

Not only had the little rustic cottages which had been placed on poles here and there about
the Clifford dwelling, and the empty tomato-cans which Alf, at Dr. Marvin's suggestion, had
fastened in the trees, been occupied by wrens and bluebirds, but larger homes had been taken
for the summer by migrants from the city. Among these was a Mr. Hargrove, a wealthy gentleman,
who had rented a pretty villa on the banks of the Hudson, a mile or two away. Burt, with all
his proposed lifelong constancy, had speedily discovered that Mr. Hargrove had a very pretty
daughter. Of course, he was quite indifferent to the fact, but he could no more meet a girl
like Gertrude Hargrove and be unobservant than could Amy pass a new and rare wildflower with
unregarding eyes. Miss Hargrove was not a wildflower, however. She was a product of city life,
and was perfectly aware of her unusual and exotic beauty. Admiring eyes had followed her even
from childhood, and no one better than she knew her power. Her head had been quite turned by
flattery, but there was a saving clause in her nature--her heart. She was a belle, but not
a cold-blooded coquette. Admiration was like sunshine--a matter of course. She had always been
accustomed to it, as she had been to wealth, and neither had spoiled her. Beneath all that
was artificial, all that fashion prescribed and society had taught, was the essential womanhood
which alone can win and retain a true man's homage. For reasons just the reverse of those which
explained Amy's indisposition to sentiment, she also had been kept fancy-free. Seclusion and
the companionship of her father, who had been an invalid in his later years, had kept the former
a child in many respects, at a time when Miss Hargrove had her train of admirers. Miss Gertrude
enjoyed the train very much, but showed no disposition to permit any one of its constituents
to monopolize her. Indeed, their very numbers had been her safety. Her attention had been divided
and distracted by a score of aspirants, and while in her girlish eyes some found more favor
than others, she was inclined to laughing criticism of them all. They amused her immensely,
and she puzzled them. Her almost velvety black eyes, and the rich, varying tints of her clear
brunette complexion, suggested a nature that was not cold and unresponsive, yet many who would
gladly have won the heiress for her own sake found her as elusive as only a woman of perfect
tact and self-possession can be. She had no vulgar ambition to count her victims who had committed
themselves in words. With her keen intuition and abundant experience she recognized the first
glance that was warmer than mere friendliness, and this was all the committal she wished for.
She loved the admiration of men, but was too good-hearted a girl to wish to make them cynics
in regard to women. She also had the sense to know that it is a miserable triumph to lure a
man to the declaration of a supreme regard, and then in one moment change it into contempt.
While, therefore, she had refused many an offer, no one had been humiliated, no one had been
made to feel that he had been unworthily trifled with. Thus she retained the respect and goodwill
of those to whom she might easily have become the embodiment of all that was false and heartless.
She had welcomed the comparative seclusion of the villa on the Hudson, for, although not yet
twenty, she was growing rather weary of society and its exactions. Its pleasures had been tasted
too often, its burdens were beginning to be felt. She was a good horsewoman, and was learning,
under the instruction of a younger brother, to row as easily and gracefully on the river as
she danced in the ballroom, and she found the former recreation more satisfactory, from its
very novelty.

Burt was well aware of these outdoor accomplishments. Any one inclined to rural pleasures won
his attention at once; and Miss Hargrove, as she occasionally trotted smartly by him, or skimmed
near on the waters of the Hudson, was a figure sure to win from his eyes more than a careless
glance. Thus far, as has been intimated, he had kept aloof, but he had observed her critically,
and he found little to disapprove. She also was observing him, and was quite as well endowed
as he with the power of forming a correct judgment. Men of almost every description had sought
her smiles, but he did not suffer by comparison. His tall, lithe figure was instinct with manly
grace. There was a fascinating trace of reckless boldness in his blue eyes. He rode like a
centaur, and at will made his light boat, in which Amy was usually seated, cut through the
water with spray flying from its prow. In Miss Hargrove's present mood for rural life she wished
for his acquaintance, and was a little piqued that he had not sought hers, since her father
had opened the way.

Mr. Hargrove, soon after his arrival in the neighborhood, had had business transactions with
the Cliffords, and had learned enough about them to awaken a desire for social relations, and
he had courteously expressed his wishes. Maggie and Amy had fully intended compliance, but
the harvest had come, time had passed, and the initial call had not been made. Leonard was
averse to such formalities, and, for reasons already explained, Burt and Webb were in no mood
for them. They would not have failed in neighborliness much longer, however, and a call was
proposed for the first comparatively cool day. A little incident now occurred which quite broke
the ice, and also somewhat disturbed Burt's serenity. Amy was not feeling very well, and he
had gone out alone for a ride on his superb black horse Thunder. In a shady road some miles
away, where the willows interlaced their branches overhead in a long, Gothic-like arch, he
saw Miss Hargrove, mounted also, coming slowly toward him. He never forgot the picture she
made under the rustic archway. Her fine horse was pacing along with a stately tread, his neck
curved under the restraining bit, while she was evidently amusing herself by talking, for the
want of a better companion, to an immense Newfoundland dog that was trotting at her side, and
looking up to her in intelligent appreciation. Thus, in her preoccupation, Burt was permitted
to draw comparatively near, but as soon as she observed him it was evidently her intention
to pass rapidly. As she gave her horse the rein and he leaped forward, she clutched his mane,
and by a word brought him to a standstill. Burt saw the trouble at once, for the girth of her
saddle had broken, and hung loosely down. Only by prompt action and good horsemanship had she
kept her seat. Now she was quite helpless, for an attempt to dismount would cause the heavy
saddle to turn, with unknown and awkward results. She had recognized Burt, and knew that he
was a gentleman; therefore she patted her horse and quieted him, while the young man came promptly
to her assistance. He, secretly exulting over the promise of an adventure, said, suavely, as
he lifted his hat:

"Miss Hargrove, will you permit me to aid you?"

"Certainly," she replied, smiling so pleasantly that the words did not seem ungracious; "I
have no other resource."

He bowed, leaped lightly to the ground, and fastened his horse by the roadside; then came forward
without the least embarrassment. "Your saddle-girth has broken," he said. "I fear you must
dismount. Shall I lift you off? You maintained your seat admirably, but a very slight movement
on your part will cause the saddle to turn."

"I know that," she replied, laughing. "Helplessness is always awkward. I am only anxious to
reach ground in safety;" and she dropped the reins, and held out her hands.

"Your horse is too high for you to dismount in that way," he said, quietly, "and the saddle
might fall after you and hurt you. Pardon me;" and he encircled her with his right arm, and
lifted her gently off.

She blushed like the western sky, but he was so grave and apparently solicitous, and his words
had made his course seem so essential, that she could not take offence. Indeed, he was now
giving his whole attention to the broken girth, and she could only await the result of his
examination.

"I think I can mend it with a strap from my bridle so that it will hold until you reach home,"
he said; "but I am sorry to say that I cannot make it very secure. Will you hold your horse
a moment?"

"I am indebted to Mr. Clifford, I think," she began, hesitatingly.

"I am Mr. Clifford, and, believe me, I am wholly at your service. If you had not been so good
a horsewoman you might have met with a very serious accident."

"More thanks are due to you, I imagine," she replied; "though I suppose I could have got off
in some way."

"There would have been no trouble in your getting off," he said, with one of his frank, contagious
smiles; "but then your horse might have run away, or you would have had to lead him some distance,
at least. Perhaps it was well that the girth gave way when it did, for it would have broken
in a few moments more, in any event. Therefore I hope you will tolerate one not wholly unknown
to you, and permit me to be of service."

"Indeed, I have only cause for thanks. I have interfered with your ride, and am putting you
to trouble."

"I was only riding for pleasure, and as yet you have had all the trouble."

She did not look excessively annoyed, and in truth was enjoying the adventure quite as much
as he was, but she only said: "You have the finest horse there I ever saw. How I should like
to ride him!"

"I fear he would be ungallant. He has never been ridden by a lady."

"I should not be afraid so long as the saddle remained firm. What do you call him?"

"Thunder." At the sound of his name the beautiful animal arched his neck and whinnied. "There,
be quiet, old fellow, and speak when you are spoken to," Burt said. "He is comparatively gentle
with me, but uncontrollable by others. I have now done my best, Miss Hargrove, and I think
you may mount in safety, if you are willing to walk your horse quietly home. But I truly think
I ought to accompany you, and I will do so gladly, with your permission."

"But it seems asking a great deal of-"

"Of a stranger? I wish I knew how to bring about a formal introduction. I have met your father.
Will you not in the emergency defer the introduction until we arrive at your home?"

"I think we may as well dispense with it altogether," she said, laughing. "It would be too
hollow a formality after the hour we must spend together, since you think so slow a pace is
essential to safety. Events, not we, are to blame for all failures in etiquette."

"I was coming to call upon you this very week with the ladies of our house," he began.

"Indeed!" she said, lifting her eyebrows.

"I assure you of the truth of what I say," he continued, earnestly, turning his handsome eyes
to hers. Then throwing his head back a little proudly, he added, "Miss Hargrove, you must know
that we are farmers, and midsummer brings the harvest and unwonted labors."

With a slight, piquant imitation of his manner, she said: "My father, you must know, Mr. Clifford,
is a merchant Is not that an equally respectable calling?"

"Some people regard it as far more so."

"Some people are very silly. There is no higher rank than that of a gentleman, Mr. Clifford."

He took off his hat, and said, laughingly: "I hope it is not presumption to imagine a slight
personal bearing in your remark. At least, let me prove that I have some claim to the title
by seeing you safely home. Will you mount? Put your foot in my hand, and bear your whole weight
upon it, and none upon the saddle."

"You don't know how heavy I am."

"No, but I know I can lift you. Try."

Without the least effort she found herself in the saddle. "How strong you are!" she said.

"Yes," he replied, laughing; "I developed my muscle, if not my brains, at college."

In a moment he vaulted lightly upon his horse, that reared proudly, but, at a word from his
master, arched his neck and paced as quietly as Miss Hargrove's better-trained animal. Burt's
laugh would have thawed Mrs. Grundy's very self. He was so vital with youth and vigor, and
his flow of spirits so irresistible, that Miss Hargrove found her own nerves tingling with
pleasure. The episode was novel, unexpected, and promised so much for the future, that in her
delightful excitement she cast conventionality to the winds, and yielded to his sportive mood.
They had not gone a mile together before one would have thought they had been acquainted for
years. Burt's frank face was like the open page of a book, and the experienced society girl
saw nothing in it but abounding good-nature, and an enjoyment as genuine as her own. She was
on the alert for traces of provincialism and rusticity, but was agreeably disappointed at their
absence. He certainly was unmarked, and, to her taste, unmarred, by the artificial mode of
the day, but there was nothing under-bred in his manner or language. He rather fulfilled her
ideal of the light-hearted student who had brought away the air of the university without being
oppressed by its learning. She saw, with a curious little blending of pique and pleasure, that
he was not in the least afraid of her, and that, while claiming to be simply a farmer, he unconsciously
asserted by every word and glance that he was her equal. She had the penetration to recognize
from the start that she could not patronize him in the slightest degree, that he was as high-spirited
as he was frank and easy in manner, and she could well imagine that his mirthful eyes would
flash with anger on slight provocation. She had never met just such a type before, and every
moment found her more and more interested and amused.

It must be admitted that his sensations kept pace with hers. Many had found Miss Hargrove's
eyes singularly effective under ordinary circumstances, but now her mood gave them an unwonted
lustre and power. Her color was high, her talk animated and piquant. Even an enemy, had she
had one, would have been forced to admit that she was dazzlingly beautiful, and inflammable
Burt could not be indifferent to her charms. He knew that he was not, but complacently assured
himself that he was a good judge in such matters.

Mr. Hargrove met them at the door, and his daughter laughingly told him of her mishap. She
evidently reposed in him the utmost confidence. He justified it by meeting her in like spirit
with her own, and he interpreted her unspoken wishes by so cordially pressing Burt to remain
to dinner that he was almost constrained to yield. "You will be too late for your own evening
meal," he said, "and your kindness to my daughter would be ill-requited, and our reputation
for hospitality would suffer, should we let you depart without taking salt with us. After all,
Mr. Clifford, we are neighbors. Why should there be any formality?"

Burt was the last one to have any scruples on such grounds, and he resolved to have his "lark"
out, as he mentally characterized it. Mr. Hargrove had been something of a sportsman in his
earlier days, and the young fellow's talk was as interesting to him as it had been to Miss
Gertrude. Fred, her younger brother, was quite captivated, and elegant Mrs. Hargrove, like
her daughter, watched in vain for mannerisms to criticise in the breezy youth. The evening
was half gone before Burt galloped homeward, smiling broadly to himself at the adventure.

His absence had caused little remark in the family. It had been taken for granted that he was
at Dr. Marvin's or the parsonage, for the young fellow was a great favorite with their pastor.
When he entered the sitting-room, however, there was a suppressed excitement in his manner
which suggested an unusual experience. He was not slow in relating all that had happened, for
the thought had occurred to him that it might be good policy to awaken a little jealousy in
Amy. In this effort he was obliged to admit to himself that he failed signally. Even Webb's
searching eyes could not detect a trace of chagrin. She only seemed very much amused, and was
laughingly profuse in her congratulations to Burt. Moreover, she was genuinely interested in
Miss Hargrove, and eager to make her acquaintance. "If she is as nice as you say, Burt," she
concluded, "she would make a pleasant addition to our little excursions and pleasure parties.
Perhaps she's old and bright enough to talk to Webb, and draw him out of his learned preoccupation,"
she added, with a shy glance toward the one who was growing too remote from her daily life.

Even his bronzed face flushed, but he said, with a laugh: "She is evidently much too bright
for me, and would soon regard me as insufferably stupid. I have never found much favor with
city dames, or with dames of any description, for that matter."

"So much the worse for the dames, then," she replied, with a piquant nod at him.

"Little sisters are apt to be partial judges--at least, one is," he said, smilingly, as he
left the room. He walked out in the moonlight, thinking: "There was not a trace of jealousy
in her face. Well, why should there be? Burt's perfect frankness was enough to prevent anything
of the kind. If there had been cause for jealousy, he would have been reticent. Besides, Amy
is too high-toned to yield readily to this vice, and Burt can never be such an idiot as to
endanger his prospects."

A scheme, however, was maturing in Burt's busy brain that night, which he thought would be
a master-stroke of policy. He was quite aware of the good impression that he had made on Miss
Hargrove, and he determined that Amy's wishes should be carried out in a sufficient degree
at least to prove to her that a city belle would not be wholly indifferent to his attentions.
"I'll teach the coy little beauty that others are not so blind as she is, and I imagine that,
with Miss Hargrove's aid, I can disturb her serenity a little before many weeks pass."

CHAPTER XL

MISS HARGROVE

But a few days elapsed before Mr. Clifford, with Burt, Maggie, and Amy, made the call which
would naturally inaugurate an exchange of social visits. Mr. Hargrove was especially interested
in the old gentleman, and they were at once deep in rural affairs. Maggie was a little reserved
at first with Mrs. Hargrove, but the latter, with all her stateliness, was a zealous housekeeper,
and so the two ladies were soon en rapport.

The young people adjourned to the piazza, and their merry laughter and animated talk proved
that if there had been any constraint it was vanishing rapidly. Amy was naturally a little
shy at first, but Miss Hargrove had the tact to put her guests immediately at ease. She proposed
to have a good time during the remainder of the summer, and saw in Burt a means to that end,
while she instinctively felt that she must propitiate Amy in order to accomplish her purpose.
Therefore she was disposed to pay a little court to her on general principles. She had learned
that the young girl was a ward of Mr. Clifford's. What Burt was to Amy she did not know, but
was sure she could soon find out, and his manner had led to the belief that he was not a committed
and acknowledged lover. She made no discoveries, however, for he was not one to display a real
preference in public, and indeed, in accordance with his scheme, she received his most marked
attentions. Amy also both baffled and interested her. She could not immediately accept of this
genuine child of nature, whose very simplicity was puzzling. It might be the perfection of
well-bred reserve, such complete art as to appear artless. Miss Hargrove had been in society
too long to take anything impulsively on trust. Still, she was charmed with the young girl,
and Amy was also genuinely pleased with her new acquaintance. Before they parted a horseback
ride was arranged, at Burt's suggestion, for the next afternoon. This was followed by visits
that soon lost all formality, boating on the river, other rides, drives, and excursions to
points of interest throughout the region. Webb was occasionally led to participate in these,
but he usually had some excuse for remaining at home. He, also, was a new type to Miss Hargrove,
"indigenous to the soil," she smilingly said to herself, "and a fine growth too. With his grave
face and ways he makes a splendid contrast to his brother." She found him too reticent for
good-fellowship, and he gave her the impression also that he knew too much about that which
was remote from her life and interests. At the same time, with her riper experience, she speedily
divined his secret, to which Amy was blind. "He could almost say his prayers to Amy," she thought,
as she returned after an evening spent at the Cliffords', "and she doesn't know it."

With all his frankness, Burt's relations to Amy still baffled her. She sometimes thought she
saw his eyes following the young girl with lover-like fondness, and she also thought that he
was a little more pronounced in his attentions to her in Amy's absence. Acquaintanceship ripened
into intimacy as plans matured under the waning suns of July, and the girls often spent the
night together. Amy was soon beguiled into giving her brief, simple history, omitting, of course,
all reference to Bart's passionate declaration and his subsequent expectations. As far as she
herself was concerned, she had no experiences of this character to relate, and her nature was
much too fine to gossip about Burt. Miss Hargrove soon accepted Amy's perfect simplicity as
a charming fact, and while the young girl had all the refinement and intelligence of her city
friend, the absence of certain phases of experience made her companionship all the more fascinating
and refreshing. It was seen that she had grown thus far in secluded and sheltered nooks, and
the ignorance that resulted was like morning dew upon a flower. Of one thing her friend thought
herself assured--Burt had never touched Amy's heart, and she was as unconscious of herself
as of Webb's well-hidden devotion. The Clifford family interested Miss Gertrude exceedingly,
and her innate goodness of heart was proved by the fact that she soon became a favorite with
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford. She never came to the house without bringing flowers to the latter--not
only beautiful exotics from the florists, but wreaths of clematis, bunches of meadow-rue from
her rambles, and water-lilies and cardinal-flowers from boating excursions up the Moodna Creek--and
the secluded invalid enjoyed her brilliant beauty and piquant ways as if she had been a rare
flower herself.

Burt had entered on his scheme with the deepest interest and with confident expectations. As
time passed, however, he found that he could not pique Amy in the slightest degree; that she
rather regarded his interest in Miss Hargrove as the most natural thing in the world, because
she was so interesting. Therefore he at last just let himself drift, and was content with the
fact that the summer was passing delightfully. That Miss Hargrove's dark eyes sometimes quickened
his pulse strangely did not trouble him; it had often been quickened before. When they were
alone, and she sang to him in her rich contralto, and he, at her request, added his musical
tenor, it seemed perfectly natural that he should bend over her toward the notes in a way that
was not the result of near-sightedness. Burt was amenable to other attractions than that of
gravitation.

Webb was the only one not blind to the drift of events. While he forbore by word or sign to
interfere, he felt that new elements were entering into the problem of the future. He drove
the farm and garden work along with a tireless energy against which even Leonard remonstrated.
But Webb knew that his most wholesome antidote for suspense and trouble was work, and good
for all would come of his remedy. He toiled long hours in the oat harvest. He sowed seed which
promised a thousand bushels of turnips. Land foul with weeds, or only half subdued, he sowed
with that best of scavenger crops, buckwheat, which was to be plowed under as soon as in blossom.
The vegetable and fruit gardens gave him much occupation, also, and the table fairly groaned
under the over-abundant supply, while Abram was almost daily despatched to the landing or to
neighboring markets with loads of various produce. The rose garden, however, seemed to afford
Webb his chief recreation and a place of rest, and the roses in Amy's belt were the wonder
and envy of all who saw them. His mother sometimes looked at him curiously, as he still brought
to her the finest specimens, and one day she said: "Webb, I never knew even you to be so tireless
before. You are growing very thin, and you are certainly going beyond your strength, and--forgive
me--you seem restlessly active. Have you any trouble in which mother can help you?"

"You always help me, mother," he said, gently; "but I have no trouble that requires your or
any one's attention. I like to be busy, and there is much to do. I am getting the work well
along, so that I can take a trip in August, and not leave too much for Leonard to look after."

August came, and with it the promise of drought, but he and his elder brother had provided
against it. The young trees had been well mulched while the ground was moist, and deep, thorough
cultivation rendered the crops safe unless the rainless period should be of long duration.

Already in the rustling foliage there were whisperings of autumn. The nights grew longer, and
were filled with the sounds of insect life. The robins disappeared from about the house, and
were haunting distant groves, becoming as wild as they had formerly been domestic. The season
of bird song was over for the year. The orioles whistled in a languid and desultory way occasionally,
and the smaller warblers sometimes gave utterance to defective strains, but the leaders of
the feathered chorus, the thrushes, were silent. The flower-beds flamed with geraniums and
salvias, and were gay with gladioli, while Amy and Mrs. Clifford exulted in the extent and
variety of their finely quilled and rose-like asters and dahlias. The foliage of the trees
had gained its darkest hues, and the days passed, one so like another that nature seemed to
be taking a summer siesta.

CHAPTER XLI

A FIRE IN THE MOUNTAINS

A day in August can be as depressing as a typical one in May is inspiring, or in June entrancing.
As the season advanced Nature appeared to be growing languid and faint. There was neither cloud
by day nor dew at night. The sun burned rather than vivified the earth, and the grass and herbage
withered and shrivelled before its unobstructed rays. The foliage along the roadsides grew
dun-colored from the dust, and those who rode or drove on thoroughfares were stifled by the
irritating clouds that rose on the slightest provocation. Pleasure could be found only on the
unfrequented lanes that led to the mountains or ran along their bases. Even there trees that
drew their sustenance from soil spread thinly on the rocks were seen to be dying, their leaves
not flushing with autumnal tints, but hanging limp and bleached as if they had exhaled their
vital juices. The moss beneath them, that had been softer to the tread than a Persian rug,
crumbled into powder under the foot. Alf went to gather huckleberries, but, except in moist
and swampy places, found them shrivelled on the bushes. Even the corn leaves began to roll
on the uplands, and Leonard shook his head despondingly. Webb's anxieties, however, were of
a far deeper character, and he was philosophical enough to average the year's income. If the
cows did come home hungry from their pasture, there was abundance of hay and green-corn fodder
to carry them through until the skies should become more propitious. Besides, there was an
unfailing spring upon the place, and from this a large cask on wheels was often filled, and
was then drawn by one of the quiet farm-horses to the best of the flower beds, the young trees,
and to such products of the garden as would repay for the expenditure of time and labor. The
ground was never sprinkled so that the morning sun of the following day would drink up the
moisture, but so deluged that the watering would answer for several days. It was well known
that partial watering does only harm. Nature can be greatly assisted at such times, but it
must be in accordance with her laws. The grapevine is a plant that can endure an unusual degree
of drought, and the fruit will be all the earlier and sweeter for it. An excellent fertilizer
for the grape is suds from the laundry, and by filling a wide, shallow basin, hollowed out
from the earth around the stems, with this alkaline infusion, the vines were kept in the best
condition. The clusters of the earlier varieties were already beginning to color, and the season
insured the perfect ripening of those fine old kinds, the Isabella and Catawba, that too often
are frost-bitten before they become fit for the table.

Thus it would appear that Nature has compensations for her worst moods--greater compensations
than are thought of by many. Drought causes the roots of plants and trees to strike deep, and
so extends the range of their feeding-ground, and anchors vegetation of all kinds more firmly
in the soil.

Nevertheless, a long dry period is always depressing. The bright green fades out of the landscape,
the lawns and grass-plots become brown and sear, the air loses its sweet, refreshing vitality,
and is often so charged with smoke from forest-fires, and impalpable dust, that respiration
is not agreeable. Apart from considerations of profit and loss, the sympathy of the Clifford
household was too deep with Nature to permit the indifference of those whose garden is the
market stall and the florist's greenhouse, and to whom vistas in hotel parlors and piazzas
are the most attractive.

"It seems to me," Leonard remarked at the dinner-table one day, "that droughts are steadily
growing more serious and frequent."

"They are," replied his father. "While I remember a few in early life that were more prolonged
than any we have had of late years, they must have resulted from exceptional causes, for we
usually had an abundance of rain, and did not suffer as we do now from violent alternations
of weather. There was one year when there was scarcely a drop of rain throughout the summer.
Potatoes planted in the late spring were found in the autumn dry and unsprouted. But such seasons
were exceedingly rare, and now droughts are the rule."

"And the people are chiefly to blame for them," said Webb. "We are suffering from the law of
heredity. Our forefathers were compelled to fell the trees to make room for the plow, and now
one of the strongest impulses of the average American is to cut down a tree. Our forests, on
which a moist climate so largely depends, are treated as if they encumbered the ground. The
smoke that we are breathing proves that fires are ravaging to the north and west of us. They
should be permitted no more than a fire in the heart of a city. The future of the country depends
upon the people becoming sane on this subject. If we will send to the Legislature pot-house
politicans who are chiefly interested in keeping up a supply of liquor instead of water, they
should be provided with a little primer giving the condition of lands denuded of their forests.
There is scarcely anything in their shifty ways, their blind zeal for what the 'deestrict'
wants to-day, regardless of coming days, that so irritates me as their stupidity on this subject.
A man who votes against the protection of our forests is not fit for the office of road-master.
After all, the people are to blame, and their children will pay dear for their ignorance and
the spirit which finds expression in the saying, 'After me the deluge'; and there will be flood
and drought until every foot of land not adapted to cultivation and pasturage is again covered
with trees. Indeed, a great deal of good land should be given up to forests, for then what
was cultivated would produce far more than could be obtained from a treeless and therefore
rainless country."

"Bravo, Webb!" cried Burt; "we must send you to the Legislature."

"How is the evil to be prevented?" Leonard asked.

"Primarily by instruction and the formation of public opinion. The influence of trees on the
climate should be taught in all our schools as thoroughly as the multiplication-table. The
national and state governments would then be compelled to look beyond the next election, and
to appoint foresters who would have the same power to call out the people to extinguish a forest
fire that the sheriff has to collect his posse to put down mob violence. In the long-run fire
departments in our forest tracts would be more useful than the same in cities, for, after all,
cities depend upon the country and its productiveness. The owners of woodland should be taught
the folly of cutting everything before them, and of leaving the refuse brush to become like
tinder. The smaller growth should be left to mature, and the brush piled and burned in a way
that would not involve the destruction of every sprout and sapling over wide areas. As it is,
we are at the mercy of every careless boy, and such vagrants as Lumley used to be before Amy
woke him up. It is said--and with truth at times, I fear--that the shiftless mountaineers occasionally
start the fires, for a fire means brief high-priced labor for them, and afterward an abundance
of whiskey."

Events furnished a practical commentary on Webb's words. Miss Hargrove had come over to spend
the night with Amy, and to try some fine old English glees that she had obtained from her city
home. They had just adjourned from the supper-table to the piazza when Lumley appeared, hat
in hand. He spoke to Leonard, but looked at Amy with a kind of wondering admiration, as if
he could not believe that the girl, who looked so fair and delicate in her evening dress, so
remote from him and his surroundings, could ever have given him her hand, and spoken as if
their humanity had anything in common.

The Cliffords were informed that a fire had broken out on a tract adjoining their own. "City
chaps was up there gunning out o' season," Lumley explained, "and wads from their guns must
'a started it."

As there was much wood ranked on the Clifford tract, the matter was serious. Abram and other
farm-hands were summoned, and the brothers acted as did the minute-men in the Revolution when
the enemy appeared in their vicinity. The young men excused themselves, and bustle and confusion
followed. Burt, with a flannel blouse belted tightly around his waist, soon dashed up to the
front piazza on his horse, and, flourishing a rake, said, laughingly, "I don't look much like
a knight sallying forth to battle-do I?"

"You look as if you could be one if the occasion arose," Miss Hargrove replied.

During the half-jesting badinage that followed Amy stole away. Behind the house Webb was preparing
to mount, when a light hand fell on his shoulder. "You will be careful?" said Amy, appealingly.
"You don't seem to spare yourself in anything. I dread to have you go up into those darkening
mountains."

"Why, Amy," he replied, laughing, "one would think I was going to fight Indians, and you feared
for my scalp."

"I am not so young and blind but that I can see that you are quietly half reckless with yourself,"
she replied; and her tone indicated that she was a little hurt.

"I pledge you my word that I will not be reckless tonight; and, after all, this is but disagreeable,
humdrum work that we often have to do. Don't worry, little sister. Burt will be there to watch
over me, you know," he added. By the way, where is he? It's time we were off."

"Oh, he's talking romantic nonsense to Miss Hargrove. He won't hurt himself. I wish I was as
sure of you, and I wish I had more influence over you. I'm not such a very little sister, even
if I don't know enough to talk to you as you would like;" and she left him abruptly.

He mastered a powerful impulse to spring from his horse and call her back. A moment's thought
taught him, however, that he could not trust himself then to say a word, and he rode rapidly away.

"I must be misunderstood," he muttered. "That is the best chance for us both, unless--" But
be hesitated to put into words the half-formed hope that Miss Hargrove's appearance in the
little drama of their lives might change its final scenes. "She's jealous of her friend, at
last," he concluded, and this conviction gave him little comfort. Burt soon overtook him, and
their ride was comparatively silent, for each was busy with his own thoughts. Lumley was directed
to join them at the fire, and then was forgotten by all except Amy, who, by a gentle urgency,
induced him to go to the kitchen and get a good supper. Before he departed she slipped a banknote
into his hand with which to buy a dress for the baby. Lumley had to pass more than one groggery
on his way to the mountains, but the money was as safe in his pocket as it would have been
in Amy's.

"I swow! I could say my prayers to her!" he soliloquized, as he hastened through the gathering
darkness with his long, swinging stride. "I didn't know there was sich gells. She's never lectured
me once, but she jest smiles and looks a feller into bein' a man."

Miss Hargrove had noted Amy's influence over the mountaineer, and she asked for an explanation.
Amy, in a very brief, modest way, told of her visits to the wretched cabin, and said, in conclusion:
"I feel sorry for poor Lumley. The fact that he is trying to do better, with so much against
him, proves what he might have been. That's one of the things that trouble me most, as I begin
to think and see a little of life; so many people have no chance worth speaking of."

"The thing that ought to trouble me most is, I suppose, that those who have a chance do so
little for such people. Amy," she added, sadly, after a moment's thought, "I've had many triumphs
over men, but none like yours; and I feel to-night as if I could give them all to see a man
look at me as that poor fellow looked at you. It was the grateful homage of a human soul to
whom you had given something that in a dim way was felt to be priceless. The best that I can
remember in my pleasure-loving life is that I have not permitted myself selfishly and recklessly
to destroy manhood, but I fear no one is the better for having known me."

"You do yourself injustice," said Amy, warmly. "I'm the better and happier for having known
you. Papa had a morbid horror of fashionable society, and this accounts for my being so unsophisticated.
With all your experience of such society, I have perfect faith in you, and could trust you
implicitly."

"Have you truly faith in me?" (and Amy thought she had never seen such depth and power in human
eyes as in those of Miss Hargrove, who encircled the young girl with her arm, and looked as
if seeking to detect the faintest doubt).

"Yes," said Amy, with quiet emphasis.

Miss Hargrove drew a long breath, and then said: "That little word may do me more good than
all the sermons I ever heard. Many would try to be different if others had more faith in them.
I think that is the secret of your power over the rough man that has just gone. You recognized
the good that was in him, and made him conscious of it. Well, I must try to deserve your trust."
Then she stepped out on the dusky piazza, and sighed, as she thought: "It may cost me dear.
She seemed troubled at my words to Burt, and stole away as if she were the awkward third person.
I may have misjudged her, and she cares for him after all."

Amy went to the piano, and played softly until summoned without by an excited exclamation from
her friend. A line of fire was creeping toward them around a lofty highland, and it grew each
moment more and more distinct. "Oh, I know from its position that it's drawing near our tract,"
cried Amy. "If it is so bright to us at this distance, it must be almost terrible to those
near by. I suppose they are all up there just in front of it, and Burt is so reckless." She
was about to say Webb, but, because of some unrecognized impulse, she did not. The utterance
of Burt's name, however, was not lost on Miss Hargrove.

For a long time the girls watched the scene with awe, and each, in imagination, saw an athletic
figure begrimed with smoke, and sending out grotesque shadows into the obscurity, as the destroying
element was met and fought in ways unknown to them, which, they felt sure, involved danger.
Miss Hargrove feared that they both had the same form in mind. She was not a girl to remain
long unconscious of her heart's inclinations, and she knew that Burt Clifford had quickened
her pulses as no man had ever done before. This very fact made her less judicial, less keen,
in her insight. If he was so attractive to her, could Amy be indifferent to him after months
of companionship? She had thought that she understood Amy thoroughly, but was beginning to
lose faith in her impression. While in some respects Amy was still a child, there were quiet
depths in her nature of which the young girl herself was but half conscious. She often lapsed
into long reveries. Webb's course troubled her. Never had he been more fraternal in his manner,
but apparently she was losing her power to interest him, to lure him away from the material
side of life. "I can't keep pace with him," she sighed; "and now that he has learned all about
my little range of thoughts and knowledge, he finds that I can be scarcely more to him than
Johnnie, whom he pets in much the same spirit that he does me, and then goes to his work or
books and forgets us both. He could help me so much, if he only thought it worth his while!
I'm sure I'm not contented to be ignorant, and many of the things that he knows so much about
interest me most."

Thus each girl was busy with her thoughts, as they sat in the warm summer night and watched
the vivid line draw nearer. Mr. Clifford and Maggie came out from time to time, and were evidently
disturbed by the unchecked progress of the fire. Alf had gone with his father, and anything
like a conflagration so terrified Johnnie that she dared not leave her mother's lighted room.

Suddenly the approaching line grew dim, was broken, and before very long even the last red
glow disappeared utterly. "Ah," said Mr. Clifford, rubbing his hands, "they have got the fire
under, and I don't believe it reached oar tract."

"How did they put it out so suddenly?" Miss Hargrove asked. "Were they not fighting it all
the time?"

"The boys will soon be here, and they can give you a more graphic account than I. Mother is
a little excited and troubled, as she always is when her great babies are away on such affairs,
so I must ask you to excuse me."

In little more than half an hour a swift gallop was heard, and Burt soon appeared, in the light
of the late-rising moon. "It's all out," he exclaimed. "Leonard and Webb propose remaining
an hour or two longer, to see that it does not break out again. There's no need of their doing
so, for Lumley promised to watch till morning. I'm not fit to be seen. If you'll wait till
I put on a little of the aspect of a white man, I'll join you." He had been conscious of a
feverish impatience to get back to the ladies, having carefully, even in his thoughts, employed
the plural, and he had feared that they might have retired.

Miss Hargrove exclaimed: "How absurd! You wish to go and divest yourself of all picturesqueness!
I've seen well-dressed men before, and would much prefer that you should join us as you are.
We can then imagine that you are a bandit or a frontiersman, and that your rake was a rifle,
which you had used against the Indians. We are impatient to have you tell us how you fought
the fire."

He gave but scant attention to Thunder that night, and soon stepped out on the moonlit piazza,
his tall, fine figure outlined to perfection in his close-fitting costume.

"You will, indeed, need all your imagination to make anything of our task to-night," he said.
"Fighting a mountain fire is the most prosaic of hard work. Suppose the line of fire coming
down toward me from where you are sitting." As yet unknown to him, a certain subtile flame
was originating in that direction. "We simply begin well in advance of it, so that we may have
time to rake a space, extending along the whole front of the fire, clear of leaves and rubbish,
and as far as possible to hollow out with hoes a trench through this space. Thus, when the
fire comes to this cleared area, there is nothing to burn, and it goes out for want of fuel.
Of course, it's rough work, and it must be done rapidly, but you can see that all the heroic
elements which you may have associated with our expedition are utterly lacking."

"Well, no matter. Amy and I have had our little romance, and have imagined you charging the
line of fire in imminent danger of being strangled with smoke, if nothing worse."

Amy soon heard Maggie bustling about, preparing a midnight lunch for those who would come home
hungry as well as weary, and she said that she would go and try to help. To Burt this seemed
sufficient reason for her absence, but Miss Hargrove thought, "Perhaps she saw that his eyes
were fixed chiefly on me as he gave his description. I wish I knew just how she feels toward him!"

But the temptation to remain in the witching moonlight was too strong to be resisted. His mellow
tones were a music that she had never heard before, and her eyes grew lustrous with suppressed
feeling, and a happiness to which she was not sure she was entitled. The spell of her beauty
was on him also, and the moments flew by unheeded, until Amy was heard playing and singing
softly to herself. "She does not join us again!" was Miss Hargrove's mental comment, and with
not a little compunction she rose and went into the parlor. Burt lighted a cigar, in the hope
that the girls would again join him, but Leonard, Webb, and Alf returned sooner than they were
expected, and all speedily sat down to their unseasonable repast. To Amy's surprise, Webb was
the liveliest of the party, but he looked gaunt from fatigue--so worn, indeed, that he reminded
her of the time when he had returned from Burt's rescue. But there was no such episode as had
then occurred before they parted for the night, and to this she now looked back wistfully.
He rose before the others, pleaded fatigue, and went to his room.

CHAPTER XLII

CAMPING OUT

They all gathered at a late breakfast, and the surface current of family and social life sparkled
as if there were no hidden depths and secret thoughts. Amy's manner was not cold toward Webb,
but her pride was touched, and her feelings were a little hurt. While disposed to blame herself
only that she had not the power to interest him and secure his companionship, as in the past,
it was not in human nature to receive with indifference such an apparent hint that he was far
beyond her. "It would be more generous in Webb to help than to ignore me because I know so
little," she thought. "Very well: I can have a good time with Burt and Gertrude until Webb
gets over his hurry and preoccupation;" and with a slight spirit of retaliation she acted as
if she thoroughly enjoyed Burt's lively talk.

The young fellow soon made a proposition that caused a general and breezy excitement. "There
never was a better time than this for camping out," he said. "The ground is dry, and there
is scarcely any dew. I can get two large wall tents. Suppose we go up and spend a few days
on our mountain tract? Maggie could chaperon the party, and I've no doubt that Dr. and Mrs.
Marvin would join us."

The discussion of the project grew lively. Maggie was inclined to demur. How could she leave
the old people and her housekeeping? Mr. and Mrs. Clifford, however, became the strongest advocates
of the scheme. They could get along with the servants, they said, and a little outing would
do Maggie good. Leonard, who had listened in comparative silence, brought his wife to a decision
by saying: "You had better go, Maggie. You will have all the housekeeping you want on the mountain,
and I will go back and forth every day and see that all's right. It's not as if you were beyond
the reach of home, for you could be here in an hour were there need. Come now, make up your
mind for a regular lark. It will do you good."

The children were wild with delight at the prospect, and Miss Hargrove and Amy scarcely less
pleased. The latter had furtively watched Webb, who at first could not disguise a little perplexity
and trouble at the prospect. But he had thought rapidly, and felt that a refusal to be one
of the party might cause embarrassing surmises. Therefore he also soon became zealous in his
advocacy of the plan. He felt that circumstances were changing and controlling his action.
He had fully resolved on an absence of some weeks, but the prolonged drought and the danger
it involved--the Cliffords would lose at least a thousand dollars should a fire sweep over
their mountain tract--made it seem wrong for him to leave home until rain insured safety. Moreover,
he believed that he detected symptoms in Burt which, with his knowledge of his brother, led
to hopes that he could not banish. An occasional expression in Miss Hargrove's dark eyes, also,
did not tend to lessen these hopes. "The lack of conventionality incident to a mountain camp,"
he thought, "may develop matters so rapidly as to remove my suspense. With all Amy's gentleness,
she is very sensitive and proud, and Burt cannot go much further with Miss Hargrove without
so awakening her pride as to render futile all efforts to retrieve himself. After all, Miss
Hargrove, perhaps, would suit him far better than Amy. They are both fond of excitement and
society. Why can't we all be happy? At least, if the way were clear, I would try as no man
ever tried to win Amy, and I should be no worse off than I am if I failed in the attempt."

These musings were rather remote from his practical words, for he had taken pains to give the
impression that their woodland would be far safer for the proposed expedition, and Amy had
said, a little satirically, "We are now sure of Webb, since he can combine so much business
with pleasure."

He only smiled back in an inscrutable way.

Musk-melons formed one of their breakfast dishes, and Miss Hargrove remarked, "Papa has been
exceedingly annoyed by having some of his finest ones stolen."

Burt began laughing, and said: "He should imitate my tactics. Ours were stolen last year, and
as they approached maturity, some time since, I put up a notice in large black letters, 'Thieves,
take warning: be careful not to steal the poisoned melons.' Hearing a dog bark one night about
a week ago, I took a revolver and went out. The moonlight was clear, and there, reading the
notice, was a group of ragamuffin boys. Stealing up near them, behind some shrubbery, I fired
my pistol in the air, and they fairly tumbled over each other in their haste to escape. We've
had no trouble since, I can assure you. I'll drive you home this morning, and, with your father's
permission, will put up a similar notice in your garden. We also must make our arrangements
for camping promptly. This weather can't last much longer. It surely will not if our mountain
experience makes us wish it would;" and, full of his projects, he hastened to harness Thunder
to his light top-wagon.

He might have taken the two-seated carriage, and asked Amy to accompany them, but it had not
occurred to him to do so, especially as he intended to drive on rapidly to Newburgh to make
arrangements for the tents. She felt a little slighted and neglected, and Miss Hargrove saw
that she did, but thought that any suggestion of a different arrangement might lead to embarrassment.
She began to think, with Webb, that the camping experience would make everything clearer. At
any rate, it promised so much unhackneyed pleasure that she resolved to make the most of it,
and then decide upon her course. She was politic, and cautioned Burt to say nothing until she
had first seen her father, for she was not certain how her stately and conventional mother
would regard the affair. She pounced upon Mr. Hargrove in his library, and he knew from her
preliminary caresses that some unusual favor was to be asked.

"Come," he said, "you wily little strategist, what do you want now? Half of my kingdom?"

She explained rather incoherently.

His answer was unexpected, for he asked, "Is Mr. Burt Clifford in the parlor?"

"No," she replied, faintly; "he's on the piazza." Then, with unusual animation, she began about
the melons. Her father's face softened, and he looked at her a little humorously, for her flushed,
handsome face would disarm a Puritan.

"You are seeing a great deal of this young Mr. Clifford," he said.

Her color deepened, and she began, hastily, "Oh, well, papa, I've seen a good deal of a great
many gentlemen."

"Come, come, Trurie, no disguises with me. Your old father is not so blind as you think, and
I've not lived to my time of life in ignorance of the truth that prevention is better than
cure. Whether you are aware of it or not, your eyes have revealed to me a growing interest
in Mr. Clifford."

She hid her face upon his shoulder.

"He is a comparatively poor man, I suppose, and while I think him a fine fellow, I've seen
in him no great aptness for business. If I saw that he was no more to you than others who have
sought your favor, I would not say a word, Trurie, for when you are indifferent you are abundantly
able to take care of yourself. I've been expecting this. I knew you would in time meet some
one who would have the power to do more than amuse you, and my love, darling, is too deep and
vigilant to be blind until it is too late to see. You are merely interested in Mr. Clifford
now. You might become more than interested during an experience like the one proposed."

"If I should, papa, am I so poor that I have not even the privilege of a village girl, who
can follow her heart?"

"My advice would be," he replied, gently, "that you guide yourself by both reason and your
heart. This is our secret council-chamber, and one is speaking to you who has no thought but
for your lasting happiness."

She took a chair near him, and looked into his eyes, as she said, thoughtfully and gravely:
"I should be both silly and unnatural, did I not recognize your motive and love. I know I am
not a child any longer, and should have no excuse for any school-girl or romantic folly. You
have always had my confidence; you would have had it in this case as soon as there was anything
to tell. I scarcely understand myself as yet, but must admit that I am more interested in Mr.
Clifford than in any man I ever met, and, as you said, I also have not reached my time of life
without knowing what this may lead to. You married mamma when she was younger than I, and you,
too, papa, were 'a comparatively poor man' at the time. I have thought a great deal about it.
I know all that wealth and fashionable society can give me, and I tell you honestly, papa,
I would rather be the happy wife that Maggie Clifford is than marry any millionaire in New
York. There is no need, however, for such serious talk, for there is nothing yet beyond congenial
companionship, and--Well," she added, hastily, in memory of Amy, "I don't believe anything
will come of it. But I want to go on this expedition. There will probably be two married ladies
in the party, and so I don't see that even mamma can object. Best assured I shall never become
engaged to any one without your consent; that is," she added, with another of her irresistible
caresses, "unless you are very unreasonable, and I become very old."

"Very well, Trurie, you shall go, with your mother's consent, and I think I can insure that.
As you say, you are no longer a child." And his thought was, "I have seen enough of life to
know that it is best not to be too arbitrary in such matters." After a moment he added, gravely,
"You say you have thought. Think a great deal more before you take any steps which may involve
all your future."

Burt was growing uneasy on the piazza, and feared that Miss Hargrove might not obtain the consent
that she had counted on so confidently. He was a little surprised, also, to find how the glamour
faded out of his anticipations at the thought of her absence, but explained his feeling by
saying to himself, "She is so bright and full of life, and has so fine a voice, that we should
miss her sadly." He was greatly relieved, therefore, when Mr. Hargrove came out and greeted
him courteously. Gertrude had been rendered too conscious, by her recent interview, to accompany
her father, but she soon appeared, and no one could have imagined that Burt was more to her
than an agreeable acquaintance. Mrs. Hargrove gave a reluctant consent, and it was soon settled
that they should try to get off on the afternoon of the following day. Burt also included in
the invitation young Fred Hargrove, and then drove away elated.

At the dinner-table he announced his success in procuring the tents, and his intention of going
for them in the afternoon. At the same time he exhorted Leonard and Maggie to prepare provisions
adequate to mountain appetites, adding, "Webb, I suppose, will be too busy to do more than
join us at the last moment."

Webb said nothing, but disappeared after dinner. As he was at supper as usual, no questions
were asked. Before it was light the next morning Amy thought she heard steps on the stairs,
and the rear hall-door shut softly. When finally awaking, she was not sure but that her impression
was a dream. As she came down to breakfast Burt greeted her with dismay.

"The tents, that I put on the back piazza, are gone," he said.

"Where is Webb?" was her quick response.

No one had seen him, and it was soon learned that a horse and a strong wagon were also missing.

"Ah, Burt," cried Amy, laughing, "rest assured Webb has stolen a march on you, and taken his
own way of retaliation for what you said at the dinner-table yesterday. He was away all the
afternoon, too. I believe he has chosen a camping-ground, and the tents are standing on it."

"He should have remembered that others might have some choice in the matter," was the discontented
reply.

"If Webb has chosen the camping-ground, you will all be pleased with it," said his mother,
quietly. "I think he is merely trying to give a pleasant surprise."

He soon appeared, and explained that, with Lumley's help, he had made some preparations, since
any suitable place, with water near, from which there was a fine outlook, would have seemed
very rough and uninviting to the ladies unless more work was done than could be accomplished
in the afternoon of their arrival.

"Now I think that is very thoughtful of you, Webb," said Amy. "The steps I heard last night
were not a dream. At what unearthly hour did you start?"

"Was I so heavy-footed as to disturb you?"

"Oh, no, Webb," she said, with a look of comic distress, in which there was also a little reproach;
"it's not your feet that disturb me, but your head. You have stuffed it so full of learning
that I am depressed by the emptiness of mine."

He laughed, as he replied, "I hope all your troubles may be quite as imaginary." Then he told
Leonard to spend the morning in helping Maggie, who would know best what was needed for even
mountain housekeeping, and said that he would see to farm matters, and join them early in the
evening. The peaches were ripening, and Amy, from her window, saw that he was taking from the
trees all fit to market; also that Abram, under his direction, was busy with the watering-cart.
"Words cannot impose upon me," she thought, a little bitterly. "He knows how I long for his
companionship, and it's not a little thing to be made to feel that I am scarcely better qualified
for it than Johnnie."

Burt galloped over to Dr. Marvin's, who promised to join them, with his wife, on the following
day. He had a tent which he had occasionally used in his ornithological pursuits.

At two in the afternoon a merry party started for the hills. All the vehicles on the farm had
been impressed into the service to bring up the party, with chairs, cooking-utensils, provisions,
bedding, etc. When they reached the ground that Webb had selected, even Burt admitted his pleased
surprise. The outlook over the distant river, and a wide area of country dotted with villages,
was superb, while to the camp a home-like look had already been given, and the ladies, with
many mental encomiums, saw how secluded and inviting an aspect had been imparted to their especial
abode. As they came on the scene, Lumley was finishing the construction of a dense screen of
evergreen boughs, which surrounded the canvas to the doorway. Not far away an iron pot was
slung on a cross-stick in gypsy style, and it was flanked by rock-work fireplaces which Maggie
declared were almost equal to a kitchen range. The men's tent was pitched at easy calling distance,
and, like that of the ladies, was surrounded by a thick growth of trees, whose shade would
be grateful. A little space had been cleared between the two tents for a leaf-canopied dining-hall,
and a table of boards improvised. The ground, as far as possible, had been cleared of loose
stones and rubbish. Around the fireplace mossy rocks abounded, and were well adapted for picturesque
groupings. What touched Amy most was a little flowerbed made of the rich black mould of decayed
leaves, in which were some of her favorite flowers, well watered. This did not suggest indifference
on the part of Webb. About fifty feet from the tents the mountain shelf sloped off abruptly,
and gave the magnificent view that has been mentioned. Even Burt saw how much had been gained
by Webb's forethought, and frankly acknowledged it. As it was, they had no more than time to
complete the arrangements for the night before the sun's level rays lighted up a scene that
was full of joyous activity and bustle. The children's happy voices made the echoes ring, and
Fred Hargrove, notwithstanding his city antecedents, yielded with delight to the love of primitive
life that exists in every boy's heart. Although he was a few years older than Alf, they had
become friendly rivals as incipient sportsmen and naturalists. Amy felt that she was coming
close to nature's heart, and the novelty of it all was scarcely less exciting to her than to
Johnnie. To little Ned it was a place of wonder and enchantment, and he kept them all in a
mild state of terror by his exploring expeditions. At last his father threatened to take him
home, and, with this awful punishment before his eyes, he put his thumb in his mouth, perched
upon a rock, and philosophically watched the preparations for supper. Maggie was the presiding
genius of the occasion, and looked like the light-hearted girl that Leonard had wooed more
than a dozen years before. She ordered him around, jested with him, and laughed at him in such
a piquant way that Burt declared she was proving herself unfit for the duties of chaperon by
getting up a flirtation with her husband. Meanwhile, under her supervision, order was evoked
from chaos, and appetizing odors arose from the fireplace.

Miss Hargrove admitted to herself that in all the past she had never known such hours of keen
enjoyment, and she was bent on proving that, although a city-bred girl, she could take her
part in the work as well as in the fun. Nor were her spirits dampened by the fact that Burt
was often at her side, and that Amy did not appear to care. The latter, however, was becoming
aware of his deepening interesting in her brilliant friend. As yet she was not sure whether
it was more than a good-natured and hospitable effort to make one so recently a stranger at
home with them, or a new lapse on his part into a condition of ever-enduring love and constancy--and
the smile that followed the thought was not flattering to Burt.

A little before supper was ready Maggie asked him to get a pail of water.

"Come, Miss Gertrude," he said, "and I'll show you the Continental spring at which the Revolutionary
soldiers drank more than a hundred years ago;" and she tripped away with him, nothing loth.
As they reappeared, flushed and laughing, carrying the pail between them, Amy trilled out,

"Jack and Jill came up the hill."

A moment later, Webb followed them, on horseback, and was greeted with acclamations and overwhelmed
with compliments. Miss Hargrove was only too glad of the diversion from herself, for Amy's
words had made her absurdly conscious for a society girl.

They feasted through the long twilight. Never had green corn, roasted in its husks on the coals,
tasted so delicious, and never before were peaches and cream so ambrosial. Amy made it her
care that poor Lumley should feast also, but the smile with which she served him was the sustenance
he most craved. Then, as the evening breeze grew chilly, and the night darkened, lanterns were
hung in the trees, the fire was replenished, and they sat down, the merriest of merry parties.
Even Webb had vowed that he would ignore the past and the future, and make the most of that
camp-fire by the wayside of life. It must be admitted, however, that his discovery of Burt
and Miss Hargrove alone at the spring had much to do with his resolution. Stories and songs
succeeded each other, until Ned was asleep in Maggie's arms, and Johnnie nodding at her side.
In reaction from the excitements and fatigues of the day, they all early sought the rest which
is never found in such perfection as in a mountain camp. Hemlock boughs formed the mattresses
on which their blankets were spread, and soon there were no sounds except the strident chirpings
of insects and the calls of night-birds.

There was one perturbed spirit, however, and at last Burt stole out and sat by the dying fire.
When the mind is ready for impressions, a very little thing will produce them vividly, and
Amy's snatch of song about "Jack and Jill" had awakened Burt at last to a consciousness that
he might be carrying his attention to Miss Hargrove too far, in view of his vows and inexorable
purpose of constancy. He assured himself that his only object was to have a good time, and
enjoy the charming society of his new acquaintance. Of course, he was in love with Amy, and
she was all that he could desire. Perhaps he had pursued the wrong tactics. Girls even like
Amy were not so unsophisticated as they appeared to be, and he felt that he was profoundly
experienced in such questions, if in nothing else. Had not her pride been touched? and would
she not be led, by his evident admiration for Miss Hargrove, to believe that he was mercurial
and not to be depended upon? He had to admit to himself that some experiences in the past had
tended to give him this reputation. "I was only a boy then," he muttered, with a stern compression
of the lips. "I'll prove that I am a man now;" and having made this sublime resolution, he
slept the sleep of the just.

All who have known the freshness, the elasticity, the mental and physical vigor, with which
one springs from a bed of boughs, will envy the camping party's awakening on the following
morning. Webb resolved to remain and watch the drift of events, for he was growing almost feverish
in his impatience for more definite proof that his hopes were not groundless. But he was doomed
to disappointment and increasing doubt. Burt began to show himself a skilful diplomatist. He
felt that, perhaps, he had checked himself barely in time to retrieve his fortunes and character
with Amy, but he was too adroit to permit any marked change to appear in his manner and action.
He said to himself that he cordially liked and admired Miss Hargrove, but he believed that
she had enjoyed not a few flirtations, and was not averse to the addition of another to the
list. Even his self-complacency had not led him to think that she regarded him in any other
light than that of a very agreeable and useful summer friend. He had seen enough of society
to be aware that such temporary friendships often border closely on the sentimental, and yet
with no apparent trace remaining in after-years. To Amy, however, such affairs would not appear
in the same light as they might to Miss Hargrove, and he felt that he had gone far enough.
But not for the world would he be guilty of gaucherie, of neglecting Miss Hargrove for ostentatious
devotion to Amy. Indeed, he was more pronounced in his admiration than ever, but in many little
unobtrusive ways he tried to prove to Amy that she had his deeper thoughts. She, however, was
not at this time disposed to dwell upon the subject. His manner merely tended to confirm the
view that he, like herself, regarded Miss Hargrove as a charming addition to their circle,
and proposed that she should enjoy herself thoroughly while with them. Amy also reproached
herself a little that she had doubted him so easily, and felt that he was giving renewed proof
of his good sense. He could be true to her, and yet be most agreeable to her friend, and her
former acquiescence in the future of his planning remained undisturbed. Webb was more like
the brother she wished him to be than he had been for a long time. The little flowerbed was
an abiding reassurance, and so the present contained all that she desired.

This was not true of either Webb or Miss Hargrove. The former, however, did not lose heart.
He thought he knew Burt too well to give up hope yet. The latter, with all her experience,
was puzzled. She speedily became conscious of the absence of a certain warmth and genuineness
in Bart's manner and words. The thermometer is not so sensitive to heat and cold as the intuition
of a girl like Miss Hargrove to the mental attitude of an admirer, but no one could better
hide her thoughts and feelings than she when once upon her guard.

CHAPTER XLIII

AN OLD TENEMENT

The few remaining days of August passed, and September came, bringing little suggestion of
autumn rains or coolness. Dr. and Mrs. Marvin had joined them, and the former's interest in
every wild creature of the woods became infectious. Alf and Fred were his ardent disciples,
and he rarely found an indifferent listener in Amy. The heat of the day was given up to reading
and the fashioning of alpenstocks, and the mornings and late afternoons to excursions. In one
of these they had sat down to rest near an immense decaying tree that was hollow in parts,
and full of holes from the topmost shattered branches to the ground.

"That," said the doctor, "might fitly be called an old tenement-house. You have no idea how
many and various creatures may have found a home in it."

He was immediately urged to enumerate its possible inhabitants in the past, present, and future.

The doctor, pleased with the conceit of regarding the decaying tree in this light, began with
animation: "All three of the squirrels of this region have undoubtedly dwelt in it. I scarcely
need do more than mention the well-known saucy red or fox squirrel, whose delight is mischief.
By the way, we have at home two tame robins that before they could fly were tumbled out of
their nest by one of these ruthless practical jokers. The birds come in and out of the house
like members of the family. The graceful gray squirrel is scarcely less familiar than the red
one. He makes a lively pet, and we have all seen him turning the wheel attached to his cage.
The curious little flying-squirrel, however, is a stranger even to those to whom he may be
a near neighbor, for the reason that his habits are chiefly nocturnal. He ventures out occasionally
on a cloudy day, but is shy and retiring. Thoreau relates an interesting experience with one.
He captured it in a decayed hemlock stump, wherein it had a little nest of leaves, bits of
bark, and pine needles. It bit viciously at first, and uttered a few 'dry shrieks,' but he
carried it home. After it had been in his room a few hours it reluctantly allowed its soft
fur to be stroked. He says it had 'very large, prominent black eyes, which gave it an innocent
look. In color it was a chestnut ash, inclining to fawn, slightly browned, and white beneath.
The under edge of his wings (?) tinged yellow, the upper dark, perhaps black.' He put it into
a barrel, and fed it with an apple and shag-bark hickory-nuts. The next morning he carried
it back and placed it on the stump from which it had been taken, and it ran up a sapling, from
which it skimmed away to a large maple nine feet distant, whose trunk it struck about four
feet from the ground. This tree it ascended thirty feet on the opposite side from Thoreau,
then, coming into view, it eyed its quondam captor for a moment or two, as much as to say 'good-by.'
Then away it went, first raising its head as if choosing its objective point. Thoreau says
its progress is more like that of a bird than he had been led to believe from naturalists'
accounts, or than he could have imagined possible in a quadruped. Its flight was not a regular
descent on a given line. It veered to right and left, avoiding obstructions, passed between
branches of trees, and flew horizontally part of the way, landing on the ground at last, over
fifty-one feet from the foot of the tree from which it sprang. After its leap, however, it
cannot renew its impetus in the air, but must alight and start again. It appears to sail and
steer much like a hawk when the latter does not flap its wings. The little striped chipmunk,
no doubt, has heaped up its store of nuts in the hole there that opens from the ground into
the tree, and the pretty white-footed mouse, with its large eyes and ears, has had its apartment
in the decayed recesses that exist in the worm-eaten roots.

"Opossums and raccoons are well-known denizens of trees, and both furnish famous country sports,
especially in the South. ''Possum up de gum-tree, cooney in de hollow,' is a line from a negro
ditty that touches a deep chord in the African heart. The former is found not infrequently
in this region, but the Hudson seems to be the eastern boundary of its habitat."

"I took two from a tree in one night," Burt remarked.

"The raccoon's haunts, however, extend far to the northward, and it is abundant in the regions
bordering on the Adirondacks, though not common in the dense pine woods of the interior. They
are omnivorous creatures, and often rob nests of eggs and young birds, for they are expert
climbers. They are fond of nuts and fruits, and especially of corn when in the condition of
a milky pulp. Nor does poultry come amiss. They are also eager fishermen, although they are
unable to pursue their prey under water like the otter and mink. They like to play in shallows,
and leave no stone unturned in the hope of finding a crawfish under it. If fish have been left
in land-locked pools, they are soon devoured. 'Coon-hunting by the light of the harvest-moon
has long been one of the most noted of rural sports. During this month the corn kernels are
in the most toothsome state for the 'coon bill of fare, and there are few fields near forests
where they will not be marauding to-night, for they are essentially night prowlers. A 'coon
hunt usually takes place near midnight. Men, with dogs trained to the sport, will repair to
a cornfield known to be infested. The feasters are soon tracked and treed, then shot, or else
the tree is felled, when such a snarling fight ensues as creates no little excitement. No matter
how plucky a cur may be, he finds his match in an old 'coon, and often carries the scars of
combat to his dying day.

"If taken when young, raccoons make amusing pets, and become attached to their masters, but
they cannot be allowed at large, for they are as mischievous as monkeys. Their curiosity is
boundless, and they will pry into everything within reach. Anything, to be beyond their reach,
must be under lock and key. They use their forepaws as hands, and will unlatch a door with
ease, and soon learn to turn a knob. Alf there could not begin to ravage a pantry like a tame
'coon. They will devour honey, molasses, sugar, pies, cake, bread, butter, milk--anything edible.
They will uncover preserve-jars as if Mrs. Leonard had given them lessons, and with the certainty
of a toper uncork a bottle and get drunk on its contents."

"No pet 'coons, Alf, if you please," said his mother.

"Raccoons share with Reynard his reputation for cunning," the doctor resumed," and deserve
it, but they do not use this trait for self-preservation. They are not suspicious of unusual
objects, and, unlike a fox, are easily trapped. They hibernate during the coldest part of the
winter, reappearing in the latter part of February or March. They are fond of little excursions,
and usually travel in small family parties, taking refuge in hollow trees about daylight. They
make their home high up, and prefer a hollow limb to the trunk of a tree. Some of those half-decayed
limbs yonder would just suit them. They have their young in April--from four to six--and these
little 'coons remain with the mother a year. While young they are fair eating, but grow tough
and rank with age.

"Two other interesting animals may have lived in that tree, the least weasel and his sanguinary
cousin the ermine, or large weasel. Both are brown, after the snow finally disappears, and
both turn white with the first snowstorm."

"Now you are romancing, doctor," cried Miss Hargrove.

"Yes," added Leonard, "tell us that you have caught a weasel asleep, and we will, at least,
look credulous; but this turning white with the first snow, and brown as soon as the snow is
gone, is a little off color."

"It's true, nevertheless," maintained the doctor, "although I have seen no satisfactory explanation
of the changes. They not only make their nests in hollow trees, but in the sides of banks.
Were it not for its habit of destroying the eggs and young of birds, the least weasel might
be regarded as a wholly useful creature, for it devours innumerable mice, moles, shrews, and
insects, and does not attack larger animals or poultry. It is so exceedingly lithe and slender
that its prey has no chance to escape. Where a mouse or a mole can go it can go also, and if
outrun in the field, it follows the scent of its game like a hound, and is as relentless as
fate in its pursuit. They are not very shy, and curiosity speedily overcomes their timidity.
Sit down quietly, and they will investigate you with intense interest, and will even approach
rather near in order to see better. Dr. Merriam describes one as standing bolt-upright, and
eying him, with its head bent at right angles to its slender body. After a brief retreat it
made many partial advances toward him, meanwhile constantly sniffing the air in his direction.
I've no doubt Dr. Merriam would have liked to know the weasel's opinion. They have two or three
litters a year, and the nest is made of dry leaves and herbage. The mother weasel will defend
her young at any cost, and never hesitates to sacrifice her life in their behalf. She will
fasten herself by her sharp teeth to the nose of a dog, and teach him that weasel-hunting has
some drawbacks.

"In its next of kin, the ermine, or large weasel, we have perhaps the most cruel and bloodthirsty
animal in existence. It is among mammals what the butcher-bird is among the feathered tribes--an
assassin, a beautiful fiend. It would seem that nature reproduces among animals and plants
every phase of human character. Was it Nero or Caligula who said, 'Oh, that Rome had but one
neck, that I might sever it?' Such is the spirit that animates the ermine. Its instinct to
kill is so strong that, were it possible, it would destroy the means of its subsistence. It
would leave none of its varied prey alive. The lion and even the man-eating tiger, when gorged,
are inert and quiet. They kill no more than they want for a meal; but the ermine will attack
a poultry-yard, satiate itself with the brains of the fowls or by sucking their blood, and
then, out of 'pure cussedness,' will kill all the rest within reach. Fifty chickens have been
destroyed in a night by one of these remorseless little beasts. It makes fearful ravages among
grouse, rabbits, and hares. It is the mythical vampire embodied. It is not very much larger
than the least weasel, and has the same long, lithe, slender body and neck. A gray squirrel
would look bulky beside one, but in indomitable courage and pitiless ferocity I do not think
it has an equal. Only a lack of material or bodily fatigue suspends its bloody work, and its
life is one long career of carnage. It has a terrific set of teeth, which are worked by most
powerful muscles. Dr. Coues, an eminent naturalist, has given a graphic account of him. His
words, as I remember them, are a true portrait of a murderer. 'His forehead is low, and nose
sharp; his eyes are small, penetrating, cunning, and glitter with an angry green light. His
fierce face surmounts a body extraordinarily wiry, lithe, and muscular, which ends in a singularly
long, slender neck that can be lifted at right angles with the body. When he is looking around,
his neck stretched up, his flat triangular head bent forward, swaying to and fro, we have the
image of a serpent.'

"This is a true picture of the ermine when excited or angry; when at rest, and in certain conditions
of his fur, there are few more beautiful, harmless, innocent-looking creatures. Let one of
the animals on which he preys approach, however, and instantly he becomes a demon. In the economy
of nature he often serves a very useful purpose. In many regions field mice are destructive.
The ermine is their deadliest foe. A rat will fight a man, if cornered, but it gives up at
once in abject terror when confronted by the large weasel. This arch-enemy has a pride in his
hunting, and when taking up his quarters in a barn will collect in one place all the rats and
mice he kills. Sometimes a hundred or more have been found together as the result of two or
three nights' work. The ermine hunts, however, both by day and night, and climbs trees with
great facility. He is by no means shy, and one has been known to try to kill chickens in a
coop when a man was standing near him. Hunger was not his motive, for he had destroyed dozens
of fowls the night before. The ermine has been used successfully as a ferret. Having first
filed the creature's teeth down, so that it could not kill the game, a gentleman secured twelve
live rabbits in one forenoon.

"But it's getting late, and time we started tentward, and yet I'm not through even the list
of quadrupeds that may have dwelt in our old tenement. There are four species of bats to be
mentioned, besides moles and shrews, that would burrow in its roots if they are as hollow as
the branches. There are thirteen species of birds, including several very interesting families
of woodpeckers, that would live in a tree like that, not to speak of tree-toads, salamanders,
brown tree-lizards, insects and slugs innumerable, and black-snakes--"

"Snakes?" interrupted Burt, incredulously.

"Yes, snakes. I once put my hand in a hole for high-holders' eggs, and a big black-snake ran
down my back, but not inside of my coat, however."

"Please say nothing more about snakes," cried Amy; and she rose decisively, adding, in a low
tone: "Come, Gertrude, let us go. The tenants of the old tree that we've heard about may be
very interesting to naturalists, but some of them are no more to my taste than the people in
the slums of London."

"You have made our blood run cold with horrors--an agreeable sensation, however, to-day," said
Burt, also rising. "Your ermine out-Herods Herod. By the way, is not the fur of this pitiless
beast worn by the highest dignitaries of the legal profession?" and he hastened after the girls.

CHAPTER XLIV

"BUT HE RISKED HIS LIFE?"

The days passed, and the novelty of their mountain life began to wane a little. There were
agreeable episodes, as, for instance, visits from Mr. Clifford, Mr. Hargrove, and the Rev.
Mr. Barkdale, who were entertained in royal style; but, after all, the camping experience was
not, apparently, fulfilling the hopes of two of the party. Webb's doubt and suspense had only
been increased, and Miss Hargrove was compelled to admit to herself that her father's fears
were not groundless. She was the life of the party, and yet she was not at rest. Even in her
dreams there was a minor key of trouble and dread. The past few weeks were bringing a revelation.
She had read novels innumerable; she had received tender confidences from friends. Love had
been declared to her, and she had seen its eloquent pleading in more than one face; but she
acknowledged that she had never known the meaning of the word until, without her volition,
her own heart revealed to her the mystery. Reason and will might control her action, but she
could no more divert her thoughts from Burt Clifford than a flower can turn from the sun. She
wondered at herself, and was troubled. She had supposed that the training of society had brought
her perfect self-possession, and she had looked forward to a match, when she was ready for
one, in which the pros and cons should be weighed with diplomatic nicety; but now that her
heart was touched she learned that nature is supreme, and her whole being revolted at such
a union as she had contemplated. She saw the basis of true marriage--the glad consent of body
and soul, and not a calculation. She watched Maggie closely, and saw that her life was happy
and rounded out in spite of her many cares. It was not such a life as she would choose in its
detail, and yet it was infinitely better than that of many of her acquaintances. Burt was no
hero in her eyes, but he was immensely companionable, and it was a companion, not a hero, or
a man remote from her life and interests, that she desired. He was refined and intelligent,
if not learned; low, mean traits were conspicuously absent; but, above and beyond all, his
mirthful blue eyes, and spirited ways and words, set all her nerves tingling with a delicious
exhilaration which she could neither analyze nor control. In brief, the time that her father
foresaw had come; the man had appeared who could do more than amuse; her whole nature had made
its choice. She could go back to the city, and still in semblance be the beautiful and brilliant
girl that she had been; but she knew that in all the future few waking hours would pass without
her thoughts reverting to that little mountain terrace, its gleaming canvas, its gypsy-like
fire, with a tall, lithe form often reclining at her feet beside it.

Would the future bring more than regretful memories? As time passed, she feared not.

As Burt grew conscious of himself, his pride was deeply touched. He knew that he had been greatly
fascinated by Miss Hargrove, and, what was worse, her power had not declined after he had awakened
to his danger; but he felt that Amy and all the family would despise him--indeed, that he would
despise himself--should he so speedily transfer his allegiance; and under the spur of this
dread he made especial, though very unobtrusive, efforts to prove his loyalty to Amy. Therefore
Webb had grown despondent, and his absences from the camp were longer and more frequent He
pleaded the work of the farm, and the necessity of coping with the fearful drought, so plausibly
that Amy felt that she could not complain, but, after all, there was a low voice of protest
in her heart. "It's the old trouble," she thought. "The farm interests him far more than I
ever can, and even when here his mind is absent."

Thus it may be seen that Nature, to whom they had gone, was not only busy with the mountain
and its life, but that her silent forces were also at work in those whose unperverted hearts
were not beyond her power.

But there are dark mysteries in Nature, and some of her creations appear to be visible and
concentrated evil. The camping party came very near breaking up in a horrible tragedy. The
day was growing warm, and they were returning from a rather extended excursion, straggling
along a steep wood road that was partially overgrown with bushes. Burt had been a little more
attentive to Miss Hargrove than usual, but was now at Amy's side with his ready laugh and jest.
Dr. Marvin was in the rear, peering about, as usual, for some object of interest to a naturalist.
Miss Hargrove, so far from succumbing to the increasing heat, was reluctant to return, and
seemed possessed with what might be almost termed a nervous activity. She had been the most
indefatigable climber of the party, and on their return had often diverged from the path to
gather a fern or some other sylvan trifle. At one point the ascending path formed an angle
with a ledge of rock that made a little platform. At the further end of this she saw a flower,
and she went to get it. A moment or two later Burt and Amy heard her scream, and the sound
of her voice seemed almost beneath them. Grasping his alpenstock firmly, Burt sprang through
the intervening copsewood, and witnessed a scene that he never forgot, though he paused not
a second in his horror. Even as he rushed toward her a huge rattlesnake was sending forth the
"long, loud, stinging whir" which, as Dr. Holmes says, is "the dreadful sound that nothing
which breathes can hear unmoved." Miss Hargrove was looking down upon it, stupefied, paralyzed
with terror. Already the reptile was coiling its thick body for the deadly stroke, when Burt's
stock fell upon its neck and laid it writhing at the girl's feet. With a flying leap from the
rock above he landed on the venomous head, and crushed it with his heel. He had scarcely time
to catch Miss Hargrove, when she became apparently a lifeless burden in his arms.

Dr. Marvin now reached him, and after a glance at the scene exclaimed, "Great God! Burt, she
was not bitten?"

"No; but let us get away from here. Where there's one of these devils there is usually another
not far off;" and they carried the unconscious girl swiftly toward the camp, which fortunately
was not far away, all the others following with dread and anxiety in their faces.

Dr. Marvin's and Maggie's efforts soon revived Miss Hargrove, but she had evidently received
a very severe nervous shock. When at last Burt was permitted to see her, she gave him her hand
with such a look of gratitude, and something more, which she could not then disguise, that
his heart began to beat strangely fast. He was so confused that he could only stammer some
incoherent words of congratulation; but he half-consciously gave her hand a pressure that left
the most delicious pain the young girl had ever known. He was deeply excited, for he had taken
a tremendous risk in springing upon a creature that can strike its crooked fangs through the
thick leather of a boot, as a New York physician once learned at the cost of his life, when
he carelessly sought to rouse with his foot a caged reptile of this kind.

Miss Hargrove had ceased to be a charming summer acquaintance to Burt. She was the woman at
whose side he had stood in the presence of death.

Before their midday repast was ready a rumble of wagons was heard coming up the mountain, and
Webb soon appeared. "The barometer is falling rapidly," he said, "and father agrees with me
that it will be safer for you all to return at once."

He found ready acquiescence, for after the event of the morning the ladies were in haste to
depart. Lumley, who had come up with Webb, was sent to take the rattles from the snake, and
the men drew apart, with Alf and Fred, to discuss the adventure, for it was tacitly agreed
that it would be unwise to talk about snakes to those whose nerves were already unstrung at
the thought of such fearful neighbors. Dr. Marvin would have gone with Lumley had not his wife
interposed. As it was, he had much to say concerning the habits and character of the reptiles,
to which the boys listened with awe. "By the way," he concluded, "I remember a passage from
that remarkable story, 'Elsie Venner,' by Oliver Wendell Holmes, in which he gives the most
vivid description of the rattlesnake I have ever seen. One of his characters has two of them
in a cage. Their eyes did not flash, but shone with a cold, still light.

The ladies now joined them at dinner--the last at their rustic board. Miss Hargrove was very
pale, but she was a spirited girl, and was bent on proving that there was nothing weak or hysterical
in her nature. Neither was there the flippancy that a shallow woman might have manifested.
She acted like a brave, well-bred lady, whose innate refinement and good sense enabled her
speedily to regain her poise, and take her natural place among her friends. They all tried
to be considerate, and Amy's solicitude did not indicate the jealousy that her friend almost
expected to see.

Before they had finished their repast an east wind was moaning and sighing in the trees, and
a thin scud of clouds overcasting the sky. They were soon in the haste and bustle of departure.
Miss Hargrove found an opportunity, however, to draw Dr. Marvin aside, and asked, hesitatingly,

"If Burt--if Mr. Clifford had missed his aim when he sprang upon the snake, what would have
happened?"

"You had better not dwell on that scene for the present, Miss Hargrove."

"But I wish to know,"" she said, decisively. "I am not a child, and I think I have a right
to know."

