I suppose you don't know Maria? You ought to. She was a great comfort to me while I was at
Hampton. Did I love her? Ah, most truly! I have sat on the hotel porch and watched Maria in
her front yard by the hour. I suppose if I were to meet her to-day she would hardly recollect
my name, so inconsistent is her sex, but I left my heart with her. It is true that she was
not conventional, that her skirts hardly came to her knees; that she could not write, and that
her general air was not that of a society woman, but to a sick man she was an inexpressible
comfort. I have written her name Maria, but she was also called Mar-i-a, Mari-a-a-a, Mari-uh,
and oh-h-h, M-a-r-i-a. These names she was called from the rising of the sun to the going down
thereof. I don't think I have ever known a more versatile genius than Maria. At times she was
a steamboat, with loud blowing of the whistle; at other times she was a bear and devoured other
children with grunts and growls of great ferocity; at other times, she was a horse of such
high mettle and spirit as could only find vent in chewing up the front gate and pawing her
mother's geraniums into the earth. But it was in her great and realistic combat with dogs that
I admired Maria most. Every day about noon two setter dogs would come lounging about the yard
with the most innocent air in the world. It was Maria's lunch time and the little thing would
toddle in and bring out her lunch. No sooner would she appear than the dogs would rush on her
and roll her in the dirt. There was a brief scuffle, an agonizing scream, the dirt flew, the
dogs rushed off, and Maria sat up in tears, dirt and hunger. The lunch was gone. By the time
quiet was restored, the dogs would come to see if they had left any in their hurry, and the
forgiving little one would start in to play with them as if nothing had happened. I was there
two months, and if Maria got a whole lunch in that time, I didn't see it. Sometimes the dogs
had forgotten to look at their watches and would be a couple of minutes behind time, but all
the same they rushed on her and took what there was. Often the screams would bring her mother
out, and Maria would go into a little explanation which, as she couldn't talk, didn't make
things very clear, consisting chiefly of "a-h-s" and "o-h-s." Little as she was, she had a
spice of shrewdness which unfortunately didn't work well. She would commence her scream directly
she brought her lunch out, but as soon as she found it only served to make the dogs more promptly
on time, she gave it up. I have had a good deal of amusement, one way or another, but Maria
stands at the head of the list in my memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

I made the acquaintance of a married couple at Afton. I do not often hold up the private life
of my acquaintances to illustrate moral reason, but I must make this an exception. I believe
the gentleman was brought to Afton for the protection of sheep, and to test the statement that
a goat with a flock of sheep would keep off the dogs. When I saw him he was a moral wreck.
He had become a professional lounger around the depot where he chewed up old paper, straw,
and such odd crumbs of lunch as the passengers would throw out of the car windows. His hair
was full of burrs and he had gotten one of his legs broken by the cars. His occupation was
to wrestle with all the trifling fellows, white and black, around the depot, butt them when
he could, and be ridden by them when he couldn't. He had long since lost his situation at the
sheep fold, having proved rather an attraction to dogs, who are fond of low company, than a
protection to sheep. Untidy, thriftless, a loafer, kicked and cuffed about by the public and
half starved, he presented a pitiable contrast to his wife, neat little lady, who, after her
husband had lost his situation, left him and joined a respectable circle of cows and spent
her time with them, fat, sleek, eminently respectable, and as regular as clockwork in taking
them out to pasture and bringing them home. The moral point that I wish to make is this--if
you give a woman half a chance she will be a lady; if you give a man half a chance he will
go to the dogs. It is in the sex of the animal.

       *       *       *       *       *

I often hear it said of a man that he has "the manners of the old school," by which is meant
courteous, deferential manners. I don't know that any particular "school," old or new, will
give a man good manners, but it is certainly true that age does ripen and mellow those of both
men and women. As we grow older we become aware that there are a great many other people besides
ourselves in the world, and that if we want to go through it smoothly we must keep to the right
and not insist on keeping our elbows akimbo in a crowd. A rude young man may reform, but a
rude old man may be regarded as having been illy bred early in life, and hopeless. Good manners
are very like the catechism lessons our mothers teach us when children. They don't count for
a great deal at the time, but the result comes up in life a long, long time afterwards. I think
I can tell you of the "old school" where really good manners originated. The Teacher has long
since gone, and sometimes I have fear the old school itself has changed, but He left the rule
with us when He departed, and here it is: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." After
the Teacher left, many new doctrines were brought about, and much chop-logic was put into the
text-books by those who succeeded Him, but with all their human invention they have never approached
the perfection of the motto that He left behind for the corner-stone of good manners. It is
that, I think, that makes old men have better manners; they have learned that there is a good
deal more in the people of the world to appeal to their affection and kindly toleration than
they thought for at the beginning of their lives; that there is a great deal of good in every
man and woman, and that it won't do to pick out their faults to the exclusion of their virtues;
that a touch of kindly courtesy will often reveal to you a wholly different man from the surly
one who stood before you a minute before; in short, our old man has learned more and more the
lesson to love his neighbor as himself. That is the true "old school" founded eighteen hundred
years ago.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN X

The procession of two regiments of veterans through our streets a few days ago must have set
a good many of us retired veterans who were not in the line, to thinking. It did me. It set
me to thinking, not of war, not of peace, not of reunions, but of how time has changed us all
in twenty years. In a neighboring city where I volunteered, the old company, with the old name
and the old uniform, is still kept up by our young successors. I saw it lately on parade, and
as I saw the trim looking young fellows of from nineteen to twenty-five, clad in the same bright
uniform of twenty years ago, and stepping out with all the brisk and cheery step of youth,
it looked as if there had been a resurrection of the old days. Could we old gray heads ever
have looked like these! Could that gay young spark mounted on the leading caisson horse and
furtively chaffing No. 13 be Hilleary and Hutchins come to life again? Could that serious,
slender boy, all attention to the word of command, be the grave and clerical Hale Houston of
this day gone back to youth again. Can that sturdy No. 4 at the gun, be old Boss Lumpkin? Could
we all have looked as fresh and full of youth, and as full of engaging humor and good temper
as these young fellows? I suppose we did, though it is hard to be believed, even by ourselves.
I can tell you of a reunion that, if promised, would bring more of the old boys together than
all the patriotism than can ever fill the American heart. Just promise them that for that day
they shall be young again! Bless my heart, what a crowd you could have! Young again, mark you,
both in mind and body. I don't know one of the old fellows who, if he had the option, wouldn't
take back the youth he had twenty-three years ago with the war, famine and hardships that followed.
What a deal of difference it does make to a man whether the world is behind or in front of him.

Do you know--of course this is confidential--that I am glad the schools have gone for the summer.
Education has been a thorn in our family for some time past, indeed since the younger member
got into the higher branches. Until lately it has been the impression of Mrs. Boyzy and myself
that we spoke the English language with facility and much correctness, and as for facility
I will put Mrs. B. against any picked nine that may be brought. But recently we have been greatly
humiliated by our eldest girl, who comes back daily from school with a new pronunciation. Incredulity
on our part is met by lugging the dictionary into the conflict and we are defeated at once.
So victorious has the little one become that we tremble when we hear, "Mamma, how do you pronounce
so and so," and prepare for another humiliation. My wife's plaintive, "It was pronounced so
when I was a girl," is very touching to me, but when did the young ever have mercy on the old?
The last conflict had--I hope it will be the last--was over the word "Squalor." The young one,
after setting the usual trap of demanding how we pronounced it, announced that it was spoken
"squaylor." At this my wife, astonished into resistance, made her last flight, and said with
much dignity, that that pronunciation was silly and there must be a mistake. In a moment more
she was prostrated by the well directed dictionary. In the evening after the children had gone
upstairs, Mrs. B. locked up her sewing and remarked that a good deal of what is taught children
in these days is nonsense. I did not reply. Had I, I should have been forced to remind her
that she and I put our parents through the same mill in which the educational gods are now
grinding us so sharply. I take it that pronunciation, I mean that of ordinary refinement and
education, varies pretty much as bonnets do in style and, like them, is a matter that taste
has a good deal to do with; and locality as well. Forty years ago in the jungles of East Virginia
I spoke glahss, fahst, ahnser; I never heard of papa and mamma, but of father and mother, and
I find they are teaching the children of this day to say that, too. I was taught to say g-yarden,
c-yar, s-yuit, and, I suppose, that will also be resurrected after a while. Pronunciation,
I take it, is a matter of provincial taste. Reading Chaucer, I have often wondered what standard
of that sparsely educated day fixed the standard by which he could be read aloud. And by the
bye who, of this more cultivated day, is authority for fixing the standard? Not the Dictionaries,
for they differ. I dare say that after all we must fall back on taste. In the national metropolis
of America, I have noticed a half-dozen different pronunciations among educated people, so
distinct as to be readily noticed. But the best opportunity to be had is in an army gathered
from all quarters of the country, or even from all quarters of a section, as the Confederate
army was. I noticed a dozen different pronunciations, the two from North Carolina and Georgia
being the most distinctly marked. I have heard it said hastily, that all educated people pronounce
alike, but I think, with more deliberation and more opportunity for judging, it would be safer
to say that all uneducated people pronounce alike.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am not one of the old men who take delight in "lecturing" the young. I hate the very word,
for I shall never travel far enough from my youth to forget how I disliked both the lecture
and the lecturer. But sometimes I have an indescribable yearning to go and say a word to them.
I feel pretty much like one who, having found a circus to be of no account and leaving the
performance, finds another man at the ticket-wagon eagerly putting down his money for a ticket.
It looks like a pity and I want to tell him so. I saw a lot of nice-looking young fellows the
other day--I was told they were boys from one of the Universities,--standing on a corner badly
flushed with liquor and swearing at a high rate. They were evidently out for "a time." I should
have liked to say something like this: "Now, boys, just let this thing drop there. Really,
there is nothing in it. No young man with a sound body can need liquor, and no one with a sound
reason can need the excitement of cards. We old fellows have been all along there, and there
is nothing in it. I am the chief secretary of the Ancient Order of Old Boys, and my opportunities
of acquiring knowledge have been exceptional. I don't wish to hold up any raw head and bloody
bones of premature death and disgrace, and all that sort of thing, but I would like to say
this much to you: If you want to take a drink, take it and go about your business, but don't
associate together for the purpose of drinking, whether for a night or for an hour. You will
read, before the long life that is before you ends, a hundred ways of accounting for drunkards--heredity,
inclination, regular drinking, grief, disappointed love, and all that sort of thing, but all
put together they do not begin to approximate the cause I tell you of,--"associating together."
It is the associating together of boys, the late nights, the early morning drinks, taken more
frequently later on, and lastly the appetite. It is the associating together for the purpose
of drinking that causes that selvage of bad company to adhere to the good company you started
out with earlier in the evening, and it is the selvage of low company that will give every
self-respecting man a good deal of disagreeable reflection when he comes to look back at it.
Don't buy that sort of a ticket, my boy; the show won't pay you."

Speaking of veterans reminds me of something I would like to say right here. Do you know there
is nothing more awkward to a man--that is nothing more awkward to me, and like all egotists
I judge all by myself--than meeting a familiar friend whom I have not seen for twenty years.
We expect each other to be the old heart-to-heart friends of long ago, but how to go about
re-establishing the relation is the puzzle. We have all had new friends, new histories, new
lives since twenty years ago, and while we make an unsatisfactory attempt to be the same "old
boys" to each other, each feels the dismal failure. Memory is faithful, but while we remember
with affection that we were Tom and Dick to each other then (twenty years ago) we cannot, out
of that slender material, build up a hearty fraternal conversation of to-day. And with advancing
years we find that the old subjects that we spent hours of mirth over, a life-time ago, are
not amusing to-day, if indeed our defective memories can recall them. Ah! how little it took
to furnish youth with mirth, that common standing ground upon which all so easily form acquaintance
and friendship. I trust I may be forgiven, seeing that I meant well, but I declare to you that
I have practiced outrageous deceit in affecting to remember incidents that some of these old
boys recall, and in trying to be agreeable by so doing. But doubtless you have also. Perhaps
we all have. After all I take it that separation, like time, tries everything--love, friendship,
even acquaintance, and those of the three which survive the test are like the ruins of ancient
cities, of great value as curiosities, but worth little for aught else. Mrs. Boyzy remarks
that this is a heartless view of it. But I silence that estimable woman by the observation
that philosophers do not take the heart into account; the heart is the field of young lovers,
physicians' fees and patent medicines. This observation which she does not understand, and,
I may admit to you I am not so clear about myself, convinces her that I am not only a philosopher,
but a profound one. Ah! to a man of profound observation, how many better ways of securing
the respect of the female sex there are than the primitive one of clubbing them.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN XI

I do not reverence ministers of the gospel simply because they hold that office, any more than
I esteem a man as a gentleman simply because he has the manners and dress of one. The bare
fact that at some period in his life, oftenest the period of youth, when the mind teems with
odd fancies and ambitions, a man has concluded that he is called to the ministry, has successfully
gotten through theology and been ordained, forms too uncertain a foundation on which to base
reverence, which is one of the most solemn emotions of the mind. But I do respect and reverence
the credentials of an earnest, God-fearing and self-sacrificing life which are found with these
men, and I am obliged in excusing this weakness, to say that in a long and varied experience
with them, these traits have been characteristic of those I have met. But it is not my lack
of reverence that I intended to write about, it is the contradictory way in which those who
are under their charge view this matter. The practical, effective and active irreverence of
professing Christians astonishes as much as it puzzles me. They believe, or assume to believe,
in the sacredness of the ministry and in the reverence due ministers as such; how do they show
it? It seems to me that the architectural custom of elevating the pulpit above the heads of
the people arose out of the congregational custom of shooting at the preacher. You may tell
me what you please about the world's people, but it is the well-directed volley from the communicants'
pews, generally fired from ambush, that does the business for the preacher's influence. Did
you ever think of the marked absurdity in the contrast? The subject of calling a preacher is
prefaced by prayer; the Almighty is invoked to send a man of His choice; the man is installed
with impressive ceremony and much prayer; he is introduced by other ministers at the installation
with allusions to him as the under shepherd to whom is to be rendered obedience and reverence.
The new man then goes heartily to work for God, and the congregation goes heartily to work
on him. They criticise his style, peck at every imperfection, intellectual and social, and
soon put him in a state of siege. If the Almighty, who it was at first claimed sent him, delivers
him, he is in luck; but the usual end is that the congregation itself effects his deliverance
by giving him the same warm experience that the terrapin undergoes when it is desired to see
him walk. After a persistent ham-stringing of the ministerial horse, the congregation are astonished
that he cannot pull his load. I am a business man, and in many years have had many men in my
employment, but nothing would have more astonished me at any time in my business life than
to be told that I was systematically impairing and obstructing the usefulness of the men that
I was paying to work for me and from whose labor I expected some profit. It is the most inexplicable
inconsistency to me in congregations, which generally include a large percentage of business
men. I have used the word systematically, because it seems to me that it is a system which
pervades to a greater or less extent all congregations of all denominations, and is confined
exclusively to no one. Nor is it the worst element in a congregation that is guilty of it;
I am sorry to say that it is prevalent among even the best members. Even that excellent woman,
Mrs. Boyzy, whose mind is often tortured by the apprehension that absence from church service
will seriously affect my future prospers, often regales me after church with keen criticism
of the sermon and the weak points of our preacher. And yet that estimable woman, on hearing
our eldest daughter indulge last Sunday in a similar strain, warned her against the wickedness
of her irreverence. I beg you to understand that I am not taking the part of pastors against
congregations any more than I would take the part of our little girl against her pious mother,
but what I write is merely to blaze the way, as it were, to a settlement of the question: Whether
a pastor is a shepherd set over a congregation by the Almighty, or whether he is a man whom
an angry God has delivered into their hands that he may suffer for his sins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Have I said anywhere in this paper that Spring has come? Well, I say it now. It is a sad, gloomy
time to man, however woman may look at it. It is now that the family man sees looming ahead
the Easter bonnet trimmed with deadly $ marks, and the Spring outfits embroidered with the
same costly material. Why is this? Now, I have known X., my next door neighbor, for eleven
years, and in that time I have never known him to have an Easter hat or an Easter coat or an
Easter pair of pants. I saw him at the Opera lately and his wife had on a seal skin sacque,
and plain X. himself had on no gloves. Why should X. be compelled to carry through life a bird
of paradise, while he appears in the sombre and often shiny costume of the more humble crow?
And now that I have asked that audacious question, let me ask another: Why is it that as soon
as the frost of age touches a man he commences to tone down his dress, and as soon as it touches
a woman she commences to tone hers up with all the hot house appliances to imitate the spring
time of life. I don't ask this in a snarly spirit; but as a psychological riddle. Why is it
that in November, with all her brown foliage and scarlet leaves and wind reddened sky, cannot
be content with being handsome and natural, but should resort to the buds and flowers and bird-like
airs of beautiful June to make her pretty. Ah, there are no flowers, no feathers, no ribbons,
no latest fashions that can hold their own against Youth. Before it the milliner, the tailor
and the mantua-maker are helpless to render effective assistance to Age. Ah, Youth, careless,
painless, peerless, I drink to you--and put a drop of peppermint in it. Tom, I was up a little
late with the boys last evening.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN XII

Somehow the town presents to me a bereaved appearance. Since the action of the authorities
clearing the sidewalks, I seem to miss some of my best friends. The tenants of the pavement
had become my companions, after a fashion, so familiar were they to me. The extravagant gentleman
who stood in front of the clothing store, with his change of clothes every day and the fixed
stare out of his rain-washed eyes, was one of my warmest friends. He was no fair weather friend.
The dusts of March, the showers of April, made no difference with him. He was there, always
there, with his waterproof for the rain, his duster for the summer heat, and his sou-wester
perched on his head when the Equinox set in. He had one of the most even dispositions I ever
knew and always regarded me with the same mild, far-off look, whatever uniform or decoration
he wore. He was the same with a blue jumper and overalls as he was with a diagonal suit with
"This style $25" flying from the button-hole. There was a great gap the morning he disappeared.
The deserted street looked like a Sunday or a funeral or some other occasion of unusual sadness.
I went in one day to inquire about him. I didn't have far to go; he had been tumbled into a
corner with empty collar boxes, a broken coal scuttle, and some fire kindling. He appeared
deeply mortified. "This is a strange fix you find me in, Mr. Boyzy," he said as he struggled
to sit endwise on the bottom of the coal scuttle, "and it is a strange world we find both of
ourselves in, sir. Great crimes are committed in the name of progress, sir, very great, and
this is one of them. I have been a public man in this city for ten years, sir. I have guided
the tastes of the public--few knew how to clothe themselves until I showed them, and few would
buy their clothing until they had seen me. I have had men stand and discuss my clothes for
hours, making up their minds about the spring fashions. These city authorities little know
what they are doing. But what do they care? Look at their clothes and tell me how many of them
fit. What is it to them that a public man and benefactor lies here in a pile of collar boxes?
They say that the old ideas that admitted of my standing on the sidewalk are done away with,
and that this is an age of progress. What sort of progress is this, that takes a man who has
been prominent before the people for years and dumps him into a dust pile? Look at me! I have
never lacked backbone. Why, I am all backbone. [He had a backbone of iron]. No man ever knew
me to get out of the way of a crowd or go with it. I have been a consistent public man with
a backbone for ten years and here I am in a dust-pile!" Here the coal scuttle slipped and my
old friend tumbled into the collar boxes with a groan. As I left him I could not help thinking
how many public men all consistency and backbone have made similar reputations with my dummy
friend by never going with or getting out of the way of the crowd, and ended by being tumbled
into the dust-bin just for the lack of a little wisdom. Alas, how like my dethroned friend
we all are, in the respect of clamoring about our opinions and wrongs long after the public
has forgotten both them and us.

       *        *        *        *        *

"This is a pretty condition for me to be in now, isn't it?" asked another old friend of mine
that I went to look after. "Why, don't you remember me? I'm the fish that always used to be
at the door as you went by." It was true, I could hardly remember him. He used to lie in state
on a board on the sidewalk on hot days, half covered with ice, and his scales looking as bright
as silver. Some mornings, I am afraid I used to catch a faint whiff of his breath, but of course
this was not to be remembered against him in his great trouble now. His troubles had greatly
changed him. From the aristocratic exclusiveness of the ice-board he had been reduced to being
strung up by a string through his gills to a nail in the wall. The brightness of his scales
was gone, and as far as rank went, he looked as ordinary as the bunch of humble hickory shad
that hung near him. "What do you think of this way of treating a fish that has come three hundred
miles from the coast to help you out in Lent? What sort of infidel authorities has this city
got, to string up the friend of repentance and reform in this sort of way? Why, such a town
as this ought to have nothing but herrings to keep Lent with, and they ought to be salt." It
was no use trying to comfort my noble friend, but I could not help thinking that, fish that
he was, he was human in finding his great trouble not so much in being strung up now, as in
having seen better days and more distinction. And very human he was, too, in taking the ill-treatment
of himself as an offence against Lent. We are so prone to take a grievance directed against
ourselves as an affront to our politics, our church, or something else to which we bear about
the same relation that a fish does to Lent.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mature young woman who stood in front of the millinery store, and whom I have seen wear
six different overcoats of various styles in one day, was among the victims of the new law.
Her figure was one of the few that may correctly be termed wiry, but it was perfect. I may
say that I have never seen a waist so slender, or a bust more perfect. But all of us have our
defects; she had hers. In a fearful wind one day I made the discovery by her being blown over.
She had no feet! I don't think she was the same woman after that terrible day, nor do I remember
that the nose, that was turned awry by the fall, was ever straightened. When I spoke to her
of the new law and her removal to a stand near the counter, she said it was a good thing. "No
woman of proper feeling," she said with some asperity, "would have borne it as long as I did.
I never wanted to stand there and be gazed at by men, it looked so bold. As for those women
of brass that like it, it is all very well, but I couldn't stand it. Admiration can never compensate
a right-minded woman for the staring of men. A woman must be very bold indeed to enjoy it.
I like this retired corner much better than out on the walk. It has a home feeling about it,
and the domestic sphere is always a true woman's choice." It was borne in upon me somehow,
as I listened to her, that a woman with a broken nose and no feet will always think the woman
with a pretty nose and two feet bold. There is a good deal in this saying if you will only
ponder over it. Ponder it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ignominiously stowed away in a back yard I saw an old friend that always brought many reflections
to my mind when exhibited on the sidewalk--a coop of chickens. The most humiliated of all my
old acquaintances--a dominiquer rooster--had his head up through the slats to explain the situation.
"Here's a pretty howdy do!" he remarked. "What sort of treatment is this? I can't see anything
here except old whiskey barrels and clothes lines and dry goods boxes. I can hardly tell when
it is daybreak in this miserable old yard. Why, this morning I commenced crowing two hours
too soon, and a Chinaman over there raised the window and fired a tin can at my head. I can't
attend to my business in a place like this; there is another rooster around the corner been
crowing all day and I can't get at him. Look you, I'm no common rooster; I'm no chicken just
raised for the Town Authorities to eat; I'm a warrior. Just look at these legs and these spurs--."
And just as my friend was struggling to get his foot up through the slats, a washwoman in the
second story emptied her soapsuds over the coop. He disappeared under the shower, amid the
wild screaming of the hens. A moment later a bedraggled head, with one eye closed by suds,
looked out through the side bars and remarked in a saddened voice--"I suppose the city authorities
would be satisfied now--if they could see this." The sudden change in my old friend from a
warrior to a bundle of wet feathers shocked me into graver thoughts.

Somehow, I have never seen a coop of chickens in all its glory on the sidewalk, that I did
not think of the French Revolution and the Bastile. You have seen the picture--I cannot think
of the painter's name now--of the members of the old regime in the prison amusing themselves,
not knowing whose name was to be called next for the guillotine? To me there is a miniature
human world in a chicken coop. All under sentence of death, and all eating and drinking, and
clucking and crowing as if they were going to last forever. All scrambling and fighting over
the grains of daily corn, even though the hand of the fatal purchaser is already descending
into the mouth of the coop. Like their human brethren who do not wear feathers, the tallest
and the strongest gets his head up through the slats and gets wider views of the world. He
often mistakes the single street he can see for the Universe and crows out his discovery until
he is picked out of the coop and hurried off to lose his head, an operation which teaches him
that in fact he has discovered nothing. How like his brother, man!

All his speculations, all his telescopic philosophies, all his discoveries, find plausible
support until he stumbles on an open grave. There, man and chickens are dumb. Somehow, those
who write and talk about the future never impress me so much with how much they know, as with
how little. How absolutely nothing they can tell. How echoless is the Awful Silence into which
they toss their petty pebbles of theories and hopes and speculations. It seems to me that if
it were not for that sensitive disc, the Conscience, which conveys to us the 'still small voice,'
from a country far beyond the reach of our petty theories, the Silence that envelops this planet
would be intolerable. It is unbroken even by the second great event of Life--Death. It must
be a strange sight viewed from elsewhere--this terrestrial chicken coop of ours, so small that
if each of its inhabitants were to touch hands they would make a ring around it, sailing through
the unbroken silence of Space. A thin crust over a molten centre whirling at a thousand miles
an hour. A collision, a jar, just enough to move it out of its orbit would wreck it--its surface
covered with ignorant human chickens, knowing neither where they came from nor where they are
going to, scratching, fighting, crowing, clucking, smoothing their feathers in vanity, and
cocking their telescopes at the firmament in hungry curiosity! It is a sight that must make
the Angels weep.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN XIII

Ah, here you are again! What; you don't remember me? Why, I remember you. It was last Christmas,
don't you know, in this store? You were buying a mustache-cup--there now, don't blush; perhaps
it was slippers, or a smoking-cap. Anyhow, it was for him. Ah; so you do remember me. But why
do you call him Mr. Smith, now? It was Jack, then. You never regarded him as anything but a
friend? Of course not; but, my dear, when young people begin to look upon each other as friends--you
see I accent it right--it is very apt to be the overture to a very difficult opera which is
as likely to end with the curtain descending to the strains of slow music as any other way.
I like to see the young interchanging gifts at holiday times, but I might be allowed to suggest,
as the result of the observation of an old man, be careful of what you write in sending them.
You have seen pictures of Cupid--so healthful, so chubby and rosy, and such promise of long
life. It is a mistake; I know of no greater invalid--none of the gods whose health is so frail.
I have known a cold word to give him a fatal chill. I have seen him fly, never to return, from
a mere scent--a cigarette breath. I have known him taken incurably ill at the bad fit of a
Jersey or the set of an overcoat. And I have seen him lie down and die without a word and nobody
ever knew the reason why; even if he knew it himself, which I very much doubt. So, you see,
it will be a very wise precaution in dealing with such an uncertain god to be prepared for
everything. And one preparation is to be careful of what you put on paper. Many a young girl
and many a young man, in an effort to write their little notes, sending or receiving holiday
presents, often overstep the mark in trying to strike the proper elevated key. Don't abound
in literary gush, no matter what are your sentiments in giving or receiving; if you write at
all, write a plain, brief, dignified note which you can read five years after with perfect
satisfaction. Notes are often misunderstood, sometimes we don't exactly understand ourselves
when we write them, and so it is always safer to be on the conservative side. It will often
save a good deal of vain regret and many wishes to goodness that you had taken this advice.

       *       *       *       *       *

And you here too! Going to surprise your husband with a present again? A copy of the Revised
Version this time? Ah, that will give him a chance to give you a surprise next Christmas--by
reading it. Ah, you should know Mrs. Boyzy, if you wish to know how to please your husband
at Christmas. For now thirty years that estimable woman has opened her annual Christmas campaign
on me as early as the month of October. With affectionate strategy I am lured into book stores,
and variety stores, and china stores--last year she tolled me into a drug store--to discover
by artful references to this thing and that, what I fancy. Now, as a matter of fact, having
her, I fancy nothing else (I take it that the newest married man could get off nothing prettier
than that), but I have become so used to the campaign, and also so unprincipled in my advices
to shorten it, that I profess the liveliest admiration over about the second thing we come
to. The result is that I often get presents of a novel character. Last year I got a hand-painted
coal scuttle, and but a couple of Christmases before that, I had gotten a gaudily framed picture
of some retired saint, who had been martyred and for all I know deservedly so. But the fashion
of drug stores keeping holiday presents, once came near exposing my whole plan of self defence.
My intense admiration of a handsomely ornamented cut glass bottle of Unfailing Lotion for Neuralgia,
which I thought she was pointing out--when in fact she was trying to make me see a gorgeous
dressing case--excited a suspicion even in her unsuspecting mind. But if I jest about this
matter, it is not that I underestimate the sweetness of the practice of married people remembering
each other at Christmas. I am not so sure that of all other gifts--not even excepting those
to children--these are not the most disinterested and spring from the truest affection. It
is no easy feat to have lived with a man for ten, fifteen, twenty years; to know his weakness
thoroughly; to measure the wide distance from the heroic stature for which we took him, and
the size into which thorough knowledge shrinks him; to have borne with all his eccentricities,
his fault finding, his natural selfishness; to have discovered and to have known for years
that he is after all like the rest of us only human, and yet at every recurring Christmas to
send our affections back to the beginning and with a fresh and unimpaired love give him the
mystic password of our hearts in a gift. If I sometimes laugh at the devices of my wife to
find out what it is I want, I do not have the faintest smile at the patient and loving heart
that inspires them. I do not know that I ever saw an angel, but, though her hair is tinged
with gray, and youth has long since left her face, I never hear my wife, with her bright smile
on Christmas morning, asking the old, girlish question, "What do you think I've got for you,"
that I don't see in it that sort of absolution for the past and benediction for the future
which it is said only angels bring.

       *       *       *       *       *

