The varieties of lashings, seizings, whippings, and servings are almost innumerable, but a
few of the best and most frequently used are the "Wedding Knot" or "Rose Lashing," the "Deadeye
Lashing," the "Belaying-pin Splice," the "Necklace Tie," the "Close Band," and "End Pointings."
The rose lashing (Fig. 97) is used to join two eyes or ropes finished with loops. The deadeye
lashing (Fig. 98) is frequently used on ships' standing rigging and is a familiar sight to
every one who has seen a sailing-vessel. It consists of a small line reeved back and forth
through the holes in the "deadeyes," A; the ends are then seized to the standing rigging to
prevent slipping. This lashing admits of easy and rapid lengthening or shortening of the rigging
and is particularly useful in connection with wire cable. A similar method may be used with
loops instead of deadeyes (Fig. 99). The belaying-pin splice, shown in Fig. 100, is a quick
and handy way of fastening two ropes together and is of great value when rigging is carried
away and some quick method of joining the severed ends is required. Pass a belaying-pin or
similar toggle through an eye or loop in one end of a rope and pass this through a loop or
eye in the broken rope end. Form a loop in the other broken end, slip the free end of the lanyard
through this and around another toggle or pin and haul taut; then fasten by half-hitches around
standing part (A, Fig. 100), or by seizing (B, Fig. 100). This is a strong, reliable fastening
and can be tightened up or instantly thrown off at will.

The necklace tie is useful in holding two ropes, hawsers, or timbers side by side (Fig. 101).
The lashing is passed around and around the two objects to be joined and the ends secured by
a square knot passed around the band lengthwise. The close band is used for the same purposes
as the last and is made in the same manner, but the ends are fastened by drawing through beneath
the turns (Fig. 102).

End pointings are very useful as well as ornamental, for while an ordinary seizing or whipping
will prevent the strands from unravelling, the ends are broad and clumsy and oftentimes are
too large to pass through a block or eye large enough for the rest of the rope. The ordinary
way of pointing a rope is to first whip as described (Fig. 4), and then unlay the end as for
the Flemish eye. Take out about two-thirds of the yarns and twist each in two. Take two parts
of different yarns and twist together with finger and thumb, keeping the lay on the yarn and
thus forming left-handed stuff known as "nettles." Comb out the rest of the yarn with a knife,
leaving a few to lay back upon the rope. Now pass three turns of twine like a timber-hitch
tightly around the part where the nettles separate and fasten the twine, and while passing
this "warp" lay the nettles backward and forward with each turn. The ends are now whipped with
twine or yarn and finally "snaked," which is done by taking the end under and over the outer
turns of the seizing alternately. If the rope is small a stick is often put in the upper part
to strengthen it or the tip maybe finished with a small eye. If properly done a pointed rope
is very handsome and appears as in B, Fig. 103. Another simple way of finishing a rope end
is to seize the end, as at A, Fig. 104, and open out the strands, bring the strands back alongside
the rope, and whip the whole (Fig. 105).

Splicing is, in many cases, more useful and better than tying or bending ropes together and
a good splice always looks neater and more ship-shape than a knot, no matter how well-made
it may be. A person familiar with splicing will turn in a splice almost as quickly as the ordinary
man can tie a secure knot, and in many cases, where the rope must pass through sheaves or blocks,
a splice is absolutely necessary to fasten two ropes or two parts of a parted rope together.
The simplest of all splices is known as the "Short Splice" (Fig. 106). This is made as follows:
Untwist the ends of the rope for a few inches and seize with twine to prevent further unwinding,
as shown at A, A; also seize the end of each strand to prevent unravelling and grease or wax
the strands until smooth and even. Now place the two ends of the ropes together as shown at
B, B. Then with a marline-spike, or a pointed stick, work open the strand 1 c, and through
this pass the strand A of the other rope; then open strand 2 and pass the next strand of the
other rope through it and then the same way with the third strand. Next open up the strands
of the other rope, below the seizing, and pass the strands of the first rope through as before,
3 A, B. The ropes will now appear as in Fig. 106, D. Now untwist the six strands and cut away
about half the yarns from each and seize the ends as before; pass these reduced strands through
under the whole strands of the rope--the strands of the left under the strands of the right
rope and vice versa--for two or three lays and then cut off projecting ends, after drawing
all as tight as you can. If an extra-neat splice is desired the strands should be gradually
tapered as you proceed, and in this way a splice but little larger than the original diameter
of the rope will result. The only difficulty you will find in making this splice is in getting
the strands to come together in such a way that two strands will not run under the same strand
of the opposite rope. To avoid this, bear in mind that the first strand must be passed over
the strand which is first next to it and through under the second and out between the second
and third. In the following operations the strands are passed over the third and under the
fourth; but the figures will make this perfectly clear. A far better and stronger splice is
the "Long Splice," which will run through any block or tackle which will admit the rope itself;
indeed, a well-made long splice cannot be distinguished from the rope itself after a few days'
use (Fig. 107). To make this useful splice, unlay the ends of the rope about four times as
much as for the short splice, or from four to five feet, unlay one strand in each rope for
half as much again; place the middle strands together as at A, then the additional strands
will appear as at B and C, and the spiral groove, left where they were unlaid, will appear
as at D and E. Take off the two central strands, F and G, and lay them into the grooves, D,
E, until they meet B and C, and be sure and keep them tightly twisted while so doing. Then
take strands H and J, cut out half the yarns in each, make an overhand knot in them and tuck
the ends under the next lays as in a short splice. Do the same with strands B, C and F, G;
dividing, knotting, and sticking the divided strands in the same way. Finally stretch the rope
tight, pull and pound and roll the splice until smooth and round, and trim off all loose ends
close to the rope.

An "Eye Splice" (Fig. 108) is very easy to make and is useful and handy in a great variety
of ways. It is made in the same manner as the short splice, but instead of splicing the two
ends together, the end of the rope is unlaid and then bent around and spliced into its own
strands of the standing part, as shown in the illustration. A "Cut Splice" (Fig. 109) is made
just as an eye splice or short splice, but instead of splicing two ropes together end to end,
or splicing an end into a standing part, the ends are lapped and each is spliced into the standing
part of the other, thus forming a loop or eye in the centre of a rope. Once the short and long
splices are mastered, all other splices, as well as many useful variations, will come easy.
Oftentimes, for example, one strand of a rope may become worn, frayed, or broken, while the
remaining strands are perfectly sound. In such cases the weak strand may be unlaid and cut
off and then a new strand of the same length is laid up in the groove left by the old strand
exactly as in a long splice; the ends are then tapered, stuck under the lay, as in a short
splice, and the repair is complete; and if well done will never show and will be as strong
as the original rope.

CHAPTER VII

FANCY KNOTS AND ROPE WORK

The knots and splices described above are all more for practical use than ornament, although
such shortenings as the Single and Double plaits, the Chain knots, the Twofold, Fourfold, and
Sixfold knots, and others are often used for ornamental purposes only. A certain class of knots
are, however, really ornamental and seldom serve to fasten two ropes together, or to make any
object fast to another. They are, however, very useful in many ways, especially aboard ship,
and they are so handsome and interesting that every one interested in rope work should learn
to make them. The simplest of the fancy knots is known as the "Single Crown" (Fig. 110). To
form this knot unlay the strands of a new, flexible rope for six to eight inches and whip the
ends of each strand, as well as the standing part, to prevent further untwisting. Hold the
rope in your left hand and fold one strand over and away from you, as shown in A, Fig. 111.
Then fold the next strand over A (see B, Fig. 111), and then, while holding these in place
with thumb and finger, pass the strand C over strand B, and through the bight of A as shown
in the illustration. Now pull all ends tight and work the bights up smooth and snug; cut off
ends and the knot is complete. This single crown is a very poor knot to stand by itself, however,
and is mainly valuable as a basis for other more complicated knots and for ending up rope.
To end up a rope with a crown it is merely necessary to leave the projecting ends long and
then by bringing them down tuck under the strands of the standing part, as shown in Fig. 112.
Then halve the strands and tuck again, as in making a short splice, until the result appears
as in Fig. 113. This makes a neat, handy, and ship-shape finish to a rope's end and is very
useful for painters, halyards, etc. It will never work loose like a seizing and is quickly
put on at any time, whereas to make a seizing one must be provided with small stuff of some
sort, and this is frequently not at hand. The "Wall Knot" (Fig. 114) is almost as simple as
the crown, and in fact is practically a crown reversed. In making this knot bring C downward
and across the standing part; then bring A over C and around standing part and finally bring
B over A and up through bight of C, Fig. 115. When drawn snug the ends may be trimmed off close
or they may be tucked and tapered as in the crown and will then appear as in Fig. 116. As in
the case of the crown knot, the wall is mainly of value as an ending when ends are tucked,
or as a basis for more ornamental knots such as the "Wall and Crown," or "Double Wall," or
"Double Crown." It is also very largely used in making "Shroud Knots" (Fig. 117). The common
shroud knot is made by opening up the strands of a rope's end as for a short splice and placing
the two ends together in the same way. Then single "wall" the strands of one rope around the
standing part of another against the lay, taper the ends, and tuck and serve all with yarn
or marline (Fig. 118). The "French Shroud Knot" is far neater and better, but is a little harder
to make. Open up the strands and place closely together as for the short splice; make a loop
of strand A, pass the end of B through the bight of A, as at C, make a loop of strand D, and
pass the end of strand A through it as at D; then pass the end of strand D through the bight
of strand B and one side is complete. Repeat the operation on the other side, draw all ends
taut, and taper and tuck the ends. The whole should then be served carefully and the finished
knot will appear as in Fig. 120.

Double wall and double crown as well as the beautiful double wall-and-crown knots are made
exactly like the single crown or wall but instead of trimming off or tucking the ends they
are carried around a second time following the lay of the first, as shown in Fig. 121, which
shows the construction of a double crown at A, and a double wall at B. When finished, the ends
may be tucked or trimmed and the two knots will look like Figs. 122 and 123. A far better effect
is obtained by "Crowning" a wall knot. This is done by first making a single wall knot and
then by bringing strand A up over the top and laying B across A and bringing C over B and through
the bight of A; a crown knot is formed above the wall, as shown in Figs. 124 and 125. This
is the foundation of the most beautiful of rope-end knots, known as the "Double Wall and Crown,"
or "Manrope Knot," illustrated in Fig. 126. Make your single wall and crown it, but leave the
strands all slack; then pass the ends up and through the bights of the slack single-wall knot
and then push them alongside the strands in the single crown; pushing them through the same
bight in the crown and downward through the walling. This may seem quite difficult, but if
you have learned the wall and crown you will find it simple enough, for it is really merely
"following" the strands of the single wall and crown. The result, if properly done, and ends
drawn tight and cut off closely, is surprising, and to the uninitiated most perplexing, for
if the ends are tapered and tucked through the standing part of the ropes, as shown in Fig.
127, there will be no sign of a beginning or ending to this knot. This is probably the most
useful of decorative knots and is largely used aboard ship for finishing the ends of rope railings,
the ends of man-ropes, for the ends of yoke-lines and to form "stoppers" or "toggles" to bucket
handles, slings, etc. Its use in this way is illustrated in Figs. 128-130, which show how to
make a handy topsail-halyard toggle from an eye splice turned in a short piece of rope and
finished with a double wall and crown at the end. These toggles are very useful about small
boats, as they may be used as stops for furling sails, for slings around gaffs or spars, for
hoisting, and in a variety of other ways which will at once suggest themselves to the boating man.

The most difficult of ending knots and one which you should certainly learn is the "Matthew
Walker" (Fig. 131), also known as the "Stopper Knot." To form this splendid knot, pass one
strand around the standing part of the rope and through its own bight, then pass B underneath
and through bight of A and through its own bight also; next pass C underneath and around and
through the bights of A, B, and its own bight. The knot will now appear as in Fig. 132, but
by carefully hauling the ends around and working the bight taut a little at a time the knot
will assume the appearance shown in Fig. 133. This is a handsome and useful knot and is widely
used on ends of ropes where they pass through holes, as for bucket handles, ropes for trap-door
handles, chest handles, etc. The knot is well adapted for such purposes, as it is hard, close,
and presents an almost flat shoulder on its lower side.

The "Turk's Head," Figs. 135 and 136, is a knot much used aboard yachts and warships and is
so handsome and ornamental that it is a great favorite. It is used in ornamenting rigging,
in forming shoulders or rings on stays or ropes to hold other gear in place, to ornament yoke
lines, and for forming slip-collars on knife lanyards. It is also used to form collars around
stanchions or spars, and, placed around a rope close beneath a man-rope knot, it gives a beautiful
finish. When made of small line sailors often use the Turk's Head as a neckerchief fastener.
Although so elaborate in effect, it is really an easy knot to make, and while you may have
difficulty in getting it right at first a little patience and practice will enable you to become
proficient and capable of tying it rapidly and easily in any place or position. To make a Turk's
Head, have a smooth, round stick, or other object, and some closely twisted or braided small
line. Pass two turns of the line around the rod, A, Fig. 135, from left to right, and pass
the upper bight down through the lower and reeve the upper end down through it, as at B. Then
pass the bight up again and run the end over the lower bight and up between it and the upper
bight. Turn the upper bight again through the lower one and pass the end over what is now the
upper bight and between it and the lower, C, Fig. 135. Now work from left to right, following
the lay of the knot (or, in other words, passing your long end alongside the first end), D,
Fig. 135, until a braid of two or more lays is completed, as shown in Fig. 136. The Turk's
Head may be drawn as tight as desired around the rope, or rod, by working up the slack and
drawing all bights taut. A variation of the knot may be formed by making the first part as
described and then by slipping the knot to the end of the rod; work one side tighter than the
other until the "Head" forms a complete cap, as shown in Fig. 137. This makes a splendid finish
for the ends of flagpoles, stanchions, etc.

Ropes that are to be used as hand-lines, stanchions, man-ropes, railings, or in fact wherever
a neat appearance counts, are usually wormed, served, and parcelled. Worming consists in twisting
a small line into the grooves between the strands of rope, A, Fig. 138. This fills up the grooves
and makes the rope smooth and ready for serving or parcelling. Parcelling consists in covering
the rope already wormed with a strip of canvas wound spirally around it with the edges overlapping,
B, Fig. 138. Serving is merely wrapping the rope with spun yarn, marline, or other small stuff,
C, Fig. 138. Although this may all be done by hand, yet it can be accomplished far better by
using a "Serving Mallet," shown in D, Fig. 138. This instrument enables you to work tighter
and more evenly than by hand, but in either case you must have the rope to be served stretched
tightly between two uprights. Often a rope is served without parcelling and for ordinary purposes
parcelling is not required. A variation of serving is made by "half-hitch" work, as shown in
Figs. 139-140. This is very pretty when well done and is very easy to accomplish. Take a half-hitch
around the rope to be served, then another below it; draw snug; take another half-hitch and
so on until the object is covered and the series of half-hitch knots forms a spiral twist,
as shown in the illustrations. Bottles, jugs, ropes, stanchions, fenders, and numerous other
articles may be covered with half-hitch work; and as you become more expert you will be able
to use several lines of half-hitches at the same time. Four-strand braiding is also highly
ornamental and is easy and simple. The process is illustrated in Fig. 141, and consists in
crossing the opposite strands across and past one another, as shown in A, B, C, Fig 141. Still
more ornamental is the "Crown-braid" which appears, when finished, as in Fig. 143. The process
of forming this braid is exactly like ordinary crowning and does not require any description;
it may be done with any number of strands, but four or six are usually as many as the beginner
cares to handle at one time.

