Such, then, is a brief outline of the main historical facts in this controversy, and it is
worthy of note, as remarked, that for the first 400 years of the Christian era the Calvinistic
system of theology was unknown to the Christian church. It began, as we have seen, with Augustine,
and being adopted by Calvin was widely spread in those countries which received at the Reformation
Protestant principles. It comprehends truths of vast value to man, but which are not peculiar
to it. They are held as firmly by opponents as by the followers of Calvin; such, for instance,
as the inspiration of the Bible, the doctrine of the Trinity, the inability of man to work
out a glory meriting righteousness, justification by faith alone, and the necessity of the
Spirit's work in regeneration. As in the Church of Rome, there have also been ranged under
the banner of the Genevan divine men of the most varied accomplishments and the most saintly
character. But men are often better than their professed creed, and often worse. As a system
it has passed its meridian, and although ministers and elders are still required to profess
their faith in its peculiarities, it has lost its hold on the popular mind. Mr. Froude, in
his celebrated address to the St. Andrew's students, said, "After being accepted for two centuries
in all Protestant countries as the final account of the relations between man and his Maker,
Calvinism has come to be regarded by liberal thinkers as a system of belief incredible in itself,
dishonouring to its object, and as intolerable as it has been itself intolerant. To represent
man as sent into the world under a curse, as incurably wicked--wicked by the constitution of
his flesh, and wicked by eternal decree; as doomed (unless exempted by special grace, which
he cannot merit, or by an effort of his own obtain), to live in sin while he remains on earth,
and to be eternally miserable when he leaves it; to represent him as born unable to keep the
commandments, yet as justly liable to everlasting punishment for breaking them, is alike repugnant
to reason and to conscience, and turns existence into a hideous nightmare. To deny the freedom
of the will is to make morality impossible: to tell men that they cannot help themselves, is
to fling them into recklessness and despair. To what purpose the effort to be virtuous, when
it is an effort which is foredoomed to fail; when those that are saved are saved by no effort
of their own and confess themselves the worst of sinners, even when rescued from the penalties
of sin; and those that are lost are lost by an everlasting sentence decreed against them before
they were born? How are we to call the Ruler who laid us under this iron code by the name of
wise, and just, or merciful, when we ascribe principles of action to Him which, as a human
father, we should call preposterous and monstrous?" Error, however, like disease, is not easily
eradicated; but as men get better acquainted with God, those dark and heathenish conceptions
regarding him entertained by Calvinists, such as the foredooming of children and men to endless
misery, will give place to nobler thoughts of the Author of our being.

In 1879 the United Presbyterian Church adopted what is known as the "Declaratory Act," which
is a clear departure from the rigid Calvinism of the Confession of Faith. In this declaration
God's love is said to be world-wide, and the propitiation of Christ to be for the "sins of
the whole world." They hold the Confession dogmas in harmony with the Declaratory Act, but
it is an attempt to put the new cloth on the old garment, or the new wine into the old bottles.
It is impossible that God can love the whole world, and yet foredoom millions to be lost. The
two views are destructive of each other. This church, one of the most intelligent in the country,
cannot stand where it now is. It is bound to go forward.

THE word "predestinate" signifies, according to the Imperial Dictionary, "to predetermine or
foreordain," "to appoint or ordain beforehand by an unchangeable purpose." The noun, according
to the same authority, denotes the act of decreeing or foreordaining events; the act of God,
by which He hath from eternity unchangeably appointed or determined whatsoever comes to pass.
It is used particularly in theology to denote the preordination of men to everlasting happiness
or misery. The term is used four times in the New Testament, and comes from the Greek word
proorizo, which signifies, "to determine beforehand," "to predetermine" (Liddell and Scott).
Robinson gives as its meaning, "to set bounds before," "to predetermine," "spoken of the eternal
decrees and counsels of God." According to the lexicographers, the meaning--as far as the word
is concerned--is plain enough. It is quite clear from the Scriptures that God predestinates
or foreordains. This is admitted on all sides. But here the questions arise--What is the nature
of God's predestination? and does it embrace all events? The Confession of Faith gives the
following deliverance on the subject--"God from all eternity did, by the most wise and holy
counsel of His own will, freely and unchangeably foreordain whatsoever comes to pass." The
Larger and Shorter Catechisms express the same idea. This was the opinion of the Westminster
divines, and is the professed faith of Presbyterians in general in Scotland. One of the most
eminent theologians of the school of Calvin--Dr. C. Hodge--vindicates this deliverance of the
Assembly. He says, "The reason; therefore, why any event occurs, or that passes from the category
of the possible into that of the actual, is that God has so decreed" (Vol. I., p. 531). He
says again, "The Scriptures teach that sinful acts, as well as those which are holy, are foreordained"
(Vol. I., p. 543). And, again, "The acts of the wicked in persecuting the early Church were
ordained of God, as the means of the wider and more speedy proclamation of the Gospel" (Vol.
I., p. 544). He says, moreover, "Whatever happens God intended should happen, that to Him nothing
can be unexpected, and nothing contrary to His purposes" (Vol. II., p 335). The same writer,
in speaking of the usage of the term "predestination," remarks, "It may be used first in the
general sense of foreordination. In this sense it has equal reference to all events, for God
foreordains whatsoever comes to pass:" It will thus be seen that the Confession, and the Catechisms,
and Hodge, as one of the most eminent expounders of these formularies, uphold the doctrine,
that everything which happens was foreordained by God to happen. The doctrine as thus stated
is clearly the foundation of the whole system of Calvinism. If this is shaken, the entire structure
topples to its base. Being so important, its advocates have sought to strengthen it by appealing
to the Divine attributes and to passages from holy writ. Let us then examine their arguments
derived from the attributes, and the texts they have adduced.

CHAPTER II.

CALVINISTIC PREDESTINATION IN REFERENCE TO DIVINE WISDOM.

THE wisdom of God is held as proving universal foreordination. Being infinitely wise--such
is the argument--He will act upon a plan, as in creation, and as wise people do in regard to
affairs in general. And this is perfectly correct. The question, however, is not whether God
has a plan, but what that plan comprehends? Sin being a factor in the programme of life, the
Divine wisdom or plan will be exercised in reference to it. There are two ways in which this
may be done. It may be foreordained as part of the plan, as is seen in the above extracts.
But another way is this: The Divine wisdom may be exercised in regard to sin, not as ordaining
it, but as overruling it, and in turning it to account. That the evil deeds of men bring into
view features of the Divine character which would not otherwise have been seen, is no doubt
true, but this does not save the wrong-doers from the severest blame. But what is wisdom? It
is the choosing of the best means to effect a good end. The ultimate end of creation is the
glory of God, as He is the highest and the best of beings.

Men are asked to give Him their trust and love. It is right that they should do so, for He
is infinitely worthy of them. But what are sinful actions? Essentially they are foolish, and
issue in misery. And if God foreordained them, how can we esteem Him as wise and good? And
if not to our intelligence wise and good, how can we give Him our confidence and love? Trust
and love are based upon the perception of the true and the good. If I find a man who is destitute
of these qualities of character, to love him with approval is, as I am constituted, an impossibility.
But to ordain the "acts of the wicked," as Hodge says that God did, in order to spread Christianity,
was neither just nor good. It was doing evil that good might come. Instead of being wise it
was, if it were so, an exhibition of unwisdom as regards the very end of creation, as it was
fitted to drive men away from, instead of bringing them to, God. And yet wisdom, Divine wisdom,
was exercised in reference to those very persecutions. It was true, as Tertullian said, that
the "blood of the martyrs was the seed of the Church." By means of the sufferings of the early
Christians men's minds were directed to that religion which supported its adherents in the
midst of their accumulated sorrows. Their patience, their heroic bravery in facing grim death,
threw a halo of moral glory around the martyrs which touched the hearts of true men who lived
in the midst of general degeneration. The Christians were driven from their homes, but they
carried the truth with them.

"The seeds of truth are bearded, and adhere we know not when, we know not where." In the world
of nature there are seeds with hooks, and others have wings to be wafted by the breeze to their
proper habitat. And if Divine wisdom watches over the seeds of the vegetable kingdom, does
it not stand to reason that it will do so in regard to truth? God overrules the evil, and makes
it the occasion of good. Joseph was immured in jail, but from it he ascended to a seat next
the throne. Christ was crucified, but from the blessed cross came streams of blessing. Paul
was incarcerated, but from his prison came "thoughts that breathe and words that burn," that
have kept alive the flame of piety for more than a thousand years. The people of God still
suffer, but, like the asbestos cloth when thrown into the fire, they, by these sufferings,
become purified and made meet for the coming glory. In thus overruling evil, God, we say, shows
the highest wisdom and love fitted to secure our trust and affection; but to ordain evil would
be an illustration of supreme folly, fitted to lower him in the estimation of angels and of men.

THE POWER OF GOD is held as supporting universal foreordination. As in the case of wisdom,
God's power must be recognised as infinite. It is true, indeed, that creation does not prove
this, since it is limited, and no conclusion can be more extensive than the premises. But looking
at the nature and multitude of His works, we cannot resist the conviction that there is nothing
(which does not imply a contradiction) that is "too hard for the Lord." He is infinite in power.
But the power of God is guided by His wisdom and His love, just as is the power of a good and
a wise king. In governing His creation, it stands to reason that He will govern each creature
according to its nature--brute matter by physical law, animals by instinct, and man in harmony
with his rational constitution. God does not reason with a stone, or plead with a brute; but
He does so with man. "Come, now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord" (Isa. i. 18).
It would be absurd to punish a block of granite because it was not marble, or to condemn the
horse because he could not understand a problem in Euclid. To do so would be to treat the creatures
by a law not germane to their nature. It is, indeed, a radical vice in Calvinistic reasoning
that, because God is omnipotent, He can as easily therefore create virtue in a free being as
He can waft the down of the thistle on the breeze. It is quite true that "whatsoever the Lord
pleased that did He in heaven and in earth" (Ps. cxxxv. 6). But the question is--What is His
pleasure in regard to the production of virtue? Is it a forced or free thing? Every good man
will cheerfully ascribe to God the praise of his (the good, man's) virtue. God gave him his
constitution; God's Spirit brought to bear on him the motives of a holy life. Had there been
no Spirit, there would have been no holy life. Yet there is a sense in which the personal righteousness
of the good man is his own righteousness. It consists in right acts, in right acts as regards
God and as regards man. God told him what to do, and when he did it the acts became his acts,
and were not the acts of God, nor of any other. When he does the thing that was right, he is
commended--when he does not, he is blamed. Conversing one day with a Calvinistic clergyman,
he intimated that a certain person had declared that the only thing stronger than God in the
world was the human will. We remarked that we did not approve of such a mode of expression.
And rightly so. It implies a confusion of ideas, confounding physical power which is almighty,
and moral power, which is suasory and resistible. Stephen charged the Jews with resisting the
Spirit. (Acts vii. 51). Because they resisted him, would it be right to say that they were
physically stronger than God? We replied to the clergyman that we supposed that the person
who used the expression meant that God did not get people to do what He wished. The reply was
that we were equally wrong. We then asked, "Do you think that God wishes people to keep His
law?" He refused to answer the question. But why would he not? Aye, why? He was in this dilemma:
If he said that He did wish them to keep His law, he would have been met by the question, Why
then does He not make them do so? Everywhere the law is broken. If he said that God did not
wish them to keep His law, would not this have been to put the Holy One on a level with the
great enemy of man? This brings out the idea that whilst God is possessed of infinite power,
in the exercise of that power He has respect to the constitution of man in the production of
virtue. He does not override the constitution, and treat it as if it were a nullity. To do
so would be absurd, for forced virtue is not virtue at all. God is all-powerful, but He is
also ALL-WISE.

CHAPTER IV.

PREDESTINATION CONSIDERED WITH REFERENCE TO DIVINE FOREKNOWLEDGE.

THE FOREKNOWLEDGE of God is held as evidence that He has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass.
He foreknows, so it is argued, but He does so because He has foreordained. Calvin says, "Since
He (God) doth not otherwise foresee the things that shall come to pass than because He hath
decreed that they should so come to pass, it is vain to move a controversy about foreknowledge,
when it is certain that all things do happen rather by ordinance and commandment" (B. iii.)
Toplady says "that God foreknows futurities, because by His predestination He hath rendered
their futurition certain and inevitable." Bonar says, "God foreknows everything that takes
place, because he Has fixed it" (Truth and Error, p. 50). The same doctrine is held by the
younger Hodge--that foreknowledge involves foreordination.

There have been some who have denied the infinitude of God's knowledge, notably Dr. Adam Clarke.
He held that God, although possessed of omnipotence, yet as He chooses not to do all things,
so also although He possesses the power of knowing all things, yet He chooses to be ignorant
of some things. In refuting this notion, Dr. Hodge remarks, "But this is to suppose that God
wills not to be God, that the Infinite wills to be finite. Knowledge in God is not founded
on His will, except so far as the knowledge of vision is concerned--i.e., His knowledge of
His own purposes, or what He has decreed shall come to pass. If not founded on His will it
cannot be limited by it. Infinite knowledge must know all things actual or possible" (Vol.
I., p. 546). Although the motive underlying Clarke's argument is good, yet it is not wise to
sacrifice the Divine intelligence to the Divine goodness. God is the infinitely perfect one,
but to suppose that He is ignorant of what will happen tomorrow is to limit His perfections,
and make Him a dependent being. But neither can we accept the Calvinistic doctrine, that God
foreknows because He has foreordained. This, properly speaking, is not foreknowledge, but after
knowledge, since it comes after the decree. It is, moreover, simply assertion. It is not a
self-evident proposition, and is neither backed by reason nor Scripture. The great difficulty,
however, with our Calvinistic friends is regarding certainty. If God is certain that an event
will happen, then, so it is argued, it must happen. If we deny that there is an absolute necessity
for the event as an event happening, then it is replied that God in that case was not certain.
But this is sophistical reasoning--slipshod philosophy. God was certain that the event would
happen, but He was also certain that it need not have happened. The Divine knowledge is simply
a state of the Divine intelligence, and never causes any thing. It comprehends all that is
past, all that now is, and all that will ever be. But it comprises more than this, and herein
lies the key of the mystery. It takes in the possible, or that which is never realised in the
actual. Human knowledge does this--and how much more the Divine! God knows that the thief will
steal; He is certain that he will do it, but He is also certain that he need not do it. His
being certain that the theft will take place does not necessitate the theft. It (the certainty)
exercises no controlling agency upon the wrong-doer. Dr. W. Cooke remarks, "What is involved
in necessity? It is a resistless impulse exerted for a given end. What is freedom? It involves
a self-determining power to will and to act. What is prescience? It is simply knowledge of
an event before it happens. Such being, we conceive, a correct representation of the terms,
we have to inquire, where lies the alleged incompatibility of prescience and freedom? Between
freedom and necessity there is, we admit, an absolute and irreconcilable discrepancy and opposition;
for the assertion of the one is a direct negation of the other. What is free cannot be necessitated,
and what is necessitated cannot be free. But prescience involves no such opposition. For simple
knowledge is not coercive; it is not impulse; it is not influence of any kind: it is merely
acquaintance with truth, or the mind's seeing a thing as it is. If I know the truth of a proposition
of Euclid, it is not my knowledge that makes it true. It was a truth, and would have remained
a truth, whether I knew it or not, yea, even, if I had never existed. So of any fact in history;
so of any occurrence around me. My mere knowledge of the fact did not make it fact, or exercise
any influence in causing it to be fact. So in reference to the Divine prescience; it is mere
knowledge, and is as distinct from force, constraint, or influence as any two things can be
distinct one from the other.