

"Ned," I asked him, "how can you still doubt the reality of this cetacean we're after?  Do
you have any particular reasons for being so skeptical?"

The harpooner stared at me awhile before replying, slapped his broad forehead in one of his
standard gestures, closed his eyes as if to collect himself, and finally said:

"Just maybe, Professor Aronnax."

"But Ned, you're a professional whaler, a man familiar with all the great marine mammals--your
mind should easily accept this hypothesis of an enormous cetacean, and you ought to be the
last one to doubt it under these circumstances!"

"That's just where you're mistaken, professor," Ned replied. "The common man may still believe
in fabulous comets crossing outer space, or in prehistoric monsters living at the earth's core,
but astronomers and geologists don't swallow such fairy tales. It's the same with whalers.
I've chased plenty of cetaceans, I've harpooned a good number, I've killed several.  But no
matter how powerful and well armed they were, neither their tails or their tusks could puncture
the sheet-iron plates of a steamer."

"Even so, Ned, people mention vessels that narwhale tusks have run clean through."

"Wooden ships maybe," the Canadian replied.  "But I've never seen the like.  So till I have
proof to the contrary, I'll deny that baleen whales, sperm whales, or unicorns can do any such
thing."

"Listen to me, Ned--"

"No, no, professor.  I'll go along with anything you want except that. Some gigantic devilfish
maybe . . . ?"

"Even less likely, Ned.  The devilfish is merely a mollusk, and even this name hints at its
semiliquid flesh, because it's Latin meaning soft one. The devilfish doesn't belong to the
vertebrate branch, and even if it were 500 feet long, it would still be utterly harmless to
ships like the Scotia or the Abraham Lincoln.  Consequently, the feats of krakens or other
monsters of that ilk must be relegated to the realm of fiction."

"So, Mr. Naturalist," Ned Land continued in a bantering tone, "you'll just keep on believing
in the existence of some enormous cetacean . . . ?"

"Yes, Ned, I repeat it with a conviction backed by factual logic. I believe in the existence
of a mammal with a powerful constitution, belonging to the vertebrate branch like baleen whales,
sperm whales, or dolphins, and armed with a tusk made of horn that has tremendous penetrating
power."

"Humph!" the harpooner put in, shaking his head with the attitude of a man who doesn't want
to be convinced.

"Note well, my fine Canadian," I went on, "if such an animal exists, if it lives deep in the
ocean, if it frequents the liquid strata located miles beneath the surface of the water, it
needs to have a constitution so solid, it defies all comparison."

"And why this powerful constitution?"  Ned asked.

"Because it takes incalculable strength just to live in those deep strata and withstand their
pressure."

"Oh really?"  Ned said, tipping me a wink.

"Oh really, and I can prove it to you with a few simple figures."

"Bosh!"  Ned replied.  "You can make figures do anything you want!"

"In business, Ned, but not in mathematics.  Listen to me. Well then, when you dive under the
waves, Ned, for every thirty-two feet of water above you, your body is tolerating the pressure
of one more atmosphere, in other words, one more kilogram per each square centimeter on your
body's surface. Which is tantamount to saying that if you could reach such a depth in the ocean,
each square centimeter on your body's surface would be experiencing 1,000 kilograms of pressure.
Now, my gallant Ned, do you know how many square centimeters you have on your bodily surface?"

"I haven't the foggiest notion, Professor Aronnax."

"About 17,000."

"As many as that?"

"Yes, and since the atmosphere's pressure actually weighs slightly more than one kilogram per
square centimeter, your 17,000 square centimeters are tolerating 17,568 kilograms at this very
moment."

"Without my noticing it?"

"Without your noticing it.  When the inside and outside pressures are in perfect balance, they
neutralize each other and allow you to tolerate them without discomfort.  But in the water
it's another story."

"Yes, I see," Ned replied, growing more interested. "Because the water surrounds me but doesn't
penetrate me."

"Precisely, Ned.  So at thirty-two feet beneath the surface of the sea, you'll undergo a pressure
of 17,568 kilograms; at 320 feet, or ten times greater pressure, it's 175,680 kilograms; at
3,200 feet, or 100 times greater pressure, it's 1,756,800 kilograms; finally, at 32,000 feet,
or 1,000 times greater pressure, it's 17,568,000 kilograms; in other words, you'd be squashed
as flat as if you'd just been yanked from between the plates of a hydraulic press!"

"Fire and brimstone!"  Ned put in.

"All right then, my fine harpooner, if vertebrates several hundred meters long and proportionate
in bulk live at such depths, their surface areas make up millions of square centimeters, and
the pressure they undergo must be assessed in billions of kilograms. Calculate, then, how much
resistance of bone structure and strength of constitution they'd need in order to withstand
such pressures!"

"They'd need to be manufactured," Ned Land replied, "from sheet-iron plates eight inches thick,
like ironclad frigates."

"Right, Ned, and then picture the damage such a mass could inflict if it were launched with
the speed of an express train against a ship's hull."

"Yes . . . indeed . . . maybe," the Canadian replied, staggered by these figures but still
not willing to give in.

"Well, have I convinced you?"

"You've convinced me of one thing, Mr. Naturalist.  That deep in the sea, such animals would
need to be just as strong as you say-- if they exist."

"But if they don't exist, my stubborn harpooner, how do you explain the accident that happened
to the Scotia?"

"It's maybe . . . ," Ned said, hesitating.

"Go on!"

"Because . . . it just couldn't be true!" the Canadian replied, unconsciously echoing a famous
catchphrase of the scientist Arago.

But this reply proved nothing, other than how bullheaded the harpooner could be.  That day
I pressed him no further.  The Scotia's accident was undeniable.  Its hole was real enough
that it had to be plugged up, and I don't think a hole's existence can be more emphatically
proven. Now then, this hole didn't make itself, and since it hadn't resulted from underwater
rocks or underwater machines, it must have been caused by the perforating tool of some animal.

Now, for all the reasons put forward to this point, I believed that this animal was a member
of the branch Vertebrata, class Mammalia, group Pisciforma, and finally, order Cetacea.  As
for the family in which it would be placed (baleen whale, sperm whale, or dolphin), the genus
to which it belonged, and the species in which it would find its proper home, these questions
had to be left for later. To answer them called for dissecting this unknown monster; to dissect
it called for catching it; to catch it called for harpooning it-- which was Ned Land's business;
to harpoon it called for sighting it-- which was the crew's business; and to sight it called
for encountering it-- which was a chancy business.

CHAPTER 5

At Random!

FOR SOME WHILE the voyage of the Abraham Lincoln was marked by no incident.  But one circumstance
arose that displayed Ned Land's marvelous skills and showed just how much confidence we could
place in him.

