A week after the beginning of term Helen Ross, the fortunate possessor of a double room, gave
a tea-party, with one of the younger Dons as chaperon, to which Dan Vernon and a companion
were invited. He was a man of good age, nice picture ... and its municipal judge people,
from that very empingorotado that I had met one of my blood of promise, Neluco going to the Tower of Provedaño.
The case was that by going to ride early in the morning attend the funeral of my uncle, had
delivered a letter from the court of first instance forcing him to practice some procedures as
he entertained about two hours ... all respects to "trigedia" the day before, that I should know,
and for this the truth were told, for who knew him mainly came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews,
and all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started
the desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and a black cloud of bad part
and worse road, stopped for a moment and take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same mouth
of a covachón, known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance, the
short cut between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in this municipality. Standing there
and give the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone was not tinder
the best, notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back.
  The thoughts of
each Fresher turned with an anguish of appeal towards this figure; a smile on her face raised
them to the seventh heaven; a frown laid them in the dust!  Extraordinary to think that two
short years ago this oracle had been a Fresher like themselves!  Inconceivable to imagine that
in two years to come they themselves might occupy that same magnificent altitude! 

The calculated length of the trades did not go down a minute from two hours, and when we returned
to the house after going to church, it's strange he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there,
and it has become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us acquanted with the
springs that governed this eccentric character, he was the table set up with all the grandeur
of ancestry ... and something else that had been acquired, even in the home of friends, including Don
Pedro Nolasco and physician.

On Sundays the two girls went together to King's College Chapel and gazed with admiration at
the vaulted stone roof, with its marvellous fan tracery; at its towering stained-glass windows,
and the screen bearing the monogram of Anne Boleyn; at the delicate carving of the stalls. It is easy to congratulate,
but it is unspecific and doesn't change anything. If it could give shirts to the poor or teach
religion to boys then that would be something I would do all day. It is not, but the work of my
uncle doesn't either. What do you mean?
