Dinnerless and supperless he went to his couch.  But when there he did consent to receive some
consolation in the shape of mutton cutlets and fried potatoes, a savory omelet, and a bottle
of claret. And with the fragrance came a smile. Richard had nothing
to be different. Words were impossible. He would not be found. Only in his eyes, around his mouth
was blooming all the love he felt in those seconds.

       On tiptoe he went out.

* * * * *

A week later he met Rolfers back in the bog, the forest edge sketching. He squatted on his painting
stool, awkwardly strange. On closer Rolfers noticed that the boy had been bound with twine to
the right arm on the back.

He left the sketchbook Fall when he saw Rolf on the narrow paths
nearby, and wanted to run away.

But he threw the Malschemel it around and the footstool, which he had dragged for paints and
brushes and was now ashamed, tugging at his restraint.

"Boy - twisted, great kid!"

       "I want to have anything better than you," he cried passionately,
and the tears sprang him like lightning from the bright eyes shine.

Rolfers had put his left arm around the neck and held him so that he may not like him ran.
And his cheek laid on the boy's head, hard to brush his hair.

"My boy, my dear boy!"

Nothing more was said about the case between them.

* * * * *

Martha had to do to fill with writing and cataloging and bills of lading. Luetje had Nail down boxes,
large and small, and take it to the next station. The whim of the professor was not the best.
Surly he went about the house, was to blame and scold when something was not running, as he wished.

A
large art gallery in Berlin wanted to organize an exhibition of his work, a Overview of his
work through various eras, from teenage years on. A tribute of the hero who suffered for his
country - wrote the owner.

Initially, Rolfers refused.

"Why - no one today has meaning for images. When we entered into an honorable peace have - yes,
I liked it let me. Then they can for all I care honors the dead organize
- with the laurel wreath and the Florschleife under the largest ham.
Now Is it a failure. I will not. "

Finally he was persuaded yet.
Practical considerations were decisive. With further Merit was not
expected for the future, then one had seen, as the existing convenient
to use. Now his name was still in the minds of art lovers, the museum
director. In two or three years he was forgotten, and sank the market
price of his paintings mean. So he said to himself, with hard sincerity.
And thought of Richard. He had the wherewithal to Studies are ready.

Even
to go to Berlin to oversee the hanging of pictures, plus he could
not decide. He shuddered at the world, before the public. A thousand
times already, he was glad to have been the remote homestead between
meadow and mud - here is a shelter for the time to have the dream
away, he still on earth to suffer, was forced. Is to hide, a weidwund
animal, before the compassion, the sentimentality of people was lucky.  I had the money, luckily."

"Ah! dat is better.  But he have lost hees b-?"

"Yes, yes;" I was now getting rather impatient.  "There is no mistake about it.  He has lost
them as sure as you stand there." And then I proceeded to explain that as the gentleman in
question was very stout, and as he, the landlord, was stoat also, he might assist us in this
great calamity by a loan from his own wardrobe.

When he found that the money was not in the pocket, and that his bill therefore would be paid,
he was not indisposed to be gracious. He would, he said, desire his servant to take up what
was required to Mr. Horne's chamber.  I endeavoured to make him understand that a sombre colour
would be preferable; but he only answered that he would put the best that he had at the gentleman's
disposal.  He could not think of offering anything less than his best on such an occasion.
And then he turned his back and went his way, muttering as he went something in Flemish, which
I believed to be an exclamation of astonishment that any man should, under any circumstances,
lose such an article.

It was now getting late; so when I had taken a short stroll by myself, I went to bed without
disturbing Mr. Horne again that night. Papa
must have some secret power over the two that he did not know, for even the mention of his
name seemed to herald to them fear and discomfort. Once again they were silent. They put up their
weapons. The mother went first, the Baron with her. Behind them came Edgar, but not humbly like
a servant - rather hard, harsh and unforgiving like a guard. He rattled the invisible chain
on which they shook and which could not be broken. Hatred had steeled his childish strength; he,
the ignorant one, was stronger than both of them, whose hands were
tied by their secret.

The Liar

But time was pressing.

The baron had only a few more days and wanted to make the most of them. He resisted the tenacity of
the child's excitement, felt in vain, and so they resorted to the
final, the shameful way out: to flee, to escape his tyranny even for
only one or two hours.

"Take these letters that are waiting for the post," said the mother
to Edgar.

They were both in the hall, the baron speaking outside with a taxi-driver.

Suspicious,

Edgar took the two letters.

He had noticed that earlier a servant had received a message sent
by his mother.

Were they after all preparing a conspiracy against him?

He hesitated.

"Where will you wait for me?"

"Here."

"Are
you sure?"

"Yes."

"But you mustn't go away! You'll wait for me here
in the hall until I return?"

He spoke with a sense of superiority over his mother, even imperiousness.
Since yesterday much had changed.

Then he took the two letters. At the door he met
the baron. He spoke to him for the first time in two days. "I'm only
taking the two letters. Mama is waiting for me until I return. Please
don't go out before then."

The baron answered him quickly. "Yes,
yes, of course we'll wait."

Edgar rushed to the post office. He had
to wait. A gentleman in front of him had a dozen lengthy questions.
Finally he could discharge his commission and immediately ran back
with the receipt. And came just in time to see his mother and the
baron drive away in the taxi.

He was tense with rage. He almost stooped
down and hurled a stone after them.  He carried his
head proudly on high, determined to be dignified in spite of his misfortunes, and advanced
two steps into the room without a remark, as though he were able to show that neither red plush
nor black cloth could disarrange the equal poise of his mighty mind!

And after all what are a man's garments but the outward husks in which the fruit is kept, duly
tempered from the wind?

"The rank is but the guinea stamp, The man's the gowd for a' that."

And is not the tailor's art as little worthy, as insignificant as that of the king who makes

"A marquis, duke, and a' that"?

Who would be content to think that his manly dignity depended on his coat and waistcoat, or
his hold on the world's esteem on any other garment of usual wear?  That no such weakness soiled
his mind Mr. Horne was determined to prove; and thus he entered the room with measured tread,
and stern dignified demeanour.

Having advanced two steps his eye caught mine. Very young he was such a mission. In matters of art won by a maturity of Understanding,
which was not related to his age. One of the eternal mystery in the world of natural events:
this surpassing of those called on the laws of Time and downright development ...

"Richard - you pack a suitcase. You have the day after the opening of my exhibition be in Berlin.
I give you with a letter that introduces you as my representative. What do you - happy's up? You've
got to tidy your eyes open, to give me report! Alas, Man, if you forget something important!
"

Richard stood with his mouth open - just stupid astonishment.

From the neck up he poured hot flush cheeks and forehead - and his
eyes were shining with every second.

"You - you want me but only kid - it's not true, Professor?"

Rolfers smiled.

Something like the boy's face to see now, that was adorable ...

"You see - you laugh -. But it is not true '

This came with an infinitely disappointed tone.

"Ask your mother!"

"Well, yes, Richard, the professor will give you confidence.

The day after tomorrow with the morning train you shall go. I ironed your good suit. "

Richard let out a scream that could have an Indian cries of joy called,
and made jumps in the air as his beloved foal in the pasture.

He raced upstairs and downstairs and it filled the whole house with
the roar of his stormy and Gesause Youth bliss.

Rolfers like Martha got a moment of silence to feel more until the small suitcase to the basket
cart, stood up to Richard in the eerily cool air border of the gray
morning, taking leave of his mother threw around his neck and Rolf,
who also stood was to him solemnly handed over the letter to the art
dealer, his old friend, his hand shook.

Rolf had in the letter made no secret of the fact that the young Messenger of his son was and hopefully
even his artistic heritage.

Thoughtfully, he looked like a rolling cart to, from which the boy
passionately the cap waved back as he rounded the corner. Martha was
struck by how calm and serene Rolfers three, looked at his face was
a shining peace.

She sighed. It was not peaceful at mind, and she
had all those nights her pillow moistened with many tears. But the
two that were keeping each other busy, had It ignored, however much
they complained of pain and grief associated walked beside them.

With
two orders Richard next to the main purpose of his trip had been considered.
The Professor had him in the evening taken up with the studio and
showed him a fine old gold chain.

"Look, I want to give your mother.
She has had a lot of effort and work of the matter. And I wish that
you mitbrächtest her a beautiful dress material. A soft wool, which
gentle, flowing folds is the color I thought to myself in a dark purple
like ripe Plums.riots."

I was introduced to them all, one after the other; but their names did not abide in my memory
one moment.  I was thinking too much of the singularity of the adventure, and could not attend
to such minutiae.  That the red-rosed harpy was Miss Grogram, that I remembered;--that, I may
say, I shall never forget.  But whether the motherly lady with the somewhat blowsy hair was
Mrs. Jones, or Mrs. Green, or Mrs. Walker, I cannot now say.  The dumpy female with the broad
back was always called Aunt Sally by the young ladies.

