The bulk of the Court regretted Monsieur, for it was he who set all pleasure a-going; and when
he left it, life and merriment seemed to have disappeared likewise.  Setting aside his obstinacy
with regard to the Princes, he loved the order of rank; preferences, and distinctions: he caused
them to be observed as much as possible, and himself set the example.  He loved great people;
and was so affable and polite, that crowds came to him.  The difference which he knew how to
make, and which he never failed to make, between every one according to his position, contributed
greatly to his popularity.  In his receptions, by his greater or less, or more neglectful attention,
and by his words, he always marked in a flattering manner the differences made by birth and
dignity, by age and merit, and by profession; and all this with a dignity natural to him, and
a constant facility which he had acquired.  His familiarity obliged, and yet no rash people
ever ventured to take advantage of it.  He visited or sent exactly when it was proper; and
under his roof he allowed a complete liberty, without injury to the respect shown him, or to
a perfect court air.

He had learned from the Queen his mother, and well remembered this art. The crowd, therefore,
constantly flocked towards the Palais Royal.

At Saint Cloud, where all his numerous household used to assemble, there were many ladies who,
to speak the truth, would scarcely have been received elsewhere, but many also of a higher
set, and great store of gamblers.  The pleasures of all kinds of games, and the singular beauty
of the place, where a thousand caleches were always ready to whirl even the most lazy ladies
through the walks, soft music and good cheer, made it a palace of delight, grace, and magnificence.

All this without any assistance from Madame, who dined and supped with the ladies and Monsieur,
rode out sometimes in a caleche with one of them, often sulked with the company, made herself
feared for her harsh and surly temper--frequently even for her words; and passed her days in
a little cabinet she had chosen, where the windows were ten feet from the ground, gazing perpetually
on the portraits of Paladins and other German princes, with which she had tapestried the walls;
and writing every day with her own hand whole volumes of letters, of which she always kept
autograph copies.  Monsieur had never been able to bend her to a more human way of life; and
lived decently with her, without caring for her person in any way.

For his part, Monsieur, who had very gallantly won the battle of Cassel, and who had always
shown courage in the sieges where he had served, had only the bad qualities that distinguish
women.  With more knowledge of the world than wit, with no reading, though he had a vast and
exact acquaintance with noble houses, their births and marriages, he was good for nothing.
Nobody was so flabby in body and mind, no one so weak, so timid, so open to deception, so led
by the nose, so despised by his favourites, often so roughly treated by them.  He was quarrelsome
in small matters, incapable of keeping any secret, suspicious, mistrustful; fond of spreading
reports in his Court to make mischief, to learn what was really going on or just to amuse himself:
he fetched and carried from one to the other.  With so many defects, unrelated to any virtue,
he had such an abominable taste, that his gifts and the fortunes that he gave to those he took
into favour had rendered him publicly scandalous.  He neither respected times nor places. 
His minions, who owed him everything, sometimes treated him most insolently; and he had often
much to do to appease horrible jealousies.  He lived in continual hot water with his favourites,
to say nothing of the quarrels of that troop of ladies of a very decided character--many of
whom were very malicious, and, most, more than malicious--with whom Monsieur used to divert
himself, entering into all their wretched squabbles.

The Chevaliers de Lorraine and Chatillon had both made a large fortune by their good looks,
with which he was more smitten than with those of any other of his favourites.  Chatillon,
who had neither head, nor sense, nor wit, got on in this way, and acquired fortune.  The other
behaved like a Guisard, who blushes at nothing provided he succeeds; and governed Monsieur
with a high hand all his life, was overwhelmed with money and benefices, did what he liked
for his family, lived always publicly as the master with Monsieur; and as he had, with the
pride of the Guises, their art and cleverness, he contrived to get between the King and Monsieur,
to be dealt with gingerly, if not feared by both, and was almost as important a man with the
one as with the other.  He had the finest apartments in the Palais Royal and Saint Cloud, and
a pension of ten thousand crowns.  He remained in his apartments after the death of Monsieur,
but would not from pride continue to receive the pension, which from pride was offered him.
Although it would have been difficult to be more timid and submissive than was Monsieur with
the King--for he flattered both his ministers and his mistresses--he, nevertheless, mingled
with his respectful demeanour the demeanour of a brother, and the free and easy ways of one.
In private, he was yet more unconstrained; always taking an armed chair, and never waiting
until the King told him to sit.  In the Cabinet, after the King appeared, no other Prince sat
besides him, not even Monseigneur.  But in what regarded his service, and his manner of approaching
and leaving the King, no private person could behave with more respect; and he naturally did
everything with grace and dignity.  He never, however, was able to bend to Madame de Maintenon
completely, nor avoid making small attacks on her to the King, nor avoid satirising her pretty
broadly in person.  It was not her success that annoyed him; but simply the idea that La Scarron
had become his sister- in-law; this was insupportable to him.  Monsieur was extremely vain,
but not haughty, very sensitive, and a great stickler for what was due to him.  Upon one occasion
he complained to the King that M. le Duc had for some time neglected to attend upon him, as
he was bound, and had boasted that he would not do it.  The King replied, that it was not a
thing to be angry about, that he ought to seek an opportunity to be served by M. le Duc, and
if he would not, to affront him.  Accordingly, one morning at Marly, as he was dressing, seeing
M. le Duc walking in the garden, Monsieur opened the window and called to him.  Monsieur le
Duc came up, and entered the room.  Then, while one remark was leading to another, Monsieur
slipped off his dressing-gown, and then his shirt.  A valet de chambre standing by, at once
slipped a clean shirt into the hands of M. le Duc, who, caught thus in a trap, was compelled
to offer the garment to Monsieur, as it was his duty to do.  As soon as Monsieur had received
it, he burst out laughing, and said--"Good-bye, cousin, go away.  I do not want to delay you
longer."  M. le Duc felt the point of this, and went away very angry, and continued so in consequence
of the high tone Monsieur afterwards kept up on the subject.

Monsieur was a little round-bellied man, who wore such high-heeled shoes that he seemed mounted
always upon stilts; was always decked out like a woman, covered everywhere with rings, bracelets,
jewels; with a long black wig, powdered, and curled in front; with ribbons wherever he could
put them; steeped in perfumes, and in fine a model of cleanliness.  He was accused of putting
on an imperceptible touch of rouge.  He had a long nose, good eyes and mouth, a full but very
long face.  All his portraits resembled him.  I was piqued to see that his features recalled
those of Louis XIII., to whom; except in matters of courage, he was so completely dissimilar.

On Saturday, the 11th of June, the Court returned to Versailles.  On arriving there the King
went to visit Madame and her son and daughter-in- law separately.  Madame, very much troubled
by reflection on her position with regard to the King, had sent the Duchesse de Ventadour to
Madame de Maintenon.  The latter replied to the message only in general terms; said she would
visit Madame after dinner, and requested that the Duchess might be present at the interview.
It was Sunday, the morning after the return from Marly.  After the first compliments, every
one went out except Madame de Ventadour.  Then Madame requested Madame de Maintenon to sit
down; and she must have felt her position keenly to bring her to this.

She began the conversation by complaining of the indifference with which the King had treated
her during her illness.  Madame de Maintenon allowed her to talk on; and when she had finished,
said that the King had commanded her to say that their common loss effaced all the past, provided
that he had reason to be better satisfied for the future, not only as regarded M. le Duc de
Chartres, but other matters also.  Upon this Madame exclaimed and protested that, except in
as far as regarded her son, she had never given cause for displeasure; and went on alternating
complaints and justifications.  Precisely at the point when she was most emphatic, Madame de
Maintenon drew forth a letter from her pocket and asked if the handwriting was known to her.
It was a letter from Madame to the Duchess of Hanover, in which she said, after giving news
of the Court, that no one knew what to say of the intercourse between the King and Madame de
Maintenon, whether it was that of marriage or of concubinage; and then, touching upon other
matters, launched out upon the misery of the realm: that, she said, was too great to be relieved.
This letter had been opened at the post--as almost all letters were at that time, and are indeed
still--and sent to the King.  It may be imagined that this was a thunderstroke to Madame: it
nearly killed her. She burst into tears; and Madame de Maintenon very quietly and demurely
began to represent to her the contents of the letter in all its parts, especially as it was
addressed to a foreign country.  Madame de Ventadour interposed with some twaddle, to give
Madame time to breathe and recover sufficiently to say something.  The best excuse was the
admission of what could not be denied, with supplications for pardon, expressions of repentance,
prayers, promises.  But Madame de Maintenon had not finished yet.  Having got rid of the commission
she had been charged with by the King, she next turned to her own business: she asked Madame
how it was, that after being so friendly with her a long time ago, she had suddenly ceased
to bestow any regard upon her, and had continued to treat her with coldness ever since.  At
this, Madame thinking herself quite safe, said that the coldness was on the part of Madame
de Maintenon, who had all on a sudden discontinued the friendly intercourse which formerly
existed between them.  As before, Madame de Maintenon allowed Madame to talk her fill before
she replied.  She then said she was about to divulge a secret which had never escaped her mouth,
although she had for ten years been at liberty to tell it; and she forthwith related a thousand
most offensive things which had been uttered against her by Madame to the late Madame la Dauphine.
This latter, falling out with Madame, had related all these things to Madame de Maintenon,
who now brought them forward triumphantly.

At this new blow, Madame was thunderstruck, and stood like a statue. There was nothing for
it but to behave as before--that is to say, shed tears, cry, ask pardon, humble herself, and
beg for mercy.  Madame de Maintenon triumphed coldly over her for a long time,--allowing her
to excite herself in talking, and weeping, and taking her hands, which she did with increasing
energy and humility.  This was a terrible humiliation for such a haughty German.  Madame de
Maintenon at last gave way, as she had always meant to do after having satiated her vengeance.
They embraced, promised forgetfulness on both sides, and a new friendship from that time. 
The King, who was not ignorant of what had occurred, took back Madame into favour.  She went
neither to a convent nor to Montargis, but was allowed to remain in Paris, and her pension
was augmented.  As for M. le Duc de Chartres, he was prodigiously well treated.  The King gave
him all the pensions Monsieur had enjoyed, besides allowing him to retain his own; so that
he had one million eight hundred thousand livres a year; added to the Palais Royal, Saint Cloud,
and other mansions.  He had a Swiss guard, which none but the sons of France had ever had before;
in fact he retained all the privileges his father had enjoyed, and he took the name of Duc
d'Orleans.  The pensions of Madame de Chartres were augmented.  All these honours so great
and so unheard of bestowed on M. de Chartres, and an income of a hundred thousand crowns more
than his father, were due solely to the quarrel which had recently taken place between Monsieur
and the King, as to the marriage M. de Chartres had made.  People accustom themselves to everything,
but this prodigious good fortune infinitely surprised everybody.  The Princes of the blood
were extremely mortified.  To console them, the King immediately gave to M. le Prince all the
advantages of a first Prince of the blood, and added ten thousand crowns to his pension.

Madame wore deep mourning for forty days, after which she threw it almost entirely aside, with
the King's permission.  He did not like to see such sad-looking things before his eyes every
day.  Madame went about in public, and with the Court, in her half-mourning, under pretence
that being with the King, and living under his roof, she was of the family. But her conduct
was not the less thought strange in spite of this excuse. During the winter, as the King could
not well go to the theatre, the theatre cane to him, in the apartments of Madame de Maintenon,
where comedies with music were played.  The King wore mourning for six months, and paid all
the expenses of the superb funeral which took place on the 13th of June.

While upon the subject of Monsieur, I will relate an anecdote known to but few people, concerning
the death of his first wife, Henriette d'Angleterre, whom nobody doubts was poisoned.  Her
gallantries made Monsieur jealous; and his tastes made her furious.  His favourites, whom she
hated, did all in their power to sow discord between them, in order to dispose of Monsieur
at their will.  The Chevalier de Lorraine, then in the prime of his first youth (having been
born in 1643) completely ruled over Monsieur, and made Madame feel that he had this power.
She, charming and young, could not suffer this, and complained to the King, so that M. de Lorraine
was exiled.  When Monsieur heard this, he swooned, then melted into tears, and throwing himself
at the feet of the King, implored him to recall M. de Lorraine.  But his prayers were useless,
and, rushing away in fury, he retired into the country and remained there until, ashamed of
a thing so publicly disgraceful, he returned to Paris and lived with Madame as before.

Although M. de Lorraine was banished, two of his intimate friends, D'Effiat and the Count de
Beuvron, remained in the household of Monsieur. The absence of M. de Lorraine nipped all their
hopes of success, and made them fear that some other favourite might arrive from whom they
could hope for nothing.  They saw no chance that M. de Lorraine's exile would speedily terminate;
for Madame (Henriette d'Angleterre) was in greater favour with the King than ever, and had
just been sent by him into England on a mysterious errand in which she had perfectly succeeded.
She returned triumphant and very well in health.  This gave the last blow to the hopes of D'Effiat
and Beuvron, as to the return of M. de Lorraine, who had gone to Italy to try to get rid of
his vexation.  I know not which of the three thought of it first, but the Chevalier de Lorraine
sent a sure and rapid poison to his two friends by a messenger who did not probably know what
he carried.

At Saint Cloud, Madame was in the habit of taking a glass of endive- water, at about seven
o'clock in the evening.  A servant of hers used to make it, and then put it away in a cupboard
where there was some ordinary water for the use of Madame if she found the other too bitter.
The cupboard was in an antechamber which served as the public passage by which the apartments
of Madame were reached.  D'Effiat took notice of all these things, and on the 29th of June,
1670, he went to the ante-chamber; saw that he was unobserved and that nobody was near, and
threw the poison into the endive-water; then hearing some one approaching, he seized the jug
of common water and feigned to be putting it back in its place just as the servant, before
alluded to, entered and asked him sharply what he was doing in that cupboard.  D'Effiat, without
losing countenance, asked his pardon, and said, that being thirsty, and knowing there was some
water in the cupboard, he could not resist drinking.  The servant grumbled; and D'Effiat, trying
to appease him, entered the apartments of Madame, like the other courtiers, and began talking
without the slightest emotion.

What followed an hour afterwards does not belong to my subject, and has made only too much
stir throughout all Europe.  Madame died on the morrow, June 30, at three o'clock in the morning;
and the King was profoundly prostrated with grief.  Apparently during the day, some indications
showed him that Purnon, chief steward of Madame, was in the secret of her decease.  Purnon
was brought before him privately, and was threatened with instant death, unless he disclosed
all; full pardon being on the contrary promised him if he did.  Purnon, thus pressed, admitted
that Madame had been poisoned, and under the circumstance I have just related.  "And my brother,"
said the King, "did he know of this?"-- "No, Sire, not one of us was stupid enough to tell
him; he has no secrecy, he would have betrayed us."  On hearing this answer the King uttered
a great "ah!" like a man oppressed, who suddenly breathes again.

Purnon was immediately set at liberty; and years afterwards related this narrative to M. Joly
de Fleury, procureur-general of the Parliament, by which magistrate it was related to me. 
From this same magistrate I learned that, a few days before the second marriage of Monsieur,
the King took Madame aside and told her that circumstance, assuring her that he was too honest
a man to wish her to marry his brother, if that brother could be capable of such a crime. 
Madame profited by what she heard. Purnon remained in her service; but after a time she pretended
to find faults in him, and made him resign; he sold his post accordingly, towards the end of
1674, to Maurel de Vaulonne, and quitted her service.

CHAPTER XXIII

A the breaking out of the war in Italy this year Segur bought the government of the Foix country
from Tallard, one of the generals called away to serve in that war.  Segur had been in his
youth a very handsome fellow; he was at that time in the Black Musketeers, and this company
was always quartered at Nemours while the Court was at Fontainebleau.  Segur played very well
upon the lute; but found life dull, nevertheless, at Nemours, made the acquaintance of the
Abbesse de la Joye, a place hard by, and charmed her ears and eyes so much that she became
with child by him.  After some months the Abbess pleaded illness, left the convent, and set
out for the waters, as she said.  Putting off her journey too long, she was obliged to stop
a night at Fontainebleau; and in consequence of the Court being there, could find no accommodation,
except in a wretched little inn already full of company.  She had delayed so long that the
pangs of labour seized her in the night, and the cries she uttered brought all the house to
her assistance.  She was delivered of a child then and there; and the next morning this fact
was the talk of the town.

The Duc de Saint Aignan, one of the first of the courtiers who learned it, went straight to
the King, who was brisk and free enough in those days, and related to him what had occurred;
the King laughed heartily at the poor Abbess, who, while trying to hide her shame, had come
into the very midst of the Court.  Nobody knew then that her abbey was only four leagues distant,
but everybody learned it soon, and the Duc de Saint Aignan among the first.

When he returned to his house, he found long faces on every side.  His servants made signs
one to another, but nobody said a word.  He perceived this, and asked what was the matter;
but, for some time, no one dared to reply.  At last a valet-de-chambre grew bold enough to
say to Saint Aignan, that the Abbess, whose adventure had afforded so much mirth, was his own
daughter; and that, after he had gone to the King, she had sent for assistance, in order to
get out of the place where she was staying.

It was now the Duke's turn to be confused.  After having made the King and all the Court laugh
at this adventure, he became himself the laughing-stock of everybody.  He bore the affair as
well as he could; carried away the Abbess and her baggage; and, as the scandal was public,
made her send in her resignation and hide herself in another convent, where she lived more
than forty years.

That worthy man, Saint-Herem, died this year at his house in Auvergne, to which he had retired.
Everybody liked him; and M. de Rochefoucauld had reproached the King for not making him Chevalier
of the Order.  The King had confounded him with Courtine, his brother-in-law, for they had
married two sisters; but when put right had not given the favour.

Madame de Saint-Herem was the most singular creature in the world, not only in face but in
manners.  She half boiled her thigh one day in the Seine, near Fontainebleau, where she was
bathing.  The river was too cold; she wished to warm it, and had a quantity of water heated
and thrown into the stream just above her.  The water reaching her before it could grow cold,
scalded her so much that she was forced to keep her bed.

When it thundered, she used to squat herself under a couch and make all her servants lie above,
one upon the other, so that if the thunderbolt fell, it might have its effect upon them before
penetrating to her.  She had ruined herself and her husband, though they were rich, through
sheer imbecility; and it is incredible the amount of money she spent in her absurdities.

The best adventure which happened to her, among a thousand others, was at her house in the
Place Royale, where she was one day attacked by a madman, who, finding her alone in her chamber,
was very enterprising. The good lady, hideous at eighteen, but who was at this time eighty
and a widow, cried aloud as well as she could.  Her servants heard her at last, ran to her
assistance, and found her all disordered, struggling in the hands of this raging madman.  The
man was found to be really out of his senses when brought before the tribunal, and the story
amused everybody.

The health of the King of England (James II.), which had for some time been very languishing,
grew weaker towards the middle of August of this year, and by the 8th of September completely
gave way.  There was no longer any hope.  The King, Madame de Maintenon, and all the royal
persons, visited him often.  He received the last sacrament with a piety in keeping with his
past life, and his death was expected every instant. In this conjuncture the King made a resolve
more worthy of Louis XII., or Francis I., than of his own wisdom.  On Tuesday, the 13th of
September, he went from Marly to Saint Germain.  The King of England was so ill that when the
King was announced to him he scarcely opened his eyes for an instant.  The King told him that
he might die in peace respecting the Prince of Wales, whom he would recognise as King of England,
Scotland, and Ireland.

The few English who were there threw themselves upon their knees, but the King of England gave
no signs of life.  The gratitude of the Prince of Wales and of his mother, when they heard
what the King had said, may be imagined.  Returned to Marly, the King repeated to all the Court
what he had said.  Nothing was heard but praises and applause.

Yet reflections did not fail to be made promptly, if not publicly.  It was seen, that to recognise
the Prince of Wales was to act in direct opposition to the recognition of the Prince of Orange
as King of England, that the King had declared at the Peace of Ryswick.  It was to wound the
Prince of Orange in the tenderest point, and to invite England and Holland to become allies
of the Emperor against France.  As for the Prince of Wales, this recognition was no solid advantage
to him, but was calculated to make the party opposed to him in England only more bitter and
vigilant in their opposition.

The King of England, in the few intervals of intelligence he had, appeared much impressed by
what the King had done.  He died about three o'clock in the afternoon of the 16th September
of this year, 1701. He had requested that there might he no display at his funeral, and his
wish was faithfully observed.  He was buried on the Saturday, at seven o'clock in the evening,
in the church of the English Benedictines at Paris, Rue St. Jacques, without pomp, and attended
by but few mourners. His body rests in the chapel, like that of the simplest private person,
until the time, apparently very distant, when it shall be transported to England.  His heart
is at the Filles de Sainte Marie, of Chaillot.

Immediately afterwards, the Prince of Wales was received by the King as King of England, with
all the formalities and state with which his father before him had been received.  Soon afterwards
he was recognised by the new King of Spain.

The Count of Manchester, English ambassador in France, ceased to appear at Versailles after
this recognition of the Prince of Wales by the King, and immediately quitted his post and left
the country without any leave- taking.  King William heard, while in Holland, of the death
of James II. and of this recognition.  He was at table with some German princes and other lords
when the news arrived; did not utter a word, except to announce the death; but blushed, pulled
down his hat, and could not keep his countenance.  He sent orders to London, to drive out Poussin,
acting as French ambassador, immediately; and Poussin directly crossed the sea and arrived
at Calais.

This event was itself followed by the signing of the great treaty of alliance, offensive and
defensive, against France and Spain, by Austria, England, and Holland; in which they afterwards
succeeded in engaging other powers, which compelled the King to increase the number of his troops.

Just after the return of the Court from Fontainebleau, a strange scene happened at St. Maur,
in a pretty house there which M. le Duc possessed. He was at this house one night with five
or six intimate friends, whom he had invited to pass the night there.  One of these friends
was the Comte de Fiesque.  At table, and before the wine had begun to circulate, a dispute
upon some historical point arose between him and M. le Duc.  The Comte de Fiesque, who had
some intellect and learning, strongly sustained his opinion.  M. le Duc sustained his; and
for want of better reasons, threw a plate at the head of Fiesque, drove him from the table
and out of the house.  So sudden and strange a scene frightened the guests.  The Comte de Fiesque,
who had gone to M. le Duc's house with the intention of passing the night there, had not retained
a carriage, went to ask shelter of the cure, and got back to Paris the next day as early in
the morning as he could.  It may be imagined that the rest of the supper and of the evening
was terribly dull.  M. le Duc remained fuming (perhaps against himself, but without saying
so), and could not be induced to apologise for the affront.  It made a great stir in society,
and things remained thus several months.  After a while, friends mixed themselves in the matter;
M. le Duc, completely himself again, made all the advances towards a reconciliation.  The Comte
de Fiesque received them, and the reconciliation took place.  The most surprising thing is,
that after this they continued on as good terms as though nothing had passed between them.

The year 1702 commenced with balls at Versailles, many of which were masquerades.  Madame du
Maine gave several in her chamber, always keeping her bed because she was in the family-way;
which made rather a singular spectacle.  There were several balls at Marly, but the majority
were not masquerades.  The King often witnessed, but in strict privacy, and always in the apartments
of Madame de Maintenon, sacred dramas such as "Absalon," "Athalie," &c.  Madame la Duchesse
de Bourgogne, M. le Duc d'Orleans, the Comte and Comtesse d'Anjou, the young Comte de Noailles,
Mademoiselle de Melun, urged by the Noailles, played the principal characters in very magnificent
stage dresses.  Baron, the excellent old actor, instructed them and played with them.  M. de
Noailles and his clever wife were the inventors and promoters of these interior pleasures,
for the purpose of intruding themselves more and more into the society of the King, in support
of the alliance of Madame de Maintenon.

Only forty spectators were admitted to the representations.  Madame was sometimes invited by
the King, because she liked plays.  This favour was much sought after.  Madame de Maintenon
wished to show that she had forgotten the past.

Longepierre had written a very singular piece called "Electra," which was played on a magnificent
stage erected in Madame de Conti's house, and all the Court flocked several times to see it.
This piece was without love, but full of other passions and of most interesting situations.
I think it had been written in the hopes that the King would go and see it.  But he contented
himself with hearing it talked about, and the representation was confined to the Hotel de Conti.
Longepierre would not allow it to be given elsewhere.  He was an intriguing fellow of much
wit, gentle, insinuating, and who, under a tranquillity and indifference and a very deceitful
philosophy, thrust himself everywhere, and meddled with everything in order to make his fortune.
He succeeded in intruding himself into favour with the Duc d'Orleans, but behaved so badly
that he was driven away.

The death of the Abbe de Vatteville occurred at the commencement of this year, and made some
noise, on account of the prodigies of the Abbe's life.  This Vatteville was the younger son
of a Franche-Comte family; early in life he joined the Order of the Chartreux monks, and was
ordained priest.  He had much intellect, but was of an impetuous spirit, and soon began to
chafe under the yoke of a religious life.  He determined, therefore, to set himself free from
it, and procured some secular habits, pistols, and a horse.  Just as he was about to escape
over the walls of the monastery by means of a ladder, the prior entered his cell.

Vatteville made no to-do, but at once drew a pistol, shot the prior dead, and effected his escape.

Two or three days afterwards, travelling over the country and avoiding as much as possible
the frequented places, he arrived at a wretched roadside inn, and asked what there was in the
house.  The landlord replied--"A leg of mutton and a capon."--"Good!" replied our unfrocked
monk; "put them down to roast."

The landlord replied that they were too much for a single person, and that he had nothing else
for the whole house.  The monk upon this flew into a passion, and declared that the least the
landlord could do was to give him what he would pay for; and that he had sufficient appetite
to eat both leg of mutton and capon.  They were accordingly put down to the fire, the landlord
not daring to say another word.  While they were cooking, a traveller on horseback arrived
at the inn, and learning that they were for one person, was much astonished.  He offered to
pay his share to be allowed to dine off them with the stranger who had ordered this dinner;
but the landlord told him he was afraid the gentleman would not consent to the arrangement.
Thereupon the traveller went upstairs, and civilly asked Vatteville if he might dine with him
on paying half of the expense.  Vatteville would not consent, and a dispute soon arose between
the two; to be brief, the monk served this traveller as he had served the prior, killed him
with a pistol shot.  After this he went downstairs tranquilly, and in the midst of the fright
of the landlord and of the whole house, had the leg of mutton and capon served up to him, picked
both to the very bone, paid his score, remounted his horse, and went his way.

Not knowing what course to take, he went to Turkey, and in order to succeed there, had himself
circumcised, put on the turban, and entered into the militia.  His blasphemy advanced him,
his talents and his colour distinguished him; he became Bacha, and the confidential man in
the Morea, where the Turks were making war against the Venetians.  He determined to make use
of this position in order to advance his own interests, and entering into communication with
the generalissimo of the Republic, promised to betray into his hands several secret places
belonging to the Turks, but on certain conditions.  These were, absolution from the Pope for
all crimes of his life, his murders and his apostasy included; security against the Chartreux
and against being placed in any other Order; full restitution of his civil rights, and liberty
to exercise his profession of priest with the right of possessing all benefices of every kind.
The Venetians thought the bargain too good to be refused, and the Pope, in the interest of
the Church, accorded all the demands of the Bacha.  When Vatteville was quite assured that
his conditions would be complied with, he took his measures so well that he executed perfectly
all he had undertaken.  Immediately after he threw himself into the Venetian army, and passed
into Italy.  He was well received at Rome by the Pope, and returned to his family in Franche-
Comte, and amused himself by braving the Chartreux.

At the first conquest of the Franche-Comte, he intrigued so well with the Queen-mother and
the ministry, that he was promised the Archbishopric of Besancon; but the Pope cried out against
this on account of his murders, circumcision, and apostasy.  The King sided with the Pope,
and Vatteville was obliged to be contented with the abbey of Baume, another good abbey in Picardy,
and divers other advantages.

