'Ah, you have yet to feel what a Canadian winter is like, my young friend;' and Captain Armytage
nodded in that mysterious manner which is intended to impress a 'griffin' with the cheering
conviction that unknown horrors are before him.

'I wonder what is that tall church, whose roof glitters so intensely?'

'The cathedral, under its tin dome and spires. The metal is said to hinder the lodging and
help the thawing of the snow, which might otherwise lie so heavy as to endanger the roof.'

'Oh, that is the reason!' ejaculated Robert, suddenly enlightened as to the needs-be of all
the surface glitter.

'Rather a pretty effect, eh? and absolutely unique, except in Canadian cities. It suggests
an infinitude of greenhouses reflecting sunbeams at a variety of angles of incidence.'

'I presume this is the lower town, lying along the quays?' said Robert.

'Yes, like our Scottish Edinburgh, the old city, being built in dangerous times, lies huddled
close together under protection of its guardian rock,' said the Captain. 'But within, you could
fancy yourself suddenly transported into an old Normandy town, among narrow crooked streets
and high-gabled houses: nor will the degree of cleanliness undeceive you. For, unlike most
other American cities, Quebec has a Past as well as a Present: there is the French Past, narrow,
dark, crowded, hiding under a fortification; and there is the English Present, embodied in
the handsome upper town, and the suburb of St. John's, broad, well-built, airy. The line of
distinction is very marked between the pushing Anglo-Saxon's premises and the tumble-down concerns
of the stand-still habitan.'

Perhaps, also, something is due to the difference between Protestant enterprise and Roman Catholic
supineness.

'There's a boat boarding us already,' said Robert.

It proved to be the Custom-house officers; and when their domiciliary visit was over, Robert
and Arthur went ashore. Navigating through a desert expanse of lumber rafts and a labyrinth
of hundreds of hulls, they stepped at last on the ugly wooden wharves which line the water's
edge, and were crowded with the usual traffic of a port; yet singularly noiseless, from the
boarded pavement beneath the wheels.

Though the brothers had never been in any part of France, the peculiarly French aspect of the
lower town struck them immediately. The old-fashioned dwellings, with steep lofty roofs, accumulated
in narrow alleys, seemed to date back to an age long anterior to Montcalm's final struggle
with Wolfe on the heights; even back, perchance, to the brave enthusiast Champlain's first
settlement under the superb headland, replacing the Indian village of Stadacona. To perpetuate
his fame, a street alongside the river is called after him; and though his 'New France' has
long since joined the dead names of extinct colonies, the practical effects of his early toil
and struggle remain in this American Gibraltar which he originated.

Andy Callaghan had begged leave to accompany his young masters ashore, and marched at a respectful
distance behind them, along that very Champlain Street, looking about him with unfeigned astonishment.
'I suppose the quarries is all used up in these parts, for the houses is wood, an' the churches
is wood, and the sthreets has wooden stones ondher our feet,' he soliloquized, half audibly.
'It's a mighty quare counthry intirely: between the people making a land on top of the wather
for 'emselves by thim big rafts, an' buildin' houses on 'em, and kindlin' fires'----

Here his meditation was rudely broken into by the sudden somerset of a child from a doorstep
he was passing; but it had scarcely touched the ground when Andy, with an exclamation in Irish,
swung it aloft in his arms.

'Mono mush thig thu! you crathur, is it trying which yer head or the road is the hardest, ye
are? Whisht now, don't cry, me fine boy, and maybe I'd sing a song for ye.'

'Wisha then, cead mille failthe a thousand times, Irishman, whoever ye are!' said the mother,
seizing Andy's hand. 'And my heart warms to the tongue of the old counthry! Won't you come
in, honest man, an' rest awhile, an' it's himself will be glad to see ye?'

'And who's himself?' inquired Andy, dandling the child.

'The carpenter, Pat M'Donagh of Ballinoge'--

'Hurroo!' shouted Andy, as he executed a whirligig on one leg, and then embraced the amazed
Mrs. M'Donagh fraternally. 'My uncle's son's wife! an' a darling purty face you have of yer
own too.'

'Don't be funnin', now,' said the lady, bridling; 'an' you might have axed a person's lave
before ye tossed me cap that way. Here, Pat, come down an' see yer cousin just arrived from
the ould counthry!'

Robert and Arthur Wynn, missing their servitor at the next turn, and looking back, beheld something
like a popular émeute in the narrow street, which was solely Andy fraternizing with his countrymen
and recovered relations.

'Wait a minit,' said Andy, returning to his allegiance, as he saw them looking back; 'let me
run afther the gentlemen and get lave to stay.'

'Lave, indeed!' exclaimed the republican-minded Mrs. M'Donagh; 'it's I that wud be afther askin
lave in a free counthry! Why, we've no masthers nor missusses here at all.'

'Hut, woman, but they're my fostherers--the young Mr. Wynns of Dunore.'

Great had been that name among the peasantry once; and even yet it had not lost its prestige
with the transplanted Pat M'Donagh. He had left Ireland a ragged pauper in the famine year,
and was now a thriving artisan, with average wages of seven shillings a day; an independence
with which Robert Wynn would have considered himself truly fortunate, and upon less than which
many a lieutenant in Her Majesty's infantry has to keep up a gentlemanly appearance. Pat's
strength had been a drug in his own country; here it readily worked an opening to prosperity.

And presently forgetting his sturdy Canadian notions of independence, the carpenter was bowing
cap in hand before the gentlemen, begging them to accept the hospitality of his house while
they stayed in Quebec. 'The M'Donaghs is ould tenants of yer honours' father, an' many a kindness
they resaved from the family, and 'twould be the joy of me heart to see one of the ancient
stock at me table,' he said; 'an' sure me father's brother's son is along wid ye.'

'The ancient stock' declined, with many thanks, as they wanted to see the city; but Andy, not
having the same zeal for exploring, remained in the discovered nest of his kinsfolk, and made
himself so acceptable, that they parted subsequently with tears.

Meanwhile the brothers walked from the Lower to the Upper Town, through the quaint steep streets
of stone houses--relics of the old French occupation. The language was in keeping with this
foreign aspect, and the vivacious gestures of the inhabitants told their pedigree. Robert and
Arthur were standing near a group of them in the market-square, assembled round a young bear
brought in by an Indian, when the former felt a heavy hand on his shoulder, and the next instant
the tenacity of his wrist was pretty well tested in the friendly grasp of Hiram Holt.

CHAPTER V.

DEBARKATION.

The chill of foreignness and loneliness which had been creeping over Robert Wynn's sensations
since he had entered the strange city, was dissipated as if a cloud had suddenly lifted off.
The friendly face of the colossal Canadian beaming a welcome upon him, with that broad sunshiny
smile which seems immediately to raise the temperature of the surrounding air, did certainly
warm his heart, and nerve it too. He was not altogether a stranger in a strange land.

'And so you've followed my advice! Bravo, young blood! You'll never be sorry for adopting Canada
as your country. Now, what are your plans?' bestowing an aside left-hand grasp upon Arthur.
'Can Hiram Holt help you? Have the old people come out? So much the better; they would only
cripple you in the beginning. Wait till your axe has cut the niche big enough. You rush on
for the West, I suppose?'

All these inquiries in little longer than a breath; while he wrung Robert's hand at intervals
with a heartiness and power of muscle which almost benumbed the member.

'We have letters to friends on Lake Erie, and to others on Lake Simcoe,' said Robert, rescuing
his hand, which tingled, and yet communicated a very pleasurable sensation to his heart. 'We
are not quite decided on our line of march.'

'Well, how did you come? Emigrant vessel?'

Adopting the laconic also, Robert nodded, and said it was their first day in Quebec.

'Get quit of her as soon as you can; haul your traps ashore, and come along with me. I'll be
going up the Ottawa in a day or two, home; and 'twill be only a step out of your way westward.
You can look about you, and see what Canadian life is like for a few weeks; the longer, the
more welcome to Hiram Holt's house. Is that fixed?'

Robert was beginning to thank him warmly--

'Now, shut up, young man; I distrust a fellow that has much palaver. You look too manly for
it. I calculate your capital ain't much above your four hands between you?'

Arthur was rather discomfited at a query so pointed, and so directly penetrating the proud
British reserve about monetary circumstances; but Robert, knowing that the motive was kind-hearted,
and the manner just that of a straightforward unconventional settler, replied, 'You are nearly
right, Mr. Holt; our capital in cash is very small; but I hope stout bodies and stout hearts
are worth something.'

'What would you think of a bush farm? I think I heard you say you had some experience on your
father's farm in Ireland?'

'My father's estate, sir,' began Arthur, reddening a little.

Holt measured him by a look, but not one of displeasure. 'Farms in Canada grow into estates,'
said he; 'by industry and push, I shouldn't be surprised if you became a landed proprietor
yourself before your beard is stiff.' Arthur had as yet no symptom of that manly adornment,
though anxiously watching for the down. The backwoodsman turned to Robert.

'Government lands are cheap enough, no doubt; four shillings an acre, and plenty of them. If
you're able, I'd have you venture on that speculation. Purchase-money is payable in ten years;
that's a good breathing time for a beginner. But can you give up all luxuries for a while,
and eat bread baked by your own hands, and sleep in a log hut on a mess of juniper boughs,
and work hard all day at clearing the eternal forests, foot by foot?'

'We can,' answered Arthur eagerly. His brother's assent was not quite so vivacious.

Hiram Holt thought within himself how soon the ardent young spirit might tire of that monotony
of labour; how distasteful the utter loneliness and uneventfulness of forest life might become
to the undisciplined lad, accustomed, as he shrewdly guessed, to a petted and idling boyhood.

'Well said, young fellow. For three years I can't say well done; though I hope I may have that
to add also.'

By this time they had passed from the Market Square to the Esplanade, overhanging the Lower
Town, and which commands a view almost matchless for extent and varied beauty. At this hour
the shades of evening were settling down, and tinging with sombre hues the colouring of the
landscape: over the western edge the sun had sunk; far below, the noble river lay in black
shadow and a single gleaming band of dying daylight, as it crept along under the fleets of ships.

Indistinct as the details were becoming, the outlined masses were grander for the growing obscurity,
and Robert could not restrain an exclamation of 'Magnificent!'

'Well, I won't deny but it is handsome,' said Mr. Holt, secretly gratified; 'I never expect
to see anything like it for situation, whatever other way it's deficient. Now I'm free to confess
it's only a village to your London, for forty thousand wouldn't be missed out of two or three
millions; but bigness ain't the only beauty in the world, else I'd be a deal prettier than
my girl Bell, who's not much taller than my walking-stick, and the fairest lass in our township.'

The adjective 'pretty' seemed so ridiculously inappropriate to one of Mr. Holt's dimensions
and hairy development of face, that Robert could not forbear a smile. But the Canadian had
returned to the landscape.

'Quebec is the key of Canada, that's certain; and so Wolfe and Montcalm knew, when they fought
their duel here for the prize.'

Arthur pricked up his ears at the celebrated names. 'Oh, Bob, we must try and see the battlefield,'
he exclaimed, being fresh from Goldsmith's celebrated manual of English history.

'To-morrow,' said Mr. Holt. 'It lies west on top of the chain of heights flanking the river.
A monument to the generals stands near here, in the Castle gardens, with the names on opposite
sides of the square block. To be sure, how death levels us all! Lord Dalhousie built that obelisk
when he was Governor in 1827. You see, as it is the only bit of history we possess, we never
can commemorate it enough; so there's another pillar on the plains.'

Lights began to appear in the vessels below, reflected as long brilliant lines in the glassy
deeps. 'Perhaps we ought to be getting back to the ship,' suggested Robert, 'before it is quite
dark.'

'Of course you are aware that this is the aristocratic section of the town,' said Mr. Holt,
as they turned to retrace their steps. 'Here the citizens give themselves up to pleasure and
politics, while the Lower Town is the business place. The money is made there which is spent
here; and when our itinerating Legislature comes round, Quebec is very gay, and considerably
excited.'

'Itinerating Legislature! what's that?' asked Arthur.

'Why, you see, in 1840 the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada were legally united; their representatives
met in the same House of Assembly, and so forth. Kingston was made the capital, as a central
point; however, last year ('49) the famous device of itineration was introduced, by which,
every four years, his Excellency the Governor and the Right Honourable Parliament move about
from place to place, like a set of travelling showmen.'

'And when will Quebec's turn come?'

'In '51, next year. The removal of court patronage is said to have injured the city greatly:
like all half-and-half measures, it pleases nobody. Toronto growls, and Kingston growls, and
Quebec growls, and Montreal growls; Canada is in a state of chronic dissatisfaction, so far
as the towns go. For myself, I never feel at home in Quebec; the lingo of the habitans puzzles
me, and I'm not used to the dark narrow streets.'

'Are you a member of the Parliament, Mr. Holt?' asked Arthur.

'No, though I might be,' replied Hiram, raising his hat for a moment from his masses of grizzled
hair. 'I've been town reeve many times, and county warden once. The neighbours wanted to nominate
me for the House of Assembly, and son Sam would have attended to the farms and mills; but I
had that European trip in my eye, and didn't care. Ah, I see you look at the post-office, young
fellow,' as they passed that building just outside the gate of the Upper Town wall; 'don't
get homesick already on our hands; there are no post-offices in the bush.'

Arthur looked slightly affronted at this speech, and, to assert his manliness, could have resigned
all letters for a twelvemonth. Mr. Holt walked on with a preoccupied air until he said,--

'I must go now, I have an appointment; but I'll be on board to-morrow at noon. The brig Ocean
Queen, of Cork, you say? Now your path is right down to Champlain Street; you can't lose your
way. Good-bye;' and his receding figure was lost in the dusk, with mighty strides.

'He's too bluff,' said Arthur, resenting thus the one or two plain-spoken sentences that had
touched himself.

'But sound and steady, like one of his own forest pines,' said Robert.

'We have yet to test that,' rejoined Arthur, with some truth. 'I wonder shall we ever find
the house into which Andy was decoyed; those wooden ranges are all the image of one another.
I am just as well pleased he wasn't mooning after us through the Upper Town during the daylight;
for, though he's such a worthy fellow, he hasn't exactly the cut of a gentleman's servant.
We must deprive him of that iligant new frieze topcoat, with its three capes, till it is fashioned
into a civilised garment.'

Mr. Pat M'Donagh's mansion was wooden--one of a row of such, situated near the dockyard in
which he wrought. Andy was already on the look-out from the doorstep; and, conscious that he
had been guilty of some approach to excess, behaved with such meek silence and constrained
decorum, that his master guessed the cause, and graciously connived at his slinking to his
berth as soon as he was up the ship's side.

But when Mr. Wynn walked forward next morning to summon Andy's assistance for his luggage,
he found that gentleman the focus of a knot of passengers, to whom he was imparting information
in his own peculiar way. 'Throth an' he talks like a book itself,' was the admiring comment
of a woman with a child on one arm, while she crammed her tins into her red box with the other.

'Every single ha'porth is wood, I tell ye, barrin' the grates, an' 'tisn't grates they are
at all, but shtoves. Sure I saw 'em at Pat M'Donagh's as black as twelve o'clock at night,
an' no more a sign of a blaze out of 'em than there's light from a blind man's eye; an' 'tisn't
turf nor coal they burns, but only wood agin. It's I that wud sooner see the plentiful hearths
of ould Ireland, where the turf fire cooks the vittles dacently! Oh wirra! why did we ever
lave it?'

But Mr. Wynn intercepted the rising chorus by the simple dissyllable, 'Andy!'

'Sir, yer honour!' wheeling round, and suddenly resuming a jocose demeanour; 'I was only jokin'
about bein' back. I must be kapin' up their sperits, the crathurs, that dunno what's before
them at all at all; only thinks they're to be all gintlemin an' ladies.' This, as he followed
his master towards the cabins: 'Whisht here, Misther Robert,' lowering his tone confidentially.'
You'd laugh if you heard what they think they're goin' to get. Coinin' would be nothin' to
it. That red-headed Biddy Flannigan' (Andy's own chevelure was of carrot tinge, yet he never
lost an opportunity of girding at those like-haired), 'who couldn't wash a pair of stockings
if you gev her a goold guinea, expects twenty pund a year an' her keep, at the very laste;
and Murty Keefe the labourin' boy, that could just trench a ridge of praties, thinks nothing
of tin shillins a day. They have it all laid out among them iligant. Mrs. Mulrooney is lookin'
out for her carriage by'ne-by; and they were abusin' me for not sayin' I'd cut an' run from
yer honours, now that I'm across.'

'Well, Andy, I'd be sorry to stand in the way of your advancement--'

'Me lave ye, Misther Robert!' in accents of unfeigned surprise; 'not unless ye drove me with
a whip an' kicked me--is it your poor fostherer Andy Callaghan? Masther Bob, asthore, ye're
all the counthry I have now, an' all the frinds; an' I'll hold by ye, if it be plasing, as
long as I've strength to strike a spade.'

Tears actually stood in the faithful fellow's eyes. 'I believe you, Andy,' said his master,
giving his hand to the servant for a grasp of friendship, which, if it oftener took place between
the horny palm of labour and the whiter fingers of the higher born, would be for the cementing
of society by such recognition of human brotherhood.

When Andy had all their luggage on deck in order for the boats, he came up mysteriously to
Mr. Wynn, where he stood by the taffrail.

'There's that poor young lady strivin' and strugglin' to regulate them big boxes, an' her good-for-nothin'
father an' brother smokin' in the steerage, an' lavin' everything on her. Fine gintlemin, indeed!
More like the Injins, that I'm tould lies in bed while their wives digs the praties!'

Edith Armytage was so well accustomed to such unequal division of labour in her family, that
it had long ceased to seem singular to her that she was invariably the worker, who bore the
brunt of every labour and of every trouble--on whose forecasting care depended the smooth arrangement
of her father's designs; for he could plan well enough, but had a lofty disdain of details.
The small matter of the luggage was type of all her experience.

Jay rather enjoyed the hauling about of huge articles, and attempting to bring on deck things
much larger than her strength; and when she and Edith were jointly essaying to push and pull
up the companion-ladder a carpet-bag of unusual size, it was suddenly lifted from between them,
over Jay's head, and borne on deck.

'Oh, Mr. Wynn, thank you!' said the little thing demurely. 'It was a little too big for me
and Edith. There is a leather valise besides, that's very heavy;' and she looked a wistful
request. Robert thought internally that it would have been good business for the captain to
bring, at least, his own things on deck; and he could not prevail on himself to do more than
offer Andy's services as porter, which were gratefully received. Did Miss Armytage's grey eyes,
as they rested upon his for a minute, understand his thoughts? Probably; he believed she did.
Presently up sauntered her worthy father, wiping his silky moustache and beard from the smoke.

'Well, dear, how have you managed? Beautifully, I have no doubt. She's a model of a daughter,
Wynn!'

'Papa, I hope we may soon land; I positively long to tread the firm earth again.'

'What would you do if you were rocking and rolling in a transport five months round the Cape?
All in good time, dear: I have one or two trifling matters to settle;' and he went down to
the cabins.

Just before noon Hiram Holt stepped on deck.

'I hope you're ready,' were the second words of his greeting. 'Glorious day for sight-seeing;
I've arranged to drive to Cape Rouge over the plains; for we must be off to-morrow, up the
river to Montreal. Where are your boxes?'

During a few minutes' delay for the transit of the luggage to the boat, Captain Armytage approached,
and with those peculiarly pleasing manners which made him a fascinating man to all who did
not know him somewhat deeper than the surface, he engaged Mr. Holt in conversation: he was
invited to join the excursion to Wolfe's Cove, and stepped over the side of the ship after
the others.

'Reginald! take care of your sisters till my return. They need not go on shore till the afternoon.
Au revoir;' and he kissed his hand gaily to Miss Armytage and Jay, who stood at the vessel's
side. But Robert could not help remembering their expressed anxiety to get ashore, and the
captain's fascinations were lost upon him for a good part of their expedition.

Always thus: postponing business and anybody else's pleasure to his own whim or amusement,--for
he was intrinsically the most selfish of men,--Captain Armytage had hitherto contrived never
to succeed in any undertaking. He considered himself the victim of unprecedented ill-fortune,
forgetting that he had himself been his own evil genius. His son could hardly be otherwise
than a chip of the old block. Now he turned away from the taffrail with a scowl; and, vowing
that he would not be mewed up while 'the governor' was enjoying himself, presently hailed a
boat and went ashore, leaving his sisters to walk up and down the deck and long for the land.

CHAPTER VI.

CONCERNING AN INCUBUS.

Andy carried his wrath at the captain's company so far as to shake his fist close to that gentleman's
bland and courteous back, while he bent forward from his thwart in speaking to Mr. Holt; which
gestures of enmity highly amused the Canadian boatmen, as they grinned and jabbered in patois
(old as the time of Henri Quatre) among themselves.

'The deludherer?' muttered Andy. 'He'd coax a bird off a three wid his silver tongue. An' he
must come betune my own gintlemen an' their frind--the old schamer!' Here a tremendous blow
was lodged (in pantomime) under the captain's ribs. 'Sure, of coorse, they can't be up to his
thricks, an' he an ould sojer!' And here Andy let fly vivaciously beneath his unconscious adversary's
left ear, restraining the knuckles within about half an inch of his throat.

'Are you speaking to me, my good man?' said the captain, suddenly wheeling round upon Andy,
who sat face to his back.

'Is it me, yer honour?' and the dolorous submissiveness of Andy's countenance was a change
marvellous to behold. 'What could the likes of me have to say to the likes of you, sir?'

Arthur Wynn's gravity was fairly overcome, and he got a heavy fit of coughing in his pocket-handkerchief.
Captain Armytage gazed keenly at Andy for a moment, during which he might as well have stared
at a plaster bust, for all the discoveries he made in the passive simple countenance.

'Six hours' knapsack drill might do that fellow some good,' said the officer, resuming his
former position and the thread of conversation together. 'In answer to your inquiry, Mr. Holt,
I have not quite decided whether to settle in Upper or Lower Canada.'

'Then, sir, you must know very little of either,' was the blunt reply. 'There's no more comparison
between them than between settling in Normandy and in North Britain.'

'Can't say I should like either location,' rejoined the captain, with his brilliant smile.
'But I've been here with the regiment, and am not quite without personal experience. The life
of a seigneur would just suit me; if I could find an eligible seignory for sale'--

Hiram Holt stared. A man who had come out with his family in an emigrant vessel, talking of
purchasing a seignory! But this was a magnificent manner of the captain's. Sixpence in his
pocket assumed the dimensions of a sovereign in his imagination.

'Some of them are thirty thousand acres in extent,' Mr. Holt remarked drily.

'Ah, yes, quite a little principality: one should enjoy all the old feudal feelings, walking
about among one's subject censitaires, taking a paternal interest in their concerns, as well
as bound to them by pecuniary ties. I should build a castellated baronial residence, pepper-box
turrets, etcetera, and resist modern new lights to the uttermost.'

'As soon a living man chained to a dead man, as I would hamper myself with that old-world feudality!'
exclaimed the Western pioneer. 'Why, sir, can you have seen the wretched worn-out land they
scratch with a wretched plough, fall after fall, without dreaming of rotation of crops, or
drainage, or any other improvement? Do you remember the endless strips of long narrow fields
edging the road, opening out of one another, in miserable divisions of one or two acres, perhaps,
just affording starvation to the holders? What is the reason that where vast quantities of
wheat were formerly exported, the soil now grows hardly enough for the people to eat? Sir,
the country is cut up and subdivided to the last limits that will support even the sleepy life
of a habitan; all improvement of every kind is barred; the French population stand still in
the midst of our go-ahead age: and you would prolong the system that causes this!'

It was one of the few subjects upon which Mr. Holt got excited; but he had seen the evils of
feudalism in the strong light of Western progress. Captain Armytage, for peace' sake, qualified
his lately expressed admiration, but was met again by a torrent of words--to the unalloyed
delight of Andy, who was utterly unable to comprehend the argument, but only hoped 'the schamer
was gettin' more than he bargained for.'

'Pauperism will be the result, sir; the race is incorrigible in its stupid determination to
do as its forefathers did, and nothing else. Lower Canada wants a clearing out, like what you
are getting in Ireland, before a healthy regeneration can set in. The religion is faulty; the
habits and traditions of the race are faulty; Jean Baptiste is the drone in our colonial hive.
He won't gather honey: he will just live, indolently drawling through an existence diversified
by feast and fast days; and all his social vices flourish in shelter of this seignorial system--this--this
upas-tree which England is pledged to perpetuate:' and Mr. Holt struck his hand violently on
the gunwale of the boat, awakening a responsive grin of triumph from Andy.

The captain was spared a reply by the boat just then touching the wharf; and while they were
landing, and lodging the luggage in Pat M'Donagh's house till the starting of the Montreal
boat next afternoon, we may say a few words concerning the feudal system extant in Lower Canada
at the period when this story begins.

Henri Quatre was the monarch under whose sway the colony was originated. Champlain and De Levi
knew no better than to reproduce the landed organization of France, with its most objectionable
feature of the forced partition of estates, in the transatlantic province, for defensive purposes,
against the numerous and powerful Indian tribes. Military tenure was superadded. Every farmer
was perforce also a soldier, liable at any time to be called away from his husbandry to fight
against the savage Iroquois or the aggressive British. Long after these combative days had
passed away the military tenure remained, with its laws of serfdom, a canker at the roots of
property; and thinking men dreaded to touch a matter so inwound with the very foundations of
the social fabric in Lower Canada. But in 1854 and 1859 legislative acts were passed which
have finally abolished the obnoxious tenure; each landholder, receiving his estate in freehold,
has paid a certain sum, and the Province in general contributed £650,000 as indemnity to those
whose old-established rights were surrendered for the public weal. Eight millions of inhabited
acres were freed from the incubus, and Lower Canada has removed one great obstacle in the way
of her prosperity.

At the period when Hiram Holt expressed himself so strongly on the subject, a grinding vassalage
repressed the industry of the habitans. Though their annual rent, as censitaires or tenants,
was not large, a variety of burdensome obligations was attached. When a man sold his tenure,
the seigneur could demand a fine, sometimes one-twelfth of the purchase money; heavy duties
were charged on successions. The ties of the Roman Catholic Church were oppressive. Various
monopolies were possessed by the seigneurs. The whole system of social government was a reproduction,
in the nineteenth century, of the France of the fifteenth.

Mr. Holt was somewhat cooled when his party had reached the citadel, through streets so steep
that the drive to their summit seemed a feat of horsemanship. Here was the great rock whence
Jacques Cartier, first of European eyes, viewed the mighty river in the time of our Henry VIII.,
now bristling with fortifications which branch away in angles round the Upper Town, crowned
with a battery of thirty-two pounders, whose black muzzles command the peaceful shipping below.
Robert Wynn could not help remarking on that peculiarly Canadian charm, the exquisite clearness
of the air, which brought distant objects so near in vision that he could hardly believe Point
Levi to be a mile across the water, and the woods of the isle of Orleans more than a league
to the eastward.

Captain Armytage had many reminiscences of the fortress, but enjoyed little satisfaction in
the relating of any; for nothing could get the seignorial tenure out of Mr. Holt's head, and
he drove in sentences concerning it continually.

Outside the Castle gates the captain remembered important business, which must preclude him
from the pleasure of accompanying his friends to Wolfe's Landing.

'Well, sir, I hope you now acknowledge that the seignorial system is a blot on our civilisation.'

'I wish it had never been invented!' exclaimed the captain, very sincerely. And, with the gracefullest
of bows, he got quit of Mr. Holt and his pet aversion together.

Hiram's features relaxed into a smile. 'I knew I could convince him; he appears an agreeable
companion,' remarked Mr. Holt, somewhat simply. But the subject had given the keynote to the
day; and in driving along the road to Cape Rouge, parallel with the St. Lawrence, he was finding
confirmations for his opinion in most things they met and passed. The swarming country, and
minute subdivisions of land, vexed Hiram's spirit. Not until they entered the precincts of
the battlefield, and he was absorbed in pointing out the spots of peculiar interest, did the
feudality of the Province cease to trouble him.

All along the river was bordered by handsome villas and pleasure-grounds of Quebec merchants.
Cultivation has gradually crept upon the battlefield, obliterating landmarks of the strife.
The rock at the base of which Wolfe expired has been removed, and in its stead rises a pillar
crowned with a bronze helmet and sword, and is inscribed:

  HERE DIED WOLFE, VICTORIOUS.

Not till seventy-five years after the deed which makes his fame was this memorial erected:
a tardy recognition of the service which placed the noblest of our dependencies--a Province
large as an old-world empire--in British hands.

CHAPTER VII.

THE RIVER HIGHWAY.

'Well, Misther Robert! if ever I laid my eyes on the likes of such a ship, in all my born days!'

With this impressive ejaculation, Andy Callaghan backed on the wharf to take a completer view
of the wondrous whole. His untravelled imagination had hitherto pictured steamers after the
one pattern and similitude of those which sailed upon the river Lee and in the Cove of Cork--craft
which had the aquatic appendages of masts and decks, and still kept up an exterior relation
with the ship tribe. But this a steamboat! this great three-storied wooden edifice, massive-looking
as a terrace of houses!

'An' a hole in the side for a hall-door!' soliloquized Andy. 'No, but two holes, one for the
quality an' the other for the commonality. An' no deck at all at all for the people to take
the air, only all cabins intirely! If it isn't the very dead image of a side of a sthreet swimmin'
away!'

Andy's outspoken remarks attracted some notice when he was fairly aboard.

'This is the fore-cabin, and you must try to keep quiet,' said Arthur. 'We'll be off presently;
and whatever you do,' he added in a low tone, 'keep clear of that bar'--indicating a counter
recess where liquors were sold, and where customers had congregated already.

'Never fear, sir,' was the reply; 'though they've no right to put it there forenent us, an'
they knowin' that the bare sight of it is like fire to tow with many a one. But sure they're
not thinkin' only how to get money:' and Mr. Callaghan ended his moral reflections by sitting
down beside a family of small children, who squalled in different keys, and treating one of
them to a ride on his foot, which favour, being distributed impartially, presently restored
good humour.

'An' isn't there any peep of the fresh air allowed us at all?' inquired Andy of a man near
him, whose peculiar cut of garments had already excited his curiosity. 'It's a quare vessel
that hasn't aither a sail or deck: we might all go to the bottom of the say in this big box,
'athout bein' a bit the wiser.'

The emigrant with the six children looked rather anxious, and hugged her baby closer, poor
woman; glancing for a minute at the bar, where her husband was sipping gin, and already brawling
with an American. But as the apple-complexioned man whom Andy addressed happened to be a French
habitan, limited in English at the best of times, the Irish brogue puzzled him so thoroughly,
that he could only make a polite bow, and signify his ignorance of Monsieur's meaning.

'Maybe he's an Injin,' thought Andy; 'but sure I thought thim savages wore no clothes, and
he has an iligant blue coat an' red tie. I wondher would it be any good to thry the Irish wid
him;' and, as an experiment, he said something in the richest Munster dialect. The Canadian's
politeness was almost forgotten in his stare of surprise, and he took the earliest opportunity
of changing his place, and viewing Andy respectfully from afar.

But if it had a repellent effect on the habitan, it exerted a strong attractive force upon
other of the passengers. Mr. Callaghan was never happier than when at the focus of a knot of
his countrymen, for his talents were essentially social; and before the evening was over, his
musical feats with voice and violin had so charmed the aforesaid Canadian, that he came up
and made him another of the polite bows.

'Very much obliged to you, sir, if I only knew what you were sayin',' replied Andy, with equal
courtesy.

'He's inviting you to his daughter's wedding,' interpreted one of the sailors who stood by;
'you and the fiddle.'

'With all the pleasure in life, sir,' promptly replied Andy, as he imitated the bow of the
worthy habitan to perfection. 'I'm always ready for any fun-goin'. Ask the old gentleman when
and where it's to be,' he continued, jogging the interpreter with his elbow.

'The day after to-morrow, at a village near Montreal;' upon learning which, Andy's countenance
fell, and the festive vision faded from his ken. 'Maybe it's in China I'd be by that time,'
said he, with incorrect notions of geography; 'but I'm obliged to you all the same, sir, an'
wherever I am I'll drink her health, if 'twas only in a glass of wather. I'll have a pain in
me back if I bow much longer' added Andy sotto voce; 'I don't know how he's able to keep it
up at all.'

'Why, where are you going to?' asked the sailor, laughing; 'this ain't the way to China by
a long chalk.'

'Going to make me fortune,' replied Andy boldly, as he dropped the violin into its case and
latched the cover tightly, as if a secret were locked in. While no more idea had he of his
destination, nor plan for future life, poor faithful peasant, than the fine Newfoundland dog
which slept not far from him that night in the fore-cabin, a mass of creamy curls.

Meanwhile, all the evening, and all the night through, the noble steamer stemmed the broad
brimming flood, steadily onwards, casting behind her on the moonlit air a breath of dark smoke
ruddy with sparks, at every palpitation of her mighty engine-heart. Past black pine forests
to the edge of the shore; past knots of white cottages centred round the usual gleaming metal
spire; past confluence of other rivers, dark paths joining the great continental highway; blowing
off steam now and then at young roadside towns, where upon wooden wharves, waited passengers
and freight in the moonlight, swallowing into either mouth all presented to her, and on untiringly
again. Robert Wynn stayed on the small open poop astern, gazing at the picturesque panorama,
half revealed, half shaded by the silvery beams, long after the major part of the passengers
were snug in their state rooms or berths below. With the urging of the fire-driven machinery
he could hear mingled the vast moan of the river sweeping along eastwards. It saddened him,
that never-silent voice of 'the Father of Waters.' Memories of home came thronging round him--a
home for him extinct, dead, till in this distant land he should create another. At the threshold
of a great undertaking, before hand has been put to work it out, the heart always shrinks and
shivers, as did his here. Looking upon the length and breadth of all that had to be done, it
seemed too hard for him.

But not so when next morning he arose from a few hours' sleep, and beheld the bright sunshine
lighting up the glorious Canadian world. Looming giants by moonlight are reduced to very ordinary
obstacles by daylight; and the set of desponding thoughts which had weighed upon the young
man as he contemplated the inky river and darkling country, seemed now to belong to another
phase of being. Despondent! with the wide free world to work in, and its best prizes lying
beside the goal, ready for capture by the steady heart and active hand. Robert felt almost
as if that shadowy home in the forest were already built, already peopled with the dear old
faces he had left behind. The pure fresh air--clear as is rarely breathed in Europe (for it
is as if in our Old World the breath of unnumbered nations has for centuries been soiling the
elements)--the richly coloured scene, were a cordial to his young brain. The steamer was fast
approaching the isle of St. Helen's; and beyond, against a background of purple mountain, lay
'the Silver Town,' radiant with that surface glitter peculiar to Canadian cities of the Lower
Province; as if Montreal had sent her chief edifices to be electro-plated, and they had just
come home brightly burnished. In front was the shining blue current of the St. Lawrence, escaped
from a bewildering perplexity of islets and rapids, which had apparently ruffled its temper
not a little.

'Part of our Ottawa flows here,' said Mr. Holt, glancing at the stream with a sort of home
affection--'our clear emerald Ottawa, fresh from the virgin wilderness; and it hasn't quite
mingled with its muddy neighbour yet, no more than we Westerns can comfortably mingle with
the habitans and their old-world practices down here. You see, Wynn, the St. Lawrence has been
running over a bed of marl for miles before it reaches Lake St. Louis; and the Ottawa has been
purified by plenty of rocks and rapids; so they don't suit very well--no more than we and the
habitans--ha! ha!' Mr. Holt was vastly amused by the similitude. He pointed to a very distinctly
marked line of foam wavering on the river surface, and said, 'There's the demarcation.'

'I am glad it is of such an evanescent nature, sir,' replied Robert. He might have said how
much grander the river became when all brawling was forgotten, and both currents fused into
one glorious stream.

'Now,' said Arthur, with the contrariety of youth (and aside, as is written in stage-plays),
'I'm certain these French Canadians are not so black as they're painted. I like those sociable
white villages round the tin spires; and the guide-book says the people are amiable and civil.
I'll investigate that subject, Bob.'

'I would advise you to investigate breakfast just now,' was the reply, as the steward's bell
swung forth its summons. Then commenced a procession of passengers to the eating-room; through
the length of the sumptuously furnished saloon, where the richest Persian carpets, marble tables,
brilliant chandeliers, and mirrors, were at the service of the public; by a narrow staircase
amidships down to the lowest storey of the vessel, a long apartment lit by candles, and lined
at the sides with curtained rows of berths. The usual pause followed for the advent of the
ladies: nobody sat down till they had come from their cabin on the middle deck, and established
themselves wheresoever they listed.

'That's like Irish politeness' whispered Arthur, whose good spirits were always talkative.
'My father, dear old gentleman, would take off his hat to a petticoat on a bush, I do believe.'

The company was very mixed, and quite as much conversation went on in French as in English.
It seemed to the strangers as if the balance of gentlemanly deportment, and yet vivacity of
manner, might possibly lie on the side of those who spoke the former tongue. Next to Arthur
sat the sallow States'-man, bolting his breakfast with unconscionable speed, and between whiles,
in a high treble voice, volunteering his opinion pretty freely on Canadian matters, as if he
were endowed with a special commission to set them right. Badly as Hiram Holt thought of the
seignorial system, he was perforce driven to defend it in some measure, much to Arthur's delectation;
but he soon discovered that to carry war into the enemy's country was his best policy, so he
seized the institution of slavery in his canine teeth, and worried it well. The States'-man
thought that a gentleman might be permitted to travel without being subject to attacks on his
country: Mr. Holt observed that he thought precisely the same, which species of agreement closed
the conversation. And the States'-man relieved his feelings subsequently by whittling a stick
from the firewood into impalpable chips, with his heels resting on the apex of the saloon stove.
Kind-hearted Hiram Holt had meanwhile more than half repented his hostility.

'Tell you what, sir,' said he, going up and extending his hand, 'it wasn't the matter, but
the manner of your talk that raised my dander awhile since. I agree in most of what you say
about this Province here, and I hope as much as you do that the last badge of feudalism may
soon be swept away.'

The American put his bony pale hand almost sullenly into the Canadian's brawny palm, and after
suffering the pressure, returned to his interesting pursuit of whittling, which he continued
in silence for the rest of the voyage.

CHAPTER VIII.

'JEAN BAPTISTE' AT HOME.

After seeing most of the thoroughfares of Montreal, and receiving the set of sensations experienced
by all new-comers and recorded in all books of Canadian travel--principally wondering at the
incongruities of French and English nationality grafted together, and coherent as the segments
of the fabled centaur--the active commerce of a British port carried on beneath the shadow
of walled-in convents suggesting Belgium--friars endued with long black robes, passing soldiers
clothed in the immemorial scarlet--a Rue Notre Dame and a St. James's Street in neighbourhood--the
brothers witnessed another phase of American life as they dined at a monster table-d'hôte in
the largest hotel of the city. The imperial system of inn-keeping originated in the United
States has been imported across the border, much to the advantage of British subjects; and
nothing can be a queerer contrast than the Englishman's solitary dinner in a London coffee-room,
and his part in the vast collective meals of a transatlantic hotel.

'New to this sort of thing, I should imagine?' said the gentleman next beside Robert, in a
particularly thin, wiry voice.

'Yes, quite a stranger,' answered Robert, looking round, and seeing that the speaker was a
person with a sharp nose and small keen black eyes.

'So I thought; your looks betray it. Everything seems queer, I guess. Intending to be a settler,
eh?' Then, without waiting for an answer, 'That's right: I always welcome the infusion of young
blood into our colony, particularly gentle blood, for we are a rough set, mister, and want
polish--and--and--all that.'

These deferential words, uttered in the deferential manner of inferiority to acknowledged excellence,
certainly pleased Robert; for what heart is unsusceptible to subtle flattery? And of all modes
of influence, men are most easily flattered or disparaged by reference to what is no worthiness
or fault of their own--the social station in which it has pleased the Creator that they should
enter this world. The keen brain behind the keen eyes knew this well; the fact had oiled a
way for his wedge many a time. What was his motive for endeavouring to ingratiate himself with
young Wynn for the next twenty minutes?

'Now, mister, if it's a fact that you be settling, I can give you a chance of some of the finest
lots of land ever offered for sale in Montcalm township. A friend of mine has a beautiful farm
there that would just suit you; best part cleared and under fence--fine water privilege--land
in good heart, and going, I may say, dirt cheap.'

Robert felt much obliged for the interest in his welfare which prompted this eligible offer.
'But, unfortunately, I have very little money to invest,' said he carelessly. The swift penetrating
glance that followed from his companion was unseen, as he crumbled his biscuit on the table-cloth.
'I am rather disposed to try the backwoods,' he added.

'The bush!' in accents of amazement. 'The bush! it may do very well for labourers, but for
a gentleman of your pretensions, it would be misery--wholly unsuitable, sir--wholly unsuitable.
No, no, take my advice, and settle where the advantages of civilisation--the comforts of life
to which you have been accustomed--are accessible. A few thousand dollars'--

'I regret to say,' Robert interposed, 'that even one thousand is immensely more than I possess,'
turning to the Canadian with a frank smile, which was by no means reduplicated in the sharp
face. And from the era of that revelation, conversation unaccountably flagged.

'Do you know to whom you talked at table?' asked Hiram Holt afterwards. He had been sitting
some way farther up at the other side. 'One of the most noted land-jobbers in the country--a
man who buys wild lands at three shillings an acre, to sell them again at ten or fifteen, if
he can; and he never loses an opportunity of driving a trade. His bargain of a cleared farm
is probably some worn-out dilapidated location not worth half-a-dollar an acre till hundreds
have been spent on it.'

'Then I've gained one benefit by being poor,' said Robert; 'nobody can have a motive for over-reaching
me'--which was philosophic consolation.

Mr. Holt's business would not permit him to leave till next evening. And so the Wynns, continuing
to lionize, looked into the vast but dreary Romish cathedral, which seats ten thousand people
in its nine spacious aisles and seven chapels; clambered to the roof, and viewed the city from
a promenade at an elevation of 120 feet; and then drove to that special beauty of Montreal--the
mountain. This is a hill more than 500 feet in height, and clothed from head to foot with the
richest verdure of woods; among which grow the most delicious apples extant since Paris selected
one as a prize. From the summit a landscape of level country stretches below westwards; in
middle, distant villages; on the horizon, the Ottawa confluence, bounding Montreal Island and
forming others. Southwards, across the St. Lawrence, the hills of Vermont far away; nearer,
the fertile valley of the Richelieu.

'Let's go off to one of the habitan villages,' said Arthur suddenly. 'Dismiss the calèche,
and we will walk back. I'll ask for a drink of water in one of the cottages just to scrape
acquaintance.'

'Furbish up your French, too,' said Robert, 'for they do gabble it fast. I heard a fellow chattering
in the steerage, coming up the river yesterday morning: by the way, he and Andy had struck
up a friendship: and such bowing as they had to each other's incomprehensible lingo!'

'I wonder what he is doing to-day,' said Arthur reflectively; 'he asked me so particularly
whether we should want him again till the evening.'

'Found out a nest of Irish somewhere, I suppose.'

'There's a fellow taking off his hat to us,' remarked Arthur, as they passed a carter. 'Everybody
seems to bow to everybody in this country. But did you ever see such an old-fashioned vehicle
as he drives? And he keeps talking to himself and his horse all the way, apparently.'

Rapidly walking down the fine road to the plain, they were not long in nearing a group of neat
white houses round the invariable shining steeple.

'The village looks as sociable as the people,' said Robert. 'How neat everything seems!--Hallo,
Arthur, we've come in for some festivity or other, by all the gay ribbons about.'

'Bon jour, Madame,' said Arthur boldly, to a tidy old lady, sitting in her green verandah.
'Nous sommes des étrangers--I'd like to ask her what it's all about,' he whispered confidentially
to Robert; 'but I'm out of my depth already.'

The aged Canadienne arose, with the politeness so natural to her Gallic descent, and bade them
welcome. But sounds issuing from the opposite house riveted their attention. 'As sure as I'm
here, that's Andy's violin,' exclaimed Arthur; 'I'd know his scrape anywhere;' and he crossed
the road in a moment.

Without doubt Andy was the player, ay, and the performer too; for he was dancing a species
of quickstep solo, surrounded by a circle of grinning and delighted habitans. The most perfect
gravity dwelt in his own countenance meanwhile, alloyed by just a spice of lurking fun in his
deep-set eyes, which altogether faded, as a candle blown out, when suddenly he perceived the
accession to the company. Silence succeeded the dead blank on his features, down hung the violin
and its bow on either side, and the corners of his mouth sunk into a dismal curve.

'Go on, old boy--scrape away,' shouted Arthur hilariously. 'So many pretty faces would inspire
anybody;' and whether it was that the black-eyed Canadian damsels felt the compliment through
the foreign idiom, there was considerable blushing and bridling as the speaker's glance travelled
round the group.

They deserved his encomium. The slight sprightly type of dark beauty abounded; and so prettily
decked out with bright ribbons and flowers, that it was evident the tastefulness which renders
French modistes unrivalled had not died out in these collateral relatives of the nation. Forward
stepped Monsieur, the master of the house and father of the bride, begging that Messieurs would
be so benevolent as to seat themselves, and would honour him by partaking of refreshment; both
which requests Messieurs were nothing loth to fulfil. It was hardly to be realized that these
were the besotted habitans, the unimprovable race, the blotch on the fair face of Canadian
civilisation; these happy-looking, simple-minded people. Hiram Holt was a slanderer. Full an
hour passed before the Wynns could get away from the embarrassing hospitalities and politeness
of the good villagers, who shook hands all round at parting in most affectionate style. As
for Andy, much to his own discomfort, he was kissed by his host.

'Now I could ondherstand if it was the missus that shaluted me,' said he, rubbing across his
cheek with his cuff as soon as he was on the road; 'throth an' they're all very fond of me
intirely, considherin' they never laid eyes on me till this mornin', barrin' himself. An' I
never see nater houses--they're as clean as a gintleman's; you might ate off the flure. If
only the people wud forget that queer talk they have, an' spake like Christians, that a body
could know what they're sayin', 'twould be a deal more comfortable.'

'And how could you get on without understanding them?' asked Arthur.

'Oh, 'twas aisy enough sometimes; for whin they wanted me to come to dinner they had only to
show me the table; and when they wanted me to play, they only rubbed across their arm this
way, and said, "Jawer, jawer" (I brought away that word, anyhow,' added Mr. Callaghan, with
great satisfaction). 'All other times they spake to me I bowed plinty, and that did the business.
But there was a man alongside me at the dinner that had a few words of English; an' he tould
me that this time of the year they all marries to be ready against the winter. I likes that
fashion, Misther Robert;' and herewith Andy heaved a little sigh, thinking perhaps of a certain
pretty blue-eyed Mary in Ireland.

'Put your best foot foremost, Callaghan,' said Mr. Wynn; 'we shall scarcely reach town in time;'
and all three quickened their pace.

'I'll never believe a syllable against the habitans again,' said Arthur. 'Their old-fashioned
politeness is a perfect relief from the bluff manners of most other Canadians. They seem to
me to have a lot of virtues,--cleanliness, good-humour, good-nature,--and I like their habit
of living altogether, children settled round the parent tree like branches of a banyan. We
would give a trifle to be able to do it ourselves, Bob;' and the smile with which the brothers
met each other's eyes was rather wistful.

CHAPTER IX.

'FROM MUD TO MARBLE.'

Hiram Holt was proud of his ancestry. Not that he had sixteen quarterings whereof to boast,
or even six; his pedigree could have blazoned an escutcheon only with spade, and shuttle, and
saw, back for generations. But then, society all about him was in like plight; and it is a
strong consolation in this, as in matters moral, to be no worse than one's neighbours. Truly,
a Herald's College would find Canada a very jungle as to genealogy. The man of marble has had
a grandfather of mud, as was the case with the owner of Maple Grove.

And, instead of resenting such origin as an injury received from his progenitors, worthy Hiram
looked back from the comfortable eminence of prosperity whereunto he had attained, and loved
to retrace the gradual steps of labour which led thither. He could remember most of them; to
his memory's eye the virgin forest stretched for unknown and unnumbered miles west and northward
of the settler's adventurous clearing, and the rude log shanty was his home beside the sombre
pines. Now the pines were dead and gone, except a few isolated giants standing gloomily among
the maple plantations; but the backwoodsman's shanty had outlived all subsequent changes.

Here, in the wide courtyard to the rear of Mr. Holt's house, it was preserved, like a curious
thing set apart in a museum--an embodiment of the old struggling days embalmed. The walls of
great unhewn logs fastened at the corners by notching; the crevices chinked up with chips and
clay; the single rude square window shuttered across; the roof of basswood troughs, all blackened
with age; the rough door, creaking on clumsy wooden hinges when Mr. Holt unlocked it,--these
were not encouraging features, viewed by the light of a future personal experience. Robert
stole a glance at Arthur as they stepped inside the low dark shed, and, as Arthur had with
similar motives also stolen a glance at Robert, their eyes naturally met, and both laughed.

They had been thinking a twin thought--'How will my brother like such quarters as this in the
forest?'

'A queer concern,' remarked Arthur in a low voice, and rubbing his chin.

'Rather!' replied Robert, looking equally dubious.

'I like to show the shanty to youngsters,' said Mr. Holt, as he turned from pushing back the
shutter, 'that they may see what they have to expect. From such a start as this we Canadians
have all waked up into opulence--that is, the hardworking share of us; and there's room enough
for tens of thousands to do the same off in the bush.'

'I hope so, sir,' was the least desponding remark of which Robert could think. For the naked
reality of a forest life came before him as never previously. The halo of distance had faded,
as he stood beside the rude fireplace, fashioned of four upright limestone slabs in a corner,
reaching to a hole in the roof, down which the wind was howling just now. It was rather a bleak
look-out, notwithstanding the honeyed promises of the old settler pouring on his ear.

'To be sure there is. Fortune's at your back in the bush; and you haven't, as in the mother
country, to rise by pushing others down. There's no impassable gulf separating you from anything
you choose to aim at. It strikes me that the motto of our capital is as good as a piece of
advice to the settler--"Industry, Intelligence, and Integrity"--with a beaver as pattern of
the first two principles, anyhow. So recollect the beaver, my young chaps, and work like it.'

'I don't remember the building of this,' he added; 'but every stick was laid by my father's
own hands, and my mother chinked between them till all was tight and right. I tell you I'm
prouder of it than of a piece of fancy-work, such as I've seen framed and glazed. I love every
log in the old timbers.' And Mr. Holt tapped the wall affectionately with his walking-staff.
'It was the farthest west clearing then, and my father chose the site because of the spring
yonder, which is covered with a stone and civilised into a well now-a-days.'

'And is the town so modern as all that comes to?' said Robert.

'Twenty years grows a city in Canada,' replied Mr. Holt, somewhat loftily. 'Twenty years between
the swamp and the crowded street: while two inches of ivy would be growing round a European
ruin, we turn a wilderness into a cultivated country, dotted with villages. The history of
Mapleton is easily told. My father was the first who ever built a sawmill on the river down
there, and the frame-houses began to gather about it shortly. Then he ventured into the grist
line; and I'm the owner of the biggest mills in the place now, with half-a-dozen of others
competing, and all doing a fair business in flour, and lumber for exportation. You see in this
land we've room enough for all, and no man need scowl down another of the same trade. 'Taint
so in England, where you must knock your bread out of somebody else's mouth.'

'Not always, sir,' said Robert, 'nor commonly, I hope.'

'I forgot you were a fresh importation,' observed Mr. Holt with a satisfied chuckle. 'You ain't
colonized yet. Well, let's come and look at something else.'

Meanwhile Arthur had measured the dimensions of the shanty, by pacing along and across: sixteen
feet one way, twelve the other. Narrow limits for the in-door life of a family; but the cottage
had somewhat grown with their growth, and thrown out a couple of small bed-chambers, like buds
of incipient shanties, from the main trunk. A curiosity of wood-craft it looked, so mossy,
gnarled, and weather-beaten, that one could easily have believed it had sprung from the ground
without the intervention of hands, a specimen of some gigantic forest fungus.

'I'll leave a charge in my will that it's not to be disturbed,' said Hiram. ''Twould be sacrilege
to move a log of the whole consarn. D'ye hear, Sam?'

His son had just come up and shaken hands; for this was a matutinal expedition of Mr. Holt
and his guests round the farm. Being given to habits of extreme earliness, the former was wont
to rouse any one in the house whose company he fancied, to go with him in his morning walks;
and the Wynns had been honoured by a knocking-up at five o'clock for that purpose. Mr. Holt
had strode into their room, flung open the window shutters and the sash with a resounding hand
which completely dissipated sleep, and rendered it hardly matter of choice to follow him, since
no repose was to be gained by lying in bed. Sam's clear brown eyes sparkled as he saw the victims
promenading after his tall father at the Gothic hour of six, and marked Arthur furtively rubbing
his eyes.

'You're tremendously early people here,' remarked Arthur, when young Holt joined them. 'I had
a mind to turn round and close the shutters again, but was afraid I might affront your father.'

'Affront him! oh no; but he'd just come again and again to rouse you, till you were compelled
to submit in self-defence. He wakes up young people on principle, he says.'

'Well, he practises his precepts,' rejoined Arthur, 'and seems to have trained his children
in the same.'

'Yes, he has made us all practical men; seven chips of the old block,' observed Sam.

'Seven brothers!' ejaculated Arthur. 'I saw only three last night. And are they all as tall
as you?'

'About forty-four feet of length among us,' said Sam. 'We're a long family in more ways than
one;' and he looked down from his altitude of seventy-five inches on the young Irishman.

'It is quite a pleasant surprise to see your sister,' Arthur remarked.

'Bell hasn't kept up the family tradition of height, I must say. She's a degenerate specimen
of the Holts;' and the speaker's brown eyes softened with a beam of fondness; 'for which reason,
I suppose, she'll not bear the name long.'

'And who's the lucky man?' asked Arthur, feeling an instant's disagreeable surprise, and blushing
at the sensation.

'Oh, out of half-a-dozen pretenders, 'twould be hard to say. We all marry early in Canada;
most of my contemporaries are Benedicts long ago. Three brothers younger than I have wives
and children, and are settled in farms and mills of their own.'

'And might I ask'--began Arthur, hesitating when the very personal nature of the inquiry struck
him.

'To be sure you might. Well, in the first place, I took a fancy to go through college, and
my father left me in Toronto for four years at the University of Upper Canada. That brought
me up to twenty-three years old; and then--for the last two years nobody would have me,' added
Sam, elevating his black brows.

'Perhaps you are too fastidious; I remark that about men who have nice sisters,' said Mr. Arthur,
with an air of much experience: 'now, Robert and I never see anybody so nice as Linda--at least
hardly ever.'

'A saving clause for Bell,' said her brother, laughing, 'which is polite, at all events. I
must tell her there's a young lady at home that you prefer immensely.'

Which he accordingly did, at the ensuing breakfast; and pretty Miss Holt pretended to take
the matter greatly to heart, and would not permit Arthur to explain; while mischievous Sam
scouted the notion of the unknown 'Linda' being his sister, except by the rather distant tie
of Adam and Eve.

What a plentiful table was this at Maple Grove! Several sorts of meat and wild fowl, several
species of bread and cake, several indigenous preserves; and Robert could not help going back
with aching heart to the scant supply of meagre fare at home; he saw again his sweet pale mother
trying to look cheerful over the poor meal, and Linda keeping up an artificial gaiety, while
her soul was sick of stints and privations. His face grew stern and sad at the memory; enjoyment
or amusement was criminal for him while they were suffering. So when, by and by, Mr. Holt invited
him and Arthur to remain for the winter months at Maple Grove, with a view of gaining insight
of Canadian manners and Canadian farming, he decidedly declined. He wished to push on at once;
whatever hardships lay before them, had better be combated as soon as possible. A lengthened
stay here would be a bad preparation for the wilderness life; they could scarcely but be enervated
by it.

'You're a brave lad,' said Mr. Holt, 'and I admire your pluck, though you are plunging right
into a pack of troubles; but the overcoming of each one will be a step in the ladder to fortune.
Now I'll go and get out the horses, and ride you over to Mr. Landenstein's office: he'll know
all about the wild lands, and perhaps has a cleared farm or two cheap.'

But unfortunately such farms did not suit Robert's pocket. One of two hundred acres, fifty
cleared and the rest bush, was offered for £240, with a wooden house thrown into the bargain;
but the purchaser's fancy for the forest was unconquerable: it puzzled even Mr. Holt. He returned
from Mapleton the proprietor of a hundred acres of bush in a newly settled western township,
and felt much the better and cheerier that his excursion had ended so. The future had something
tangible for his grasp now; and he only grudged every hour spent away from his sphere of labour
as an opportunity of advantage lost.

CHAPTER X.

CORDUROY.

'They wor very kind to us,' observed Andy, from his elevation in the waggon; 'an' this counthry
bates all the world at 'ating and dhrinking.'

This to Arthur Wynn, who was seated rather despondingly in front of the collection of boxes,
pots, and pails, which formed their stock-in-trade for bush life. Sam Holt and Robert were
walking on before the horse, a furlong ahead; but Arthur had dropped behind for meditation's
sake, and taken up his residence on the waggon for awhile, with his cap drawn over his eyes.
I dare say Miss Bell had something to do with the foolish boy's regret for leaving Maple Grove.

'Every day was like a Christmas or an Aisther,' continued Andy, who had no idea that any one
could prefer silence to conversation; 'an' the sarvints had parlour fare in the kitchen always,
an' a supper that was like a dinner, just before goin' to bed. Throth, they had fine times
of it--puddins an' pies, if you plaze: the bare lavins would feed a family at home. An' it's
the same, they tell me, in all the farmers' houses round about. I never thought to see so much
vittles.'

No reply could be elicited from Mr. Arthur Wynn but a grunt.

'Didn't you?' put in the driver, with a small sneer. Andy had deemed him too far distant to
catch his words, as he walked beside his horse.

'Why, then, you've long ears, my man; but sure it's kind for ye,' retorted Mr. Callaghan, his
eye twinkling wickedly. I fear that his subtle irony was lost upon its subject. 'Of coorse
I'm not used to ye're foreign food. Our vittles at home are a dale dacenter, though not so common.'

And Arthur, through his half-drowsy ears, was amused by the colloquy that ensued, in the course
of which Andy completely floored the Canadian by a glowing description of Dunore, delivered
in the present tense, but referring, alas! to a period of sixteen or twenty years previously.
But the smart black-eyed backwoodsman wound up with the utterly incredulous speech,--

'They left all them riches to come and settle in our bush! whew!' He jerked his whip resoundingly
upon the frying-pan and tin-kettle in the rear, which produced a noise so curiously illustrative
of his argument, that Arthur laughed heartily, and shook off his fit of blues.

The aspect of nature would have helped him to do that. The thousand dyes of the woods were
brilliant, as if the richest sunset had gushed from the heavens, and painted the earth with
a permanent glory of colour. A drapery of crimson and gold endued the maples; the wild bines
and briars were covered with orange and scarlet berries; the black-plumed pine trees rose solemnly
behind. A flat country, for the most part; and, as the travellers slowly receded westward,
settlements became sparse and small; the grand forests closed more densely round them; solitary
clearings broke the monotony of trees.

The first of anything that one sees or experiences remains stronger than all after impressions
on the memory. With what interest did the embryo settlers regard the first veritable log-hut
that presented itself, surrounded by half an acre of stumps, among which struggled potatoes
and big yellow squashes. A dozen hens pecked about; a consumptive-looking cow suspended her
chewing, as also did her master his hoeing, to gaze after the waggon, till it disappeared beyond
the square frame of forest which shut in the little clearing.

Again the long lines of stately oaks and firs, with a straight and apparently endless road
between them, like the examples of perspective in beginners' drawing-books, but with the vanishing
point always receding.

'I see they've turnpiked this road since I was on it before,' observed the driver.

'Where?' asked Andy, looking about. 'I don't see a turnpike--an' sure I ought to know a tollman's
dirty face in any place. Sorra house here at all at all, or a gate; or a ha'porth except trees,'
he added in a disgusted manner.

'There,' said the Canadian, pointing to a ploughed line along each side of the road, whence
the earth had been thrown up in the centre by a scraper; 'that's turnpiking.'

'Ye might have invented a new name,' rejoined the Irishman, with an offended air, 'an' not
be mislading people. I thought it was one of the ould pike-gates where I used to have to pay
fourpince for me, ass and car; an' throth, much as I hated it, I'd be a'most glad to see one
of the sort here, just for company's sake. A mighty lonesome counthry ye have, to be sure!'

'Well, we can't be far from Greenock now; and I see a bit of a snake fence yonder.'

It was another clearing, on a more enterprising scale than the last described; the forest had
been pushed back farther, and a good wooden house erected in the open space; zigzag rail fences
enclosed a few fields almost clear of stumps, and an orchard was growing up behind. A man in
a red shirt, who was engaged in underbrushing at a little distance, said that 'the town' was
only a mile away--Greenock, on the Clyde.

Alas for nomenclature! The waggon scrambled down a rather steep declivity, towards a dozen
houses scattered beside a stream: stumps stood erect in the single short street, and a ferry-boat
was the only craft enlivening the shore. A Greenock without commerce or warehouses, a Clyde
without wharves or ships, or the possibility of either--what mere travestie effected by a name!

'A nest of Scottish emigrants, I suppose,' said Robert Wynn, as he contemplated 'the town.'

'Yes, and they'll push their place up to something,' replied Sam Holt: 'if pluck and perseverance
can do it, they will. Only one enemy can ruin a Scotchman here, and that's the "drap drink."
Ten to one that in twenty years you find this ground covered with factories and thousands of
houses; that solitary store is the germ of streets of shops, and the tavern will expand into
half a score hotels. Sandy will do it all.'

'I'm afraid you could not speak so well of Irish progress.'

'Because the canker of their religion continues to produce its legitimate effects in most cases;
and the influence of whisky--the great bane of social life in our colony--is even more predominant
than over the lower class Scotch settlers. Still, they do infinitely better here than at home;
and you'll meet with many a flourishing Hibernian in the backwoods and pioneer cities.'

'I presume this is a pioneer city?' looking round at the handful of wooden shanties.

'Don't despise it; Rome had as small a beginning, and was manned by no more indomitable hands
and hearts than our frontier emigrants.'

'We are producing quite a sensation,' said Robert. For the major part of the inhabitants came
out of doors to view the strangers, with that curiosity which characterizes a new-born society;
many of the men bethought themselves of some business at the wooden tavern by the water-side,
where the waggon drew up and the new arrivals entered in.

A store where everything was sold, from a nail or a spool of 'slack' to a keg of spirits or
an almanac: sold for money when it could be had, for flour or wool or potash when it couldn't;
likewise a post-office, whither a stage came once a week with an odd passenger, or an odd dozen
of newspapers and letters; likewise the abode of a magistrate, where justice was occasionally
dispensed and marriages performed. The dwelling that united all these offices in its single
person, was a long, low, framed house, roofed with shingles, and but one storey in height;
proprietor, a certain canny Scot, named Angus Macgregor, who, having landed at Quebec with
just forty shillings in the world, was making rapid strides to wealth here, as a landed proprietor
and store-keeper without rivalry. Others of the clan Gregor had come out, allured by tidings
of his prosperity; and so the broad Doric of lowland Scotch resounded about the tavern table
almost as much as the Canadian twang.

All doing well. Labour was the sole commodity they possessed, and it sufficed to purchase the
best things of life in Canada, especially that slow upward rising in circumstances and possessions
which is one of the sweetest sensations of struggling humanity, and which only a favoured few
among the working classes can enjoy at home. Robert Wynn was almost as curious about their
affairs as they were about his; for he was energized afresh by every instance of progress,
and little inducement was required to draw from the settlers their own histories, which had
the single monotony running through each of gradual growth from poverty to prosperity.

'What sort of roads have you across the ferry to the Cedars?' inquired Sam Holt of mine host.

'The first part of the concession line is pretty good, but I canna say as much for the "corduroy"
afterwards: the riding's not so easy there, I guess.'

'Corduroy!' ejaculated Arthur.

'Oh, wait till you feel it,' said Sam, with much amusement in his eyes. 'It's indescribable.
I hope we won't meet in the dark, that's all.'

'Drivin' across ladders for ever, with the rungs very far apart,' explained a Canadian to Andy,
in the background, as the latter rubbed his finger-tips over the ribs in the material of his
pantaloons, and looked puzzled.

'An' what description of vahicle stands sich thratement?' asked Mr. Callaghan, 'an' what description
of baste?'

'Oxen is the handiest, 'cos they've the strongest legs,' returned his informant, with a fresh
puff of his pipe.

'Well, of all the counthries'--began Andy, for the twentieth time that day; and perhaps as
many as ten additional utterances of the ejaculation were forced by the discovery that he and
the gentlemen were to occupy the same sleeping apartment; but, above all, by the revelation
that behind a ragged curtain in the corner reposed two wayfaring women, going to join their
husbands in the woods, and having also a baby. The latter creature, not being at all overawed
by its company, of course screamed in the night whenever the fancy seized it; and good-natured
Andy found himself at one period actually walking up and down with the warm bundle of flannel
in his arms, patting it on the back soothingly.

Next morning they left the little settlement, and, crossing the ferry again, plunged into the
primeval forest. Robert felt as if that mock Clyde were the Rubicon of their fate.

'I leave the old degenerate life,' he murmured to himself, 'with all its traditions of ease.
I go forth to face Fortune in these wilds, and to win her, if ever sturdy toil of limb and
brain succeeded.'

This spirit of independence was manly, but Robert did not at the moment join to it the nobler
spirit of dependence on the Divine Disposer of events: self-trust filled his heart; and this
is the great snare of youth.

'You are looking unusually valorous,' said Sam Holt, who marched alongside. He had volunteered
to stay with them for their first fortnight of bush life, like a kind fellow as he was. Something
about these young Wynns had attracted his regard, and perhaps a touch of compassion. He would,
at least, help them to put up the shanty, he said.

And truly the road grew very bad; at a short bit of swamp they made their first acquaintance
with 'corduroy.' Sam explained the structure when the waggon had done bumping over it: trunks
of trees had been laid along the road as 'sleepers' in three continuous lines; and across them
round logs, close together by theory, but in practice perhaps a foot or two apart, with unknown
abysses of mud between.

They wished even for the corduroy expedient a little farther on, when the line became encumbered
with stumps left from the underbrushing, and which caught in the axletree every few score yards.
Now came the handspikes into action, which provident Sam had cut, and laid into the waggon
when the road was fair and smooth; for the wheels had to be lifted high enough to slip over
the obstacles. In the pauses of manual labour came the chilling thought, 'All this difficulty
between us and home.'

Sunlight faded from the tree-tops; and soon night was descending darkly among the pines.

'We must either camp in the woods, or get shelter at some settler's,' decided Sam. 'We'll try
a quarter of a mile farther, and see what it brings.' So away they went again, shouting at
the oxen, and endeavouring to steer the equipage free of mud-holes and stumps.

'I am afraid our cups and saucers are all in a smash,' said Arthur. Robert had a secret misgiving
to the same effect; but, then, crockeryware is a luxury to which no shanty-man has a right.
Andy rescued a washing basin and ewer, by wearing the former on his head and the latter on
his left arm--helmet and shield-wise; except at intervals, when he took his turn at handspiking.

A light gleamed through the trees, and a dog barked simultaneously: they were on the verge
of a clearing; and, hearing the voices outside, the owner of the house came forth to welcome
the travellers, with a heartiness widely different from the commonplace hospitality of more
crowded countries.

CHAPTER XI.

THE BATTLE WITH THE WILDERNESS BEGINS.

A roaring fire of logs upon the wide hearth, logs built up into walls and roof, logs wrought
into rough furniture of tables and stools--here, within the emigrant's hut, the all-encompassing
forest had but changed its shape. Man had but pressed it into his service; from a foe it had
become a friend; the wooden realm paid tribute, being subjugated.

The still life of the cabin was rude enough. No appliances for ease, not many for comfort,
as we in England understand the words. Yet the settler's wife, sitting by her wheel, and dressed
in the home-spun fruits thereof, had a well-to-do blooming aspect, which gaslight and merino
could not have improved; and the settler's boy, building a miniature shanty of chips in the
corner, his mottled skin testifying to all sorts of weather-beating, looking as happy as if
he had a toyshop at his command, instead of the word being utterly unknown in his experience;
and the baby, rolled up in the hollowed pine-log, slept as sweetly as if satin curtains enclosed
its rest. Back to Sam Holt's mind recurred words which he knew well: 'A man's life consisteth
not in the abundance of the things that he possesseth.'

The woman rose and curtsied. She had not been accustomed to make that respectful gesture for
a long time back; but something in the appearance of the strangers half involuntarily constrained
it.

'I needn't ask if you're Canadian born,' said Mr. Holt; 'you've the manners of the old country.'

'My father and mother were from Wiltshire, and so be I,' she answered, setting back her wheel,
and looking gratified at the implied commendation. 'But that be so long ago as I scarce remember.'

'And she made amends by marrying me,' said the settler, entering from the outer door, and latching
it behind him. 'Mary, get the pan and fix some supper quick. Them duck I shot won't be bad.
You see, I've been expectin' you along rather;' and he flung down an armful of wood, which
he began to arrange with architectural reference to the back-log and fore-stick.

'Expecting us?' exclaimed Robert Wynn.

'You're for lot fifteen in ninth concession, township of Gazelle? Wall, so I guessed; for I
heard from Zack Bunting who lives at the "Corner," that it was sold by Landenstein; and I calc'lated
you'd be along presently:' and he finished his fire-building by a touch with his foot, which
appeared to demolish much of his labour, but in reality conduced to his object of intensifying
the heat and blaze.

'Benny,' to the boy, who had sat on the ground staring at the new-comers, 'go tell your mother
to be spry.' The little fellow went accordingly, by the side door through which she had disappeared
a few minutes previously; and the Irish servant, planting himself on the vacated spot with
his toes to the fire comfortably, commenced to erect of the child's chips a two-storied mansion.

'You've got a good slice of bush there, back from the pond; though the cedars will be troublesome,
I guess.'

'Oh, we bargained for the cedars,' said Sam Holt. 'There's enough to clear without laying an
axe to them for many a day.'

'It's all the doing of that spring creek, running through the middle of the lot, as fine a
water-privilege as ever I see; but the cedars are where it gets to the pond. If the bed was
deepened down below, it's my opinion the swamp would be drained.'

'You seem to know the ground well,' said Robert, with interest.

'I guess I ought to, that have shot over it before ever a blazed line ran through them woods.
We was farthest west once, but that's over by a long spell; the neighbourhood's pretty thick
now, and the "Corner" will be a town shortly.'

'Well, if this is a thick neighbourhood, I should like to know his idea of a thin one,' said
Arthur, sotto voce, to Sam Holt. 'We have met only this house for miles.'

'Oh, they ain't many miles, only you thought they was, cos' I guess you ain't used to the stumps,'
put in the settler. 'The back lot to ours, of the same number, is took by a Scotchman, and
last week I run a blazed line across to his clearing through the bush; for you see I'm often
away, trapping or still-hunting, and Mary here thought she'd be a trifle less lonesome if she
had a way of going over the hill to her friend Mrs. Macpherson. The other way is round by the
"Corner," which makes it five miles full; but now Benny can run across of a message, by minding
the marks; can't you, my lad?'

'Yes, father,' answered the boy proudly. 'And I can chop a blaze myself, too.' Benny was not
much taller than an axe handle.

Arthur looked from the child round at the wife, who was often left alone in this solitude of
woods, and longed for the slender chain of a scarred line of trees between her and some other
woman. A healthy, firm outline of face, wholly unacquainted with nervousness; quiet, self-reliant,
hard-working; perhaps of a Dutch type of character. Her husband was a sturdy broad-set man,
with lithe limbs, and quick senses looking out from his clear-featured countenance: he had
a roving unsubdued eye, befitting the hunter more than the farmer.

'I wouldn't desire,' said the latter, seating himself on the end of the table, while his wife
superintended a pan of frizzling pork on the coals--'I wouldn't desire, for a feller that wanted
to settle down for good, a more promising location than yourn at the Cedars. The high ground
grows the very best sorts of hard wood--oak, sugar maple, elm, basswood. Not too many beech,
or I'd expect sand; with here and there a big pine and a handful of balsams. The underbrushing
ain't much, except in the swamp.'

'I'm glad to hear that,' said Mr. Holt, 'for the fall is going fast, and we'll have to work
pretty hard before snow comes.'

'So I'm thinkin'. But you ain't going to settle: you haven't the cut of it: you're settled
already.'

'How do you know?'

'Oh, you didn't listen as they did,' pointing his thumb towards the Wynns, 'when I fell to
talkin' of the ground. I know'd my men at once. Nor you didn't stare about as they did, as
if the house and fixins was a show at a copper ahead.'

'You must excuse our curiosity,' said Robert politely.

'Surely; every man that has eyes is welcome to use 'em,' replied the backwoodsman bluntly.
'We ain't got no manners in the bush, nor don't want 'em, as I tell Mary here, when she talks
any palaver. Now, wife, them pritters must be done;' and he left his seat on the table to pry
over her pan.

'Then take the cakes out of the bake-kettle, will you?' said Mary; 'and if them ducks be raw,
'tain't my fault, remember.' She was evidently a woman of few words, but trenchant.

Thus warned, her husband did not press the point, but took the stewing fowl under his own care,
displaying a practical experience of cookery won in many a day of bush life.

'These duck was shot on your pond, stranger; if you be a good hand with the gun, you'll never
want for fresh meat while that water holds together. The finest maskelonge and pickerel I ever
see was hooked out of it.'

Arthur's face brightened; for the sportsman instinct was strong in him, and he had been disappointed
hitherto by finding the woods along their track empty of game.

''Cos the critters have more sense than to wait by the road to be shot,' explained the backwoodsman,
as he dished up his stew--a sort of hodgepodge of wild-fowl, the theory of which would have
horrified an epicure; but the practical effect was most savoury.

Now the boy Benny had never in his small life seen any edifice nobler than a loghouse on the
ground-floor; and the upper storey which Mr. Callaghan had built with his chips seemed to him
as queer a phenomenon as a man having two heads.

'Well, only think of that!' exclaimed Andy; 'the boy doesn't know what a stairs is.'

'And how should he?' asked the father, rather sharply. 'He ha'n't seen nothin' but the bush.
One time I took him to Greenock, and he couldn't stop wonderin' what med all the houses come
together. For all that, he ha'n't a bad notion of chopping, and can drive a span of oxen, and
is growin' up as hardy as my rifle--eh, Benny?'

'He cut all the wood I wanted while you were away last time, Peter,' chimed in the mother.
So the strangers saw that the principle which leads parents to bore their unoffending visitors
with copybooks and the 'Battle of Prague,' is applicable to backwood accomplishments also.

As a general rule, conversation does not flourish in the bush. The settler's isolated life
is not favourable to exchange of thought, and events are few. Silence had fallen upon the woman
in this house to a remarkable degree, and become incorporated with her. She went about her
work quietly and quickly, speaking but five sentences in the course of the evening. The last
of these was to notify to her husband that 'the skins was ready.'

'We've no beds,' said he, with equal curtness. 'You must try and be snug in a wrap-up on the
floor to-night. More logs, Benny;' and additional wood was heaped down, while he brought forward
a bundle of bear and buffalo skins, enough to blanket them all. Mary had already picked up
the pine-log containing her baby, and taken it into the other room out of sight, whither her
husband followed; and Benny crept into a sort of bed-closet in the far corner.

All night long, through the outer darkness, came a sound as of a limitless sea upon a lonely
strand. Robert knew it for the wind wandering in the forest, and even in his home dreams it
mingled a diapason, until the early sun gleamed through the chinks of the door, and flung a
ray across his face. Simultaneously the poultry outside and the infant within woke up, commencing
their several noises; and the farmer, coming out, built up the fire, and hung down the bake-kettle
to heat for the breakfast bread. Then he invited his company to 'a wash' at the spring; and,
leading them by a wood path beside the house, they came to a pellucid pool fed by a rivulet,
which, after flowing over its basin, ran off rapidly to lower ground. Here Benny was flung
in by his father, though the water was quite deep enough to drown him; but he dived, and came
out buoyant as a coot.

'Now go fetch the cow, my lad, and help your mother to fix breakfast, while we walk round the
clearing.' But this morning she had an efficient coadjutor in the person of Andy Callaghan,
who dandled the baby while the cakes were being made, his sharp eye learning a lesson meantime;
and milked the cow while the child was being dressed; and cut slices of pork, superintending
its frizzling while the room was being set to rights. Three or four attempts to draw the silent
woman into conversation were utterly abortive.

'Troth, an' you're a jewil of a wife,' remarked the Irishman, when everything seemed done.
'I'll engage I won't have the good luck to get one wid her tongue in such good ordher.'

Mary Logan laughed. 'It be from having no folk to talk with,' she said.

'An' a sin an' a shame it is for himself to lave you alone,' rejoined Andy, looking complimentary.
'Now I want to know one thing that has been botherin' me ever since I came in here. What's
them strings of yallow stuff that are hangin' out of the rafthers, an' are like nothin' I see
in all my days, 'cept shavin's?'

'Sarce,' answered Mrs. Logan, looking up; 'them's sarce.'

'I'm as wise as ever,' said Andy. Whereupon she went to the compartment which acted as store-closet,
and, bringing out a pie which had a wooden spoon erect in it, proffered him a bit.

'Ah,' quoth Mr. Callaghan with satisfaction, 'that's English talk; I know what that manes well.
So ye calls apples "sarce!" I've heerd tell that every counthry has a lingo of its own, an'
I partly b'lieve it now. But throth, that way of savin' 'em would be great news intirely for
the childer at home!'

So thought Robert Wynn afterwards, when he found the practice almost universal among the Canadians,
and wondered that a domestic expedient so simple and serviceable should be confined to American
housekeepers.

'Peter planted an orchard the first thing when we settled, and maples be plenty in the bush,'
said Mrs. Logan, with unusual communicativeness.

'Yes, ma'am,' rejoined Andy suavely, and not in the least seeing the connection between maple
trees and apple-pie. 'I wondher might I make bould to ax you for one of them sthrings? they're
sich a curiosity to me.' And he had the cord of leathern pieces stowed away in one of the provision
hampers before the others came in from the fields.

There they had seen the invariable abundance and wastefulness of bush-farming; no trace of
the economy of land, which need perforce be practised in older countries, but an extravagance
about the very zigzag fences, which unprofitably occupied, with a succession of triangular
borderings, as much space as would make scores of garden beds. 'Nobody cares for the selvedges
when there is a whole continent to cut from,' remarked Sam Holt, in a sententious way he had.

A yield of from twenty to five-and-twenty bushels per acre of wheat, and two hundred and fifty
bushels of potatoes, were mentioned by the farmer as an average crop. His barns and root-house
were full to repletion. Nothing of all this property was locked up: a latch on the door sufficed.

'I suppose, then, you have no rogues in the bush?' said Robert.

'Where everybody's as well off as another, there ain't no thievin',' was the pithy answer.
'A wolf now and then among our sheep, is all the robbers we has.'

After breakfast the bullocks were yoked afresh.

'I guess as how you've stumps before you to-day, a few,' said the farmer, coming out axe on
shoulder. ''Tain't only a blaze up beyond your place at the Cedars, and not much better than
a track of regulation width from the "Corner" to there. Only for that job of underbrushing
I want to get finished, I'd be along with you to-day.'

He and his boy Benny walked with the travellers so far as their way lay together. The wife
stood at the door, shading her eyes with her hand, till the lumbering waggon was lost to view
round the edge of the woods.

The day's journey was just a repetition of yesterday's, with the stumps and the mud holes rather
worse. The 'Corner' with its single sawmill and store, offered no inducement for a halt; and
a tedious two miles farther brought them to 'hum.'

CHAPTER XII.

CAMPING IN THE BUSH.

'Well!' exclaimed Robert Wynn, 'here is my estate; and neither pond, nor swamp, nor yet spring
creek do I behold.'

He looked again at the landmark--an elm tree at the junction of the lot line and the concession
road, which bore the numbers of each, 'Nine, Fifteen,' in very legible figures on opposite
sides. A 'blaze' had been made by chopping away a slice of the bark with an axe about three
feet from the ground, and on the white space the numbers were marked by the surveyor. All roads
through the forest, and all farm allotments, are first outlined in this way, before the chopper
sets to work.

The new townships in Upper Canada are laid out in parallel lines, running nearly east and west,
sixty-six chains apart, and sixty-six feet in width, which are termed concession lines, being
conceded by Government as road allowances. These lands thus enclosed are subdivided into lots
of two hundred acres by other lines, which strike the concession roads at right angles every
thirty chains; and every fifth of these lot lines is also a cross-road. We have all looked
at maps of the country, and wondered at the sort of chess-board counties which prevail in the
back settlements: the same system of parallelograms extends to the farms.

Robert's face was a little rueful. Twenty yards in any direction he could not see for the overpowering
bush, except along the line of road darkened with endless forest. The waggon was being unpacked,
for the driver sturdily declared that his agreement had been only to bring them as far as this
post on the concession: he must go back to the 'Corner' that evening, on his way home.

'An' is it on the road ye'll lave the masther's things?' remonstrated Andy.

'I guess we han't no masters here, Pat,' was the reply; 'but if you see anywar else to stow
the traps, I ain't partic'ler.' And he stolidly continued unloading.

'Come,' said the cheery voice of Sam Holt, 'we will have daylight enough to explore the lot,
and select a site for a camp. I think I can discover the tops of cedars over the hardwood trees
here. The boxes will take care of themselves, unless a squirrel takes into his head to inspect
them. Let's follow the concession line along westward first.'

Callaghan stayed by the luggage, feeling by no means sure of its safety, and saw the rest of
the party gradually receding among the trees, with sensations akin to those of a sailor on
a desert island. Sitting upon the tool-chest, like an item of property saved from a wreck,
Andy looked from the base to the summit of the huge walls of forest that encompassed him, and
along the canal of sky overhead, till his countenance had fallen to zero.

The shipwrecked sensation had gone farther; Mr. Holt saw it lurking in other faces, and forthwith
found all advantages possible in the lot. The soil was sure to be the best: he could tell by
the timber. Its height proved the depth of earth. When the trees grew shorter, a hidden treasure
of limestone flag lay beneath the surface, useful for drains and building. And even the entangled
cedar swamp was most desirable, as furnishing the best wood for rail-fences and logs for a house.

But nothing could look more unpromising. Blackish pools of water alternated with a network
of massive roots all over the soil, underneath broad evergreen branches; trunks of trees leaned
in every direction, as if top-heavy. Wilder confusion of thicket could not be conceived. 'The
cedars troublesome! I should think so,' groaned their owner.

'This is the worst bit,' acknowledged Sam. 'Now, if we could see it, the lake is down yonder;
perhaps if we strike a diagonal across the lot, we may come to some rising ground.' With the
pocket compass for guide they left the blazed line, which they had followed hitherto. After
a short distance the bush began to thin, and the forest twilight brightened.

'A beaver meadow!' exclaimed Sam Holt, who was foremost. Green as emerald, the small semicircular
patch of grass lay at the foot of gentle slopes, as if it had once been a lakelet itself. 'Two
acres ready cleared, with the finest dairy grass only waiting to be eaten,' continued encouraging
Sam. 'And the clearing on the hill will command the best view in the township; there's the
site for your house, Wynn. Altogether you've had rare luck in this lot.'

'But why is that green flat called a beaver meadow?' asked Robert.

'Do you see the creek running alongside? No, you can't for the underbrush; but it's there all
the same. Well, they say that long ago beavers dammed up the current in such places as this
with clay and brushwood, so that the water spread over all level spaces near; and when the
Indians and French were at war, the red men cut away the dams and killed the beavers wholesale
to spite their enemies. You're to take that just as an on dit, recollect.'

'And is all that verdure an appearance or a reality?'

'Something of both. I don't say but you will occasionally find it treacherous footing, needing
drainage to be comfortable. See! there's the pond at last.'

They had been climbing out of the denser woods, among a younger growth on the face of the slope;
and when they turned, the sheet of water was partially visible over the sunken cedar swamp.

'A pond!' exclaimed Arthur; 'why, it must be three miles across to those limestone cliffs.
What pretty islets! Such endless varieties of wood and water!'

'I think we Americans are rather given to the diminutive style of parlance,' quoth Mr. Holt.
'We have some justification in the colossal proportion of all the features of nature around
us. What is this pretty lake but a mere pool, compared with our Erie and Superior?'

'It is one of a chain,' remarked Robert, taking from his breast pocket a map of the district,
which had his own farm heavily scored in red ink. Often had he contemplated that outline of
the terra incognita on which he now trod, and longed for the knowledge he now possessed, which,
after its manner, had brought him both good and evil. Like balls threaded on a cord, a succession
of lakes, connected by cascades and portages, or by reaches of river, stretched away to the
north-west, sorely marring the uniformity of the chess-board townships.

As they picked their way back along the lot line northward, Mr. Holt stopped suddenly. 'I hear
a very singular noise,' he said, 'for which I am wholly at a loss to account, unless there
be Indians about in the neighbourhood. Even then it is totally unlike their cries. Listen!'

His sharper senses had detected before theirs a distant wail, proceeding from some distance
in front, apparently--weird and wild as it could be, dying away or surging upon the ear as
the wind swept it hither or thither. Arthur shrugged his shoulders. 'You have no ghosts in
these forests, Holt, I suppose?'

'The country's too new for anything of the sort,' replied he gravely.

'Nor any mocking birds that can be playing us a trick? Or dryads warning us off their territory?'

He had recognised the performance of Andy Callaghan, who, when they turned the corner of the
allotment, was discovered seated on the boxes as when they saw him last, and crooning the dismalest
melody. But he had, in the meantime, recovered himself sufficiently to gather brushwood, and
kindle a fire beside the road; likewise to cook a panful of rashers as the shadows grew longer
and the day later.

'But sure I thought ye wor lost entirely; sure I thought ye wor never comin' at all, Masther
Robert, avourneen. 'Twas that med me rise the keen. A single livin' thing I didn't lay my eyes
on since, barrin' a big frog. I'm afeard thim are like sticks, Masther Arthur, they're so long
fryin'.'

'No matter, Andy, they'll do first-rate. I'd only advise you to chop up more. I feel like eating
all that myself;' and, trencher on knee, they dined with real backwood appetites.

A shelter for the night was the next consideration. Mr. Holt constituted himself architect,
and commenced operations by lashing a pole across two trees at about his own height; the others
cut sticks and shrubs for roofing. Three young saplings sloped back to the ground as principal
rafters, and on these were laid a thatch of brushwood; the open ends of the hut were filled
with the same material.

'Now,' said Sam Holt, contemplating the work of his hands with professional pride, 'when we
have a big fire built in front, and a lot of hemlock brush to lie on, we shall be pretty comfortable.'

And he instructed his novices further in the art of making their couch luxuriously agreeable,
by picking the hemlock fine, and spreading over it a buffalo skin. Sam Holt had evidently become
acquainted with 'considerable' bush lore at his University of Toronto.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE YANKEE STOREKEEPER.

Three men stood with their axes amid the primeval forest. Vast trunks rose around them to an
altitude of thirty or even fifty feet without a bough; above, 'a boundless contiguity of shade,'
and below, a dense undergrowth of shrubs, which seemed in some places impenetrable jungle.
Three axes against thirty thousand trees. The odds were immensely in the dryads' favour; the
pines and hardwoods might have laughed in every leaf at the puny power threatening their immemorial
empire, and settled that vis inertiæ alone must overcome.

If, as Tennyson has bestowed upon the larkspur ears, the higher vegetation can listen also,
the following conversation would that day have been heard from the triad of axe-men beginning
their campaign against the forest, and 'bating no jot of heart or hope' in the contest.

'Here's the site for your shanty,' said Mr. Holt, dealing a blow on a fine maple before him,
which left a white scar along the bark. 'It has the double advantage of being close to this
fine spring creek, and sufficiently near the concession line.'

'And I'm sanguine enough to believe that there will be a view at some future period,' added
Robert, 'when we have hewed through some hundred yards of solid timber in front. By the way,
Holt, why are all the settlers' locations I have yet seen in the country so destitute of wood
about them? A man seems to think it his duty to extirpate everything that grows higher than
a pumpkin; one would imagine it ought to be easy enough to leave clumps of trees in picturesque
spots, so as to produce the effect of the ornamental plantations at home. Now I do not mean
exclusively the lowest grade of settlers, for of course from them so much taste was not to
be expected; but gentlemen farmers and such like.'

'I dare say they contract such an antipathy to wood of every species during their years of
clearing, that it is thenceforth regarded as a natural enemy, to be cut down wherever met with.
And when you have seen one of our Canadian hurricanes, you will understand why an umbrageous
elm or a majestic oak near one's dwellings may not always be a source of pleasurable sensations.'

'Still, I mean to spare that beautiful butternut yonder,' said Robert; 'of all trees in the
forest it is prettiest. And I shall try to clear altogether in an artistic manner, with an
eye to the principles of landscape gardening. Why, Holt! many an English parvenu planning the
grounds of his country seat, and contemplating the dwarf larches and infantine beeches struggling
for thirty years to maturity, would give a thousand guineas for some of these lordly oaks and
walnuts, just as they stand.'

Sam Holt refrained from expressing his conviction that, after a winter's chopping, Robert would
retract his admiration for timber in any shape, and would value more highly a bald-looking
stumpy acre prepared for fall wheat, than the most picturesque maple-clump, except so far as
the latter boded sugar.

'To leave landscape gardening for after consideration,' said he, with some slight irony, 'let
us apply ourselves at present to the shanty. I think, by working hard, we might have walls
and roof up before dark. Twenty by twelve will probably be large enough for the present--eh,
Robert?'

Oh yes, certainly; for the house was to be commenced so soon, that the shanty could be regarded
only as a temporary shelter. Blessed, labour-lightening sanguineness of youth! that can bound
over intermediate steps of toil, and accomplish in a few thoughts the work of months or years.

So Mr. Holt measured the above dimensions on the ground, choosing a spot where the trunks appeared
something less massive, than elsewhere, and set his auxiliaries to cut down all the trees within
the oblong, and for a certain distance round; arranging also that the logs should fall as near
as might be to where they were wanted for the walls.

Now, the settler's first-felled tree is to him like a schoolboy's first Latin declension, or
a lawyer's first brief--the pledge of ability, the earnest of future performances. Every success
braces the nerves of mind, as well as the muscles of body. A victory over the woodland was
embodied in that fallen maple. But Andy was so near getting smashed in the coming down of his
tree, that Mr. Holt ordered him to lay by the axe, and bring his spade, to dig a hole in a
certain spot within the oblong.

'An' its mighty harmless that crathur 'ud be agin the wood,' muttered the Irishman; 'throth,
the earth in this counthry is mostly timber. An' in the name of wondher what does he want wid
a hole, barrin' we're to burrow like rabbits?'

But the others were too busy felling or chopping trees into lengths of log to heed Andy's wonderment;
and the novices were agreeably surprised to find how dexterous they became in the handling
of the axe, after even a few hours' practice. Their spirits rose; for 'nothing succeeds like
success,' saith the Frenchman.

'Now I'll give you a lesson in basswood troughs,' said Mr. Holt. 'This shanty of yours is to
be roofed with a double layer of troughs laid hollow to hollow; and we choose basswood because
it is the easiest split and scooped. Shingle is another sort of roofing, and that must be on
your house; but troughs are best for the shanty. See here; first split the log fair in the
middle; then hollow the flat side with the adze.'

Robert was practising his precepts busily, when he was almost startled by a strange nasal voice
beside him.

'Considerable well for a beginner; but I guess you put a powerful deal too much strength in
yer strokes yet, stranger.'

The speaker was a tall lank man, with black hair to correspond, and lantern jaws; little cunning
eyes, and a few scrubby patches of rusty stubble on chin and cheeks. Robert disliked him at once.

'Why didn't you stop at the "Corner" yesterday? 'Twarn't neighbourly to go on right away like
that. But it all come, I reckon, of Britisher pride and impudence.'

Robert looked at him full, and demanded, 'Pray who are you, sir?'

'Zack Bunting as keeps the store,' replied the other. 'I'm not ashamed neither of my name nor
country, which is the U--nited States, under the glorious stars and stripes. I come up to help
in raising the shanty, as I guessed you'd be at it to-day.'

Young Wynn hardly knew what to reply to such an odd mixture of insolence and apparent kindness.
The Yankee took the adze from his hand before he could speak, and set about hollowing troughs
very rapidly.

'You chop, and I'll scoop, for a start. Now I guess you hain't been used to this sort of thing,
when you was to hum? You needn't hardly tell, for white hands like yourn there ain't o' much
use nohow in the bush. You must come down a peg, I reckon, and let 'em blacken like other folks,
and grow kinder hard, afore they'll take to the axe properly. How many acres do you intend
to clear this winter?'

'As many as I can.'

'Humph! you should blaze 'em off all round, and work 'em reglar. You han't more than a month's
"brushing" now. Are you married?'

'No,' replied Robert, waxing fierce internally at this catechism. 'Are you?' by way of retaliation.

'This twenty year. Raised most of our family in the States. The old woman's spry enough yet,
as you'll see when you come to the "Corner."'

All this time Mr. Bunting was chewing tobacco, and discharging the fluid about with marvellous
copiousness, at intervals. Robert thought his dried-up appearance capable of explanation. 'What
made you come to settle in the bush?' was his next question.

'Holt!' called out Robert, quite unable patiently to endure any further cross-examination;
and he walked away through the trees to say to his friend,--'There's an intolerable Yankee
yonder, splitting troughs as fast as possible, but his tongue is more than I can bear.'

'Leave him to me,' answered Sam; 'his labour is worth a little annoyance, anyhow. I'll fix
him.' But he quietly continued at his own work, notwithstanding, and kept Robert beside him.

Mr. Bunting speedily tired of manufacturing the basswood troughs alone, and sloped over to
the group who were raising the walls of the shanty.

'Wal, I guess you're gitting along considerable smart,' he observed, after a lengthened stare,
which amused Arthur highly for the concentration of inquisitiveness it betrayed. ''Tain't an
easy job for greenhorns nohow; but you take to it kinder nateral, like the wood-duck to the
pond.' He chewed awhile, watching Sam's proceedings narrowly. 'I guess this ain't your first
time of notching logs, by a long chalk, stranger?'

'Perhaps so, perhaps not,' was the reply. 'Here, lend a hand with this stick, Mr. Bunting.'

Zack took his hands from the pockets of his lean rusty trousers, and helped to fit the log
to its place on the front wall, which, in a shanty, is always higher than the back, making
a fall to the roof. Mr. Holt managed to keep the Yankee so closely employed during the next
hour, that he took out of him the work of two, and utterly quenched his loquacity for the time
being. 'He shall earn his dinner, at all events,' quoth Sam to himself.

'Wal, stranger, you are a close shave,' said Zack, sitting down to rest, and fanning himself
with a dirty brownish rag by way of handkerchief. 'I hain't worked so hard at any "bee" this
twelve month. You warn't born last week, I guess.'

'I reckon not,' replied Sam, receiving the compliment as conscious merit should. 'But we're
not half done, Mr. Bunting; and I'd like such a knowledgeable head as yours to help fix the
troughs.'

'Oil for oil in this world,' thought Robert.

'Throth, they'll build me up entirely,' said Andy to himself; 'an' sorra door to get out or
in by, only four walls an' a hole in the middle of the floor. Of all the quare houses that
iver I see, this shanty bates them hollow. Masther Robert,' calling aloud, 'I wondher have
I dug deep enough?'

'Come out here, and get dinner,' was the response. 'We'll see to-morrow.'

''Tis asier said than done,' remarked Andy, looking for a niche between the logs to put his
foot in. 'I hope this isn't the way we'll always have to be clamberin' into our house; but
sorra other way do I see, barrin' the hole's to be a passage ondherground.'

'You goose! the hole is to be a cellar, wherein to keep potatoes and pork,' said his master,
overhearing the tale of his soliloquy. Andy departed to his cookery enlightened.

Before the pan had done frizzling, whole rows of the ready-made troughs were laid along the
roof, sloping from the upper wall plate to the back; and Mr. Bunting had even begun to place
the covering troughs with either edge of the hollow curving into the centre of that underneath.
Robert and Arthur were chinking the walls by driving pieces of wood into every crevice between
the logs: moss and clay for a further stuffing must be afterwards found.

If the Yankee were quick at work, he fulfilled the other sequent of the adage likewise. His
dinner was almost a sleight-of-hand performance. Arthur could hardly eat his own for concealed
amusement at the gulf-like capacity of his mouth, and the astonishing rapidity with which the
eatables vanished.

'While you'd be sayin' "thrapstick," he tucked in a quarter of a stone of praties and a couple
of pound of rashers,' said Andy afterwards. 'Before the gintlemen was half done, he was picking
his long yellow teeth wid a pin, an' discoorsin' 'em as impident as if he was a gintleman himself,
the spalpeen!'

All unwitting of the storm gathering in the person of the cook, Mr. Bunting did indulge in
some free and easy reflections upon Britishers in general, and the present company in particular;
also of the same cook's attendance during their meal.

'Now I guess we free-born Americans don't be above having our helps to eat with us; we ain't
poor and proud, as that comes to. But I'll see ye brought down to it, or my name's not Zack
Bunting. It tickles me to see aristocrats like ye at work--rael hard work, to take the consait
out of ye; and if I was this feller,' glancing at Andy, 'I'd make tracks if ye didn't give
me my rights, smart enough.'

The glow in the Irish servant's eyes was not to be mistaken.

'I guess I've riled you a bit,' added the Yankee wonderingly.

'An' what's my rights, sir, if yer honour would be plasin' to tell me?' asked Andy, with mock
obsequiousness; 'for I donno of a single one this minit, barrin' to do what my master bids me.'

'Because I calc'late you've been raised in them mean opinions, an' to think yerself not as
good flesh an' blood as the aristocrats that keep you in bondage.'

'Come now,' interrupted Sam Holt, 'you shut up, Mr. Bunting. It's no bondage to eat one's dinner
afterwards; and he'll be twice as comfortable.'

'That's thrue,' said Andy; 'I never yet could ate my bit in presence of the quality; so that's
one right I'd forgive; and as for me--the likes of me--bein' as good blood as the Masther Wynns
of Dunore, I'd as soon think the Yankee was himself.'

With sovereign contempt, Andy turned his back on Mr. Bunting, and proceeded to cook his dinner.

'Wal, it's the first time I see a feller's dander riz for tellin' him he's as good as another,'
remarked Zack, sauntering in the wake of the others towards the unfinished shanty. 'I reckon
it's almost time for me to make tracks to hum; the ole woman will be lookin' out. But I say,
stranger, what are you going to do with that heaver meadow below on the creek? It's a choice
slice of pasture that.'

'Cut the grass in summer,' replied Sam Holt, tolerably sure of what was coming.

'I've as fine a red heifer,' said the Yankee confidentially, 'as ever was milked, and I'd let
you have it, being a new-comer, and not up to the ways of the country, very cheap.' His little
black eyes twinkled. 'I'd like to drive a trade with you, I would; for she's a rael prime article.'

'Thank you,' said Mr. Holt, 'but we don't contemplate dairy farming as yet.' Zack could not
be rebuffed under half-a-dozen refusals. 'Wal, if you won't trade, you'll be wantin' fixins
from the store, an' I have most everythin' in stock. Some of my lads will be along to see you
to-morrow, I reckon, and any whisky or tobacco you wanted they could bring; and if you chose
to run a bill'--

Refused also, with thanks, as the magazines say to rejected contributions. This, then, was
the purport of Mr. Bunting's visit: to gratify curiosity; to drive a trade; to estimate the
new settlers' worldly wealth, in order to trust or not, as seemed prudent. While at dinner
he had taken a mental inventory and valuation of the boxes and bales about, submitting them
to a closer examination where possible. At the time Robert thought it simply an indulgence
of inordinate curiosity, but the deeper motive of self-interest lay behind.

'In their own phrase, that fellow can see daylight,' remarked Mr. Holt, as Zack's lean figure
disappeared among the trees. 'I never saw little eyes, set in a parenthesis of yellow crowsfeet
at the corners, that did not betoken cunning.'

CHAPTER XIV.

THE 'CORNER.'

Several days were employed in plastering all the crevices of the shanty with clay, cutting
out a doorway and a single window in the front wall, and building a hearth and chimney. But
when completed, and the goods and chattels moved in, quite a proud sense of proprietorship
stole into the owner's heart.

As yet, this arduous bush-life had not ceased to be as it were a play: Sam Holt's cheery companionship
took the edge off every hardship; and their youthful health and strength nourished under toil.

'Now, considering we are to be dependent on ourselves for furniture, the best thing I can fashion
in the first instance will be a work bench,' said Arthur, whose turn for carpentering was decided.
'Little I ever thought that my childish tool-box was educating me for this.'

'I think a door ought to be your first performance,' suggested Robert. 'Our mansion would be
snugger with a door than a screen of hemlock brush.'

'But I must go to the "Corner" for boards, and that will take an entire day, the road is so
vile. I can't see why I couldn't hew boards out of a pine myself; eh, Holt?'

'You want to try your hand at "slabbing," do you? I warn you that the labour is no joke, and
the planks never look so neat as those from the sawmill.'

'We have flung "looks" overboard long ago,' replied Arthur. 'Come, teach me, like a good fellow.'

'Choose your tree as clean and straight in the grain as possible.'

'And how am I to tell how its grain runs?' asked the pupil.

'Experiment is the only certainty; but if the tree be perfectly clear of knots for thirty or
forty feet, and its larger limbs drooping downwards, so as to shelter the trunk in a measure
from the influence of the sun, these are presumptions in favour of the grain running straight.'

'What has the sun to do with it?'

'The grain of most trees naturally inclines to follow the annual course of the sun. Hence its
windings, in great measure. Having selected and felled your pine, cut it across into logs of
the length of plank you want.'

'But you said something of experiment in deciding about the grain of the wood.'

'Oh, by cutting out a piece, and testing it with the axe, to see whether it splits fair. When
you have the logs chopped, mark the ends with a bit of charcoal into the width of your planks:
then slab them asunder with wedges.'

'Holt, where did you pick up such a variety of knowledge as you have?'

'I picked up this item among the lumber-men. You must know I spent more than one long vacation
in exploring the most-out-of-the-way locations I could find. But I'd advise you to go to the
sawmill for your planks, though I do understand the theory of slabbing.'

After due consideration--and as glass for the window was a want for which the forest could
supply no substitute--it was agreed that all should take a half-holiday next day, and go down
to the 'Corner' to Uncle Zack's store.

'Now that is settled,' said Robert, with a little difficulty, 'I wanted to say--that is, I've
been thinking--that we are here in the wilderness, far away from all churches and good things
of that kind, and we ought to have prayers of our own every evening, as my mother has at home.'

'Certainly,' said both Arthur and Sam Holt.

'I have never so felt the presence of God,' added Robert solemnly, 'as since I've been in these
forest solitudes; never so felt my utter dependence upon Him for everything.'

'No,' rejoined Sam. 'He seems to draw very near to the soul in the midst of these His grand
works. The very stillness exalts one's heart towards Him.'

And so that good habit of family worship was commenced, inaugurating the shanty that very night.
Andy Callaghan sat by and listened.

'Throth, but they're fine words,' said he. 'I wouldn't believe any one now, that that book
is bad to listen to.'

'And at home you'd run away from the sight of it. How's that, Andy?' asked Mr. Wynn.

'It's aisy explained, sir,' replied the servant, looking droll. 'Don't you see, I haven't his
riverence at me elbow here, to turn me into a goat if I did anything contrary, or to toss me
into purgatory the minit the breath is out of my poor body.'

Thousands of Andy's countrymen find the same relief to their consciences as soon as they tread
the free soil of Canada West.

Truly a primitive settlement was the 'Corner.' The dusk forest closed about its half dozen
huts threateningly, as an army round a handful of invincibles. Stumps were everywhere that
trees were not; one log-cabin was erected upon four, as it had been, legs ready to walk away
with the edifice. 'Uncle Zack's' little store was the most important building in the place,
next to the sawmill on the stream.

'The situation must be unhealthy,' said Robert; 'here's marsh under my very feet. Why, there's
a far better site for a town plot on my land, Holt.'

'Ay, and a better water privilege too. Let me see what your energy does towards developing
its resources, Robert.'

They discovered one source of the storekeeper's prosperity in the enormous price he exacted
for the commonest articles. Necessity alone could have driven Arthur to pay what he did for
the wretched little window of four panes to light the shanty. And Uncle Zack had as much to
say about the expense and difficulty of getting goods to a locality so remote, and as much
sympathizing with his purchaser because of the exorbitant cost, as if he were a philanthropist,
seeking solely the convenience of his neighbours by his sales.

'That fellow's a master of soft sawder when he chooses: but did you see how he clutched the
hard cash after all? My opinion is, he don't often get paid in the circulating medium,' said
Arthur.

'Of that you may be sure,' rejoined Sam Holt; 'currency here lies more in potash or flour,
just as they have salt in Abyssinia. Society seems to be rather mixed at the "Corner." Yonder's
a French Canadian, and here's an Indian.'

No glorious red man, attired in savage finery of paint and feathers; no sculptor's ideal form,
or novelist's heroic countenance; but a mild-looking person, in an old shooting jacket and
red flannel shirt, with a straw hat shading his pale coppery complexion. He wield a tomahawk
or march on a war trail! Never. And where was the grim taciturnity of his forefathers? He answered
when spoken to, not in Mohawk, or Cherokee, or Delaware, but in nasal Yankeefied English; nay,
he seemed weakly garrulous.

'There's another preconceived idea knocked on the head,' said Arthur. 'My glorious ideal Indian!
you are fallen, never to rise.'

CHAPTER XV.

ANDY TREES A 'BASTE.'

Door and window were fitted into the holes cut in the front wall of the shanty, and no carpenter's
'prentice would have owned to such clumsy joinery; but Arthur was flushed with success, because
the door could positively shut and the window could open. He even projected tables and chairs
in his ambitious imagination, en suite with the bedstead of ironwood poles and platted bass-work
bark, which he had already improvised; and which couch of honour would have been awarded by
common consent to Mr. Holt, had he not adhered to the hemlock brush with all the affection
of an amateur.

The great matter on the minds of our settlers now, was the underbrushing. They might calculate
on the whole month of November for their work--the beautiful dreamy November of Canada, as
different from its foggy and muddy namesake in Britain as well may be. Measuring off thirty
acres as next summer's fallow, by blazing the trees in a line around, took up the best part
of a day; and it necessitated also a more thorough examination of Robert's domains. Such giant
trees! One monarch pine must be nigh a hundred feet from root to crest. The great preponderance
of maple showed that the national leaf symbol of Canada had been suitably selected.

'And is there no means,' quoth Robert, who had been mentally gauging his small axe with the
infinitude of forest--'is there no means of getting rid of wood without chopping it down?'

'Well, yes, some slower means still; the trees may be "girdled;" that is, a ring of bark cut
from the trunk near the base, which causes death in so far that no foliage appears next spring:
consequently the tall melancholy skeleton will preside over your crops without injury.'

'Can't say I admire that plan.'

'You are fastidious. Perhaps you would like "niggers" better?'

'I thought they were contraband in any but slave states.'

'Oh, these are "niggers" inanimate--pieces of wood laid round the trunk, and set on fire where
they touch it; of course the tree is burned through in process of time. These two expedients
might be useful in subsidiary aids; but you perceive your grand reliance must be on the axe.'

'There is no royal road to felling, any more than to learning. And when may I hope to get rid
of the stumps?'

'I don't think the pine stumps ever decay; but the hardwood, or those of deciduous trees, may
be hitched up by oxen and a crowbar after six or seven years; or you might burn them down.'

'Hulloa! what's that?'

The exclamation was from Robert, following a much louder exclamation from Andy in advance.
'He has met with some wild animal,' concluded Mr. Holt. He was certainly cutting the strangest
capers, and flourishing his hand as if the fingers were burned, howling the while between rage
and terror.

'You disgustin' little varmint! you dirty vagabone, to stick all thim things in me hand, an'
me only goin' to lay a hold on ye gentle-like, to see what sort of an outlandish baste ye was!
Look, Masther Robert, what he did to me with a slap of his tail!'

Callaghan's fingers radiated handsomely with porcupine's quills, some inches long, stuck in
pretty strongly and deeply; and the animal himself, quite ready for further offensive warfare,
crouched in the fork of a small maple, just out of reach.

'Ah, then, come down here, you unnatural baste, an' may be I won't strip off your purty feathers,'
exclaimed Andy with unction.

'Cut down the tree,' suggested Arthur. But the porcupine, being more au fait with the ways
of the woods than these new-comers, got away among the branches into a thicket too dense for
pursuit.

'They're as sharp as soords,' soliloquized the sufferer, as he picked out the quills from his
hand and wrist in rather gingerly fashion, and stanched the blood that followed. 'Masther Robert,
avourneen, is he a four-footed baste or a fowl? for he has some of the signs of both on him.
Wisha, good luck to the poor ould counthry, where all our animals is dacent and respectable,
since St. Patrick gev the huntin' to all the varmint.'

'A thrashing from a porcupine's tail would be no joke,' observed Arthur.

'I've known dogs killed by it,' said Mr. Holt. 'The quills work into all parts of their bodies,
and the barbed points make extraction very difficult.'

'I believe the Indians use these in some sort of embroidery.' Robert held in his hand a bunch
of the quills such as had wounded Andy's fingers. 'I've seen penholders of them, when I little
thought I should handle the unsophisticated originals out here.'

Before this time he had learned how enervating were reminiscences of home; he resolutely put
away the remembrance from him now, and walked on to chop the blaze on the next tree. Breast-high
the mark was cut, and at one blaze another could always be discerned ahead.

'I've a regard for the beeches and elms,' quoth he, as he hacked at a hickory stem. 'They are
home trees; but the shrubs have chiefly foreign faces, so I can chop them down without compunction.'

'All such sentimental distinctions will evaporate when you get into the spirit of your work,'
said his friend Sam. 'Your underbrushing rule does not spare anything less than six inches
in diameter; all must be cut close to the ground, and piled in heaps for the burning.'

'A tolerable job to clear such a thicket as this! What a network of roots must interlace every
foot of soil!'

'Rather, I should say. But the first crop will amply repay your pains, even though your wheat
and Indian corn struggle into existence through stumps and interlacing roots. Then there's
the potash--thirty dollars a barrel for second quality: less than two and a half acres of hardwood
timber will produce a barrel.'

'I don't quite understand.'

'Next summer, after your logging bee, you'll know what I mean. This creek is as if 'twas made
on purpose for an ashery.'

'By the way, here's my site for a town plot;' as they came to a fine natural cascade over a
granite barrier, after which plunge the stream hurried down the slope towards the beaver meadow.
'Water power for half a dozen mills going to waste there, Holt.'

'Let's give it a name!' sang out Arthur--'this our city of magnificent intentions.'

'I hope you won't call it Dublin on the Liffey,' said Mr. Holt. 'How I hate those imported
names--sinking our nationality in a ludicrous parody on English topography--such as London
on the Thames, Windsor, Whitby, Woodstock; while the language that furnished "Toronto," "Quebec,"
"Ottawa," lies still unexplored as a mine of musical nomenclature.'

'In default of an Indian name,' said Robert, 'let us call our future settlement after the existing
fact--CEDAR CREEK.'

'And posterity can alter it, if it chooses,' rejoined Arthur. 'All right. Now I'll cut down
this birch where the post-office is to stand hereafter;' and a few sturdy blows of his axe
prostrated the young tree. 'When I'm writing to Linda, I shall date from Cedar Creek, which
will give her an exalted idea of our location: at the same time she will be convinced it is
situated on the seashore, if I forget to say that in Canada every stream is a "creek."'

'Our people have an absurd partiality for what they imagine "handsome names,"' said Mr. Holt.
'Not satisfied with giving their children the most far-fetched they can discover,--for instance,
we have a maid Armenia, at Maple Grove, and I could not resist designating her brother as Ararat,
by way of localizing their relationship,--but also the young settlements of the country have
often the most bombastic names. In the backwoods, one time, I found a party of honest settlers
in a tavern over an old romance, searching for some sufficiently high-sounding title to confer
on their cluster of cabins.'

'I was amused to find that Zack Bunting's eldest son is called Nimrod, familiarized to "Nim,"'
said Robert. 'I never saw a more remarkable likeness to a parent, in body and mind, than that
youth exhibits; every tuft of ragged beard and every twinkle of the knowing little eyes are
to match.'

Nearing the shanty they heard a sound as of one making merry, and espied in the window the
glow of a glorious fire. Within, Peter Logan was making himself at home, cooking his dinner,
while he trilled a Yankee ditty at the top of his powerful voice.

No manner of apology for having opened their cellar, and made free with their barrel of pork,
did he seem to think necessary; but when his meal was finished, he inquired abruptly why they
hadn't built their chimney of 'cats'? 'For I reckon this stick chimney will blaze up some night,'
added he.

Robert hearkened at that startling intimation.

'Mine is of cats,' said Mr. Logan. 'Cats is clay,' he continued sententiously, 'kinder like
straw an' clay mixed up. I guess I'll stay an' help you to fix one to-morrow, if you've a mind to.'

With rugged but real kindness, he took a day from his hunting excursion for the purpose. The
framework of the new chimney was of four upright poles, set in one corner of the shanty, and
laced across by rungs of wood, round which the clay was well kneaded, and plastered inside.
An opening three feet high was left for the fireplace in front. Peter promised that by and
by the clay would burn hard and red, like tilework.

'I wonder you have not built yourself a handsome house, before now,' said Mr. Wynn, 'instead
of that handsome barn. Why you live in a shanty, while your corn is in a frame building, puzzles
me.'

'Ay,' assented the settler, 'but the frame barn is paving the way for the frame house, I calculate:
Benny'll have both; and for the present I'd sooner have my crops comfortable than myself;'
a persuasion which Robert afterwards found to be rooted in common sense, for the Canadian climate
permits not of stacks or ricks wintering in the open air.

After his usual unmannerly fashion, Mr. Logan bade no farewell, but shouldered his gun at some
hour prior to daybreak, and knapsack on back, left the sleeping camp by the light of a young moon.

CHAPTER XVI.

LOST IN THE WOODS.

One day it happened that about noon, while Arthur was 'brushing' at a short distance from the
shanty, he noticed a pack of grouse among the underwood within shot. Dropping his axe, he ran
home for the gun, which stood loaded in one corner.

It was not altogether the sportsman's organ of destructiveness (for he had never forgotten
little Jay's lesson on that head), but probably a growing dislike to the constant diet of pork,
that urged him to an unrelenting pursuit. Cautiously he crept through the thickets, having
wafted an unavailing sigh for the pointer he had left at Dunore, his companion over many a
fallow and stubble field, who would greatly have simplified this business. Unconsciously he
crossed the blazed side-line of the lot into the dense cover beyond, tantalized by glimpses
of game, which never came near enough for good aim. 'I must regularly stalk them,' thought Arthur.

Noiselessly creeping on, he was suddenly brought to by an unexpected sight. The head and horns
of a noble buck were for a moment visible through the thicket. Arthur's heart throbbed in his
ears as he stood perfectly motionless. Grouse were utterly forgotten in the vision of venison.
With every sense concentrated in his eyes, he watched the brush which screened the browsing
deer. By a slight crackling of twigs presently, he was made aware that the animal was moving
forward; he crept in the same direction. The leaves had been damped by a shower two hours before,
and the cloudy day permitted them to retain moisture, or their crispness might have betrayed
his tread.

Ha! a dried stick on which he inadvertently set his foot snapped across. The splendid shy eyes
of the deer looked round in alarm as he bounded away. A shot rang through the forest after
him, waking such a clamour of jays and crows and woodpeckers, that Arthur was quite provoked
with them, they seemed exulting over his failure. Pushing aside the dried timber which had
caused this mischance, he pressed on the track of the deer impetuously. He could not believe
that his shot had missed altogether, though the white tail had been erected so defiantly; which
'showing of the white feather,' as the Canadian sportsman calls it, is a sign that the animal
is unwounded.

But four feet had much the advantage of two in the chase. One other glimpse of the flying deer,
as he came out on the brow of a ridge, was all that Arthur was favoured with. Some partridge
got up, and this time he was more successful; he picked up a bird, and turned homewards.

Homewards! After walking a hundred yards or so he paused. Had he indeed gone back on his own
track? for he had never seen this clump of pines before. He could not have passed it previously
without notice of its sombre shade and massive boles. He would return a little distance, and
look for the path his passage must have made in brushing through the thickets.

Brought to a stand again. This time by a small creek gurgling deeply beneath matted shrubs.
He had gone wrong--must have diverged from his old course. More carefully than before, he retraced
his way to the pine-clump, guided by the unmistakeable black plumage of the tree-tops. There
he stood to think what he should do.

The sky was quite obscured: it had been so all the morning. No guidance was to be hoped for
from the position of the sun. He had heard something of the moss on the trees growing chiefly
at the north side; but on examination these pines seemed equally mossed everywhere. What nonsense!
surely he must be close to his own path. He would walk in every direction till he crossed the
track.

Boldly striking out again, and looking closely for footmarks on the soft ground, he went along
some distance; here and there turned out of his straight course by a thicket too dense for
penetration, till before him rose pine-tops again. Could it be? The same pines he had left!

He covered his eyes in bewilderment. Having stood on the spot for several minutes previously,
he could not be mistaken. Yet he thought he could have been sure that he was proceeding in
a direction diametrically opposite for the last quarter of an hour, while he must have been
going round in a circle. Now, indeed, he felt that he was lost in the woods.

Poor Arthur's mind was a sort of blank for some minutes. All the trees seemed alike--his memory
seemed obliterated. What horrid bewilderment had possession of his faculties? Shutting him
in, as by the walls of a living tomb, the great frowning forest stood on all sides. A mariner
on a plank in mid-ocean could not have felt more hopeless and helpless.

Rousing himself with a shake from the numb, chill sensation which had begun to paralyze exertion,
he thought that, if he could reach the little creek before mentioned, he might pursue his course,
as it probably fell into their own lake at the foot of the Cedars. Keeping the pine-tops in
a right line behind him, he succeeded in striking the creek, and discovering which way it flowed.
After pushing his way some hours along a path of innumerable difficulties, he found himself,
in the waning light, at the edge of a cypress swamp.

Almost man though he was, he could have sat down and cried. Blackest night seemed to nestle
under those matted boughs, and the sullen gleams of stagnant water--the plash of a frog jumping
in--the wading birds that stalked about--told him what to expect if he went farther. At the
same instant a gleam of copper sunset struck across the heavens on the tops of the evergreens,
and the west was not in the direction that the wanderer had imagined; he now easily calculated
that he had all this time been walking from home instead of towards it.

Strange to say, a ray of hope was brought upon that sunbeam, even coupled with the conviction
that he had been hitherto so wofully astray. To-morrow might be bright (and to all the wanderers
in this world the anchor is to-morrow); he would be able to guide his course by the sun, and
would come all right. He resolved to spend the night in a tree near his fire for fear of wild
beasts, and selected a fine branching cedar for his dormitory. Laying his gun securely in one
of the forks, and coiling himself up as snugly as possible, where four boughs radiated from
the trunk, about twenty feet from the ground, he settled himself to sleep as in an arm-chair,
with the great hushing silence of the forest around him. Unusual as his circumstances were,
he was soon wrapt in a dreamless slumber.

Dull and slow dawned the November morning among the trees; broad daylight on their tops, when
but a twilight reached the earth, sixty or eighty feet below. Arthur found himself rather stiff
and chill after his unwonted night's lodging; he tried to gather up the brands of the evening's
fire, which had sunk hours before into grey ashes, that he might at least warm himself before
proceeding farther. Simultaneously with its kindling appeared the sun--oh, welcome sight! and
shot a golden arrow aslant a line of trees. Then was revealed to Arthur the mossy secret of
wood-craft, that the north side bears a covering withheld from the south; for he perceived
that, viewed in the aggregate, the partial greenery on the various barks was very distinct.
Examining individual trunks would not show this; but looking at a mass, the fact was evident.

Now he knew the points of the compass; but of what practical avail was his knowledge? Whether
he had wandered from the shanty to the north, south, east, or west, was only conjecture. How
could that creek have led him astray? He must have crossed the rising ground separating two
watersheds--that sloping towards his own lake and towards some other. There flowed the little
stream noiselessly, sucked into the swampy cypress grove: of course it got out somewhere at
the other side; but as to following it any farther into the dismal tangled recesses, with only
a chance of emergence in a right direction, he felt disinclined to try.

No breakfast for him but a drink of water; though with carnivorous eyes he saw the pretty speckled
trout glide through the brown pool where he dipped his hand; and he crossed the creek over
a fallen tree, ascending to the eastward. He could not be insensible to the beauty of nature
this morning--to the majesty of the mighty forest, standing in still solemnity over the face
of the earth. Magnificent repose! The world seemed not yet wakened; the air was motionless
as crystal; the infinitely coloured foliage clung to maples and aspens--tattered relics of
the royal raiment of summer. The olden awe overshadowed Arthur's heart; his Creator's presence
permeated these sublime works of Deity. Alone in the untrodden woods, his soul recognised its
God; and a certain degree of freedom from anxiety was the result. Personal effort was not his
sole dependence, since he had felt that God was present, and powerful.

Still he kept on to the south-east, hoping at last to strike some of the inhabited townships;
and the unvarying solidity of forest was well-nigh disheartening him, when he saw, after several
miles' walking, the distinctly defined imprint of a man's foot on some clayey soil near a clump
of chestnut trees. Yes, there could be no mistake: some person had passed not long since; and
though the tracks led away considerably from the south-easterly direction he had hitherto kept,
he turned, without hesitation to follow them, and proceeded as rapidly as possible, in hope
of overtaking the solitary pedestrian, whoever he might be. He shouted aloud, he sang some
staves of various familiar old songs; but no response from other human voice came, anxiously
as he listened for such echo. But the footmarks were before his eyes as tangible evidence;
he had got very sharp by this time at detecting the pressure of a heel on the dead leaves,
or the displacement of a plant by quick steps. The tracks must lead to something. Certainly;
they led to a creek.

Impossible! It cannot be that he has followed his own footprints of yesterday! Planting his
boot firmly on the bank beside the other mark, he compared the twain. A glance was enough;
the impressions were identical.

The bewildered feeling of one in a labyrinth recurred. He saw nothing better for it than to
return to the point whence he had diverged to follow the tracks. He now remembered having made
this detour the previous day to avoid cutting his way through a dense underwood on the bank
of the stream.

Nigh an hour had been lost by this delusive retracing of footmarks. He thought that if he climbed
the highest tree he could find, he would be able to get a bird's-eye view of the country round.
Oh that he might behold some islet of clearing amid the ocean of woods!

To reach the branches of any of the largest trees was the difficulty; for the smooth shaft
of a massive marble pillar would be as easily climbed as the trunk of some arboreal giants
here, rising fifty feet clear of boughs. However, by swinging from the smaller trees he accomplished
his object, and saw beneath him on all sides the vast continuity of forest.

Desert could not be lonelier nor more monotonous. No glimmer even of distant lake on the horizon;
no brown spots of clearing; no variety, save the autumn coat of many colours, contrasted with
sombre patches of pine. Stay--was not that a faint haze of smoke yonder? a light bluish mist
floating over a particular spot, hardly moving in the still air. Arthur carefully noted the
direction, and came down from his observatory on the run. He was confident there must be a
trapper's fire, or a camp, or some other traces of humanity where that thin haze hung. He could
not be baulked this time. Hope, which is verily a beauteous hydra in the young breast, revived
again in strength. If he only had somewhat to eat, he wouldn't mind the long tramp before him.
Beech-mast rather increased than appeased his hunger; and nothing came in view that could be shot.

He had not walked far, when a sharp, wild cry, as of some small animal in pain, struck his
ear. Pushing away the brush at the left, he saw the cause--a little dark furry creature hanging
to a sapling, as it seemed; and at his appearance the struggles to escape were redoubled, and
the weakly cries of fear became more piteous. Arthur perceived that to the top of the sapling
was fastened a steel snaptrap, clasping a forepaw in its cruel teeth, and that each convulsive
effort to get free only set the animal dangling in the air, as a trout is played from a rod.
Hopelessly snared, indeed, was the poor marten; he had not even the resource of parting with
his paw, which, had he had any 'purchase' to strive against, would probably have been his choice.
By what blandishments of bait he had ever been seduced into his present melancholy position
was out of Arthur's power to imagine.

But now at least it was beyond all doubt that men were near. Raising his eyes from inspection
of the marten-trap, he saw on a tree close by a freshly-cut blaze. Some rods farther on he
could see another. Now a question arose, which way should he follow the line?--one end was
probably in pathless forest. He concluded to take that direction which suited the smoke he
had seen.

He wondered what blazed lino this was--whether marking the side lots of a concession, or a
hunter's private road through the woods. Presently, at a little distance, the sight of a man's
figure stooping almost made his heart leap into his mouth. How lonely he had been, how almost
desperate at times, he had not fully known till this his deliverance. Oh, that blessed human
form! be he the rudest trapper or Indian, Arthur could have embraced him. Much more when, the
face being lifted from examining the trap, and fixing its eyes with a very astonished stare
on the approaching figure, Arthur recognised the shrewd features of Peter Logan.

CHAPTER XVII.

BACK TO CEDAR CREEK.

'I declar, if you hain't 'most skeered me!' was Peter's exclamation. 'For sartin I never seed
a ghost, but it looked like enough this time. Now, do tell what brought you so far from hum?
Thirteen mile, if it's a rod. You ain't lookin' partic'ler spry, anyhow. Now, Arthur, doen't,
poor lad, doen't.'

For he could not speak during a minute or two; his arm pressed heavily on the backwoodsman's
sturdy shoulder, in the effort to steady the strong trembling that shook him from head to foot
like a spasm of ague.

'Lost in the bush, you war? Well, that ain't agreeable nohow exactly;' and Peter betook himself
to a fumbling in his capacious pocket for a tin flask, containing some reviving fluid. 'Here,
take a pull--this'll fix you all right. Warn't it wonderful that I went my road of traps when
I did, instead of early this mornin'. There's a providence in that, for sartin.'

Deep in Arthur's heart he acknowledged the same truth gratefully.

'You've got a plaguy touch of ague, likely,' added Peter considerately, willing to shift the
responsibility of that trembling from the mind to the body. 'Campin' out is chill enough these
nights. I han't much furder to go to the end of my blaze, and then I'll be back with you. So
will you wait or come along?'

Arthur had too lately found human company to be willing to relinquish it, even with certainty
of its return; he dreaded nothing so much as the same solitude whence he had just emerged;
therefore he followed Peter, who over his shoulder carried a bag containing various bodies
of minks, fishers, and other furry animals, snared in his traps, and subsequently knocked on
the head by his tough service-rod.

That night Arthur found comfortable shelter in Peter's hut, and was initiated into many mysteries
of a trapper's life by him and his half-Indian assistant. Next morning they guided him as far
as a surveyor's post, on which was legibly written the names of four townships, which was the
signal for the separation of the party. Arthur turned his face towards civilisation, along
a blazed boundary line. The others plunged deeper into the woods, walking in the unsociable
Indian file.

The blazed line went on fairly enough for some miles, over hillocks of hardwood, and across
marshes of dank evergreens, where logs had been laid lengthwise for dry footing. At last Arthur
thought he must be drawing near to a clearing, for light appeared through the dense veil of
trees before him, as if some extensive break to the vast continuity of forest occurred beyond.
Soon he stood on its verge. Ay, surely a clearing; but no human hands had been at work.

Hundreds of huge trees lay strewn about, as if they had been wrenched off their stumps by some
irresistible power seizing the branched heads and hurling them to the earth. Torn up by the
massy roots, or twisted round as you would try to break an obstinately tough withe, for many
score of acres the wildest confusion of prostrate maples and elms and pines, heaped upon one
another, locked in death-embraces, quite obliterated any track, and blocked across the country.
Arthur had come upon what French Canadians call a 'renversé' effected by some partial whirlwind
during the preceding summer.

Such tornadoes often crash a road of destruction through the bush for miles; a path narrow
in comparison with its length, and reminding the traveller of the explosive fury of some vast
projectile. The track of one has been observable for more than forty miles right through the
heart of uninhabited forest.

To cross the stupendous barrier seemed impossible to Arthur. There was a tangled chaos of interlaced
and withering boughs and trunks; such a chevaux de frise might stop a regiment until some slow
sap cut a path through, and he was without axe, or even a large knife. He must work his way
round; and yet he was most unwilling to part company with the blaze.

While hesitating, and rather ruefully contemplating the obstacle, a sound at a considerable
distance struck his ear. It was--oh, joy!--the blows of an axe. Instantly he went in the direction.
When near enough to be heard, he shouted. An answering hail came from the other side of the
windfall; but presently he saw that an attempt had been made to log up the fallen timber in
heaps, and, making his way through the blackened stumps of extinct fires, he reached the spot
where two rough-looking men were at work with handspikes and axes.

They had built a little hut, whence a faint smoke curled, the back wall of piled logs still
wearing dead branches and foliage at the ends. A reddish cur, as lawless-looking as his masters,
rushed from the doorway to snap at Arthur's heels. The suspicious glances of the foresters
bore hardly more welcome, till they heard that the stranger belonged to the settlers on Cedar
Pond, and had simply lost his way. They informed him in return, with exceeding frankness, that
they were squatters, taking possession of this strip of bush without anybody's leave, and determined
to hold their own against all comers. An apparently well-used rifle lying against a log close
by gave this speech considerable emphasis.

Arthur wanted nothing more from them than to be put on the surveyor's line again; and, when
directed to the blaze, speedily left the sound of their axes far behind. In half an hour he
reached other traces of mankind--a regularly chopped road, where the trees had been felled
for the proper width, and only here and there an obstinate trunk had come down wrongly, and
lay right across, to be climbed over or crept under according to the wayfarer's taste. In marshy
spots he was treated to strips of corduroy; for the settled parts of the country were near.

'Holloa! Uncle Zack, is that you?'

The person addressed stood in a snake-fenced field, superintending a couple of labourers. He
turned round at the hail, and stared as if he did not believe his senses.

'Wal, I guess I warn't never skeered in my life before. They're all out lookin' for you--Nim,
an' the whole "Corner" bodily. Your brother's distracted ravin' mad this two days huntin' the
bush; but I told him you'd be sartin sure to turn up somehow. Now, whar are you runnin' so
fast? There ain't nobody to hum, an' we 'greed to fire the rifles as a signal whoever fust
got tidins of you. Three shots arter another,' as young Wynn fired in the air. 'Come, quick
as wink, they'll be listenin'.'

'Robert will know the report,' observed Arthur, with a smile, to think of his pleasure in the
recognition, 'if he's near enough.'

'We'll make tracks for the "Corner," I guess,' said Uncle Zack with alacrity; 'that war the
meetin'-place, an' you must be powerful hungry. I'd ha' been to sarch for you to-day, only
them Irish fellers at the clearin' wanted lookin' arter precious bad.' ('Lucky I got in them
kegs o' whisky; he'll have to stand treat for the neighbours,' thought 'cute Uncle Zack in
a sort of mental parenthesis.) 'But now do tell! you must ha' gone a terrible big round, I
guess. They took the Indjin out to foller your trail; them savages has noses an' eyes like
hounds. We'll fire my rifle from the store; it's bigger than yourn.'

His abstraction of mind during Arthur's narrative was owing to a judicious maturing of certain
plans for exacting the greatest amount of profit from the occurrence; but he contrived to interlard
his listening with such appropriate interjections as, 'Now do tell! How you talk! Wal, I kinder
like to know!' mentally watering his whisky the while.

Mrs. Zack, also scenting the prey afar off, was polite as that lady could be to good customers
only. Arthur's impatience for the arrival of the parties from the bush hardly permitted him
to do more than taste the meal she provided. Within doors he could not stay, though weary enough
to want rest. The few log-cabins of the 'Corner' looked more drowsily quiet than usual; the
sawmill was silent. Zack was turning over some soiled and scribbled ledgers on his counter.
Suddenly a shot in the woods quite near: a detachment of the searchers had arrived.

That the rejoicing would take its usual form, an emptying of his spirit-kegs, Zack Bunting
had never doubted. But the second word to the bargain, Mr. Wynn's promise to stand treat, had
not been given, though it was a mere matter of form, Zack thought. Robert spoke to the neighbours,
and thanked them collectively for their exertions in a most cordial manner on behalf of himself
and his brother, and was turning to go home, when the Yankee storekeeper touched his elbow.

''Tain't the usual doins to let 'em away dry,' suggested he, with a meaning smile. ''Spose
you stand treat now; 'twill fix the business handsome.'

That keen snaky eye of his could easily read the momentary struggle in Robert's mind between
the desire not to appear singular and unfriendly, and the dislike to encouraging that whisky
drinking which is the bane of working men everywhere, but most especially in the colonies.
Sam Holt watched for his decision. Perhaps the knowledge of what that calm strong nature by
his side would do helped to confirm Robert's wavering into bold action.

'Certainly not,' he said loudly, that all might hear. 'I'll not give any whisky on any account.
It ruins nine-tenths of the people. I'm quite willing to reward those who have kindly given
time and trouble to help me, but it shall not be in that way.'

Zack's smoke-dried complexion became whitewashed with disappointment.

A day or two afterwards, Zack's son, Nimrod, made his appearance at the Wynns' shanty.

'I say, but you're a prime chap arter the rise you took out of the ole coon,' was his first
remark. 'Uncle Zack was as sartin as I stand of five gallons gone, anyhow; and 'twar a rael
balk to put him an' them off with an apology. I guess you won't mind their sayin' it's the
truth of a shabby dodge, though.'

'Not a bit,' replied Robert; 'I expected something of the kind. I didn't imagine I'd please
anybody but my own conscience.'

'"Conscience!"' reiterated Nim, with a sneer. 'That stock hain't a long life in the bush, I
guess. A storekeeper hain't no business on it, nohow--'twould starve him out; so Uncle Zack
don't keep it.' And his unpleasant little eyes twinkled again at the idea of such unwonted
connection as his father and a conscience.

'That Indjin war hoppin' mad, I can tell you; for they be the greatest brutes at gettin' drunk
in the univarsal world. They'll do 'most anythin' for whisky.'

'The greater the cruelty of giving it to them,' said Robert.

'What are you doin'?' asked Nimrod, after a moment's survey of the other's work.

'Shingling,' was the reply. 'Learning to make shingles.'

'An' you call them shingles?' kicking aside, with a gesture of contempt, the uneven slices
of pinewood which had fallen from Robert's tool. 'You hain't dressed the sapwood off them blocks,
and the grain eats into one another besides. True for Uncle Zack that gentry from the old country
warn't never born to be handlin' axes an' frows. It don't come kinder nateral. They shouldn't
be no thicker than four to an inch to be rael handsome shingles,' added he, 'such as sell for
seven-an'-sixpence a thousand.'

Nimrod's pertinacious supervision could not be got rid of until dinner; not even though Mr.
Wynn asked him his errand in no conciliatory tone.

'Thought I'd kinder like to see how ye were gettin' on,' was the answer. 'New settlers is so
precious awk'ard. Thought I'd loaf about awhile, an' see. It's sorter amusin'.'

He was so ignorantly unconscious of doing anything offensive by such gratification of his curiosity,
that Robert hardly knew whether to laugh or be angry. Nimrod's thick-skinned sensibilities
would have cared little for either. He lounged about, whittling sticks, chewing tobacco, and
asking questions, until Andy's stentorian call resounded through the woods near.

'I guessed I'd dine with you to-day,' said Nim, marching on before his host. With equal coolness,
as soon as the dish of trout appeared, he transfixed the largest with his case-knife.

'Not so fast, my friend,' interrupted Mr. Holt, bringing back the captive. 'We divide fair
here, though it's not Yankee law, I'm aware.'

'Ah, you warn't born yesterday,' rejoined Nim, showing his yellow teeth, which seemed individually
made and set after the pattern of his father's. 'You're a smart man, I guess--raised in Amerikay,
an' no mistake.'

'But come, Andy,' said Arthur, 'tell us where you caught these fine trout? You've altogether
made a brilliant effort to-day in the purveying line: the cakes are particularly good.'

'They're what them French fellers call "galettes,"' observed Nimrod, biting one. 'Flour an'
water, baked in the ashes. Turnpike bread is better--what the ole gall makes to hum.'

Be it remarked that this periphrasis indicated his mother; and that the bread he alluded to
is made with a species of leaven.

'So ye ate turnpikes too,' remarked Andy, obliquely glancing at the speaker. 'The English language
isn't much help to a man in this counthry, where everythin' manes somethin' else. Well, Misther
Arthur, about the trout; you remimber I went down to the "Corner" this mornin'. Now it's been
on my mind some days back, that ye'd want a few shirts washed.'

'But what has that to do with the trout'--interrupted Arthur, laughing.

'Whisht awhile, an' you'll hear. I didn't know how to set about it, no more than the child
of a month old; for there's an art in it, of coorse, like in everythin' else; an' one time
I thried to whiten a shirt of my own--beggin' yer honours' pardon for mintionin' the article--it
kem out of the pot blacker than it wint in. So sez I to meself, "I'll look out for the clanest
house, an' I'll ax the good woman to tache me how to wash a thing;" an' I walks along from
the store to a nate little cabin back from the river, that had flowers growin' in the front;
an' sure enough, the floor was as clane as a dhrawin' room, an' a dacent tidy little woman
kneadin' a cake on the table. "Ma'am," sez I, "I'm obliged to turn washerwoman, an' I don't
know how;" but she only curtseyed, and said somethin' in a furrin tongue.'

'A French Canadian, I suppose,' said Mr. Wynn.

'Jackey Dubois lives in the log-hut with the flowers,' observed Nim, who was whittling again
by way of desert.

'May be so; but at all events she was as like as two peas to the girl whose weddin' I was at
since I came ashore. "Ma'am," sez I, "I want to larn to be a washerwoman:" and wid that I took
off my neckerchief an' rubbed it, to show what I meant, by the rule of thumb. "Ah, to vash,"
sez she, smilin' like a leathercoat potato. So, afther that, she took my handkercher and washed
it fornent me out; an' I'd watched before how she med the cakes, an' cleared a little space
by the fire to bake 'em, an' covered them up wid hot ashes.'

'Not a word about the trout,' said Arthur.

'How can I tell everything intirely all at wanst?' replied the Irishman, with an injured tone.
'Sure I was comin' to that. I observed her lookin' partikler admirin' at the handkercher, which
was a handsome yellow spot, so I up an' axed her to take a present of it, an' I settled it
like an apron in front, to show how iligant 'twould look; an' she was mighty plased, an' curtseyed
ever so often, an' Jackey himself gev me the trout out of a big basket he brought in. The river's
fairly alive wid 'em, I'm tould: an' they risin' to a brown-bodied fly, Misther Arthur.'

'We'll have a look at them some spare day, Andy.'

'But what tuk my fancy intirely, was the iligant plan of bilin' 'em she had. There war round
stones warmin' in the fire, and she dropped 'em into a pot of water till it was scalding hot;
then in wid the fish, addin' more stones to keep it singin'. It's an Indjin fashion, Jackey
told me; for they haven't nothin' to cook in but wooden pails; but I thried it wid them trout
yer atin', an' it answered beautiful.'

Andy bid fair to be no mean chef-de-cuisine, if his experiments always resulted so favourably
as in the present instance.

'An' the whole of it is, Misther Robert, that this Canada is a counthry where the very best
of atin' and dhrinkin' is to be had for the throuble of pickin' it up. Don't I see the poorest
cabins wid plenty of bacon hangin' to the rafthers, an' the trees is full of birds that nobody
can summons you for catchin', and the sthrames is walkin' wid fish; I'm tould there's sugar
to be had by bilin' the juice of a bush; an' if you scratch the ground, it'll give you bushels
of praties an' whate for the axin'. I wish I had all the neighbours out here, that's a fact;
for it's a grand poor man's counthry, an' there's too many of us at home, Misther Robert; an'
(as if this were the climax of wonders) I never see a beggar since I left the Cove o' Cork!'

'All true, Andy, quite true,' said his master, with a little sigh. 'Hard work will get a man
anything here.'

'I must be goin',' said Nimrod, raising his lank figure on its big feet. 'But I guess that
be for you;' and he tossed to Robert a soiled piece of newspaper, wrapped round some square
slight packet.

'Letters from home! Why, you unconscionable'--burst forth Arthur; 'loafing about here for these
three hours, and never to produce them!' But Nim had made off among the trees, grinning in
every long tooth.

Ah! those letters from home! How sweet, yet how saddening! Mr. Holt went off to chop alone.
But first he found time to intercept Nimrod on the road, and rather lower his triumphant flush
at successfully 'riling the Britishers,' by the information that he (Mr. Holt) would write
to the post-office authorities, to ask whether their agent at the 'Corner' was justified in
detaining letters for some hours after they might have been delivered.

CHAPTER XVIII.

GIANT TWO-SHOES.

The calendar of the settler is apt to get rather confused, owing to the uniformity of his life
and the absence of the landmarks of civilisation. Where 'the sound of the church-going bell'
has never been heard, and there is nothing to distinguish one day from another, but the monotonous
tide of time lapses on without a break, it will easily be imagined that the observance of a
Sabbath is much neglected, either through forgetfulness or press of labour. The ministrations
of religion by no means keep pace with the necessities of society in the Canadian wilds. Here
is a wide field for the spiritual toil of earnest men, among a people speaking the English
language and owning English allegiance; and unless the roots of this great growing nation be
grounded in piety, we cannot hope for its orderly and healthful expansion in that 'righteousness
which exalteth a people.'

Once a year or so, an itinerant Methodist preacher visited the 'Corner,' and held his meeting
in Zack Bunting's large room. But regular means of grace the neighbourhood had none. A result
was, that few of the settlers about Cedar Creek acknowledged the Sabbath rest in practice;
and those who were busiest and most isolated sometimes lost the count of their week-days altogether.
Robert Wynn thought it right to mark off Sunday very distinctly for himself and his household
by a total cessation of labour, and the establishment of regular worship. Andy made no sort
of objection, now that he was out of the priest's reach.

Other days were laborious enough. In the underbrushing was included the cutting up all fallen
timber, and piling it in heaps for the spring burnings. Gradually the dense thickets of hemlock,
hickory, and balsam were being laid in windrows, and the long darkened soil saw daylight. The
fine old trees, hitherto swathed deeply in masses of summer foliage, stood with bared bases
before the axe, awaiting their stroke likewise.

Then the latest days in November brought the snow. Steadily and silently the grey heavens covered
the shivering earth with its smooth woolly coating of purest flakes. While wet Atlantic breezes
moaned sorrowfully round Dunore, as if wailing over shattered fortunes, the little log-shanty
in the Canadian bush was deep in snow. Not so large as the butler's pantry in that old house
at home, nor so well furnished as the meanest servant's apartment had been during the prosperous
times, with hardly one of the accessories considered indispensable to comfort in the most ordinary
British sitting-room, yet the rough shanty had a pleasantness of its own, a brightness of indoor
weather, such as is often wanting where the fittings of domestic life are superb. Hope was
in the Pandora's box to qualify all evils.

By the firelight the settlers were this evening carrying on various occupations. Mr. Holt's
seemed the most curious, and was the centre of attraction, though Robert was cutting shingles,
and Arthur manufacturing a walnut-wood stool in primitive tripod style.

'I tell you what,' said he, leaning on the end of his plane, whence a shaving had just slowly
curled away, 'I never shall be able to assist at or countenance a logging-bee, for I consider
it the grossest waste of valuable merchandise. The idea of voluntarily turning into smoke and
ashes the most exquisitely grained bird's-eye maple, black walnut, heart-of-oak, cherry, and
birch--it's a shame for you, Holt, not to raise your voice against such wilful waste, which
will be sure to make woful want some day. Why, the cabinetmakers at home would give you almost
any money for a cargo of such walnut as this under my hand.'

'I regret it as much as you do; but till the country has more railroads it is unavoidable,
and only vexatious to think of. We certainly do burn away hundreds of thousands of pounds'
worth of the most expensive wood, while people in England pay enormous prices for furniture
which our refuse timber could supply.'

'And don't you export any ornamental wood?' asked Robert. 'I saw plenty of deals swimming down
the St. Lawrence.'

'Yes, pine timber meets with the readiest market, and is easiest procurable. But even in that
there is the most unjustifiable wastefulness practised. I was among the lumberers once, and
saw the way they square the white pine. You know that every tree is of course tapering in the
trunk, narrower at the top than at the base; now, to square the log, the best timber of the
lower part must be hewn away, to make it of equal dimensions with the upper part. I am not
above the mark when I say that millions of excellent boards are left to rot in the forest by
this piece of mismanagement, and the white-pine woods are disappearing rapidly.'

But Arthur's sympathies could not be roused for such ordinary stuff as deal, to the degree
of resentment he felt for the wholesale destruction of cabinetmakers' woods.

'If I may make so bould, sir,' said Andy, edging forward, 'might I ax what yer honour is makin'?
Only there aren't any giants in the counthry, I'd think it was a pair of shoes, may be.'

'You've guessed rightly,' replied Mr. Holt, holding up his two colossal frames, so that they
rested on edge. 'Yes, Andy, a pair of shoes near six feet long! What do you think of that new
Canadian wonder?'

'I dunno where you'll get feet to fit 'em,' said Andy dubiously. 'They're mostly as big as
boats, an' much the same shape. May be they're for crossin' the wather in?'

'I intend to wear them myself, Andy,' said the manufacturer, 'but on dry land. You must be
looking out for a pair too, if the snow continues, as is pretty certain, and you want to go
down to the "Corner" before it is frozen over.'

'Why have you cut that hole in the middle of the board?' asked Robert, inspecting the gigantic
wooden sole.

'To give the toes play,' was the answer. 'All parts of the foot must have the freest action
in snow-shoes.'

'I remember a pair at Maple Grove,' said Arthur, 'made of leathern network, fastened to frames
and crossbars, with the most complicated apparatus for the foot in the middle.'

'It is said by scientific men,' said Mr. Holt, 'that if the theory of walking over soft snow
were propounded, not all the mechanical knowledge of the present day could contrive a more
perfect means of meeting the difficulty, than that snow-shoe of the Ojibbeway Indians. It spreads
the weight equally over the wide surface: see, I've been trying, with these cords and thongs,
to imitate their mechanism in this hollow of my plank. Here's the walking thong, and the open
mesh through which the toes pass, and which is pressed against by the ball of the foot, so
as to draw the shoe after it. Then here's the heel-cord, a sort of sling passing round so as
partially to imprison and yet leave free. The centre of the foot is held fast enough, you perceive.'

Robert shook his head. 'One thing is pretty clear,' said he, 'I shall never be able to walk
in snow-shoes.'

'Did you think you would ever be expert at felling pines?' was Mr. Holt's unanswerable answer.

CHAPTER XIX.

A MEDLEY.

'We may soon expect winter,' said Sam Holt, as he drew forth his gigantic snow-shoes, which
had been standing up against the interior wall of the shanty, and now emerged into the brilliant
sunshine.

'Soon expect it!' ejaculated Robert; 'why, I should say it had very decidedly arrived already.
I am sure twelve inches of snow must have fallen last afternoon and night.'

'It is late this year; I've seen it deep enough for sleighing the second week in November;
and from this till March the ground will be hidden, generally under a blanket four feet thick.
You are only on the outskirts of winter as yet.'

'Four months! I wonder it doesn't kill all vegetation.'

'On the contrary, it is the best thing possible for vegetation. Only for the warm close covering
of snow, the intense and long-continued frost would penetrate the soil too deeply to be altogether
thawed by the summer sun.'

'I was very much struck,' said Robert, 'by seeing, in a cemetery near Quebec, a vault fitted
with stone shelves, for the reception of the bodies of people who die during winter, as they
cannot be properly interred till the next spring.'

'Yes; Lower Canada is much colder than our section of the Province. Learned men say something
about the regular northward tendency of the isothermal lines from east to west; certain it
is that, the farther west you go, the higher is the mean annual temperature, back to the Pacific,
I believe. So the French Canadians have much the worst of the cold. You might have noticed
flights of steps to the doors of the habitans? That was a provision against snowing time; and
another proof of the severity of the frost is that any mason work not bedded at least three
feet deep into the earth is dislodged by the April thaws.

'Now what would you say to freezing up your winter stores of meat and fowls? They're obliged
to do it in Lower Canada. Fresh mutton, pork, turkeys, geese, fowls, and even fish, all stiff
and hard as stone, are packed in boxes and stowed away in a shed till wanted. The only precaution
needful is to bring out the meat into the kitchen a few days before use, that it may have time
to thaw. Yet I can tell you that winter is our merriest time; for snow, the great leveller,
has made all the roads, even the most rickety corduroy, smooth as a bowling-green; consequently
sleighing and toboggin parties without end are carried on.'

'That's a terribly hard word,' remarked Arthur.

'It represents great fun, then, which isn't generally the case with hard words. A toboggin
is an Indian traineau of birch-bark, turned up at one end, and perfectly level with the snow.
A lady takes her seat on this, and about a foot and a half of a projection behind her is occupied
by a gentleman, who is the propelling instrument for the vehicle. He tucks one leg under him,
and leaves the other trailing on the snow behind, as a rudder. I should have told you that,
first of all, the adventurous pair must be on the top of a slope; and when all is ready, the
gentleman sets the affair in motion by a vigorous kick from his rudder leg. Of course the velocity
increases as they rush down the slope; and unless he is a skilful steersman, they may have
a grand upset or be embosomed in a drift; however, the toboggin and its freight generally glides
like an arrow from the summit, and has received impetus enough to carry it a long distance
over the smooth surface of the valley at foot.'

'How first-rate it must be!' exclaimed Arthur. 'But we shall never see a human being in these
backwoods;' and over his handsome face came an expression of ennui and weariness which Robert
disliked and dreaded. 'Come, Holt, I'm longing to have a try at the snow-shoes:' and his white
volatile nature brightened again immediately at the novelty.

'I'm afraid they're too long for this clearing, among all the stumps,' said the manufacturer;
'you may wear them eighteen inches shorter in the forest than on the roads or plains. At all
events, I'll have to beat the path for you first;' and having fixed his mocassined feet in
the walking thong and heel-cord, with his toes just over the 'eye,' he began to glide along,
first slowly and then swiftly. Now was the advantage of the immense sole visible; for whereas
Robert and Arthur sank far above their ankles at every step in the loose dry snow, Mr. Holt,
though much the heaviest of the three, was borne on the top buoyantly.

'You see the great necessity is,' said he, returning by a circuit, 'that the shoe should never
press into the snow; so you must learn to drag it lightly over the surface, which requires
some little practice. To render that easier, I've beaten the track slightly.'

'Holt, are those genuine Indian mocassins?' asked Robert, as he ungirded his feet from the
straps of the snow-shoes.

'Well, they're such as I've worn over many a mile of Indian country,' was the answer; 'and
I can recommend them as the most agreeable chaussure ever invented. Chiropodists might shut
shop, were mocassins to supersede the ugly and ponderous European boot, in which your foot
lies as dead as if it had neither muscles nor joints. Try to cross a swamp in boots, and see
how they'll make holes and stick in them, and only come up with a slush, leaving a pool behind;
but mocassined feet trip lightly over: the tanned deer-hide is elastic as a second skin, yet
thick enough to ward off a cut from thorns or pebbles, while giving free play to all the muscles
of the foot.'

'You haven't convinced me: it's but one remove from bare-footedness. Like a good fellow, show
me how I'm to manage these monstrous snow-shoes: I feel as queer as in my first pair of skates.'

Mr. Holt did as required. But the best theoretical teaching about anything cannot secure a
beginner from failures, and Arthur was presently brought up by several inches of snow gathered
round the edges of his boards, and adding no small weight.

'It will work up on them,' said he (as, when a smaller boy, he had been used to blame everything
but himself), 'in spite of all I can do.'

'Practice makes perfect,' was Sam Holt's consolatory remark. 'Get the axes, Robert, and we'll
go chop a bit.'

'I'll stay awhile by the snow-shoes,' said Arthur.

The others walked away to the edge of the clearing, Mr. Holt having first drawn on a pair of
the despised European boots.

Never had Robert seen such transparent calm of heaven and earth as on this glorious winter
day. It was as if the common atmosphere had been purified of all grosser particles--as if its
component gases had been mixed afresh, for Canadian use only. The cold was hardly felt, though
Mr. Holt was sure the thermometer must be close upon zero; but a bracing exhilarating sensation
strung every nerve with gladness and power.

'You'll soon comprehend how delightful our winter is,' said Sam Holt, noticing his companion's
gradually glowing face. 'It has phases of the most bewitching beauty. Just look at this white
spruce, at all times one of our loveliest trees, with branches feathering down to the ground,
and every one of its innumerable sea-green leaves tipped with a spikelet which might be a diamond!'

They did stand before that splendid tree--magnificent sight!

'I wonder it escaped the lumberers when they were here; they have generally pretty well weeded
the forests along this chain of lakes of such fine timber as this spruce. I suppose it's at
least a hundred feet high: I've seen some a hundred and forty.'

'And you think lumberers have been chopping in these woods? I saw no signs of them,' said Robert.

'I met with planks here and there, hewed off in squaring the timber: but even without that,
you know, they're always the pioneers of the settler along every stream through Canada. This
lake of yours communicates with the Ottawa, through the river at the "Corner," which is called
"Clyde" farther on, and is far too tempting a channel for the lumberers to leave unused.'

The speaker stopped at the foot of a Balm-of-Gilead fir, on the edge of the swamp, and partially
cleared away the snow, revealing a tuft of cranberries, much larger and finer than they are
ever seen in England.

'I noticed a bed of them here the other day. Now if you want a proof of the genial influence
of the long-continued snow on vegetation, I can tell you that these cranberries--ottakas, the
French Canadians call them--go on ripening through the winter under three or four feet of snow,
and are much better and juicier than in October, when they are generally harvested. That cedar
swamp ought to be full of them.'

'I wonder can they be preserved in any way,' said Robert, crushing in his lips the pleasant
bitter-sweet berry. 'Linda is a wonderful hand at preserves, and when she comes'--

The thought seemed to energize him to the needful preparation for that coming: he immediately
made a chop at a middle-aged Weymouth pine alongside, and began to cut it down.

'Well, as to preserving the cranberries,' said Mr. Holt, laughing in his slight silent way,
'there's none required; they stay as fresh as when plucked for a long time. But your sister
may exercise her abilities on the pailfuls of strawberries, and raspberries, and sand cherries,
and wild plums, that fill the woods in summer. As to the cranberry patches, it is a curious
fact that various Indian families consider themselves to have a property therein, and migrate
to gather them every autumn, squaws and children and all.'

'It appears that my swamp is unclaimed, then,' said Robert, pausing in his blows.

'Not so with your maples,' rejoined the other; 'there's been a sugar camp here last spring,
or I'm much mistaken.'

He was looking at some old scars in the trunks of a group of maples, at the back of the Weymouth
pine on which Robert was operating.

'Yes, they've been tapped, sure enough; but I don't see the loupes--the vats in which they
leave the sap to crystallize: if it were a regular Indian "sucrerie," we'd find those. However,
I suspect you may be on the look-out for a visit from them in spring--au temps des sucres,
as the habitans say.'

'And I'm not to assert my superior rights at all?'

'Well, there's certainly sugar enough for both parties during your natural lives, and the Indians
will sheer off when they find the ground occupied; so I'd advise you to say nothing about it.
Now, Wynn, let your pine fall on that heap of brushwood; 'twill save a lot of trouble afterwards;
if not, you'll have to drag the head thither and chop and pile the branches, which is extra
work you'd as soon avoid, I dare say.'

After some judicious blows from the more experienced axe, the pine was good enough to fall
just as required.

'Now the trunk must be chopped into lengths of twelve or fourteen feet;' and Mr. Holt gashed
a mark with his axe at such distances, as well as he could guess. When it was done--

'What's the rate of speed of this work?' asked Robert. 'It seems so slow as to be almost hopeless;
the only consideration is, that one is doing it all for one's self, and--for those as dear
as self,' he could have added, but refrained.

'About an acre in eight or nine days, according to your expertness,' was the reply. Robert
did a little ciphering in his mind immediately. Three axes, plus twenty-seven days (minus Sundays),
equal to about the chopping of ten acres and a fraction during the month of December. The calculation
was somewhat reassuring.

'What curious curves there are in this Canadian axe!' he remarked, as he stood leaning on the
handle and looking down. 'It differs essentially from the common woodman's axe at home.'

'And which the English manufacturers persisted in sending us, and could not be induced to make
on precisely the model required, until we dispensed with their aid by establishing an edge-tool
factory of our own in Galt, on the Grand River.'

'That was a declaration of independence which must have been very sensibly felt in Sheffield,'
remarked Robert.

They worked hard till dinner, at which period they found Arthur limping about the shanty.

'I practised those villainous snow-shoes for several hours, till I walked beautifully; but
see what I've got by it,' he said: 'a pain across the instep as if the bones would split.'

'Oh, just a touch of mal de raquette,' observed Sam Holt, rather unsympathizingly. 'I ought
to have warned you not to walk too much in them at first.'

'And is there no cure?' asked Arthur, somewhat sharply.

'Peter Logan would scarify your foot with a gun-flint, that is, if the pain were bad enough.
Do you feel as if the bones were broken, and grinding together across the instep?'

But Arthur could not confess to his experiences being so bad as this. Only a touch of the mal
de raquette, that was all. Just a-paying for his footing in snow-shoes.

CHAPTER XX.

THE ICE-SLEDGE.

Sam Holt had long fixed the first snow as the limit of his stay. He had built his colossal
shoes in order to travel as far as Greenock on them, and there take the stage, which came once
a week to that boundary of civilisation and the post.

Two or three days of the intensest frost intervened between the first snow and the Thursday
on which the stage left Greenock. Cedar Pond was stricken dead--a solid gleaming sheet of stone
from shore to shore. A hollow smothered gurgle far below was all that remained of the life
of the streams; and nightly they shrank deeper, as the tremendous winter in the air forced
upon them more ice, and yet more.

Notwithstanding the roaring fires kept up in the shanty chimney, the stinging cold of the night
made itself felt through the unfinished walls. For want of boards, the necessary interior wainscoting
had never been put up. The sight of the frozen pond suggested to Mr. Holt a plan for easily
obtaining them. It was to construct an ice-boat, such as he had seen used by the Indians: to
go down to the 'Corner' on skates, lade the ice-boat with planks, and drive it before them
back again.

Arthur, who hailed with delight any variety from the continual chopping, entered into the scheme
with ardour. Robert would have liked it well enough, but he knew that two persons were quite
sufficient for the business; he rather connived at the younger brother's holidays; he must
abide by the axe.

One board, about nine feet long, remained from Arthur's attempts at 'slabbing.' This Mr. Holt
split again with wedges, so as to reduce it considerably in thickness, and cut away from the
breadth till it was only about twenty inches wide. The stoutest rope in the shanty stores was
fastened to it fore and aft, and drawn tightly to produce a curve into boat shape, and a couple
of cross pieces of timber were nailed to the sides as a sort of balustrade and reinforcement
to the rope. The ice-sledge was complete; the voyagers tied down their fur caps over their
ears, strapped the dreadnought boots tightly, and launched forth.

'Throth, I donno how they do it at all, at all,' said Andy, who had lent his strength to the
curving of the sledge, and now shook his head as he viewed them from the shore. 'I'd as soon
go to walk on the edges of knives as on them things they call skates; throth, betune the shoes
as long as yerself for the snow, an' the shoes wid soles as sharp as a soord for the ice, our
own ould brogues aren't much use to us. An' as for calling that boord a boat, I hope they won't
thry it on the wather, that's all.'

As if he had discharged his conscience by this protesting soliloquy, Mr. Callaghan turned on
his heel, and tramped after Robert up to the shanty.

Meanwhile, the voyagers had struck out from the natural cove formed by the junction of the
creek with the pond, where were clumps of stately reeds, stiffened like steel by the frost.
The cedar boughs in the swamp at the edge drooped lower than ever under their burden of snow;
the stems looked inky black, from contrast. The ice-boat pushed on beautifully, with hardly
any exertion, over the greyish glistening surface of the lake.

'I fancy there's a bit of breeze getting up against us,' said Mr. Holt, in a momentary pause
from their rapid progression.

''Twill be in our backs coming home,' suggested Arthur, as an obvious deduction.

'And if we can fix up a sail anyhow, we might press it into our service to propel the sledge,'
said Mr. Holt.

'Well, I never did hear of sails on dry land before,' said Arthur, thereby proving his Irish
antecedents; of which his quick-witted companion was not slow to remind him.

'But I don't much admire that greyish look off there,' he added, becoming grave, and pointing
to a hazy discolouration in the eastern skies. 'I shouldn't be surprised if we had a blow to-night;
and our easterly winds in winter always bring snow.'

Uncle Zack was lost in admiration of the spirit which projected and executed this ice-boat
voyage. 'Wal, you are a knowin' shave,' was his complimentary observation to Mr. Holt. ''Twar
a smart idee, and no mistake. You'll only want to fix runners in front of the ice-sled goin'
back, an' 'twill carry any load as easy as drinkin'. 'Spose you han't got an old pair of skates
handy? I've most remarkable good 'uns at the store, that'll cut right slick up to the Cedars
in no time if tacked on to the sled. You ain't disposed to buy 'em, are you? Wal, as you be
hard fixed, I don't care if I lend 'em for a trifle. Quarter dollar, say. That's dog-cheap--it's
a rael ruination. Take it out in potash or maple sugar next spring--eh? Is it five cents cash
you named, Mister Holt? Easy to see you never kep a backwoods store. Did anybody ever hear
of anythin' so onreasonable?'

To which offer he nevertheless acceded after some grumbling; and the runners of the borrowed
skates were fastened underneath the sled by Mr. Holt's own hands and hammer. Next, that gentleman
fixed a pole upright in the midst, piling the planks from the sawmill close to it, edgeways
on both sides, and bracing it with a stay-rope to stem and stern. At the top ran a horizontal
stick to act as yard, and upon this he girt an old blanket lent by Jackey Dubois, the corners
of which were caught by cords drawn taut and fastened to the balustrade afore-mentioned.

Sam Holt had in his own brain a strong dash of the daring and love of adventure which tingles
in the blood of youthful strength. He thoroughly enjoyed this rigging of the ice-boat, because
it was strange, and paradoxical, and quite out of everyday ship-building. The breeze, become
stronger, was moaning in the tops of the forest as he finished; the greyish haze had thickened
into well-defined clouds creeping up the sky, yet hardly near enough to account for one or
two flakes that came wandering down.

'Ye'll have a lively run to the Cedars, I guess,' prophesied Zack, as he helped to pack in
the last plank. 'An' the quicker the better, for the weather looks kinder dirty. See if them
runners ain't vallyable now; and only five cents cash for the loan.' The queer little craft
began to push ahead slowly, her sail filling out somewhat, as the wind caught in it at a curve
of the shore.

Certainly the runners materially lessened the friction of the load of timber on the ice. The
skaters hardly felt the weight more than in propelling the empty sledge. When they got upon
the open surface of the pond, they might expect aid from the steady swelling of the sail, now
fitful, as gusts swept down, snow-laden, from the tree-covered banks of the stream. They hardly
noticed the gradually increasing power of the wind behind them; but the flakes in the air perceptibly
thickened, even before they had reached the pond.

'Now make a straight course across for the pine point yonder,' said Sam Holt, as they passed
in lee shelter for an instant. 'I suspect we might almost embark ourselves, Arthur, for the
breeze is right upon it.'

A few minutes of great velocity bore them down on the headland. They stopped for breath, the
turned-up prow of their ice-boat resting even in the brush on shore. Then they coasted awhile,
until another wide curve of the pond spread in front.

By this time the falling snow was sufficiently dense to blur distant outlines, and an indistinct
foggy whiteness took the place of the remaining daylight. Mr. Holt hesitated whether to adopt
the safer and more laborious plan of following the windings of the shore, or to strike across
boldly, and save a mile of meandering by one rapid push ahead. The latter was Arthur's decided
choice.

'Well, here goes!' and by the guiding rope in his hand Mr. Holt turned the head of the ice-boat
before the wind. They grasped the balustrades at each side firmly, and careered along with
the former delightful speed; until suddenly, Arthur was astonished to see his companion cast
himself flat on the ice, bringing round the sledge with a herculean effort broadside to the
breeze. A few feet in front lay a dark patch on the white plain--a breathing-hole.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE FOREST MAN.

During the momentary pause that followed the bringing up of the ice-boat broadside to the breeze,
they could hear the fluctuating surge of deep waters, sucking, plunging--in that large dark
patch on the ice. An instant more of such rapid progression would have sunk them in it, beyond
all hope.

'Live and learn, they say,' remarked Sam Holt, rising from his prostrate position beside the
cargo; 'and I certainly had yet to learn that breathing-holes could form at such an early period
in the winter as this. We had better retrace our steps a bit, Wynn; for the ice is probably
unsound for some distance about that split.'

'A merciful escape,' said Arthur, after they had worked their way backwards a few yards.

'Ay, and even if we could have pulled up ourselves on the brink, the sledge must have been
soused to a dead certainty. Had the snow-flakes been a trifle thicker, we wouldn't have seen
the hole till we were swimming, I guess. And it's well this cord of Uncle Zack's was rotten,
or the sail would have been too much for my pull.' One of the ropes stretching the lower side
of the blanket had snapped under the sudden pressure of Sam Holt's vigorous jerk round, and
thereby lessened the forward force.

They made a long circuit of the deadly breathing-hole, and then ran for the nearest shore on
the farthest side. The deepening layer of soft snow on the surface of the ice impeded the smooth
action of the runners considerably, and made travelling laborious.

Under the lee of a promontory covered with pines they drew up to rest for a few minutes, and
shake away loose snow.

'You know everything, Holt, so you can tell me why those treacherous breaks in the ice are
called breathing-holes.'

'I believe there's no reason to be given beyond a popular Canadian superstition that a lake
needs air as well as a human being, and must have it by bursting these openings through its
prison of ice. The freezing is generally uniform all over the surface at first, and after a
month or so it cracks in certain spots, perhaps where there exists some eddy or cross current
in the water. But evidently the hole we saw a while ago was never frozen at all. Uncle Zack
would tell you it is over some dismal cavern whence issue whirlwinds and foul air.'

'I think we should get on almost better without skates,' said Arthur, when they had struggled
a furlong farther.

'We are in a drift just now,' answered Mr. Holt; 'the wind has heaped the snow up along here.
Certainly the skates would be of more use to us farther out on the pond; but I think we had
better be cautious, and continue to coast;' and so they did, having the fear of other possible
breathing-holes before their eyes.

How grandly roared the wind through the forest of pines with a steady persistent swelling sound,
as of breakers upon an iron shore, sweeping off masses of snow wherewith to drown all landmarks
in undistinguishable drifts of whiteness, and driving aslant the descending millions of flakes,
till the outlines of the lake landscape were confused to the eyes which tried to trace familiar
copse or headland.

Sam Holt was secretly somewhat disquieted, and watched narrowly for the cedars which denoted
the Wynns' land. He would have abandoned the ice-boat but for unwillingness to risk the fruit
of their day's journey. They must be near the swamp and the creek now; it was scarcely possible
they could have passed without recognising the cove whence they had issued in the morning;
and yet there was a chance. For the weather was extremely thick, and daylight was fading quickly:
the disguise of drifts is bewildering, even to the most practised eye.

'Ha! there are our cedars at last!' exclaimed Arthur. 'How the snow has buried them; they look
stunted. I suppose up here's the creek;' and he laid his hand beside his mouth to shout a signal
to the shanty, which was smothered immediately in the greater tumult of the storm.

Mr. Holt left the grounded ice-boat, and proceeded farther inland to examine the locality,
returning in a few minutes, when Arthur had his skates off, with the information that this
was merely a cove running in among trees, and by no means the estuary of a stream.

'Now you know, Holt, if this isn't our creek it must be our swamp, and I'm blinded and petrified
on that lake. Do let us get overland to the shanty. I'm certain we would travel faster; and
we can haul up the planks to-morrow or next day. You see it's getting quite dark.'

'And do you think the pathless forest will be more lightsome than the open ice? No; we'd better
kindle a fire, and camp out to-night. I'm pretty sure we must have passed Cedar Creek without
knowing.'

Arthur was already so drowsy from the excessive cold that he was only glad of the pretext for
remaining still, and yielding to the uncontrollable propensity. But Mr. Holt pulled him on
his feet and commanded him to gather brushwood and sticks, while he went about himself picking
birch-bark off the dead and living trees. This he spread under the brush and ignited with his
tinder-box. The sight of the flame seemed to wake up Arthur with a shock from the lethargy
that was stealing over his faculties. Mr. Holt had chosen a good site for his fire in the lee
of a great body of pines, whose massive stems broke the wind; so the blaze quickened and prospered,
till a great bed of scarlet coals and ends of fagots remained of the first relay of fuel, and
another was heaped on. Now Arthur was glowing to his fingers' ends, thoroughly wide awake,
and almost relishing the novelty of his lodgings for the night; with snow all around, curtaining
overhead, carpeting under foot.

'Curious way they camp out in the Far West,' said Holt, with his arms round his knees, as he
sat on their hemlock mattress and gazed into the fire, wherein all old memories seem ever to
have a trysting-place with fancy. And so scenes of his roving years came back to him.

'You must know that out in the Hudson's Bay territory the snow is often ten or fourteen feet
deep, not only in drifts, but in smooth even layers, obliterating the country inequalities
wonderfully. That's the native land of snow-shoes and of furs, where your clothes must be mainly
of both for half the year. But I was going to tell you how the voyageurs build a fire when
they have to camp out on a winter's night, and there's twelve feet of snow between them and
the solid ground.'

'Sheer impossibility,' said Arthur presumptuously; 'the fire would work a hole down.'

'You shall hear. First, they cut down a lot of trees--green timber--about twenty feet or more
in length. These are laid closely parallel on the snow, which has previously been beaten to
a little consistency by snow-shoes; on the platform thus made the fire is lit, and it burns
away merrily.'

'Don't the trees ever burn through?' asked Arthur.

'Seldom; but the heat generally works a cavity in the snow underneath, sometimes quite a chasm,
seven or eight feet deep--fire above, water below. Ha! I'm glad to see my old friend the Great
Bear looking through over the pines yonder. Our storm has done its worst.'

'Holt, though I'm rather hungry and sleepy, I'm heartily glad of this night's outing, for one
reason: you won't be able to leave us to-morrow, and so are booked for another week, old fellow.'

It seemed irrevocably the case; and under this conviction Arthur rolled himself in the blanket
(cut from the spar of the ice-boat), and went into dreamland straight from his brushwood bed,
Mr. Holt continuing to sit by the fire gazing into it as before; which sort of gazing, experienced
people say, is very bad for the eyes. Perhaps it was that which caused a certain moisture to
swell into most visible bright drops, filling the calm grey orbs with unspeakable sadness for
a little while. The Great Bear climbed higher round the icy pole; the sky had ceased to snow
before the absorbed thinker by the fire noticed the change of weather. Then he rose gently,
laid further wood on the blazing pile, threw brush about Arthur's feet and body for additional
warmth, and, skates in hand, went down to the lake to explore.

On reaching the point of the headland, he looked round. The weather was much clearer; but westwards
a glimmering sheen of ice--black land stretching along, black islands, snow-crowned, rising
midway afar. Eastward, ha! that is what should have been done hours ago. A fire burned on the
edge of the woods at some distance. So they had really passed Cedar Creek unawares, as he suspected
from the nature of the ground and trees.

While Robert and Andy crouched by their fire, feeding it up to full blaze with the most resinous
wood they could find, the distant shout of the coming travellers gladdened their ears. The
servant flung his whole stock of balsam on the beacon at once, causing a most portentous flame-burst,
and sprang up with a wild 'hurroo!' wielding one half-burnt fagot à la shillelah about his head.

'Oh, then, Mister Robert, achora, it's yerself is the janius; an' to think of mekin' a lighthouse
to guide 'em wid, an' here they are safe home by the manes of it. But now, sir, if ye'll take
my advice, as we're always lost when we goes anywhere by ourselves, we ought niver part for
the futhur, an' thin we'll all go asthray together safe an' sound.'

'Let's warm ourselves at this glorious fire before we go up to the shanty,' said Arthur, stretching
out his feet to the fire. 'Pity to let it waste its sweetness on the desert air.'

So they stood explaining matters by the fire for a few minutes, till Andy, who was never tired
of heaping on fresh fuel, came forward with an armful and a puzzled face.

'Mr. Holt, there's somethin' quare in that three, sir, which has a big hole in it full of dhry
sticks an' brush, and there's something woolly inside, sir, that I felt wid me two hands; an'
more be token it's a big baste, whatever it is.'

'A bear, probably,' said Mr. Holt, as he warmed the sole of one foot. 'Better let him alone
till morning, and tuck in his bedclothes again for to-night, poor fellow.' But Arthur had started
up to investigate, and must pull the black fleece for his personal satisfaction.

'Oh, throth he's stirrin' now!' exclaimed Andy, who had begun to cram the orifice with the
former stuffing of dried bough and brush. 'We've woke him up, Masther Arthur, if it's asleep
he was at all, the rogue; an' now he's sthrugglin' out of the hole wid all his might. Keep
in there, you big villyan, you don't dare to offer to come out;' for Andy set his shoulder
against the great carcase, which nevertheless sheered round till muzzle and paws could be brought
into action, and their use illustrated on Andy's person.

'Och, murther!' roared the sufferer; 'he has his arms round me, the baste; he's squeezing me
into m--m--mash!'

A blazing stick, drawn from the fire by Mr. Holt's hand, here struck the bear's nose and eyes;
which, conjoined with Andy's own powerful wrenching, caused him to loosen his hold, and a ball
from the rifle which Robert had fortunately brought down as the companion of their night watch,
finished his career.

'Well done, Bob!' when, after a run of thirty yards or so, they stood beside the prostrate
enemy; 'you've won our first bear-skin. Now we shall see what the paws are like, in the way
of eatables; don't you say they're delicious, Holt?'

Borne upon two strong poles, the bear made his way up to the shanty, and was housed for the
rest of the night. Poor Andy was found to be severely scratched by the long sharp claws. 'Sure
I'm glad 'twas none of yerselves he tuk to huggin',' said the faithful fellow; 'an' scrapin'
as if 'twas a pratie he wanted to peel!'

He had his revenge on the forepaws next morning when Mr. Holt cut them off, some time before
breakfast, and set them in a mound of hot ashes to bake, surrounding and crowning them further
with live coals. Bruin himself was dragged outside into the snow, preparatory to the operation
of skinning and cutting up into joints of excellent meat.

'Do you know, I saw an amazing resemblance to a fur-coated man, as he stood up last night before
Robert's shot,' said Arthur.

'You're not the first to see it,' replied Holt. 'The Indians call him "the forest man," and
the Lower Canadians the "bourgeois;" they attribute to him a sagacity almost human; the Crees
and Ojibbeways fancy him an enchanted being, and will enter into conversation with him when
they meet in the woods.'

'Yet they take an unfair advantage of his paws.'

'That's true: my cookery must be almost done.' And he re-entered the hut to dish up his dainty.
'Come, who'll feast with me?'

'Appearances are much against them,' said Robert, eyeing the charcoal-looking paws, which presented
soles uppermost on the trencher. Mr. Holt scooped out a portion on to his own plate, and used
no further persuasion.

''Twould never do not to know the taste of bear's paw,' said Arthur, as if winding himself
up to the effort of picking a small bit. Mr. Holt was amused to see the expression of enlightened
satisfaction that grew on his face. 'Oh, Bob, 'tis really capital. That's only a prejudice
about its black look,' helping himself again. 'The Indians aren't far removed from epicures,
when this is their pet dish.'

'Well,' observed Mr. Holt, filling his horn cup with tea from the kettle, 'they equally relish
fried porcupines and skunks; but some of their viands might tempt an alderman--such as elk's
nose, beaver's tail, and buffalo's hump.'

'Holt,' said Arthur, scooping the paw a third time, 'it seemed to me that chap had fixed himself
in a hole barely big enough, to judge by the way he wriggled out.'

'Very likely. "Bears are the knowingest varmint in all creation," as Uncle Zack would say.
They sometimes watch for days before entering a tree, and then choose the smallest opening
possible, for warmth's sake, and scrape up brush and moss to conceal themselves. I've known
the hollow tree to be such a tight fit that the hunters were compelled to cut it open to get
at the bear after he was shot. I suspect the heat of our fire had roused this one, even before
Andy pulled away the brush, or he wouldn't ha' been so lively.'

'What's the meat like, Holt? I hope it don't taste carnivorous.'

'You'll hardly know it from beef, except that the shorter grain makes it tenderer; for the
bear lives on the best products of the forest. He'll sit on his haunches before a serviceberry
tree, bend the branches with his paws, and eat off the red fruit wholesale. He'll grub with
his claws for the bear potatoes, and chew them like tobacco. He'll pick the kernels out of
nuts, and help himself to your maize and fall wheat when you have them, as well as to your
sucking pigs and yearly calves.'

'Then we may fairly eat him in return,' said Robert; 'but I'll leave the paws to you and Arthur.'

'Thank you for the monopoly. Now these knives are sufficiently sharp.' Sam Holt had been putting
an edge on them at the grindstone during his talk. 'Come and have your lesson in fur-making,
for I must be off.'

'Off! oh, nonsense; not to-day,' exclaimed both. But he was quite unpersuadeable when once
his plan was fixed. He took the stage at Greenock that afternoon.

CHAPTER XXII.

SILVER SLEIGH-BELLS.

The shanty was ere long lined in a comely manner with the planks which had journeyed up the
pond in the ice-boat, affording many an evening's work for Arthur. About Christmas all was
right and tight.

Now, to those who have any regrets or sadnesses in the background of memory, the painfullest
of all times are these anniversaries. One is forced round face to face with the past and the
unalterable, to gaze on it, perchance, through blinding tears. The days return--unchanged:
but, oh, to what changed hearts!

Were they not thinking of the Canadian exiles to-day, at home, at dear old Dunore? For nothing
better than exiles did the young men feel themselves, this snow-white Christmas morning, in
the log-hut among the backwoods, without a friendly face to smile a greeting, except poor Andy's;
and his was regretful and wistful enough too.

'I say, Bob, what shall we do with ourselves? I'm sure I wish I didn't know 'twas Christmas
day at all. It makes a fellow feel queer and nonsensical--homesick, I suppose they call it--and
all that sort of thing. I vote we obliterate the fact, by chopping as hard as any other day.'

So, after reading the chapters for the day (how the words brought up a picture of the wee country
church in Ireland, with its congregation of a dozen, its whitewashed walls and blindless lancet
windows!), they went forth to try that relief for all pains of memory--steady hard work. The
ten acres allotted for December were nearly chopped through by this time, opening a considerable
space in front of the shanty, and beginning to reveal the fair landscape of lake and wooded
slopes that lay beyond. The felled trees lay piled in wind rows and plan heaps so far as was
possible without the help of oxen to move the huge logs; snow covered them pretty deeply, smoothing
all unsightliness for the present.

'How I long to have something done towards the building of our house!' said Robert, pausing
after the fall of a hemlock spruce, while Arthur attacked the upper branches. 'I'd like so
much to have it neatly finished before my father and mother and Linda come next summer.'

'Well, haven't you no end of shingles made for the roof?' said the other, balancing his axe
for a blow. 'You're working at them perpetually; and Andy isn't a bad hand either at wooden
slates, as he calls them.'

'We must have a raising-bee in spring,' concluded Robert, after some rumination--'as soon as
the snow melts a little. Really, only for such co-operative working in this thinly peopled
country, nothing large could be ever effected. Bees were a great device, whoever invented them.'

'By the way,' said Arthur presently, returning from chopping apart the trunk into two lengths
of fifteen feet, 'did you hear that the Scotchman between us and the "Corner," at Daisy Burn,
wants to sell his farm and improvements, and is pushing out into the wild land farther up the
pond? Nim told me yesterday. He expects three pounds sterling an acre, including fixtures,
and he got the ground for nothing; so that's doubling one's capital, I imagine.'

'How for nothing?'

'It was before a human being had settled in these townships, and the concession lines were
only just blazed off by the surveyors. Davidson obtained a grant of land on condition of performing
what are called settlement duties, which means chopping out and clearing the concession lines
for a certain distance. Of course that was another way of payment, by labour instead of cash.
But on swearing that it was done, he obtained what Nim calls a "lift," a crown patent, we should
say, and the land was his estate for ever.'

'I wish we could transfer a couple of his fenced fields here,' said Robert, 'and his young
orchard. We must have some sort of a garden, Arthur, before Linda comes.'

'Yes, she never could get on without her flower beds. I say, Bob, won't Cedar Creek look awfully
wild to them?'

They worked on awhile both thinking of that. Any one accustomed to smooth enclosed countries,
with regular roads and houses at short distances, would indeed find the backwoods 'awfully
wild.' And that most gentle mother, how would she bear the transplanting?

'I had a very misty idea of what bush-life was, I own, till I found myself in it,' quoth Robert,
after a long silence, broken only by the ring of the axes.

'Living like a labourer at home, but without half his comforts,' said Arthur, piling the boughs.
'Tell you what, Bob, we wouldn't be seen doing the things we do here. Suppose Sir Richard Lacy
or Lord Scutcheon saw us in our present trim?'

'But you know that's all false pride,' said Robert, with a little glow on his cheek nevertheless.
'We shouldn't be ashamed of anything but wrong.'

'Say what you will, Bob, it strikes me that we aren't of the class which do best in Canada.
The men of hard hands, labouring men and women, are those who will conquer the forest and gain
wealth here.'

'Well, if that be the rule, you and I must strive to be the exception,' said Robert; 'for I'm
determined to have a comfortable homestead for the dear old people from Dunore, and I'm equally
determined to set my mark on Canadian soil, and to prosper, if it be God's will.'

He lifted off his cap for a moment, looking at the serene sky. The rising discontent in his
brother's heart was stilled by the gesture. Both worked assiduously, till Andy, with an unusual
twinkle in his eyes, summoned them to dinner.

'What has the fellow been about, I wonder? I know 'twasn't respect for the holiday kept him
indoors all the morning.'

It was presently explained. Andy, ignorant of courses, dished up, together with the ham, a
very fine dumpling emitting the odour of apples.

'Sure, as ye can't have yer own plum puddin' in this outlandish counthry, ye can have a thing
the same shape, anyhow. Mrs. Jackey showed me how to make it iligant, of the string of dried
bits I had thrun in the box since we kem here first. Throth an' I'm cur'ous to see did they
ever swell out agin, afther the parchin' they got.'

But for a slightly peculiar taste in the sweet, the dumpling was unimpeachable.

'I suppose Mrs. Jackey uses maple sugar in her confectionery,' said Robert; 'a soupçon of trees
runs through it.'

Late in the evening, as the pitch-pine logs were flaring abundance of light through the cabin--light
upon Robert at his shingles, and upon Arthur at his work-bench, and upon Andy shaving and packing
the slips of white pine as fast as his master split them, with a stinging night outside, some
twenty-five degrees below zero, and the snow crusted at top hard enough to bear anything--all
three raised their heads to listen to some approaching sound through the dead silence of the
frozen air. It was a very distant vagrant tinkling, as of sheep-bells on a common in old Europe;
they looked at one another, and Andy crossed himself reverently.

'Like chapel bells over the say from poor Ireland,' he muttered, and crept to the door, which
Robert had opened. 'Sure there isn't fairies all the ways out here? an' 'tis mighty like it'--

'Hush--h--!' Andy crossed himself again as the tinkling became more plainly audible. A sweetly
plaintive jangling it seemed--a tangled careless music. Nearer, and still nearer it came.

'What a fool I am!' exclaimed Robert; 'it must be sleigh-bells. Travellers, I suppose.'

And before many minutes were past, the sleigh had rounded its way among the stumps, over the
smooth snow, to the shanty door, filled with brilliant wood-light.

CHAPTER XXIII.

'STILL-HUNTING.'

From the buffalo robes of the sleigh emerged a gentleman so wrapped in lynx-furs and bearskin,
that, until his face stood revealed by the firelight, nothing but his voice was recognisable
by the Wynns.

'Argent! is it possible?'

'Most possible: didn't you remember that my regiment was quartered out here? But I'm sure it
is a very unexpected pleasure to meet you in the bush, old fellow;' and they shook hands warmly
again. 'For though I heard from my mother that you had gone to settle in Canada, she didn't
mention the locality, and I've been inquiring about you in all directions without success,
until, as good fortune would have it, I stopped at the odious Yankee tavern yonder this evening,
and overheard a fellow in the bar mention your name. You may imagine I seized him, and ascertained
particulars--harnessed the sleigh again, and started off up here, to ask you for a night's
lodging, which means a rug before the fire.'

His servant had been unloading the sleigh of knapsacks, and rifles, and other hunting gear.
Captain Argent gave him a few directions, and presently the silver-sounding bells tinkled swiftly
away along the concession road, and back to the 'Corner' again.

'Och sure,' quoth Andy to himself, as he witnessed from among his shingles the reunion of the
old acquaintances, 'what a house for him to come into--not as big as the butler's bedroom at
Scutcheon Castle--an' nothin' but pork an' bear's mate to give the likes of a gran' gintleman
like him: I wish he'd sted at home, so I do. Oh, Misther Robert asthore, if I ever thought
to see the family so reduced; an' sure I was hopin' nobody would know it but ourselves--leastways,
none of the quality at home.'

Andy's soliloquy was interrupted by a summons from his master to prepare supper; but the under-current
of his thoughts went on as he set about his cooking.

'An' to have to be fryin' mate ondher his very nose, an' the kitchen in the castle is a good
quarther of a mile from the dinin' parlour, anyhow; an' all our chaney is made of wood, barrin'
the couple of plates; an' our glasses is nothin' but cows' horns. An' sorra a bit of a table-cloth,
unless I spread one of the sheets. An' to sit on shtools for want of chairs. An' to sleep on
the flure like meself. Arrah, what brought him here at all?'

The subject of these reflections had meanwhile lighted his silver-mounted meerschaum, and was
puffing contentedly in the intervals of animated chat, apparently quite satisfied with his
position and prospective hardships, not giving a thought to the humble accommodations of his
friends' shanty; which, on the first entrance, had contracted in Robert's vision into a mere
wood-cutter's hut, devoid of every elegance and most of the comforts of civilised life. He
imagined that thus it would be seen through Argent's eyes. But if it was so, Argent neither
by look nor manner gave token of the least thought of the sort.

He was the youngest son of a poor peer, Lord Scutcheon, living in the neighbourhood of Dunore;
and often had the Wynns ridden with him at the same meet, and shouldered fowling-pieces in
the same sporting party.

'But picking off pheasants in a preserve is tame work to the noble game one can shoot in these
forests,' said he. 'I'm bound at present on a "still-hunting" expedition; which doesn't mean
looking out for illegal distilleries, as it might signify in Ireland, ha, ha!'

Captain Argent had very high animal spirits, and a small joke sufficed to wake them into buoyant
laughter, which was infectious by its very abundance.

'Deer-stalking is the right word; I've done it in Scotland, but now I mean to try my hand on
the moose--grandest of American ruminants. I've engaged an old trapper to come with me for
a few days into their haunts. Now, 'twould be a delightful party if you two would join. What
do you say, Wynn? Come, lay by your axe, and recreate yourself for a week, man.'

Arthur looked a very decided acceptance of the proposition, but Robert shook his head. 'Couldn't
leave the place,' said he, smiling; 'too much to be done.'

'Nonsense; the trees will stand till your return, and you can't plough through four feet of snow.'

'If I was far enough advanced to have land fit for ploughing, nothing could be pleasanter than
to join you, Argent; but unfortunately no end of trees have to be cut down, and logged in heaps
for burning before then. But, Arthur, wouldn't you go?'

His faint opposition, because he did not like to leave his brother, was easily overcome. Captain
Argent made another attack upon Robert's resolve. 'People always consider winter the time for
amusement in Canada. Nature gives a tolerably good hint to the same effect, by blocking up
the rivers so that ships can't sail, and snowing up the farms, so that the ground isn't seen
for months; and if that isn't a licence for relaxation'--

'I suspect that in the earlier stages of bush-life there are no holidays,' replied Robert:
'if you just reflect that everything in the way of civilisation has to be done afresh from
the beginning pretty much like living on a desert island. Now I've got a house to build by
summer time, and here are all the preparations towards it as yet;' and he pointed to the shingles.

'Why, thin, I'd like to know for what Misther Robert is dhrawin' up the poverty of the family,
an' makin' little of himself before the captain,' thought Andy angrily, and betraying the feeling
by a bang of the frying-pan as he laid it aside. 'Can't he talk to him of sojers, or guns,
or wild bastes, or somethin' ginteel of that kind, an' not be makin' a poor mouth, as if he
hadn't a single hap'ny.' Andy was relieved when the conversation veered round to a consideration
of Canada as military quarters.

'About the pleasantest going,' was the Hon. Captain Argent's opinion. 'Of course I can't exactly
make out why we're sent here, unless to stave off the Yankees, which it seems to me the colonists
are sufficiently inclined and sufficiently able to do themselves; neither can I imagine why
Joe Hume and his school of economists submit to such expense without gaining anything in return,
save the honour and glory of calling Canada our colony. But leaving that matter to wiser heads
than mine, I can say for myself that I like the quarters greatly, and am inclined to agree
with Canadian eulogists, that it is the finest country in the world--barring our own little
islands.'

'I don't feel, though, as if it ever could be home,' observed Robert, who had taken to his
shingles again.

'Perhaps not; but we military men have an essentially homeless profession, you know.'

'The red-coats in Montreal and Quebec seemed a visible link with mother country, most welcome
to my eyes in the new land; and so, Argent, when you're commander-in-chief, do continue the
regiments in Canada, for my sake.'

'But, my dear fellow,' said the officer quite seriously, as he struck the ashes from his pipe,
'it is waste of the most expensive manufactured material on earth, the British soldier. When
he's within reach of the States, he deserts by whole pickets, ready armed and accoutred to
the Yankees' hands; I've had the pleasant job of pursuing the chaps myself, and being baulked
by the frontier. It's the garrison duty they detest; and an unlimited licence beckons them
over the border.'

'And you think,' said Robert, 'the colonists are sufficiently loyal, and all that, to be left
to themselves?'

'I don't think they would join the States, at all events. What a horrid set those Yankees are!
Canadians are too respectable to wish to sail in the same ship with them.' This truly cogent
argument was followed by a series of profound whiffs. 'And if they did,' added Captain Argent
presently, 'we've been building the strongest fortifications in the world, spending millions
at Halifax and Quebec and other places, on fosses and casemates, and bomb-proof towers, just
for the Yankees! And I suppose that Barrack Hill in the middle of Bytown will be made into
another Acropolis for the same end.'

'Ah,' said Robert, shaving his shingle attentively, 'so long as Canadians look back to England
as home, and speak of it as home, there's little fear of annexation or revolt. Mother country
has only to keep up the motherly relation, and patiently loosen the leading strings, according
as her colonies grow able to run alone.'

'That sentiment might fall from the lips of a Colonial Secretary in his place in the Commons.
By the way, did you hear that my brother Percy has been returned member for the county at home?'

'No; we have not seen a newspaper since we left, except a shabby little Canadian print, which
gives half a dozen lines to the English mail. Tell us about it, Argent. Was there a contest?'

How intensely interesting were the particulars, and how Robert and Arthur did devour the ill-printed
provincial news-sheet issuing from the obscure Irish country town, and burning all through
with political partisanship! Luckily Argent had the last received copy in his pocket, which
detailed all the gossip of the election, with the familiar names, and localities of the struggle.

Looking back half a lifetime seemed to be concentrated in the months since they had left Europe.
Things widely different from all past experience had filled their thoughts to overflowing,
and drowned out old sympathies, till this evening vivified them afresh. Yet Robert felt, with
a sort of little pain, that they must gradually die away, be detached, and fall off from his
life. His logs and shingles, his beaver meadow and water privilege, were more to him now than
all the political movements which might shake Ireland to its centre.

Long after Argent's short athletic figure, crowned with fair curls, lay fast asleep on his
buffalo rugs, enjoying hunters' repose, the brothers sat talking and musing. It was not the
first time that Robert had to reason down Arthur's restless spirit, if he could. This rencontre
had roused it again. He was not satisfied with the monotonous life of the backwoods. He envied
Argent, rather, who could make pleasure his pursuit, if he chose.

They set off for the hunting grounds with sunrise next morning; the experienced Ina Moose,
a half-bred trapper, marching in advance of the sledge. First, he had stored in the shanty
the jingling strings of bells, without consulting their owner; he had a constitutional antipathy
to noise of all sorts, and could see no especial good in warning the game.

'What an erect fellow he is, and as taciturn as a mole!' quoth the lively Argent. 'I hope we
shall meet with some of his step-relations, the Indians; I've quite a passion for savage life,
that is, to look at. Last winter's leave I made some excursions on Lake Simcoe; the islands
there are all savage territory, belonging to the Ojibbeways. Poor fellows, they're dying out--every
year becoming fewer; yet one can discern the relics of a magnificent race. Red cunning has
been no match for white wisdom, that's certain.'

Arthur was a willing listener to many stories about his friend's excursions; and so the time
was wiled away as they drove deeper into the recesses of the forest, even to the extreme end
of all concession lines.

Here was Ina's wigwam, on the edge of a small pond, which was closely hedged in with pines.
Wasting no words, he merely stepped back to unbuckle the shaggy pony, and at the ensuing noonday
meal Arthur for the first time tasted the wilderness preserve called 'pemmican.' It was not
unlike what housewives at home denominate 'collar,' he thought, cutting in compact slices of
interwoven fat and lean.

'How is it made, Argent?'

'I believe the dried venison is pounded between stones till the fibres separate, and in that
powdery state is mixed with hot melted buffalo's fat, and sewed up in bags of skin. They say
it is most nutritive--a pound equal to four pounds of ordinary meat. A sort of concentrated
nourishment, you see.'

'What are those blackish things hanging up in the smoke, I wonder?'

'Beavers' tails, captured in the creeks off the lake, I suppose; capital food, tasting like
bacon, but a little gristly.'

'And does the fellow live here, all alone?' A quick and perhaps unfriendly glance of Ina's
black eyes proved that he was not deaf, though by choice dumb.

'Well, I suppose so, this year; but he's a great rover. Was with me on the Simcoe last year.
I never met such a lover of the chase for its own sake. His forefathers' instincts are rampant
in him. Ina, have we any chance of a moose?'

The trapper shook his grisly head. 'Only on the hard wood ridges all winter,' he answered;
'they "yard" whar maples grows, for they live on the tops and bark. Bariboos come down here,
mostly.'

What these were, Arthur had soon an opportunity of knowing. Ina kindled into a different being
when the hunting instinct came over him. Every sense was on the alert.

The hunters had drawn white shirts over their clothes, to disguise their approach through the
snow from the far-seeing deer which they were to stalk. They proceeded some distance before
meeting with game. What intense and inexpressible stillness through the grand woods! Arthur
started, and almost exclaimed, when, from a pine tree close to him, issued a report sharp as
a pistol shot. It was only the violent contraction of the wood from the severe frost, as he
knew in a moment; and the deer browsing yonder on branch tops never winced, though a whisper
or a footfall would have sent them bounding away. Presently the crack of Argent's rifle was
followed by the spring of a buck high into the air, all four feet together, poor animal, as
the death-pang pierced his heart.

'I thought I never should get fair aim, from the way he was protected by trees,' said the sportsman,
reloading with satisfaction. 'And it's cruel to maim a creature, you know;' whence the reader
may perceive that Captain Argent was humane.

'Holloa! what's this?' said Arthur, nearly stumbling over a pair of antlers.

'Moose,' replied Ina laconically, as he glanced upwards to see whether the maple twigs had
been nipped short.

'He must have been a trifle lighter for the loss of these,' observed Arthur, lifting them.
'Nearly six feet across, and half-a-hundred weight, if an ounce. I'm curious to see the animal
that can carry them composedly.'

'The largest beast on the continent,' said Argent. But much as they searched, the shed antlers
were all they saw of moose for that day.

CHAPTER XXIV.

LUMBERERS.

Scene, early morning; the sun pouring clear light over the snowy world, and upon Captain Argent
in front of the hut, just emerged from his blankets and rugs.

'Why, Arthur, here's an elk walking up to the very hall door!'

Almost at the same minute Ina appeared among the distant trees, and fired. He had gone off
on snow-shoes long before daybreak, to run down the moose he knew to be in the neighbourhood,
had wounded a fine bull, and driven him towards his camp.

'Why didn't you finish him off on the spot,' asked Arthur, 'instead of taking all that trouble?'

'No cart to send for the flesh,' replied Ina significantly.

There might be a thousand pounds of that, covered with long coarse hair, and crested with the
ponderous antlers. A hunch on the shoulders seemed arranged as a cushion support to these last;
and in the living specimens seen afterwards by Arthur, they carried the huge horns laid back
horizontally, as they marched at a long trot, nose in the air, and large sharp eyes looking
out on all sides.

'It was a sharp idea to make the elk his own butcher's boy,' quoth Argent.

The massive thick lips formed the 'mouffle,' prized in the wilderness as a dainty: Arthur would
have been ashamed to state his preference for a civilised mutton chop. Other elks shared the
fate of this first; though it seemed a wanton waste of nature's bounties to slay the noble
animals merely for their skins, noses, and tongues. Ina was callous, for he knew that thus
perished multitudes every year in Canada West, and thousands of buffaloes in the Hudson's Bay
territory. Arthur could not help recalling little Jay; and many a time her lesson kept his
rifle silent, and spared a wound or a life.

One day, while stalking wild turkeys, creeping cautiously from tree to tree, an unwonted sound
dissipated their calculations. Coming out on a ridge whence the wood swept down to one of the
endless ponds, they heard distant noises as of men and horses drawing a heavy load.

'Lumberers,' explained Ina, pricking his ears. He would have immediately turned in a contrary
direction; but the prospect of seeing a new phase of life was a strong temptation to Captain
Argent, so they went forward towards a smoke that curled above a knot of pines.

It proceeded from the lumber shanty; a long, windowless log-hut with a door at one end, a perpetual
fire in the centre, on a large open hearth of stones; the chimney, a hole in the roof. Along
both sides and the farther end was a sort of dais, or low platform of unhewn trees laid close
together, and supporting the 'bunks,' or general bed, of spruce boughs and blankets. Pots slung
in the smoke and blaze were bubbling merrily, under presidence of a red night-capped French
Canadian, who acted as cook, and was as civil, after the manner of his race, as if the new
arrivals were expected guests.

'Ah, bon-jour, Messieurs; vous êtes les bienvenus. Oui, monsieur--sans doute ce sont des gens
de chantier. Dey vork in forest,' he added, with a wave of his hand--plunging into English.
'Nous sommes tous les gens de chantier--vat you call hommes de lumbare: mais pour moi, je suis
chef de cuisine pour le présent:' and a conversation ensued with Argent, in which Arthur made
out little more than an occasional word of the Canadian's--with ease when it was so Anglican
as 'le foreman.'

'What a good-looking, merry-faced chap he is!' observed Arthur, when the red nightcap had been
pulled off in an obeisance of adieu, as they went to seek for the others, and witness their
disforesting operations.

'French Canadians are generally the personifications of good humour and liveliness,' returned
Argent; 'the pleasantest possible servants and the best voyagers. Listen to him now, carolling
a "chanson" as he manages his smutty cookery. That's the way they sing at everything.'

'So the lumberers have a foreman?'

'Curious how the French can't invent words expressive of such things, but must adopt ours.
He tells me "le foreman's" duty is to distribute the work properly, allotting to each gang
its portion; and also to make a report of conduct to the overseer at the end of the season,
for which purpose he keeps a journal of events. I had no idea there was so much organization
among them; and it seems the gangs have regular duties--one to fell, one to hew, one to draw
to the water's edge with oxen; and each gang has a headman directing its labours.'

Nearing the sound of the axes, they came to where a group of lumber-men were cutting down some
tall spruce-firs, having first laid across over the snow a series of logs, called 'bedding
timbers,' in the line that each tree would fall. One giant pine slowly swayed downwards, and
finally crashed its full length on the prepared sleepers, just as the strangers approached.
Immediately on its fall, the 'liner' commenced to chop away the bark for a few inches wide
all along the trunk, before marking with charcoal where the axes were to hew, in squaring the
timber; meantime another man was lopping the top off the tree, and a third cutting a sort of
rough mortise-hole at the base, which he afterwards repeated at the upper end.

So busy were the whole party, that the hewer, a genuine Paddy, who stood leaning on his broad
axe until the timber was ready for him, was the first to raise his eyes and notice the new-comers.
Arthur asked him what the holes were for.

'Why, then, to raft the trees together when we get 'em into the water,' was his reply; and
in the same breath he jumped on to the trunk, and commenced to notch with his axe as fast as
possible along the sides, about two feet apart. Another of his gang followed, splitting off
the blocks between the deep notches into the line mark. And this operation, repeated for the
four sides, squared the pine into such a beam as we see piled in our English timber yards.

What was Arthur's surprise to recognise, in the mass of lumberers gathered round a huge mast,
the Milesian countenance of Murty Keefe, a discontented emigrant with whom he had picked up
a casual acquaintance on the steamboat which took him to Montreal. He was dressing away the
knots near the top with his axe, as though he had been used to the implement all his life.
When, after infinite trouble and shouting in all tongues, the half-dozen span of strong patient
oxen were set in motion, dragging the seventy-feet length of timber along the snow towards
the lake, Arthur contrived to get near enough to his countryman for audible speech. Murty's
exaggerated expectations had suffered a grievous eclipse; still, if he became an expert hewer,
he might look forward to earning more than a curate's salary by his axe. And they were well
fed: he had more meat in a week now than in a twelvemonth in Ireland. He was one of half-a-dozen
Irishmen in this lumberers' party of French Canadians, headed by a Scotch foreman; for through
Canada, where address and administrative ability are required, it is found that Scotchmen work
themselves into the highest posts.

During the rude but abundant dinner which followed, this head of the gang gave Argent some
further bits of information about the lumber trade.

'We don't go about at random, and fell trees where we like,' said he. 'We've got a double tax
to pay: first, ground rent per acre per annum for a licence, and then a duty of a cent for
every cubic foot of timber we bring to market. Then, lest we should take land and not work
it, we are compelled to produce a certain quantity of wood from every acre of forest we rent,
under pain of forfeiting our licence.'

'And will you not have it all cut down some day? Then what is the country to do for fuel and
the world for ships?'

The foreman rubbed his rusty beard with a laugh.

'There's hundreds of years of lumbering in the Bytown district alone,' said he; 'why, sir,
it alone comprehends sixty thousand square miles of forest.'

CHAPTER XXV.

CHILDREN OF THE FOREST.

There could hardly be a wider contrast than between Captain Argent's usual dinner at his regimental
mess, and that of which he now partook in the lumbermen's shanty. Tables and chairs were as
unknown as forks and dishes among the gens de chantier; a large pot of tea, dipped into by
everybody's pannikin, served for beer and wine; pork was the pièce de résistance, and tobacco-smoking
the dessert; during all of which a Babel of tongues went on in French patois, intermingled
with an occasional remark in Irish or Scottish brogue.

'Your men seem to be temperance folk,' observed Argent to the foreman.

'Weel, they must be,' was the laconic reply. 'We've no stores where they could get brandy-smash
in the bush, and it's so much the better for them, or I daursay they wad want prisons and juries
next. As it is, they're weel behaved lads eneugh.'

'I'm sure it must be good in a moral point of view; but do you find them equal to as much work
as if they had beer or spirits?' asked Captain Argent. 'And lumbering seems to me to be particularly
laborious.'

'Weel, there's a fact I'll mak a present to the teetotallers,' answered the foreman. 'Our lumberers
get nothing in the way of stimulant, and they don't seem to want it. When I came fresh from
the auld country, I couldna hardly b'lieve that.'

'Au large, au large!'

At this word of command all hands turned out of the shanty, and went back to work in their
several gangs. Again the fellers attacked the hugest pines; the hewers sprang upon the fallen,
lining and squaring the living trees into dead beams; and the teamsters yoked afresh their
patient oxen, fitting upon each massive throat the heavy wooden collar, and attaching to chains
the ponderous log which should be moved towards the water highway.

Argent and Arthur found themselves presently at the foot of a colossal Weymouth or white pine,
the trunk and top of which were almost as disproportionate as a pillar supporting a paint-brush,
but which the Scottish foreman admired enthusiastically, considering it in the abstract as
'a stick,' and with reference to its future career in the shape of a mast. All due preparation
had been made for its reception upon level earth; a road twenty feet wide cut through the forest,
that it and half-a-dozen brother pines of like calibre in the neighbourhood might travel easily
and safely to the water's edge; and forty yards of bedding timbers lay a ready-made couch,
for its great length.

'I daursay now, that stick's standing aboot a thousand years: I've counted fourteen hunder
rings in the wood of a pine no much bigger. Ou, 'twill mak a gran' mast for a seventy-four--nigh
a hunder feet lang, and as straight as a rod.'

Stripping off the bark and dressing the knots was the next work, which would complete its readiness
for Devonport dockyards, or perchance for the Cherbourg shipwrights. During this operation
the foreman made an excursion to visit his other gangs, and then took his visitors a little
aside into the woods to view what he termed a 'regular take-in.' It was a group of fine-looking
pines, wearing all the outward semblance of health, but when examined, proving mere tubes of
bark, charred and blackened within, and ragged along the seam where the fire had burst out.

'How extraordinary!' said Argent. 'Why were they not burned equally through?'

'I hae been thinkin' the fire caught them in the spring, when the sap rins strong; so the sap-wood
saved thae shells, to misguide the puir axmen. I thought I had a fair couple o' cribs o' lumber
a' ready to hand, when I spied the holes, and found my fine pines naething but empty pipes.'

He had been fashioning two saplings into strong handspikes, and now offered one each to the
gentlemen. 'Ye'll not be too proud to bear a hand wi' the mast aboon: it'll be a kittle job
lugging it to the pond; so just lend us a shove now and then.'

The great mass was at last got into motion, by a difficult concerted starting of all the oxen
at the same moment.

Round the brilliant log fire, while pannikins of tea circulated, and some flakes of the falling
snow outside came fluttering down into the blaze, the lumberers lay on their bunks, or sat
on blocks, talking, sleeping, singing, as the mood moved. French Canadians are native-born
songsters; and their simple ballad melodies, full of réfrain and repetition, sounded very pleasing
even to Argent's amateur ears.

'I can imagine that this shanty life must be pleasant enough,' said Argent, rolling himself
in his buffalo robe preparatory to sleep by the fire.

'I'll just tell ye what it is,' returned the foreman; 'nane that has gane lumbering can tak'
kindly to ony ither calling. They hae caught the wandering instinct, and the free life o' the
woods becomes a needcessity, if I might say sae. D'ye ken the greatest trouble I find in towns?
Trying to sleep on a civilised bed. I canna do't, that's the fact; nor be sitting to civilised
dinners, whar the misguided folk spend thrice the time that's needfu', fiddling with a fork
an' spune. I like to eat an' be done wi' it.'

Which little social trait was of a piece with Mr. Foreman's energy and promptness in all the
circumstances of life. In a very few minutes from the aforesaid speech he was sound asleep,
for he was determined to waste no time in accomplishing that either.

Argent and Arthur left this wood-cutting polity next morning, and worked, or rather hunted
their way back to the settled districts. The former stayed for another idle week at Cedar Creek;
and then the brothers were again alone, to pursue their strife with the forest.

It went on, with varying success, till 'the moon of the snow crust,' as the Ojibbeways poetically
style March. A chaos of fallen trunks and piled logs lay for twenty-five acres about the little
shanty; Robert was beginning to understand why the French Canadians called a cleared patch
'un désert,' for beyond doubt the axe had a desolating result, in its present stage.

'Why, then, Masther Robert, there's one thing I wanted to ax you,' said Andy, resting a moment
from his chopping: 'it's goin' on four months now since we see a speck of green, an' will the
snow ever be off the ground agin, at all, at all?'

'You see the sun is only just getting power enough to melt,' returned his master, tracing with
his axe-head a furrow in the thawing surface.

'But, sure, if it always freezes up tight agin every evenin', that little taste of meltin'
won't do much good,' observed Andy. 'Throth, I'm fairly longin' to see that lake turn into
wather, instead ov bein' as hard as iron. Sure the fish must all be smothered long ago, the
crathurs, in prison down there.'

'Well, Andy, I hope they'll be liberated next month. Meanwhile the ice is a splendid high road.
Look there.'

From behind a wooded promontory, stretching far into the lake, at the distance of about half
a mile from where they were chopping, emerged the figure of a very tall Indian, wrapped in
a dark blanket and carrying a gun. After him, in the stately Indian file, marched two youths,
also armed; then appeared a birchen traineau, drawn by the squaw who had the honour of being
wife and mother respectively to the preceding copper-coloured men, and who therefore was constituted
their beast of burden. A girl and a child--future squaws--shared the toil of pulling along
the family chattels, unaided by the stalwart lords of the creation stalking in front.

'Why, thin, never welcome their impidence, an' to lave the poor women to do all the hard work,
an' they marchin' out forenenst 'em like three images, so stiff an' so sthraight, an' never
spakin' a word. I'm afeard it's here they're comin.' An' I give ye my word she has a child
on her back, tied to a boord; no wondher for 'em to be as stiff as a tongs whin they grows
up, since the babies is rared in that way.'

Not seeming to heed the white men, the Indians turned into a little cove at a short distance,
and stepped ashore. The woman-kind followed, pulling their traineau with difficulty over the
roughnesses of the landing place; while husband and sons looked on tranquilly, and smoked 'kinne-kanik'
in short stone pipes. The elderly squaw deposited her baby on the snow, and also comforted
herself with a whiff; certain vernacular conversation ensued between her and her daughters,
apparently about the place of their camp, and the younger ones set to work clearing a patch
of ground under some birch trees. Mrs. Squaw now drew forth a hatchet from her loaded sledge,
and chopped down a few saplings, which were fixed firmly in the earth again a few yards off,
so as to make an oval enclosure by the help of trees already standing.

'Throth an' I'll go an' help her,' quoth good-natured Andy, whose native gallantry would not
permit him to witness a woman's toil without trying to lighten it. 'Of all the ould lazy-boots
I ever see, ye're the biggest,' apostrophizing the silent stoical Indians as he passed where
they lounged; 'ye've a good right to be ashamed of yerselves, so ye have, for a set of idle
spalpeens.'

The eldest of the trio removed his pipe for an instant and uttered the two words--'I savage.'
Andy's rhetoric had been totally incomprehensible.

'Why, then, ye needn't tell me ye're a savidge: it's as plain as a pikestaff. What'll I do
with this stick, did ye say, ma'am? Oh, surra bit o' me knows a word she's sayin', though it's
mighty like the Irish of a Connaught man. I wondher what it is she's tryin' to make; it resimbles
the beginnin' of a big basket at present, an' meself standin' in the inside of the bottom.
I can't be far asthray if I dhrive down the three where there's a gap. I don't see how they're
to make a roof, an' this isn't a counthry where I'd exactly like to do 'athout one. Now she's
fastenin' down the branches round, stickin' 'em in the earth, an' tyin' 'em together wid cord.
It's the droll cord, never see a rope-walk anyhow.'

Certainly not; for it was the tough bast of the Canadian cedar, manufactured in large quantities
by the Indian women, twisted into all dimensions of cord, from thin twine to cables many fathoms
long; used for snares, fishing nets, and every species of stitching. Mrs. Squaw, like a provident
housekeeper, had whole balls of it in her traineau ready for use; also rolls of birch-bark,
which, when the skeleton wigwam was quite ship-shape, and well interlaced with crossbars of
supple boughs, she began to wrap round in the fashion of a covering skirt.

Had crinoline been in vogue in the year 1851, Robert would have found a parallel before his
eyes, in these birch-bark flounces arranged over a sustaining framework, in four successive
falls, narrowing in circumference as they neared the top, where a knot of bast tied the arching
timbers together. He was interested in the examination of these forest tent cloths, and found
each roll composed of six or seven quadrangular bits of bark, about a yard square apiece, sewed
into a strip, and having a lath stitched into each end, after the manner in which we civilised
people use rollers for a map. The erection was completed by the casting across several strings
of bast, weighted at the ends with stones, which kept all steady.

The male Indians now vouchsafed to take possession of the wigwam. Solemnly stalking up to Andy,
the chief of the party offered his pipe to him for a puff.

'Musha thin, thank ye kindly, an' I'm glad to see ye've some notions o' civiltude, though ye
do work the wife harder than is dacent.' But after a single 'draw,' Andy took the pipe in his
fingers and looked curiously into its bowl. 'It's the quarest tobacco I ever tasted,' he observed:
'throth if I don't think it's nothin' but chips o' bark an' dead leaves. Here 'tis back for
you, sir; it don't shute my fancy, not bein' an Indjin yet, though I dunno what I mightn't
come to.' The pipe was received with the deepest gravity.

No outward sign had testified surprise or any other emotion, at the discovery that white men
had settled close to their 'sugar-bush,' and of course become joint proprietors. The inscrutable
sphinx-like calm of these countenances, the strangeness of this savage life, detained Robert
most of the afternoon as by a sort of fascination. Andy's wrath at the male indolence was renewed
by finding that the squaw and her girls had to cut and carry all the firewood needful: even
the child of seven years old worked hard at bringing in logs to the wigwam. He was unaware
that the Indian women hold labour to be their special prerogative; that this very squaw despised
him for the help he rendered her; and that the observation in her own tongue, which was emphasized
by an approving grunt from her husband, was a sarcasm levelled at the inferiority and mean-spiritedness
of the white man, as exemplified in Andy's person.

One of the young fellows, who had dived into the forest an hour before, returned with spoil
in the shape of a skunk, which the ever-industrious squaw set about preparing for the evening
meal. The fearful odour of the animal appeared unnoticed by the Indians, but was found so hateful
by Robert and his Irish squire, that they left the place immediately.

CHAPTER XXVI.

ON A SWEET SUBJECT.

This Indian family was only the precursor of half a dozen others, who also established 'camps,'
preparatory to their great work of tapping the maple trees. The Wynns found them inoffensive
neighbours, and made out a good deal of amusement in watching their ways.

'I'd clear 'em out of that in no time,' said Zack Bunting, 'if the land were mine. Indians
hain't no rights, bein' savages. I guess they darsn't come nigh my farm down the pond--they'd
be apt to cotch it right slick, I tell you. They tried to pull the wool over my eyes in the
beginnin', an' wanted to be tappin' in my bush as usual, but Zack Buntin' warn't the soft-headed
goney to give in, I tell you. So they vamosed arter jest seein' my double-barrel, an' they
hain't tried it on since. They know'd I warn't no doughface.'

'Well, I mean to let them manufacture as much sugar as they want,' said Robert; 'there's plenty
for both them and me.'

'Rights is rights,' returned Zack, 'as I'd soon show the varmints if they dar'st come near
me. But your Britisher Government has sot 'em up altogether, by makin' treaties with 'em, an'
givin' 'em money, an' buyin' lands from 'em, instead of kickin' 'em out as an everlastin' nuisance.'

'You forget that they originally owned the whole continent, and in common justice should have
the means of livelihood given to them now,' said Robert. 'It is not likely they'll trouble
the white man long.'

'I see yer makin' troughs for the sap,' observed Zack. 'What on airth, you ain't never hewin'
'em from basswood?'

'Why not?'

''Cos 'twill leak every single drop. Yer troughs must be white pine or black ash; an' as ye'll
want to fix fifty or sixty on 'em at all events, that half-dozen ain't much of a loss.'

'Couldn't they be made serviceable anyhow?' asked Robert, unwilling quite to lose the labour
of his hands.

'Wal, you might burn the inside to make the grain closer: I've heerd tell on that dodge. If
you warn't so far from the "Corner," we could fix our sugar together, an' make but one bilin'
of it, for you'll want a team, an' you don't know nothin' about maples.' Zack's eyes were askance
upon Robert. 'We might 'most as well go shares--you give the sap, an' I the labour,' he added.
'I'll jest bring up the potash kettle on the sled a Monday, an' we'll spill the trees. You
cut a hundred little spouts like this: an' have you an auger? There now, I guess that's fixed.'

But he turned back after a few yards to say--'Since yer hand's in, you 'most might jest as
well fix a score troughs for me, in case some o' mine are leaked:' and away he went.

'That old sharper will be sure to have the best of the bargain,' thought Robert. 'It's just
his knowledge pitted against my inexperience. One satisfaction is that I am learning every
day.' And he went on with his troughs and spouts until near sundown, when he and Arthur went
to look at the Indian encampment, and see what progress was being made there.

'I can't imagine,' said the latter, 'why the tree which produces only a watery juice in Europe
should produce a diluted syrup in Canada.'

'Holt said something of the heat of the March sun setting the sap in motion, and making it
sweet. You feel how burning the noon is, these days.'

'That's a statement of a fact, but not an explanation,' said the cavilling Arthur. 'Why should
a hot sun put sugar in the sap?'

Robert had no answer, nor has philosophy either.

The Indians had already tapped their trees, and placed underneath each orifice a sort of rough
bowl, for catching the precious juice as it trickled along a stick inserted to guide its flow.
These bowls, made of the semicircular excrescences on a species of maple, serve various uses
in the cooking line, in a squaw's ménage, along with basins and boxes of the universally useful
birchen bark. When the sap has been boiled down into syrup, and clarified, it is again transferred
to them to crystallize, and become solid in their keeping.

An Indian girl was making what is called gum-sugar, near the kettles: cutting moulds of various
shapes in the snow, and dropping therein small quantities of the boiling molasses, which cooled
rapidly into a tough yellowish substance, which could be drawn out with the fingers like toffy.
Arthur much approved of the specimen he tasted; and without doubt the sugar-making was a sweetmeat
saturnalia for all the 'papooses' in the camp. They sat about on the snow in various attitudes,
consuming whole handfuls and cakes of the hot sweet stuff, with rather more gravity, but quite
as much relish, as English children would display if gifted with the run of a comfit establishment.

'Did you ever see anything like their solemnity, the young monkeys!' said Arthur. 'Certainly
the risible faculties were left out in the composition of the Indian. I wonder whether they
know how to laugh if they tried?'

'Do you know,' said Robert, 'Holt says that Indian mythology has a sort of Prometheus, one
Menabojo, who conferred useful arts upon men; amongst others, this art of making maple-sugar;
also canoe-building, fishing, and hunting.'

'A valuable and original genius,' rejoined Arthur; 'but I wonder what everybody could have
been doing before his advent, without those sources of occupation.'

Zack and his team arrived two mornings subsequently.

'Wal, Robert, I hope you've been a clearin' yer sugar-bush, an' choppin' yer firewood, all
ready. Last night was sharp frosty, an' the sun's glorious bright to-day--the wind west, too.
I hain't seen a better day for a good run o' sap this season. Jump on the sled, Arthur--there's
room by the troughs.'

'No, thank you,' said the young man haughtily, marching on before with his auger. He detested
Zack's familiar manner, and could hardly avoid resenting it.

'We're worth some punkins this mornin', I guess,' observed Zack, glancing after him. 'He'll
run his auger down instead of up, out o' pure Britisher pride an' contrariness, if we don't
overtake him.'

Arthur was just applying the tool to the first tree, when he heard Zack's shout.

'The sunny side! Fix yer spile the sunny side, you goney.'

Which term of contempt did not contribute to Arthur's good humour. He persisted in continuing
this bore where he had begun; and one result was that, at the close of the day, the trough
underneath did not contain by a third as much as those situate on the south side of the trees.

'It ain't no matter o' use to tap maples less than a foot across. They hain't no sugar in 'em,'
said Zack, among his other practical hints. 'The older the tree, the richer the sap. This 'ere
sugar bush is as fine as I'd wish to tap: mostly hard maple, an' the right age. Soft maple
don't make nothing but molasses, hardly--them with whitish skin; so you are safe to chop 'em down.'

The little hollow spouts drained, and the seventy troughs slowly filled, all that livelong
day in the sunny air; until freezing night came down, and the chilled sap shrank back, waiting
for persuasive sunbeams to draw its sweetness forth again. Zack came round with his team next
afternoon, emptied all the troughs into one big barrel on his sled, and further emptied the
barrel into the huge kettle and pot which were swung over a fire near the shanty, and which
he superintended with great devotion for some time.

'I could not have believed that the trees could spare so much juice,' observed Robert. 'Are
they injured by it, Bunting?'

'I ha' known a single maple yield a matter o' fifty gallons, an' that not so big a one neither,'
was the reply. 'An' what's more, they grow the better for the bleedin'. I guess you hadn't
none of this sort o' sugar to hum in England?'

'Not a grain: all cane sugar imported.'

'Wal, you Britishers must be everlastin' rich,' was Zack's reply. 'An' I reckon you don't never
barter, but pays hard cash down? I wish I'd a good store somewhar in your country, Robert:
I guess I'd turn a profit.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

A BUSY BEE.

'We'd ha' best sugar off the whole lot altogether,' Zack had said, and being the only one of
the makers who knew anything about the manufacture, he was permitted to prescribe the procedure.
The dark amber-coloured molasses had stood and settled for some days in deep wooden troughs,
before his other avocations, of farmer and general storekeeper at the 'Corner,' allowed him
to come up to the Cedars and give the finishing touch.

A breathless young Bunting--familiarly known as Ged, and the veriest miniature of his father--burst
into the shanty one day during dinner--a usual visiting hour for members of his family.

'Well, Ged, what do you want?'

'Uncle Zack'll be here first thing in the mornin' to sugar the syrup, and he says yo're to
have a powerful lot o' logs ready chopped for the fires,' was the message. 'I guess I thought
I'd be late for dinner,' the boy added, with a sort of chuckle, 'but I ain't;' and he winked
knowingly.

'Well,' observed Arthur, laughing, 'you Yankees beat all the world for cool impudence.'

'I rayther guess we do, an' fur most things else teu,' was the lad's reply, with his eyes fixed
on the trencher of bear's meat which Andy was serving up for him. 'Don't you be sparing of
the pritters--I'm rael hungry:' and with his national celerity, the viands disappeared.

When the meal was ended, Robert, as always, returned thanks to God for His mercies, in a few
reverent words. The boy stared.

'I guess I hain't never heerd the like of that 'afore,' he remarked. 'Sure, God ain't nowhar
hereabouts?'

Robert was surprised to find how totally ignorant he was of the very rudiments of the Christian
faith. The name of God had reached his ear chiefly in oaths; heaven and hell were words with
little meaning to his darkened mind.

'I thought a Methodist minister preached in your father's big room once or twice a year,' observed
Robert, after some conversation.

'So he do; but I guess we boys makes tracks for the woods; an' besides, there ain't no room
for us nowhar,' said Ged.

Here I may just be permitted to indicate the wide and promising field for missionary labour
that lies open in Canada West. No fetters of a foreign tongue need cramp the ardent thought
of the evangelist, but in his native English he may tell the story of salvation through a land
large as half a dozen European kingdoms, where thousands of his brethren according to the flesh
are perishing for want of knowledge. A few stray Methodists alone have pushed into the moral
wilderness of the backwoods; and what are they among so many? Look at the masses of lumberers:
it is computed that on the Ottawa and its tributaries alone they number thirty thousand men;
spending their Sabbaths, as a late observer has told us, in mending their clothes and tools,
smoking and sleeping, and utterly without religion. Why should not the gospel be preached to
these our brothers, and souls won for Christ from among them?

And in outlying germs of settlements like the 'Corner,' which are the centre of districts of
sparse population, such ignorance as this of young Bunting's, though rare elsewhere in Canada
or the States, is far from uncommon among the rising generation.

Zack arrived with the ox-sled at the time appointed, and Ged perched on it.

'Just look at the pile of vessels the fellow has brought to carry away his share of the molasses
and sugar,' said Arthur, as the clumsy vehicle came lumbering up. ''Twas a great stroke of
business to give us all the trouble, and take all the advantage to himself--our trees, our
fires, nothing but the use of his oxen as a set-off.'

The advantage was less than Arthur supposed; for maples are not impoverished by drainage of
sap, and firewood is so abundant as to be a nuisance. But for Zack's innate love of even the
semblance of overreaching, he might have discerned that his gain in this transaction was hardly
worth the pains.

'Wal, Robert, you ha' poured off the molasses into the kettles; an' now fur the clarifyin'.
I knowed as how ye had nothen' fit--milk, nor calf's blood, nor eggs, nor nothen'--so I brought
up the eggs, an' when we're settlin' shares they kin be considered.'

'The old sharper!' muttered Arthur.

'I'm afeerd like they're beat up already,' said Mr. Bunting, picking them gingerly out of his
pockets, 'though I made Ged drive a purpose. But that near ox has a trick of stickin' over
stumps, an' I had obliged to cut a handspike to him. I declar' if they ain't all whole arter
all, 'cept one.' He smashed them into a wooden bowl half full of molasses, and beat them up
with a chip, then emptied the contents into the kettles, stirring well. Hung over a slow fire,
from a pole resting on two notched posts, the slight simmering sound soon began; and on the
top of the heated fluid gathered a scum, which Zack removed. After some repetitions of this
skimming, and when the molasses looked bright and clear, Mr. Bunting asked for a bit of fat bacon.

'Which can be considered when we're dividing shares,' said Arthur, handing it to him a few
minutes afterwards. A glance was Zack's reply, as he strung the bacon on a cord, and hung it
below the rim, within two inches of the boiling surface.

'Indeed,' quoth Robert, looking on at the operation of this expedient for preventing the spilling
over of the molasses, 'I wonder some cleaner mode of keeping the boiling within bounds has
not been invented.'

'The Scotchman Davidson cools with a run of cold sap, out of a little spout an' a keg; but
them notions don't suit me nohow; the bit o' bacon fixes it jest as right. By the way, did
you hear that his farm is took? By a Britisher gentleman--I'm told an officer, too; I guess
he'll want to back out o' the bush faster than he got in, ef he's like the most of 'em. I know'd
some o' the sort, an' they never did a cent's worth o' good, hardly, though they was above
bein' spoke to. 'Tain't a location for soft hands an' handsome clothes, I guess; an' I declar
ef I don't think I ever saw gentlemen Britishers git along so remarkably smart as yerselves:
but ye hain't been above work, that's a fact.'

The Wynns were glad enough of the prospect of a new neighbour of the educated class; for, more
than once or twice, the total absence of congenial society in any sense of the word had been
felt as a minor privation. Robert foresaw that when with future years came improved means and
enlarged leisure, this need would be greater. Zack thought the new settlers ought to try and
arrive before spring thaw.

'Yer own logging-bee might be 'bout that time, Robert,' he observed, while he narrowly watched
his kettles and their incipient sugar. 'The fallow looks ready for burnin', I guess.'

'Yes, 'tis nearly all chopped and piled; but I'm more anxious to have a raising-bee for my
new house. The logging can wait for a couple of months, Davidson tells me.'

'Wal, you'll want considerable of whisky for the teu,' observed Zack briskly; 'all the "Corner"
'll be sure to come, an' raise yer house off the ground right slick at onst. A frame-house,
I calc'late?'

'Clapboarded and painted, if I can, Mr. Bunting.'

'Now I don't want ever to hear of no better luck than I had in gittin' that consignment of
ile an' white lead t'other day. Jest the very thing fur you, I guess!'

Robert did not seem similarly struck by the coincidence.

'Any one but Zack would have melted away long ago over that roaring fire,' said Arthur some
time afterwards, withdrawing from his kettle to fan himself. 'Being a tall bag of bones, I
suppose he can't dissolve readily. What's he going to do now, I wonder?'

Mr. Bunting had chipped a thin piece of wood from one of the fire logs, and wrought through
it a narrow hole, inch long; this he dipped in the seething molasses, and drew it forth filled
with a thin film, which he blew out with his breath into a long bubble of some tenacity.

'Thar! 'tis sugared at last,' said he, jerking aside the chip; 'an' now fur the pans.'

By a remarkable clairvoyance, just at this juncture various younger members of the Bunting
family made their appearance in the sugar-bush; and as fast as Uncle Zack poured forth the
sweet stuff into the tins and shallow wooden vessels placed to receive it, did half-a-dozen
pilfering hands abstract portions to dip in the snow and devour. Zack's remonstrances and threats
were of no avail, and whenever he made a dash towards them, they dispersed in all directions
'quick as wink.'

'Ef I ketch you, Ged, you'll know the defference of grabbin' a pound out of this 'ere tin,
I guess, you young varmint!'

''Taint so kinder aisy to catch a 'coon, Uncle Zack,' was the lad's rejoinder from the fork
of a birch where he had taken refuge, and sucked his stolen goods at ease. Similar raids harassed
the long line of cooling tins, and not all the efforts of the sugar-makers at mounting guard
could protect them, until the guerilla corps of youngsters became in some degree surfeited,
and slid away through the woods as they had come. Meanwhile, the best part of a stone of the
manufacture had vanished.

'Them are spry chaps, I reckon,' was the parent's reflection, with some pride in their successful
free-booting, though he had opposed its details.

'I would teach them to be honest, Mr. Bunting;' which speech only evoked a laugh.

'Now I guess you're riled 'cos they ran away with yer sugar, jest as ef 'twarn't more mine
than yourn.'

This was unpromising as portended the division into shares, wherein Robert was overreached,
as he knew he should be; but he comforted himself by the reflection that next year he should
be able to do without his odious assistant, and that for this summer he had housekeeping-sugar
enough. He utterly refused to enter into any coalition for the making of vinegar or beer. Towards
the close of the sap season he tapped a yellow birch, by his Scotch neighbour's advice, drew
from it thirty gallons in three days, boiled down that quantity into ten gallons, and set it
to ferment in a sunny place, with a little potato yeast as the exciting cause. Of course the
result was immensely too much vinegar for any possible household needs, considering that not
even a cucumber bed was as yet laid out in the embryo garden.

But now April, 'the moon for breaking the snow-shoes,' in Ojibbeway parlance, was advancing;
patches of brown ground began to appear under the hot sunlight, oozy and sloppy until the two-feet
depth of frost was gradually exhaled. The dwellers in the shanty had almost forgotten the look
of the world in colours, for so many months had it slept in white array. Robert could have
kissed the earliest knot of red and blue hepaticas which bloomed at the base of a log-heap.
But he looked in vain for that eldest child of an English spring, 'the wee modest crimson-tipped'
daisy, or for the meek nestling primrose among the moss. And from the heaven's blue lift no
music of larks poured down; no twitter of the chaffinch or whistle of the thrush echoed from
the greening woods. Robert thought the blue-bird's voice a poor apology for his native songsters.

He had, indeed, little time for any reflections unconnected with hard work. The cedar swamp
was shrinking before his axe, and yielding its fragrant timbers for the future house. From
early morning till late at night the three men never ceased labour except for short meals;
having, as their object and reward, the comfort of those dear ones who would arrive in July
or August at farthest.

The existing shanty was to be retained as kitchen, and a little room could be railed off the
end as a place for stores. Four apartments would constitute the new house, one of them to be
a sitting room for the mother and Linda. How easy to build and furnish in fancy; how difficult
in fact! Yet the raising-bee accomplished a great deal, though the Yankee storekeeper was discomfited
to find that Davidson of Daisy Burn had undertaken the guidance of the hive; he sulked somewhat
in consequence, and also because the consumption of spirits was not, as he had contemplated,
to intoxication. Robert was backed by his sturdy Scottish neighbour in that resolve; and the
more sensible of the workers could not but approve.

Four walls and roof were put together by the joint-stock labour of the day. Standing in the
vacant doorway, Robert looked over the moonlit view of woods and islanded lake well pleased.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

OLD FACES UPON NEW NEIGHBOURS.

Now, while Arthur devoted himself chiefly to the interior carpentering, Robert burned and cleared
a patch of fallow to be a garden. Their good friend Hiram Holt, among his other useful gifts,
had sent with them in the waggon a stock of young apple trees, which had lain all winter half
buried in a corner of the hut, to be grubbed up in spring and planted out in rows four rods
apart. Beds of potatoes and turnips, set at the edges with pumpkin seeds and squares of Indian
corn, filled the garden space in an orderly manner before the end of May; then rail fences
sprang up about it, and the first bit of forest was fairly reclaimed.

During breakfast one morning, Andy rushed in, proclaiming that a raft was in sight on the lake,
'one 'most as big as a five-acre field,' he said. This proved rather an imaginative description
on Andy's part, like many other of his verbal sketches; for the raft was infantine compared
with its congeners of the great lake and the St. Lawrence. A couple of bonds lashed together--that
was all; and a bond containeth twenty cribs, and a crib containeth a variable amount of beams,
according to lumberers' arithmetical tables. Arthur recognised his acquaintance, the Scotch
foreman, pacing the deck; he hailed the unwieldy craft, and shipped himself aboard for a voyage
to the 'Corner,' where he had business at the store.

'Wid a horn in front, an' a tail behind, there it goes,' observed Andy, in allusion to the
long oars projecting from rowlocks at each end. 'An' now, Masther Robert, what'll become o'
that in the rapids below the sawmill? Sure 'twill be batthered in pieces, an' the water so
mighty coorse intirely there; enough to make chaneys of any raft.'

''Twill be taken asunder, and the cribs sent down separately over the falls,' replied Mr. Wynn.

Arthur saw the operation by and by, and the hardy raftsmen shooting the rapids in what appeared
to him circumstances of exciting peril. While he and all the disengaged dwellers at the 'Corner'
were as yet looking on, a waggon came in sight from among the trees, and turned their curiosity
into another channel.

Gradually it drew near, stumbling among the stumps and ruts, with all sorts of language applied
to the oxen. Arthur thought he had formerly seen that figure marching by the off-wheel. That
peculiar gentleman-like and military air, even shouldering a handspike, could not be mistaken.

'I guess as how 'tis the Britisher officer as has took Davidson's betterments,' said 'cute
Zack; 'an' thar's womanfolks behind the waggon afoot. Wal, now, but I say I do pity them Britisher
ladies a-coming into the bush--them that hain't never in their hull life as much as baked a
biscuit. I ha' seen the like o' such in Montreal--delicate critters, that you wouldn't hardly
think knowed the use of a fryin'-pan when they see'd it, an' couldn't lift one if they was
to git a handful o' dollars. I guess these ain't much betterer nohow.'

It was a homily on the appearance of Edith Armytage and the child Jay picking their steps along
after the waggon; while within, on hampers and boxes, stretched heavily, lay their brother,
taking things easy by means of sleep. The captain's salute to Arthur was most cordial.

'So, my dear young friend! What most fortunate fate has thrown us together again? A very pleasant
freak of destiny, truly. I left you last with an uncomfortable old gentleman, who was particularly
obstinate in his opinions about the seignorial system, as I remember. He was right, my young
friend, in condemning that system, eh? Perfectly right. I left it in disgust. Incompatible
with a British officer's feelings, eh?'

Here his monologue was disturbed by little Jay's running up to Arthur very joyously. 'I told
Edith we should meet you. I knew we should. And how is Robert and your funny servant? Ah, I
am very glad!'

'Jane, my dear, I have repeatedly told you not to be so boisterous,' put in her father. 'Go
back, and walk with your sister Edith.'

The little girl tried to withdraw her hand and obey, though with a wistful look; but Arthur
detained it, and went with her the few steps to meet Miss Armytage:

'Edith, are you not glad? They all live at Cedar Creek, quite close to Daisy Burn, and we can
see them every day; and he says Daisy Burn is a very nice place'--

'I have had some experience of children,' began Captain Armytage stiffly, 'but one so talkative
as Jane I have seldom met. You should correct her, Edith, my dear.' For the man's voice was
what he wished to hear. Edith's hand was most gently laid on the dear little sister's arm as
a caution; but at this juncture both gentlemen were obliged to press forward and help the oxen
out of some critical situations, and Jay could whisper her delight and her anticipations without
fear of reprimand for a few minutes at least.

Then, when the waggon brought up in front of Mr. Bunting's store, young Armytage woke up with
a mighty yawn and stretch to declare that bush travelling was the greatest bore--would they
ever reach the farm? And he thereupon arose to the exertion of kindling his pipe.

'Nonsense, Wynn, can that be you? Glad to see some face I know among these endless trees. They're
nearly as sickening to me as waves to a fellow in his first voyage. Hope the farm has been
well cleared of them. You know the ground, eh?'

'Not all cleared by any means; but if you had to take the axe in hand as we have'--

'Gentlemen, are you going to liquor?' said Zack in a persuasive tone, marshalling the way into
his bar. 'Almeria, tell your ma to bring here some of her best beer to treat these gentlemen--partic'lar
friends. Be spry, will you?'

The tawny black-eyed young lady answering to the above high-sounding cognomen returned in a
few moments with a jug, whence her father poured forth three horn goblets of dark fluid. Arthur,
through superior knowledge not touching his, was highly amused by the grimaces of the others.
Indeed, the captain had swallowed a huge gulp of it before he realized fully its strange flavour,
and then could but sputter and scour his moustache and lips with his handkerchief. Mr. Bunting
looked on with exemplary gravity.

'Thar! I told th' ole woman that spruce beer ain't so good as usual this brewin'.'

'Good! the vilest compound. A fir-tree steeped in a stagnant pool!' exclaimed the irate captain,
with considerable warmth of colouring. 'Bring me something, sirrah, to take away the odious
taste--anything you like.'

Mr. Bunting obeyed with alacrity. Arthur left father and son over their pipes and glasses,
and went outside to join Miss Armytage and Jay, who had declined various overtures to enter
the store, and were the cynosure of all eyes in the 'Corner' as they walked to and fro on the
stumpless strip of ground in the place--a fair child and a pale girl. Presently forth came
the captain.

'Edith, my dear,' he said blandly, 'I may be detained here for half an hour; I find that mine
host, Mr. Bunting, has a very exact knowledge of the locality to which we are going. I think
you both might be going on with the waggon; your brother will follow in a minute or so when
his smoke is finished, he says. Driver, you may go forward; au revoir, Edith.'

He kissed the tips of his fingers to his daughter gallantly, and passed into the bar again
with a jaunty air.

'If you will allow me to accompany you,' said Arthur, seeing that she hesitated, 'you will
do me a kindness, for I have rather a large pack to carry going home; I can rest it on the
waggon; and Daisy Burn is more than half-way to Cedar Creek.'

'Did I not tell you we would find out Arthur and Robert?' said the child Jay, with an ecstatic
clasp of her fingers upon young Wynn's. 'You said you were afraid we should have no friends
in the woods, but I knew that God would not let us be so forsaken as that.'

And the three walked on into the long vista of the concession line.

CHAPTER XXIX.

ONE DAY IN JULY.

A summer more glorious than our settlers could have imagined, followed on the steps of the
tardy spring. What serene skies--what brilliant sunshine--what tropical wealth of verdure!
At every pore the rich earth burst forth into fruit and flower. Two months after the grass
had been sunk deep beneath the snow, sheets of strawberries were spread in the woods, an extemporized
feast.

One might think that the cottage at Cedar Creek had also bloomed under the fair weather; for
when July--hottest of Canadian months--came, the dingy wooden walls had assumed a dazzling
white, with a roof so grey that the shingles might have been veritable slates. Resemblance
to the lime-washed houses of home was Robert's fancy; which, in Zack Bunting's mind, was a
perverted taste, as he recommended a brilliant green groundwork, picked out with yellow, such
canary-bird costume being favourite in Yankee villages.

The few feet of garden railed off in front are filled with bushes of the fragrant Canadian
wild-rose; yellow violets, lobelias, and tiger-lilies, transplanted thither from the forest
glades, appear to flourish. The brothers had resolved that Linda should not miss her flower-beds
and their gentle care even in bush-life.

For the rest, the clearing looks wild enough, notwithstanding all civilising endeavours. That
mighty wall of trees has not been pushed back far, and the débris of the human assault, lying
on the soil in vast wooden lengths, seems ponderous even to discouragement. Robert has been
viewing it all through stranger eyes for the last week, since he heard the joyful news that
they for whom he has worked have landed at Montreal; he has been putting finishing touches
wherever he could, yet how unfinished it is!

To-day Andy alone is in possession; for his young masters have gone to meet the expected waggon
as far as Peter Logan's--nay, to Greenock if necessary. He has abundance of occupation for
the interval; first, to hill up a patch of Indian corn with the hoe, drawing the earth into
little mounds five or six inches high round each stalk; and after that, sundry miscellaneous
duties, among which milking the cow stands prominent. She is enjoying herself below in the
beaver meadow, while the superior animal, Andy, toils hard among the stumps, and talks to himself,
as wont.

'Why, thin, I wondher what th' ould masther 'ull say to our clearin', an' how he'll take to
the life, at all, at all; he that niver did a hand's turn yet in the way of business, only
'musin' himself wid papers an' books as any gintleman ought; how he'll stand seein' Masther
Robert hoein' and choppin' like a labourin' man? More be token, it's little o' that thim pair
down at Daisy Burn does. I b'lieve they 'spect things to grow ov thimselves 'athout any cultivatin'.
An' to see that poor young lady hillin' the corn herself--I felt as I'd like to bate both the
captin an' his fine idle son--so I would, while I could stand over 'em.'

He executed an aërial flourish with his hoe, and the minute after, found practical occupation
for it in chasing two or three great swine who were poking at the fence, as if they longed
for the sweet young cornstalks within. Whence the reader may perceive that Mr.