MISSIONARY ANNALS. (A SERIES.)

A STORY OF ONE SHORT LIFE, 1783 to 1818.

BY ELISABETH G. STRYKER.  7

  II. COLLEGE--THE HAYSTACK--EFFORTS TO SPREAD THE INTEREST
      IN FOREIGN MISSIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

 III. OBOOKIAH IN HAWAII--IN AMERICA . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

  IV. THE SANDWICH ISLANDS WITH AND WITHOUT THE GOSPEL . . . . 20

   V. MILLS AT ANDOVER--THE AMERICAN BOARD . . . . . . . . . . 22

  VI. AN APOSTOLIC JOURNEY IN THE UNITED STATES  . . . . . . . 25

 VII. MILLS' SECOND TOUR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28

VIII. THE AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY--THE UNITED FOREIGN
      MISSIONARY SOCIETY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

  IX. THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY--MILLS, AS ITS AGENT,
      VISITS AFRICA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

   X. THE LAST JOURNEY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

As I write, I have in my mind a row of intelligent boyish faces. Manly souls look through bright
eyes. My heart responds to the beats of affection beneath jacket and cut-away.

I see also a row of girlish faces, in which Christian and womanly graces are dawning. I feel
the warmth of pure young hearts beginning to swell with generous desires.

These are my real friends. Beyond them I see rows and rows of boys and girls whose sympathies
and interest I would gladly claim.

PREFACE.

Those among us interested in the young people, the boys and girls of our Churches, somewhat
realize the lack of material wherewith to stimulate and nourish these young workers. The apiarist
studies the nature of the insect which must yield him its sweets, and discovers that "the nature
of the cell and the food affects the difference" in the bees. We have long watched our boys
and girls, and either we do not care what they yield, or we are dull not to notice that what
surrounds them and enters into their minds, is surely deciding their natures. White clover
honey can only be made from white clover blossoms. What they read and what they may be induced
to read concerns us as mission workers. Individual tastes make many by-paths in the field of
literature, but the girls all enjoy the windings of romance, and the boys delight in the highway
of adventure. "But," they say or think, "Missions, their history and progress are so stupid,
they have no decent heroes and heroines. We like Robinson Crusoe, and Little Women, and the
Arabian Nights!" But do we not know that the stories of the lives of some of our missionaries,
well told, may stand side by side, upon the book-shelves and in the hearts of our young people,
with the pages of De Foe and Louise Alcott? Many a boy and girl, charmed by the life and fortune
of some unreal, and oftentimes unworthy, hero, has attempted to make copy in his or her own
life. Missionary lives are not lacking in the spirit, adventure and romance which are so fascinating.
With these ideals in their minds, may we not expect followers of the Judsons, the Moffats,
the Fiskes and the Rankins?

The writer, who has humbly undertaken to re-tell an old tale, is neither a De Foe nor an Alcott.
She finds she can borrow neither of their pens. Her own, conscious of its inexperience, finds
its only relief in the fact that the story is its own strength.

SAMUEL J. MILLS.

CHAPTER I.

ANCESTRY--BIRTH--BOYHOOD--CONVERSION.

Our country is quietly enjoying the benefits of a great activity. Foreign Missions are still
feeling a noble impulse, and the origin of this force was, under God, in the heart and brain
of Samuel J. Mills.

It is a name known to us, but a history almost forgotten. Only upon the shelves of some antiquarian,
or in the undisturbed library of some old homestead can a volume be found bearing the title
"Mills' Memoirs." Take it down, blow the dust from the leaves yellow with sixty-seven years,
and you will find the narrative related in the stately, old-time style, and somewhat laudatory
and expansive.

He had no son, as Adoniram Judson had, gladly to record the details of his busy life. The writer
was Dr. Gardiner Spring, who laments having failed in the attempt to obtain what appeared to
him to be important information. We are thankful to him for gathering even these rare fragments.

From a sketch of Salmon Giddings, the Damon Memorial, a letter from a relative of Mills, and
the life of Henry Obookiah have come a few incidents and facts, but mainly in the record of
Dr. Spring have we found our Story of One Short Life. Such hid treasure should find the light,
even though quarried by unskillful hands.

Biographies are apt to seem discouraging, in the beginning; the attention being riveted upon
the supposed hero, meets with a shock in finding it has been following the history of his great-grandfather.
The scattered energies are then directed upon the grandfather, only to meet with a second delay.
Again recovering, and following the father's fortunes, the son, the subject of the work, is
at last introduced.

The great-grandfather of our hero must be brought in just long enough to answer one question.
He was once asked, "How did you educate four sons at Yale College, and give each a profession?"
His reply was, "Almighty God did it, with the help of my wife." The grandfather (of our hero)
was drowned while some of his children were still young. His widow, committing their babes
to the God of the fatherless, especially offered for His service, a son named Samuel John.
He became a minister, and for many years was settled in Torringford, Connecticut. He was eminent
for his ability and character. Mrs. Stowe said of him--"He was one ingrain New Englander. Of
all the marvels that astonished my childhood, there is none I remember to this day with so
much interest as Father Mills." This was the name by which he was extensively known. His wife
was a woman exemplary and devout.

Being assured that the three preceding generations were commandment-keeping, we shall see how
the Lord showed mercy unto the fourth. Almighty God and a true mother secure for many a man's
sons, not only education, but large efficiency and honor.

The seventh child, born April 21st, 1783, in this Torringford home, was a son, named after
his father, Samuel John. The child grew to be a mighty instrument in God's hand, which He in
His wisdom selected, knowing the fineness of the material with which he dealt. That we too
may know something of the tempering of the steel, we are permitted a reverent glance into that
pious mother's bosom. Before the birthday came she continually dedicated the little life beneath
her heart to the God who is pleased to accept such gifts. During all his childhood he received
the most careful Christian training. Nourished in such a home-garden, and shined on by such
mother-light, we cannot wonder that the child grew toward the Sun, and that the roots of religious
character struck deep and spread wide.

When but a little child he showed an unusual concern of conscience. At fifteen the town in
which he lived was greatly aroused and revived. His friends and acquaintances received the
blessing, and he was deeply interested, but the revival passed, leaving him with a bitter,
rebellious feeling in his heart.

About this time, one fine cold winter morning, a merry sleigh load drove from his father's
house. He, with his brothers, sisters and cousins, about eighteen in all, went to spend a few
days with his uncle in West Hartford. Samuel had recently come into the possession of a fine
farm. He was gay and ambitious. His companions fearing his good fortune might make him feel
a "little too high minded," sought to tease him. The evening before their return, after eating
nuts and apples, they agreed to have a little singing. They struck up "Hark, from the Tombs
a Doleful Sound," to the tune, Bangor. They sang it slowly and solemnly, now and then casting
at him glances from their mischievous eyes. He sat a silent listener, while their song, sung
in fun, made an earnest impression of which he could not rid himself.

Soon after his farm was sold, and at eighteen he determined to go to Litchfield and study in
the Academy. As he was leaving home, his mother's anxious heart could not let him go without
enquiring for his soul's health. Other mothers know the pain she suffered, when he told her
"for two years I have been sorry God ever made me." She replied to him as her wise heart prompted
her, and sent him on his way. She went where all mothers of boys must so often go, to her knees,
alone with God.

He had not gone far on his journey when he met a Friend. It was the Good Shepherd, whom that
mother's urgent prayer had sent searching for the wanderer. It was as if he had met Christ
in his path. He looked up at the great trees and down at the blossoms, and in everything saw
God. He became so impressed with the perfections of the Holy One he had so long resisted, that
he lost sight of himself. He sat down in the woods to wonder and to pray. It was not until
some time after that he realized any change in himself, and not until he returned from Litchfield
did his father perceive it. His conversion was thorough. Not only was he turned about,--his
face God-ward instead of self-ward,--but he was impelled toward "those sitting in darkness."
In his childhood, from his mother's lips, he often heard stories from the lives of Brainerd,
Eliot, and other missionaries. He heard her prayers for them and their great undertakings.
Once he heard her say, "I have consecrated this child to the service of God as a missionary."
Now it was his joy to follow those noble examples, and to fulfill his part in the plans of
God and his mother for him. His parents approved of his determination, though the thought of
separation tore their hearts. His mother said to him, "I cannot bear to part from you, my son."
When he reminded her of her vow, she burst into tears, and never after made complaint. To his
father he said that he could "not conceive of any course of life in which to pass the rest
of his days, that would prove so pleasant, as to go and communicate the gospel of salvation
to the poor heathen."

This desire to spread the Gospel grew to be a sublime purpose, and from it he never wavered.
He set about his plannings, with this supreme end in view. Thanking God for his own salvation,
he laid his life in God's hand, imploring Him to use it for those who had as yet no knowledge
of that mercy. The Lord took him from the plough, as he did Elisha. He left the field for the
college.

He entered Williams College in the spring of 1806. During his first visit home in June, he
connected himself with his father's church. A college course means to some young men four years
of frolic, or worse. To others it is an opportunity to cram knowledge, that shall by-and-by
astound the round world and they that dwell therein. To one, at least, it was the time for
choosing "smooth stones" for his combat with the giant adversary, whom he was brave enough
to meet alone, if need be, "in the name of the Lord of Hosts."

As a scholar he was not brilliant, but as a Christian he was "a bright and shining light."
To serve God was the highest aim of his life. First of all, he served Him upon his knees. He
used to pray often and earnestly, alone and with others. He pursued his studies for the after
use he might make of them, not for his own accomplishment. As he visited his friends in their
rooms, and walked with them through the groves, the subject dearest to his heart was oftenest
the theme of his conversation. To one friend he said: "Though you and I are very little beings,
we must not rest satisfied till we have made our influence extend to the remotest corner of
this ruined world."

His life was so consistent, his disposition so sweet, his manners so winning that every one
was his friend. Those who had been unfaithful to their vows were reproved, and those opposed
to religion were induced to follow his example. During his first year there was a revival,
which seemed to come in answer to his earnest prayers. Many of his comrades became Christians,
and so earnestly that they laid aside or sanctified their old ambitions, and prepared to spread
through the earth the fire kindled by this devoted youth.

A mission band of boys were examined as to their knowledge of Samuel Mills. "Where was he born?"
asked the leader. "Under a haystack!" replied a small boy. Had the question been, Where was
the American Board of Foreign Missions born? the answer would not have been so far from the
way. Its baptismal naming came some years later, but under a stack of hay in a meadow, near
Williams College, it was born, nursed and prayed over.

About fourteen years earlier foreign missionary organization had begun across the Atlantic.
On this side, the attention of Christians had been occupied with their new homes and the needs
of the destitute near at hand. There were societies of domestic missions; but no scheme to
touch hands God-blessed with hands idol-cursed, had ever been devised before the Lord of both
put it into the heart of Mills. "God called him out of the midst of the bush." The bush was
this haystack, but the place became "holy ground." The Lord said: "I have surely seen the affliction
of my people, and have heard their cry." "Come now, therefore, and I will send thee."

This commission filled his soul. He gathered a few of his friends in a grove, to tell them
his convictions and his hopes. What was his surprise and joy to find that the "Angel of the
Lord" had appeared to them also. A sudden thunder storm came upon them here, but his retreat,
his place of safety, was near by. He led them under the haystack, and there they talked together,
and with God. And there they continued to meet through two seasons, and finally formed themselves
into the first Foreign Missionary Society of this continent. Its object was "to effect in the
persons of its members a mission to the heathen."

From the spot where the haystack once stood, now rises a marble shaft, bearing aloft a globe,
underneath which is inscribed:

               "THE FIELD IS THE WORLD."

  "The Birthplace of American Foreign Missions, 1806."

                  SAMUEL J. MILLS,
                  JAMES RICHARDS,
                  FRANCIS L. ROBBINS,
                  HARVEY LOOMIS,
                  BYRAM GREEN.

At every commencement, the college president leads to this monument a procession of alumni,
students, and guests. Prayer is offered that the spirit of missions may still prevail at Williams,
and that the traditions of the past may be maintained.

In these years public opinion was decidedly opposed to the enterprise of these young men. Even
good men thought their zeal extravagant and expected it soon to subside. In order to arouse
sympathy and a right sentiment, they devised various means. They discussed their projects with
Christian people. They distributed missionary sermons. A list was made of the names of distinguished
ministers, to whom these young men made frequent visits, urging their suit. Among them, the
first to take fire, was Dr. Worcester. With one of them, Dr. Griffin, Mills asked to be permitted
to study theology. Said the Doctor: "I had always refused such applications, but from the love
I bore to him, I agreed to criticise one sermon a week. After that exercise he would commonly
sit and draw letters very moderately and cautiously from his pocket, reading passages to me
on some benevolent project. At length I perceived that studying divinity with me had been quite
a secondary object, that his chief object was to get me engaged to execute his plans. As soon
as I discovered that, I told him to bring out his letters and all his plans, without reserve."

Mills became convinced that they could not expect help from the Churches unless the number
was increased of young men ready to devote their lives to this cause. He and his friends then
separated for the purpose of establishing societies in other colleges. Mills went to Yale,
hoping there to find kindred spirits. This was not the case, but God had sent him for another
purpose, and that to know Obookiah, a heathen boy from the Sandwich Islands. This acquaintance
greatly increased his zeal.

Sometimes a little seed, wafted by the wind, is borne far from its mother plant to take root
in a foreign soil: but its fruit may be returned whence it came. This little lonely heathen
child, blown by seemingly cruel and adverse winds, was tossed upon our Christian shores by
the good hand of God. The ship which brought him touched other and idolatrous lands, but he
was not to put his feet down till they could be planted in the right place.

That his life touched Mills' life, both being quickened, is perhaps reason enough for giving
here a portion of Obookiah's history and that of his native land, if there were not another
reason, and that the opportunity, here afforded, of following a stream of influence to its sea.

CHAPTER III.

OBOOKIAH IN HAWAII--IN AMERICA.

Henry Obookiah was born in Hawaii, about the year 1792. When about twelve years old, two parties
contending for dominion, disturbed the peace of the island. He alone survived the persecution
of his family. He was captured and carried home by the man who killed his parents, but finally
made his way to an uncle. Though he was well treated, he suffered from loneliness. He said
of himself, "When I was at play with other children, after we had made an end of playing, they
return to their parents: but I was returned into tears, for I have no home, neither father
nor mother. Poor boy am I."

He determined to go to some other country, and forget his sorrow. The captain of an American
vessel showed him kindness, and consented to take him on board. He brought him to America,
and took him to his own home in New Haven. Henry was a clumsy, stupid-looking boy at this time,
his appearance not revealing the undeveloped depths of his nature. He made the acquaintance
of some of the students at Yale College, and of the Rev. E. W. Dwight. These friends becoming
interested in his welfare, offered to teach him. He accepted their aid with avidity, and made
wonderful progress, at the same time becoming more and more lovable and attractive.

A fun-loving disposition soon showed itself. He had great difficulty in pronouncing the letter
r, giving it the sound of l. Every day his teacher tried to help him, saying, "try, Obookiah,
it is very easy." This seemed to amuse the boy greatly, though as yet he could not express
himself in English. Some time after, when he could speak more readily, he was describing to
his teacher some of the customs of his native land. Clasping his hands together, and adjusting
his thumbs, he formed a cup which he raised to his lips to show how his countrymen drank from
a spring. His instructor tried to do the same, but before he could reach his mouth with his
hands the cup would be inverted so that the contents, had there been any, would have been spilled.
Obookiah laughed heartily and said, "try, Mr. Dwight, it is very easy!"

One day he mimicked the gait of some of his friends so cleverly, that there was no mistaking
whom he intended to personate. His teacher then mocked his own awkward style, when he exclaimed
several times: "me walk so?" Being assured that it was true, he rolled upon the floor until
his mirth exhausted his strength.

After being instructed about the true God, idol worship seemed to him ridiculous. He said,
"Hawaii gods! They wood,--burn. Me go home, put 'em in a fire, burn 'em up. They no see, no
hear, no anything." Then added, "We make them. Our God," looking up, "He make us."

After Mr. Mills arrived in New Haven he became a friend of Mr. Dwight's, and being often in
his room, occasionally heard this boy recite. He became greatly attached to him, and began
to cherish a plan for his future. He wanted to see Obookiah a Christian, educated, and then
a missionary to his native land.

One evening Mr. Mills had not been long in Mr. Dwight's room, when Obookiah came in with a
very gloomy face. He said he had no place to live; Mr. ---- didn't want him any more, and Miss
---- had threatened to take away his new clothes. Mr. Mills told him he would take him to his
own home, and that he had clothes enough for both. This cheered the poor, disconsolate fellow,
who soon went with Mr. Mills to Torringford, and was placed under the "care of those whose
benevolence was without a bond or check, or a limit to confine it." Here he spent a part of
the year 1810, and was treated wisely and affectionately. Mrs. Mills taught him the Catechism,
and her son Jeremiah assisted him in his studies. At different times, and frequently, their
house was his home.

He became gentle and refined in his manner, a Bible-loving, earnest, prayerful Christian. His
friends who had been so careful in the training of his mind and heart, had not neglected his
hands. He was taught much that was useful and practical, particularly in farming. He surprised
all by the quickness and eagerness with which he learned. He was both inquisitive and acquisitive
to a remarkable degree. He persisted in knowing and getting, that he might impart what he had
gained to his own countrymen. To return to them for their enlightenment, was his consuming desire.

He visited many families, and many of the churches of New England, always creating a deep interest
in his mission. Many people who had affirmed that the heathen could never be reclaimed from
their low estate, were forced to change their opinions after seeing and knowing Obookiah, and
were inspired to pray and give for his and other unevangelized races.

The presence of Obookiah in this country, as well as of other heathen youth, together with
the desire to educate some of our own Indians, led to the formation of the Foreign Mission
School, at Cornwall, Mass. This school was under the care of the American Board ten years.
Its pupils were from many different nations. In 1826 it was discontinued, for by this time
the missions were able to educate the young at their several stations.

Obookiah was pursuing his studies here, when, in the beginning of the year 1818, he was stricken
with typhus fever, and suffered several weeks. On the 17th of February, 1818, he shook hands
with all his companions present, and with perfect composure addressed to them the parting salutation
of his native language, "Alloah ò e"--"my love be with you."

Mrs. Stone, in whose house he died, and who cared for him with Christian kindness during his
sickness, said, "This had been one of the happiest and most profitable periods of her life;
that she had been more than rewarded for her cares and watchings by day and night, in being
permitted to witness his excellent example, and to hear his godly conversation."

Almost immediately after his death, missionaries, inspired by his life, hastened to accomplish
his cherished purpose, the establishment of a mission in the Sandwich Islands. Mills was far
from home, but returning at the time, not knowing Obookiah had died, he said to a friend, "If
it please God that I may arrive safely, I think that I shall take Obookiah and go to the Sandwich
Islands and there I will end my life."

