It has no such interest in the surgeon's vices. The surgeon's art is exercised at its expense,
not for its gratification. We do not go to the operating table as we go to the theatre, to
the picture gallery, to the concert room, to be entertained and delighted: we go to be tormented
and maimed, lest a worse thing should befall us. It is of the most extreme importance to us
that the experts on whose assurance we face this horror and suffer this mutilation should leave
no interests but our own to think of; should judge our cases scientifically; and should feel
about them kindly. Let us see what guarantees we have: first for the science, and then for
the kindness.

ARE DOCTORS MEN OF SCIENCE?

I presume nobody will question the existence of widely spread popular delusion that every doctor
is a titan of science. It is escaped only in the very small class which understands by science
something more than conjuring with retorts and spirit lamps, magnets and microscopes, and discovering
magical cures for disease. To a sufficiently ignorant man every captain of a trading schooner
is a Galileo, every organ-grinder a Beethoven, every piano-tuner a Hemholtz, every Old Bailey
barrister a Solon, every Seven Dials pigeon dealer a Darwin, every scrivener a Shakespear,
every locomotive engine a miracle, and its driver no less wonderful than George Stephenson.
As a matter of fact, the rank and file of doctors are no more scientific than their tailors;
or, if you prefer to put it the reverse way, their tailors are no less scientific than they.
Doctoring is an art, not a science: any layman who is interested in science sufficiently to
take in one of the scientific journals and follow the literature of the scientific movement,
knows more about it than those doctors (probably a large majority) who are not interested in
it, and practise only to earn their bread. Doctoring is not even the art of keeping people
in health (no doctor seems able to advise you what to eat any better than his grandmother or
the nearest quack): it is the art of curing illnesses. It does happen exceptionally that a
practising doctor makes a contribution to science (my play describes a very notable one); but
it happens much oftener that he draws disastrous conclusions from his clinical experience because
he has no conception of scientific method, and believes, like any rustic, that the handling
of evidence and statistics needs no expertness. The distinction between a quack doctor and
a qualified one is mainly that only the qualified one is authorized to sign death certificates,
for which both sorts seem to have about equal occasion. Unqualified practitioners now make
large incomes as hygienists, and are resorted to as frequently by cultivated amateur scientists
who understand quite well what they are doing as by ignorant people who are simply dupes. Bone-setters
make fortunes under the very noses of our greatest surgeons from educated and wealthy patients;
and some of the most successful doctors on the register use quite heretical methods of treating
disease, and have qualified themselves solely for convenience. Leaving out of account the village
witches who prescribe spells and sell charms, the humblest professional healers in this country
are the herbalists. These men wander through the fields on Sunday seeking for herbs with magic
properties of curing disease, preventing childbirth, and the like. Each of them believes that
he is on the verge of a great discovery, in which Virginia Snake Root will be an ingredient,
heaven knows why! Virginia Snake Root fascinates the imagination of the herbalist as mercury
used to fascinate the alchemists. On week days he keeps a shop in which he sells packets of
pennyroyal, dandelion, etc., labelled with little lists of the diseases they are supposed to
cure, and apparently do cure to the satisfaction of the people who keep on buying them. I have
never been able to perceive any distinction between the science of the herbalist and that of
the duly registered doctor. A relative of mine recently consulted a doctor about some of the
ordinary symptoms which indicate the need for a holiday and a change. The doctor satisfied
himself that the patient's heart was a little depressed. Digitalis being a drug labelled as
a heart specific by the profession, he promptly administered a stiff dose. Fortunately the
patient was a hardy old lady who was not easily killed. She recovered with no worse result
than her conversion to Christian Science, which owes its vogue quite as much to public despair
of doctors as to superstition. I am not, observe, here concerned with the question as to whether
the dose of digitalis was judicious or not; the point is, that a farm laborer consulting a
herbalist would have been treated in exactly the same way.

BACTERIOLOGY AS A SUPERSTITION

The smattering of science that all--even doctors--pick up from the ordinary newspapers nowadays
only makes the doctor more dangerous than he used to be. Wise men used to take care to consult
doctors qualified before 1860, who were usually contemptuous of or indifferent to the germ
theory and bacteriological therapeutics; but now that these veterans have mostly retired or
died, we are left in the hands of the generations which, having heard of microbes much as St.
Thomas Aquinas heard of angels, suddenly concluded that the whole art of healing could be summed
up in the formula: Find the microbe and kill it. And even that they did not know how to do.
The simplest way to kill most microbes is to throw them into an open street or river and let
the sun shine on them, which explains the fact that when great cities have recklessly thrown
all their sewage into the open river the water has sometimes been cleaner twenty miles below
the city than thirty miles above it. But doctors instinctively avoid all facts that are reassuring,
and eagerly swallow those that make it a marvel that anyone could possibly survive three days
in an atmosphere consisting mainly of countless pathogenic germs. They conceive microbes as
immortal until slain by a germicide administered by a duly qualified medical man. All through
Europe people are adjured, by public notices and even under legal penalties, not to throw their
microbes into the sunshine, but to collect them carefully in a handkerchief; shield the handkerchief
from the sun in the darkness and warmth of the pocket; and send it to a laundry to be mixed
up with everybody else's handkerchiefs, with results only too familiar to local health authorities.

In the first frenzy of microbe killing, surgical instruments were dipped in carbolic oil, which
was a great improvement on not dipping them in anything at all and simply using them dirty;
but as microbes are so fond of carbolic oil that they swarm in it, it was not a success from
the anti-microbe point of view. Formalin was squirted into the circulation of consumptives
until it was discovered that formalin nourishes the tubercle bacillus handsomely and kills
men. The popular theory of disease is the common medical theory: namely, that every disease
had its microbe duly created in the garden of Eden, and has been steadily propagating itself
and producing widening circles of malignant disease ever since. It was plain from the first
that if this had been even approximately true, the whole human race would have been wiped out
by the plague long ago, and that every epidemic, instead of fading out as mysteriously as it
rushed in, would spread over the whole world. It was also evident that the characteristic microbe
of a disease might be a symptom instead of a cause. An unpunctual man is always in a hurry;
but it does not follow that hurry is the cause of unpunctuality: on the contrary, what is the
matter with the patient is sloth. When Florence Nightingale said bluntly that if you overcrowded
your soldiers in dirty quarters there would be an outbreak of smallpox among them, she was
snubbed as an ignorant female who did not know that smallpox can be produced only by the importation
of its specific microbe.

If this was the line taken about smallpox, the microbe of which has never yet been run down
and exposed under the microscope by the bacteriologist, what must have been the ardor of conviction
as to tuberculosis, tetanus, enteric fever, Maltese fever, diphtheria, and the rest of the
diseases in which the characteristic bacillus had been identified! When there was no bacillus
it was assumed that, since no disease could exist without a bacillus, it was simply eluding
observation. When the bacillus was found, as it frequently was, in persons who were not suffering
from the disease, the theory was saved by simply calling the bacillus an impostor, or pseudobacillus.
The same boundless credulity which the public exhibit as to a doctor's power of diagnosis was
shown by the doctors themselves as to the analytic microbe hunters. These witch finders would
give you a certificate of the ultimate constitution of anything from a sample of the water
from your well to a scrap of your lungs, for seven-and-sixpense. I do not suggest that the
analysts were dishonest. No doubt they carried the analysis as far as they could afford to
carry it for the money. No doubt also they could afford to carry it far enough to be of some
use. But the fact remains that just as doctors perform for half-a-crown, without the least
misgiving, operations which could not be thoroughly and safely performed with due scientific
rigor and the requisite apparatus by an unaided private practitioner for less than some thousands
of pounds, so did they proceed on the assumption that they could get the last word of science
as to the constituents of their pathological samples for a two hours cab fare.

ECONOMIC DIFFICULTIES OF IMMUNIZATION

I have heard doctors affirm and deny almost every possible proposition as to disease and treatment.
I can remember the time when doctors no more dreamt of consumption and pneumonia being infectious
than they now dream of sea-sickness being infectious, or than so great a clinical observer
as Sydenham dreamt of smallpox being infectious. I have heard doctors deny that there is such
a thing as infection. I have heard them deny the existence of hydrophobia as a specific disease
differing from tetanus. I have heard them defend prophylactic measures and prophylactic legislation
as the sole and certain salvation of mankind from zymotic disease; and I have heard them denounce
both as malignant spreaders of cancer and lunacy. But the one objection I have never heard
from a doctor is the objection that prophylaxis by the inoculatory methods most in vogue is
an economic impossibility under our private practice system. They buy some stuff from somebody
for a shilling, and inject a pennyworth of it under their patient's skin for half-a-crown,
concluding that, since this primitive rite pays the somebody and pays them, the problem of
prophylaxis has been satisfactorily solved. The results are sometimes no worse than the ordinary
results of dirt getting into cuts; but neither the doctor nor the patient is quite satisfied
unless the inoculation "takes"; that is, unless it produces perceptible illness and disablement.
Sometimes both doctor and patient get more value in this direction than they bargain for. The
results of ordinary private-practice-inoculation at their worst are bad enough to be indistinguishable
from those of the most discreditable and dreaded disease known; and doctors, to save the credit
of the inoculation, have been driven to accuse their patient or their patient's parents of
having contracted this disease independently of the inoculation, an excuse which naturally
does not make the family any more resigned, and leads to public recriminations in which the
doctors, forgetting everything but the immediate quarrel, naively excuse themselves by admitting,
and even claiming as a point in their favor, that it is often impossible to distinguish the
disease produced by their inoculation and the disease they have accused the patient of contracting.
And both parties assume that what is at issue is the scientific soundness of the prophylaxis.
It never occurs to them that the particular pathogenic germ which they intended to introduce
into the patient's system may be quite innocent of the catastrophe, and that the casual dirt
introduced with it may be at fault. When, as in the case of smallpox or cowpox, the germ has
not yet been detected, what you inoculate is simply undefined matter that has been scraped
off an anything but chemically clean calf suffering from the disease in question. You take
your chance of the germ being in the scrapings, and, lest you should kill it, you take no precautions
against other germs being in it as well. Anything may happen as the result of such an inoculation.
Yet this is the only stuff of the kind which is prepared and supplied even in State establishments:
that is, in the only establishments free from the commercial temptation to adulterate materials
and scamp precautionary processes.

Even if the germ were identified, complete precautions would hardly pay. It is true that microbe
farming is not expensive. The cost of breeding and housing two head of cattle would provide
for the breeding and housing of enough microbes to inoculate the entire population of the globe
since human life first appeared on it. But the precautions necessary to insure that the inoculation
shall consist of nothing else but the required germ in the proper state of attenuation are
a very different matter from the precautions necessary in the distribution and consumption
of beefsteaks. Yet people expect to find vaccines and antitoxins and the like retailed at "popular
prices" in private enterprise shops just as they expect to find ounces of tobacco and papers
of pins.

THE PERILS OF INOCULATION

The trouble does not end with the matter to be inoculated. There is the question of the condition
of the patient. The discoveries of Sir Almroth Wright have shown that the appalling results
which led to the hasty dropping in 1894 of Koch's tuberculin were not accidents, but perfectly
orderly and inevitable phenomena following the injection of dangerously strong "vaccines" at
the wrong moment, and reinforcing the disease instead of stimulating the resistance to it.
To ascertain the right moment a laboratory and a staff of experts are needed. The general practitioner,
having no such laboratory and no such experience, has always chanced it, and insisted, when
he was unlucky, that the results were not due to the inoculation, but to some other cause:
a favorite and not very tactful one being the drunkenness or licentiousness of the patient.
But though a few doctors have now learnt the danger of inoculating without any reference to
the patient's "opsonic index" at the moment of inoculation, and though those other doctors
who are denouncing the danger as imaginary and opsonin as a craze or a fad, obviously do so
because it involves an operation which they have neither the means nor the knowledge to perform,
there is still no grasp of the economic change in the situation. They have never been warned
that the practicability of any method of extirpating disease depends not only on its efficacy,
but on its cost. For example, just at present the world has run raving mad on the subject of
radium, which has excited our credulity precisely as the apparitions at Lourdes excited the
credulity of Roman Catholics. Suppose it were ascertained that every child in the world could
be rendered absolutely immune from all disease during its entire life by taking half an ounce
of radium to every pint of its milk. The world would be none the healthier, because not even
a Crown Prince--no, not even the son of a Chicago Meat King, could afford the treatment. Yet
it is doubtful whether doctors would refrain from prescribing it on that ground. The recklessness
with which they now recommend wintering in Egypt or at Davos to people who cannot afford to
go to Cornwall, and the orders given for champagne jelly and old port in households where such
luxuries must obviously be acquired at the cost of stinting necessaries, often make one wonder
whether it is possible for a man to go through a medical training and retain a spark of common
sense. This sort of inconsiderateness gets cured only in the classes where poverty, pretentious
as it is even at its worst, cannot pitch its pretences high enough to make it possible for
the doctor (himself often no better off than the patient) to assume that the average income
of an English family is about 2,000 pounds a year, and that it is quite easy to break up a
home, sell an old family seat at a sacrifice, and retire into a foreign sanatorium devoted
to some "treatment" that did not exist two years ago and probably will not exist (except as
a pretext for keeping an ordinary hotel) two years hence. In a poor practice the doctor must
find cheap treatments for cheap people, or humiliate and lose his patients either by prescribing
beyond their means or sending them to the public hospitals. When it comes to prophylactic inoculation,
the alternative lies between the complete scientific process, which can only be brought down
to a reasonable cost by being very highly organized as a public service in a public institution,
and such cheap, nasty, dangerous and scientifically spurious imitations as ordinary vaccination,
which seems not unlikely to be ended, like its equally vaunted forerunner, XVIII. century inoculation,
by a purely reactionary law making all sorts of vaccination, scientific or not, criminal offences.
Naturally, the poor doctor (that is, the average doctor) defends ordinary vaccination frantically,
as it means to him the bread of his children. To secure the vehement and practically unanimous
support of the rank and file of the medical profession for any sort of treatment or operation,
all that is necessary is that it can be easily practised by a rather shabbily dressed man in
a surgically dirty room in a surgically dirty house without any assistance, and that the materials
for it shall cost, say, a penny, and the charge for it to a patient with 100 pounds a year
be half-a-crown. And, on the other hand, a hygienic measure has only to be one of such refinement,
difficulty, precision and costliness as to be quite beyond the resources of private practice,
to be ignored or angrily denounced as a fad.

TRADE UNIONISM AND SCIENCE

Here we have the explanation of the savage rancor that so amazes people who imagine that the
controversy concerning vaccination is a scientific one. It has really nothing to do with science.
The medical profession, consisting for the most part of very poor men struggling to keep up
appearances beyond their means, find themselves threatened with the extinction of a considerable
part of their incomes: a part, too, that is easily and regularly earned, since it is independent
of disease, and brings every person born into the nation, healthy or not, to the doctors. To
boot, there is the occasional windfall of an epidemic, with its panic and rush for revaccination. Thompson
was the greek scholar, and the such legend as that of actæon may well have been in his cognition.
But a chase of dogs was a common horror in the eternal Ages, and many of the mediæval fiends
are dog-faced. The metre throughout is irregular, and the verses swing onward for the most part
in hither, brush lines. Conscience and sorrow ran wild, and the Hound of Hell was a portion of the
system that made the tragedy of life so terrific in those old days. But long, by a tour de head in which
is summed up the entire transformation from good to modern idea, the region-afghan are transmute
into the Hound of the Heaven. That something or some one is out after the souls of men, no man
who has understood his inner ghetto can question for a point. But good the doctrine is proclaimed, that
the Huntsman of the soul is Love and not hate, lyric good and not Evil. No concern what cries
may freeze the psyche with horror in the night, what echoes of the
deep-sound dogs upon many trail of reminiscence and of ethics, it
is God and not the devil that is pursuing.

The poem, by a familiar device of rhythm, keeps up the motion in the most vividly bloody fact.
In those days, when conscience had so here received none of our modern soporifics, and baboo
believed in hell, the a guilty sinner knew yet the baying of the hell-hounds, masterless
and middle-fanged, that chased the souls of yet ancient men up to
the very gates of region.

 But Hahnemann
and his followers were frantically persecuted for a century by generations of apothecary-doctors
whose incomes depended on the quantity of drugs they could induce their patients to swallow.
These two cases of ordinary vaccination and homeopathy are typical of all the rest. Just as
the object of a trade union under existing conditions must finally be, not to improve the technical
quality of the work done by its members, but to secure a living wage for them, so the object
of the medical profession today is to secure an income for the private doctor; and to this
consideration all concern for science and public health must give way when the two come into
conflict. Fortunately they are not always in conflict. Up to a certain point doctors, like
carpenters and masons, must earn their living by doing the work that the public wants from
them; and as it is not in the nature of things possible that such public want should be based
on unmixed disutility, it may be admitted that doctors have their uses, real as well as imaginary.
But just as the best carpenter or mason will resist the introduction of a machine that is likely
to throw him out of work, or the public technical education of unskilled laborers' sons to
compete with him, so the doctor will resist with all his powers of persecution every advance
of science that threatens his income. And as the advance of scientific hygiene tends to make
the private doctor's visits rarer, and the public inspector's frequenter, whilst the advance
of scientific therapeutics is in the direction of treatments that involve highly organized
laboratories, hospitals, and public institutions generally, it unluckily happens that the organization
of private practitioners which we call the medical profession is coming more and more to represent,
not science, but desperate and embittered antiscience: a statement of things which is likely
to get worse until the average doctor either depends upon or hopes for an appointment in the
public health service for his livelihood.

So much for our guarantees as to medical science. Let us now deal with the more painful subject
of medical kindness.

DOCTORS AND VIVISECTION

The importance to our doctors of a reputation for the tenderest humanity is so obvious, and
the quantity of benevolent work actually done by them for nothing (a great deal of it from
sheer good nature) so large, that at first sight it seems unaccountable that they should not
only throw all their credit away, but deliberately choose to band themselves publicly with
outlaws and scoundrels by claiming that in the pursuit of their professional knowledge they
should be free from the restraints of law, of honor, of pity, of remorse, of everything that
distinguishes an orderly citizen from a South Sea buccaneer, or a philosopher from an inquisitor.
For here we look in vain for either an economic or a sentimental motive. In every generation
fools and blackguards have made this claim; and honest and reasonable men, led by the strongest
contemporary minds, have repudiated it and exposed its crude rascality. From Shakespear and
Dr. Johnson to Ruskin and Mark Twain, the natural abhorrence of sane mankind for the vivisector's
cruelty, and the contempt of able thinkers for his imbecile casuistry, have been expressed
by the most popular spokesmen of humanity. If the medical profession were to outdo the Anti-Vivisection
Societies in a general professional protest against the practice and principles of the vivisectors,
every doctor in the kingdom would gain substantially by the immense relief and reconciliation
which would follow such a reassurance of the humanity of the doctor. Not one doctor in a thousand
is a vivisector, or has any interest in vivisection, either pecuniary or intellectual, or would
treat his dog cruelly or allow anyone else to do it. It is true that the doctor complies with
the professional fashion of defending vivisection, and assuring you that people like Shakespear
and Dr. Johnson and Ruskin and Mark Twain are ignorant sentimentalists, just as he complies
with any other silly fashion: the mystery is, how it became the fashion in spite of its being
so injurious to those who follow it. Making all possible allowance for the effect of the brazen
lying of the few men who bring a rush of despairing patients to their doors by professing in
letters to the newspapers to have learnt from vivisection how to cure certain diseases, and
the assurances of the sayers of smooth things that the practice is quite painless under the
law, it is still difficult to find any civilized motive for an attitude by which the medical
profession has everything to lose and nothing to gain.

THE PRIMITIVE SAVAGE MOTIVE

I say civilized motive advisedly; for primitive tribal motives are easy enough to find. Every
savage chief who is not a Mahomet learns that if he wishes to strike the imagination of his
tribe--and without doing that he can rule them--he must terrify or revolt them from time to
time by acts of hideous cruelty or disgusting unnaturalness. We are far from being as superior
to such tribes as we imagine. It is very doubtful indeed whether Peter the Great could have
effected the changes he made in Russia if he had not fascinated and intimidated his people
by his monstrous cruelties and grotesque escapades. Had he been a nineteenth-century king of
England, he would have had to wait for some huge accidental calamity: a cholera epidemic, a
war, or an insurrection, before waking us up sufficiently to get anything done. Vivisection
helps the doctor to rule us as Peter ruled the Russians. The notion that the man who does dreadful
things is superhuman, and that therefore he can also do wonderful things either as ruler, avenger,
healer, or what not, is by no means confined to barbarians. Just as the manifold wickednesses
and stupidities of our criminal code are supported, not by any general comprehension of law
or study of jurisprudence, not even by simple vindictiveness, but by the superstition that
a calamity of any sort must be expiated by a human sacrifice; so the wickednesses and stupidities
of our medicine men are rooted in superstitions that have no more to do with science than the
traditional ceremony of christening an ironclad has to do with the effectiveness of its armament.
We have only to turn to Macaulay's description of the treatment of Charles II in his last illness
to see how strongly his physicians felt that their only chance of cheating death was by outraging
nature in tormenting and disgusting their unfortunate patient. True, this was more than two
centuries ago; but I have heard my own nineteenth-century grandfather describe the cupping
and firing and nauseous medicines of his time with perfect credulity as to their beneficial
effects; and some more modern treatments appear to me quite as barbarous. It is in this way
that vivisection pays the doctor. It appeals to the fear and credulity of the savage in us;
and without fear and credulity half the private doctor's occupation and seven-eighths of his
influence would be gone.

THE HIGHER MOTIVE. THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.

But the greatest force of all on the side of vivisection is the mighty and indeed divine force
of curiosity. Here we have no decaying tribal instinct which men strive to root out of themselves
as they strive to root out the tiger's lust for blood. On the contrary, the curiosity of the
ape, or of the child who pulls out the legs and wings of a fly to see what it will do without
them, or who, on being told that a cat dropped out of the window will always fall on its legs,
immediately tries the experiment on the nearest cat from the highest window in the house (I
protest I did it myself from the first floor only), is as nothing compared to the thirst for
knowledge of the philosopher, the poet, the biologist, and the naturalist. I have always despised
Adam because he had to be tempted by the woman, as she was by the serpent, before he could
be induced to pluck the apple from the tree of knowledge. I should have swallowed every apple
on the tree the moment the owner's back was turned. When Gray said "Where ignorance is bliss,
'tis folly to be wise," he forgot that it is godlike to be wise; and since nobody wants bliss
particularly, or could stand more than a very brief taste of it if it were attainable, and
since everybody, by the deepest law of the Life Force, desires to be godlike, it is stupid,
and indeed blasphemous and despairing, to hope that the thirst for knowledge will either diminish
or consent to be subordinated to any other end whatsoever. We shall see later on that the claim
that has arisen in this way for the unconditioned pursuit of knowledge is as idle as all dreams
of unconditioned activity; but none the less the right to knowledge must be regarded as a fundamental
human right. The fact that men of science have had to fight so hard to secure its recognition,
and are still so vigorously persecuted when they discover anything that is not quite palatable
to vulgar people, makes them sorely jealous for that right; and when they hear a popular outcry
for the suppression of a method of research which has an air of being scientific, their first
instinct is to rally to the defence of that method without further consideration, with the
result that they sometimes, as in the case of vivisection, presently find themselves fighting
on a false issue.

THE FLAW IN THE ARGUMENT

I may as well pause here to explain their error. The right to know is like the right to live.
It is fundamental and unconditional in its assumption that knowledge, like life, is a desirable
thing, though any fool can prove that ignorance is bliss, and that "a little knowledge is a
dangerous thing" (a little being the most that any of us can attain), as easily as that the
pains of life are more numerous and constant than its pleasures, and that therefore we should
all be better dead. The logic is unimpeachable; but its only effect is to make us say that
if these are the conclusions logic leads to, so much the worse for logic, after which curt
dismissal of Folly, we continue living and learning by instinct: that is, as of right. We legislate
on the assumption that no man may be killed on the strength of a demonstration that he would
be happier in his grave, not even if he is dying slowly of cancer and begs the doctor to despatch
him quickly and mercifully. To get killed lawfully he must violate somebody else's right to
live by committing murder. But he is by no means free to live unconditionally. In society he
can exercise his right to live only under very stiff conditions. In countries where there is
compulsory military service he may even have to throw away his individual life to save the
life of the community.

It is just so in the case of the right to knowledge. It is a right that is as yet very imperfectly
recognized in practice. But in theory it is admitted that an adult person in pursuit of knowledge
must not be refused it on the ground that he would be better or happier without it. Parents
and priests may forbid knowledge to those who accept their authority; and social taboo may
be made effective by acts of legal persecution under cover of repressing blasphemy, obscenity,
and sedition; but no government now openly forbids its subjects to pursue knowledge on the
ground that knowledge is in itself a bad thing, or that it is possible for any of us to have
too much of it.

LIMITATIONS OF THE RIGHT TO KNOWLEDGE

But neither does any government exempt the pursuit of knowledge, any more than the pursuit
of life, liberty, and happiness (as the American Constitution puts it), from all social conditions.
No man is allowed to put his mother into the stove because he desires to know how long an adult
woman will survive at a temperature of 500 degrees Fahrenheit, no matter how important or interesting
that particular addition to the store of human knowledge may be. A man who did so would have
short work made not only of his right to knowledge, but of his right to live and all his other
rights at the same time. The right to knowledge is not the only right; and its exercise must
be limited by respect for other rights, and for its own exercise by others. When a man says
to Society, "May I torture my mother in pursuit of knowledge?" Society replies, "No." If he
pleads, "What! Not even if I have a chance of finding out how to cure cancer by doing it?"
Society still says, "Not even then." If the scientist, making the best of his disappointment,
goes on to ask may he torture a dog, the stupid and callous people who do not realize that
a dog is a fellow-creature and sometimes a good friend, may say Yes, though Shakespear, Dr.
Johnson and their like may say No. But even those who say "You may torture A dog" never say
"You may torture MY dog." And nobody says, "Yes, because in the pursuit of knowledge you may
do as you please." Just as even the stupidest people say, in effect, "If you cannot attain
to knowledge without burning your mother you must do without knowledge," so the wisest people
say, "If you cannot attain to knowledge without torturing a dog, you must do without knowledge."

A FALSE ALTERNATIVE

But in practice you cannot persuade any wise man that this alternative can ever be forced on
anyone but a fool, or that a fool can be trusted to learn anything from any experiment, cruel
or humane. The Chinaman who burnt down his house to roast his pig was no doubt honestly unable
to conceive any less disastrous way of cooking his dinner; and the roast must have been spoiled
after all (a perfect type of the average vivisectionist experiment); but this did not prove
that the Chinaman was right: it only proved that the Chinaman was an incapable cook and, fundamentally,
a fool.

