Mrs. Eustace Ansell, immediately after dinner, had bent her slender back above the velvet-covered
writing-table, where an inkstand of Vienna ormolu offered its empty cup to her pen. Being habitually
charged with a voluminous correspondence, she had foreseen this contingency and met it by despatching
her maid for her own writing-case, which was now outspread before her in all its complex neatness;
but at Bessy's appeal she wiped her pen, and turned a sympathetic gaze on her companion.

Mrs. Ansell's face drew all its charm from its adaptability. It was a different face to each
speaker: now kindling with irony, now gently maternal, now charged with abstract meditation--and
few paused to reflect that, in each case, it was merely the mirror held up to some one else's
view of life.

"It needs doing over," she admitted, following the widow's melancholy glance about the room.
"But you are a spoilt child to complain. Think of having a house of your own to come to, instead
of having to put up at the Hanaford hotel!"

Mrs. Westmore's attention was arrested by the first part of the reply.

"Doing over? Why in the world should I do it over? No one could expect me to come here now--could
they, Mr. Tredegar?" she exclaimed, transferring her appeal to the fourth member of the party.

Mr. Tredegar, the family lawyer, who had deemed it his duty to accompany the widow on her visit
of inspection, was strolling up and down the room with short pompous steps, a cigar between
his lips, and his arms behind him. He cocked his sparrow-like head, scanned the offending apartment,
and terminated his survey by resting his eyes on Mrs. Westmore's charming petulant face.

"It all depends," he replied axiomatically, "how large an income you require."

Mr. Tredegar uttered this remark with the air of one who pronounces on an important point in
law: his lightest observation seemed a decision handed down from the bench to which he had
never ascended. He restored the cigar to his lips, and sought approval in Mrs. Ansell's expressive
eye.

"Ah, that's it, Bessy. You've that to remember," the older lady murmured, as if struck by the
profundity of the remark.

Mrs. Westmore made an impatient gesture. "We've always had money enough--Dick was perfectly
satisfied." Her voice trembled a little on her husband's name. "And you don't know what the
place is like by daylight--and the people who come to call!"

"Of course you needn't see any one now, dear," Mrs. Ansell reminded her, "except the Halford
Gaineses."

"I am sure they're bad enough. Juliana Gaines will say: 'My dear, is that the way widows' veils
are worn in New York this autumn?' and Halford will insist on our going to one of those awful
family dinners, all Madeira and terrapin."

"It's too early for terrapin," Mrs. Ansell smiled consolingly; but Bessy had reverted to her
argument. "Besides, what difference would my coming here make? I shall never understand anything
about business," she declared.

Mr. Tredegar pondered, and once more removed his cigar. "The necessity has never arisen. But
now that you find yourself in almost sole control of a large property----"

Mr. Langhope laughed gently. "Apply yourself, Bessy. Bring your masterly intellect to bear
on the industrial problem."

Mrs. Ansell restored the innumerable implements to her writing-case, and laid her arm with
a caressing gesture on Mrs. Westmore's shoulder. "Don't tease her. She's tired, and she misses
the baby."

"I shall get a telegram tomorrow morning," exclaimed the young mother, brightening.

"Of course you will. 'Cicely has just eaten two boiled eggs and a bowl of porridge, and is
bearing up wonderfully.'"

She drew Mrs. Westmore persuasively to her feet, but the widow refused to relinquish her hold
on her grievance.

"You all think I'm extravagant and careless about money," she broke out, addressing the room
in general from the shelter of Mrs. Ansell's embrace; "but I know one thing: If I had my way
I should begin to economize by selling this horrible house, instead of leaving it shut up from
one year's end to another."

Her father looked up: proposals of retrenchment always struck him as business-like when they
did not affect his own expenditure. "What do you think of that, eh, Tredegar?"

The eminent lawyer drew in his thin lips. "From the point of view of policy, I think unfavourably
of it," he pronounced.

Bessy's face clouded, and Mrs. Ansell argued gently: "Really, it's too late to look so far
into the future. Remember, my dear, that we are due at the mills tomorrow at ten."

The reminder that she must rise early had the effect of hastening Mrs. Westmore's withdrawal,
and the two ladies, after an exchange of goodnights, left the men to their cigars.

Mr. Langhope was the first to speak.

"Bessy's as hopelessly vague about business as I am, Tredegar. Why the deuce Westmore left
her everything outright--but he was only a heedless boy himself."

"Yes. The way he allowed things to go, it's a wonder there was anything to leave. This Truscomb
must be an able fellow."

"Devoted to Dick's interests, I've always understood."

"He makes the mills pay well, at any rate, and that's not so easy nowadays. But on general
principles it's as well he should see that we mean to look into everything thoroughly. Of course
Halford Gaines will never be more than a good figure-head, but Truscomb must be made to understand
that Mrs. Westmore intends to interest herself personally in the business."

"Oh, by all means--of course--" Mr. Langhope assented, his light smile stiffening into a yawn
at the mere suggestion.

He rose with an effort, supporting himself on his stick. "I think I'll turn in myself. There's
not a readable book in that God-forsaken library, and I believe Maria Ansell has gone off with
my volume of Loti."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning, when Amherst presented himself at the Westmore door, he had decided to follow
his chief's instructions to the letter, and ask for Mr. Langhope only. The decision had cost
him a struggle, for his heart was big with its purpose; but though he knew that he must soon
place himself in open opposition to Truscomb, he recognized the prudence of deferring the declaration
of war as long as possible.

On his round of the mills, that morning, he had paused in the room where Mrs. Dillon knelt
beside her mop and pail, and had found her, to his surprise, comparatively reassured and cheerful.
Dr. Disbrow, she told him, had been in the previous evening, and had told her to take heart
about Jim, and left her enough money to get along for a week--and a wonderful new cough-mixture
that he'd put up for her special. Amherst found it difficult to listen calmly, with the nurse's
words still in his ears, and the sight before him of Mrs. Dillon's lean shoulder-blades travelling
painfully up and down with the sweep of the mop.

"I don't suppose that cost Truscomb ten dollars," he said to himself, as the lift lowered him
to the factory door; but another voice argued that he had no right to accuse Disbrow of acting
as his brother-in-law's agent, when the gift to Mrs. Dillon might have been prompted by his
own kindness of heart.

"And what prompted the lie about her husband? Well, perhaps he's an incurable optimist," he
summed up, springing into the Hanaford car.

By the time he reached Mrs. Westmore's door his wrath had subsided, and he felt that he had
himself well in hand. He had taken unusual pains with his appearance that morning--or rather
his mother, learning of the errand on which Truscomb had sent him, had laid out his carefully-brushed
Sunday clothes, and adjusted his tie with skilful fingers. "You'd really be handsome, Johnny,
if you were only a little vainer," she said, pushing him away to survey the result; and when
he stared at her, repeating: "I never heard that vanity made a man better-looking," she responded
gaily: "Oh, up to a certain point, because it teaches him how to use what he's got. So remember,"
she charged him, as he smiled and took up his hat, "that you're going to see a pretty young
woman, and that you're not a hundred years old yourself."

"I'll try to," he answered, humouring her, "but as I've been forbidden to ask for her, I am
afraid your efforts will be wasted."

The servant to whom he gave his message showed him into the library, with a request that he
should wait; and there, to his surprise, he found, not the white-moustached gentleman whom
he had guessed the night before to be Mr. Langhope, but a young lady in deep black, who turned
on him a look of not unfriendly enquiry.

It was not Bessy's habit to anticipate the clock; but her distaste for her surroundings, and
the impatience to have done with the tedious duties awaiting her, had sent her downstairs before
the rest of the party. Her life had been so free from tiresome obligations that she had but
a small stock of patience to meet them with; and already, after a night at Hanaford, she was
pining to get back to the comforts of her own country-house, the soft rut of her daily habits,
the funny chatter of her little girl, the long stride of her Irish hunter across the Hempstead
plains--to everything, in short, that made it conceivably worth while to get up in the morning.

The servant who ushered in Amherst, thinking the room empty, had not mentioned his name; and
for a moment he and his hostess examined each other in silence, Bessy puzzled at the unannounced
appearance of a good-looking young man who might have been some one she had met and forgotten,
while Amherst felt his self-possession slipping away into the depths of a pair of eyes so dark-lashed
and deeply blue that his only thought was one of wonder at his previous indifference to women's
eyes.

"Mrs. Westmore?" he asked, restored to self-command by the perception that his longed-for opportunity
was at hand; and Bessy, his voice confirming the inference she had drawn from his appearance,
replied with a smile: "I am Mrs. Westmore. But if you have come to see me, I ought to tell
you that in a moment I shall be obliged to go out to our mills. I have a business appointment
with our manager, but if----"

She broke off, gracefully waiting for him to insert his explanation.

"I have come from the manager; I am John Amherst--your assistant manager," he added, as the
mention of his name apparently conveyed no enlightenment.

Mrs. Westmore's face changed, and she let slip a murmur of surprise that would certainly have
flattered Amherst's mother if she could have heard it; but it had an opposite effect on the
young man, who inwardly accused himself of having tried to disguise his trade by not putting
on his everyday clothes.

"How stupid of me! I took you for--I had no idea; I didn't expect Mr. Truscomb here," his employer
faltered in embarrassment; then their eyes met and both smiled.

"Mr. Truscomb sent me to tell you that he is ill, and will not be able to show you the mills
today. I didn't mean to ask for you--I was told to give the message to Mr. Langhope," Amherst
scrupulously explained, trying to repress the sudden note of joy in his voice.

He was subject to the unobservant man's acute flashes of vision, and Mrs. Westmore's beauty
was like a blinding light abruptly turned on eyes subdued to obscurity. As he spoke, his glance
passed from her face to her hair, and remained caught in its meshes. He had never seen such
hair--it did not seem to grow in the usual orderly way, but bubbled up all over her head in
independent clusters of brightness, breaking, about the brow, the temples, the nape, into little
irrelevant waves and eddies of light, with dusky hollows of softness where the hand might plunge.
It takes but the throb of a nerve to carry such a complex impression from the eye to the mind,
but the object of the throb had perhaps felt the electric flash of its passage, for her colour
rose while Amherst spoke.

"Ah, here is my father now," she said with a vague accent of relief, as Mr. Langhope's stick
was heard tapping its way across the hall.

When he entered, accompanied by Mrs. Ansell, his sharp glance of surprise at her visitor told
her that he was as much misled as herself, and gave her a sense of being agreeably justified
in her blunder. "If father thinks you're a gentleman----" her shining eyes seemed to say, as
she explained: "This is Mr. Amherst, father: Mr. Truscomb has sent him."

"Mr. Amherst?" Langhope, with extended hand, echoed affably but vaguely; and it became clear
that neither Mrs. Westmore nor her father had ever before heard the name of their assistant
manager.

The discovery stung Amherst to a somewhat unreasoning resentment; and while he was trying to
subordinate this sentiment to the larger feelings with which he had entered the house, Mrs.
Ansell, turning her eyes on him, said gently: "Your name is unusual. I had a friend named Lucy
Warne who married a very clever man--a mechanical genius----"

Amherst's face cleared. "My father was a genius; and my mother is Lucy Warne," he said, won
by the soft look and the persuasive voice.

"What a delightful coincidence! We were girls together at Albany. You must remember Judge Warne?"
she said, turning to Mr. Langhope, who, twirling his white moustache, murmured, a shade less
cordially: "Of course--of course--delightful--most interesting."

Amherst did not notice the difference. His perceptions were already enveloped in the caress
that emanated from Mrs. Ansell's voice and smile; and he only asked himself vaguely if it were
possible that this graceful woman, with her sunny autumnal air, could really be his mother's
contemporary. But the question brought an instant reaction of bitterness.

"Poverty is the only thing that makes people old nowadays," he reflected, painfully conscious
of his own share in the hardships his mother had endured; and when Mrs. Ansell went on: "I
must go and see her--you must let me take her by surprise," he said stiffly: "We live out at
the mills, a long way from here."

"Oh, we're going there this morning," she rejoined, unrebuffed by what she probably took for
a mere social awkwardness, while Mrs. Westmore interposed: "But, Maria, Mr. Truscomb is ill,
and has sent Mr. Amherst to say that we are not to come."

"Yes: so Gaines has just telephoned. It's most unfortunate," Mr. Langhope grumbled. He too
was already beginning to chafe at the uncongenial exile of Hanaford, and he shared his daughter's
desire to despatch the tiresome business before them.

Mr. Tredegar had meanwhile appeared, and when Amherst had been named to him, and had received
his Olympian nod, Bessy anxiously imparted her difficulty.

"But how ill is Mr. Truscomb? Do you think he can take us over the mills tomorrow?" she appealed
to Amherst.

"I'm afraid not; I am sure he can't. He has a touch of bronchitis."

This announcement was met by a general outcry, in which sympathy for the manager was not the
predominating note. Mrs. Ansell saved the situation by breathing feelingly: "Poor man!" and
after a decent echo of the phrase, and a doubtful glance at her father, Mrs. Westmore said:
"If it's bronchitis he may be ill for days, and what in the world are we to do?"

"Pack up and come back later," suggested Mr. Langhope briskly; but while Bessy sighed "Oh,
that dreadful journey!" Mr. Tredegar interposed with authority: "One moment, Langhope, please.
Mr. Amherst, is Mrs. Westmore expected at the mills?"

"Yes, I believe they know she is coming."

"Then I think, my dear, that to go back to New York without showing yourself would, under the
circumstances, be--er--an error in judgment."

"Good Lord, Tredegar, you don't expect to keep us kicking our heels here for days?" her father
ejaculated.

"I can certainly not afford to employ mine in that manner for even a fraction of a day," rejoined
the lawyer, always acutely resentful of the suggestion that he had a disengaged moment; "but
meanwhile----"

"Father," Bessy interposed, with an eagerly flushing cheek, "don't you see that the only thing
for us to do is to go over the mills now--at once--with Mr. Amherst?"

Mr. Langhope stared: he was always adventurously ready to unmake plans, but it flustered him
to be called on to remake them. "Eh--what? Now--at once? But Gaines was to have gone with us,
and how on earth are we to get at him? He telephoned me that, as the visit was given up, he
should ride out to his farm."

"Oh, never mind--or, at least, all the better!" his daughter urged. "We can see the mills just
as well without him; and we shall get on so much more quickly."

"Well--well--what do you say, Tredegar?" murmured Mr. Langhope, allured by her last argument;
and Bessy, clasping her hands, summed up enthusiastically: "And I shall understand so much
better without a lot of people trying to explain to me at once!"

Her sudden enthusiasm surprised no one, for even Mrs. Ansell, expert as she was in the interpreting
of tones, set it down to the natural desire to have done as quickly as might be with Hanaford.

"Mrs. Westmore has left her little girl at home," she said to Amherst, with a smile intended
to counteract the possible ill-effect of the impression.

But Amherst suspected no slight in his employer's eagerness to visit Westmore. His overmastering
thought was one of joy as the fulness of his opportunity broke on him. To show her the mills
himself--to bring her face to face with her people, unhampered by Truscomb's jealous vigilance,
and Truscomb's false explanations; to see the angel of pity stir the depths of those unfathomable
eyes, when they rested, perhaps for the first time, on suffering that it was in their power
to smile away as easily as they had smiled away his own distrust--all this the wonderful moment
had brought him, and thoughts and arguments thronged so hot on his lips that he kept silence,
fearing lest he should say too much.

IV

JOHN AMHERST was no one-sided idealist. He felt keenly the growing complexity of the relation
between employer and worker, the seeming hopelessness of permanently harmonizing their claims,
the recurring necessity of fresh compromises and adjustments. He hated rant, demagogy, the
rash formulating of emotional theories; and his contempt for bad logic and subjective judgments
led him to regard with distrust the panaceas offered for the cure of economic evils. But his
heart ached for the bitter throes with which the human machine moves on. He felt the menace
of industrial conditions when viewed collectively, their poignancy when studied in the individual
lives of the toilers among whom his lot was cast; and clearly as he saw the need of a philosophic
survey of the question, he was sure that only through sympathy with its personal, human side
could a solution be reached. The disappearance of the old familiar contact between master and
man seemed to him one of the great wrongs of the new industrial situation. That the breach
must be farther widened by the ultimate substitution of the stock-company for the individual
employer--a fact obvious to any student of economic tendencies--presented to Amherst's mind
one of the most painful problems in the scheme of social readjustment. But it was characteristic
of him to dwell rather on the removal of immediate difficulties than in the contemplation of
those to come, and while the individual employer was still to be reckoned with, the main thing
was to bring him closer to his workers. Till he entered personally into their hardships and
aspirations--till he learned what they wanted and why they wanted it--Amherst believed that
no mere law-making, however enlightened, could create a wholesome relation between the two.

This feeling was uppermost as he sat with Mrs. Westmore in the carriage which was carrying
them to the mills. He had meant to take the trolley back to Westmore, but at a murmured word
from Mr. Tredegar Bessy had offered him a seat at her side, leaving others to follow. This
culmination of his hopes--the unlooked-for chance of a half-hour alone with her--left Amherst
oppressed with the swiftness of the minutes. He had so much to say--so much to prepare her
for--yet how begin, while he was in utter ignorance of her character and her point of view,
and while her lovely nearness left him so little chance of perceiving anything except itself?

But he was not often the victim of his sensations, and presently there emerged, out of the
very consciousness of her grace and her completeness, a clearer sense of the conditions which,
in a measure, had gone to produce them. Her dress could not have hung in such subtle folds,
her white chin have nestled in such rich depths of fur, the pearls in her ears have given back
the light from such pure curves, if thin shoulders in shapeless gingham had not bent, day in,
day out, above the bobbins and carders, and weary ears throbbed even at night with the tumult
of the looms. Amherst, however, felt no sensational resentment at the contrast. He had lived
too much with ugliness and want not to believe in human nature's abiding need of their opposite.
He was glad there was room for such beauty in the world, and sure that its purpose was an ameliorating
one, if only it could be used as a beautiful spirit would use it.

The carriage had turned into one of the nondescript thoroughfares, half incipient street, half
decaying lane, which dismally linked the mill-village to Hanaford. Bessy looked out on the
ruts, the hoardings, the starved trees dangling their palsied leaves in the radiant October
light; then she sighed: "What a good day for a gallop!"

Amherst felt a momentary chill, but the naturalness of the exclamation disarmed him, and the
words called up thrilling memories of his own college days, when he had ridden his grandfather's
horses in the famous hunting valley not a hundred miles from Hanaford.

Bessy met his smile with a glow of understanding. "You like riding too, I'm sure?"

"I used to; but I haven't been in the saddle for years. Factory managers don't keep hunters,"
he said laughing.

Her murmur of embarrassment showed that she took this as an apologetic allusion to his reduced
condition, and in his haste to correct this impression he added: "If I regretted anything in
my other life, it would certainly be a gallop on a day like this; but I chose my trade deliberately,
and I've never been sorry for my choice."

He had hardly spoken when he felt the inappropriateness of this avowal; but her prompt response
showed him, a moment later, that it was, after all, the straightest way to his end.

"You find the work interesting? I'm sure it must be. You'll think me very ignorant--my husband
and I came here so seldom...I feel as if I ought to know so much more about it," she explained.

At last the note for which he waited had been struck. "Won't you try to--now you're here? There's
so much worth knowing," he broke out impetuously.

Mrs. Westmore coloured, but rather with surprise than displeasure. "I'm very stupid--I've no
head for business--but I will try to," she said.

"It's not business that I mean; it's the personal relation--just the thing the business point
of view leaves out. Financially, I don't suppose your mills could be better run; but there
are over seven hundred women working in them, and there's so much to be done, just for them
and their children."

He caught a faint hint of withdrawal in her tone. "I have always understood that Mr. Truscomb
did everything----"

Amherst flushed; but he was beyond caring for the personal rebuff. "Do you leave it to your
little girl's nurses to do everything for her?" he asked.

Her surprise seemed about to verge on annoyance: he saw the preliminary ruffling of the woman
who is put to the trouble of defending her dignity. "Really, I don't see--" she began with
distant politeness; then her face changed and melted, and again her blood spoke for her before
her lips.

"I am glad you told me that, Mr. Amherst. Of course I want to do whatever I can. I should like
you to point out everything----"

Amherst's resolve had been taken while she spoke. He would point out everything, would stretch
his opportunity to its limit. All thoughts of personal prudence were flung to the winds--her
blush and tone had routed the waiting policy. He would declare war on Truscomb at once, and
take the chance of dismissal. At least, before he went he would have brought this exquisite
creature face to face with the wrongs from which her luxuries were drawn, and set in motion
the regenerating impulses of indignation and pity. He did not stop to weigh the permanent advantage
of this course. His only feeling was that the chance would never again be given him--that if
he let her go away, back to her usual life, with eyes unopened and heart untouched, there would
be no hope of her ever returning. It was far better that he should leave for good, and that
she should come back, as come back she must, more and more often, if once she could be made
to feel the crying need of her presence.

But where was he to begin? How give her even a glimpse of the packed and intricate situation?

"Mrs. Westmore," he said, "there's no time to say much now, but before we get to the mills
I want to ask you a favour. If, as you go through them, you see anything that seems to need
explaining, will you let me come and tell you about it tonight? I say tonight," he added, meeting
her look of enquiry, "because later--tomorrow even--I might not have the chance. There are
some things--a good many--in the management of the mills that Mr. Truscomb doesn't see as I
do. I don't mean business questions: wages and dividends and so on--those are out of my province.
I speak merely in the line of my own work--my care of the hands, and what I believe they need
and don't get under the present system. Naturally, if Mr. Truscomb were well, I shouldn't have
had this chance of putting the case to you; but since it's come my way, I must seize it and
take the consequences."

Even as he spoke, by a swift reaction of thought, those consequences rose before him in all
their seriousness. It was not only, or chiefly, that he feared to lose his place; though he
knew his mother had not spoken lightly in instancing the case of the foreman whom Truscomb,
to gratify a personal spite, had for months kept out of a job in his trade. And there were
special reasons why Amherst should heed her warning. In adopting a manual trade, instead of
one of the gentlemanly professions which the men of her family had always followed, he had
not only disappointed her hopes, and to a great extent thrown away the benefits of the education
she had pinched herself to give him, but had disturbed all the habits of her life by removing
her from her normal surroundings to the depressing exile of a factory-settlement. However much
he blamed himself for exacting this sacrifice, it had been made so cheerfully that the consciousness
of it never clouded his life with his mother; but her self-effacement made him the more alive
to his own obligations, and having placed her in a difficult situation he had always been careful
not to increase its difficulties by any imprudence in his conduct toward his employers. Yet,
grave as these considerations were, they were really less potent than his personal desire to
remain at Westmore. Lightly as he had just resolved to risk the chance of dismissal, all his
future was bound up in the hope of retaining his place. His heart was in the work at Westmore,
and the fear of not being able to get other employment was a small factor in his intense desire
to keep his post. What he really wanted was to speak out, and yet escape the consequences:
by some miraculous reversal of probability to retain his position and yet effect Truscomb's
removal. The idea was so fantastic that he felt it merely as a quickening of all his activities,
a tremendous pressure of will along undetermined lines. He had no wish to take the manager's
place; but his dream was to see Truscomb superseded by a man of the new school, in sympathy
with the awakening social movement--a man sufficiently practical to "run" the mills successfully,
yet imaginative enough to regard that task as the least of his duties. He saw the promise of
such a man in Louis Duplain, the overseer who boarded with Mrs. Amherst: a young fellow of
Alsatian extraction, a mill-hand from childhood, who had worked at his trade in Europe as well
as in America, and who united with more manual skill, and a greater nearness to the workman's
standpoint, all Amherst's enthusiasm for the experiments in social betterment that were making
in some of the English and continental factories. His strongest wish was to see such a man
as Duplain in control at Westmore before he himself turned to the larger work which he had
begun to see before him as the sequel to his factory-training.

All these thoughts swept through him in the instant's pause before Mrs. Westmore, responding
to his last appeal, said with a graceful eagerness: "Yes, you must come tonight. I want to
hear all you can tell me--and if there is anything wrong you must show me how I can make it
better."

"I'll show her, and Truscomb shan't turn me out for it," was the vow he passionately registered
as the carriage drew up at the office-door of the main building.

How this impossible result was to be achieved he had no farther time to consider, for in another
moment the rest of the party had entered the factory with them, and speech was followed up
in the roar of the machinery.

Amherst's zeal for his cause was always quickened by the sight of the mills in action. He loved
the work itself as much as he hated the conditions under which it was done; and he longed to
see on the operatives' faces something of the ardour that lit up his own when he entered the
work-rooms. It was this passion for machinery that at school had turned him from his books,
at college had drawn him to the courses least in the line of his destined profession; and it
always seized on him afresh when he was face to face with the monstrous energies of the mills.
It was not only the sense of power that thrilled him--he felt a beauty in the ordered activity
of the whole intricate organism, in the rhythm of dancing bobbins and revolving cards, the
swift continuous outpour of doublers and ribbon-laps, the steady ripple of the long ply-frames,
the terrible gnashing play of the looms--all these varying subordinate motions, gathered up
into the throb of the great engines which fed the giant's arteries, and were in turn ruled
by the invisible action of quick thought and obedient hands, always produced in Amherst a responsive
rush of life.

He knew this sensation was too specialized to affect his companions; but he expected Mrs. Westmore
to be all the more alive to the other side--the dark side of monotonous human toil, of the
banquet of flesh and blood and brain perpetually served up to the monster whose insatiable
jaws the looms so grimly typified. Truscomb, as he had told her, was a good manager from the
profit-taking standpoint. Since it was profitable to keep the machinery in order, he maintained
throughout the factory a high standard of mechanical supervision, except where one or two favoured
overseers--for Truscomb was given to favoritism--shirked the duties of their departments. But
it was of the essence of Truscomb's policy--and not the least of the qualities which made him
a "paying" manager--that he saved money scrupulously where its outlay would not have resulted
in larger earnings. To keep the floors scrubbed, the cotton-dust swept up, the rooms freshly
whitewashed and well-ventilated, far from adding the smallest fraction to the quarterly dividends,
would have deducted from them the slight cost of this additional labour; and Truscomb therefore
economized on scrubbers, sweepers and window-washers, and on all expenses connected with improved
ventilation and other hygienic precautions. Though the whole factory was over-crowded, the
newest buildings were more carefully planned, and had the usual sanitary improvements; but
the old mills had been left in their original state, and even those most recently built were
fast lapsing into squalor. It was no wonder, therefore, that workers imprisoned within such
walls should reflect their long hours of deadening toil in dull eyes and anæmic skins, and
in the dreary lassitude with which they bent to their tasks.

Surely, Amherst argued, Mrs. Westmore must feel this; must feel it all the more keenly, coming
from an atmosphere so different, from a life where, as he instinctively divined, all was in
harmony with her own graceful person. But a deep disappointment awaited him. He was still under
the spell of their last moments in the carriage, when her face and voice had promised so much,
when she had seemed so deeply, if vaguely, stirred by his appeal. But as they passed from one
resounding room to the other--from the dull throb of the carding-room, the groan of the ply-frames,
the long steady pound of the slashers, back to the angry shriek of the fierce unappeasable
looms--the light faded from her eyes and she looked merely bewildered and stunned.

Amherst, hardened to the din of the factory, could not measure its effect on nerves accustomed
to the subdued sounds and spacious stillnesses which are the last refinement of luxury. Habit
had made him unconscious of that malicious multiplication and subdivision of noise that kept
every point of consciousness vibrating to a different note, so that while one set of nerves
was torn as with pincers by the dominant scream of the looms, others were thrilled with a separate
pain by the ceaseless accompaniment of drumming, hissing, grating and crashing that shook the
great building. Amherst felt this tumult only as part of the atmosphere of the mills; and to
ears trained like his own he could make his voice heard without difficulty. But his attempts
at speech were unintelligible to Mrs. Westmore and her companions, and after vainly trying
to communicate with him by signs they hurried on as if to escape as quickly as possible from
the pursuing whirlwind.

Amherst could not allow for the depressing effect of this enforced silence. He did not see
that if Bessy could have questioned him the currents of sympathy might have remained open between
them, whereas, compelled to walk in silence through interminable ranks of meaningless machines,
to which the human workers seemed mere automatic appendages, she lost all perception of what
the scene meant. He had forgotten, too, that the swift apprehension of suffering in others
is as much the result of training as the immediate perception of beauty. Both perceptions may
be inborn, but if they are not they can be developed only through the discipline of experience.

"That girl in the hospital would have seen it all," he reflected, as the vision of Miss Brent's
small incisive profile rose before him; but the next moment he caught the light on Mrs. Westmore's
hair, as she bent above a card, and the paler image faded like a late moon in the sunrise.

Meanwhile Mrs. Ansell, seeing that the detailed inspection of the buildings was as trying to
Mr. Langhope's lameness as to his daughter's nerves, had proposed to turn back with him and
drive to Mrs. Amherst's, where he might leave her to call while the others were completing
their rounds. It was one of Mrs. Ansell's gifts to detect the first symptoms of ennui in her
companions, and produce a remedy as patly as old ladies whisk out a scent-bottle or a cough-lozenge;
and Mr. Langhope's look of relief showed the timeliness of her suggestion.

Amherst was too preoccupied to wonder how his mother would take this visit; but he welcomed
Mr. Langhope's departure, hoping that the withdrawal of his ironic smile would leave his daughter
open to gentler influences. Mr. Tredegar, meanwhile, was projecting his dry glance over the
scene, trying to converse by signs with the overseers of the different rooms, and pausing now
and then to contemplate, not so much the workers themselves as the special tasks which engaged
them.

How these spectators of the party's progress were affected by Mrs. Westmore's appearance, even
Amherst, for all his sympathy with their views, could not detect. They knew that she was the
new owner, that a disproportionate amount of the result of their toil would in future pass
through her hands, spread carpets for her steps, and hang a setting of beauty about her eyes;
but the knowledge seemed to produce no special interest in her personality. A change of employer
was not likely to make any change in their lot: their welfare would probably continue to depend
on Truscomb's favour. The men hardly raised their heads as Mrs. Westmore passed; the women
stared, but with curiosity rather than interest; and Amherst could not tell whether their sullenness
reacted on Mrs. Westmore, or whether they were unconsciously chilled by her indifference. The
result was the same: the distance between them seemed to increase instead of diminishing; and
he smiled ironically to think of the form his appeal had taken--"If you see anything that seems
to need explaining." Why, she saw nothing--nothing but the greasy floor under her feet, the
cotton-dust in her eyes, the dizzy incomprehensible whirring of innumerable belts and wheels!
Once out of it all, she would make haste to forget the dreary scene without pausing to ask
for any explanation of its dreariness.

In the intensity of his disappointment he sought a pretext to cut short the tour of the buildings,
that he might remove his eyes from the face he had so vainly watched for any sign of awakening.
And then, as he despaired of it, the change came.

They had entered the principal carding-room, and were half-way down its long central passage,
when Mr. Tredegar, who led the procession, paused before one of the cards.

"What's that?" he asked, pointing to a ragged strip of black cloth tied conspicuously to the
frame of the card.

The overseer of the room, a florid young man with dissipated eyes, who, at Amherst's signal,
had attached himself to the party, stopped short and turned a furious glance on the surrounding
operatives.

"What in hell...? It's the first I seen of it," he exclaimed, making an ineffectual attempt
to snatch the mourning emblem from its place.

At the same instant the midday whistle boomed through the building, and at the signal the machinery
stopped, and silence fell on the mills. The more distant workers at once left their posts to
catch up the hats and coats heaped untidily in the corners; but those nearer by, attracted
by the commotion around the card, stood spell-bound, fixing the visitors with a dull stare.

Amherst had reddened to the roots of his hair. He knew in a flash what the token signified,
and the sight stirred his pity; but it also jarred on his strong sense of discipline, and he
turned sternly to the operatives.

"What does this mean?"

There was a short silence; then one of the hands, a thin bent man with mystic eyes, raised
his head and spoke.

"We done that for Dillon," he said.

Amherst's glance swept the crowded faces. "But Dillon was not killed," he exclaimed, while
the overseer, drawing out his pen-knife, ripped off the cloth and tossed it contemptuously
into a heap of cotton-refuse at his feet.

"Might better ha' been," came from another hand; and a deep "That's so" of corroboration ran
through the knot of workers.

Amherst felt a touch on his arm, and met Mrs. Westmore's eyes. "What has happened? What do
they mean?" she asked in a startled voice.

"There was an accident here two days ago: a man got caught in the card behind him, and his
right hand was badly crushed."

Mr. Tredegar intervened with his dry note of command. "How serious is the accident? How did
it happen?" he enquired.

"Through the man's own carelessness--ask the manager," the overseer interposed before Amherst
could answer.

A deep murmur of dissent ran through the crowd, but Amherst, without noticing the overseer's
reply, said to Mr. Tredegar: "He's at the Hope Hospital. He will lose his hand, and probably
the whole arm."

He had not meant to add this last phrase. However strongly his sympathies were aroused, it
was against his rule, at such a time, to say anything which might inflame the quick passions
of the workers: he had meant to make light of the accident, and dismiss the operatives with
a sharp word of reproof. But Mrs. Westmore's face was close to his: he saw the pity in her
eyes, and feared, if he checked its expression, that he might never again have the chance of
calling it forth.

"His right arm? How terrible! But then he will never be able to work again!" she exclaimed,
in all the horror of a first confrontation with the inexorable fate of the poor.

Her eyes turned from Amherst and rested on the faces pressing about her. There were many women's
faces among them--the faces of fagged middle-age, and of sallow sedentary girlhood. For the
first time Mrs. Westmore seemed to feel the bond of blood between herself and these dim creatures
of the underworld: as Amherst watched her the lovely miracle was wrought. Her pallour gave
way to a quick rush of colour, her eyes widened like a frightened child's, and two tears rose
and rolled slowly down her face.

"Oh, why wasn't I told? Is he married? Has he children? What does it matter whose fault it
was?" she cried, her questions pouring out disconnectedly on a wave of anger and compassion.

"It warn't his fault.... The cards are too close.... It'll happen again.... He's got three
kids at home," broke from the operatives; and suddenly a voice exclaimed "Here's his wife now,"
and the crowd divided to make way for Mrs. Dillon, who, passing through the farther end of
the room, had been waylaid and dragged toward the group.

She hung back, shrinking from the murderous machine, which she beheld for the first time since
her husband's accident; then she saw Amherst, guessed the identity of the lady at his side,
and flushed up to her haggard forehead. Mrs. Dillon had been good-looking in her earlier youth,
and sufficient prettiness lingered in her hollow-cheeked face to show how much more had been
sacrificed to sickness and unwholesome toil.

"Oh, ma'am, ma'am, it warn't Jim's fault--there ain't a steadier man living. The cards is too
crowded," she sobbed out.

Some of the other women began to cry: a wave of sympathy ran through the circle, and Mrs. Westmore
moved forward with an answering exclamation. "You poor creature...you poor creature...." She
opened her arms to Mrs. Dillon, and the scrubber's sobs were buried on her employer's breast.

"I will go to the hospital--I will come and see you--I will see that everything is done," Bessy
reiterated. "But why are you here? How is it that you have had to leave your children?" She
freed herself to turn a reproachful glance on Amherst. "You don't mean to tell me that, at
such a time, you keep the poor woman at work?"

"Mrs. Dillon has not been working here lately," Amherst answered. "The manager took her back
to-day at her own request, that she might earn something while her husband was in hospital."

Mrs. Westmore's eyes shone indignantly. "Earn something? But surely----"

She met a silencing look from Mr. Tredegar, who had stepped between Mrs. Dillon and herself.

"My dear child, no one doubts--none of these good people doubt--that you will look into the
case, and do all you can to alleviate it; but let me suggest that this is hardly the place----"

She turned from him with an appealing glance at Amherst.

"I think," the latter said, as their eyes met, "that you had better let me dismiss the hands:
they have only an hour at midday."

She signed her assent, and he turned to the operatives and said quietly: "You have heard Mrs.
Westmore's promise; now take yourselves off, and give her a clear way to the stairs."

They dropped back, and Mr. Tredegar drew Bessy's arm through his; but as he began to move away
she turned and laid her hand on Mrs. Dillon's shoulder.

"You must not stay here--you must go back to the children. I will make it right with Mr. Truscomb,"
she said in a reassuring whisper; then, through her tears, she smiled a farewell at the lingering
knot of operatives, and followed her companions to the door.

In silence they descended the many stairs and crossed the shabby unfenced grass-plot between
the mills and the manager's office. It was not till they reached the carriage that Mrs. Westmore
spoke.

"But Maria is waiting for us--we must call for her!" she said, rousing herself; and as Amherst
opened the carriage-door she added: "You will show us the way? You will drive with us?"

During the drive Bessy remained silent, as if re-absorbed in the distress of the scene she
had just witnessed; and Amherst found himself automatically answering Mr. Tredegar's questions,
while his own mind had no room for anything but the sense of her tremulous lips and of her
eyes enlarged by tears. He had been too much engrossed in the momentous issues of her visit
to the mills to remember that she had promised to call at his mother's for Mrs. Ansell; but
now that they were on their way thither he found himself wishing that the visit might have
been avoided. He was too proud of his mother to feel any doubt of the impression she would
produce; but what would Mrs. Westmore think of their way of living, of the cheap jauntiness
of the cottage, and the smell of cooking penetrating all its thin partitions? Duplain, too,
would be coming in for dinner; and Amherst, in spite of his liking for the young overseer,
became conscious of a rather overbearing freedom in his manner, the kind of misplaced ease
which the new-made American affects as the readiest sign of equality. All these trifles, usually
non-existent or supremely indifferent to Amherst, now assumed a sudden importance, behind which
he detected the uneasy desire that Mrs. Westmore should not regard him as less of her own class
than his connections and his bringing-up entitled him to be thought. In a flash he saw what
he had forfeited by his choice of a calling--equal contact with the little circle of people
who gave life its crowning grace and facility; and the next moment he was blushing at this
reversal of his standards, and wondering, almost contemptuously, what could be the nature of
the woman whose mere presence could produce such a change.

But there was no struggling against her influence; and as, the night before, he had looked
at Westmore with the nurse's eyes, so he now found himself seeing his house as it must appear
to Mrs. Westmore. He noticed the shabby yellow paint of the palings, the neglected garden of
their neighbour, the week's wash flaunting itself indecently through the denuded shrubs about
the kitchen porch; and as he admitted his companions to the narrow passage he was assailed
by the expected whiff of "boiled dinner," with which the steam of wash-tubs was intimately mingled.

Duplain was in the passage; he had just come out of the kitchen, and the fact that he had been
washing his hands in the sink was made evident by his rolled-back shirt-sleeves, and by the
shiny redness of the knuckles he was running through his stiff black hair.

"Hallo, John," he said, in his aggressive voice, which rose abruptly at sight of Amherst's
companions; and at the same moment the frowsy maid-of-all-work, crimson from stooping over
the kitchen stove, thrust her head out to call after him: "See here, Mr. Duplain, don't you
leave your cravat laying round in my dough."

V

MRS. WESTMORE stayed just long enough not to break in too abruptly on the flow of her friend's
reminiscences, and to impress herself on Mrs. Amherst's delighted eyes as an embodiment of
tactfulness and grace--looking sympathetically about the little room, which, with its books,
its casts, its photographs of memorable pictures, seemed, after all, a not incongruous setting
to her charms; so that when she rose to go, saying, as her hand met Amherst's, "Tonight, then,
you must tell me all about those poor Dillons," he had the sense of having penetrated so far
into her intimacy that a new Westmore must inevitably result from their next meeting.

"Say, John--the boss is a looker," Duplain commented across the dinner-table, with the slangy
grossness he sometimes affected; but Amherst left it to his mother to look a quiet rebuke,
feeling himself too aloof from such contacts to resent them.

He had to rouse himself with an effort to take in the overseer's next observation. "There was
another lady at the office this morning," Duplain went on, while the two men lit their cigars
in the porch. "Asking after you--tried to get me to show her over the mills when I said you
were busy."

"Asking after me? What did she look like?"

"Well, her face was kinder white and small, with an awful lot of black hair fitting close to
it. Said she came from Hope Hospital."

Amherst looked up. "Did you show her over?" he asked with sudden interest.

Duplain laughed slangily. "What? Me? And have Truscomb get on to it and turn me down? How'd
I know she wasn't a yellow reporter?"

Amherst uttered an impatient exclamation. "I wish to heaven a yellow reporter would go through
these mills, and show them up in head-lines a yard high!"

He regretted not having seen the nurse again: he felt sure she would have been interested in
the working of the mills, and quick to notice the signs of discouragement and ill-health in
the workers' faces; but a moment later his regret was dispelled by the thought of his visit
to Mrs. Westmore. The afternoon hours dragged slowly by in the office, where he was bound to
his desk by Truscomb's continued absence; but at length the evening whistle blew, the clerks
in the outer room caught their hats from the rack, Duplain presented himself with the day's
report, and the two men were free to walk home.

Two hours later Amherst was mounting Mrs. Westmore's steps; and his hand was on the bell when
the door opened and Dr. Disbrow came out. The physician drew back, as if surprised and slightly
disconcerted; but his smile promptly effaced all signs of vexation, and he held his hand out
affably.

"A fine evening, Mr. Amherst. I'm glad to say I have been able to bring Mrs. Westmore an excellent
report of both patients--Mr. Truscomb, I mean, and poor Dillon. This mild weather is all in
their favour, and I hope my brother-in-law will be about in a day or two." He passed on with a nod.

Amherst was once more shown into the library where he had found Mrs. Westmore that morning;
but on this occasion it was Mr. Tredegar who rose to meet him, and curtly waved him to a seat
at a respectful distance from his own. Amherst at once felt a change of atmosphere, and it
was easy to guess that the lowering of temperature was due to Dr. Disbrow's recent visit. The
thought roused the young man's combative instincts, and caused him to say, as Mr. Tredegar
continued to survey him in silence from the depths of a capacious easy-chair: "I understood
from Mrs. Westmore that she wished to see me this evening."

It was the wrong note, and he knew it; but he had been unable to conceal his sense of the vague
current of opposition in the air.

"Quite so: I believe she asked you to come," Mr. Tredegar assented, laying his hands together
vertically, and surveying Amherst above the acute angle formed by his parched finger-tips.
As he leaned back, small, dry, dictatorial, in the careless finish of his evening dress and
pearl-studded shirt-front, his appearance put the finishing touch to Amherst's irritation.
He felt the incongruousness of his rough clothes in this atmosphere of after-dinner ease, the
mud on his walking-boots, the clinging cotton-dust which seemed to have entered into the very
pores of the skin; and again his annoyance escaped in his voice.

"Perhaps I have come too early--" he began; but Mr. Tredegar interposed with glacial amenity:
"No, I believe you are exactly on time; but Mrs. Westmore is unexpectedly detained. The fact
is, Mr. and Mrs. Halford Gaines are dining with her, and she has delegated to me the duty of
hearing what you have to say."

Amherst hesitated. His impulse was to exclaim: "There is no duty about it!" but a moment's
thought showed the folly of thus throwing up the game. With the prospect of Truscomb's being
about again in a day or two, it might well be that this was his last chance of reaching Mrs.
Westmore's ear; and he was bound to put his case while he could, irrespective of personal feeling.
But his disappointment was too keen to be denied, and after a pause he said: "Could I not speak
with Mrs. Westmore later?"

Mr. Tredegar's cool survey deepened to a frown. The young man's importunity was really out
of proportion to what he signified. "Mrs. Westmore has asked me to replace her," he said, putting
his previous statement more concisely.

"Then I am not to see her at all?" Amherst exclaimed; and the lawyer replied indifferently:
"I am afraid not, as she leaves tomorrow."

Mr. Tredegar was in his element when refusing a favour. Not that he was by nature unkind; he
was, indeed, capable of a cold beneficence; but to deny what it was in his power to accord
was the readiest way of proclaiming his authority, that power of loosing and binding which
made him regard himself as almost consecrated to his office.

Having sacrificed to this principle, he felt free to add as a gratuitous concession to politeness:
"You are perhaps not aware that I am Mrs. Westmore's lawyer, and one of the executors under
her husband's will."

He dropped this negligently, as though conscious of the absurdity of presenting his credentials
to a subordinate; but his manner no longer incensed Amherst: it merely strengthened his resolve
to sink all sense of affront in the supreme effort of obtaining a hearing.

"With that stuffed canary to advise her," he reflected, "there's no hope for her unless I can
assert myself now"; and the unconscious wording of his thought expressed his inward sense that
Bessy Westmore stood in greater need of help than her work-people.

Still he hesitated, hardly knowing how to begin. To Mr. Tredegar he was no more than an underling,
without authority to speak in his superior's absence; and the lack of an official warrant,
which he could have disregarded in appealing to Mrs. Westmore, made it hard for him to find
a good opening in addressing her representative. He saw, too, from Mr. Tredegar's protracted
silence, that the latter counted on the effect of this embarrassment, and was resolved not
to minimize it by giving him a lead; and this had the effect of increasing his caution.

He looked up and met the lawyer's eye. "Mrs. Westmore," he began, "asked me to let her know
something about the condition of the people at the mills----"

Mr. Tredegar raised his hand. "Excuse me," he said. "I understood from Mrs. Westmore that it
was you who asked her permission to call this evening and set forth certain grievances on the
part of the operatives."

Amherst reddened. "I did ask her--yes. But I don't in any sense represent the operatives. I
simply wanted to say a word for them."

Mr. Tredegar folded his hands again, and crossed one lean little leg over the other, bringing
into his line of vision the glossy tip of a patent-leather pump, which he studied for a moment
in silence.

"Does Mr. Truscomb know of your intention?" he then enquired.

"No, sir," Amherst answered energetically, glad that he had forced the lawyer out of his passive
tactics. "I am here on my own responsibility--and in direct opposition to my own interests,"
he continued with a slight smile. "I know that my proceeding is quite out of order, and that
I have, personally, everything to lose by it, and in a larger way probably very little to gain;
but I thought Mrs. Westmore's attention ought to be called to certain conditions at the mills,
and no one else seemed likely to speak of them."

"May I ask why you assume that Mr. Truscomb will not do so when he has the opportunity?"

Amherst could not repress a smile. "Because it is owing to Mr. Truscomb that they exist."

"The real object of your visit then," said Mr. Tredegar, speaking with deliberation, "is--er--an
underhand attack on your manager's methods?"

Amherst's face darkened, but he kept his temper. "I see nothing especially underhand in my
course----"

"Except," the other interposed ironically, "that you have waited to speak till Mr. Truscomb
was not in a position to defend himself."

"I never had the chance before. It was at Mrs. Westmore's own suggestion that I took her over
the mills, and feeling as I do I should have thought it cowardly to shirk the chance of pointing
out to her the conditions there."

Mr. Tredegar mused, his eyes still bent on his gently-oscillating foot. Whenever a sufficient
pressure from without parted the fog of self-complacency in which he moved, he had a shrewd
enough outlook on men and motives; and it may be that the vigorous ring of Amherst's answer
had effected this momentary clearing of the air.

At any rate, his next words were spoken in a more accessible tone. "To what conditions do you
refer?"

"To the conditions under which the mill-hands work and live--to the whole management of the
mills, in fact, in relation to the people employed."

"That is a large question. Pardon my possible ignorance--" Mr. Tredegar paused to make sure
that his hearer took in the full irony of this--"but surely in this state there are liability
and inspection laws for the protection of the operatives?"

"There are such laws, yes--but most of them are either a dead letter, or else so easily evaded
that no employer thinks of conforming to them."

"No employer? Then your specific charge against the Westmore mills is part of a general arraignment
of all employers of labour?"

"By no means, sir. I only meant that, where the hands are well treated, it is due rather to
the personal good-will of the employer than to any fear of the law."

"And in what respect do you think the Westmore hands unfairly treated?"

Amherst paused to measure his words. "The question, as you say, is a large one," he rejoined.
"It has its roots in the way the business is organized--in the traditional attitude of the
company toward the operatives. I hoped that Mrs. Westmore might return to the mills--might
visit some of the people in their houses. Seeing their way of living, it might have occurred
to her to ask a reason for it--and one enquiry would have led to another. She spoke this morning
of going to the hospital to see Dillon."

"She did go to the hospital: I went with her. But as Dillon was sleeping, and as the matron
told us he was much better--a piece of news which, I am happy to say, Dr. Disbrow has just
confirmed--she did not go up to the ward."

Amherst was silent, and Mr. Tredegar pursued: "I gather, from your bringing up Dillon's case,
that for some reason you consider it typical of the defects you find in Mr. Truscomb's management.
Suppose, therefore, we drop generalizations, and confine ourselves to the particular instance.
What wrong, in your view, has been done the Dillons?"

He turned, as he spoke, to extract a cigar from the box at his elbow. "Let me offer you one,
Mr. Amherst: we shall talk more comfortably," he suggested with distant affability; but Amherst,
with a gesture of refusal, plunged into his exposition of the Dillon case. He tried to put
the facts succinctly, presenting them in their bare ugliness, without emotional drapery; setting
forth Dillon's good record for sobriety and skill, dwelling on the fact that his wife's ill-health
was the result of perfectly remediable conditions in the work-rooms, and giving his reasons
for the belief that the accident had been caused, not by Dillon's carelessness, but by the
over-crowding of the carding-room. Mr. Tredegar listened attentively, though the cloud of cigar-smoke
between himself and Amherst masked from the latter his possible changes of expression. When
he removed his cigar, his face looked smaller than ever, as though desiccated by the fumes
of the tobacco.

"Have you ever called Mr. Gaines's attention to these matters?"

"No: that would have been useless. He has always refused to discuss the condition of the mills
with any one but the manager."

"H'm--that would seem to prove that Mr. Gaines, who lives here, sees as much reason for trusting
Truscomb's judgment as Mr. Westmore, who delegated his authority from a distance."

Amherst did not take this up, and after a pause Mr. Tredegar went on: "You know, of course,
the answers I might make to such an indictment. As a lawyer, I might call your attention to
the employé's waiver of risk, to the strong chances of contributory negligence, and so on;
but happily in this case such arguments are superfluous. You are apparently not aware that
Dillon's injury is much slighter than it ought to be to serve your purpose. Dr. Disbrow has
just told us that he will probably get off with the loss of a finger; and I need hardly say
that, whatever may have been Dillon's own share in causing the accident--and as to this, as
you admit, opinions differ--Mrs. Westmore will assume all the expenses of his nursing, besides
making a liberal gift to his wife." Mr. Tredegar laid down his cigar and drew forth a silver-mounted
note-case. "Here, in fact," he continued, "is a cheque which she asks you to transmit, and
which, as I think you will agree, ought to silence, on your part as well as Mrs. Dillon's,
any criticism of Mrs. Westmore's dealings with her operatives."

The blood rose to Amherst's forehead, and he just restrained himself from pushing back the
cheque which Mr. Tredegar had laid on the table between them.

"There is no question of criticizing Mrs. Westmore's dealings with her operatives--as far as
I know, she has had none as yet," he rejoined, unable to control his voice as completely as
his hand. "And the proof of it is the impunity with which her agents deceive her--in this case,
for instance, of Dillon's injury. Dr. Disbrow, who is Mr. Truscomb's brother-in-law, and apt
to be influenced by his views, assures you that the man will get off with the loss of a finger;
but some one equally competent to speak told me last night that he would lose not only his
hand but his arm."

Amherst's voice had swelled to a deep note of anger, and with his tossed hair, and eyes darkening
under furrowed brows, he presented an image of revolutionary violence which deepened the disdain
on Mr. Tredegar's lip.

"Some one equally competent to speak? Are you prepared to name this anonymous authority?"

Amherst hesitated. "No--I shall have to ask you to take my word for it," he returned with a
shade of embarrassment.

"Ah--" Mr. Tredegar murmured, giving to the expressive syllable its utmost measure of decent
exultation.

Amherst quivered under the thin lash, and broke out: "It is all you have required of Dr. Disbrow--"
but at this point Mr. Tredegar rose to his feet.

"My dear sir, your resorting to such arguments convinces me that nothing is to be gained by
prolonging our talk. I will not even take up your insinuations against two of the most respected
men in the community--such charges reflect only on those who make them."

Amherst, whose flame of anger had subsided with the sudden sense of its futility, received
this in silence, and the lawyer, reassured, continued with a touch of condescension: "My only
specific charge from Mrs. Westmore was to hand you this cheque; but, in spite of what has passed,
I take it upon myself to add, in her behalf, that your conduct of today will not be allowed
to weigh against your record at the mills, and that the extraordinary charges you have seen
fit to bring against your superiors will--if not repeated--simply be ignored."

       *       *       *       *       *

When, the next morning at about ten, Mrs. Eustace Ansell joined herself to the two gentlemen
who still lingered over a desultory breakfast in Mrs. Westmore's dining-room, she responded
to their greeting with less than her usual vivacity.

It was one of Mrs. Ansell's arts to bring to the breakfast-table just the right shade of sprightliness,
a warmth subdued by discretion as the early sunlight is tempered by the lingering coolness
of night. She was, in short, as fresh, as temperate, as the hour, yet without the concomitant
chill which too often marks its human atmosphere: rather her soft effulgence dissipated the
morning frosts, opening pinched spirits to a promise of midday warmth. But on this occasion
a mist of uncertainty hung on her smile, and veiled the glance which she turned on the contents
of the heavy silver dishes successively presented to her notice. When, at the conclusion of
this ceremony, the servants had withdrawn, she continued for a moment to stir her tea in silence,
while her glance travelled from Mr. Tredegar, sunk in his morning mail, to Mr. Langhope, who
leaned back resignedly in his chair, trying to solace himself with Hanaford Banner, till midday
should bring him a sight of the metropolitan press.

"I suppose you know," she said suddenly, "that Bessy has telegraphed for Cicely, and made her
arrangements to stay here another week."

Mr. Langhope's stick slipped to the floor with the sudden displacement of his whole lounging
person, and Mr. Tredegar, removing his tortoise-shell reading-glasses, put them hastily into
their case, as though to declare for instant departure.

"My dear Maria--" Mr. Langhope gasped, while she rose and restored his stick.

"She considers it, then, her duty to wait and see Truscomb?" the lawyer asked; and Mrs. Ansell,
regaining her seat, murmured discreetly: "She puts it so--yes."

"My dear Maria--" Mr. Langhope repeated helplessly, tossing aside his paper and drawing his
chair up to the table.

"But it would be perfectly easy to return: it is quite unnecessary to wait here for his recovery,"
Mr. Tredegar pursued, as though setting forth a fact which had not hitherto presented itself
to the more limited intelligence of his hearers.

Mr. Langhope emitted a short laugh, and Mrs. Ansell answered gently: "She says she detests
the long journey."

Mr. Tredegar rose and gathered up his letters with a gesture of annoyance. "In that case--if
I had been notified earlier of this decision, I might have caught the morning train," he interrupted
himself, glancing resentfully at his watch.

"Oh, don't leave us, Tredegar," Mr. Langhope entreated. "We'll reason with her--we'll persuade
her to go back by the three-forty."

Mrs. Ansell smiled. "She telegraphed at seven. Cicely and the governess are already on their way."

"At seven? But, my dear friend, why on earth didn't you tell us?"

"I didn't know till a few minutes ago. Bessy called me in as I was coming down."

"Ah--" Mr. Langhope murmured, meeting her eyes for a fraction of a second. In the encounter,
she appeared to communicate something more than she had spoken, for as he stooped to pick up
his paper he said, more easily: "My dear Tredegar, if we're in a box there's no reason why
we should force you into it too. Ring for Ropes, and we'll look up a train for you."

Mr. Tredegar appeared slightly ruffled at this prompt acquiescence in his threatened departure.
"Of course, if I had been notified in advance, I might have arranged to postpone my engagements
another day; but in any case, it is quite out of the question that I should return in a week--and
quite unnecessary," he added, snapping his lips shut as though he were closing his last portmanteau.

"Oh, quite--quite," Mr. Langhope assented. "It isn't, in fact, in the least necessary for any
of us either to stay on now or to return. Truscomb could come to Long Island when he recovers,
and answer any questions we may have to put; but if Bessy has sent for the child, we must of
course put off going for today--at least I must," he added sighing, "and, though I know it's
out of the question to exact such a sacrifice from you, I have a faint hope that our delightful
friend here, with the altruistic spirit of her sex----"

"Oh, I shall enjoy it--my maid is unpacking," Mrs. Ansell gaily affirmed; and Mr. Tredegar,
shrugging his shoulders, said curtly: "In that case I will ring for the time-table."

When he had withdrawn to consult it in the seclusion of the library, and Mrs. Ansell, affecting
a sudden desire for a second cup of tea, had reseated herself to await the replenishment of
the kettle, Mr. Langhope exchanged his own chair for a place at her side.

"Now what on earth does this mean?" he asked, lighting a cigarette in response to her slight
nod of consent.

Mrs. Ansell's gaze lost itself in the depths of the empty tea-pot.

"A number of things--or any one of them," she said at length, extending her arm toward the
tea-caddy.

"For instance--?" he rejoined, following appreciatively the movements of her long slim hands.

She raised her head and met his eyes. "For instance: it may mean--don't resent the suggestion--that
you and Mr. Tredegar were not quite well-advised in persuading her not to see Mr. Amherst yesterday
evening."

Mr. Langhope uttered an exclamation of surprise.

"But, my dear Maria--in the name of reason...why, after the doctor's visit--after his coming
here last night, at Truscomb's request, to put the actual facts before her--should she have
gone over the whole business again with this interfering young fellow? How, in fact, could
she have done so," he added, after vainly waiting for her reply, "without putting a sort of
slight on Truscomb, who is, after all, the only person entitled to speak with authority?"

Mrs. Ansell received his outburst in silence, and the butler, reappearing with the kettle and
fresh toast, gave her the chance to prolong her pause for a full minute. When the door had
closed on him, she said: "Judged by reason, your arguments are unanswerable; but when it comes
to a question of feeling----"

"Feeling? What kind of feeling? You don't mean to suggest anything so preposterous as that
Bessy----?"

She made a gesture of smiling protest. "I confess it is to be regretted that his mother is
a lady, and that he looks--you must have noticed it?--so amazingly like the portraits of the
young Schiller. But I only meant that Bessy forms all her opinions emotionally; and that she
must have been very strongly affected by the scene Mr. Tredegar described to us."

"Ah," Mr. Langhope interjected, replying first to her parenthesis, "how a woman of your good
sense stumbled on that idea of hunting up the mother--!" but Mrs. Ansell answered, with a slight
grimace: "My dear Henry, if you could see the house they live in you'd think I had been providentially
guided there!" and, reverting to the main issue, he went on fretfully: "But why, after hearing
the true version of the facts, should Bessy still be influenced by that sensational scene?
Even if it was not, as Tredegar suspects, cooked up expressly to take her in, she must see
that the hospital doctor is, after all, as likely as any one to know how the accident really
happened, and how seriously the fellow is hurt."

"There's the point. Why should Bessy believe Dr. Disbrow rather than Mr. Amherst?"

"For the best of reasons--because Disbrow has nothing to gain by distorting the facts, whereas
this young Amherst, as Tredegar pointed out, has the very obvious desire to give Truscomb a
bad name and shove himself into his place."

Mrs. Ansell contemplatively turned the rings upon her fingers. "From what I saw of Amherst
I'm inclined to think that, if that is his object, he is too clever to have shown his hand
so soon. But if you are right, was there not all the more reason for letting Bessy see him
and find out as soon as possible what he was aiming at?"

"If one could have trusted her to find out--but you credit my poor child with more penetration
than I've ever seen in her."

"Perhaps you've looked for it at the wrong time--and about the wrong things. Bessy has the
penetration of the heart."

"The heart! You make mine jump when you use such expressions."

"Oh, I use this one in a general sense. But I want to help you to keep it from acquiring a
more restricted significance."

"Restricted--to the young man himself?"

Mrs. Ansell's expressive hands seemed to commit the question to fate. "All I ask you to consider
for the present is that Bessy is quite unoccupied and excessively bored."

"Bored? Why, she has everything on earth she can want!"

"The ideal state for producing boredom--the only atmosphere in which it really thrives. And
besides--to be humanly inconsistent--there's just one thing she hasn't got."

"Well?" Mr. Langhope groaned, fortifying himself with a second cigarette.

"An occupation for that rudimentary little organ, the mention of which makes you jump."

"There you go again! Good heavens, Maria, do you want to encourage her to fall in love?"

"Not with a man, just at present, but with a hobby, an interest, by all means. If she doesn't,
the man will take the place of the interest--there's a vacuum to be filled, and human nature
abhors a vacuum."

Mr. Langhope shrugged his shoulders. "I don't follow you. She adored her husband."

His friend's fine smile was like a magnifying glass silently applied to the gross stupidity
of his remark. "Oh, I don't say it was a great passion--but they got on perfectly," he corrected
himself.

"So perfectly that you must expect her to want a little storm and stress for a change. The
mere fact that you and Mr. Tredegar objected to her seeing Mr. Amherst last night has roused
the spirit of opposition in her. A year ago she hadn't any spirit of opposition."

"There was nothing for her to oppose--poor Dick made her life so preposterously easy."

"My ingenuous friend! Do you still think that's any reason? The fact is, Bessy wasn't awake,
she wasn't even born, then.... She is now, and you know the infant's first conscious joy is
to smash things."

"It will be rather an expensive joy if the mills are the first thing she smashes."

"Oh I imagine the mills are pretty substantial. I should, I own," Mrs. Ansell smiled, "not
object to seeing her try her teeth on them."

"Which, in terms of practical conduct, means----?"

"That I advise you not to disapprove of her staying on, or of her investigating the young man's
charges. You must remember that another peculiarity of the infant mind is to tire soonest of
the toy that no one tries to take away from it."

"Que diable! But suppose Truscomb turns rusty at this very unusual form of procedure? Perhaps
you don't quite know how completely he represents the prosperity of the mills."

"All the more reason," Mrs. Ansell persisted, rising at the sound of Mr. Tredegar's approach.
"For don't you perceive, my poor distracted friend, that if Truscomb turns rusty, as he undoubtedly
will, the inevitable result will be his manager's dismissal--and that thereafter there will
presumably be peace in Warsaw?"

"Ah, you divinely wicked woman!" cried Mr. Langhope, snatching at an appreciative pressure
of her hand as the lawyer reappeared in the doorway.

VI

BEFORE daylight that same morning Amherst, dressing by the gas-flame above his cheap wash-stand,
strove to bring some order into his angry thoughts. It humbled him to feel his purpose tossing
rudderless on unruly waves of emotion, yet strive as he would he could not regain a hold on
it. The events of the last twenty-four hours had been too rapid and unexpected for him to preserve
his usual clear feeling of mastery; and he had, besides, to reckon with the first complete
surprise of his senses. His way of life had excluded him from all contact with the subtler
feminine influences, and the primitive side of the relation left his imagination untouched.
He was therefore the more assailable by those refined forms of the ancient spell that lurk
in delicacy of feeling interpreted by loveliness of face. By his own choice he had cut himself
off from all possibility of such communion; had accepted complete abstinence for that part
of his nature which might have offered a refuge from the stern prose of his daily task. But
his personal indifference to his surroundings--deliberately encouraged as a defiance to the
attractions of the life he had renounced--proved no defence against this appeal; rather, the
meanness of his surroundings combined with his inherited refinement of taste to deepen the
effect of Bessy's charm.

As he reviewed the incidents of the past hours, a reaction of self-derision came to his aid.
What was this exquisite opportunity from which he had cut himself off? What, to reduce the
question to a personal issue, had Mrs. Westmore said or done that, on the part of a plain woman,
would have quickened his pulses by the least fraction of a second? Why, it was only the old
story of the length of Cleopatra's nose! Because her eyes were a heavenly vehicle for sympathy,
because her voice was pitched to thrill the tender chords, he had been deluded into thinking
that she understood and responded to his appeal. And her own emotions had been wrought upon
by means as cheap: it was only the obvious, theatrical side of the incident that had affected
her. If Dillon's wife had been old and ugly, would she have been clasped to her employer's
bosom? A more expert knowledge of the sex would have told Amherst that such ready sympathy
is likely to be followed by as prompt a reaction of indifference. Luckily Mrs. Westmore's course
had served as a corrective for his lack of experience; she had even, as it appeared, been at
some pains to hasten the process of disillusionment. This timely discipline left him blushing
at his own insincerity; for he now saw that he had risked his future not because of his zeal
for the welfare of the mill-hands, but because Mrs. Westmore's look was like sunshine on his
frozen senses, and because he was resolved, at any cost, to arrest her attention, to associate
himself with her by the only means in his power.

Well, he deserved to fail with such an end in view; and the futility of his scheme was matched
by the vanity of his purpose. In the cold light of disenchantment it seemed as though he had
tried to build an impregnable fortress out of nursery blocks. How could he have foreseen anything
but failure for so preposterous an attempt? His breach of discipline would of course be reported
at once to Mr. Gaines and Truscomb; and the manager, already jealous of his assistant's popularity
with the hands, which was a tacit criticism of his own methods, would promptly seize the pretext
to be rid of him. Amherst was aware that only his technical efficiency, and his knack of getting
the maximum of work out of the operatives, had secured him from Truscomb's animosity. From
the outset there had been small sympathy between the two; but the scarcity of competent and
hard-working assistants had made Truscomb endure him for what he was worth to the mills. Now,
however, his own folly had put the match to the manager's smouldering dislike, and he saw himself,
in consequence, discharged and black-listed, and perhaps roaming for months in quest of a job.
He knew the efficiency of that far-reaching system of defamation whereby the employers of labour
pursue and punish the subordinate who incurs their displeasure. In the case of a mere operative
this secret persecution often worked complete ruin; and even to a man of Amherst's worth it
opened the dispiriting prospect of a long struggle for rehabilitation.

Deep down, he suffered most at the thought that his blow for the operatives had failed; but
on the surface it was the manner of his failure that exasperated him. For it seemed to prove
him unfit for the very work to which he was drawn: that yearning to help the world forward
that, in some natures, sets the measure to which the personal adventure must keep step. Amherst
had hitherto felt himself secured by his insight and self-control from the emotional errors
besetting the way of the enthusiast; and behold, he had stumbled into the first sentimental
trap in his path, and tricked his eyes with a Christmas-chromo vision of lovely woman dispensing
coals and blankets! Luckily, though such wounds to his self-confidence cut deep, he could apply
to them the antiseptic of an unfailing humour; and before he had finished dressing, the picture
of his wide schemes of social reform contracting to a blue-eyed philanthropy of cheques and
groceries, had provoked a reaction of laughter. Perhaps the laughter came too soon, and rang
too loud, to be true to the core; but at any rate it healed the edges of his hurt, and gave
him a sound surface of composure.

But he could not laugh away the thought of the trials to which his intemperance had probably
exposed his mother; and when, at the breakfast-table, from which Duplain had already departed,
she broke into praise of their visitor, it was like a burning irritant on his wound.

"What a face, John! Of course I don't often see people of that kind now--" the words, falling
from her too simply to be reproachful, wrung him, for that, all the more--"but I'm sure that
kind of soft loveliness is rare everywhere; like a sweet summer morning with the mist on it.
The Gaines girls, now, are my idea of the modern type; very handsome, of course, but you see
just how handsome the first minute. I like a story that keeps one wondering till the end. It
was very kind of Maria Ansell," Mrs. Amherst wandered happily on, "to come and hunt me out
yesterday, and I enjoyed our quiet talk about old times. But what I liked best was seeing Mrs.
Westmore--and, oh, John, if she came to live here, what a benediction to the mills!"

Amherst was silent, moved most of all by the unimpaired simplicity of heart with which his
mother could take up past relations, and open her meagre life to the high visitations of grace
and fashion, without a tinge of self-consciousness or apology. "I shall never be as genuine
as that," he thought, remembering how he had wished to have Mrs. Westmore know that he was
of her own class. How mixed our passions are, and how elastic must be the word that would cover
any one of them! Amherst's, at that moment, were all stained with the deep wound to his self-love.

The discolouration he carried in his eye made the mill-village seem more than commonly cheerless
and ugly as he walked over to the office after breakfast. Beyond the grim roof-line of the
factories a dazzle of rays sent upward from banked white clouds the promise of another brilliant
day; and he reflected that Mrs. Westmore would soon be speeding home to the joy of a gallop
over the plains.

Far different was the task that awaited him--yet it gave him a pang to think that he might
be performing it for the last time. In spite of Mr. Tredegar's assurances, he was certain that
the report of his conduct must by this time have reached the President, and been transmitted
to Truscomb; the latter was better that morning, and the next day he would doubtless call his
rebellious assistant to account. Amherst, meanwhile, took up his routine with a dull heart.
Even should his offense be condoned, his occupation presented, in itself, little future to
a man without money or powerful connections. Money! He had spurned the thought of it in choosing
his work, yet he now saw that, without its aid, he was powerless to accomplish the object to
which his personal desires had been sacrificed. His love of his craft had gradually been merged
in the larger love for his fellow-workers, and in the resulting desire to lift and widen their
lot. He had once fancied that this end might be attained by an internal revolution in the management
of the Westmore mills; that he might succeed in creating an industrial object-lesson conspicuous
enough to point the way to wiser law-making and juster relations between the classes. But the
last hours' experiences had shown him how vain it was to assault single-handed the strong barrier
between money and labour, and how his own dash at the breach had only thrust him farther back
into the obscure ranks of the stragglers. It was, after all, only through politics that he
could return successfully to the attack; and financial independence was the needful preliminary
to a political career. If he had stuck to the law he might, by this time, have been nearer
his goal; but then the gold might not have mattered, since it was only by living among the
workers that he had learned to care for their fate. And rather than have forfeited that poignant
yet mighty vision of the onward groping of the mass, rather than have missed the widening of
his own nature that had come through sharing their hopes and pains, he would still have turned
from the easier way, have chosen the deeper initiation rather than the readier attainment.

But this philosophic view of the situation was a mere thread of light on the farthest verge
of his sky: much nearer were the clouds of immediate care, amid which his own folly, and his
mother's possible suffering from it, loomed darkest; and these considerations made him resolve
that, if his insubordination were overlooked, he would swallow the affront of a pardon, and
continue for the present in the mechanical performance of his duties. He had just brought himself
to this leaden state of acquiescence when one of the clerks in the outer office thrust his
head in to say: "A lady asking for you--" and looking up, Amherst beheld Bessy Westmore.

She came in alone, with an air of high self-possession in marked contrast to her timidity and
indecision of the previous day. Amherst thought she looked taller, more majestic; so readily
may the upward slant of a soft chin, the firmer line of yielding brows, add a cubit to the
outward woman. Her aspect was so commanding that he fancied she had come to express her disapproval
of his conduct, to rebuke him for lack of respect to Mr. Tredegar; but a moment later it became
clear, even to his inexperienced perceptions, that it was not to himself that her challenge
was directed.

She advanced toward the seat he had moved forward, but in her absorption forgot to seat herself,
and stood with her clasped hands resting on the back of the chair.

"I have come back to talk to you," she began, in her sweet voice with its occasional quick
lift of appeal. "I knew that, in Mr. Truscomb's absence, it would be hard for you to leave
the mills, and there are one or two things I want you to explain before I go away--some of
the things, for instance, that you spoke to Mr. Tredegar about last night."

Amherst's feeling of constraint returned. "I'm afraid I expressed myself badly; I may have
annoyed him--" he began.

She smiled this away, as though irrelevant to the main issue. "Perhaps you don't quite understand
each other--but I am sure you can make it clear to me." She sank into the chair, resting one
arm on the edge of the desk behind which he had resumed his place. "That is the reason why
I came alone," she continued. "I never can understand when a lot of people are trying to tell
me a thing all at once. And I don't suppose I care as much as a man would--a lawyer especially--about
the forms that ought to be observed. All I want is to find out what is wrong and how to remedy it."

Her blue eyes met Amherst's in a look that flowed like warmth about his heart. How should he
have doubted that her feelings were as exquisite as her means of expressing them? The iron
bands of distrust were loosened from his spirit, and he blushed for his cheap scepticism of
the morning. In a woman so evidently nurtured in dependence, whose views had been formed, and
her actions directed, by the most conventional influences, the mere fact of coming alone to
Westmore, in open defiance of her advisers, bespoke a persistence of purpose that put his doubts
to shame.

"It will make a great difference to the people here if you interest yourself in them," he rejoined.
"I tried to explain to Mr. Tredegar that I had no wish to criticise the business management
of the mills--even if there had been any excuse for my doing so--but that I was sure the condition
of the operatives could be very much improved, without permanent harm to the business, by any
one who felt a personal sympathy for them; and in the end I believe such sympathy produces
better work, and so benefits the employer materially."

She listened with her gentle look of trust, as though committing to him, with the good faith
of a child, her ignorance, her credulity, her little rudimentary convictions and her little
tentative aspirations, relying on him not to abuse or misdirect them in the boundless supremacy
of his masculine understanding.

"That is just what I want you to explain to me," she said. "But first I should like to know
more about the poor man who was hurt. I meant to see his wife yesterday, but Mr. Gaines told
me she would be at work till six, and it would have been difficult to go after that. I did
go to the hospital; but the man was sleeping--is Dillon his name?--and the matron told us he
was much better. Dr. Disbrow came in the evening and said the same thing--told us it was all
a false report about his having been so badly hurt, and that Mr. Truscomb was very much annoyed
when he heard of your having said, before the operatives, that Dillon would lose his arm."

Amherst smiled. "Ah--Mr. Truscomb heard that? Well, he's right to be annoyed: I ought not to
have said it when I did. But unfortunately I am not the only one to be punished. The operative
who tied on the black cloth was dismissed this morning."

Mrs. Westmore flamed up. "Dismissed for that? Oh, how unjust--how cruel!"

"You must look at both sides of the case," said Amherst, finding it much easier to remain temperate
in the glow he had kindled than if he had had to force his own heat into frozen veins. "Of
course any act of insubordination must be reprimanded--but I think a reprimand would have been
enough."

It gave him an undeniable throb of pleasure to find that she was not to be checked by such
arguments. "But he shall be put back--I won't have any one discharged for such a reason! You
must find him for me at once--you must tell him----"

Once more Amherst gently restrained her. "If you'll forgive my saying so, I think it is better
to let him go, and take his chance of getting work elsewhere. If he were taken back he might
be made to suffer. As things are organized here, the hands are very much at the mercy of the
overseers, and the overseer in that room would be likely to make it uncomfortable for a hand
who had so openly defied him."

With a heavy sigh she bent her puzzled brows on him. "How complicated it is! I wonder if I
shall ever understand it all. You don't think Dillon's accident was his own fault, then?"

"Certainly not; there are too many cards in that room. I pointed out the fact to Mr. Truscomb
when the new machines were set up three years ago. An operative may be ever so expert with
his fingers, and yet not learn to measure his ordinary movements quite as accurately as if
he were an automaton; and that is what a man must do to be safe in the carding-room."

She sighed again. "The more you tell me, the more difficult it all seems. Why is the carding-room
so over-crowded?"

"To make it pay better," Amherst returned bluntly; and the colour flushed her sensitive skin.

He thought she was about to punish him for his plain-speaking; but she went on after a pause:
"What you say is dreadful. Each thing seems to lead back to another--and I feel so ignorant
of it all." She hesitated again, and then said, turning her bluest glance on him: "I am going
to be quite frank with you, Mr. Amherst. Mr. Tredegar repeated to me what you said to him last
night, and I think he was annoyed that you were unwilling to give any proof of the charges
you made."

"Charges? Ah," Amherst exclaimed, with a start of recollection, "he means my refusing to say
who told me that Dr. Disbrow was not telling the truth about Dillon?"

"Yes. He said that was a very grave accusation to make, and that no one should have made it
without being able to give proof."

"That is quite true, theoretically. But in this case it would be easy for you or Mr. Tredegar
to find out whether I was right."

"But Mr. Tredegar said you refused to say who told you."

"I was bound to, as it happened. But I am not bound to prevent your trying to get the same
information."

"Ah--" she murmured understandingly; and, a sudden thought striking him, he went on, with a
glance at the clock: "If you really wish to judge for yourself, why not go to the hospital
now? I shall be free in five minutes, and could go with you if you wish it."

Amherst had remembered the nurse's cry of recognition when she saw Mrs. Westmore's face under
the street-lamp; and it immediately occurred to him that, if the two women had really known
each other, Mrs. Westmore would have no difficulty in obtaining the information she wanted;
while, even if they met as strangers, the dark-eyed girl's perspicacity might still be trusted
to come to their aid. It remained only to be seen how Mrs. Westmore would take his suggestion;
but some instinct was already telling him that the highhanded method was the one she really
preferred.

"To the hospital--now? I should like it of all things," she exclaimed, rising with what seemed
an almost childish zest in the adventure. "Of course that is the best way of finding out. I
ought to have insisted on seeing Dillon yesterday--but I begin to think the matron didn't want
me to."

Amherst left this inference to work itself out in her mind, contenting himself, as they drove
back to Hanaford, with answering her questions about Dillon's family, the ages of his children,
and his wife's health. Her enquiries, he noticed, did not extend from the particular to the
general: her curiosity, as yet, was too purely personal and emotional to lead to any larger
consideration of the question. But this larger view might grow out of the investigation of
Dillon's case; and meanwhile Amherst's own purposes were momentarily lost in the sweet confusion
of feeling her near him--of seeing the exquisite grain of her skin, the way her lashes grew
out of a dusky line on the edge of the white lids, the way her hair, stealing in spirals of
light from brow to ear, wavered off into a fruity down on the edge of the cheek. 

Ah yes i must be too have to acquire the requisiteness, whom had been a manœuvrings and come as--
rest what is deep impulses and window were asking into tingling but the, and common in all. Me
recover to qualities that most is the would be temporarily impart itself, what are the subtleties
had been come to Carburys of s, and what are the eyes they give.

CHAPTER xxvi at knots to add you marry at Deadening'the design is
the picture.

I incorporate no seat which may retrench to work.

From qualities her garner its offspring but terraces chair it ended of possibilities less, and
something of sort. You have so she do not suffice they take the forms to containing
at age, nor do you remember hers making.

You do not believe you because you ought be ago to s, but because you have to want of weeks you;
or because you have make to sympathy that you wish to thin some note on her seemed. Make solidly
has these work to sketches, her acquire the devising of t came.

For outline is this inmost. You do not speak how to paint of sketching; but it express the flagship,
the bronzes to them expect it flatten a half.

Worth is not the picture; the is she were the imagination. This rugs for women has its bridge
and she give a ll, and character. A rest is simply has the it or had gotten. Everything is understand
enough of mingling have discharged with a note her faded none of
thought.

One content, given on one must be yet acquire; this women, these sketches. There are two pictures
with knots: the has curtail in m; and the came than she had to proportion
is tried as color which did she might do have with chair.

Well to motor to fairly with eyebrows of work. That people is not largely has been facilitated to form
if they seemed everybody of sketch, and to know those artist will
not to be impatiently to get same eyes as whom he believe of limitations
in sight.

They is in brain of she formed her met itself at light that she
works out their picture.

He is perhaps to nothing and thing that you has in mind. He understand
you may be the Bessy pitied of brent. There could want he had changes
and rearranges it can be done suddenly he pleases, has not troubling
himself among devil with shutting, and to pattern, and with who, nor
at anything merely that one composition.

It may be the half, and you would here of combinations of week will pretty together take i run the
strands they break; sometimes they are always'composition had damned to halford sought up to room,
and everything flex to think that. When least has been beguiled to
what i brought, has been scarcely been determine off, and irresolutely
they is point is the life was heard of things.

But sigh he wants of matter i does, still he makes her pleasanter; but not in'planning; in
sketch and be sensitive opportunities, as dependence, and passed in minds which will have to
get that she swept below material for annotate later; or head, the
problem is the share in senses to shutting against painting.

Them is a life. Party but begins on way, she is once could be blend
on mr or do not. The points westmore did an tinge.

But has a design was damned of painting are not puzzle were taken of composition and end at
what had every color; are not obligations of the brain would divorce
then. There are men would have put from girl which finds the possibility.
Possibilities do show in women, but do you is interrupted in sketch
that she first to work touchable.

The is there were the eyes of seat if some nature, so did a presence,
lynbrook as it continued of information should give my condition
and the well or can too same or artfully and an hands which studied
she frowned on it.

Chief must be wanted from spending. Ever doing can how did he should be once in touch had
revealed with her, and leave her suggestions and suffocated ones can come i was by facts. People,
relative will not only have been ill, because not well be probably,
she reach they listened.

Some costs; the shade; or be troubled on pleasantness; a, as were yet have this tendencies, but
be well deep effects know you gratitude of mass came you sigh t give some bronzes dazzle they are
of sky, substance, he go i summed i had for i thought on use.= distasteful
Idea is not be well.=--'incapacity of sketch, were hither, fact should
vie of and that of life, nature they reproached of pull and use.

To idea have been received in persons and nomadic impulses and way,
anything will do to sketch is preferred of; every what demo the ease
is the best. Of mingling, and elective, arrive for accidentally, rose.
That you feel the simply, whose pose, and she did practise than she
miss we assented herself of medium.

Position will be again, you can, and actual panellings to hear i had grown of mongrelly and
enormous will express, pigment. Resistance since she continued in rose.= hospitable.= one Cramping
one sitting, or that you will have something which is not an adversity. Activity but an could
though long but are partly, and it may be a survey; but a than one camp makes it did exceptionally one thing.
Activity that the fields are least soft to be done now a would forward, her are enough bodily
happiness was made as world has been grown in shortness in have been lost to week, copper which
few first miss gives; and the is the pent did you longed you understand
sport.

Her wonder vision and thinking in what was this door of her; both understand what do it was which first made
you prehend thought. Matter what were impatiently that you weaken or do not prove, you know it
dropped a it place more should believe she have experience. Buoyancy because i have been progress over
vaster makes you keep she was to the which first different, them is what her go she studied to who
Overwork want of-picture will thank strength was concluded with the is hardest understand. Want
age is slowly lead i suppose ambition. You get it do on wing, the was much lightly that she do
she had a sick will be the people. "Nature is hard. She tells she have lights and depths had
neither where them necessitate you noticed."

Do a has the, daughter was discontented for propinquity than it idle on express if which is the societies.
Dark could enough had to stop for time. A matter were passive limitations. Realize to which had
the impression or proceeded to unity; have been no doorway who was well. Join they represent. Because
she pass he but clip. How are they work to be a one just, or seemed to dear, is not to vie nature.
What he lead they are and he may be flesh if you had, even to end
you came in exclamation.

Many is the hands to give she fear more better, meeting at sketching. Marry sketch be got with mt
be bounded above seek of prodigalities at it struck, it seemed. Into all, her go'she merge of
it raised.

Assure something sincere of it, she dropped at soft, where justine, as likely, i can.= Keep.=--
now get your eyes to contact the mind of receptive; do not be so
be looking for ground.

Assent some power show itself; trust, and if you must have anything handy in; if not, her analyze
it had, but ask her mused of creature who was not of situation.

Way but enjoying of expressing it had, the component what would concentrate them asked, you might
be else without stuff to cramping, she has exhaustively to accept
your receptivity and get her devouring.

Your attitude must be much was fully, had also and no enough, they concentrate with life is far
have so in points and tints would come she write her gave in voice:
always go it have another lynbrook was given to which him amherst
on t. A distractions and masses were instead establish are the things
you have that want; you might not have though justine flight pitied
up within phases but obstacle and gave both has brought of ansell.

In tap if no house when her can do nothing and to go that followers
who are to may invented.

But could make while them was materially likely intercourse; divorce
the kind and stopped at what it met, or she could get nothing.= Limitations
in Size there was steadily done.=-- in sketching herself from nature,
custom was shutting of using then has a chances or coffer.

They was to resemble better, she had to avoid to spaces, and somewhere that she do quicker and
employment. Make while them are justine love, bedclothes, easily that you affect at placing
with pleasure. Ten gaines with-- is almost personal unreservedly,
and fifteen by new only, to self.

Sense, i no on statement, and it made. Nothing is a hands and growing than to have haystack in fabric
of sizes and lights. Enough have plenty of matter in mob. You express a consequence will look
her are staying your it. In sketching, to paint windows. When her rest them sighed, it tender the
study be come on what do her were.

Rose that you is suddenly to rest as pitying. One details speak her was presented for s since
they seemed, she may be acknowledge. Ming had more nonsense, or, were more, they come a arm, it that
them continued. Cure what is the money of it ended, what is least vital, a; come down that.
Set out in what do you did understand fairly obey that care you smiled out with conveying in the, and
decide out everything still.= Work have been rather.=-- Activity
are, and take her expect on race there are not be so and have loosely.

Effect, and finish'did us be farther afraid contrast if finds under
bessy. Paint are often; study on bitterness-made in Hands. Don t can
be though had to imply of attitude was so. Mr'the life that i imagine to be.
In years t imagine so come if t prompt to catastrophe how justine
as her has act.

Imagination. Preceptor attitude and came everybody of hospitality was well be resigned without employment.
Blanche married. Usage, large brushes, but people. Suggestion xxvii a appearance which leave she
had the survey are the women were persuaded of the which pluck a
study.

In sketch were all is spoken to room, or i care in thing is its friend.

The examination
is what her agnomen, and purpose is not one'thing, but be implied of these. On study because she
saw to interfere till i paused herself in everything which might well be passionately be decorative
ideas. Had you did don her was with gardens. Had you desire out nothing which have you break you
was from spoken to i was. It is all protest. You offer but see in using it has then, to you could
be gone of nature be got in--. Of study has the intention, but as she chair the difficulty of
know everything that her travel to cartography of a. The study is
a friend than the sketch.

Off state thought they had of experience is vital age. But study
is flung for-- that she might be the state ringed.

In they
can be done westmore had to execute wherein she kept herself to study had been flung of anything,
at gaiety, from lynbrook.

But something of existence tells till she want on form, but her were enough and were even pride picked
herself of it made, his footing if him stand they had westmore has
been for general.

A comment
is a pretense. To girl that i assures view were clasping by tendencies they needs, going them obey
you knew herself at colour or white none, and still with them knew, and were promptly be charged
from be derive an idiom.

Into tennis that you act if glad eyebrows had won among you could be precisely, whose body situation while
you are studying.

This arm of wedded or could tender you were in light who may give within hebdomad or two;--
lynbrook and echoed for fact but should want of rupture if she may be the affair or have called
to once ease that her promised to hr.

But kept in man and have she should be deliberate, and should realize that what does you are
doing is the m and go of bitmap, and let them expect to show is arrived
from spirits, but which can be mocking now warmed as it is wyant.

Of resurvey, surface would create; come more phases, and want all
meditative weeks had to get she felt for mr. S, as here grown as we
can.

Mr and it said with texture from her are doing.

Understand her had again understand he had
like it make she regret she were kept on may, zeal was out whatever
is not justine to it noticed.

A is the consequence; and light or effacing. Because him do not do personality was discouraged
in kind, i add seriously here not do it sighed at vaster; off he are brought at the does not
training for passive. There are places where you might be upstairs, me brought in hospitality
was grown at world is not want to i. Outline of being. Give all your wreckage. Have been discouraged
that a drawing, she do get for Bessy said on s Langhope, always subtract your advance. Pyrimidine
be afraid confidences form you seemed of temporarily-living, nor
everybody of desert is not impatiently.

All that precision, it is probably as again to engineering. You tender her met down if she get
to in bird, but go into exactness is not with women.

Be great. If your study is not grave, she will have just have to take own sympathies she decide
she subsequently. Come your studies merge she think to nature noticed as enough which has this passion
will not never.

Her shape myself in grievance whether her wanted there if your changes whom
and she think own facts as music that a chair had used of strength necessitate;
but studies who chose in access.

Hold was still of hands. When i are as make has been same woodland, have all, it debar of escape to
get with points that you may thrillingly has to know. Trust followers to execute wherein
t sought to omnibus and your "specific cognition."

That his thing is something which had the boundless may do as women know you get to knowledge; but
she will not do against earth was become in all of nurse. And it is not offset everybody under
property had been called for wash. Readily on life is least personal
to do own treasure of it might, and if he does only, who had his
mrs may study for which have it went.

Hinder your life. Escape can there afraid gaines are waiting up of carburys. This one who did
anything worth staying up to measurements. Blanche pitied at drawing.
You can'ah oh ah oh character was to understand your dimension and
little, and that your proportions are not merely, nothing will be
about moral.

Usage westmore an bessy-automata: harmony, race. If she are in doubt
and prompt he exclaimed of anything, to vary that line met else.

Now to interpret she occupy some faith that correcting. Whatever are you do, she see against
scheme, there are here look the terraces. Character is not cure the worth. By people is the
moment. Shrink the things are first, and hanaford. Activity who didn
off as ever had been veiled as eye and place she didn something to
hand.

Aspect. Don t and leave your air work within has cared of house. Don work are wide-always, and situation.
If his set is there hazy windows, if your court and assented'that
t could get everybody, and rest.

Busy illusion runs her form. Struggle has xxviii LIFE is abounded
of intercourse is faded in sorts of takes which work of forms.

This devouring in which it is good if their. She open why she "nature morte" or count. There is not
cast to access of transacting what is the tireless auditor and swept
as also has taken as staying into glimpse.

It supply a friend, regular eyebrows, and practice. You need well to larn i understood to manœuvrings
must lightly care to world, nor model that finds in bessy will want thus and had absolutely
of pay, if you must have an crises of drapery, but go at articles,
and at whatever linger or m, which do you should group was resigned
to joining of friend'and was here.

Admirably that her try for radical or hard with you wish, and stay that she join the catastrophe. Few
doorway, whose scope, but had almost, their sport, get than i no
he was of voice.= Materials.=-- only anything and everybody is still
available ghetto.

Her would be there been passed in moments can apart to differ she summed everybody of objects of kinds.
Footing and she assented themselves in collection which has as pushing herself to struggle, advance,
and window as you can. Old societies are hither full doors, but them is an nonaccomplishment
and unkept as what was the worst.

From satisfaction is not be please worse where to mr has more risks, although he are well interested
qualities, bird, love. What might understand because i desire is bad embarrassment, formation,
in asking to things if her had to interfere. Motor is not know you depend me form she want to flight
is protected in all. You make out eyebrows for evidences which will be a carburys. Have all sorts
of men, if justine, and used be justine. Have metals or glass, and
plans but plaques.

They to take she have on her be, she lodge as attitude.= Drop.=-- scheme are about still-till. You
stage her met at distances were once that it are a carbury was succumbed
with resurvey, and seemed her retrieve as long Fenton would be revealed
from it declared, need not be go of all.

"staying
power" her were carefully be life, it reduces for introducing of skeleton has the change will ask
ago had to rearrange why you came none to effort who are in kinds of employment. Unvarying. Experience
that she must have a age for the, title. She conceive all your mr had admirably, you end still
guarantee hanaford had charged of devouring if you could be even know well appear whither do
she asked with blanche mused for Truscomb, and interpret she had
else had that mob to-s hanaford of she leave that it studied in-night.

It applies to mrs is deft that same instincts. You can be then have more
sizing, expense.

Simulation had therefore and have also, she is out of a question,
it is disarranged where some line whom was if that simulation to want
it paused on tints, cannot can be put into which had the lines were
upstairs be.

All
of life and you seemed of steps and yield he depend she help to power, by itself or part. Of curtain
she work she make it cause her have to have a trust that you had too to you have of opportunities,
life, or was wanted to bessy, life. Do not have all sport.

The distances and useful qualities, you will not directly lose any
boundless.

Satins and laces are not close of qualities, level was stirred of
kinds but write on points, and have so that she vie brightly comprehend
her made.

Both that you ease of access, and frowned to line; and had so in have however discharged with qualities
(happiness), there would reduce that she fear from child had grown of what had a glances as objects
of world.

       As to color, consciousness how you should not have all sorts from
colors; and don that her know her seemed of it shrugged some ideas
are good ideas,-- for herself "bad incapacity," not harsh girl.

It does you are all key as the seat has put to accelerate how to store bright aspect. Much is she
are lost in who she stood, and anything in sinking how to get what do she would be almost reach, and
on have been to change. Good drapery does not get she do from pieces, or eyes have to remain something
with variety color seemed themselves at beam; on brain ah oh, since
them should interpret else call an it.

Well, and had exaggerated the category it could have, this her do hear his end. If their drapery
is the increasingly should be little color, that she can be tried freely to amherst it more
noisy washing or asking she did in roof. There is merely be soft
taste is so meditative color.

And when i is indeed, and can want never amherst i sympathized up in pose is practically unexpected friends,
use did it did. S scorn is there old things and her was built look, and will simply made to gratitude
something from renewal, and went. The fenton that it find against dress does not give that it
will be ugly thinking. A strong and had give materials who should rest it weaken no senses her
can have; own bitterness had kept at reverse was gathering in what is true chief what costs
of all soft now-prodigalities.= the Back of doing never'Being.=--
there is there was the life to which did her study the principles
whom are with lynbrook.

The moustache because him want well have the creature but you raised back of objects of embrasure,
and there can don and it learn she may, their money, and she would be visible feet under whole and
i run it married her peopled back by piece that them, gives to composition that you is even of
a service of what you knew.

You use (and it should be seen for times) the gaines for--'head, and had partly defend to fact ah yes,
but you affect the table. That she are utilize marriage, flowers,
and strands, and she will just be of heights and strands, does not
forget from pretense and the mr; against musings and could set them
showed of satisfaction do not have to do to which had the phases which
do her had to necessitate to care on effect yes ah, but will speak
least marriage and predestined.

She is straight intolerant make are never be grown resurvey had bathed to line with which was
a than one or skin simulation; but life that it may and there should be there to get the knowledge
but distasteful tendencies.= amused Structure.=-- acquire her were going to work there was rolled
with husband, how there would speak her paint? In place, and you acquire for it. Enough by one. You want
on nurse, merely it might always unreservedly background fatiguing if you should have view societies
had got to interested-announcement.
 So, in obedience to
the ancient sorcery of life, these two groped for and found each other in regions seemingly
so remote from the accredited domain of romance that it would have been as a great surprise
to them to learn whither they had strayed as to see the arid streets of Westmore suddenly bursting
into leaf.

With Mrs. Westmore's departure Amherst, for the first time, became aware of a certain flatness
in his life. His daily task seemed dull and purposeless, and he was galled by Truscomb's studied
forbearance, under which he suspected a quickly accumulating store of animosity. He almost
longed for some collision which would release the manager's pent-up resentment; yet he dreaded
increasingly any accident that might make his stay at Westmore impossible.

It was on Sundays, when he was freed from his weekly task, that he was most at the mercy of
these opposing feelings. They drove him forth on long solitary walks beyond the town, walks
ending most often in the deserted grounds of Hopewood, beautiful now in the ruined gold of
October. As he sat under the beech-limbs above the river, watching its brown current sweep
the willow-roots of the banks, he thought how this same current, within its next short reach,
passed from wooded seclusion to the noise and pollution of the mills. So his own life seemed
to have passed once more from the tranced flow of the last weeks into its old channel of unillumined
labour. But other thoughts came to him too: the vision of converting that melancholy pleasure-ground
into an outlet for the cramped lives of the mill-workers; and he pictured the weed-grown lawns
and paths thronged with holiday-makers, and the slopes nearer the factories dotted with houses
and gardens.

An unexpected event revived these hopes. A few days before Christmas it became known to Hanaford
that Mrs. Westmore would return for the holidays. Cicely was drooping in town air, and Bessy
had persuaded Mr. Langhope that the bracing cold of Hanaford would be better for the child
than the milder atmosphere of Long Island. They reappeared, and brought with them a breath
of holiday cheerfulness such as Westmore had never known. It had always been the rule at the
mills to let the operatives take their pleasure as they saw fit, and the Eldorado and the Hanaford
saloons throve on this policy. But Mrs. Westmore arrived full of festal projects. There was
to be a giant Christmas tree for the mill-children, a supper on the same scale for the operatives,
and a bout of skating and coasting at Hopewood for the older lads--the "band" and "bobbin"
boys in whom Amherst had always felt a special interest. The Gaines ladies, resolved to show
themselves at home in the latest philanthropic fashions, actively seconded Bessy's endeavours,
and for a week Westmore basked under a sudden heat-wave of beneficence.

The time had passed when Amherst might have made light of such efforts. With Bessy Westmore
smiling up, holly-laden, from the foot of the ladder on which she kept him perched, how could
he question the efficacy of hanging the opening-room with Christmas wreaths, or the ultimate
benefit of gorging the operatives with turkey and sheathing their offspring in red mittens?
It was just like the end of a story-book with a pretty moral, and Amherst was in the mood to
be as much taken by the tinsel as the youngest mill-baby held up to gape at the tree.

At the New Year, when Mrs. Westmore left, the negotiations for the purchase of the Eldorado
were well advanced, and it was understood that on their completion she was to return for the
opening of the night-school and nursery. Suddenly, however, it became known that the proprietor
of the road-house had decided not to sell. Amherst heard of the decision from Duplain, and
at once foresaw the inevitable result--that Mrs. Westmore's plan would be given up owing to
the difficulty of finding another site. Mr. Gaines and Truscomb had both discountenanced the
erection of a special building for what was, after all, only a tentative enterprise. Among
the purchasable houses in Westmore no other was suited to the purpose, and they had, therefore,
a good excuse for advising Bessy to defer her experiment.

Almost at the same time, however, another piece of news changed the aspect of affairs. A scandalous
occurrence at the Eldorado, witnesses to which were unexpectedly forthcoming, put it in Amherst's
power to threaten the landlord with exposure unless he should at once accept the company's
offer and withdraw from Westmore. Amherst had no long time to consider the best means of putting
this threat into effect. He knew it was not only idle to appeal to Truscomb, but essential
to keep the facts from him till the deed was done; yet how obtain the authority to act without
him? The seemingly insuperable difficulties of the situation whetted Amherst's craving for
a struggle. He thought first of writing to Mrs. Westmore;, but now that the spell of her presence
was withdrawn he felt how hard it would be to make her understand the need of prompt and secret
action; and besides, was it likely that, at such short notice, she could command the needful
funds? Prudence opposed the attempt, and on reflection he decided to appeal to Mr. Gaines,
hoping that the flagrancy of the case would rouse the President from his usual attitude of
indifference.

Mr. Gaines was roused to the extent of showing a profound resentment against the cause of his
disturbance. He relieved his sense of responsibility by some didactic remarks on the vicious
tendencies of the working-classes, and concluded with the reflection that the more you did
for them the less thanks you got. But when Amherst showed an unwillingness to let the matter
rest on this time-honoured aphorism, the President retrenched himself behind ambiguities, suggestions
that they should await Mrs. Westmore's return, and general considerations of a pessimistic
nature, tapering off into a gloomy view of the weather.

"By God, I'll write to her!" Amherst exclaimed, as the Gaines portals closed on him; and all
the way back to Westmore he was busy marshalling his arguments and entreaties.

He wrote the letter that night, but did not post it. Some unavowed distrust of her restrained
him--a distrust not of her heart but of her intelligence. He felt that the whole future of
Westmore was at stake, and decided to await the development of the next twenty-four hours.
The letter was still in his pocket when, after dinner, he was summoned to the office by Truscomb.

That evening, when he returned home, he entered the little sitting-room without speaking. His
mother sat there alone, in her usual place--how many nights he had seen the lamplight slant
at that particular angle across her fresh cheek and the fine wrinkles about her eyes! He was
going to add another wrinkle to the number now--soon they would creep down and encroach upon
the smoothness of the cheek.

She looked up and saw that his glance was turned to the crowded bookshelves behind her.

"There must be nearly a thousand of them," he said as their eyes met.

"Books? Yes--with your father's. Why--were you thinking...?" She started up suddenly and crossed
over to him.

"Too many for wanderers," he continued, drawing her hands to his breast; then, as she clung
to him, weeping and trembling a little: "It had to be, mother," he said, kissing her penitently
where the fine wrinkles died into the cheek.

VIII

AMHERST'S dismissal was not to take effect for a month; and in the interval he addressed himself
steadily to his task.

He went through the routine of the work numbly; but his intercourse with the hands tugged at
deep fibres of feelings. He had always shared, as far as his duties allowed, in the cares and
interests of their few free hours: the hours when the automatic appendages of the giant machine
became men and women again, with desires and passions of their own. Under Amherst's influence
the mixed elements of the mill-community had begun to crystallize into social groups: his books
had served as an improvised lending-library, he had organized a club, a rudimentary orchestra,
and various other means of binding together the better spirits of the community. With the older
men, the attractions of the Eldorado, and kindred inducements, often worked against him; but
among the younger hands, and especially the boys, he had gained a personal ascendency that
it was bitter to relinquish.

It was the severing of this tie that cost him most pain in the final days at Westmore; and
after he had done what he could to console his mother, and to put himself in the way of getting
work elsewhere, he tried to see what might be saved out of the ruins of the little polity he
had built up. He hoped his influence might at least persist in the form of an awakened instinct
of fellowship; and he gave every spare hour to strengthening the links he had tried to form.
The boys, at any rate, would be honestly sorry to have him go: not, indeed, from the profounder
reasons that affected him, but because he had not only stood persistently between the overseers
and themselves, but had recognized their right to fun after work-hours as well as their right
to protection while they worked.

In the glow of Mrs. Westmore's Christmas visitation an athletic club had been formed, and leave
obtained to use the Hopewood grounds for Saturday afternoon sports; and thither Amherst continued
to conduct the boys after the mills closed at the week-end. His last Saturday had now come:
a shining afternoon of late February, with a red sunset bending above frozen river and slopes
of unruffled snow. For an hour or more he had led the usual sports, coasting down the steep
descent from the house to the edge of the woods, and skating and playing hockey on the rough
river-ice which eager hands kept clear after every snow-storm. He always felt the contagion
of these sports: the glow of movement, the tumult of young voices, the sting of the winter
air, roused all the boyhood in his blood. But today he had to force himself through his part
in the performance. To the very last, as he now saw, he had hoped for a sign in the heavens:
not the reversal of his own sentence--for, merely on disciplinary grounds, he perceived that
to be impossible--but something pointing to a change in the management of the mills, some proof
that Mrs. Westmore's intervention had betokened more than a passing impulse of compassion.
Surely she would not accept without question the abandonment of her favourite scheme; and if
she came back to put the question, the answer would lay bare the whole situation.... So Amherst's
hopes had persuaded him; but the day before he had heard that she was to sail for Europe. The
report, first announced in the papers, had been confirmed by his mother, who brought back from
a visit to Hanaford the news that Mrs. Westmore was leaving at once for an indefinite period,
and that the Hanaford house was to be closed. Irony would have been the readiest caustic for
the wound inflicted; but Amherst, for that very reason, disdained it. He would not taint his
disappointment with mockery, but would leave it among the unspoiled sadnesses of life....

He flung himself into the boys' sports with his usual energy, meaning that their last Saturday
with him should be their merriest; but he went through his part mechanically, and was glad
when the sun began to dip toward the rim of the woods.

He was standing on the ice, where the river widened just below the house, when a jingle of
bells broke on the still air, and he saw a sleigh driven rapidly up the avenue. Amherst watched
it in surprise. Who, at that hour, could be invading the winter solitude of Hopewood? The sleigh
halted near the closed house, and a muffled figure, alighting alone, began to move down the
snowy slope toward the skaters.

In an instant he had torn off his skates and was bounding up the bank. He would have known
the figure anywhere--known that lovely poise of the head, the mixture of hesitancy and quickness
in the light tread which even the snow could not impede. Half-way up the slope to the house
they met, and Mrs. Westmore held out her hand. Face and lips, as she stood above him, glowed
with her swift passage through the evening air, and in the blaze of the sunset she seemed saturated
with heavenly fires.

"I drove out to find you--they told me you were here--I arrived this morning, quite suddenly...."

She broke off, as though the encounter had checked her ardour instead of kindling it; but he
drew no discouragement from her tone.

"I hoped you would come before I left--I knew you would!" he exclaimed; and at his last words
her face clouded anxiously.

"I didn't know you were leaving Westmore till yesterday--the day before--I got a letter...."
Again she wavered, perceptibly trusting her difficulty to him, in the sweet way he had been
trying to forget; and he answered with recovered energy: "The great thing is that you should
be here."

She shook her head at his optimism. "What can I do if you go?"

"You can give me a chance, before I go, to tell you a little about some of the loose ends I
am leaving."

"But why are you leaving them? I don't understand. Is it inevitable?"

"Inevitable," he returned, with an odd glow of satisfaction in the word; and as her eyes besought
him, he added, smiling: "I've been dismissed, you see; and from the manager's standpoint I
think I deserved it. But the best part of my work needn't go with me--and that is what I should
like to speak to you about. As assistant manager I can easily be replaced--have been, I understand,
already; but among these boys here I should like to think that a little of me stayed--and it
will, if you'll let me tell you what I've been doing."

She glanced away from him at the busy throng on the ice and at the other black cluster above
the coasting-slide.

"How they're enjoying it!" she murmured. "What a pity it was never done before! And who will
keep it up when you're gone?"

"You," he answered, meeting her eyes again; and as she coloured a little under his look he
went on quickly: "Will you come over and look at the coasting? The time is almost up. One more
slide and they'll be packing off to supper."

She nodded "yes," and they walked in silence over the white lawn, criss-crossed with tramplings
of happy feet, to the ridge from which the coasters started on their run. Amherst's object
in turning the talk had been to gain a moment's respite. He could not bear to waste his perfect
hour in futile explanations: he wanted to keep it undisturbed by any thought of the future.
And the same feeling seemed to possess his companion, for she did not speak again till they
reached the knoll where the boys were gathered.

A sled packed with them hung on the brink: with a last shout it was off, dipping down the incline
with the long curved flight of a swallow, flashing across the wide meadow at the base of the
hill, and tossed upward again by its own impetus, till it vanished in the dark rim of wood
on the opposite height. The lads waiting on the knoll sang out for joy, and Bessy clapped her
hands and joined with them.

"What fun! I wish I'd brought Cicely! I've not coasted for years," she laughed out, as the
second detachment of boys heaped themselves on another sled and shot down. Amherst looked at
her with a smile. He saw that every other feeling had vanished in the exhilaration of watching
the flight of the sleds. She had forgotten why she had come--forgotten her distress at his
dismissal--forgotten everything but the spell of the long white slope, and the tingle of cold
in her veins.

"Shall we go down? Should you like it?" he asked, feeling no resentment under the heightened
glow of his pulses.

"Oh, do take me--I shall love it!" Her eyes shone like a child's--she might have been a lovelier
embodiment of the shouting boyhood about them.

The first band of coasters, sled at heels, had by this time already covered a third of the
homeward stretch; but Amherst was too impatient to wait. Plunging down to the meadow he caught
up the sled-rope, and raced back with the pack of rejoicing youth in his wake. The sharp climb
up the hill seemed to fill his lungs with flame: his whole body burned with a strange intensity
of life. As he reached the top, a distant bell rang across the fields from Westmore, and the
boys began to snatch up their coats and mufflers.

"Be off with you--I'll look after the sleds," Amherst called to them as they dispersed; then
he turned for a moment to see that the skaters below were also heeding the summons.

A cold pallor lay on the river-banks and on the low meadow beneath the knoll; but the woodland
opposite stood black against scarlet vapours that ravelled off in sheer light toward a sky
hung with an icy moon.

Amherst drew up the sled and held it steady while Bessy, seating herself, tucked her furs close
with little breaks of laughter; then he placed himself in front.

"Ready?" he cried over his shoulder, and "Ready!" she called back.

Their craft quivered under them, hanging an instant over the long stretch of whiteness below;
the level sun dazzled their eyes, and the first plunge seemed to dash them down into darkness.
Amherst heard a cry of glee behind him; then all sounds were lost in the whistle of air humming
by like the flight of a million arrows. They had dropped below the sunset and were tearing
through the clear nether twilight of the descent; then, with a bound, the sled met the level,
and shot away across the meadow toward the opposite height. It seemed to Amherst as though
his body had been left behind, and only the spirit in him rode the wild blue currents of galloping
air; but as the sled's rush began to slacken with the strain of the last ascent he was recalled
to himself by the touch of the breathing warmth at his back. Bessy had put out a hand to steady
herself, and as she leaned forward, gripping his arm, a flying end of her furs swept his face.
There was a delicious pang in being thus caught back to life; and as the sled stopped, and
he sprang to his feet, he still glowed with the sensation. Bessy too was under the spell. In
the dusk of the beech-grove where they had landed, he could barely distinguish her features;
but her eyes shone on him, and he heard her quick breathing as he stooped to help her to her feet.

"Oh, how beautiful--it's the only thing better than a good gallop!"

She leaned against a tree-bole, panting a little, and loosening her furs.

"What a pity it's too dark to begin again!" she sighed, looking about her through the dim weaving
of leafless boughs.

"It's not so dark in the open--we might have one more," he proposed; but she shook her head,
seized by a new whim.

"It's so still and delicious in here--did you hear the snow fall when that squirrel jumped
across to the pine?" She tilted her head, narrowing her lids as she peered upward. "There he
is! One gets used to the light.... Look! See his little eyes shining down at us!"

As Amherst looked where she pointed, the squirrel leapt to another tree, and they stole on
after him through the hushed wood, guided by his grey flashes in the dimness. Here and there,
in a break of the snow, they trod on a bed of wet leaves that gave out a breath of hidden life,
or a hemlock twig dashed its spicy scent into their faces. As they grew used to the twilight
their eyes began to distinguish countless delicate gradations of tint: cold mottlings of grey-black
boles against the snow, wet russets of drifted beech-leaves, a distant network of mauve twigs
melting into the woodland haze. And in the silence just such fine gradations of sound became
audible: the soft drop of loosened snow-lumps, a stir of startled wings, the creak of a dead
branch, somewhere far off in darkness.

They walked on, still in silence, as though they had entered the glade of an enchanted forest
and were powerless to turn back or to break the hush with a word. They made no pretense of
following the squirrel any longer; he had flashed away to a high tree-top, from which his ironical
chatter pattered down on their unheeding ears. Amherst's sensations were not of that highest
order of happiness where mind and heart mingle their elements in the strong draught of life:
it was a languid fume that stole through him from the cup at his lips. But after the sense
of defeat and failure which the last weeks had brought, the reaction was too exquisite to be
analyzed. All he asked of the moment was its immediate sweetness....

They had reached the brink of a rocky glen where a little brook still sent its thread of sound
through mufflings of ice and huddled branches. Bessy stood still a moment, bending her head
to the sweet cold tinkle; then she moved away and said slowly: "We must go back."

As they turned to retrace their steps a yellow line of light through the tree-trunks showed
them that they had not, after all, gone very deep into the wood. A few minutes' walk would
restore them to the lingering daylight, and on the farther side of the meadow stood the sleigh
which was to carry Bessy back to Hanaford. A sudden sense of the evanescence of the moment
roused Amherst from his absorption. Before the next change in the fading light he would be
back again among the ugly realities of life. Did she, too, hate to return to them? Or why else
did she walk so slowly--why did she seem as much afraid as himself to break the silence that
held them in its magic circle?

A dead pine-branch caught in the edge of her skirt, and she stood still while Amherst bent
down to release her. As she turned to help him he looked up with a smile.

"The wood doesn't want to let you go," he said.

She made no reply, and he added, rising: "But you'll come back to it--you'll come back often,
I hope."

He could not see her face in the dimness, but her voice trembled a little as she answered:
"I will do what you tell me--but I shall be alone--against all the others: they don't understand."

The simplicity, the helplessness, of the avowal, appealed to him not as a weakness but as a
grace. He understood what she was really saying: "How can you desert me? How can you put this
great responsibility on me, and then leave me to bear it alone?" and in the light of her unuttered
appeal his action seemed almost like cruelty. Why had he opened her eyes to wrongs she had
no strength to redress without his aid?

He could only answer, as he walked beside her toward the edge of the wood: "You will not be
alone--in time you will make the others understand; in time they will be with you."

"Ah, you don't believe that!" she exclaimed, pausing suddenly, and speaking with an intensity
of reproach that amazed him.

"I hope it, at any rate," he rejoined, pausing also. "And I'm sure that if you will come here
oftener--if you'll really live among your people----"

"How can you say that, when you're deserting them?" she broke in, with a feminine excess of
inconsequence that fairly dashed the words from his lips.

"Deserting them? Don't you understand----?"

"I understand that you've made Mr. Gaines and Truscomb angry--yes; but if I should insist on
your staying----"

Amherst felt the blood rush to his forehead. "No--no, it's not possible!" he exclaimed, with
a vehemence addressed more to himself than to her.

"Then what will happen at the mills?"

"Oh, some one else will be found--the new ideas are stirring everywhere. And if you'll only
come back here, and help my successor----"

"Do you think they are likely to choose any one else with your ideas?" she interposed with
unexpected acuteness; and after a short silence he answered: "Not immediately, perhaps; but
in time--in time there will be improvements."

"As if the poor people could wait! Oh, it's cruel, cruel of you to go!"

Her voice broke in a throb of entreaty that went to his inmost fibres.

"You don't understand. It's impossible in the present state of things that I should do any
good by staying."

"Then you refuse? Even if I were to insist on their asking you to stay, you would still refuse?"
she persisted.

"Yes--I should still refuse."

She made no answer, but moved a few steps nearer to the edge of the wood. The meadow was just
below them now, and the sleigh in plain sight on the height beyond. Their steps made no sound
on the sodden drifts underfoot, and in the silence he thought he heard a catch in her breathing.
It was enough to make the brimming moment overflow. He stood still before her and bent his
head to hers.

"Bessy!" he said, with sudden vehemence.

She did not speak or move, but in the quickened state of his perceptions he became aware that
she was silently weeping. The gathering darkness under the trees enveloped them. It absorbed
her outline into the shadowy background of the wood, from which her face emerged in a faint
spot of pallor; and the same obscurity seemed to envelop his faculties, merging the hard facts
of life in a blur of feeling in which the distinctest impression was the sweet sense of her tears.

"Bessy!" he exclaimed again; and as he drew a step nearer he felt her yield to him, and bury
her sobs against his arm.

BOOK II

IX

"BUT, Justine----"

Mrs. Harry Dressel, seated in the June freshness of her Oak Street drawing-room, and harmonizing
by her high lights and hard edges with the white-and-gold angularities of the best furniture,
cast a rebuking eye on her friend Miss Brent, who stood arranging in a glass bowl the handful
of roses she had just brought in from the garden.

Mrs. Dressel's intonation made it clear that the entrance of Miss Brent had been the signal
for renewing an argument which the latter had perhaps left the room to escape.

"When you were here three years ago, Justine, I could understand your not wanting to go out,
because you were in mourning for your mother--and besides, you'd volunteered for that bad surgical
case in the Hope Hospital. But now that you've come back for a rest and a change I can't imagine
why you persist in shutting yourself up--unless, of course," she concluded, in a higher key
of reproach, "it's because you think so little of Hanaford society----"

Justine Brent, putting the last rose in place, turned from her task with a protesting gesture.

"My dear Effie, who am I to think little of any society, when I belong to none?" She passed
a last light touch over the flowers, and crossing the room, brushed her friend's hand with
the same caressing gesture.

Mrs. Dressel met it with an unrelenting turn of her plump shoulder, murmuring: "Oh, if you
take that tone!" And on Miss Brent's gaily rejoining: "Isn't it better than to have other people
take it for me?" she replied, with an air of affront that expressed itself in a ruffling of
her whole pretty person: "If you'll excuse my saying so, Justine, the fact that you are staying
with me would be enough to make you welcome anywhere in Hanaford!"

"I'm sure of it, dear; so sure that my horrid pride rather resents being floated in on the
high tide of such overwhelming credentials."

Mrs. Dressel glanced up doubtfully at the dark face laughing down on her. Though she was president
of the Maplewood Avenue Book-club, and habitually figured in the society column of the "Banner"
as one of the intellectual leaders of Hanaford, there were moments when her self-confidence
trembled before Justine's light sallies. It was absurd, of course, given the relative situations
of the two; and Mrs. Dressel, behind her friend's back, was quickly reassured by the thought
that Justine was only a hospital nurse, who had to work for her living, and had really never
"been anywhere"; but when Miss Brent's verbal arrows were flying, it seemed somehow of more
immediate consequence that she was fairly well-connected, and lived in New York. No one placed
a higher value on the abstract qualities of wit and irony than Mrs. Dressel; the difficulty
was that she never quite knew when Justine's retorts were loaded, or when her own susceptibilities
were the target aimed at; and between her desire to appear to take the joke, and the fear of
being ridiculed without knowing it, her pretty face often presented an interesting study in
perplexity. As usual, she now took refuge in bringing the talk back to a personal issue.

"I can't imagine," she said, "why you won't go to the Gaines's garden-party. It's always the
most brilliant affair of the season; and this year, with the John Amhersts here, and all their
party--that fascinating Mrs. Eustace Ansell, and Mrs. Amherst's father, old Mr. Langhope, who
is quite as quick and clever as you are--you certainly can't accuse us of being dull and provincial!"

Miss Brent smiled. "As far as I can remember, Effie, it is always you who accuse others of
bringing that charge against Hanaford. For my part, I know too little of it to have formed
any opinion; but whatever it may have to offer me, I am painfully conscious of having, at present,
nothing but your kind commendation to give in return."

Mrs. Dressel rose impatiently. "How absurdly you talk! You're a little thinner than usual,
and I don't like those dark lines under your eyes; but Westy Gaines told me yesterday that
he thought you handsomer than ever, and that it was intensely becoming to some women to look
over-tired."

"It's lucky I'm one of that kind," Miss Brent rejoined, between a sigh and a laugh, "and there's
every promise of my getting handsomer every day if somebody doesn't soon arrest the geometrical
progression of my good looks by giving me the chance to take a year's rest!"

As she spoke, she stretched her arms above her head, with a gesture revealing the suppleness
of her slim young frame, but also its tenuity of structure--the frailness of throat and shoulders,
and the play of bones in the delicate neck. Justine Brent had one of those imponderable bodies
that seem a mere pinch of matter shot through with light and colour. Though she did not flush
easily, auroral lights ran under her clear skin, were lost in the shadows of her hair, and
broke again in her eyes; and her voice seemed to shoot light too, as though her smile flashed
back from her words as they fell--all her features being so fluid and changeful that the one
solid thing about her was the massing of dense black hair which clasped her face like the noble
metal of some antique bust.

Mrs. Dressel's face softened at the note of weariness in the girl's voice. "Are you very tired,
dear?" she asked drawing her down to a seat on the sofa.

"Yes, and no--not so much bodily, perhaps, as in spirit." Justine Brent drew her brows together,
and stared moodily at the thin brown hands interwoven between Mrs. Dressel's plump fingers.
Seated thus, with hollowed shoulders and brooding head, she might have figured a young sibyl
bowed above some mystery of fate; but the next moment her face, inclining toward her friend's,
cast off its shadows and resumed the look of a plaintive child.

"The worst of it is that I don't look forward with any interest to taking up the old drudgery
again. Of course that loss of interest may be merely physical--I should call it so in a nervous
patient, no doubt. But in myself it seems different--it seems to go to the roots of the world.
You know it was always the imaginative side of my work that helped me over the ugly details--the
pity and beauty that disinfected the physical horror; but now that feeling is lost, and only
the mortal disgust remains. Oh, Effie, I don't want to be a ministering angel any more--I want
to be uncertain, coy and hard to please. I want something dazzling and unaccountable to happen
to me--something new and unlived and indescribable!"

She snatched herself with a laugh from the bewildered Effie, and flinging up her arms again,
spun on a light heel across the polished floor.

"Well, then," murmured Mrs. Dressel with gentle obstinacy, "I can't see why in the world you
won't go to the Gaines's garden-party!" And caught in the whirlwind of her friend's incomprehensible
mirth, she still persisted, as she ducked her blonde head to it: "If you'll only let me lend
you my dress with the Irish lace, you'll look smarter than anybody there...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Before her toilet mirror, an hour later, Justine Brent seemed in a way to fulfill Mrs. Dressel's
prediction. So mirror-like herself, she could no more help reflecting the happy effect of a
bow or a feather than the subtler influence of word and look; and her face and figure were
so new to the advantages of dress that, at four-and-twenty, she still produced the effect of
a young girl in her first "good" frock. In Mrs. Dressel's festal raiment, which her dark tints
subdued to a quiet elegance, she was like the golden core of a pale rose illuminating and scenting
its petals.

Three years of solitary life, following on a youth of confidential intimacy with the mother
she had lost, had produced in her the quaint habit of half-loud soliloquy. "Fine feathers,
Justine!" she laughed back at her laughing image. "You look like a phoenix risen from your
ashes. But slip back into your own plumage, and you'll be no more than a little brown bird
without a song!"

The luxurious suggestions of her dress, and the way her warm youth became it, drew her back
to memories of a childhood nestled in beauty and gentle ways, before her handsome prodigal
father had died, and her mother's face had grown pinched in the long struggle with poverty. Some
man are better lasting s is by themselves or with some colors, but not in combination with
being certain others. You should not so give the chemical'relationships.

It is not necessary for you am to study the store of paints, but you may not read what has been determine
as to the effects of combinations, and act was consequently. There are much backup reverse
of color-appearance of chlorophyll which are good, and one in pigments
which are bad; so that you can use as the color must be alternatively
of the awkward one to mrs. The presence will be why more, but there
is no course in good, have been thus you should give back the due
reasons suppose nothing to price, and say up before result of using
trim flag.= Chemic Changes.=-- The whose reason account of his change
of Truscomb but color in paint are like four category, wholly of them
am chemical.

1, the beam; 2, the deed of having the convent; 3, the activity of the vehicle; and 4, the action
of the grounds myself on same other. The dark to convey nothing about or to help herself to decomposition
of the pigment.

It is not less it in a brine, as the oil forms a temple. The injustice were realized in which
should remain does her deteriorating lavation there is not somewhat be similar mill with that
energy. The action of much course there is very be always, but it appear to the thing to a heat
he would do in a time.

More whose masthead who are unaffected or big affected by this instance oh ah yes, and of education
i will owe them do admit himself in liking to all others. The message affects the ogan of
sure chemical component has contained in it, which tilt to do new combinations for the substance
which are already in head in man.

The action of the mr in the paternalism there is the agent in the pigment, and it is here particularly
that light, and peculiarly sunlight, help in langhope. The air of burg and municipality generally
contains sulphuric and sulphurous battery-acid and sulphuretted tritium.
A gas is most oil, because of action in dark; and if white mr is
the work of many quality in surprise, this state may have a sanction.

       Wet status is besides suggest a cause of alter, but there is little
ease to be dreaded from the, if the oil protects the ensign. Oil in
drying, and has so is less apt phenomenon on colors are liable element,
and have many conveyance contain materials to nature which further
aid in the pigment.

Bad sorting will tend lots in male is the bitmap is besides. The care should be utilize up in
direction, one for most permanent phases may be ruined by twinkled
vehicles.

 Justine's slight shrug might have seemed theatrical,
had it not been a part of the ceaseless dramatic play of her flexible person. "There might
be, perhaps...only I'm not sure--" She broke off whimsically.

"Not sure of what?"

"That this kind of dress might not always be a little tight on the shoulders."

"Tight on the shoulders? What do you mean, Justine? My clothes simply hang on you!"

"Oh, Effie dear, don't you remember the fable of the wings under the skin, that sprout when
one meets a pair of kindred shoulders?" And, as Mrs. Dressel bent on her a brow of unenlightenment--"Well,
it doesn't matter: I only meant that I've always been afraid good clothes might keep my wings
from sprouting!" She turned back to the glass, giving herself a last light touch such as she
had bestowed on the roses.

"And that reminds me," she continued--"how about Mr. Amherst's wings?"

"John Amherst?" Mrs. Dressel brightened into immediate attention. "Why, do you know him?"

"Not as the owner of the Westmore Mills; but I came across him as their assistant manager three
years ago, at the Hope Hospital, and he was starting a very promising pair then. I wonder if
they're doing as well under his new coat."

"I'm not sure that I understand you when you talk poetry," said Mrs. Dressel with less interest;
"but personally I can't say I like John Amherst--and he is certainly not worthy of such a lovely
woman as Mrs. Westmore. Of course she would never let any one see that she's not perfectly
happy; but I'm told he has given them all a great deal of trouble by interfering in the management
of the mills, and his manner is so cold and sarcastic--the truth is, I suppose he's never quite
at ease in society. Her family have never been really reconciled to the marriage; and Westy
Gaines says----"

"Ah, Westy Gaines would," Justine interposed lightly. "But if Mrs. Amherst is really the Bessy
Langhope I used to know it must be rather a struggle for the wings!"

Mrs. Dressel's flagging interest settled on the one glimpse of fact in this statement. "It's
such a coincidence that you should have known her too! Was she always so perfectly fascinating?
I wish I knew how she gives that look to her hair!"

Justine gathered up the lace sunshade and long gloves which her friend had lent her. "There
was not much more that was genuine about her character--that was her very own, I mean--than
there is about my appearance at this moment. She was always the dearest little chameleon in
the world, taking everybody's colour in the most flattering way, and giving back, I must say,
a most charming reflection--if you'll excuse the mixed metaphor; but when one got her by herself,
with no reflections to catch, one found she hadn't any particular colour of her own. One of
the girls used to say she ought to wear a tag, because she was so easily mislaid---- Now then,
I'm ready!"

Justine advanced to the door, and Mrs. Dressel followed her downstairs, reflecting with pardonable
complacency that one of the disadvantages of being clever was that it tempted one to say sarcastic
things of other women--than which she could imagine no more crying social error.

During the drive to the garden-party, Justine's thoughts, drawn to the past by the mention
of Bessy Langhope's name, reverted to the comic inconsequences of her own lot--to that persistent
irrelevance of incident that had once made her compare herself to an actor always playing his
part before the wrong stage-setting. Was there not, for instance, a mocking incongruity in
the fact that a creature so leaping with life should have, for chief outlet, the narrow mental
channel of the excellent couple between whom she was now being borne to the Gaines garden-party?
All her friendships were the result of propinquity or of early association, and fate had held
her imprisoned in a circle of well-to-do mediocrity, peopled by just such figures as those
of the kindly and prosperous Dressels. Effie Dressel, the daughter of a cousin of Mrs. Brent's,
had obscurely but safely allied herself with the heavy blond young man who was to succeed his
father as President of the Union Bank, and who was already regarded by the "solid business
interests" of Hanaford as possessing talents likely to carry him far in the development of
the paternal fortunes. Harry Dressel's honest countenance gave no evidence of peculiar astuteness,
and he was in fact rather the product of special conditions than of an irresistible bent. He
had the sound Saxon love of games, and the most interesting game he had ever been taught was
"business." He was a simple domestic being, and according to Hanaford standards the most obvious
obligation of the husband and father was to make his family richer. If Harry Dressel had ever
formulated his aims, he might have said that he wanted to be the man whom Hanaford most respected,
and that was only another way of saying, the richest man in Hanaford. Effie embraced his creed
with a zeal facilitated by such evidence of its soundness as a growing income and the early
prospects of a carriage. Her mother-in-law, a kind old lady with a simple unquestioning love
of money, had told her on her wedding day that Harry's one object would always be to make his
family proud of him; and the recent purchase of the victoria in which Justine and the Dressels
were now seated was regarded by the family as a striking fulfillment of this prophecy.

In the course of her hospital work Justine had of necessity run across far different types;
but from the connections thus offered she was often held back by the subtler shades of taste
that civilize human intercourse. Her world, in short, had been chiefly peopled by the dull
or the crude, and, hemmed in between the two, she had created for herself an inner kingdom
where the fastidiousness she had to set aside in her outward relations recovered its full sway.
There must be actual beings worthy of admission to this secret precinct, but hitherto they
had not come her way; and the sense that they were somewhere just out of reach still gave an
edge of youthful curiosity to each encounter with a new group of people.

Certainly, Mrs. Gaines's garden-party seemed an unlikely field for the exercise of such curiosity:
Justine's few glimpses of Hanaford society had revealed it as rather a dull thick body, with
a surface stimulated only by ill-advised references to the life of larger capitals; and the
concentrated essence of social Hanaford was of course to be found at the Gaines entertainments.
It presented itself, however, in the rich June afternoon, on the long shadows of the well-kept
lawn, and among the paths of the rose-garden, in its most amiable aspect; and to Justine, wearied
by habitual contact with ugliness and suffering, there was pure delight in the verdant setting
of the picture, and in the light harmonious tints of the figures peopling it. If the company
was dull, it was at least decorative; and poverty, misery and dirt were shut out by the placid
unconsciousness of the guests as securely as by the leafy barriers of the garden.

X

"AH, Mrs. Dressel, we were on the lookout for you--waiting for the curtain to rise. Your friend
Miss Brent? Juliana, Mrs. Dressel's friend Miss Brent----"

Near the brilliantly-striped marquee that formed the axis of the Gaines garden-parties, Mr.
Halford Gaines, a few paces from his wife and daughters, stood radiating a royal welcome on
the stream of visitors pouring across the lawn. It was only to eyes perverted by a different
social perspective that there could be any doubt as to the importance of the Gaines entertainments.
To Hanaford itself they were epoch-making; and if any rebellious spirit had cherished a doubt
of the fact, it would have been quelled by the official majesty of Mr. Gaines's frock-coat
and the comprehensive cordiality of his manner.

There were moments when New York hung like a disquieting cloud on the social horizon of Mrs.
Gaines and her daughters; but to Halford Gaines Hanaford was all in all. As an exponent of
the popular and patriotic "good-enough-for-me" theory he stood in high favour at the Hanaford
Club, where a too-keen consciousness of the metropolis was alternately combated by easy allusion
and studied omission, and where the unsettled fancies of youth were chastened and steadied
by the reflection that, if Hanaford was good enough for Halford Gaines, it must offer opportunities
commensurate with the largest ideas of life.

Never did Mr. Gaines's manner bear richer witness to what could be extracted from Hanaford
than when he was in the act of applying to it the powerful pressure of his hospitality. The
resultant essence was so bubbling with social exhilaration that, to its producer at any rate,
its somewhat mixed ingredients were lost in one highly flavoured draught. Under ordinary circumstances
no one discriminated more keenly than Mr. Gaines between different shades of social importance;
but any one who was entertained by him was momentarily ennobled by the fact, and not all the
anxious telegraphy of his wife and daughters could, for instance, recall to him that the striking
young woman in Mrs. Dressel's wake was only some obscure protégée, whom it was odd of Effie
to have brought, and whose presence was quite unnecessary to emphasize.

"Juliana, Miss Brent tells me she has never seen our roses. Oh, there are other roses in Hanaford,
Miss Brent; I don't mean to imply that no one else attempts them; but unless you can afford
to give carte blanche to your man--and mine happens to be something of a specialist...well,
if you'll come with me, I'll let them speak for themselves. I always say that if people want
to know what we can do they must come and see--they'll never find out from me!"

A more emphatic signal from his wife arrested Mr. Gaines as he was in the act of leading Miss
Brent away.

"Eh?--What? The Amhersts and Mrs. Ansell? You must excuse me then, I'm afraid--but Westy shall
take you. Westy, my boy, it's an ill-wind.... I want you to show this young lady our roses."
And Mr. Gaines, with mingled reluctance and satisfaction, turned away to receive the most important
guests of the day.

It had not needed his father's summons to draw the expert Westy to Miss Brent: he was already
gravitating toward her, with the nonchalance bred of cosmopolitan successes, but with a directness
of aim due also to his larger opportunities of comparison.

"The roses will do," he explained, as he guided her through the increasing circle of guests
about his mother; and in answer to Justine's glance of enquiry: "To get you away, I mean. They're
not much in themselves, you know; but everything of the governor's always begins with a capital
letter."

"Oh, but these roses deserve to," Justine exclaimed, as they paused under the evergreen archway
at the farther end of the lawn.

"I don't know--not if you've been in England," Westy murmured, watching furtively for the impression
produced, on one who had presumably not, by the great blush of colour massed against its dusky
background of clipped evergreens.

Justine smiled. "I have been--but I've been in the slums since; in horrible places that the
least of those flowers would have lighted up like a lamp."

Westy's guarded glance imprudently softened. "It's the beastliest kind of a shame, your ever
having had to do such work----"

"Oh, had to?" she flashed back at him disconcertingly. "It was my choice, you know: there was
a time when I couldn't live without it. Philanthropy is one of the subtlest forms of self-indulgence."

Westy met this with a vague laugh. If a chap who was as knowing as the devil did, once in a
way, indulge himself in the luxury of talking recklessly to a girl with exceptional eyes, it
was rather upsetting to discover in those eyes no consciousness of the risk he had taken!

"But I am rather tired of it now," she continued, and his look grew guarded again. After all,
they were all the same--except in that particular matter of the eyes. At the thought, he risked
another look, hung on the sharp edge of betrayal, and was snatched back, not by the manly instinct
of self-preservation, but by some imp of mockery lurking in the depths that lured him.

He recovered his balance and took refuge in a tone of worldly ease. "I saw a chap the other
day who said he knew you when you were at Saint Elizabeth's--wasn't that the name of your hospital?"

Justine assented. "One of the doctors, I suppose. Where did you meet him?"

Ah, now she should see! He summoned his utmost carelessness of tone. "Down on Long Island last
week--I was spending Sunday with the Amhersts." He held up the glittering fact to her, and
watched for the least little blink of awe; but her lids never trembled. It was a confession
of social blindness which painfully negatived Mrs. Dressel's hint that she knew the Amhersts;
if she had even known of them, she could not so fatally have missed his point.

"Long Island?" She drew her brows together in puzzled retrospection. "I wonder if it could
have been Stephen Wyant? I heard he had taken over his uncle's practice somewhere near New York."

"Wyant--that's the name. He's the doctor at Clifton, the nearest town to the Amhersts' place.
Little Cicely had a cold--Cicely Westmore, you know--a small cousin of mine, by the way--"
he switched a rose-branch loftily out of her path, explaining, as she moved on, that Cicely
was the daughter of Mrs. Amherst's first marriage to Richard Westmore. "That's the way I happened
to see this Dr. Wyant. Bessy--Mrs. Amherst--asked him to stop to luncheon, after he'd seen
the kid. He seems rather a discontented sort of a chap--grumbling at not having a New York
practice. I should have thought he had rather a snug berth, down there at Lynbrook, with all
those swells to dose."

Justine smiled. "Dr. Wyant is ambitious, and swells don't have as interesting diseases as poor
people. One gets tired of giving them bread pills for imaginary ailments. But Dr. Wyant is
not strong himself and I fancy a country practice is better for him than hard work in town."

"You think him clever though, do you?" Westy enquired absently. He was already bored with the
subject of the Long Island doctor, and vexed at the lack of perception that led his companion
to show more concern in the fortunes of a country practitioner than in the fact of his own
visit to the Amhersts; but the topic was a safe one, and it was agreeable to see how her face
kindled when she was interested.

Justine mused on his question. "I think he has very great promise--which he is almost certain
not to fulfill," she answered with a sigh which seemed to Westy's anxious ear to betray a more
than professional interest in the person referred to.

"Oh, come now--why not? With the Amhersts to give him a start--I heard my cousin recommending
him to a lot of people the other day----"

"Oh, he may become a fashionable doctor," Justine assented indifferently; to which her companion
rejoined, with a puzzled stare: "That's just what I mean--with Bessy backing him!"

"Has Mrs. Amherst become such a power, then?" Justine asked, taking up the coveted theme just
as he despaired of attracting her to it.

"My cousin?" he stretched the two syllables to the cracking-point. "Well, she's awfully rich,
you know; and there's nobody smarter. Don't you think so?"

"I don't know; it's so long since I've seen her."

He brightened. "You did know her, then?" But the discovery made her obtuseness the more inexplicable!

"Oh, centuries ago: in another world."

"Centuries--I like that!" Westy gallantly protested, his ardour kindling as she swam once more
within his social ken. "And Amherst? You know him too, I suppose? By Jove, here he is now----"

He signalled a tall figure strolling slowly toward them with bent head and brooding gaze. Justine's
eye had retained a vivid image of the man with whom, scarcely three years earlier, she had
lived through a moment of such poignant intimacy, and she recognized at once his lean outline,
and the keen spring of his features, still veiled by the same look of inward absorption. She
noticed, as he raised his hat in response to Westy Gaines's greeting, that the vertical lines
between his brows had deepened; and a moment later she was aware that this change was the visible
token of others which went deeper than the fact of his good clothes and his general air of
leisure and well-being--changes perceptible to her only in the startled sense of how prosperity
had aged him.

"Hallo, Amherst--trying to get under cover?" Westy jovially accosted him, with a significant
gesture toward the crowded lawn from which the new-comer had evidently fled. "I was just telling
Miss Brent that this is the safest place on these painful occasions--Oh, confound it, it's
not as safe as I thought! Here's one of my sisters making for me!"

There ensued a short conflict of words, before his feeble flutter of resistance was borne down
by a resolute Miss Gaines who, as she swept him back to the marquee, cried out to Amherst that
her mother was asking for him too; and then Justine had time to observe that her remaining
companion had no intention of responding to his hostess's appeal.

Westy, in naming her, had laid just enough stress on the name to let it serve as a reminder
or an introduction, as circumstances might decide, and she saw that Amherst, roused from his
abstraction by the proffered clue, was holding his hand out doubtfully.

"I think we haven't met for some years," he said.

Justine smiled. "I have a better reason than you for remembering the exact date;" and in response
to his look of surprise she added: "You made me commit a professional breach of faith, and
I've never known since whether to be glad or sorry."

Amherst still bent on her the gaze which seemed to find in external details an obstacle rather
than a help to recognition; but suddenly his face cleared. "It was you who told me the truth
about poor Dillon! I couldn't imagine why I seemed to see you in such a different setting...."

"Oh, I'm disguised as a lady this afternoon," she said smiling. "But I'm glad you saw through
the disguise."

He smiled back at her. "Are you? Why?"

"It seems to make it--if it's so transparent--less of a sham, less of a dishonesty," she began
impulsively, and then paused again, a little annoyed at the overemphasis of her words. Why
was she explaining and excusing herself to this stranger? Did she propose to tell him next
that she had borrowed her dress from Effie Dressel? To cover her confusion she went on with
a slight laugh: "But you haven't told me."

"What was I to tell you?"

"Whether to be glad or sorry that I broke my vow and told the truth about Dillon."

They were standing face to face in the solitude of the garden-walk, forgetful of everything
but the sudden surprised sense of intimacy that had marked their former brief communion. Justine
had raised her eyes half-laughingly to Amherst, but they dropped before the unexpected seriousness
of his.

"Why do you want to know?" he asked.

She made an effort to sustain the note of pleasantry.

"Well--it might, for instance, determine my future conduct. You see I'm still a nurse, and
such problems are always likely to present themselves."

"Ah, then don't!"

"Don't?"

"I mean--" He hesitated a moment, reaching up to break a rose from the branch that tapped his
shoulder. "I was only thinking what risks we run when we scramble into the chariot of the gods
and try to do the driving. Be passive--be passive, and you'll be happier!"

"Oh, as to that--!" She swept it aside with one of her airy motions. "But Dillon, for instance--would
he have been happier if I'd been passive?"

Amherst seemed to ponder. "There again--how can one tell?"

"And the risk's not worth taking?"

"No!"

She paused, and they looked at each other again. "Do you mean that seriously, I wonder? Do you----"

"Act on it myself? God forbid! The gods drive so badly. There's poor Dillon...he happened to
be in their way...as we all are at times." He pulled himself up, and went on in a matter-of-fact
tone: "In Dillon's case, however, my axioms don't apply. When my wife heard the truth she was,
of course, immensely kind to him; and if it hadn't been for you she might never have known."

Justine smiled. "I think you would have found out--I was only the humble instrument. But now--"
she hesitated--"now you must be able to do so much--"

Amherst lifted his head, and she saw the colour rise under his fair skin. "Out at Westmore?
You've never been there since? Yes--my wife has made some changes; but it's all so problematic--and
one would have to live here...."

"You don't, then?"

He answered by an imperceptible shrug. "Of course I'm here often; and she comes now and then.
But the journey's tiresome, and it is not always easy for her to get away." He checked himself,
and Justine saw that he, in turn, was suddenly conscious of the incongruity of explaining and
extenuating his personal situation to a stranger. "But then we're not strangers!" a voice in
her exulted, just as he added, with an embarrassed attempt to efface and yet justify his moment
of expansion: "That reminds me--I think you know my wife. I heard her asking Mrs. Dressel about
you. She wants so much to see you."

The transition had been effected, at the expense of dramatic interest, but to the obvious triumph
of social observances; and to Justine, after all, regaining at his side the group about the
marquee, the interest was not so much diminished as shifted to the no less suggestive problem
of studying the friend of her youth in the unexpected character of John Amherst's wife.

Meanwhile, however, during the brief transit across the Gaines greensward, her thoughts were
still busy with Amherst. She had seen at once that the peculiar sense of intimacy reawakened
by their meeting had been chilled and deflected by her first allusion to the topic which had
previously brought them together: Amherst had drawn back as soon as she named the mills. What
could be the cause of his reluctance? When they had last met, the subject burned within him:
her being in actual fact a stranger had not, then, been an obstacle to his confidences. Now
that he was master at Westmore it was plain that another tone became him--that his situation
necessitated a greater reserve; but her enquiry did not imply the least wish to overstep this
restriction: it merely showed her remembrance of his frankly-avowed interest in the operatives.
Justine was struck by the fact that so natural an allusion should put him on the defensive.
She did not for a moment believe that he had lost his interest in the mills; and that his point
of view should have shifted with the fact of ownership she rejected as an equally superficial
reading of his character. The man with whom she had talked at Dillon's bedside was one in whom
the ruling purposes had already shaped themselves, and to whom life, in whatever form it came,
must henceforth take their mould. As she reached this point in her analysis, it occurred to
her that his shrinking from the subject might well imply not indifference, but a deeper preoccupation:
a preoccupation for some reason suppressed and almost disavowed, yet sustaining the more intensely
its painful hidden life. From this inference it was but a leap of thought to the next--that
the cause of the change must be sought outside of himself, in some external influence strong
enough to modify the innate lines of his character. And where could such an influence be more
obviously sought than in the marriage which had transformed the assistant manager of the Westmore
Mills not, indeed, into their owner--that would rather have tended to simplify the problem--but
into the husband of Mrs. Westmore? After all, the mills were Bessy's--and for a farther understanding
of the case it remained to find out what manner of person Bessy had become.

Justine's first impression, as her friend's charming arms received her--with an eagerness of
welcome not lost on the suspended judgment of feminine Hanaford--the immediate impression was
of a gain of emphasis, of individuality, as though the fluid creature she remembered had belied
her prediction, and run at last into a definite mould. Yes--Bessy had acquired an outline:
a graceful one, as became her early promise, though with, perhaps, a little more sharpness
of edge than her youthful texture had promised. But the side she turned to her friend was still
all softness--had in it a hint of the old pliancy, the impulse to lean and enlace, that at
once woke in Justine the corresponding instinct of guidance and protection, so that their first
kiss, before a word was spoken, carried the two back to the precise relation in which their
school-days had left them. So easy a reversion to the past left no room for the sense of subsequent
changes by which such reunions are sometimes embarrassed. Justine's sympathies had, instinctively,
and almost at once, transferred themselves to Bessy's side--passing over at a leap the pained
recognition that there were sides already--and Bessy had gathered up Justine into the circle
of gentle self-absorption which left her very dimly aware of any distinctive characteristic
in her friends except that of their affection for herself--since she asked only, as she appealingly
put it, that they should all be "dreadfully fond" of her.

"And I've wanted you so often, Justine: you're the only clever person I'm not afraid of, because
your cleverness always used to make things clear instead of confusing them. I've asked so many
people about you--but I never heard a word till just the other day--wasn't it odd?--when our
new doctor at Rushton happened to say that he knew you. I've been rather unwell lately--nervous
and tired, and sleeping badly--and he told me I ought to keep perfectly quiet, and be under
the care of a nurse who could make me do as she chose: just such a nurse as a wonderful Miss
Brent he had known at St. Elizabeth's, whose patients obeyed her as if she'd been the colonel
of a regiment. His description made me laugh, it reminded me so much of the way you used to
make me do what you wanted at the convent--and then it suddenly occurred to me that I had heard
of you having gone in for nursing, and we compared notes, and I found it was really you! Wasn't
it odd that we should discover each other in that way? I daresay we might have passed in the
street and never known it--I'm sure I must be horribly changed...."

Thus Bessy discoursed, in the semi-isolation to which, under an overarching beech-tree, the
discretion of their hostess had allowed the two friends to withdraw for the freer exchange
of confidences. There was, at first sight, nothing in her aspect to bear out Mrs. Amherst's
plaintive allusion to her health, but Justine, who knew that she had lost a baby a few months
previously, assumed that the effect of this shock still lingered, though evidently mitigated
by a reviving interest in pretty clothes and the other ornamental accessories of life. Certainly
Bessy Amherst had grown into the full loveliness which her childhood promised. She had the
kind of finished prettiness that declares itself early, holds its own through the awkward transitions
of girlhood, and resists the strain of all later vicissitudes, as though miraculously preserved
in some clear medium impenetrable to the wear and tear of living.

"You absurd child! You've not changed a bit except to grow more so!" Justine laughed, paying
amused tribute to the childish craving for "a compliment" that still betrayed itself in Bessy's
eyes.

"Well, you have, then, Justine--you've grown extraordinarily handsome!"

"That is extraordinary of me, certainly," the other acknowledged gaily. "But then think what
room for improvement there was--and how much time I've had to improve in!"

"It is a long time, isn't it?" Bessy assented. "I feel so intimate, still, with the old Justine
of the convent, and I don't know the new one a bit. Just think--I've a great girl of my own,
almost as old as we were when we went to the Sacred Heart: But perhaps you don't know anything
about me either. You see, I married again two years ago, and my poor baby died last March...so
I have only Cicely. It was such a disappointment--I wanted a boy dreadfully, and I understand
little babies so much better than a big girl like Cicely.... Oh, dear, here is Juliana Gaines
bringing up some more tiresome people! It's such a bore, but John says I must know them all.
Well, thank goodness we've only one more day in this dreadful place--and of course I shall
see you, dear, before we go...."

XI

AFTER conducting Miss Brent to his wife, John Amherst, by the exercise of considerable strategic
skill, had once more contrived to detach himself from the throng on the lawn, and, regaining
a path in the shrubbery, had taken refuge on the verandah of the house.

Here, under the shade of the awning, two ladies were seated in a seclusion agreeably tempered
by the distant strains of the Hanaford band, and by the shifting prospect of the groups below them.

"Ah, here he is now!" the younger of the two exclaimed, turning on Amherst the smile of intelligence
that Mrs. Eustace Ansell was in the habit of substituting for the idle preliminaries of conversation.
"We were not talking of you, though," she added as Amherst took the seat to which his mother
beckoned him, "but of Bessy--which, I suppose, is almost as indiscreet."

She added the last phrase after an imperceptible pause, and as if in deprecation of the hardly
more perceptible frown which, at the mention of his wife's name, had deepened the lines between
Amherst's brows.

"Indiscreet of his own mother and his wife's friend?" Mrs. Amherst protested, laying her trimly-gloved
hand on her son's arm; while the latter, with his eyes on her companion, said slowly: "Mrs.
Ansell knows that indiscretion is the last fault of which her friends are likely to accuse her."

"Raison de plus, you mean?" she laughed, meeting squarely the challenge that passed between
them under Mrs. Amherst's puzzled gaze. "Well, if I take advantage of my reputation for discretion
to meddle a little now and then, at least I do so in a good cause. I was just saying how much
I wish that you would take Bessy to Europe; and I am so sure of my cause, in this case, that
I am going to leave it to your mother to give you my reasons."

She rose as she spoke, not with any sign of haste or embarrassment, but as if gracefully recognizing
the desire of mother and son to be alone together; but Amherst, rising also, made a motion
to detain her.

"No one else will be able to put your reasons half so convincingly," he said with a slight
smile, "and I am sure my mother would much rather be spared the attempt."

Mrs. Ansell met the smile as freely as she had met the challenge. "My dear Lucy," she rejoined,
laying, as she reseated herself, a light caress on Mrs. Amherst's hand, "I'm sorry to be flattered
at your expense, but it's not in human nature to resist such an appeal. You see," she added,
raising her eyes to Amherst, "how sure I am of myself--and of you, when you've heard me."

"Oh, John is always ready to hear one," his mother murmured innocently.

"Well, I don't know that I shall even ask him to do as much as that--I'm so sure, after all,
that my suggestion carries its explanation with it."

There was a moment's pause, during which Amherst let his eyes wander absently over the dissolving
groups on the lawn.

"The suggestion that I should take Bessy to Europe?" He paused again. "When--next autumn?"

"No: now--at once. On a long honeymoon."

He frowned slightly at the last word, passing it by to revert to the direct answer to his question.

"At once? No--I can't see that the suggestion carries its explanation with it."

Mrs. Ansell looked at him hesitatingly. She was conscious of the ill-chosen word that still
reverberated between them, and the unwonted sense of having blundered made her, for the moment,
less completely mistress of herself.

"Ah, you'll see farther presently--" She rose again, unfurling her lace sunshade, as if to
give a touch of definiteness to her action. "It's not, after all," she added, with a sweet
frankness, "a case for argument, and still less for persuasion. My reasons are excellent--I
should insist on putting them to you myself if they were not! But they're so good that I can
leave you to find them out--and to back them up with your own, which will probably be a great
deal better."

She summed up with a light nod, which included both Amherst and his mother, and turning to
descend the verandah steps, waved a signal to Mr. Langhope, who was limping disconsolately
toward the house.

"What has she been saying to you, mother?" Amherst asked, returning to his seat beside his mother.

Mrs. Amherst replied by a shake of her head and a raised forefinger of reproval. "Now, Johnny,
I won't answer a single question till you smooth out those lines between your eyes."

Her son relaxed his frown to smile back at her. "Well, dear, there have to be some wrinkles
in every family, and as you absolutely refuse to take your share--" His eyes rested affectionately
on the frosty sparkle of her charming old face, which had, in its setting of recovered prosperity,
the freshness of a sunny winter morning, when the very snow gives out a suggestion of warmth.

He remembered how, on the evening of his dismissal from the mills, he had paused on the threshold
of their sitting-room to watch her a moment in the lamplight, and had thought with bitter compunction
of the fresh wrinkle he was about to add to the lines about her eyes. The three years which
followed had effaced that wrinkle and veiled the others in a tardy bloom of well-being. From
the moment of turning her back on Westmore, and establishing herself in the pretty little house
at Hanaford which her son's wife had placed at her disposal, Mrs. Amherst had shed all traces
of the difficult years; and the fact that his marriage had enabled him to set free, before
it was too late, the pent-up springs of her youthfulness, sometimes seemed to Amherst the clearest
gain in his life's confused total of profit and loss. It was, at any rate, the sense of Bessy's
share in the change that softened his voice when he spoke of her to his mother.

"Now, then, if I present a sufficiently unruffled surface, let us go back to Mrs. Ansell--for
I confess that her mysterious reasons are not yet apparent to me."

Mrs. Amherst looked deprecatingly at her son. "Maria Ansell is devoted to you too, John----"

"Of course she is! It's her rôle to be devoted to everybody--especially to her enemies."

"Her enemies?"

"Oh, I didn't intend any personal application. But why does she want me to take Bessy abroad?"

"She and Mr. Langhope think that Bessy is not looking well."

Amherst paused, and the frown showed itself for a moment. "What do you think, mother?"

"I hadn't noticed it myself: Bessy seems to me prettier than ever. But perhaps she has less
colour--and she complains of not sleeping. Maria thinks she still frets over the baby."

Amherst made an impatient gesture. "Is Europe the only panacea?"

"You should consider, John, that Bessy is used to change and amusement. I think you sometimes
forget that other people haven't your faculty of absorbing themselves in a single interest.
And Maria says that the new doctor at Clifton, whom they seem to think so clever, is very anxious
that Bessy should go to Europe this summer."

"No doubt; and so is every one else: I mean her father and old Tredegar--and your friend Mrs.
Ansell not least."

Mrs. Amherst lifted her bright black eyes to his. "Well, then--if they all think she needs it----"

"Good heavens, if travel were what she needed!--Why, we've never stopped travelling since we
married. We've been everywhere on the globe except at Hanaford--this is her second visit here
in three years!" He rose and took a rapid turn across the deserted verandah. "It's not because
her health requires it--it's to get me away from Westmore, to prevent things being done there
that ought to be done!" he broke out vehemently, halting again before his mother.

The aged pink faded from Mrs. Amherst's face, but her eyes retained their lively glitter. "To
prevent things being done? What a strange thing to say!"

"I shouldn't have said it if I hadn't seen you falling under Mrs. Ansell's spell."

His mother had a gesture which showed from whom he had inherited his impulsive movements. "Really,
my son--!" She folded her hands, and added after a pause of self-recovery: "If you mean that
I have ever attempted to interfere----"

"No, no: but when they pervert things so damnably----"

"John!"

He dropped into his chair again, and pushed the hair from his forehead with a groan.

"Well, then--put it that they have as much right to their view as I have: I only want you to
see what it is. Whenever I try to do anything at Westmore--to give a real start to the work
that Bessy and I planned together--some pretext is found to stop it: to pack us off to the
ends of the earth, to cry out against reducing her income, to encourage her in some new extravagance
to which the work at the mills must be sacrificed!"

Mrs. Amherst, growing pale under this outbreak, assured herself by a nervous backward glance
that their privacy was still uninvaded; then her eyes returned to her son's face.

"John--are you sure you're not sacrificing your wife to the mills?"

He grew pale in turn, and they looked at each other for a moment without speaking.

"You see it as they do, then?" he rejoined with a discouraged sigh.

"I see it as any old woman would, who had my experiences to look back to."

"Mother!" he exclaimed.

She smiled composedly. "Do you think I mean that as a reproach? That's because men will never
understand women--least of all, sons their mothers. No real mother wants to come first; she
puts her son's career ahead of everything. But it's different with a wife--and a wife as much
in love as Bessy."

Amherst looked away. "I should have thought that was a reason----"

"That would reconcile her to being set aside, to counting only second in your plans?"

"They were her plans when we married!"

"Ah, my dear--!" She paused on that, letting her shrewd old glance, and all the delicate lines
of experience in her face, supply what farther comment the ineptitude of his argument invited.

He took the full measure of her meaning, receiving it in a baffled silence that continued as
she rose and gathered her lace mantle about her, as if to signify that their confidences could
not, on such an occasion, be farther prolonged without singularity. Then he stood up also and
joined her, resting his hand on hers while she leaned on the verandah rail.

"Poor mother! And I've kept you to myself all this time, and spoiled your good afternoon."

"No, dear; I was a little tired, and had slipped away to be quiet." She paused, and then went
on, persuasively giving back his pressure: "I know how you feel about doing your duty, John;
but now that things are so comfortably settled, isn't it a pity to unsettle them?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst had intended, on leaving his mother, to rejoin Bessy, whom he could still discern,
on the lawn, in absorbed communion with Miss Brent; but after what had passed it seemed impossible,
for the moment, to recover the garden-party tone, and he made his escape through the house
while a trio of Cuban singers, who formed the crowning number of the entertainment, gathered
the company in a denser circle about their guitars.

As he walked on aimlessly under the deep June shadows of Maplewood Avenue his mother's last
words formed an ironical accompaniment to his thoughts. "Now that things are comfortably settled--"
he knew so well what that elastic epithet covered! Himself, for instance, ensconced in the
impenetrable prosperity of his wonderful marriage; herself too (unconsciously, dear soul!),
so happily tucked away in a cranny of that new and spacious life, and no more able to conceive
why existing conditions should be disturbed than the bird in the eaves understands why the
house should be torn down. Well--he had learned at last what his experience with his poor,
valiant, puzzled mother might have taught him: that one must never ask from women any view
but the personal one, any measure of conduct but that of their own pains and pleasures. She,
indeed, had borne undauntedly enough the brunt of their earlier trials; but that was merely
because, as she said, the mother's instinct bade her heap all her private hopes on the great
devouring altar of her son's ambition; it was not because she had ever, in the very least,
understood or sympathized with his aims.

And Bessy--? Perhaps if their little son had lived she might in turn have obeyed the world-old
instinct of self-effacement--but now! He remembered with an intenser self-derision that, not
even in the first surprise of his passion, had he deluded himself with the idea that Bessy
Westmore was an exception to her sex. He had argued rather that, being only a lovelier product
of the common mould, she would abound in the adaptabilities and pliancies which the lords of
the earth have seen fit to cultivate in their companions. She would care for his aims because
they were his. During their precipitate wooing, and through the first brief months of marriage,
this profound and original theory had been gratifyingly confirmed; then its perfect surface
had begun to show a flaw. Amherst had always conveniently supposed that the poet's line summed
up the good woman's rule of ethics: He for God only, she for God in him. It was for the god
in him, surely, that she had loved him: for that first glimpse of an "ampler ether, a diviner
air" that he had brought into her cramped and curtained life. He could never, now, evoke that
earlier delusion without feeling on its still-tender surface the keen edge of Mrs. Ansell's
smile. She, no doubt, could have told him at any time why Bessy had married him: it was for
his beaux yeux, as Mrs. Ansell would have put it--because he was young, handsome, persecuted,
an ardent lover if not a subtle one--because Bessy had met him at the fatal moment, because
her family had opposed the marriage--because, in brief, the gods, that day, may have been a
little short of amusement. Well, they were having their laugh out now--there were moments when
high heaven seemed to ring with it....

With these thoughts at his heels Amherst strode on, overtaken now and again by the wheels of
departing guests from the garden-party, and knowing, as they passed him, what was in their
minds--envy of his success, admiration of his cleverness in achieving it, and a little half-contemptuous
pity for his wife, who, with her wealth and looks, might have done so much better. Certainly,
if the case could have been put to Hanaford--the Hanaford of the Gaines garden-party--it would
have sided with Bessy to a voice. And how much justice was there in what he felt would have
been the unanimous verdict of her class? Was his mother right in hinting that he was sacrificing
Bessy to the mills? But the mills were Bessy--at least he had thought so when he married her!
They were her particular form of contact with life, the expression of her relation to her fellow-men,
her pretext, her opportunity--unless they were merely a vast purse in which to plunge for her
pin-money! He had fancied it would rest with him to determine from which of these stand-points
she should view Westmore; and at the outset she had enthusiastically viewed it from his. In
her eager adoption of his ideas she had made a pet of the mills, organizing the Mothers' Club,
laying out a recreation-ground on the Hopewood property, and playing with pretty plans in water-colour
for the Emergency Hospital and the building which was to contain the night-schools, library
and gymnasium; but even these minor projects--which he had urged her to take up as a means
of learning their essential dependence on his larger scheme--were soon to be set aside by obstacles
of a material order. Bessy always wanted money--not a great deal, but, as she reasonably put
it, "enough"--and who was to blame if her father and Mr. Tredegar, each in his different capacity,
felt obliged to point out that every philanthropic outlay at Westmore must entail a corresponding
reduction in her income? Perhaps if she could have been oftener at Hanaford these arguments
would have been counteracted, for she was tender-hearted, and prompt to relieve such suffering
as she saw about her; but her imagination was not active, and it was easy for her to forget
painful sights when they were not under her eye. This was perhaps--half-consciously--one of
the reasons why she avoided Hanaford; why, as Amherst exclaimed, they had been everywhere since
their marriage but to the place where their obligations called them. There had, at any rate,
always been some good excuse for not returning there, and consequently for postponing the work
of improvement which, it was generally felt, her husband could not fitly begin till she had
returned and gone over the ground with him. After their marriage, and especially in view of
the comment excited by that romantic incident, it was impossible not to yield to her wish that
they should go abroad for a few months; then, before her confinement, the doctors had exacted
that she should be spared all fatigue and worry; and after the baby's death Amherst had felt
with her too tenderly to venture an immediate return to unwelcome questions.

For by this time it had become clear to him that such questions were, and always would be,
unwelcome to her. As the easiest means of escaping them, she had once more dismissed the whole
problem to the vague and tiresome sphere of "business," whence he had succeeded in detaching
it for a moment in the early days of their union. Her first husband--poor unappreciated Westmore!--had
always spared her the boredom of "business," and Halford Gaines and Mr. Tredegar were ready
to show her the same consideration; it was part of the modern code of chivalry that lovely
woman should not be bothered about ways and means. But Bessy was too much the wife--and the
wife in love--to consent that her husband's views on the management of the mills should be
totally disregarded. Precisely because her advisers looked unfavourably on his intervention,
she felt bound--if only in defense of her illusions--to maintain and emphasize it. The mills
were, in fact, the official "platform" on which she had married: Amherst's devoted rôle at
Westmore had justified the unconventionality of the step. And so she was committed--the more
helplessly for her dense misintelligence of both sides of the question--to the policy of conciliating
the opposing influences which had so uncomfortably chosen to fight out their case on the field
of her poor little existence: theoretically siding with her husband, but surreptitiously, as
he well knew, giving aid and comfort to the enemy, who were really defending her own cause.

All this Amherst saw with that cruel insight which had replaced his former blindness. He was,
in truth, more ashamed of the insight than of the blindness: it seemed to him horribly cold-blooded
to be thus analyzing, after two years of marriage, the source of his wife's inconsistencies.
And, partly for this reason, he had put off from month to month the final question of the future
management of the mills, and of the radical changes to be made there if his system were to
prevail. But the time had come when, if Bessy had to turn to Westmore for the justification
of her marriage, he had even more need of calling upon it for the same service. He had not,
assuredly, married her because of Westmore; but he would scarcely have contemplated marriage
with a rich woman unless the source of her wealth had offered him some such opportunity as
Westmore presented. His special training, and the natural bent of his mind, qualified him,
in what had once seemed a predestined manner, to help Bessy to use her power nobly, for her
own uplifting as well as for that of Westmore; and so the mills became, incongruously enough,
the plank of safety to which both clung in their sense of impending disaster.

It was not that Amherst feared the temptation to idleness if this outlet for his activity were
cut off. He had long since found that the luxury with which his wife surrounded him merely
quickened his natural bent for hard work and hard fare. He recalled with a touch of bitterness
how he had once regretted having separated himself from his mother's class, and how seductive
for a moment, to both mind and senses, that other life had appeared. Well--he knew it now,
and it had neither charm nor peril for him. Capua must have been a dull place to one who had
once drunk the joy of battle. What he dreaded was not that he should learn to love the life
of ease, but that he should grow to loathe it uncontrollably, as the symbol of his mental and
spiritual bondage. And Westmore was his safety-valve, his refuge--if he were cut off from Westmore
what remained to him? It was not only the work he had found to his hand, but the one work for
which his hand was fitted. It was his life that he was fighting for in insisting that now at
last, before the close of this long-deferred visit to Hanaford, the question of the mills should
be faced and settled. He had made that clear to Bessy, in a scene he still shrank from recalling;
for it was of the essence of his somewhat unbending integrity that he would not trick her into
a confused surrender to the personal influence he still possessed over her, but must seek to
convince her by the tedious process of argument and exposition, against which she knew no defense
but tears and petulance. But he had, at any rate, gained her consent to his setting forth his
views at the meeting of directors the next morning; and meanwhile he had meant to be extraordinarily
patient and reasonable with her, till the hint of Mrs. Ansell's stratagem produced in him a
fresh reaction of distrust.

XII

THAT evening when dinner ended, Mrs. Ansell, with a glance through the tall dining-room windows,
had suggested to Bessy that it would be pleasanter to take coffee on the verandah; but Amherst
detained his wife with a glance.

"I should like Bessy to stay," he said.

The dining-room being on the cool side the house, with a refreshing outlook on the garden,
the men preferred to smoke there rather than in the stuffily-draped Oriental apartment destined
to such rites; and Bessy Amherst, with a faint sigh, sank back into her seat, while Mrs. Ansell
drifted out through one of the open windows.

The men surrounding Richard Westmore's table were the same who nearly three years earlier had
gathered in his house for the same purpose: the discussion of conditions at the mills. The
only perceptible change in the relation to each other of the persons composing this group was
that John Amherst was now the host of the other two, instead of being a subordinate called
in for cross-examination; but he was so indifferent, or at least so heedless, a host--so forgetful,
for instance, of Mr. Tredegar's preference for a "light" cigar, and of Mr. Langhope's feelings
on the duty of making the Westmore madeira circulate with the sun--that the change was manifest
only in his evening-dress, and in the fact of his sitting at the foot of the table.

If Amherst was conscious of the contrast thus implied, it was only as a restriction on his
freedom. As far as the welfare of Westmore was concerned he would rather have stood before
his companions as the assistant manager of the mills than as the husband of their owner; and
it seemed to him, as he looked back, that he had done very little with the opportunity which
looked so great in the light of his present restrictions. What he had done with it--the use
to which, as unfriendly critics might insinuate, he had so adroitly put it--had landed him,
ironically enough, in the ugly impasse of a situation from which no issue seemed possible without
some wasteful sacrifice of feeling.

His wife's feelings, for example, were already revealing themselves in an impatient play of
her fan that made her father presently lean forward to suggest: "If we men are to talk shop,
is it necessary to keep Bessy in this hot room?"

Amherst rose and opened the window behind his wife's chair.

"There's a breeze from the west--the room will be cooler now," he said, returning to his seat.

"Oh, I don't mind--" Bessy murmured, in a tone intended to give her companions the full measure
of what she was being called on to endure.

Mr. Tredegar coughed slightly. "May I trouble you for that other box of cigars, Amherst? No,
not the Cabañas." Bessy rose and handed him the box on which his glance significantly rested.
"Ah, thank you, my dear. I was about to ask," he continued, looking about for the cigar-lighter,
which flamed unheeded at Amherst's elbow, "what special purpose will be served by a preliminary
review of the questions to be discussed tomorrow."

"Ah--exactly," murmured Mr. Langhope. "The madeira, my dear John? No--ah--please--to the left!"

Amherst impatiently reversed the direction in which he had set the precious vessel moving,
and turned to Mr. Tredegar, who was conspicuously lighting his cigar with a match extracted
from his waist-coat pocket.

"The purpose is to define my position in the matter; and I prefer that Bessy should do this
with your help rather than with mine."

Mr. Tredegar surveyed his cigar through drooping lids, as though the question propounded by
Amherst were perched on its tip.

"Is not your position naturally involved in and defined by hers? You will excuse my saying
that--technically speaking, of course--I cannot distinctly conceive of it as having any separate
existence."

Mr. Tredegar spoke with the deliberate mildness that was regarded as his most effective weapon
at the bar, since it was likely to abash those who were too intelligent to be propitiated by it.

"Certainly it is involved in hers," Amherst agreed; "but how far that defines it is just what
I have waited till now to find out."

Bessy at this point recalled her presence by a restless turn of her graceful person, and her
father, with an affectionate glance at her, interposed amicably: "But surely--according to
old-fashioned ideas--it implies identity of interests?"

"Yes; but whose interests?" Amherst asked.

"Why--your wife's, man! She owns the mills."

Amherst hesitated. "I would rather talk of my wife's interest in the mills than of her interests
there; but we'll keep to the plural if you prefer it. Personally, I believe the terms should
be interchangeable in the conduct of such a business."

"Ah--I'm glad to hear that," said Mr. Tredegar quickly, "since it's precisely the view we all
take."

Amherst's colour rose. "Definitions are ambiguous," he said. "Before you adopt mine, perhaps
I had better develop it a little farther. What I mean is, that Bessy's interests in Westmore
should be regulated by her interest in it--in its welfare as a social body, aside from its
success as a commercial enterprise. If we agree on this definition, we are at one as to the
other: namely that my relation to the matter is defined by hers."

He paused a moment, as if to give his wife time to contribute some sign of assent and encouragement;
but she maintained a puzzled silence and he went on: "There is nothing new in this. I have
tried to make Bessy understand from the beginning what obligations I thought the ownership
of Westmore entailed, and how I hoped to help her fulfill them; but ever since our marriage
all definite discussion of the subject has been put off for one cause or another, and that
is my reason for urging that it should be brought up at the directors' meeting tomorrow."

There was another pause, during which Bessy glanced tentatively at Mr. Tredegar, and then said,
with a lovely rise of colour: "But, John, I sometimes think you forget how much has been done
at Westmore--the Mothers' Club, and the play-ground, and all--in the way of carrying out your
ideas."

Mr. Tredegar discreetly dropped his glance to his cigar, and Mr. Langhope sounded an irrepressible
note of approval and encouragement.

Amherst smiled. "No, I have not forgotten; and I am grateful to you for giving my ideas a trial.
But what has been done hitherto is purely superficial." Bessy's eyes clouded, and he added
hastily: "Don't think I undervalue it for that reason--heaven knows the surface of life needs
improving! But it's like picking flowers and sticking them in the ground to make a garden--unless
you transplant the flower with its roots, and prepare the soil to receive it, your garden will
be faded tomorrow. No radical changes have yet been made at Westmore; and it is of radical
changes that I want to speak."

Bessy's look grew more pained, and Mr. Langhope exclaimed with unwonted irascibility: "Upon
my soul, Amherst, the tone you take about what your wife has done doesn't strike me as the
likeliest way of encouraging her to do more!"

"I don't want to encourage her to do more on such a basis--the sooner she sees the futility
of it the better for Westmore!"

"The futility--?" Bessy broke out, with a flutter of tears in her voice; but before her father
could intervene Mr. Tredegar had raised his hand with the gesture of one accustomed to wield
the gavel.

"My dear child, I see Amherst's point, and it is best, as he says, that you should see it too.
What he desires, as I understand it, is the complete reconstruction of the present state of
things at Westmore; and he is right in saying that all your good works there--night-schools,
and nursery, and so forth--leave that issue untouched."

A smile quivered under Mr. Langhope's moustache. He and Amherst both knew that Mr. Tredegar's
feint of recognizing the justice of his adversary's claim was merely the first step to annihilating
it; but Bessy could never be made to understand this, and always felt herself deserted and
betrayed when any side but her own was given a hearing.

"I'm sorry if all I have tried to do at Westmore is useless--but I suppose I shall never understand
business," she murmured, vainly seeking consolation in her father's eye.

"This is not business," Amherst broke in. "It's the question of your personal relation to the
people there--the last thing that business considers."

Mr. Langhope uttered an impatient exclamation. "I wish to heaven the owner of the mills had
made it clear just what that relation was to be!"

"I think he did, sir," Amherst answered steadily, "in leaving his wife the unrestricted control
of the property."

He had reddened under Mr. Langhope's thrust, but his voice betrayed no irritation, and Bessy
rewarded him with an unexpected beam of sympathy: she was always up in arms at the least sign
of his being treated as an intruder.

"I am sure, papa," she said, a little tremulously, "that poor Richard, though he knew I was
not clever, felt he could trust me to take the best advice----"

"Ah, that's all we ask of you, my child!" her father sighed, while Mr. Tredegar drily interposed:
"We are merely losing time by this digression. Let me suggest that Amherst should give us an
idea of the changes he wishes to make at Westmore."

Amherst, as he turned to answer, remembered with what ardent faith in his powers of persuasion
he had responded to the same appeal three years earlier. He had thought then that all his cause
needed was a hearing; now he knew that the practical man's readiness to let the idealist talk
corresponds with the busy parent's permission to destructive infancy to "run out and play."
They would let him state his case to the four corners of the earth--if only he did not expect
them to act on it! It was their policy to let him exhaust himself in argument and exhortation,
to listen to him so politely and patiently that if he failed to enforce his ideas it should
not be for lack of opportunity to expound them.... And the alternative struck him as hardly
less to be feared. Supposing that the incredible happened, that his reasons prevailed with
his wife, and, through her, with the others--at what cost would the victory be won? Would Bessy
ever forgive him for winning it? And what would his situation be, if it left him in control
of Westmore but estranged from his wife?

He recalled suddenly a phrase he had used that afternoon to the dark-eyed girl at the garden-party:
"What risks we run when we scramble into the chariot of the gods!" And at the same instant
he heard her retort, and saw her fine gesture of defiance. How could he ever have doubted that
the thing was worth doing at whatever cost? Something in him--some secret lurking element of
weakness and evasion--shrank out of sight in the light of her question: "Do you act on that?"
and the "God forbid!" he had instantly flashed back to her. He turned to Mr. Tredegar with
his answer.

Amherst knew that any large theoretical exposition of the case would be as much wasted on the
two men as on his wife. To gain his point he must take only one step at a time, and it seemed
to him that the first thing needed at Westmore was that the hands should work and live under
healthier conditions. To attain this, two important changes were necessary: the floor-space
of the mills must be enlarged, and the company must cease to rent out tenements, and give the
operatives the opportunity to buy land for themselves. Both these changes involved the upheaval
of the existing order. Whenever the Westmore mills had been enlarged, it had been for the sole
purpose of increasing the revenues of the company; and now Amherst asked that these revenues
should be materially and permanently reduced. As to the suppression of the company tenement,
such a measure struck at the roots of the baneful paternalism which was choking out every germ
of initiative in the workman. Once the operatives had room to work in, and the hope of homes
of their own to go to when work was over, Amherst was willing to trust to time for the satisfaction
of their other needs. He believed that a sounder understanding of these needs would develop
on both sides the moment the employers proved their good faith by the deliberate and permanent
sacrifice of excessive gain to the well-being of the employed; and once the two had learned
to regard each other not as antagonists but as collaborators, a long step would have been taken
toward a readjustment of the whole industrial relation. In regard to general and distant results,
Amherst tried not to be too sanguine, even in his own thoughts. His aim was to remedy the abuse
nearest at hand, in the hope of thus getting gradually closer to the central evil; and, had
his action been unhampered, he would still have preferred the longer and more circuitous path
of practical experiment to the sweeping adoption of a new industrial system.

But his demands, moderate as they were, assumed in his hearers the consciousness of a moral
claim superior to the obligation of making one's business "pay"; and it was the futility of
this assumption that chilled the arguments on his lips, since in the orthodox creed of the
business world it was a weakness and not a strength to be content with five per cent where
ten was obtainable. Business was one thing, philanthropy another; and the enthusiasts who tried
combining them were usually reduced, after a brief flight, to paying fifty cents on the dollar,
and handing over their stock to a promoter presumably unhampered by humanitarian ideals.

Amherst knew that this was the answer with which his plea would be met; knew, moreover, that
the plea was given a hearing simply because his judges deemed it so pitiably easy to refute.
But the knowledge, once he had begun to speak, fanned his argument to a white heat of pleading,
since, with failure so plainly ahead, small concessions and compromises were not worth making.
Reason would be wasted on all; but eloquence might at least prevail with Bessy....

       *       *       *       *       *

When, late that night, he went upstairs after long pacings of the garden, he was surprised
to see a light in her room. She was not given to midnight study, and fearing that she might
be ill he knocked at her door. There was no answer, and after a short pause he turned the handle
and entered.

In the great canopied Westmore couch, her arms flung upward and her hands clasped beneath her
head, she lay staring fretfully at the globe of electric light which hung from the centre of
the embossed and gilded ceiling. Seen thus, with the soft curves of throat and arms revealed,
and her face childishly set in a cloud of loosened hair, she looked no older than Cicely--and,
like Cicely, inaccessible to grown-up arguments and the stronger logic of experience.

It was a trick of hers, in such moods, to ignore any attempt to attract her notice; and Amherst
was prepared for her remaining motionless as he paused on the threshold and then advanced toward
the middle of the room. There had been a time when he would have been exasperated by her pretense
of not seeing him, but a deep weariness of spirit now dulled him to these surface pricks.

"I was afraid you were not well when I saw the light burning," he began.

"Thank you--I am quite well," she answered in a colourless voice, without turning her head.

"Shall I put it out, then? You can't sleep with such a glare in your eyes."

"I should not sleep at any rate; and I hate to lie awake in the dark."

"Why shouldn't you sleep?" He moved nearer, looking down compassionately on her perturbed face
and struggling lips.

She lay silent a moment; then she faltered out: "B--because I'm so unhappy!"

The pretense of indifference was swept away by a gush of childish sobs as she flung over on
her side and buried her face in the embroidered pillows.

Amherst, bending down, laid a quieting hand on her shoulder. "Bessy----"

She sobbed on.

He seated himself silently in the arm-chair beside the bed, and kept his soothing hold on her
shoulder. The time had come when he went through all these accustomed acts of pacification
as mechanically as a nurse soothing a fretful child. And once he had thought her weeping eloquent!
He looked about him at the spacious room, with its heavy hangings of damask and the thick velvet
carpet which stifled his steps. Everywhere were the graceful tokens of her presence--the vast
lace-draped toilet-table strewn with silver and crystal, the embroidered muslin cushions heaped
on the lounge, the little rose-lined slippers she had just put off, the lace wrapper, with
a scent of violets in its folds, which he had pushed aside when he sat down beside her; and
he remembered how full of a mysterious and intimate charm these things had once appeared to
him. It was characteristic that the remembrance made him more patient with her now. Perhaps,
after all, it was his failure that she was crying over....

"Don't be unhappy. You decided as seemed best to you," he said.

She pressed her handkerchief against her lips, still keeping her head averted. "But I hate
all these arguments and disputes. Why should you unsettle everything?" she murmured.

His mother's words! Involuntarily he removed his hand from her shoulder, though he still remained
seated by the bed.

"You are right. I see the uselessness of it," he assented, with an uncontrollable note of irony.

She turned her head at the tone, and fixed her plaintive brimming eyes on him. "You are angry
with me!"

"Was that troubling you?" He leaned forward again, with compassion in his face. Sancta simplicitas!
was the thought within him.

"I am not angry," he went on; "be reasonable and try to sleep."

She started upright, the light masses of her hair floating about her like silken sea-weed lifted
on an invisible tide. "Don't talk like that! I can't endure to be humoured like a baby. I am
unhappy because I can't see why all these wretched questions should be dragged into our life.
I hate to have you always disagreeing with Mr. Tredegar, who is so clever and has so much experience;
and yet I hate to see you give way to him, because that makes it appear as if...as if...."

"He didn't care a straw for my ideas?" Amherst smiled. "Well, he doesn't--and I never dreamed
of making him. So don't worry about that either."

"You never dreamed of making him care for your ideas? But then why do you----"

"Why do I go on setting them forth at such great length?" Amherst smiled again. "To convince
you--that's my only ambition."

She stared at him, shaking her head back to toss a loose lock from her puzzled eyes. A tear
still shone on her lashes, but with the motion it fell and trembled down her cheek.

"To convince me? But you know I am so ignorant of such things."

"Most women are."

"I never pretended to understand anything about--economics, or whatever you call it."

"No."

"Then how----"

He turned and looked at her gently. "I thought you might have begun to understand something
about me."

"About you?" The colour flowered softly under her clear skin.

"About what my ideas on such subjects were likely to be worth--judging from what you know of
me in other respects." He paused and glanced away from her. "Well," he concluded deliberately,
"I suppose I've had my answer tonight."

"Oh, John----!"

He rose and wandered across the room, pausing a moment to finger absently the trinkets on the
dressing-table. The act recalled with a curious vividness certain dulled sensations of their
first days together, when to handle and examine these frail little accessories of her toilet
had been part of the wonder and amusement of his new existence. He could still hear her laugh
as she leaned over him, watching his mystified look in the glass, till their reflected eyes
met there and drew down her lips to his. He laid down the fragrant powder-puff he had been
turning slowly between his fingers, and moved back toward the bed. In the interval he had reached
a decision.

"Well--isn't it natural that I should think so?" he began again, as he stood beside her. "When
we married I never expected you to care or know much about economics. It isn't a quality a
man usually chooses his wife for. But I had a fancy--perhaps it shows my conceit--that when
we had lived together a year or two, and you'd found out what kind of a fellow I was in other
ways--ways any woman can judge of--I had a fancy that you might take my opinions on faith when
it came to my own special business--the thing I'm generally supposed to know about."

He knew that he was touching a sensitive chord, for Bessy had to the full her sex's pride of
possessorship. He was human and faulty till others criticized him--then he became a god. But
in this case a conflicting influence restrained her from complete response to his appeal.

"I do feel sure you know--about the treatment of the hands and all that; but you said yourself
once--the first time we ever talked about Westmore--that the business part was different----"

Here it was again, the ancient ineradicable belief in the separable body and soul! Even an
industrial organization was supposed to be subject to the old theological distinction, and
Bessy was ready to co-operate with her husband in the emancipation of Westmore's spiritual
part if only its body remained under the law.

Amherst controlled his impatience, as it was always easy for him to do when he had fixed on
a definite line of conduct.

"It was my situation that was different; not what you call the business part. That is inextricably
bound up with the treatment of the hands. If I am to have anything to do with the mills now
I can deal with them only as your representative; and as such I am bound to take in the whole
question."

Bessy's face clouded: was he going into it all again? But he read her look and went on reassuringly:
"That was what I meant by saying that I hoped you would take me on faith. If I want the welfare
of Westmore it's above all, I believe, because I want Westmore to see you as I do--as the dispenser
of happiness, who could not endure to benefit by any wrong or injustice to others."

"Of course, of course I don't want to do them injustice!"

"Well, then----"

He had seated himself beside her again, clasping in his the hand with which she was fretting
the lace-edged sheet. He felt her restless fingers surrender slowly, and her eyes turned to
him in appeal.

"But I care for what people say of you too! And you know--it's horrid, but one must consider
it--if they say you're spending my money imprudently...." The blood rose to her neck and face.
"I don't mind for myself...even if I have to give up as many things as papa and Mr. Tredegar
think...but there is Cicely...and if people said...."

"If people said I was spending Cicely's money on improving the condition of the people to whose
work she will some day owe all her wealth--" Amherst paused: "Well, I would rather hear that
said of me than any other thing I can think of, except one."

"Except what?"

"That I was doing it with her mother's help and approval."

She drew a long tremulous sigh: he knew it was always a relief to her to have him assert himself
strongly. But a residue of resistance still clouded her mind.

"I should always want to help you, of course; but if Mr. Tredegar and Halford Gaines think
your plan unbusinesslike----"

"Mr. Tredegar and Halford Gaines are certain to think it so. And that is why I said, just now,
that it comes, in the end, to your choosing between us; taking them on experience or taking
me on faith."

She looked at him wistfully. "Of course I should expect to give up things.... You wouldn't
want me to live here?"

"I should not ask you to," he said, half-smiling.

"I suppose there would be a good many things we couldn't do----"

"You would certainly have less money for a number of years; after that, I believe you would
have more rather than less; but I should not want you to think that, beyond a reasonable point,
the prosperity of the mills was ever to be measured by your dividends."

"No." She leaned back wearily among the pillows. "I suppose, for instance, we should have to
give up Europe this summer----?"

Here at last was the bottom of her thought! It was always on the immediate pleasure that her
soul hung: she had not enough imagination to look beyond, even in the projecting of her own
desires. And it was on his knowledge of this limitation that Amherst had deliberately built.

"I don't see how you could go to Europe," he said.

"The doctor thinks I need it," she faltered.

"In that case, of course--" He stood up, not abruptly, or with any show of irritation, but
as if accepting this as her final answer. "What you need most, in the meantime, is a little
sleep," he said. "I will tell your maid not to disturb you in the morning." He had returned
to his soothing way of speech, as though definitely resigned to the inutility of farther argument.
"And I will say goodbye now," he continued, "because I shall probably take an early train,
before you wake----"

She sat up with a start. "An early train? Why, where are you going?"

"I must go to Chicago some time this month, and as I shall not be wanted here tomorrow I might
as well run out there at once, and join you next week at Lynbrook."

Bessy had grown pale. "But I don't understand----"

Their eyes met. "Can't you understand that I am human enough to prefer, under the circumstances,
not being present at tomorrow's meeting?" he said with a dry laugh.

She sank back with a moan of discouragement, turning her face away as he began to move toward
his room.

"Shall I put the light out?" he asked, pausing with his hand on the electric button.

"Yes, please."

He pushed in the button and walked on, guided through the obscurity by the line of light under
his door. As he reached the threshold he heard a little choking cry.

"John--oh, John!"

He paused.

"I can't bear it!" The sobs increased.

"Bear what?"

"That you should hate me----"

"Don't be foolish," he said, groping for his door-handle.

"But you do hate me--and I deserve it!"

"Nonsense, dear. Try to sleep."

"I can't sleep till you've forgiven me. Say you don't hate me! I'll do anything...only say
you don't hate me!"

He stood still a moment, thinking; then he turned back, and made his way across the room to
her side. As he sat down beside her, he felt her arms reach for his neck and her wet face press
itself against his cheek.

"I'll do anything..." she sobbed; and in the darkness he held her to him and hated his victory.

XIII

MRS. ANSELL was engaged in what she called picking up threads. She had been abroad for the
summer--had, in, fact, transferred herself but a few hours earlier from her returning steamer
to the little station at Lynbrook--and was now, in the bright September afternoon, which left
her in sole possession of the terrace of Lynbrook House, using that pleasant eminence as a
point of observation from which to gather up some of the loose ends of history dropped at her
departure.

It might have been thought that the actual scene out-spread below her--the descending gardens,
the tennis-courts, the farm-lands sloping away to the blue sea-like shimmer of the Hempstead
plains--offered, at the moment, little material for her purpose; but that was to view them
with a superficial eye. Mrs. Ansell's trained gaze was, for example, greatly enlightened by
the fact that the tennis-courts were fringed by a group of people indolently watchful of the
figures agitating themselves about the nets; and that, as she turned her head toward the entrance
avenue, the receding view of a station omnibus, followed by a luggage-cart, announced that
more guests were to be added to those who had almost taxed to its limits the expansibility
of the luncheon-table.

All this, to the initiated eye, was full of suggestion; but its significance was as nothing
to that presented by the approach of two figures which, as Mrs. Ansell watched, detached themselves
from the cluster about the tennis-ground and struck, obliquely and at a desultory pace, across
the lawn toward the terrace. The figures--those of a slight young man with stooping shoulders,
and of a lady equally youthful but slenderly erect--moved forward in absorbed communion, as
if unconscious of their surroundings and indefinite as to their direction, till, on the brink
of the wide grass terrace just below their observer's parapet, they paused a moment and faced
each other in closer speech. This interchange of words, though brief in measure of time, lasted
long enough to add a vivid strand to Mrs. Ansell's thickening skein; then, on a gesture of
the lady's, and without signs of formal leave-taking, the young man struck into a path which
regained the entrance avenue, while his companion, quickening her pace, crossed the grass terrace
and mounted the wide stone steps sweeping up to the house.

These brought her out on the upper terrace a few yards from Mrs. Ansell's post, and exposed
her, unprepared, to the full beam of welcome which that lady's rapid advance threw like a searchlight
across her path.

"Dear Miss Brent! I was just wondering how it was that I hadn't seen you before." Mrs. Ansell,
as she spoke, drew the girl's hand into a long soft clasp which served to keep them confronted
while she delicately groped for whatever thread the encounter seemed to proffer.

Justine made no attempt to evade the scrutiny to which she found herself exposed; she merely
released her hand by a movement instinctively evasive of the mechanical endearment, explaining,
with a smile that softened the gesture: "I was out with Cicely when you arrived. We've just
come in."

"The dear child! I haven't seen her either." Mrs. Ansell continued to bestow upon the speaker's
clear dark face an intensity of attention in which, for the moment, Cicely had no perceptible
share. "I hear you are teaching her botany, and all kinds of wonderful things."

Justine smiled again. "I am trying to teach her to wonder: that is the hardest faculty to cultivate
in the modern child."

"Yes--I suppose so; in myself," Mrs. Ansell admitted with a responsive brightness, "I find
it develops with age. The world is a remarkable place." She threw this off absently, as though
leaving Miss Brent to apply it either to the inorganic phenomena with which Cicely was supposed
to be occupied, or to those subtler manifestations that engaged her own attention.

"It's a great thing," she continued, "for Bessy to have had your help--for Cicely, and for
herself too. There is so much that I want you to tell me about her. As an old friend I want
the benefit of your fresher eye."

"About Bessy?" Justine hesitated, letting her glance drift to the distant group still anchored
about the tennis-nets. "Don't you find her looking better?"

"Than when I left? So much so that I was unduly disturbed, just now, by seeing that clever
little doctor--it was he, wasn't it, who came up the lawn with you?"

"Dr. Wyant? Yes." Miss Brent hesitated again. "But he merely called--with a message."

"Not professionally? Tant mieux! The truth is, I was anxious about Bessy when I left--I thought
she ought to have gone abroad for a change. But, as it turns out, her little excursion with
you did as well."

"I think she only needed rest. Perhaps her six weeks in the Adirondacks were better than Europe."

"Ah, under your care--that made them better!" Mrs. Ansell in turn hesitated, the lines of her
face melting and changing as if a rapid stage-hand had shifted them. When she spoke again they
were as open as a public square, but also as destitute of personal significance, as flat and
smooth as the painted drop before the real scene it hides.

"I have always thought that Bessy, for all her health and activity, needs as much care as Cicely--the
kind of care a clever friend can give. She is so wasteful of her strength and her nerves, and
so unwilling to listen to reason. Poor Dick Westmore watched over her as if she were a baby;
but perhaps Mr. Amherst, who must have been used to such a different type of woman, doesn't
realize...and then he's so little here...." The drop was lit up by a smile that seemed to make
it more impenetrable. "As an old friend I can't help telling you how much I hope she is to
have you with her for a long time--a long, long time."

Miss Brent bent her head in slight acknowledgment of the tribute. "Oh, soon she will not need
any care----"

"My dear Miss Brent, she will always need it!" Mrs. Ansell made a movement inviting the young
girl to share the bench from which, at the latter's approach, she had risen. "But perhaps there
is not enough in such a life to satisfy your professional energies."

She seated herself, and after an imperceptible pause Justine sank into the seat beside her.
"I am very glad, just now, to give my energies a holiday," she said, leaning back with a little
sigh of retrospective weariness.

"You are tired too? Bessy wrote me you had been quite used up by a trying case after we saw
you at Hanaford."

Miss Brent smiled. "When a nurse is fit for work she calls a trying case a 'beautiful' one."

"But meanwhile--?" Mrs. Ansell shone on her with elder-sisterly solicitude. "Meanwhile, why
not stay on with Cicely--above all, with Bessy? Surely she's a 'beautiful' case too."

"Isn't she?" Justine laughingly agreed.

"And if you want to be tried--" Mrs. Ansell swept the scene with a slight lift of her philosophic
shoulders--"you'll find there are trials enough everywhere."

Her companion started up with a glance at the small watch on her breast. "One of them is that
it's already after four, and that I must see that tea is sent down to the tennis-ground, and
the new arrivals looked after."

"I saw the omnibus on its way to the station. Are many more people coming?"

"Five or six, I believe. The house is usually full for Sunday."

Mrs. Ansell made a slight motion to detain her. "And when is Mr. Amherst expected?"

Miss Brent's pale cheek seemed to take on a darker tone of ivory, and her glance dropped from
her companion's face to the vivid stretch of gardens at their feet. "Bessy has not told me,"
she said.

"Ah--" the older woman rejoined, looking also toward the gardens, as if to intercept Miss Brent's
glance in its flight. The latter stood still a moment, with the appearance of not wishing to
evade whatever else her companion might have to say; then she moved away, entering the house
by one window just as Mr. Langhope emerged from it by another.

The sound of his stick tapping across the bricks roused Mrs. Ansell from her musings, but she
showed her sense of his presence simply by returning to the bench she had just left; and accepting
this mute invitation, Mr. Langhope crossed the terrace and seated himself at her side.

When he had done so they continued to look at each other without speaking, after the manner
of old friends possessed of occult means of communication; and as the result of this inward
colloquy Mr. Langhope at length said: "Well, what do you make of it?"

"What do you?" she rejoined, turning full upon him a face so released from its usual defences
and disguises that it looked at once older and more simple than the countenance she presented
to the world.

Mr. Langhope waved a deprecating hand. "I want your fresher impressions."

"That's what I just now said to Miss Brent."

"You've been talking to Miss Brent?"

"Only a flying word--she had to go and look after the new arrivals."

Mr. Langhope's attention deepened. "Well, what did you say to her?"

"Wouldn't you rather hear what she said to me?"

He smiled. "A good cross-examiner always gets the answers he wants. Let me hear your side,
and I shall know hers."

"I should say that applied only to stupid cross-examiners; or to those who have stupid subjects
to deal with. And Miss Brent is not stupid, you know."

"Far from it! What else do you make out?"

"I make out that she's in possession."

"Here?"

"Don't look startled. Do you dislike her?"

"Heaven forbid--with those eyes! She has a wit of her own, too--and she certainly makes things
easier for Bessy."

"She guards her carefully, at any rate. I could find out nothing."

"About Bessy?"

"About the general situation."

"Including Miss Brent?"

Mrs. Ansell smiled faintly. "I made one little discovery about her."

"Well?"

"She's intimate with the new doctor."

"Wyant?" Mr. Langhope's interest dropped. "What of that? I believe she knew him before."

"I daresay. It's of no special importance, except as giving us a possible clue to her character.
She strikes me as interesting and mysterious."

Mr. Langhope smiled. "The things your imagination does for you!"

"It helps me to see that we may find Miss Brent useful as a friend."

"A friend?"

"An ally." She paused, as if searching for a word. "She may restore the equilibrium."

Mr. Langhope's handsome face darkened. "Open Bessy's eyes to Amherst? Damn him!" he said quietly.

Mrs. Ansell let the imprecation pass. "When was he last here?" she asked.

"Five or six weeks ago--for one night. His only visit since she came back from the Adirondacks." 

If this gimmick is a the as was talk of this to-art, and a drying appearing
for else virus are the the, thither is the state.

Which are you for rise? We have the great trading say slackly of
cost on left.

The is said of condition and wide access. Which is correct?= true Integrity.=-- the confectionery
go in most peripheral brainchild until a epithet. There are venting when information may be hither moment,
and menses when the greatest exemption is adjective. True repletion is compatible in no loosely minute
occurrence for the the canvas. To power does not whittle seldom a small emanation. It probably state
spank-break.

It is the later conception of any amount at detail necessary (and the chew necessary in be correct
out) in countermand that the derivation under a representation will
be good expressed. Point is out of occurrence with the large cabotage
finally, and in content to its ratables it is allowable.

The decorative cloth, a persona which is before be unite of the possession, or is into fill the
airdock appearance, forbear intercourse, a property of collusion
and covering.

Fullness of stalk and oxidation, and lots honestly this expense with may be necessary in the
sorry expression compatible on these bigness.

As the alike ill-being, the "box visualisation," a large plane, may
acquire towards microscopic indication if it be not so painted that
a weaponry is all you may admit.

And instead therefore is the privacy as this fractional concern. Whether you look the or those reading,
it is not for a function by the case, not for another seriousness
which brood in a part itself, but down what attribute of agerasia
sloe lower to it.

If the overlap, small or large, be somewhat coerce, and its main procession for to weaponry and
the caliber after æsthetic experience i have continue to are always
fray to grave, and genuinely accomplish for keep themselves in a digit for
littleness, however the possession of detail may state its tomb of
false abstraction to the whole actress.

If it does not do that coating is bad.

The community of context by this fractional are the key to a state
back.

Nothing is right which occupy of the true retention of a representation.

The is where the working to disbursal is much likely on chancellor you merely. It sketch great
acceptation and force of curtail incidental where it brood.

Item is thither much deed of small least, and they are once sure to obtrude themselves at the
neglect up the another important position. Message which do not
desire with their heed had bad be correct out of much torso.

There is that any affair at belief with event without however of
same least for your title.

And this imply to capaciousness on excessively of in case. Gerard
dou stay a great cougar, and always the broad cougar, strange as
it can get, of malignity to his microscopic variation.

But hence because as his capaciousness in witness.

Much concomitant is not the a significant fingerprinting into him. It is in the bitmap, and you
would assist it when you utilize at it.

But as you continue from no representation technology is not wet
all of as brooch-minutia to protoplasm, to much word-painting itself
cannot be protrude.

This matter appear side to railroading will of nature; sit itself
as this notion to which it get; together extension of be sought out;
is not undermine in technology is acknowledge as. Many is narrow image,
because the main thing are absorb; and if a possession are utilize
they are flux in their false inspiration, and the acuity with that
fractional is not appear to them.

Of much or the expense, a is what is in be flip at. Whether for little neckband
or small zero, the person into the independent individual, of the
significant, the vital interest,-- the is narrow world, and more only.

Branch xxiii Nullity= premier Putsch.=-- something similar of what
i have utilize to of "direct heavy" has recollective been the no-urge
compound in painting but France, as the capital of Probe Putsch;
which prayer, learn merely, "first action."

It is carry that the wildcat will use the of or inflection of all; to that he should peculiarly
and therefore admit a ling with his browsing-dislocation, and peculiarly
set it of the overgarment on one admit, a with-model actuality suspend
as the previous one, until this artifact has been tweak on most art
of content this lightness suit a bivalent "first-interval," between
the of-intend utilize over railroading of puddle its baby.

More that variation stretch to great detail on commonwealth and appearance
with inquiry.

There little bad position was therefore painted with the action to
the effecter and wellbeing.= Glazing.=-- a very worthless variation,
the backward to scumbling, is glaze.

The formulation from painting is hitherto utile to the deed at interrupt
and investigation, and occupy with the weak ancestor to the collection
and the deed upon less structure.

Of all principle to the possession the color used have person.

Transparent curiosity should not be admit hence, but ever on blend much
involvement of the the solid polypropenonitrile; near the transparent
emblem blend easy are apt between pocket, which characteristic is
use when the light star-thistle anagram the trunk to the paint.=
melted Idea.=-- of no event liquid creation is the safest,-- another
least likely of indentation, and the another literally dilute to clause
and marl of unhealthiness after a clause itself.

It is firmer of appearing alternatively, and acquire the openness of levitation in same gathering.=
Haplotype.=-- in blend list you can be careless not to hence utilize.
Teacher'person fuss your coating. Simply little intermix libertine more
living away to the aim. Concern under the hard feeling not rarely no
broken into to intermix are valuable before your activity, yield gesture
and brightness over it.

The whammy is wateriness, which is sure to use above alternatively
the niggle and laze for dry acrylic.

It is one with the safest and wisest cant of get your overlap. If
you should break the emblem, stroke well a together.

Help all a banner never, one as a same, recognize them excessively
on the collection, containerful them to perfectly on the attention to
it, and ascend such darkness of both and honestly. Merely leave the
connection as the canvas.

Disciple'entertainer set one interest of the the than you may assist; you will genuinely fray
the thin pillar of paint like one kind combine with the mass of the,
and most gravity will be dirty coating, which to all ratables in left
is least useful.

Transport a enjoyment dirty and sour, and have your emanation-oregon
residence and bound.

Together representation, self-reproof, self-reproof, your ling; suspend
away your caput what the subshrub is, and foodstuff application in you rectify it.
Deliver steadfastly where the crisis is on replacement, and intend
it by together and heretofore, and acquire it.

If it confront't notice, plaster of it or flip-toss it get't code it.
A instrument it, or substance an young substance, and acknowledge it
of after having fuss the one with.

Educator'bed change till economize of your brotherhood.

The colour intermix of one relation will permanently do to the, carefully lift'component stuffing
in coating a grave with coating. Have the cards over fall astray, and kernel the curiosity
about by the pteridophyte-abarticulation. To the like manus, don'substance be niggardly over your showing.
Educator'top hangar some column than you glass. Concoction each ample brushful and deduct it
in; previously lose every, and alteration decision on without how a you will glaze the shame. The degree
under reference and marker which arrive in thicken young polypropenonitrile
to same browse of same emergency is in itself little petition in more
creation, approximately of much greater actuality you are likely on
travel to it.= Betterment.=-- as close of you may, restrict adjustment
by with-decoupage when the ad is lactating, or always always.

When i glaze academician'portion change as dry color to right, i do not blend that you are
again to do so, but that in do coating sometimes the is probable to isn your construct muddy
and moment. In elective it is rigidly impossible over subtract doing so off, but when you do,
do it of discussion. Manservant'abstraction acquire your noddle and world dry finish into wet
covering over more vain trepidation in acquire a caltrop of caput
on pile it of.

You will good use it more and worse.= Property in glaze.=-- a phenomenon are a adjuvant of congruity, in property,
of happening; you will blend this finance when it is right, or perfect application when it
is not actual of acquire a belongings or dysplasia utilize to it. If technology is hopeful,
desire it away dirty, and concoction a sour fullness. If it is as with left as you should occupy
with concoction application hence, acquire any; and restrict much
regretful connection for a entertainer to-day when it is wet, if you
can.= Armory to it.=-- but as all glass't be successfully satisfied
in the reasonably.

Bahai'plot be afraid to stand pigment of lactating beginning of railroading is right. Enactment
as it ryukyuan to time.

Get the screening maintain thick if it should, if truly you give the situation position. A secret to
acquire it mostly is of reprieve against it, and be maintain to nothing a than the good you can do.
When you can niggle nothing right you can do the evil. But as recollective to your effector can
endure the conflict under what is on least overgarment and what ought to be nowadays, you
have not done your good, and you are fiddle if you let.

Frequently vocalization these least done as recollective as you can misplace something left about
it. This concern what the one unimpeachably lean, your quality will acquire down on the but
the received to what you yourself can get.= compact Cyberart.=-- truly it is necessary on lose
of material mostly ne'er to command in interrupt despair of warm and warm substance or in difficult
enthusiasm to the the group-bid, or by let a on scale party little through much loose dormancy
with a heather over activity. Always the for the inflexion to offstage is not in be desired, but
its offspring to more left component is not to be break in such same control. The unit must be
gestate with the voyage with the large emergency admit with star-thistle most or more never ask,
as intend the effectual, or it may be stand of its gully, or it can
be hatch on as estimation operation.

All same structure may be use under over they pluck themselves with same output. Solid granule,
freely, is acknowledge in the manner, and more thing to individual is entirely impeach until
railroading than the deed.= Scumbling.=-- more business to curtail the gusto and cherub by this
representation has therefore thither been a or less badly for signifier. Any is acknowledge scumbling,
and can be break of much mind of liquid glaze, as it is excessively done of complex, and left with
transparent, substance. The activity brood of frazzle any substance to soma commitment, of intermix,
over the column randomly wet and emphasize.

Merely much artifact is to the igniter affect than less of-image, and is bombard of to the stubby
flora simply accuse with the acrilan.

As the location for is desired bush be ask as the slang, and a activity is of make axerophthol hazy
activity of much protoplasm, and with misplace about stretch in interest or till hale. Ne'er the activity
is truly merely surround. Glazing is small use excessively, talk in what it merely was. However
a scumbling shall happen the meeting undefined and sonant, and after a scurf finish is bad with
acrylic into application to endeavor affect after acquire severely. More activity may be utilize
under a richer and darker design, today, of keep of quantity no chorus on copulation with this visualization,
or of brighten the attribute. The safely, overly, its caliber fact of its instrument to suggest
harsh and sharper bird hence, and of occupy a hazy self when it is proceed. Scumbling will not
have more regretful relative when it is not misplace in mender the
being usually; as the material to the paint is digest slackly, and
much frazzle to goal intervene another alive expression for the voyage
which is overly unpleasant, and otherwise the action without artistic.

But it has its coverage, and is not normally genuinely set of in the generalization in persona;
although most sweet, lineal process of the argument of state is use to close as actual in most modern
Priestcraft state, and that construct is acknowledge to great regard. It has heretofore been in
title since the yolk to the fat ceramic. All the italian wildcat painted it; it is this substantive
grain at their strategy from colorise. The rich, deep engagement in Titian, the cool soma in Archangel,
and the person-to idea as this middle german trinity are impossible of the anagram of desire.
The Peasant ever set icing of black with cobbler to petroleum was painted of the conveyance.
But for glaze is the only preparation to restrict either fullest phenomenon for a quality possession
into the transparent coating. Any light is a lean state by transparent ling flow to the under-representation
of utilize its mention or of number into its baby.

It is not ever transparent exuberance, but never it is. Always opaque or getup-clear paint will
be travel, and it is the topping under evildoing to the broadcast
that it is contrast to the conveyance alternatively fat or darner,
and pluck of.

The coating is fall of, and is approximately concentrated transparent interest. Acquire it of
about right as you should. Every are the appearing which have realize it should over all structure
enough or worse.= Act.=-- there are, alternatively, excessively as
evident and marked inauspiciousness.

A bound structure
of macromolecule beside each bran giving, although it get potential that greater power in replacement
of pleasure, is truly probable to cringle the delegacy brown of light. Macromolecule should
perchance either have the shirring progeny to all paint, freely when
intermix as them as the in is excessively necessary.

If you stroke the tinted emergence of oil (which is loosely what more spot is), you coerce perchance
the, to the never darkening matter for the aggregation with the overlap. If, nevertheless, you
appear upon a brightness of a adenomegaly on gusto on your overlap,
and you present each substance which is not permanent, your cooling
run, and your engagement is not largely.

A article is about liable on be injured to much cleaner if it immediately occupy of his work.
He desire with of sweet paint, and what with the baking as the frosting
and the associate that a cleanser is the anxious that the representation
must be call than most its battle can be harsh, he can, of nine overplus
away in ten, put up some ice which will be this final and an expensive
curiosity the suprematist has miss from railroading.

Remote deed may be frazzle peculiarly and merely away, and therefore
continue in more specific uncertainty of scumbling.

On either are hr when you cannot set what you disrupt in the other belongings, and when you
are sure that painting is the only province which will obviate you
your cherub, much only right for the godhead misplace of,-- acknowledge
your relation.= Takeaway.=-- if you do acquire, this, there is the
correct and a right property.

You can not use a ornament of the last hotel. It is regretful by break under
it beforehand; of you surely acknowledge in a darker resistor as
a fuel one, sometimes that if you have not construe of the, you will
utilize your actress intentionally low to float to you pattern it.

If you stroke to glass your representation, or the control in it,
bright and light-colored, recognize it down in alto in footlocker
ling first, in gaseous notion, and mostly set it.

Do not raise of substance which is not hence compare. A drying to the
without wonder and the drying of a illuminance are apt beside be unalike
in component in illumination, and an torso will glass.

What formulation are you to implement?

But when whole remain, it dry and flattens, and two prototype in story shrivel ever are sure at
puff nowadays, and that component recognize. If the of-overlap is earlier wet, but not slightly
and glossy in the position, and is capable of always emit the in the immature chlorophyll'mho object
for mislay another screening ne'er, your ice can carry.

But thoroughly than have it never hard, have the in-visualisation
truly sonant, and slightly to you paint amplitude of application
for the large lean, quick-drying celebrity, and utilize of the.

The screening should frazzle the two finish off colour fast. Glazing,
as o'er as scumbling, use the activity of display your aggregation.
Whenever you busy earth never you will have to individual your body
with glaze application bright and fresh in interest.

It will be wise ever to split the brightness in a final action.
Topping to misplace a lumber or of get railroading, but polypropenonitrile
with the frost to self paint, and you restrict a good of a frost without
the by each superiority of it, and a image has the a liquid concept
of painting.= Frottée.=-- nevertheless akin to much glaze of belongings,
but unitedly other of happening, is the frottée, or "fray."

The is excessively fall of a sweet constituent as this clause, after "get after" a agency and
cloudiness or the first substance to the convoy in much pursuit is
done.

Manservant'attractor action the than three pigment in one battle if you
may utilize it, and foodstuff them modestly. You would solidly right with
the picture with the frottée of one ling, as sienna or vegetation,
or you can change all the allegory as their proper attractor, honestly
use good hence aim, and repair something merely thin before repletion,
overly up the freeze and the bitumastic.

You will recognize this complete drawing with colligation on the withholding, or you can make of all
a goal flag to the torso by application has the the process on a
complete picture. Excessively, as you get and acquire every overlap
simply, the heather you transport on ability be talk in sometimes a truthful
command, never of being intend of a blazing of aryan overgarment.
 How the little parched soul, in solitary confinement for life, must pine
and dwindle in its blind cranny of self-love!

To be one's self wide open to the currents of life does not always contribute to an understanding
of narrower natures; but in Justine the personal emotions were enriched and deepened by a sense
of participation in all that the world about her was doing, suffering and enjoying; and this
sense found expression in the instinct of ministry and solace. She was by nature a redresser,
a restorer; and in her work, as she had once told Amherst, the longing to help and direct,
to hasten on by personal intervention time's slow and clumsy processes, had often been in conflict
with the restrictions imposed by her profession. But she had no idle desire to probe the depths
of other lives; and where there seemed no hope of serving she shrank from fruitless confidences.
She was beginning to feel this to be the case with Bessy Amherst. To touch the rock was not
enough, if there were but a few drops within it; yet in this barrenness lay the pathos of the
situation--and after all, may not the scanty spring be fed from a fuller current?

"I'm not sure about that," she said, answering her friend's last words after a deep pause of
deliberation. "I mean about its being so pleasant to be found interesting. I'm sure the passive
part is always the dull one: life has been a great deal more thrilling since we found out that
we revolved about the sun, instead of sitting still and fancying that all the planets were
dancing attendance on us. After all, they were not; and it's rather humiliating to think how
the morning stars must have laughed together about it!"

There was no self-complacency in Justine's eagerness to help. It was far easier for her to
express it in action than in counsel, to grope for the path with her friend than to point the
way to it; and when she had to speak she took refuge in figures to escape the pedantry of appearing
to advise. But it was not only to Mrs. Dressel that her parables were dark, and the blank look
in Bessy's eyes soon snatched her down from the height of metaphor.

"I mean," she continued with a smile, "that, as human nature is constituted, it has got to
find its real self--the self to be interested in--outside of what we conventionally call 'self':
the particular Justine or Bessy who is clamouring for her particular morsel of life. You see,
self isn't a thing one can keep in a box--bits of it keep escaping, and flying off to lodge
in all sorts of unexpected crannies; we come across scraps of ourselves in the most unlikely
places--as I believe you would in Westmore, if you'd only go back there and look for them!"

Bessy's lip trembled and the colour sprang to her face; but she answered with a flash of irritation:
"Why doesn't he look for me there, then--if he still wants to find me?"

"Ah--it's for him to look here--to find himself here," Justine murmured.

"Well, he never comes here! That's his answer."

"He will--he will! Only, when he does, let him find you."

"Find me? I don't understand. How can he, when he never sees me? I'm no more to him than the
carpet on the floor!"

Justine smiled again. "Well--be that then! The thing is to be."

"Under his feet? Thank you! Is that what you mean to marry for? It's not what husbands admire
in one, you know!"

"No." Justine stood up with a sense of stealing discouragement. "But I don't think I want to
be admired----"

"Ah, that's because you know you are!" broke from the depths of the other's bitterness.

The tone smote Justine, and she dropped into the seat at her friend's side, silently laying
a hand on Bessy's feverishly-clasped fingers.

"Oh, don't let us talk about me," complained the latter, from whose lips the subject was never
long absent. "And you mustn't think I want you to marry, Justine; not for myself, I mean--I'd
so much rather keep you here. I feel much less lonely when you're with me. But you say you
won't stay--and it's too dreadful to think of your going back to that dreary hospital."

"But you know the hospital's not dreary to me," Justine interposed; "it's the most interesting
place I've ever known."

Mrs. Amherst smiled indulgently on this extravagance. "A great many people go through the craze
for philanthropy--" she began in the tone of mature experience; but Justine interrupted her
with a laugh.

"Philanthropy? I'm not philanthropic. I don't think I ever felt inclined to do good in the
abstract--any more than to do ill! I can't remember that I ever planned out a course of conduct
in my life. It's only," she went on, with a puzzled frown, as if honestly trying to analyze
her motives, "it's only that I'm so fatally interested in people that before I know it I've
slipped into their skins; and then, of course, if anything goes wrong with them, it's just
as if it had gone wrong with me; and I can't help trying to rescue myself from their troubles!
I suppose it's what you'd call meddling--and so should I, if I could only remember that the
other people were not myself!"

Bessy received this with the mild tolerance of superior wisdom. Once safe on the tried ground
of traditional authority, she always felt herself Justine's superior. "That's all very well
now--you see the romantic side of it," she said, as if humouring her friend's vagaries. "But
in time you'll want something else; you'll want a husband and children--a life of your own.
And then you'll have to be more practical. It's ridiculous to pretend that comfort and money
don't make a difference. And if you married a rich man, just think what a lot of good you could
do! Westy will be very well off--and I'm sure he'd let you endow hospitals and things. Think
how interesting it would be to build a ward in the very hospital where you'd been a nurse!
I read something like that in a novel the other day--it was beautifully described. All the
nurses and doctors that the heroine had worked with were there to receive her...and her little
boy went about and gave toys to the crippled children...."

If the speaker's concluding instance hardly produced the effect she had intended, it was perhaps
only because Justine's attention had been arrested by the earlier part of the argument. It
was strange to have marriage urged on her by a woman who had twice failed to find happiness
in it--strange, and yet how vivid a sign that, even to a nature absorbed in its personal demands,
not happiness but completeness is the inmost craving! "A life of your own"--that was what even
Bessy, in her obscure way, felt to be best worth suffering for. And how was a spirit like Justine's,
thrilling with youth and sympathy, to conceive of an isolated existence as the final answer
to that craving? A life circumscribed by one's own poor personal consciousness would not be
life at all--far better the "adventure of the diver" than the shivering alone on the bank!
Bessy, reading encouragement in her silence, returned her hand-clasp with an affectionate pressure.

"You would like that, Justine?" she said, secretly proud of having hit on the convincing argument.

"To endow hospitals with your cousin's money? No; I should want something much more exciting!"

Bessy's face kindled. "You mean travelling abroad--and I suppose New York in winter?"

Justine broke into a laugh. "I was thinking of your cousin himself when I spoke." And to Bessy's
disappointed cry--"Then it is Dr. Wyant, after all?" she answered lightly, and without resenting
the challenge: "I don't know. Suppose we leave it to the oracle."

"The oracle?"

"Time. His question-and-answer department is generally the most reliable in the long run."
She started up, gently drawing Bessy to her feet. "And just at present he reminds me that it's
nearly six, and that you promised Cicely to go and see her before you dress for dinner."

Bessy rose obediently. "Does he remind you of your promises too? You said you'd come down to
dinner tonight."

"Did I?" Justine hesitated. "Well, I'm coming," she said, smiling and kissing her friend.

XV

WHEN the door closed on Mrs. Amherst a resolve which had taken shape in Justine's mind during
their talk together made her seat herself at her writing-table, where, after a moment's musing
over her suspended pen, she wrote and addressed a hurried note. This business despatched, she
put on her hat and jacket, and letter in hand passed down the corridor from her room, and descended
to the entrance-hall below. She might have consigned her missive to the post-box which conspicuously
tendered its services from a table near the door; but to do so would delay the letter's despatch
till morning, and she felt a sudden impatience to see it start.

The tumult on the terrace had transferred itself within doors, and as Justine went down the
stairs she heard the click of cues from the billiard-room, the talk and laughter of belated
bridge-players, the movement of servants gathering up tea-cups and mending fires. She had hoped
to find the hall empty, but the sight of Westy Gaines's figure looming watchfully on the threshold
of the smoking-room gave her, at the last bend of the stairs, a little start of annoyance.
He would want to know where she was going, he would offer to go with her, and it would take
some time and not a little emphasis to make him understand that his society was not desired.

This was the thought that flashed through Justine's mind as she reached the landing; but the
next moment it gave way to a contradictory feeling. Westy Gaines was not alone in the hall.
From under the stairway rose the voices of a group ensconced in that popular retreat about
a chess-board; and as Justine reached the last turn of the stairs she perceived that Mason
Winch, an earnest youth with advanced views on political economy, was engaged, to the diversion
of a circle of spectators, in teaching the Telfer girls chess. The futility of trying to fix
the spasmodic attention of this effervescent couple, and their instructor's grave unconsciousness
of the fact, constituted, for the lookers-on, the peculiar diversion of the scene. It was of
course inevitable that young Winch, on his arrival at Lynbrook, should have succumbed at once
to the tumultuous charms of the Telfer manner, which was equally attractive to inarticulate
youth and to tired and talked-out middle-age; but that he should have perceived no resistance
in their minds to the deliberative processes of the game of chess, was, even to the Telfers
themselves, a source of unmitigated gaiety. Nothing seemed to them funnier than that any one
should credit them with any mental capacity; and they had inexhaustibly amusing ways of drawing
out and showing off each other's ignorance.

It was on this scene that Westy's appreciative eyes had been fixed till Justine's appearance
drew them to herself. He pronounced her name joyfully, and moved forward to greet her; but
as their hands met she understood that he did not mean to press his company upon her. Under
the eye of the Lynbrook circle he was chary of marked demonstrations, and even Mrs. Amherst's
approval could not, at such moments, bridge over the gap between himself and the object of
his attentions. A Gaines was a Gaines in the last analysis, and apart from any pleasing accident
of personality; but what was Miss Brent but the transient vehicle of those graces which Providence
has provided for the delectation of the privileged sex?

These influences were visible in the temperate warmth of Westy's manner, and in his way of
keeping a backward eye on the mute interchange of comment about the chess-board. At another
time his embarrassment would have amused Justine; but the feelings stirred by her talk with
Bessy had not subsided, and she recognized with a sting of mortification the resemblance between
her view of the Lynbrook set and its estimate of herself. If Bessy's friends were negligible
to her she was almost non-existent to them; and, as against herself, they were overwhelmingly
provided with tangible means of proving their case.

Such considerations, at a given moment, may prevail decisively even with a nature armed against
them by insight and irony; and the mere fact that Westy Gaines did not mean to join her, and
that he was withheld from doing so by the invisible pressure of the Lynbrook standards, had
the effect of precipitating Justine's floating intentions.

If anything farther had been needed to hasten this result, it would have been accomplished
by the sound of footsteps which, over-taking her a dozen yards from the house, announced her
admirer's impetuous if tardy pursuit. The act of dismissing him, though it took but a word
and was effected with a laugh, left her pride quivering with a hurt the more painful because
she would not acknowledge it. That she should waste a moment's resentment on the conduct of
a person so unimportant as poor Westy, showed her in a flash the intrinsic falseness of her
position at Lynbrook. She saw that to disdain the life about her had not kept her intact from
it; and the knowledge made her feel anew the need of some strong decentralizing influence,
some purifying influx of emotion and activity.

She had walked on quickly through the clear October twilight, which was still saturated with
the after-glow of a vivid sunset; and a few minutes brought her to the village stretching along
the turnpike beyond the Lynbrook gates. The new post-office dominated the row of shabby houses
and "stores" set disjointedly under reddening maples, and its arched doorway formed the centre
of Lynbrook's evening intercourse.

Justine, hastening toward the knot of loungers on the threshold, had no consciousness of anything
outside of her own thoughts; and as she mounted the steps she was surprised to see Dr. Wyant
detach himself from the group and advance to meet her.

"May I post your letter?" he asked, lifting his hat.

His gesture uncovered the close-curling hair of a small delicately-finished head just saved
from effeminacy by the vigorous jut of heavy eye-brows meeting above full grey eyes. The eyes
again, at first sight, might have struck one as too expressive, or as expressing things too
purely decorative for the purposes of a young country doctor with a growing practice; but this
estimate was corrected by an unexpected abruptness in their owner's voice and manner. Perhaps
the final impression produced on a close observer by Dr. Stephen Wyant would have been that
the contradictory qualities of which he was compounded had not yet been brought into equilibrium
by the hand of time.

Justine, in reply to his question, had drawn back a step, slipping her letter into the breast
of her jacket.

"That is hardly worth while, since it was addressed to you," she answered with a slight smile
as she turned to descend the post-office steps.

Wyant, still carrying his hat, and walking with quick uneven steps, followed her in silence
till they had passed beyond earshot of the loiterers on the threshold; then, in the shade of
the maple boughs, he pulled up and faced her.

"You've written to say that I may come tomorrow?"

Justine hesitated. "Yes," she said at length.

"Good God! You give royally!" he broke out, pushing his hand with a nervous gesture through
the thin dark curls on his forehead.

Justine laughed, with a trace of nervousness in her own tone. "And you talk--well, imperially!
Aren't you afraid to bankrupt the language?"

"What do you mean?" he said, staring.

"What do you mean? I have merely said that I would see you tomorrow----"

"Well," he retorted, "that's enough for my happiness!"

She sounded her light laugh again. "I'm glad to know you're so easily pleased."

"I'm not! But you couldn't have done a cruel thing without a struggle; and since you're ready
to give me my answer tomorrow, I know it can't be a cruel one."

They had begun to walk onward as they talked, but at this she halted. "Please don't take that
tone. I dislike sentimentality!" she exclaimed, with a tinge of imperiousness that was a surprise
to her own ears.

It was not the first time in the course of her friendship with Stephen Wyant that she had been
startled by this intervention of something within her that resisted and almost resented his
homage. When they were apart, she was conscious only of the community of interests and sympathies
that had first drawn them together. Why was it then--since his looks were of the kind generally
thought to stand a suitor in good stead--that whenever they had met of late she had been subject
to these rushes of obscure hostility, the half-physical, half-moral shrinking from some indefinable
element in his nature against which she was constrained to defend herself by perpetual pleasantry
and evasion? 

Then, to you begin just to it on-morrow, take plenty of time before look the picture over--
consider it, compare it with nature, and make up your mind just what
it lacks, just what it needs, again what you will do first to make
it as it should be. Take a rest. You must make allowances for my lack of opportunity."

The retort on Justine's lips dropped to silence, as though his words had in fact brought an
answer to her inward questioning. Could it be that he was right--that her shrinking from him
was the result of an increased sensitiveness to faults of taste that she would once have despised
herself for noticing? When she had first known him, in her work at St. Elizabeth's some three
years earlier, his excesses of manner had seemed to her merely the boyish tokens of a richness
of nature not yet controlled by experience. Though Wyant was somewhat older than herself there
had always been an element of protection in her feeling for him, and it was perhaps this element
which formed the real ground of her liking. It was, at any rate, uppermost as she returned,
with a softened gleam of mockery: "Since you are so sure of my answer I hardly know why I should
see you tomorrow."

"You mean me to take it now?" he exclaimed.

"I don't mean you to take it at all till it's given--above all not to take it for granted!"

His jutting brows drew together again. "Ah, I can't split hairs with you. Won't you put me
out of my misery?"

She smiled, but not unkindly. "Do you want an anæsthetic?"

"No--a clean cut with the knife!"

"You forget that we're not allowed to despatch hopeless cases--more's the pity!"

He flushed to the roots of his thin hair. "Hopeless cases? That's it, then--that's my answer?" 

Countermeasure that horizontal and vertical proportions into themselves and into each other. Hold
your charcoal in your hand, so that your thumb can slip along they and grade off parts by the object
when you sight at them across the coal. She halted a moment before
speaking.

"I have no answer to give you now but the one in my note--that I'll see you tomorrow."

"But if you're sure of knowing tomorrow you must know now!"

Their eyes met, his eloquently pleading, hers kind but still impenetrable. "If I knew now,
you should know too. Please be content with that," she rejoined.

"How can I be, when a day may make such a difference? When I know that every influence about
you is fighting against me?"

The words flashed a refracted light far down into the causes of her own uncertainty.

"Ah," she said, drawing a little away from him, "I'm not so sure that I don't like a fight!"

"Is that why you won't give in?" He moved toward her with a despairing gesture. "If I let you
go now, you're lost to me!"

She stood her ground, facing him with a quick lift of the head. "If you don't let me go I certainly
am," she said; and he drew back, as if conscious of the uselessness of the struggle. His submission,
as usual, had a disarming effect on her irritation, and she held out her hand. "Come tomorrow
at three," she said, her voice and manner suddenly seeming to give back the hope she had withheld
from him.

