The grocer hesitated, dismayed for a second by the threatening weights in the boy's hand. But
pride urged the man on. He stepped up quickly, and planted a smarting blow on Jimmy's leg.
It was well for the grocer that he ducked his head; for when the paddle struck, the boy did
not flinch, but let drive one weight after another, and cried before each crash of glass that
the flying irons made inside the store, "Yes, you will!" and again, "Yes, you will!"

He forgot the ache in his cramped heel and the burning in his bruised toe as he ran to the
middle of the street.

"You old coward, why don't you pick on some one your size?"

The tears were rising to his eyes; he had to run to escape from the tide. Just as he turned,
he caught a glimpse of his father joining the gathering crowd. After that his feet grew wings.

A freight train stood on the track in front of the boy, a quarter of a mile away. A mad impulse
came to him as he ran, and he yielded to it. A boy with a grievance, or a boy with a sore toe,
or a boy with fear at his back, cannot fashion his conduct after the beautiful principles laid
down in Mr. Herbert Spencer's "Data of Ethics." So when Jimmy Sears came to the freight train
that blocked his flight, he darted down the track until he was out of sight of any possible
pursuers in the street. He clambered breathlessly into a coal car, and snuggled down into a
corner inside a little strip of shade, and panted like a hunted rabbit. A sickening pain throbbed
up from his toe. The train moved slowly at first, and Jimmy knew that he could not hide from
the train men in a coal car. On a banter from Piggy Pennington and Bud Perkins Jimmy had ridden
on the brake-beam while the switch engine was pulling freight cars about the railroad yards.
He had a vague idea that midway of the train, between two box cars, would be a safe place.
When the train began to increase its speed, Jimmy climbed up the side of a cattle car and ran
along the roof. He had gone three car-lengths and was about to make his third jump, when he
saw the angry face of his father, who appeared on the depot platform. Instinctively the boy
darted to the other side of the car-roof. His jump fell short. The father saw his son's head
go down, and for an awful minute Henry Sears heard the lumbering train rumble by. In the first
second of that minute, the frantic man listened for a scream. He heard none. Then slowly he
sank upon a baggage truck. He was helpless. A paralysis of horror was upon him. Car after car
jolted along. At last the yellow caboose flashed by him. Half of the longest second Henry Sears
ever knew passed before he dared turn his eyes toward the place on the track where his son
went down. Then he looked, and saw only the cinder track and the shining rails. But an instant
later he heard a familiar whoop, and, staring around, saw Jimmy sitting on a load of wheat
that was standing between the railroad tracks. In this the boy had fallen after his sidewise
jump had thrown him from the moving train. When Henry Sears saw his son, Jimmy was holding
his foot, jiggling it vigorously and roaring, moved half by the hysteria of fright and half
by the pain of a fresh laceration of his bruised toe. The boy's face was black with coal-dust
and wheat chaff, and tears were striping his features grotesquely. The palsy of terror loosened
its steel bands from the father's limbs, and he ran to the wheat-wagon. Jimmy Sears, for all
he or his father know, may have floated to the ground from the wagon bed. But a moment later,
in a frenzy wherein anger furnished only a sub-conscious motor, and joy pumped wildly at the
expanding valves of his blissful heart, Henry Sears took his thirteen-year-old son across his
knee, and spanked him in a delirium of ecstasy; spanked him merrily, while a heavenly peace
glorified his paternal soul; spanked him, caring not how many times the little body wriggled,
and the little voice howled, and the dirty little fingers foiled his big, bony hand as it fell.
At the end of the felicitous occasion, the father found his voice,--

"Haven't I told you enough, sir, to keep off the cars? Haven't I? Haven't I? Answer me, sir.
Do you hear me? Haven't I?"

And Jimmy Sears knew by that turn of the conversation that the episodes of the stolen chicken
and of the broken showcases were forgotten, so he nodded a contrite head, His father returned
to earth by giving his son a few casual cuffs, with, "Will you try that again, sir?" and continued,--

"Now, sir, let me see you walk right straight home. And just you let me catch you down here again!"

Jimmy was wise enough to hurry along as fast as his bleeding foot would take him. He saw the
advantage of a motion to adjourn without further debate, and the motion prevailed.

An hour later, Jimmy Sears had washed the dirt from the interior of an irregular circumference
that touched his ears and his chin and his hair. Until the twilight fell he stayed in the conning-tower
in the Penningtons' barn, and watched his home through a crack between two boards. When he
saw his father leave the house for town after supper, Jimmy hurried down a lane in sight of
his father, yet out of his father's reach. At the close of twilight, Jimmy Sears came up the
hard-beaten path that led to his home, through burdock weeds and sunflowers. There was a light
in the kitchen, and through the window he could see Mrs. Jones moving about. He observed that
the supper dishes were being put away. He saw his eldest sister, with the tea towel in her
hands, chatting happily with Mrs. Jones. The spectacle filled him with rage. He felt that the
other children had deserted him, and that, in the war against the new baby, they had left him
to fight unaided. He met a little brother, who greeted him with,--

"Uh-hu, Mr. Jimmy, you just wait till pa gets you!"

A prolonged and scornful "Aw!" was Jimmy's reply to this welcome. On the step of the back porch,
his favorite little sister sat playing with the house-cat. She toddled to Jimmy; he let her
take his finger, and they went into the kitchen.

"Oh, Jimmy!--where--you--been?" demanded the eldest sister. "Mamma's been asking for you all
day. I'd be ashamed if I was you."

The boy did not deign to speak to Mrs. Jones, and kept his back to her when he could. He did
not answer his sister's question.

"Got anything here fit to eat?" he asked, as he threw open the cupboard doors. The insult to
Mrs. Jones was not accidental. Jimmy supposed that she had cooked the supper. He put two or
three plates of food on the table, and drew up a chair, sneering bumptiously, "What's this?"
as he dived into each dish.

His sister's "Why, Jimmy!" and her warning frowns did not change his course. Mrs. Jones went
to the front of the house, diplomatically leaving all the doors open behind her, that Mrs.
Sears might hear her son's voice. In a moment the boy caught the faint sound of his mother
calling from the distant bedroom, "Jimmy, Jimmy, come here; I want you."

The boy pretended not to hear. She called his name again. "Yes 'm," he answered. When she repeated
her request, he filled his mouth with pie, and replied, "I'm a-eatin' now." He slipped a piece
of ice down the back of his adoring little sister's dress, who sat near him. When she wept
noisily, he laughed under his breath, and spoke aloud to his sister at the dish-pan,--

"What'd you want to take Annie's doll away from her for? Give it back, why don't you?"

"Why--Jimmy--Sears!" retorted the girl. Then lifting her voice, "Mamma, Jimmy's put ice down--"
But the lad pressed the ice against the child's back, pretending to be removing the source
of the trouble, and the child's lusty howls drowned the girl's protest. When he heard the bedroom
door close to shield his mother from the turmoil, Jimmy knew that he had outwitted Mrs. Jones,
so he quelled the disturbance he had caused. When Mrs. Jones returned to the kitchen, the boy
was sitting on the porch steps with his little sister, telling her about "raw head and bloody
bones," greatly to the child's horror and delight.

Jimmy heard his elder sister inquire, "Did Mamma eat her supper?" He heard Mrs. Jones respond,
"Not very much of it; but she will after a while, I guess. She said to leave it in there."

"Couldn't she eat any of that nice chicken Mrs. Pennington sent?"

"No, nor Mrs. Carpenter's lemon jelly."

"Poor mamma!" sighed the girl.

But Jimmy had other reflections. Two minutes later he walked past his mother's open door, and
fumbled around in the sitting-room.

"Is that you, Jimmy?" asked his mother.

"Yes 'm," rejoined the boy.

"What are you doing?"

"Lookin' for my other coat."

"Won't you come in and see me, Jimmy? I haven't seen you for two whole days."

"In a minute," returned Jimmy.

Standing awkwardly in the doorway, he asked, "What 'd you want?"

"Come over here, Jimmy," returned the mother. "My poor, neglected boy!" He would not let his
eyes find the new baby. He stood stiffly on one foot, and gave his mother his hand. She drew
him down and kissed his cheek, while he pecked at her lips. As Jimmy rose, his mother smiled.

"Are you hungry, Jimmy?"

The boy nodded a vociferous affirmative. Being a boy, one of the lowest orders of human creatures
in point of intuitions, Jimmy could not know that his mother understood the rankle in her son's
heart. Nor could he divine that she kept the supper dainties as peace offerings.

"Won't you have some of my supper?"

"Don't you want it?" returned the boy, to justify his greed.

"No, Jimmy; I'm not hungry. I kept it all for you."

While her son was sitting on the floor, eating off the tray on the chair by the bed, his mother's
hand was in his hair, stroking it lovingly. His sister and the other children looked in and
saw him. Jimmy knew they were whispering "Hoggy!" but he did not heed them. His mother avoided
mentioning the new baby to him; she made him tell her about his sore toe, and in return she
told him how lonely she had been without him.

As his stomach filled, his heart overflowed,--a common coincidence even with older and better
boys than Jimmy, and the tears came to his eyes. At last, when the plate was cleared, he rose,
and went to the place where the new-comer lay. He bent over the little puff in the bedclothes,
and grinned sheepishly as he lifted the cover from the sleeping baby's face. He looked at the
red features a moment curiously, and said in his loud, husky, boyish voice,--

"Hullo there, Miss Sears; how are you this evenin'?"

Then he pinched his mother's arm and walked out of the room, his soul at peace.

MUCH POMP AND SEVERAL CIRCUMSTANCES

Back of Pennington's barn, which was the royal castle of the Court of Boyville, ran a hollow.
In the hollow grew a gnarly box-elder tree. This tree was the courtiers' hunting-lodge. In
the crotches of the rugged branches Piggy Pennington, Abe Carpenter, Jimmy Sears, Bud Perkins,
and Mealy Jones were wont to rest of a summer afternoon, recounting the morning's adventures
in the royal tourney of the marble-ring, planning for the morrow's chase, meditating upon the
evil approach of the fall school term, and following such sedentary pursuits as to any member
of the court seemed right and proper. One afternoon late in August the tree was alive with
its arboreal aristocracy. Abe Carpenter sat on the lowest branch, plaiting a four-strand, square-braided
"quirt"; Jimmy Sears was holding the ends. Piggy was casually skinning cats, hanging by his
legs, or chinning on an almost horizontal limb, as he took his part in the lagging talk. Hidden
by the foliage in the thick of the tree, in a three-pronged seat, Bud Perkins reclined, his
features drawn into a painful grimace, as his right hand passed to and fro before his mouth,
rhythmically twanging the tongue of a Jew's-harp, upon which he was playing "To My Sweet Sunny
South Take Me Home." He breathed heavily and irregularly. His eyes were on the big white clouds
in the blue sky, and his heart was filled with the poetry of lonesomeness that sometimes comes
to boys in pensive moods. For the days when he had lived with his father, a nomad of the creeks
that flowed by half a score of waterways into the Mississippi, were upon the far horizon of
his consciousness, and the memory of those days made him as sad as any memory ever can make
a healthy, care-free boy. He played "Dixie," partly because it was his dead father's favorite
tune, and partly because, being sprightly, it kept down his melancholy. Later he took out a
new mouth-organ, which his foster mother had given to him, and to satisfy his boyish idea of
justice played "We shall Meet, but We shall Miss Him," because it was Miss Morgan's favorite.
While he played the Jew's-harp his tree friends flung ribald remarks at him. But when Bud began
to waver his hand for a tremulo upon the mouth-organ as he played "Marsa's in de Col', Col'
Groun'," a peace fell upon the company, and they sat quietly and heard his repertoire,--"Ol'
Shadey," "May, Dearest May," "Lilly Dale," "Dey Stole My Chile Away," "Ol' Nicodemus," "Sleeping,
I Dream, Love," and "Her Bright Smile." He was a Southern boy--a bird of passage caught in
the North--and his music had that sweet, soothing note that cheered the men who fought under
the Stars and Bars.

Into this scene rushed Mealy Jones, pell mell, hat in hand, breathless, bringing war's alarms.
"Fellers, fellers," screamed Mealy, half a block away, "it's a-comin' here! It's goin' to be
here in two weeks. The man's puttin' up the boards now, and you can get a job passin' bills."

An instant later the tree was deserted, and five boys were running as fast as their legs would
carry them toward the thick of the town. They stopped at the new pine bill-board, and did not
leave the man with the paste bucket until they had seen "Zazell" flying out of the cannon's
mouth, the iron-jawed woman performing her marvels, the red-mouthed rhinoceros with the bleeding
native impaled upon its horn and the fleeing hunters near by, "the largest elephant in captivity,"
carrying the ten-thousand dollar beauty, the acrobats whirling through space, James Robinson
turning handsprings on his dapple-gray steed, and, last and most ravishing of all, little Willie
Sells in pink tights on his three charging Shetland ponies, whose breakneck course in the picture
followed one whichever way he turned. When these glories had been pasted upon the wall and
had been discussed to the point of cynicism, the Court of Boyville reluctantly adjourned to
get in the night wood and dream of a wilderness of monkeys.

During the two weeks after the appearance of the glad tidings on the bill-boards, the boys
of Willow Creek spent many hours in strange habiliments, making grotesque imitations of the
spectacles upon the boards. Piggy Pennington rolled his trousers far above his knees for tights,
and galloped his father's fat delivery horse up and down the alley, riding sideways, standing,
and backwards, with much vainglory. To simulate the motley of the tight-rope-walking clown,
Jimmy Sears wore the calico lining of his clothes outside, when he was in the royal castle
beyond his mother's ken. Mealy donned carpet slippers in Pennington's barn, and wore long pink-and-white
striped stockings of a suspiciously feminine appearance, fastened to his abbreviated shirt
waist with stocking-suspenders, hated of all boys. In the streets of the town the youngsters
appeared disguised as ordinary boys. They revelled in the pictured visions of the circus, but
were sceptical about the literal fulfilment of some of the promises made on the bills. Certain
things advertised were eliminated from reasonable expectation: for instance, the boys all knew
that the giraffe would not be discovered eating off the top of a cocoanut-tree; nor would the
monkeys play a brass band; and they knew that they would not see the "Human Fly" walk on the
ceiling at the "concert." For no boy has ever saved enough money to buy a ticket to the "concert."
Nevertheless, they gloated over the pictures of the herd of giraffes and the monkey-band and
the graceful "Human Fly" walking upside down "defying the laws of gravitation;" and they considered
no future, however pleasant, after the day and date on the bills. Thus the golden day approached,
looming larger and larger upon the horizon as it came. In the interim, how many a druggist
bought his own bottles the third and fourth time, how many a junk-dealer paid for his own iron,
how many bags of carpet rags went to the ragman, the world will never know.

Now, among children of a larger growth, in festive times hostile demonstrations cease; animosities
are buried; but in Boyville a North-ender is a North-ender, a South-ender is a South-ender,
and a meeting of the two is a fight. Boyville knows no times of truce. It asks nor offers quarter.
When warring clans come together, be it workday, holiday, or even circus day, there is a clatter
of clods, a patter of feet, and retreating hoots of defiance. And because the circus bill-boards
were frequented by boys of all kiths and clans, clashes occurred frequently, and Bud Perkins,
who was the fighter of the South End, had many a call to arms. Indeed, the approaching circus
unloosed the dogs of war rather than nestled the dove of peace. For Bud Perkins, in a moment
of pride, issued an ukase which forbade all North End boys to look at a certain bill-board
near his home. This ukase and his strict enforcement of it made him the target of North End
wrath. Little Miss Morgan, his foster-mother, who had adopted him at the death of his father
the summer before the circus bills were posted, could not understand how the lad managed to
lose so many buttons, nor how he kept tearing his clothes. She ascribed these things to his
antecedents and to his deficient training. She did not know that Bud, whom she called Henry,
and whose music on the mouth-organ seemed to come from a shy and gentle soul, was the Terror
of the South End. Her guileless mind held no place for the important fact that North End boys
generally travelled by her door in pairs for safety. Such is the blindness of women. Cupid
probably got his defective vision from his mother's side of the house.

The last half of the last week before circus day seemed a century to Bud and his friends. Friday
and Saturday crept by, and Mealy Jones was the only boy at Sunday-school who knew the Golden
Text, for an inflammatory rumor that the circus was unloading from the side-track at the depot
swept over the boys' side of the Sunday-school room, and consumed all knowledge of the fifth
chapter of Acts, the day's lesson. After Sunday-school the boys broke for the circus grounds.
There they feasted their gluttonous eyes upon the canvas-covered chariots, and the elephants,
and the camels, and the spotted ponies, passing from the cars to the tents. The unfamiliar
noises, the sight of the rising "sea of canvas," the touch of mysterious wagons containing
so many wonders, and the intoxicating smell that comes only with much canvas, many animals,
and the unpacking of Pandora's box, stuffed the boys' senses until they viewed with utter stoicism
the passing dinner hour and the prospect of finding only cold mashed potatoes and the necks
and backs of chickens in the cupboards. They even affected indifference to parental scoldings,
and lingered about the enchanting spot until the shadows fell eastward and the day was old.

When a boy gets on his good behavior he tempts Providence. And the Providence of boys is frail
and prone to yield. So when Bud Perkins, who was burning with a desire to please Miss Morgan
the day before the circus, went to church that Sunday night, any one can see that he was provoking
Providence in an unusual and cruel manner. Bud did not sit with Miss Morgan, but lounged into
the church, and took a back seat. Three North End boys came in and sat on the same bench. Then
Jimmy Sears shuffled past the North Enders, and sat beside Bud. After which the inevitable
happened. It kept happening. They "passed it on," and passed it back again; first a pinch,
then a chug, then a cuff, then a kick under the bench. Heads craned toward the boys occasionally,
and there came an awful moment when Bud Perkins found himself looking brazenly into the eyes
of the preacher, who had paused to glare at the boys in the midst of his sermon. The faces
of the entire congregation seemed to turn upon Bud automatically. A cherub-like expression
of conscious innocence and impenetrable unconcern beamed through Bud Perkins's features. The
same expression rested upon the countenances of the four other malefactors. At the end of the
third second Jimmy Sears put his hand to his mouth and snorted between his fingers. And four
young men looked down their noses. In the hush, Brother Baker--a tiptoeing Nemesis--stalked
the full length of the church toward the culprits. When he took his seat beside the boys the
preacher continued his discourse. Brother Baker's unctuousness angered Bud Perkins. He felt
the implication that his conduct was bad, and his sense of guilt spurred his temper. Satan
put a pin in Bud's hand. Slowly, almost imperceptibly, Satan moved the boy's arm on the back
of the pew, around Jimmy Sears. Then an imp pushed Bud's hand as he jabbed the pin into the
back of a North Ender. The boy from the North End let out a yowl of pain. Bud was not quick
enough. Brother Baker saw the pin; two hundred devout Methodists saw him clamp his fingers
on Bud Perkins's ear, and march him down the length of the church and set him beside Miss Morgan.
It was a sickening moment. The North End grinned as one boy under its skin, and was exceeding
glad. So agonizing was it for Bud that he forgot to imagine what a triumph it was for the North
End--and further anguish is impossible for a boy.

Miss Morgan and Bud Perkins left the church with the congregation. Bud dreaded the moment when
they would leave the crowd and turn into their side street. When they did turn, Bud was lagging
a step or two behind. A boy's troubles are always the fault of the other boy. The North End
boy's responsibility in the matter was so clear--to Bud--that, when he went to justify himself
to Miss Morgan, he was surprised and hurt at what he considered her feminine blindness to the
fact. After she had passed her sentence she asked: "Do you really think you deserve to go, Henry?"

The blow stunned the boy. He saw the visions of two weeks burst like bubbles, and he whimpered:
"I dunno." But in his heart he did know that to deny a boy the joy of seeing Willie Sells on
his three Shetland ponies, for nothing in the world but showing a North-ender his place, was
a piece of injustice of the kind for which men and nations go to war. At breakfast Bud kept
his eyes on his plate. His face wore the resigned look of a martyr. Miss Morgan was studiously
gracious. He dropped leaden monosyllables into the cheery flow of her conversation, and after
breakfast put in his time at the woodshed.

At eight o'clock that morning the town of Willow Creek was in the thrall of the circus. Country
wagons were passing on every side street. Delivery carts were rattling about with unusual alacrity.
By half-past nine dressed-up children were flitting along the side streets hurrying their seniors.
On the main thoroughfare flags were flying, and the streams of strangers that had been flowing
into town were eddying at the street corners. The bark of the fakir rasped the tightening nerves
of the town. There the bees hummed lazily over the old-fashioned flower garden; there the cantankerous
jays jabbered in the cottonwoods; there the muffled noises of the town festival came as from
afar; there Miss Morgan puttered about her morning's work, trying vainly to croon a gospel
hymn; and there Bud Perkins, prone upon the sitting-room sofa, made parallelograms and squares
and diamonds with the dots and lines on the ceiling paper. When the throb of the drum and the
blare of the brass had set the heart of the town to dancing, some wave of the ecstasy seeped
through the lilac bushes and into the quiet house. The boy on the sofa started up suddenly,
checked himself ostentatiously, walked to the bird cage, and began to play with the canary.
The wave carried the little spinster to the window. The circus had a homestead in human hearts
before John Wesley staked his claim, and even so good a Methodist as Miss Morgan could not
be deaf to the scream of the calliope nor the tinkle of cymbals.

To emphasize his desolation, Bud left the room, and sat down by a tree in the yard, with his
back to the kitchen door and window. There Miss Morgan saw him playing mumble-peg in a desultory
fashion. When the courtiers of Boyville came home from the parade they found him; and because
he sat playing a silent, sullen, solitary game, and responded to their banter only with melancholy
grunts, they knew that the worst had befallen him. Much confab followed, in which the pronoun
"she" and "her" were spoken. Otherwise Miss Morgan was unidentified. For the conversation ran
thus, over and over:--

"You ask her."

"Naw, I've done ast 'er."

"'T won't do no good for me to ast 'er. She don't like me."

"I ain't 'fraid to ast 'er."

"Well, then, why don't you?"

"Why don't you?"

"Let's all ast 'er."

"S'pose she will, Bud?"

"I dunno."

Then Piggy and Abe and Jimmy and Mealy came trapesing up to Miss Morgan's kitchen door. Bud
sat by the tree twirling his knife at his game. Piggy, being the spokesman, stood in the doorway.
"Miss Morgan," he said, as he slapped his leg with his hat.

"Well, Winfield?" replied the little woman, divining his mission, and hardening her heart against
his purpose.

"Miss Morgan," he repeated, and then coaxed sheepishly, "can't Bud go to the show with us,
Miss Morgan?"

"I'm afraid not to-day," smiled back Miss Morgan, as she went about her work. A whisper from
the doorstep prompted Piggy to "ask her why;" whereat Piggy echoed: "Why can't he, Miss Morgan?"

"Henry misbehaved in church last night, and we've agreed that he shall stay home from the circus."

Piggy advanced a step or two inside the door, laughing diplomatically: "O--no, Miss Morgan;
don't you think he's agreed. He's just dyin' to go."

Miss Morgan smiled, but did not join in Piggy's hilarity--a bad sign. Piggy tried again: "They
got six elephants, and one's a trick elephant. You'd die a-laughin' if you saw him." And Piggy
went into a spasm of laughter.

But it left Miss Morgan high and dry upon the island of her determination.

Piggy prepared for an heroic measure, and stepped over to the kitchen table, leaning upon it
as he pleaded: "This is the last circus this year, Miss Morgan, and it's an awful good one.
Can't he go just this once?"

