MRS. PETER RABBIT

BY

THORNTON W. BURGESS

With illustrations by HARRISON CADY

1919

TO MY DAUGHTER

WHOSE ASSISTANCE IN THE PREPARATION OF THIS VOLUME HAS BEEN INVALUABLE IT IS MOST AFFECTIONATELY
DEDICATED

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I       PETER RABBIT LOSES HIS APPETITE

II      PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOURNEY

III     HOOTY THE OWL CHANGES HIS HUNTING GROUNDS

IV      THE SHADOW WITH SHARP CLAWS

V       IN THE OLD PASTURE

VI      PETER RABBIT IS STILL LONESOME

VII     PETER FINDS TRACKS

VIII    THE STRANGE TRACKS IN THE OLD PASTURE

IX      AN UNPLEASANT SURPRISE

X       PETER RABBIT ALMOST DECIDES TO RETURN HOME

XI      PETER RABBIT HAS A SUDDEN CHANGE OF MIND

XII     PETER LEARNS SOMETHING FROM TOMMY TIT

XIII    LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL

XIV     SOME ONE FOOLS OLD JED THUMPER

XV      A PLEASANT SURPRISE FOR PETER

XVI     PETER RABBIT'S LOOKING-GLASS

XVII    PETER MEETS MISS FUZZYTAIL

XVIII   TOMMY TIT PROVES A FRIEND INDEED

XIX     OLD MAN COYOTE PAYS A DEBT

XX      LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL WHISPERS "YES"

XXI     PETER AND LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL LEAVE THE OLD PASTURE

XXII    SAMMY JAY BECOMES CURIOUS

XXIII   PETER INTRODUCES MRS. PETER

XXIV    DANNY MEADOW MOUSE WARNS PETER RABBIT

XXV     PETER RABBIT'S HEEDLESSNESS

XXVI    PETER RABBIT LISTENS TO MRS. PETER

XXVII   MISTAH MOCKER PLAYS A JOKE ON MRS. PETER

XXVIII  NEWS FROM THE OLD BRIAR-PATCH

XXIX    JIMMY SKUNK VISITS PETER RABBIT

XXX     REDDY FOX LEARNS THE SECRET

XXXI    BLACKY THE CROW HAS SHARP EYES

XXXII   PETER RABBIT'S NURSERY

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Every one who could walk, creep, or fly headed for the Old Briar-patch ..... Frontispiece

He dodged and jumped, and all the time the shadow followed him

That night Old Man Coyote started for the Old Pasture

"The quickest way for me to know is for you to tell me," replied Jimmy

CHAPTER I

PETER RABBIT LOSES HIS APPETITE

Good appetite, you'll always find,
Depends upon your state of mind.
                              Peter Rabbit.

Peter Rabbit had lost his appetite. Now when Peter Rabbit loses his appetite, something is
very wrong indeed with him. Peter has boasted that he can eat any time and all the time. In
fact, the two things that Peter thinks most about are his stomach and satisfying his curiosity,
and nearly all of the scrapes that Peter has gotten into have been because of those two things.
So when Peter loses his appetite or his curiosity, there is surely something the matter with him.

Ever since Old Man Coyote had come to live on the Green Meadows, Peter had been afraid to go
very far from the dear Old Briar-patch where he makes his home, and where he always feels safe.
Now there wasn't any reason why he should go far from the dear Old Briar-patch. There was plenty
to eat in it and all around it, for sweet clover grew almost up to the very edge of it, and
you know Peter is very fond of sweet clover. So there was plenty for Peter to eat without running
any risk of danger. With nothing to do but eat and sleep, Peter should have grown fat and contented.
But he didn't.

Now that is just the way with a lot of people. The more they have and the less they have to
worry about, the more discontented they become, and at last they are positively unhappy. There
was little Danny Meadow Mouse, living out on the Green Meadows; he was happy all the livelong
day, and yet he had no safe castle like the dear Old Briar-patch where he could always be safe.
Every minute of every day Danny had to keep his eyes wide open and his wits working their very
quickest, for any minute he was likely to be in danger. Old Man Coyote or Reddy Fox or Granny
Fox or Digger the Badger or Mr. Blacksnake was likely to come creeping through the grass any
time, and they are always hungry for a fat Meadow Mouse. And as if that weren't worry enough,
Danny had to watch the sky, too, for Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk, or his cousin Redtail, or
Blacky the Crow, each of whom would be glad of a Meadow Mouse dinner. Yet in spite of all this,
Danny was happy and never once lost his appetite.

But Peter Rabbit, with nothing to worry him so long as he stayed in the Old Briar-patch, couldn't
eat and grew more and more unhappy.

"I don't know what's the matter with me. I really don't know what's the matter with me," said
Peter, as he turned up his nose at a patch of sweet, tender young clover. "I think I'll go
and cut some new paths through the Old Briar-patch."

Now, though he didn't know it, that was the very best thing he could do. It gave him something
to think about. For two or three days he was very busy cutting new paths, and his appetite
came back. But when he had made all the paths he wanted, and there was nothing else to do,
he lost his appetite again. He just sat still all day long and moped and thought and thought
and thought. The trouble with Peter Rabbit's thinking was that it was all about himself and
how unhappy he was. Of course, the more he thought about this, the more unhappy he grew.

"If I only had some one to talk to, I'd feel better," said he to himself. That reminded him
of Johnny Chuck and what good times they used to have together when Johnny lived on the Green
Meadows. Then he thought of how happy Johnny seemed with his little family in his new home
in the Old Orchard, in spite of all the worries his family made him. And right then Peter found
out what was the matter with him.

"I believe I'm just lonesome," said Peter. "Yes, Sir, that's what's the matter with me.

    "It isn't good to be alone,
     I've often heard my mother say.
     It makes one selfish, grouchy, cross,
     And quite unhappy all the day.
     One needs to think of other folks,
     And not of just one's self alone,
     To find the truest happiness,
     And joy and real content to own.

"Now that I've found out what is the trouble with me, the question is, what am I going to do
about it?"

CHAPTER II

PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOURNEY

It's a long jump that makes no landing.
                                      Peter Rabbit.

"The trouble with me is that I'm lonesome," repeated Peter Rabbit as he sat in the dear Old
Briar-patch. "Yes, Sir, that's the only thing that's wrong with me. I'm just tired of myself,
and that's why I've lost my appetite. And now I know what's the matter, what am I going to
do about it? If I were sure, absolutely sure, that Old Man Coyote meant what he said about
our being friends, I'd start out this very minute to call on all my old friends. My, my, my,
it seems an age since I visited the Smiling Pool and saw Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat
and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter! Mr. Coyote sounded as if he really meant to leave me alone,
but, but--well, perhaps he did mean it when he saw me sitting here safe among the brambles,
but if I should meet him out in the open, he might change his mind and--oh, dear, his teeth
are terrible long and sharp!"

Peter sat a little longer, thinking and thinking. Then a bright idea popped into his head.
He kicked up his heels.

"I'll do it," said  he. "I'll make a journey! That's what I'll do! I'll make a journey and
see the Great World.

    "By staying here and sitting still
     I'm sure I'll simply grow quite ill.
     A change of scene is what I need
     To be from all my trouble freed."

Of course if Peter had really stopped to think the matter over thoroughly he would have known
that running away from one kind of trouble is almost sure to lead to other troubles. But Peter
is one of those who does his thinking afterward. Peter is what is called impulsive. That is,
he does things and then thinks about them later, and often wishes he hadn't done them. So now
the minute the idea of making a journey popped into his head, he made up his mind that he would
do it, and that was all there was to it. You see, Peter never looks ahead. If he could get
rid of the trouble that bothered him now, which, you know, was nothing but lonesomeness, he
wouldn't worry about the troubles he might get into later.

Now the minute Peter made up his mind to make a journey, he began to feel better. His lost
appetite returned, and the first thing he did was to eat a good meal of sweet clover.

"Let me see," said he, as he filled his big stomach, "I believe I'll visit the Old Pasture.
It's a long way off and I've never been there, but I've heard Sammy Jay say that it's a very
wonderful place, and I don't believe it is any more dangerous than the Green Meadows and the
Green Forest, now that Old Man Coyote and Reddy and Granny Fox are all living here. I'll start
tonight when I am sure that Old Man Coyote is nowhere around, and I won't tell a soul where
I am going." The tradition of race, selection secular
consciousness of high social position which is necessary to keep unimpaired, the fortune away
from the little miseries withering body and soul, behold the elements that combine to produce
women who pass before my eyes and those men strong, graceful, correct, I admired yesterday at
Hyde Park Corner. The aristocracy, under that light, is an elegance of nature.

The predominant feeling in the traveler enters the Vedic temple ruins India, walks her eyes
for the magnificent relics of Saqqarah Boulaq or even more than visit the ruins of the Colosseum
in Rome, is a mixture of devotion and awe, a feeling purely objective, if I can express myself well.
Our moral nature is not compromised in print, because those worlds have completely vanished
and their influence is imperceptible to the human ways of this. Not when running under the
arches Westminster, not when it rises quietly to occupy a place in the bar House of Commons
that the walls retained the echoes of the more generous accents higher than have come from
the mouths of men for the benefit of the entire species. In vain warn the spirit, alarmed by
the intense emotion that the memory in the heart awakens obscuring the view, in vain warned
that English history is but the development English selfishness, that these liberties so dearly
won, were only the English people, who for centuries lived on the British island walled, without
influence none over the destinies of Europe and the world. The thought is built on this approach
aside narrow resolution detail to see the whole. Then it is clear the slow development of free institutions
has been made in that place and The word light has gone out of his breast, at the right time, to
enlighten all men ...

Light penetrates through the glass ceiling, the room is small and
uncomfortable, with a certain temple and school.

Members sit on long benches narrow, undivided or tables in front. The speaker is tucked into
a niche similar to those in the bottom of which shines a Mongolian deity. To his right, the
first bank, the ministers ... I look with deep attention that humble seat. Many great men have engaged
in mud time! Many powerful spirits, restless, subtle, skilled, have excelled from there! I think
see the sardonic smile of Walpole, with his mischievous eyes looking to the world that dominates
degrading, the elegant look of Bolingbroke, Chatham theatrical majesty, restlessness, Addington
insufficient, the indifference of good taste of North, thoughtful, tired face Pitt, the noble
face of Fox, the stiffness of a Percival or a Castlereagh, virile Canning figure, the honest
and serious Peel, thin and bold face of Palmerston, the crafty Disraeli's face, and many, many others
whose names are thousands, each with his retinue own. In another bank that was sitting Burke,
dark day for Fox, that Hurricane of the French Revolution, saving the strait, broke for ever the
bonds of friendship sacred linking the two tribunes. There Sheridan fell, exhausted, eyes opaque,
the livid by the excesses of the orgy, and there got up to scream at Pitt, to whip face with
this phrase that arch like a whip: "Yes, no English blood has flowed in Quiberon, but the English
honor has run through every pore! "There Wilberforce beyond Mackintosch ... How to remember
them all? But there they are: his spirit hangs over this gathering of men, and Aliens who do not
have the habit of that show, create view, create even hear their human voices. In the bank ministers,
Gladstone, Bright, Forster ... But the last Roman dominates all. It concludes for now the long
line of great statesmen in England. Beaconsfield inheritance is still vacant between the Tories,
what is the Whig to be covered by the armor of the old Gladstone, and leaning on the tomb?
What is the arm that will move the sword overwhelming? Not available in British soil, as nothing
in the house of Brunswick a prince capable of lifting the shield of Plantagenet. The England
knows, and eagerly follows the last years, the last lightning of that spirit of unparalleled intensity,
the latest efforts of this extraordinary intelligence has saved the limits set by nature.
Helo there: he has worked in his office 12 hours consecutive, in finance, foreign policy, with
eyes fixed on the inside Asia, where the protégé of England at this time gives the field a successful
rival; at the southern tip of Africa, where the rough Dutch peasants challenge again English power,
and an hour for lunch, and then to the House. His eagle's head is leaning on the chest. "Rest?
Do you meditate? No, listen to the opponent who challenged his magnum opus, his will political,
this "bill of Ireland" with him who wanted to counter the rich stream three centuries of pain
and bitterness, the bill that wants to change a system in a day and petrified, as the generous Turgot
wanted to change the old regime in France, their "provincial assemblies' ... Suddenly, a tremor
shakes his body, raises his head, look at all sides, and at last, leaning the body to quickly get
up, so the Challenger has been completed. A nervous murmur runs through the assembly. Hear, hear! Gladstone!
M. Gladstone says turn the speaker. Prime Minister takes the first hat that has hand, since
no one can talk open and stands. How the Irish crowd on their small group on the left! The small
figure of Biggar, a sort of Pope, is noted for his mobility. Parnell is there, has already
spoken. If the political heritage of O'Connell is heavy, the tradition of his eloquence is overwhelming
... Let us listen to Gladstone: first, the moral authority, man's undeniable the assembly. Liberals,
Conservatives radical, independent, Irish, everyone listens with respect. Speak clearly and
High: exordium has cut its Greek and sarcasm is wrapped in bitterness have dark lived so many
years to reach the time when the vaults of Westminster heard the words just hurt his ear painfully.
Gradually, the tone goes down, and finally making your melee opponent, narrow, harasses, the
models between their hands, and giving a shape deformed and stunted, submit it to the mockery
of the House, as Gulliver in a Lilliputian. The victim struggles, interrupted with a steely
sarcasm, Gladstone, sign of access to the interruption, took a seat quickly, but seeing the
dart drop at his feet, as if it had been thrown by the hand tired of the old Priam, she takes
her time, and Achilles' arm, throws it against the one who leaves stuck and immobile for many
hours. Oh! Word! Sublime manifestation of human strength, the only element capable of shake,
drive, crazy, herds of men in the dust of the earth! You harmony verse, the pervasive influence
of musical rhythm, the form of artistic marble the color of the canvas divine. And among the
streams of light, waves of melody, harmonious forms as Greek meter, go the sarcasm of Juvenal,
Martial arrow, the Swift incisive edge, or the blunt force of the sublime Junius anonymous!
...

There are more profound difference between the social and urban aspects of Paris and London that
between Lima and Teheran. It seems incredible that just a half hour navigation, space a man
to swim through, to operate such a complete transformation. Out of a street Paris to get ten hours
later in London, to examine the appearance, the face moral of the Thames, having spent a couple
of hours studying the movement of the Seine, gives the feeling of having transported in Ariosto's
hippogriff to the region of the Antipodes.

I never tired of flânerie on the streets of London, there is no more eloquent and instructive
book on the political and social organization of the English people. No attempt to describe of
what they've seen, felt, because the pages that follow one another as memories crowd, and I have
already hurry to leave Europe and plunge into the far reaches of tropics.

But still I have traveled this fast that the British Museum, we use
three or four hours with Emilio Mitre, whose artwork unique and high
intelligence make him a wonderful companion for hiking.

What a struggle that, one against another, but both almost always against ourselves! Tucked in Nineveh
and Babylon, the running time insensitive, while Egypt, a few steps, looked at us seriously
with the big eyes its stone sphinxes and we could hear the horses pawing the Parthenon marbles
in the Elguín Lord ... What impression did not register great and pompous that preserves style
memory of the glorious deeds of a Rhamses or a Sennacherib, but those
simple red bricks, which, now fifteen or twenty thousand years, a
humble recorded in Assyrian characters cuneiform the terms of a contract
of sale or dark writing a mortgage!

The details of life at those times when men had to a configuration skull different from ours,
and therefore, moved his mind in different atmosphere, We called more attention than the stories
of the flood, which the sages have banished of the old walls of Nineveh with shouts of enthusiasm.
Then, the inimitable Greece, and in it, the inimitable Phidias. Below, the sovereign pieces of
the Parthenon, above, aerial figurines terracotta found in Tanagra. There are more than ten
or twelve inches high; but what perfection, what exquisite delicacy! How, under those veils
that cover as vestal robes, looks, feels harmonic motion of the body! A cramped, others up and
those ... Remember, Emilio, Creole blast enveloped us? ... Playing the tobacco! Yes, hunched over,
a delightful statuette avidly follows the turns of the small bone patient waiting while your partner's
turn. Look closely and we noted that taba otherwise had cast lots. What about autographs? How
to get rid of the windows that contain them, how to put out the eyes of the living portrait of the
great men, whose hand seems to beat even in the wrong piece of those lines but firm? ... And all
that marvelous museum, center, core, panorama, of the human spirit in time and space! There
is no source of pure sensation, higher than the contemplation of these artistic treasures and scientific,
penetrates the soul, indeed, a deep disappointment when the deficiency intellectual preparation
makes a marble is dumb for us, but certainly Intelligence horizons broaden at each visit to
such a world.

A visit to Brown, that sways gracefully in the waters of the Thames, at the height of Greenyde.
One object of my trip to England was to see the great ship in Argentina. The pavilion floating
in the stern filled me with inexpressible emotion, it was increased by the warm welcome received
from the officers in Argentina, with its worth Commodore at the helm. We visited the vessel all directions,
I explain its wonders, it tells me that European curiosity aroused by their new building and
while I contemplate their guns powerful flanks steel, the torpedo, machine guns, all these
barbaric elements of destruction, remember with joy that many years ago, Argentine warships
sail the seas, without peace, which is our aspiration and our wealth, has been troubled. Be well the
fate of Brown, that their guns do not thunder but the days of exercise, your flag respected
and loved by all peoples of the earth, not ever ize the mast are war, and if the attack makes
it inevitable that the chest of the men who made is as strong as
its iron scales, bury it in the ocean prior to lowering the flag white
and blue!

I spent a few days in Paris preparing for the long journey and saying goodbye to the comforts
of that life which, once proven, with all its subtleties and intellectual all material comfort,
it appears as the only logical existence for man on earth. What a mistake, how sad mistake
of those who do not see Paris but through the prism of its pleasures brutal and unnerving! What
is irresistible precisely this center is its atmosphere high and pure, where the vigorous spirit
breathes the air of the heights. Science, arts, letters, have there its noblest representatives,
and an hour at the Sorbonne, at school in France or in the Normal School, do more for our
intellectual education a month of reading ...

We flew over fields in the Vendée, the homeland of Larochefoucauld and d'Elbe, Cadoudal and
Stofflet, the land of the chouans where Marceau made his debut, which is Hoche covered with glory.
We have been made to change trains two or three times, which puts
us in a mood hell, and in the morning we arrived in Nantes, the train
crosses a slow pace.

Behold the countrywomen Breton with its characteristic white veil, with their stems thick, that is the
famous river, the scene of the Carrier noyades, Barbarian horrifying memory over time. We are
birds of passage, and for my part, I regret not having a couple of days to devote to Nantes, but
as I have merely cross it, go ask desist from annoying any data to guide and I hasten to get the nasty
port of St.-Nazaire, the French Guayra, as he called the secretary when the comparison was known
on the shores of the Caribbean. In the line of Orleans, would come at five o'clock, in the
West, after a trip fastidiosísimo, arrive at ten. We lost more than two hours to get our luggage,
and finally, all in order, we moved to the town of Brest steam, waiting, tied to the Dock and
the hot boilers, the time of departure.

I take pleasure in remembering that world still on board, so diverse, so complex and so different
which was used to find in the seas that surround the eastern part of America.

The journey is long, as St.-Nazaire to the Point-à-Pitre in Guadeloupe, not used less than a fortnight.
But during those two weeks, the animation is not a time fainted Ville de Brest, and good humor
knew why make a joke to the detestable food given to us.

Behold, the Azores, halting last pearl in the ancient and splendid Portuguese crown. The captain,
a compliment, it deviates slightly from the path and releases the ship between two islands, which
looks green, happy, killer breaking the monotony of the ocean, love the look and lifts the heart.
Both are neatly cultivated, and human effort holds on all sides of the mountain. We aim to
delight the moment laden atmosphere plant emissions, and then the
group of islands begins to get lost in the horizon, fading as an illusion.

We

are in the tropics, the heat begins to be overpowering and long hours that extend lunch at the food,
are really unbearable.

Most of the passengers, even the new governor of Martinique, crossing the sea for the first
time, and the crew, with the permission of the commander, organized tropical classic function
of baptism.

I could not figure out where it comes from that party property, some assume that was a resource
used by Columbus to distract the troubled spirit of his teammates. The fact is that low mood
brightens the monotony of navigation.

Tell it would be very long, from the time when, climbing on top rope, a messenger Tropic parent
questions directed to Commander, until the next day that the function develops and said character appears
in two sailors riding hunched over, covered with a bull's skin, which
remained in that attitude for hours.

Speeches are original and spark of the coarse salt gala, then comes the baptism is to receive
on her head a little water out of a huge pile of rubber and having a mock shave.
 But
for a long time he sat perfectly still, thinking of his adventures and wondering if he would
be missed down on the Green Meadows. Then all of a sudden Peter saw something that made him
sit up so suddenly that he cried "Ouch!" for he had forgotten all about how stiff and sore he was.

What do you think Peter saw? Tracks! Yes, Sir, he saw tracks, Rabbit tracks in the soft mud,
and Peter knew that he hadn't made them!

CHAPTER VIII

THE STRANGE TRACKS IN THE OLD PASTURE

 Who has attentive ear and eye
 Will learn a lot if he but try.
                              Peter Rabbit.

Peter Rabbit stared and stared at the tracks in the soft mud of the swamp in the Old Pasture.
He would look first at the tracks, then at his own feet, and finally back at the tracks again.
He scratched his long right ear with his long right hind foot. Then he scratched his long left
ear with his long left hind foot, all the time staring his hardest at those strange tracks.
They certainly were the tracks of a Rabbit, and it was equally certain that they were not his own.

"They are too big for mine, and they are too small for Jumper the Hare's. Besides, Jumper is
in the Green Forest and not way off up here," said Peter to himself. "I wonder--well, I wonder
if he will try to drive me away."

You see Peter knew that if he had found a strange Rabbit in his dear Old Briar-patch he certainly
would have tried his best to drive him out, for he felt that the Old Briar-patch belonged to
him. Now he wondered if the maker of these tracks would feel the same way about the Old Pasture.
Peter looked troubled as he thought it over. Then his face cleared.

"Perhaps," said he hopefully, "he is a new comer here, too, and if he is, I'll have just as
much right here as he has. Perhaps he simply has big feet and isn't any bigger or stronger
than I am, and if that's the case I'd like to see him drive me out!"

Peter swelled himself out and tried to look as big as he could when he said this, but swelling
himself out this way reminded him of how stiff and sore he was from the wounds given him by
Hooty the Owl, and he made a wry face. You see he realized all of a sudden that he didn't feel
much like fighting.

"My," said Peter, "I guess I'd better find out all about this other fellow before I have any
trouble with him. The Old Pasture looks big enough for a lot of Rabbits, and perhaps if I don't
bother him, he won't bother me. I wonder what he looks like. I believe I'll follow these tracks
and see what I can find."

So Peter began to follow the tracks of the strange Rabbit, and he was so interested that he
almost forgot to limp. They led him this way and they led him that way through the swamp and
then out of it. At the foot of a certain birch-tree Peter stopped.

"Ha!" said he, "now I shall know just how big this fellow is."

How was he to know? Why, that tree was a kind of Rabbit measuring- stick. Yes, Sir, that is
just what it was. You see, Rabbits like to keep a record of how they grow, just as some little
boys and girls do, but as they have no doors or walls to stand against, they use trees. And
this was the measuring-tree of the Rabbit whose tracks Peter had been following. Peter stopped
at the foot of it and sat down to think it over. He knew what that tree meant perfectly well.
He had one or two measuring-trees of his own on the edge of the Green Forest. He knew, too,
that it was more than a mere measuring-tree. It was a kind of "no trespassing" sign. It meant
that some other Rabbit had lived here for some time and felt that he owned this part of the
Old Pasture. Peter's nose told him that, for the tree smelled very, very strong of Rabbit--of
the Rabbit with the big feet. This was because whoever used it for a measuring-tree used to
rub himself against it as far up as he could reach.

Peter hopped up close to it. Then he sat up very straight and stretched himself as tall as
he could, but he wisely took care not to rub against the tree. You see, he didn't want to leave
his own mark there. So he stretched and stretched, but stretch as he would, he couldn't make
his wobbly little nose reach the mark made by the other Rabbit.

"My sakes, he is a big fellow!" exclaimed Peter. "I guess I don't want to meet him until I
feel better and stronger than I do now."

CHAPTER IX

AN UNPLEASANT SURPRISE

 Legs are very useful when you want to run away;
 Long, sharp teeth are splendid if to fight you want to stay;
 But a far, far greater blessing, whether one may stay or quit,
 Is a clever, trusty, quick and ever ready wit.
                                            Peter Rabbit.

Peter Rabbit sat in a snug hiding-place in the Old Pasture and thought over what he had found
out about the strange Rabbit whose tracks he had followed. They had led him to a rubbing or
measuring-tree, where the strange Rabbit had placed his mark, and that mark was so high up
on the tree that Peter knew the strange Rabbit must be a great deal bigger than himself.

"If he's bigger, of course he is stronger," thought Peter, "and if he is both bigger and stronger,
of course it won't be the least bit of use for me to fight him. Then, anyway, I'm too stiff
and sore to fight. And then, he has no business to think he owns the Old Pasture, because he
doesn't. I have just as much right here as he has. Yes, Sir, I have just as much right in this
Old Pasture as he has, and if he thinks he can drive me out he is going to find that he was
never more mistaken in his life! I'll show him! Yes, Sir-e-e, I'll show him! I guess my wits
are as sharp as his, and I wouldn't wonder if they are a little bit sharper."

Foolish Peter Rabbit! There he was boasting and bragging to himself of what he would do to
some one whom he hadn't even seen, all because he had found a sign that told him the Old Pasture,
in which he had made up his mind to make his new home, was already the home of some one else.
Peter was like a lot of other people; he wasn't fair. No, Sir, he wasn't fair. He let his own
desires destroy his sense of fair play. It was all right for him to put up signs in the dear
Old Briar-patch and the Green Forest, warning other Rabbits that they must keep away, but it
was all wrong for another Rabbit to do the same thing in the Old Pasture. Oh, my, yes! That
was quite a different matter! The very thought of it made Peter very, very angry. When he thought
of this other Rabbit, it was always as the stranger. That shows just how unfair Peter was,
because, you see, Peter himself was really the stranger. It was his first visit to the Old
Pasture, while it was very plain that the other had lived there for some time.

But Peter couldn't or wouldn't see that. He had counted so much on having the Old Pasture to
himself and doing as he pleased, that he was too upset and disappointed to be fair. If the
other Rabbit had been smaller than he--well, that might have made a difference. The truth is,
Peter was just a wee bit afraid. And perhaps it was that wee bit of fear that made him unfair
and unjust. Anyway, the longer he sat and thought about it, the angrier he grew, and the more
he bragged and boasted to himself about what he would do.

"I'll just keep out of sight until my wounds are healed, and then we'll see who owns the Old
Pasture!" thought Peter.

No sooner had this thought popped into his head than he received a surprise, such an unpleasant
surprise! It was three heavy thumps right behind him. Peter knew what that meant. Of course
he knew. It meant that he must run or fight. It meant that he had been so busy thinking about
how smart he was going to be that he had forgotten to cover his own tracks, and so the maker
of the big tracks he had followed had found him out.

Thump! Thump! Thump! There it was again. Peter knew by the sound that it was of no use to stay
and fight, especially when he was so sore and stiff. There was nothing to do but run away.
He simply had to. And that is just what he did do, while his eyes were filled with tears of
rage and bitterness.

CHAPTER X

PETER RABBIT ALMOST DECIDES TO RETURN HOME

 I have no doubt that you've been told
 How timid folks are sometimes bold.
                                    Peter Rabbit.

In all his life Peter Rabbit had never been so disappointed. Here he was in the Old Pasture,
about which he had dreamed and thought so long, and in reaching which he had had such a narrow
escape from Hooty the Owl, and yet he was unhappy. The fact is, Peter was more unhappy than
he could remember ever to have been before. Not only was he unhappy, but he was in great fear,
and the worst of it was he was in fear of an enemy who could go wherever he could go himself.

You see, it was this way: Peter had expected to find some enemies in the Old Pasture. He had
felt quite sure that fierce old Mr. Goshawk was to be watched for, and perhaps Mr. Redtail
and one or two others of the Hawk family. He knew that Granny and Reddy Fox had lived there
once upon a time and might come back if things got too unpleasant for them on the Green Meadows,
now that Old Man Coyote had made his home there. But Peter didn't worry about any of these
dangers. He was used to them, was Peter. He had been dodging them ever since he could remember,
A friendly bramble-bush, a little patch of briars, or an old stone wall near was all that Peter
needed to feel perfectly safe from these enemies, But now he was in danger wherever he went,
for he had an enemy who could go everywhere he could, and it seemed to Peter that this enemy
was following him all the time. Who was it? Why, it was a great big old Rabbit with a very
short temper, who, because he had lived there for a long time, felt that he owned the Old Pasture
and that Peter had no right there.

Now, In spite of all his trouble, Peter had seen enough of the Old Pasture to think it a very
wonderful place, a very wonderful place indeed. He had seen just enough to want to see more.
You know how very curious Peter is. It seemed to him that he just couldn't go back to the dear
Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows until he had seen everything to be seen in the Old Pasture.
So he couldn't make up his mind to go back home, but stayed and stayed, hoping each day that
the old gray Rabbit would get tired of hunting for him, and would let him alone.

But the old gray Rabbit didn't do anything of the kind. He seemed to take the greatest delight
in waiting until Peter thought that he had found a corner of the Old Pasture where he would
be safe, and then in stealing there when Peter was trying to take a nap, and driving him out.
Twice Peter had tried to fight, but the old gray Rabbit was too big for him. He knocked all
the wind out of poor Peter with a kick from his big hind legs, and then with his sharp teeth
he tore Peter's coat.

Poor Peter! His coat had already been badly torn by the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl, and Old
Mother Nature hadn't had time to mend it when he fought with the old gray Rabbit. After the
second time Peter didn't try to fight again. He just tried to keep out of the way. And he did,
too. But in doing it he lost so much sleep and he had so little to eat that he grew thin and
thin and thinner, until, with his torn clothes, he looked like a scarecrow.

 And still he hated to give in
  When there was still so much to see.
 "Persistence, I was taught, will win,
   And so I will persist," said he.

And he did persist day after day, until at last he felt that he really must give it up. He
had stretched out wearily on a tiny sunning-bank in the farthest corner of the Old Pasture,
and had just about made up his mind that he would go back that very night to the dear Old Briar-patch
on the Green Meadows, when a tiny rustle behind him made him jump to his feet with his heart
in his mouth. But instead of the angry face of the old gray Rabbit he saw--what do you think?
Why, two of the softest, gentlest eyes peeping at him from behind a big fern.

CHAPTER XI

PETER RABBIT HAS A SUDDEN CHANGE OF MIND

 Whatever you decide to do
 Make up your mind to see it through.
                                Peter Rabbit.

Peter Rabbit stared at the two soft, gentle eyes peeping at him from behind the big fern just
back of the sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture. He had so fully expected to
see the angry face of the big, gray, old Rabbit who had made life so miserable for him that
for a minute he couldn't believe that he really saw what he did see. And so he just stared
and stared. It was very rude. Of course it was. It was very rude indeed. It is always rude
to stare at any one. So it was no wonder that after a minute the two soft, gentle eyes disappeared
behind one of the great green leaves of the fern. Peter gave a great sigh. Then he remembered
how rude he had been to stare so.

"I--I beg your pardon," said Peter in his politest manner, which is very polite indeed, for
Peter can be very polite when he wants to be. "I beg your pardon. I didn't mean to frighten
you. Please forgive me."

With the greatest eagerness Peter waited for a reply. You know it was because he had been so
lonesome that he had left his home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows. And since
he had been in the Old Pasture he had been almost as lonesome, for he had had no one to talk
to. So now he waited eagerly for a reply. You see, he felt sure that the owner of such soft,
gentle eyes must have a soft, gentle voice and a soft, gentle heart, and there was nothing
in the world that Peter needed just then so much as sympathy. But though he waited and waited,
there wasn't a sound from the big fern.

"Perhaps you don't know who I am. I'm Peter Rabbit, and I've come up here from the Green Meadows,
and I'd like very much to be your friend," continued Peter after a while. Still there was no
sound. Peter peeped from the corner of one eye at the place where he had seen the two soft,
gentle eyes, but there was nothing to be seen but the gently waving leaf of the big fern. Peter
didn't know just what to do. He wanted to hop over to the big fern and peep behind it, but
he didn't dare to. He was afraid that whoever was hiding there would run away.

"I'm very lonesome; won't you speak to me?" said Peter, in his gentlest voice, and he sighed
a deep, doleful sort of sigh. Still there was no reply. Peter had just about made up his mind
that he would go over to the big fern when he saw those two soft, gentle eyes peeping from
under a different leaf. It seemed to Peter that never in all his life had he seen such beautiful
eyes. They looked so shy and bashful that Peter held his breath for fear that he would frighten
them away.

After a time the eyes disappeared. Then Peter saw a little movement among the ferns, and he
knew that whoever was there was stealing away. He wanted to follow, but something down inside
him warned him that It was best to sit still. So Peter sat just where he was and kept perfectly
still for the longest time.

But the eyes didn't appear again, and at last he felt sure that whoever they belonged to had
really gone away. Then he sighed another great sigh, for suddenly he felt more lonesome than
ever. He hopped over to the big fern and looked behind it. There in the soft earth was a footprint,
the footprint of a Rabbit, and it was SMALLER than his own. It seemed to Peter that it was
the most wonderful little footprint he ever had seen.

"I believe," said Peter right out loud, "that I'll change my mind. Portugal,
a pygmy, "Brazil absorbs the giant by his side? Let us be honest and practical resting in the conviction
that not only American independence is a fact and a right, but nobody has the idea of ​​attacking
things accomplished. Spain still has reorganized and much to do to regain a shadow of its importance
in the sixteenth century. France, torn, his eyes fixed on the Rhine, barely keeps his possessions in
Africa ... and their own European limits. England look to grow with India's anxiety, cope Canada,
and move silently democracy, which it considers a threat of dissolution. The Germany Thus,
hardening its foundation, is homogeneous, while Austria, lost their old European prestige includes,
under the experience of misfortune, that the real path His greatness is to the East, at the
head of the "sick man." The Portugal! ... Let's be serious I repeat, no one threatens the independence
of America, and for the more adventurous blundering or deluded is still alive the memory of Maximilian,
who paid with his life an absurd concept and undignified business, ignored his chivalrous spirit.
America can ignite in a continental war, committing serious European interests as those who have
suffered so much endless war in the Pacific, Europe does not give off a soldier of his paintings
and a ship of their reservation. Gone are the days of the Anglo-French intervention in Silver
or in Mexico, and Europe could, and this time with reason, to change the formula of Monroe
repeating Europe for the europeans!

What modern meaning, real, positive, has today, then, the famous doctrine?

Simply this: American influence rather than European influence, the American trade rather European,
American industry instead of Europe. Is that a legitimate desire? Undoubtedly, but it is a
simple national aspiration, selfish in their patriotism, unique in its ambition, but that is not covered,
as I said before, the character of a principle of justice, natural law, which is able to impose
on the whole of America. That within five years the astonishing development of Argentina, its
industry overflowing, the inexhaustible resources of its soil, inspire our statesmen the resurrection
of the doctrine Monroe on behalf of the Argentine people, just natural. But what then answer American
nationalities who have not reached their level of achievement, moreover, that geography place
outside the orbit of Argentina? Precisely what we must answer United States today frankly
and openly, whether in the table of a U.S. Congress is by the discreet voice of the foreign
ministries, and that's not only us but every country from Panama to Buenos Aires: "We must not, want
not, we will not break with Europe should benefit a theory without political sense at the present
time, the Europe we are the intellectual life and material life. She and only she fills our
deserts, buy and consume our products, replaces the shortcomings of our industry, give us your money,
his genius and science; is, in short, the architect of our progress. Instead, what we receive from you,
Gentlemen? The institutional case, in the midst of its advantages, brings the power of our institutional
conflicts, because we imitate indiscriminately, and evil result, there is lost under the massive
weight of the mass, we are unbalanced and us in separate sheds dire. For how industry? Pine
timber and cotton bales. Come to buy our wool and leathers, sell at prices lower than Europe,
tissues and artifacts; abridnos your money markets to help us make railways and canals; establish,
in a word, trade and intellectual now have with the Old World desbancadlo, what the hell!
under the laws governing the economy of nations, and then ... Oh! then we would not have, neither
you nor us, screaming need shouting America for the Americans, but the formula would be a fact indestructible
the force of things. Such are the ideas that imposes the slightest observation of our current state,
the slightest deviation could only be momentary, and the return of unjust Via cost maybe our
brothers in Mexico (neighbors, however), many sacrifices.

Now, what should our attitude on the issue of South America Warranty Panama Canal? It is clear
from the above premises, the undisputed choice of the collective security of Europe and America on
the Union's exclusive warranty. I declare, without merit in my view the criticism of skeptical,
he founded today minor in this issue of guarantees, treaties with
the wind when sailing fan of interests [30].

And in the course of positivism today launching the human spirit advertisers shout, but Europe
shrugs when Wolseley takes hold of the Suez Canal, and for the sake of a transit stop military operation,
not the flag insurrectionary Arabia, but universal trade. Browse hand and then change notes,
here is all politics. Is good, is morality, is the fair? I do not know, but the only one that works,
and Therefore, any statesman, moaning by the depravity of the ideas, will always who loves
his country, has the heart and see it as a bit unclear.

With all the guarantees of the land or his own, the United States at the time must have to seize
the Panama Canal. Definitely return it, yes, after the peace and much exchange of notes.

The importance of the issue to the South American countries lies, therefore, to reject indirectly,
through its commitment to collective security, all solidarity with
the doctrine Monroe, as is understood and practiced by the Americans.

There would be no reason or justice, or common sense, to follow the U.S. stupidly, intended
to issue a new Bull of Alexander VI, divided the two worlds to their advantage. Our future is
in Europe and with it every day we strengthen our relationships,
mistaken, if possible, our life with it, indeed, draw their ideas
of order, conservation, purity administrative you have to fertilize
our democracy strong ...

I've wondered what England would respond
if the United States will propose the substitution your warranty exclusively
by the collective guarantee of all countries of both Americas.

It just laugh, what could we do in the likely event that our huge ally occurred to him do what he
pleased?

The real South American politics, as in the case of the planned convening of the Congress by the
United States, or any occasion, it is strongly express their wishes not to depart from Europe,
at the same time trying to insinuate themselves into the general concert, claiming a modest
seat at any conference in which American interests are concerned. Cavour got 15,000 men through a crack in
the Crimea, and then maneuvered so However, he did the Italian unit.

Our emerging countries now have a purpose so vital to pursue, but the results of a general approach
and the advantages of marching on the same line of great nations, just once, can be of incalculable
importance ...

I now ask forgiveness for the last few pages, but as the end of the day is approaching and soon
we parted, I expect that will be read with that patient, full of vague hopes, heard that the
last paragraph of a nuisance that has the hat in one hand and the other on the doorknob.

* * * * *

When I went to Alene, who had to leave the next morning, I found a number of unloading men and
women over fifty wagons had just left a locomotive the side of the vapor, which transshipped
content.

Do you know what it was? Bananas! Never I have seen a similar amount of bananas. Thousands, millions
of bunches were stacked in vast warehouses of three ships that carried simultaneously. Such development
has taken the industry on the Isthmus, which had been founded exclusively for steamship the transport
of bananas.

       Later, in New York, I explained that special use.

The streets are full of fruit vendors, and rare is the U.S. that the move does not buy a couple
of bananas, peeling bravely with his teeth and swallows without diminishing their gymnastic
step. Has reached such a point the thing that has required a police edict grieving with heavy
fine for throwing banana peels on the street, thus providing opportunity to more than unfortunate
to break your neck.

Now, you know how much has promoted the value of banana exports from the port of Columbus in
1881? A one million two hundred thousand pesos inert, that is, six billion Swiss francs or thirty
million pesos currency (Buenos Aires). I figure in several types money for their enormity is not attributable
to error [31].

"Ye pretend the pyramid of bunches of bananas that is needed, a paltry
price paid for reach that amount?

And yet, one of the strongest exporters, the initiator idea, has double the exports in two years,
accustomed to the banana the whole region central United States that has not bitten the soft fruit.
It is good to note that bananas from Panama, which is the best in the world, occurs throughout
the year.

Pore, as before existing plants were far from sufficient to meet export, owners huge plantations
have been hired, and on the day but are not full of banana fruit along the railroad from Colon
to Panama. The banana is shipped green, begins to brown After four or five days, and full flavor
arrives in New York, where he soon disappears to the formidable consumption.

If, as expected, the fifty million people in the United States habituate to eat bananas in the proportion
that today they are New Yorkers and people in general coast, Panama's future is assured. Leaving
the tropical climbing sap joyous Palm and swell the golden fruit that can become the richest
state in Colombia.

Alene was a small steamer built in Glasgow, strong, solid and seaworthy. Found the board some
Colombian families heading to New York as well as numerous American and English from California
or South American Pacific ports.

Cross view of the island of Cuba, the Bahamas face and stopped to take coal one of the islands
of Barbados, these were all accidents of travel. My only entertainment on board was caring for a
child carrying a turpial Colombia.

The melodious bird paid me their attention with its melancholy whistle of a sweetness and depth.
Turpial throat has not this extraordinary Virtuosité nightingale or the canary, the agility he is unknown.
But his singing, equal and monotonous, is like those delicate pieces of music that always elicit
new sensations ... I concluded to take true love to turpial, it was for me a source of bitterness.
When anchored, a sailor who bothered cage for some maneuver unexpectedly placed on the boiler
that projected in the housing. In the time to go ashore, the poor girl, with the expansive
joy of arrival, came running taken from my hand to find the turpial ... The poor animal was
dying, half a roasted by the heat boiler, had the instinct to retreat into the water container all
the morning is put in the cage. From two doctors who came on board, just the last passenger,
all came up with twenty different remedies to no avail. The poor bird died a moment later. The little
girl was crying inconsolably and could not shake the turpial, who had pressed against the breast,
as if to give his life ... I walked like a fool in bridge, cursing at myself and my stupid sentimentality
that made me a hard time by the death of a turpial when I absorbed annually a number of birds
killed for my private use, with the most perfect peace of mind. I make an exception, however,
but does not refer to a bird. About two years ago not as a turtle. Here's why: One morning, up
the Magdalena, the boatmen had caught a huge turtle, whose shell, over, there would be less
than half a meter. As chance had fallen to the kitchen when I met one of the helpers on the way
to kill the turtle, but that barbarian, by dint of axes and machetes, tried to separate the body
from its shell without thinking about killing previously the poor animal, whose head hung and whose
eyes narrowed with each blow Axe ... She was removed from his hands, forced him to kill her
in the act, but I have not to try turtle!

* * * * *

On the morning of the eighth day, we saw, far yet, five or six small candles to the north and
west. They were pilots, in their small and fast yachts, with sometimes venturing up two and three
hundred miles from New York, running a real steeple-chase in search
of ships to drive the port.

       There are two rival companies, happily, explaining that request.

In fact, the port of New York is so well known and is so well marked, that masters not need the
help of the pilot to enter safely. But, as in case of a contrast always possible, insurance
companies do not pay if they have not taken all precautions, the character is indispensable. As
the wind was against them, had a good time watching the skillful maneuvers, the beautiful embroidered
made to gain ground, approaching the vapor. Finally, one of the yachts, when his opponent was only
twenty fathoms managed to grab a tie that he began to port and the other board tacked on the spot,
without any remarks and put forward a black dot visible on the horizon, some ship that was certainly
our route. A man with a full beard but no mustache, coat and top hat, serious and solemn,
appeared on the deck of the yacht, with a newspaper in his hand. This is the last issue of the
New York Herald who have taken before departure, to give away the captain. He who forgets that
requirement is sure to be shunned by the captain on the next trip by a simple maneuver, if the
number of his yacht (painted on the sail), is between likely candidates.

The arrival of the pilot is always an event on board, seems to have an air of city some aspect
of joy to the spirit land. Comes from among the living, you know what happened in the world, is the
embodiment of that hope of the arrival in recent days ago rough and violent ... We were all
crowded into the stairwell. The pilot waved seriously "What is new?" - Someone asked. "Garibaldi
is Died."

So I had the first news of the death of the hero of San Antonio. I do not know what made me more
of an impression, if the news itself or the way I got it. In 1870, when boarding the pilot to be
made Southampton port, he said, when asked about the news: "Charles Dickens is dead. " Upon my
return, in 1871, I also discovered a workable in a transit port, the death of Alexander Dumas.
These curious coincidences struck me in an inexplicable way, and since then I look at the practical
as birds of ill omen.

But who would get the New York Herald, after the captain? Serious issue. The wolf locked herself
in her room, and I think, not only read to the ads the very miserable, but Typographical errors
corrected until. When we succeed, we find nothing can satisfy our curiosity. It seems incredible that the
march of human affairs so monotonous, there are so few rail crash,
given the length of railway lines so rare and heinous crimes, given
the conditions of our friendly species.

Behold, at last, the famous port of New York. Undoubtedly, the deep cove, bordered capricious
hills, dotted with mountains, gleaming houses, villages and castles modern presents a charming
appearance. But no, it is the bay of Rio de Janeiro, the pride of tropical zone, with its
deep blue sky and waters, its mountains, palm trees and coconut trees,
islands smiling.

Nor is poetic and serene calm of the Gulf of Naples reflection of the soul of Virgil, who was impregnated
with this picture of heavenly peace. But to the truth, the New York Bay pleasantly surprised when
he walks the floor of the great nation american spirit only willing to contemplate the positive
side of human life the shows great industry, not natural beauties ...

All new, all fresh and rosy.
 She did her best
with the rents in his coat, made by the claws of Hooty the Owl and the teeth of Old Jed Thumper,
and so it wasn't long before Peter's coat looked nearly as good as new. Then, too, Peter was
getting enough to eat these days. Days and days had passed since he had seen Old Jed Thumper,
and this had given him time to eat and sleep.

Peter wondered what had become of Old Jed Thumper. "Perhaps something has happened to him,"
thought Peter. "I--I almost hope something has." Then, being ashamed of such a wish, he added,
"Something not very dreadful, but which will keep him from hunting me for a while and trying
to drive me out of the Old Pasture."

Now all this time Peter had been trying to find little Miss Fuzzytail. He was already in love
with her, although all he had seen of her were her two soft, gentle eyes, shyly peeping at
him from behind a big fern. He had wandered here and sauntered there, looking for her, but
although he found her footprints very often, she always managed to keep out of his sight, You
see, she knew the Old Pasture so much better than he did, and all the little paths in it, that
she had very little trouble in keeping out of his way. Then, too, she was very busy, for it
was she who was keeping her cross father, Old Jed Thumper, away from Peter, because she was
so sorry for Peter. But Peter didn't know this. If he had, I am afraid that he would have been
more in love than ever.

The harder she was to find, the more Peter wanted to find her. He spent a great deal of time
each day brushing his coat and making himself look as fine as he could, and while he was doing
it, he kept wishing over and over again that something would happen so that he could show little
Miss Fuzzytail what a smart, brave fellow he really was.

But one day followed another, and Peter seemed no nearer than ever to meeting little Miss Fuzzytail.
He was thinking of this one morning and was really growing very down-hearted, as he sat under
a friendly bramble-bush, when suddenly there was a sharp little scream of fright from behind
a little juniper-tree.

Somehow Peter knew whose voice that was, although he never had heard it before. He sprang around
the little juniper-tree, and what he saw filled him with such rage that he didn't once stop
to think of himself. There was little Miss Fuzzytail in the clutches of Black Pussy, Farmer
Brown's cat, who often stole away from home to hunt in the Old Pasture. Like a flash Peter
sprang over Black Pussy, and as he did so he kicked with all his might. The cat hadn't seen
him coming, and the kick knocked her right into the prickly juniper-tree. Of course she lost
her grip on little Miss Fuzzytail, who hadn't been hurt so much as frightened.

By the time the cat got out of the juniper-tree, Peter and Miss Fuzzytail were sitting side
by side safe in the middle of a bull-briar patch.

"Oh? how brave you are!" sobbed little Miss Fuzzytail.

And this is the way that Peter Rabbit at last got his heart's desire.

CHAPTER XVIII

TOMMY TIT PROVES A FRIEND INDEED

Nothing in all the world is so precious as a true friend.
                                          Peter Rabbit.

After Peter Rabbit had saved little Miss Fuzzytail from Black Pussy, the cat who belonged way
down at Farmer Brown's house and had no business hunting in the Old Pasture, he went with her
as near to her home as she would let him. She said that it wasn't necessary that he should
go a single step, but Peter insisted that she needed him to see that no more harm came to her.
Miss Fuzzytail laughed at that, for she felt quite able to take care of herself. It had been
just stupid carelessness on her part that had given Black Pussy the chance to catch her, she
said, and she was very sure that she never would be so careless again. What she didn't tell
Peter was that she had been so busy peeping at him and admiring him that she had quite forgotten
to watch out for danger for herself.

Finally she said that he could go part way with her. But when they were almost within sight
of the bull-briar castle of her father, Old Jed Thumper, the big, gray Rabbit who thought he
owned the Old Pasture, she made Peter turn back. You see, she was afraid of what Old Jed Thumper
might do to Peter, and--well, the truth is she was afraid of what he might do to her if he
should find out that she had made friends with Peter.

So Peter was forced to go back, but he took with him a half promise that she would meet him
the next night up near his sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture.

After that there were many pleasant days for Peter Rabbit. Sometimes little Miss Fuzzytail
would meet him, and sometimes she would shyly hide from, him, but somehow, somewhere, he managed
to see her every day, and so all the time in Peter's heart was a little song:

  "The sky is blue; the leaves are green;
   The golden sunbeams peep between;
   My heart is joyful as can be,
   And all the world looks bright to me."

And then one day Old Jed Thumper found out all about how his daughter, little Miss Fuzzytail,
and Peter Rabbit had become such good friends. Old Jed Thumper went into a terrible rage. He
chewed and chewed with nothing in his mouth, that is, nothing but his temper, the way an angry
Rabbit will. He vowed and declared that if he never ate another mouthful he would drive Peter
Rabbit from the Old Pasture.

My, my, my, those were bad days for Peter Rabbit! Yes, Sir, those certainly were bad days!
Old Jed Thumper had found out how little Miss Fuzzytail had been fooling him by making him
think Peter was in parts of the Old Pasture in quite the opposite direction from where he really
was. Worse still, he found Peter's favorite sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture
and would hide near it and try to catch Peter every time Peter tried to get a few minutes'
rest there. He did something worse than that.

One day he saw fierce Mr. Goshawk hunting. He let Mr. Goshawk almost catch him. and then ducked
under a bramble-bush. Then he showed himself again and once more escaped in the same way. So
he led fierce Mr. Goshawk to a point where Mr. Goshawk could look down and see Peter Rabbit
stretched out on his sunning-bank, trying to get a little rest. Right; away Mr. Goshawk forgot
all about Old Jed Thumper and sailed up in the sky from where he could swoop down on Peter,
while Old Jed Thumper, chuckling to himself wickedly, hid where he could watch what would happen.

That certainly would have been the last of Peter Rabbit if it hadn't been for Tommy Tit the
Chickadee. Tommy saw Mr. Goshawk and just in time warned Peter, and so Mr. Goshawk got only
his claws full of soft earth for his pains, while Old Jed Thumper once more chewed on nothing
in rage and disappointment. Dear me, dear me, those certainly were dreadful days for Peter
Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail. You see, all the time little Miss Fuzzytail was terribly
worried for fear Peter would be caught.

CHAPTER XIX

OLD MAN COYOTE PAYS A DEBT

 Some little seeds of goodness
   You'll find in every heart,
 To sprout and keep on growing
   When once they get a start.
                              Peter Rabbit.

Matters went from bad to worse with Peter Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail. Peter would have
made up his mind to go back to his old home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows,
but he felt that he just couldn't leave little Miss Fuzzytail, and little Miss Fuzzytail couldn't
make up her mind to go with Peter, because she felt that she just couldn't leave the Old Pasture,
which always had been her home. So Peter spent his days and nights ready to jump and run from
Jed Thumper, the gray old Rabbit who thought he owned the Old Pasture, and who had declared
that he would drive Peter out.

Now Peter, as you know, had an old friend in the Old Pasture, Tommy Tit the Chickadee. One
day Tommy took it into his head to fly down to the Green Meadows. There he found everybody
wondering what had become of Peter Rabbit, for you remember Peter had stolen away from the
dear Old Briar-patch in the night and had told no one where he was going.

Now one of the first to ask Tommy Tit if he had seen Peter Rabbit was Old Man Coyote. Tommy
told him where Peter was and of the dreadful time Peter was having, Old Man Coyote asked a
lot of questions about the Old Pasture and thanked Tommy very politely as Tommy flew over to
the Smiling Pool to call on Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat. Pretty soon he came to a bramble-bush,
and under it he could see Old Jed Thumper. For just a minute he chuckled, a noiseless chuckle,
to himself. Then he opened his mouth and out came that terrible sound which had so frightened
all the little people on the Green Meadows when Old Man Coyote had first come there to live.

"Ha, ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho!
 Hee, hee, hee! Ha, ho, hee, ho!"

Old Jed Thumper never had heard anything like that before. It frightened him so that before
he thought what he was doing he had jumped out from under the bramble-bush. Of course this
was just what Old Man Coyote wanted. In a flash he was after him, and then began such a race
as the Old Pasture never had seen before. Round and round, this way and that way, along the
cow paths raced Old Jed Thumper with Old Man Coyote at his heels, until at last, out of breath,
so tired that it seemed to him he couldn't run another step, frightened almost out of his senses,
Old Jed Thumper reached his bull-briar castle and was safe.

Then Old Man Coyote laughed his terrible laugh once more and trotted over to the tumble-down
stone-wall in which his keen nose told him Peter Rabbit was hiding.

"One good turn deserves another, and I always pay my debts, Peter Rabbit" said he. "You did
me a good turn some time ago down on the Green Meadows, when you told me how Granny and Reddy
Fox were planning to make trouble for me by leading Bowser the Hound to the place where I took
my daily nap, and now we are even. I don't think that old gray Rabbit will dare to poke so
much as his nose out of his bull-briar castle for a week. Now I am going back to the Green
Meadows, Good night, Peter Rabbit, and don't forget that I always pay my debts."

"Good night, and thank you, Mr. Coyote," said Peter, and then, when Old Man Coyote had gone,
he added to himself in a shame-faced way: "I didn't believe him when he said that he guessed
we would be friends."

CHAPTER XX

LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL WHISPERS "YES"

 Love is a beautiful, wonderful thing.
   There's nothing quite like it on all the
     green earth.

 'Tis love in the heart teaches birdies to sing,
   And gives the wide world all its joy and
     its mirth.
                                        Peter Rabbit.

Peter Rabbit was finding this out. Always he had been happy, for happiness had been born in
him. But the happiness he had known before was nothing to the happiness that was his when he
found that he loved little Miss Fuzzytail and that little Miss Fuzzytail loved him, Peter was
sure that she did love him, although she wouldn't say so. But love doesn't need words, and
Peter had seen it shining in the two soft, gentle eyes of little Miss Fuzzytail. So Peter was
happy in spite of the trouble that Old led Thumper, the big, gray Rabbit who was the father
of little Miss Fuzzytail, had made for him in the Old Pasture,

He had tried very hard, very hard indeed, to get little Miss Fuzzytail to go back with him
to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows, but in spite of all he could say she couldn't
make up her mind to leave the Old Pasture, which, you know, had been her home ever since she
was born. And Peter couldn't make up his mind to go back there and leave her, because--why,
because he loved her so much that he felt that he could never, never be happy without her.
Then, when Old Jed Thumper was hunting Peter so hard that he hardly had a chance to eat or
sleep, had come Old Man Coyote the Wolf and given Old Jed Thumper such a fright that for a
week he didn't dare poke so much as his nose out of his bull- briar castle.

Now, although Old Man Coyote didn't know it, his terrible voice had frightened little Miss
Fuzzytail almost as much as it had Old Jed Thumper. You see, she never had heard it before,
She didn't even know what it was, and all that night she had crouched in her most secret hiding-place,
shivering and shaking with fright. The next morning Peter had found her there. She hadn't slept
a wink, and she was still too frightened to even go look for her breakfast.

"Oh, Peter Rabbit, did you hear that terrible noise last night?" she cried.

"What noise?" asked Peter, just as if he didn't know anything about it.

"Why, that terrible voice!" cried little Miss Fuzzytail, and shivered at the thought of it.

"What was it like?" asked Peter.

"Oh, I can't tell you," said little Miss Fuzzy tall, "It wasn't like anything I ever had heard
before. It was something like the voice of Hooty the Owl and the voice of Dippy the Loon and
the voice of a little yelping dog all in one, and it was just terrible!"

"Oh?" replied Peter, "you must mean the voice of my friend. Old Man Coyote. He came up here
last night just to do me a good turn because I once did him a good turn."

Then he told all about how Old Man Coyote had come to the Green Meadows to live, and how he
was smarter than even old Granny Fox, but he didn't tell her how he himself had once been frightened
almost out of a year's growth by that terrible voice, or that it was because he hadn't really
believed that Old Man Coyote was his friend that had led him to leave the Old Briar-patch and
come up to the Old Pasture.

"Is--is he fond of Rabbits?" asked little Miss Fuzzytail.

Peter was quite sure that he was.

"And do you think he'll come up here hunting again?" she asked.

Peter didn't know, but he suspected that he would.

"Oh, dear," wailed little Miss Fuzzytail. "Now, I never, never will feel safe again!"

Then Peter had a happy thought. "I tell you what," said he, "the safest place in the world
for you and me is my dear Old Briar-patch, Won't you go there now?"

Little Miss Fuzzytail sighed and dropped a tear or two. Then she nestled up close to Peter.
"Yes," she whispered.

CHAPTER XXI

PETER AND LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL LEAVE THE OLD PASTURE

 A danger past is a danger past,
   So why not just forget it?
 Watch out instead for the one ahead
   Until you've safely met it,
                                        Peter Rabbit.

As soon as little Miss Fuzzytail had agreed to go with him to make her home in the dear Old
Briar-patch down on the Green Meadows, Peter Rabbit fairly boiled over with impatience to start,
He had had so much trouble in the Old Pasture that he was afraid if they waited too long little
Miss Fuzzytail might change her mind, and if she should do that--well, Peter didn't know what
he would do.

But Peter, who always had been so happy-go-lucky, with no one to think about but himself, now
felt for the first time re-sponsi-bil-ity. That's a big word, but it is a word that everybody
has to learn the meaning of sometime. Johnny Chuck learned it when he made a home for Polly
Chuck in Farmer Brown's orchard, and tried to keep it a secret, so that no harm would come
to Polly. It means taking care of other people or other people's things, and feeling that you
must take even greater care than you would of yourself or your own things, So, while Peter
himself would have been willing to take chances, and might even have made the journey down
to the dear Old Briar-patch in broad daylight, he felt that that wouldn't do at all for little
Miss Fuzzytail; that he must avoid every possible chance of danger for her.

So Peter waited for a dark night, not too dark, you know, but a night when there was no moon
to make great patches of light, but only the kindly little Stars looking down and twinkling
in the friendly way they have. At last there was just such a night. All the afternoon little
Miss Fuzzytail went about in the Old Pasture saying good-by to her friends and visiting each
one of her favorite little paths and hiding-places, and I suspect that in each one she dropped
a tear or two, for you see she felt sure that she never would see them again, although Peter
had promised that he would bring her back to the Old Pasture for a visit whenever she wanted
to come.

At last it was time to start. Peter led the way. Very big and brave and strong and important
he felt, and very timid and frightened felt little Miss Fuzzytail, hopping after him close
at his heels. You see, she felt that she was going out into the Great World, of which she knew
nothing at all.

"Oh, Peter," she whispered, "supposing we should meet Reddy Fox! I wouldn't know where to run
or hide."

"We are not going to meet Reddy Fox," replied Peter, "but if we should, all you have to do
is to just keep your eyes on the white patch on the seat of my trousers and follow me. I have
fooled Reddy so many times that I'm not afraid of him."

Never in all his life had Peter been so watchful and careful. That was because he felt his
re-sponsi-bil-ity. Every few jumps he would stop to sit up and look and listen. Then little
Miss Fuzzytail would nestle up close to him, and Peter's heart would swell with happiness,
and he would feel, oh, so proud and important. Once they heard the sharp bark of Reddy Fox,
but it was a long way off, and Peter smiled, for he knew that Reddy was hunting on the edge
of the Green Forest.

Once a dim shadow swept across the meadow grass ahead of them. Peter dropped flat in the grass
and kept perfectly still, and little Miss Fuzzytail did just as he did, as she had promised
she would.

"Wha--what was it?" she whispered.

"I think it was Hooty the Owl," Peter whispered back, "but he didn't see us." After what seemed
like a long, long time they heard Hooty's fierce hunting call, but it came from way back of
them on the edge of the Old Pasture. Peter hopped to his feet.

"Come on," said he. "There's nothing to fear from him now."

So slowly and watchfully Peter led the way down across the Green Meadows while the little Stars
looked down and twinkled in the most friendly way, and just as jolly, round, red Mr. Sun started
to kick off his bedclothes behind the Purple Hills they reached the dear Old Briar- patch.

"Here we are!" cried Peter. The sun burns
in these regions and encouraged with his shadow manzanillo voluptuous, full of perfumes. Young people
Yankees welcomed it, some through ignorance of its disastrous effects, others because, As
positive men, believed purely legendary reputation of the tree. Not only slept in its shade,
but flowers and ate sucked off prematurely. Came Barranquilla completely poisoned, and while they
managed to save her life, was not without being subject for long tenacissima intermittent fevers.

That
is the enemy against which we must fight every moment of fever.

The rich plant of those coasts, bathed by a blazing sun that makes the endless detritus of promoting
forests, the abundance of tropical fruits, to which the Western man's stomach is not used,
rapid changes in temperature, forced lack of precaution, unquenchable thirst that causes perspiration
than those who live in temperate regions no idea, natural recklessness abroad, are all elements
of probability fall under the terrible ague the banks of the Magdalena. And the saddest thing
is that condoms take all, in that climate, character of unbearable hardship. The fruit, water,
cold drinks, all that can be nice to wretch melts in such an atmosphere, is strictly prohibited
by the friendly advice native.

We arrived in Barranquilla, a small town about twenty thousand souls, to the left of Magdalena
and on one arm or pipe, as there call the lower branches of large
river.

Barranquilla has gained importance recently, since he built the railroad that links it to the
sea route has been forced to enter Colombia for the Atlantic removing thus all trade and transit
to the old colonial Cartagena and Santa Maria. There is nothing special about its construction, for
the most part, almost all of their houses have thatched roofs and offer the form of what we call
our land ranches. But certainly that little progress center on par with Colombia as a whole.
Streets all are of fine sand and thick, swirling lifting on what they call the sea ​​breeze and
often takes the proportions of a real storm. As temperature is unbearable. A Frenchman, M.
Andrieux, who has written for Le tour du Monde an accurate description of his travels in Colombia,
says that from the nine morning until five in the afternoon will not be seen on the streets
of Barranquilla, but dogs and some another Frenchman, who persists in maintaining the reputation
of the salamander, which has given in Cairo. It's a bit overblown, but the fact is that you
need an urgent need negligence or child to venture under the sun that heat wave that reverberated
in the white sand and burning, burning eyes, skin and pour roasted lead in the brain. It anxiously
awaiting the breeze, despite the drawbacks of impalpable dust that rises clouds. Everyone's car
when he is forced to leave, and the people is microscopic burrito vehicle on which the rider
is seated with feet flat and cheering on the neck with a small stick whose tip, slightly tapered,
insinuates frequently on the rump of the brave and patient squalid quadruped.

The appearance of the city is similar to European colonies on the African coast, weighing influence
on the spirit unnerving, overwhelming, and the least action necessary a powerful force. Since
I stepped off the coast of Colombia, I understand the anomaly of focusing the national civilization
in the Andean highlands, three hundred leagues the sea.

The European race needs time to acclimate to the banks of the Magdalena and the shores that
touch the Caribbean and the Pacific.

I arrived in Barranquilla on 20 December at half past three in the afternoon, at a time Magdalena
started for high steam Victoria, the best that crosses the river water. Was then I realized
all the evil that I had made the four-day delay of Saint-Simon, without
the permanence in Guaira, which, as past suffering, began to fade
into memory, especially, in the expectation that I reserved the future.

If Saint-Simon had reached Salgar on the day of your itinerary, we would have had time left
to do in Barranquilla all necessary preparations, and embarking on the Victoria, we had got
rid of the bitterness suffered in the Magdalena.

The preparations is a serious matter that requires extreme care. It is certainly impalpable necessary
to provide clothes, plus a good amount of wine and some food, because in the desert along the
river there are no resources of any kind, and finally, it is main, a mat and a mosquito net. Means
mat mat, and the dual purpose of this furniture is first put on the
canvas cot, by its terms of freshness, and then, tucked under the
four sides of the fly, to avoid the emergence of mosquitoes and gnats.

Victoria lost, had to wait until next vapor-mail, I only got to 30; ie, ten days in Barranquilla
useless. I knew then that 24 came a special vapor, but which did terrible conditions for travelers.
It is necessary to explain slightly what is the navigation of the Magdalena River, to realize that
it is essential precautions to undertake it. As I do a geography book and pretend to write
a scientific journey, be my one and only object simply enter my memories
and impressions in these light pages, I shall only say that the Magdalene,
along with the Cauca, are one of four large river systems in South
America, as determined by the different branches of the Andes, the
other three are: the Orinoco and its tributaries, the Amazon and theirs,
and finally the Plata, where they spill the Uruguay and Parana.

All other systems are secondary. The Spanish, to find the two rivers that were born together
and turned away then to irrigate vast and fertile regions and returned to join just before reaching
the sea to deliver its waters confused, I called Martha and Magdalene, in memory of the two Sisters
of the Gospel, only the second name prevailed, while the former retained the beautiful and euphonious
of Cauca, which the Indians had given him. In both the Magdalena is waterway, but if your water
flow is enormous, only in times of heavy rainfall no difficulty. The nature of the movable sand
bed and banks is amazing quickly on the huge logs that creeps into your course, caught by the current
undermined its banks, its extraordinary width at some points, which extend the water in what
is called ditches, without any depth, rarely more than four feet; constant variation in the
direction of the channels, determined by the movement of sands of which I spoke earlier, the
rapid, violent, called jets, where the current reaches up to fourteen and fifteen miles: here, and
only consign the main drawbacks with which it has struggled to establish a regular navigation
of the Magdalena only way to penetrate the interior. Thirty years ago, the river went back through
of champagne, that is, large thatched deck canoes on which the black bream, lying long punches
on pushing with his chest, drove the boat along the shore, amid shouts, insults and obscenities
who dared to work. The trip, this Thus, generally lasting three months, to which the patient
arrived at Honda, with thirty pounds less weight, torn to pieces by mosquitoes, hungry and crippled
by immobility in a position Aztec idol. Zárraga General, one of the oldest old honored to have
known, and Dr. Simon Zárraga father, who has made the earth Argentina his second home, told me in
Caracas in 1826, to be assistant of Bolivar, was sent by Liberator to drive the coast to Bogota
two French knights who came in diplomatic mission nearby. One of them was the son of the famous
Duke of Montebello. When knew it was necessary to go to the champagne, lie at the bottom, in
the same attitude a corpse and stay for two or three months, one of the diplomats began a vigorous
resistance, which could only beat Montebello recalling the duty and necessity. After have made that
trip, every time an old man I respect have taken place in his youth, and not infrequently,
in champagne, I look with awe and reverence with which the young Italian of 1831 should greet
Maroncelli, crossing the street on his wooden leg, or pale Silvio Pellico with the stamp of his
ten years of Spielberg engraved on the front.

Now it will be easy to understand the importance of the choice of steam to be tempted adventure.
You need a shallow draft vessel, not beached, and a lot of strength to overcome jets. The
Victoria had all these conditions, but ... The coming out on 24, was no Antioch unless the boat
heavier, larger and more substantial than in the Nile. Everyone advised us not to take it until
it was learned, and I assured the employer Antioch only mount up the Magdalena for four days,
being transported across their Roberto Calixto passengers, steam microscopic and very fast, which
would allow us to arrive at Honda at the end of normal voyage, that is, eight or nine days.
With these assurances, reinforced by the order that led the Victoria and Honda that he might return
in our search, and encouraged by the advantage of winning the five days I have had to wait
for take the steam of 30, I decided to bravely embarking on Antioch. Jupiter want to miss no doubt,
and I lost it at the time. Only two passengers were encouraged to follow: a Bogotá and the young
Swiss professor who was making his debut in America this strange way.

We must not forget that when I speak of the vapors from Magdalena, I mean a class ships that have
no idea in our country, where navigable rivers are deep. First, no keel, and your background looks
the same as that of the canoes; then have three floors, open to all winds and sustained by
pillars. The first form cover itself and is where all the rigging of the ship: the machine,
the kitchens, crew and especially wood. Above, is the site for passengers, the cabins, but no
one took the ladies, who, to avoid sleeping outdoors next to the male, roasted alive in the
cabins, the dining room, etc.. On the roof of this section, the chamber of the master, with views
in all directions, and up there on the cusp as a watchtower of our border, like a nest in the canopy
of a poplar tree, the hut of boat, where practical, fixed his eyes on the waters, to guess the
depth of your wrinkles, directs the ship and has in its hands the fate of those who go inside.
All this machine moves through a propeller coming out of the known systems of the propeller and
wheels side, the wheels are behind the ship, turning about a fixed axis one meter from the stern:
well, the ship concludes in his back, on a flat wall, perpendicular
to the water where they are loud crash when the pallets powerful waves.

The

Antioch, in addition to the drawbacks mentioned earlier, is to take your wheels on the sides, they
also produce a din that will make them believe browsing a mobile cataract, prevent, by printing
the ship oscillations in the difficult passages, it is sovereign in the ditches, that is, sliding
on the sand. Moreover, half the huge boiler reaches the passenger deck and the dining room is
located just above the burners. Add that the steam load is that there is no toilet on board,
the service is detestable, and there will be a nice idea skiff that slipped by Barranquilla pipe
in search of wide Magdalena.

I must say, in honor of my prophetic heart, as Hamlet would say that the first impression on
me a glimpse of the future was black. But the die was cast and will, calm and persistent,
watched to prevent any weakness. Just got out of the pipe and into the main branch the river, wide,
fast flowing, magnificent, we moored to the shore, to await the final orders agency.

It was there, during those six or seven hours, I realized the need to take key my stomach, and
forget my culinary tastes until further notice. The food served in these vapors is very bad
for a Colombian, but for a foreigner is really unbearable.

First, is served all at once even the soup, that is, a meat dish, usually salt, and when fresh,
hard as the skin of a hippopotamus, a source of lentils or beans, and bananas, boiled, roasted,
fried, sliced ​​... See Hotel Neptuno. When everything cooled, the bell is rung at the table, and
then begins the most terrifying struggle for existence those offered by the vast picture of the
animal creation. On the one hand, the imperative, brutal, to eat, the other the stomach that
refuses, pleading, debate, aided by the reflection of the boiler temperature rises to the point
of roasting a bird that dared across the atmosphere. The servants look like something out
of the water, not rinsed, the wheels which are contiguous, making
an infernal noise, which can not hear a word, devouring thirst can
only be appeased with warm water or wine even hotter ... Impossible!

It leaves the company, and when the weakness begins to produce stomach cramps, they go to Brandy,
who cheats at the moment, but that turns to appeal so that time has passed.

They also began studying the curious organization of the boatmen of Magdalena, which serve sailors
in the vapors, hired specifically for each trip.

Most are black or mulatto, but there are also catire (white) with a coppery complexion, shaded
by force that sun, is darker than our gauchos. So they embark, they are divided into two sections,
Samaria and Cartagena, that is, of Santa Marta and Cartagena, not responding originating point each,
but for the same reasons that ships overseas for the sake of domestic service, they separate the crew
on the port side and the starboard. The resistance of these men for the work burden that they imposed,
especially in this climate, thrift incredible, the way they sleep, naked, lying on the deck,
insensitive to the thousands of mosquitoes that cover them, their joy constant, its spontaneity to
work, I caused a growing admiration for each moment. The hardest tasks is the shipment of wood.
No steam coal navigate Magdalena; immense forests along its banks are abundant fuel for thirty
years, and mine is far from exhausted. The firewood is placed on the deserted shore, the ship
is approaching, moored to the shore and taking the number of donkeys that need. The donkey is the
unit of measurement and consists of a column of chips, at the height of a man who has, more
or less seventy pieces of wood of 0.75 centimeters. I noticed that every donkey should cost
a heavy weight, but I explained that exorbitant price where firewood is not worth anything
by the shortage of arms.

Those magnificent land, which sprout in abundance in its midst As the human imagination has dreamed
of the ideal picture of the tropics, could be called, in antithesis to the words of Alfieri,
the floor where the man is born weak and poor. All along the river is not only small and squalid
villages, where people veer in open huts, without further recourse to a banana tree that feeds them,
a gourd, whose fruit, a kind of squash, we provide all equipment necessary for life, and one or two
coconut trees. Children, naked, have a pot belly, custom to eat dirt. Fish is rare, the bathroom
unknown, the ferocious alligators life in short, impossible to understand for a European. The
few whites who have observed on the coast, have a pale color, earthy and seem spectra street.
The Fevers have consumed. The peoples on the river, even the most important Mompox, famous colonial
life, as in the struggles for independence; Magangue, which extend fairs his fame in the distance,
are stationary forever, while the river eats away the land on that are supported. How much is this
wonderful fertility, weather does not permit the development of the human race to be exploited?
As my eyes look with wonder at the dazzling box of that land, the spirit sadly notes that greatness
is nothing but a shroud tropical. Thus, Colombia took refuge in the hills, far, far away from
the sea and Europe, after the steep cliffs that make it difficult to access and there is the
center of civilization. Poetry has bathed in light, at the time of the last geological world, while
the lands washed by the silver appear to have arisen under the impact of the caduceus of Mercury.
There, the plains, the mildness of the climate, the proximity to the sea, the almost immediate
contact with the centers of civilization, here on the shores of death, isolation in the hills.
Bless the chance that was so beneficial to us in the American division, which gave us the regions
where the sunbeam hot coffee and soaking the fibers in the cane fields where wheat robust
and abundant springs. The Andean foothills to the playful and vigorous climbing vine, the hills
with veins of gold and marble meat, and finally, the fertile plains that stretch until the last
point south of the world that man inhabits. Bless this fortune, but proud of our progress is
not blind us to look with deep respect the generous efforts made by our brothers in the North to
reach it, defeating nature, splendid and terrible as a virgin wilderness.

I tend to believe that the name of a donkey as the unit of measure of wood, responded at first
the amount of it that one of these friendly animals could carry. In As for today, no donkey
could move under one of their namesakes.

A vapor anyone in the Magdalena spends forty to fifty donkeys daily wood, the Antioch consumes
twice, but instead goes half less than others. It is therefore very lasts the life of the sailors
aboard the steam insatiable, every two hours closes up the bank is tied tightly to resist
the current that drags and starts wood absorb an incredible greed. When the operation is done
in delicious morning, the poor boatmen jump for joy, but repeated throughout the day with Often in that
atmosphere candescente, under a blazing sun in our regions is difficult form an idea, is a real
martyrdom. A long iron vessel attached to the shore, by way bridge. The sailors, naked from the waist,
with a bag attached to the head, falling on the back like an immense hood, down to earth, are
in the space between the neck, shoulder and left arm, an incredible amount of chips, hold with
a rope tied on the wrist free, and buckling under the weight, laboriously climbing steamed and
shed its load near the stove. Those who feed these are called candlesticks by a curious analogy.

At
times the river has risen and fuel tanks are under water, taking the rowers to work with half the
body submerged. Rare is the occasion when working in dry, which is not interrupt to kill extremely
poisonous snakes hide in firewood. But when it is under water, have no defense, being further
exposed -sting rays ...

Finally released, we set in motion.

Began the arduous journey in a sense complex that kept my spirit in that nervous restlessness
that precedes a consideration in adolescence to a duel in youth, a long-awaited moment in all
ages.

First Instead, a lively curiosity and burning, then the idea that each hour's walk away me three
of the country, and above the tremors of the body by physical tortures glimpse, serious concerns
that responded to my official position, have nothing to intimate view these pages.

So we knew our position and destination, some passengers on points near me let see a frank and
sincere sympathy.
 I am sure some
friends of mine are here, but I haven't been able to find them."

"No," said the stranger, who was, of course, Mistah Mocker the Mockingbird. "I haven't seen
any one here, and I don't think there has been any one here but myself."

"Oh, yes, indeed there has!" cried little Mrs. Peter. "I heard their voices, and I couldn't
possibly be mistaken in those, especially the beautiful voice of Veery the Thrush, I--I would
like very much to find them."

Mistah Mocker had the grace to look ashamed of himself when saw how disappointed little Mrs.
Peter was. Very softly he began to sing the song of Veery the Thrush.

Little Mrs. Peter looked up quickly. "There it is!" she cried. "There"-- she stopped with her
mouth gaping wide open. She suddenly realized that it was Mistah Mocker who was singing.

"I--I'm very sorry," he stammered. "I did it just for a joke and not to make you feel bad.
Will you forgive me?"

"Yes," replied little Mrs. Peter, "if you will come here often at shadow-time and sing to me."
And Mistah Mocker promised that he would.

CHAPTER XXVIII

NEWS FROM THE OLD BRIAR-PATCH

 To use your eyes is very wise
   And much to be commended;
 But never see what cannot be
   For such as you intended.
                           Peter Rabbit.

Jenny Wren is a busybody. Yes, Sir, she certainly is a busybody. If there is anything going
on in her neighborhood that she doesn't know about, it isn't because she doesn't try to find
out. She is so small and spry that it is hard work to keep track of her, and she pops out at
the most unexpected times and places. Then, before you can say a word, she is gone.

And in all the Old Orchard or on the Green Meadows there is not to be found another tongue
so busy as that of Jenny Wren. It is sharp sometimes, but when she wants it to be so there
is none smoother. You see she is a great gossip, is Jenny Wren, a great gossip. But if you
get on the right side of Jenny Wren and ask her to keep a secret, she'll do it. No one knows
how to keep a secret better than she does.

How it happened nobody knows, but it did happen that when Peter Rabbit came home to the clear
Old Briar-patch, bringing Mrs. Peter with him, Jenny Wren didn't hear about it. Probably it
was because the new home which she had just completed was so carefully hidden that the messengers
sent by Peter to invite all his friends to call didn't find it, and afterward she was so busy
with household affairs that she didn't have time to gossip. Anyway, Peter had been back some
time before Jenny Wren knew it. She was quite upset to think that she was the last to hear
the news, but she consoled herself with the thought that she had been attending strictly to
her duties, and now that her children were able to look out for themselves she could make up
for lost time.

Just as soon as she could get away, she started for the Old Briar-patch. She wanted to hear
all about Peter's adventures in the Old Pasture and to meet Mrs. Peter. But like a great many
other busybodies, she wanted to find out all she could about Peter's affairs, and she thought
that the surest way to do it was not to let Peter know that she was about until she had had
a chance to use her sharp little eyes all she wanted to. So when she reached the Old Briar-patch,
she didn't make a sound. It didn't take her long to find Peter. He was sitting under one of
his favorite bramble-bushes smiling to himself. He smiled and smiled until Jenny Wren had to
bite her tongue to keep from asking what was pleasing him so.

"He looks tickled almost to death over something, but very likely if I should ask him what
it is he wouldn't tell me," thought Jenny Wren. "I guess I'll look around a bit first. I wonder
where Mrs. Peter is."

So leaving Peter to smile to his heart's content, she went peeking and peering through the
Old Briar-patch. Of course it wasn't a nice thing to do, not a bit nice. But Jenny Wren didn't
stop to think of that. By and by she saw something that made her flutter all over with excitement.
She looked and looked until she could sit still no longer. Then she hurried back to where Peter
was sitting. He was still smiling.

"Oh, Peter Rabbit, it's perfectly lovely!" she cried.

Peter looked up quickly, and a worried look chased the smile away. "Hello, Jenny Wren! Where
did you come from? I haven't seen you since I got back," said he.

"I've been so busy that I haven't had time to call before," replied Jenny. "I know what you've
been smiling about, Peter, and it's perfectly splendid. Has everybody heard the news?"

"No," said Peter, "nobody knows it but you, and I don't want anybody else to know it just yet.
Will you keep it a secret, Jenny Wren?"

Now Jenny was just bursting with desire to spread the news, but Peter looked so anxious that
finally she promised that she would keep it to herself, and she really meant to. But though
Peter looked greatly relieved as he watched her start for home, he didn't smile as he had before.
"I wish her tongue didn't wag so much," said he.

CHAPTER XXIX

JIMMY SKUNK VISITS PETER RABBIT

 It's hard to keep a secret which you fairly ache to tell;
 So not to know such secrets is often quite as well.
                                        Peter Rabbit.

On her way home from the Old Briar-patch, Jenny Wren stopped to rest in a bush beside the Crooked
Little Path that comes down the hill, when who should come along but Jimmy Skunk. Now just
as usual Jenny Wren was fidgeting and fussing about, and Jimmy Skunk grinned as he watched her.

"Hello, Jenny Wren!" said he. "What are you doing here?"

"I'm resting on my way home from the Old Briar-patch, if you must know, Jimmy Skunk!" replied
Jenny Wren, changing her position half a dozen times while she was speaking.

"Ho, ho, ho!" laughed Jimmy Skunk. "Do you call that resting! That's a joke, Jenny Wren. Resting!
Why, you couldn't sit still and rest if you tried!"

"I could so! I'm resting right now, so there, Jimmy Skunk!" protested Jenny Wren in a very
indignant tone of voice, and hopped all over the little bush while she was speaking. "I guess
if you knew what I know, you'd be excited too."

"Well, I guess the quickest way for me to know is for you to tell me," replied Jimmy. "I'm
just aching to be excited."

Jimmy grinned, for you know Jimmy Skunk never does get excited and never hurries, no matter
what happens.

"You'll have to keep right on aching then," replied Jenny Wren, with a saucy flirt of her funny
little tail. "There's great news in the Old Briar-patch, and I'm the only one that knows it,
but I've promised not to tell."

Jimmy pricked up his ears. "News in the Old Briar-patch must have something to do with Peter
Rabbit," said he. "What has Peter done now?"

"I'll never tell! I'll never tell!" cried Jenny Wren, growing so excited that it seemed to
Jimmy as if there was danger that she would turn herself inside out. "I promised not to and
I never will!" Then, for fear that she would in spite of herself, she flew on her way home.

Jimmy watched her out of sight with a puzzled frown. "If I didn't know that she gets so terribly
excited over nothing, I'd think that there really is some news in the Old Briar-patch," he
muttered to himself. "Anyway, I haven't anything better to do, so I believe I'll drop around
that way and make Peter Rabbit a call."

He found Peter in some sweet clover just outside the Old Briar-patch, and it struck Jimmy that
Peter looked uncommonly happy. He said as much.

"I am," replied Peter, before he thought. Then he added hastily, "You see, I've been uncommonly
happy ever since I returned with Mrs. Peter from the Old Pasture."

"But I hear there's great news over here in the Old Briar-patch," persisted Jimmy Skunk. "What
is it, Peter?"

Peter pretended to be very much surprised. "Great news!" he repeated. "Great news! Why, what
news can there be over here? Who told you that?"

"A little bird told me," replied Jimmy slyly.

"It must have been Jenny Wren!" said Peter, once more speaking before he thought.

"Then there IS news over here!" cried Jimmy triumphantly. "What is it, Peter?"

But Peter shook his head as if he hadn't the slightest idea and couldn't imagine. Jimmy coaxed
and teased, but all in vain. Finally he started for home no wiser than before.

"Just the same, I believe that Jenny Wren told the truth and that there is news over in the
Old Briar-patch," he muttered to himself. "Something has happened over there, and Peter won't
tell. I wonder what it can be."

CHAPTER XXX

REDDY FOX LEARNS THE SECRET

 Nothing that you ever do,
   Nothing good or nothing bad,
 But has effect on other folks--
   Gives them pain or makes them glad.
                                  Peter Rabbit.

Of course Jenny Wren didn't mean to tell the secret of the Old Briar- patch, because she had
promised Peter Rabbit that she wouldn't. But she didn't see any harm in telling every one she
met that there was a secret there, at least that there was great news there, and so, because
Jenny Wren is a great gossip, it wasn't long before all the little people on the Green Meadows
and in the Green Forest and around the Smiling Pool had heard it and were wondering what the
news could be.

After Jimmy Skunk's visit came a whole string of visitors to the Old Briar-patch. One would
hardly have left before another would appear. Each one tried to act as if he had just happened
around that way and didn't want to pass Peter's home without making a call, but each one asked
so many questions that Peter knew what had really brought him there was the desire to find
out what the news in the Old Briar-patch could be. But Peter was too smart for them, and they
all went away no wiser than they came, that is, all but one, and that one was Reddy Fox.

There isn't much going on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that Reddy doesn't know
about. He is sly, is Reddy Fox, and his eyes are sharp and his ears are keen, so little happens
that he doesn't see or hear about. Of course he heard the foolish gossip of Jenny Wren and
he pricked up his ears.

"So there's news down in the Old Briar-patch, is there? A secret that Jenny Wren won't tell?
I think I'll trot down there and make Peter a call. Of course he'll be glad to see me."

Reddy grinned wickedly as he said this to himself, for he knew that there was no one for whom
Peter Rabbit had less love, unless it was old Granny Fox.

So Reddy trotted down to the Old Briar-patch. Peter saw him coming and scowled, for he guessed
right away what Reddy was coming for, and he made ready to answer all Reddy's questions and
still tell him nothing, as he had with all the others who had called.

But Reddy asked no questions. He didn't once mention the fact that he had heard there was news
in the Old Briar-patch. He didn't once speak of Jenny Wren. He just talked about the weather
and the Old Pasture, where Peter had made such a long visit, and all the time was as pleasant
and polite as if he and Peter were the dearest of friends.

But while he was talking, Reddy was using those sharp eyes and those keen ears of his the best
he knew how. But the Old Briar-patch was very thick, and he could see only a little way into
it, and out of it came no sound to hint of a secret there. Then Reddy began to walk around
the Old Briar-patch in quite the most matter-of-fact way, but as he walked that wonderful nose
of his was testing every little breath of air that came out of the Old Briar-patch. At last
he reached a certain place where a little stronger breath of air tickled his nose. He stopped
for a few minutes, and slowly a smile grew and grew. Then, without saying a word, he turned
and trotted back towards the Green Forest.

Peter Rabbit watched him go. Then he joined Mrs. Peter in the heart of the Old Briar-patch.
"My dear," he said, with a sigh that was almost a sob, "Reddy Fox has found out our secret."

"Never mind," said little Mrs. Peter brightly. "It would have to be found out soon, anyway."

Trotting back up the Lone Little Path, Reddy Fox was grinning broadly. "It IS news!" said he.
"Jenny Wren was right, it IS news! But I don't believe anybody else knows it yet, and I hope
they won't find it out right away, least of all Old Man Coyote. What a wonderful thing a good
nose is! It tells me what my eyes cannot see nor my ears hear."

CHAPTER XXXI

BLACKY THE CROW HAS SHARP EYES

 Mischief always waits to greet
 Idle hands and idle feet.
                              Peter Rabbit.

That is what a lot of people say about Blacky the Crow. Of course it is true that Blacky does
get into a lot of mischief, but if people really knew him they would find that he isn't as
black as he looks. In fact, Blacky the Crow does a whole lot of good in his own peculiar way,
but people are always looking for him to do bad things, and you know you most always see what
you expect to see. Thus the good Blacky does isn't seen, while the bad is, and so he has grown
to have a reputation blacker than the coat he wears.

But this doesn't worry Blacky the Crow. No, Sir, it doesn't worry him a bit. You see he has
grown used to it. And then he is so smart that he is never afraid of being caught when he does
do wrong things. No one has sharper eyes than Blacky, and no one knows better how to use them.
There is very little going on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that he misses when
he is about.

The day after Reddy Fox visited the Old Briar-patch and with his wonderful nose found out Peter
Rabbit's secret, Blacky just happened to fly over the Old Briar-patch on his way to Farmer
Brown's cornfield. Now, being over the Old Briar-patch, he could look right down into it and
see all through it. Just as he reached it, he remembered having heard Sammy Jay say something
about gossipy little Jenny Wren's having said that there was great news there. He hadn't thought
much about it at the time, but now that he was right there, he might as well have a look for
himself and see if there was any truth in it.

So Blacky the Crow flew a little lower, and his sharp eyes looked this way and that way through
all the bramble-bushes of the Old Briar-patch. He saw Peter Rabbit right away and winked at
him. He thought Peter looked worried and anxious.

"Peter must have something on his mind," thought Blacky. "I wonder where Mrs. Peter is."

Just then he caught sight of her under the thickest growing sweet-briar bush. He had opened
his mouth to shout, "Hello, Mrs. Peter," when he saw something that surprised him so that he
didn't speak at all. He almost forgot to flap his wings to keep himself in the air. He hovered
right where he was for a few minutes, looking down through the brambles. Then with a hoarse
chuckle, he started for the Smiling Pool, forgetting all about Farmer Brown's cornfield. "Caw,
caw, caw!" he shrieked, "Peter Rabbit's got a family! Peter Rabbit's got a family!"

Reddy Fox heard him and ground his teeth. It is an old man who knows half
world and know more than Lycurgus. He has traveled to Chile, Bolivia and Peru, and know every
inch the land where these hours have to be fighting armies.

I got curious, I sat up in bed and said aloud: - "Don Salvador, if not very sleepy, you want
to get a little? Take a mate and chat "Don Salvador .-- up immediately, rolled back the stone
she sat up close to me, and smiling sat down again.

- Imagine, Don
Salvador, who for three long days that I walk between the hills, alone
and deploy the lips, because the others are always behind.

- We are
accustomed, sir.

But once, many years ago, I too, in a long trip, I got tired of walking alone, find a partner
(which would not have more worth found!), and put me in a case that
I have not ever forget.

- Was he a villain?

- No, sir, but if you
have patience, I'll tell how it was that, so that later you tell it,
but do not believe it.

But I swear it's true, and if not, ask about it in Peru friends say where you go.

Don Salvador was when I told the curious adventure, which I started
writing again I could hardly, in my plain and simple style, not daring
to imitate the special language picturesque and adorned the narrator.

Don Salvador was in San Juan, in his youth as a laborer, had traveled almost the whole Republic
mules driving from one point to another, under the orders of a foreman.

Thus as found in Salta, where he came to serve an old and known carrier. There was few years,
then, always in his office, went to Peru, he made a small capital is well the game soon dissipated,
is forced to return to work, took the chasqui profession or own for
which he did indefatigable strength suitable for horseback riding,
or more properly, mule.

But that office, in a land where the Indian and running more quickly than the beast and can pass
through places where it does not risk, it was not very lucrative indeed. No is my purpose
to narrate the vicissitudes of the life of Don Salvador, how the interior of Peru passed to
the coast, and later became a miner in Copiapo, then going back to the Republic Argentina and
finally occupied the honorable position of mail that played for ten years.

It was one of those trips as chasqui when the case came up he was referring.


"It isn't time to worry yet," said Peter to little Mrs. Peter, as he saw the fright in her
eyes as the shadow of Redtail passed over them. "I don't believe in borrowing trouble. Time
enough to worry when there is something to worry about, and that won't be until these little
scallawags of ours are big enough to run around and get into mischief. Did you ever see such
beautiful babies in all your life?"

For a minute the worried look left little Mrs. Peter, and she gazed at the four little helpless
babies fondly. "No," she replied softly, "I never did. Oh, Peter, they are perfectly lovely!
This one is the perfect image of you, and I'm going to call him Little Pete. And don't you
think his brother looks like his grandfather? I think we'll call him Little Jed."

Peter coughed behind his hand as if something had stuck in his throat. He had no love for Little
Jed's grandfather, Old Jed Thumper, the big, gray, old Rabbit who had tried so hard to drive
him from the Old Pasture, but he didn't say anything. If Mrs. Peter wanted to name this one
Little Jed, he wouldn't say a word. Aloud he said:

"I think, my dear, that this one looks just as you must have looked when you were little, and
so we'll call her Fuzzy. And her sister we'll call Wuzzy," continued Peter. "Was ever there
such a splendid nursery for baby Rabbits?"

"I don't believe there ever was, Peter. It's better than my old nursery in the Old Pasture,"
replied little Mrs. Peter, as with a sigh of perfect happiness she stretched out beside their
four babies.

And Peter softly tiptoed away to the nearest sweet-clover patch with his heart almost bursting
with pride.

Of the doings of Peter and Mrs. Peter Rabbit and their four children there are many more stories,
so many that one book will not hold all of them. Besides, Bowser the Hound insists that I must
write a book about him, and I have promised to do it right away. So the next book will be Bowser
the Hound.

