Changes were setting in all this time.  The rick-burnings, in which so many foolish persons
indulged, was going on in 1831 in many parts of Hampshire.  They were caused partly by dislike
to the threshing machines that were beginning to be used, and partly by the notion that such
disturbances would lead to the passing of the Reform Bill, which ignorant men believed would
give every poor man a fat pig in his stye.  There was no rick-burning here, though some of
the villagers joined the bands of men who wandered about the country demanding money and arms
at the large houses.  But, happily, none of them were actually engaged in any violence, and
none of them swelled the calendar of the Special Assize that took place at Winchester for the
trial of the rioters.

One poor maid-servant in the parish, from the North of Hampshire, had, however, two brothers,
who were intelligent men of some education, and who, having been ringleaders, were both sentenced
to death.  The sentence was, however, commuted to transportation for life.  At Sydney, being
of a very different class from the ordinary convict, they prospered greatly, and their letters
were very interesting.  They were wonderful feats of penmanship, for postage from Australia
was ruinously expensive, and they filled sheets of paper with writing that could hardly be
read without a microscope.  If we had those letters now they would be curious records of the
early days of the Colony, but all now recollected is the account of a little kangaroo jumping
into a hunter's open shirt, thinking it was his mother's pouch.

The Reform Bill, after all, when passed made no present difference in Otterbourne life--nothing
like the difference that a measure a few years after effected, namely, the Poor-law Amendment
Bill.  Not many people here remember the days of the old Poor-law, when whatever a pauper family
wanted was supplied from the rates, and thus an idle man often lived more at his ease on other
people's money than an industrious man on his own earnings.  It was held that if wages were
small they might be helped out of the rates, and thus the ratepayers were often ruined.  In
the midst of the street stood the old Poorhouse.  It had no governor nor anyone to see that
order was kept or work done there, and everybody that was homeless, or lazy, or disreputable,
drifted in there.  They went in and out as they pleased, and had a weekly allowance of money.
Now and then there was a great row among them.  One room was inhabited by an old man named
Strong, who was considered a wonder because he ate adders cut up like eels and stewed with
a bit of bacon.  Every now and then a message would come in that old Strong had got a couple
of nice adders and wanted a bit of bacon to cook with them.  Then there was a large family
whose father never worked for any one long together, and lived in the Workhouse, with a wife
and six or seven children, supported by the parish.  These people were pursuaded to go to Manchester,
where there was sure to be work in the factories for all their many girls.  The men in receipt
of parish pay were supposed to have work found for them on the roads, but there was not much
of this to employ them, and as they were paid all the same whether they worked or not, some
were said to hammer the stones as if they were afraid of hurting them, or to make the wheeling
a couple of barrows of chalk their whole day's work.

A good deal depended on the vestry management of each parish, and there was less of flagrant
idleness supported by the rates here than at many places.  There was also a well-built and
arranged Workhouse at Hursley, and the Poor law Commissioners consented to make one small Union
of Hursley, Otterbourne, Farley, and Baddesley, instead of throwing them into a large one.

The discontinuance of out-door relief to help out the wages was a great shock at first, but,
when the ratepayers were no longer weighed down, they could give more work and better wages,
and the labourers thus profited in the end, and likewise began to learn more independence.
Still the times were hard then.  Few families could get on unless the mother as well as the
father did field work, and thus she had no time to attend thoroughly to making home comfortable,
mending the clothes, or taking care of the little ones.  The eldest girl was kept at home dragging
about with the baby, and often grew rough as well as ignorant, and the cottage was often very
little cared for.  The notion of what was comfortable and suitable was very different then.

The country began to be intersected by railways, and the South-Western line was marked out
to Southampton.  The course was dug out from Shawford and Compton downs, and the embankment
made along our valley.  It was curious to see the white line creeping on, as carts filled with
chalk ran from the diggings to the end, tipped over their contents, and returned again.  When
the foundations were dug for the arch spanning the lane the holes filled with water as fast
as they were made, and nothing could be done till the two long ditches had been dug to carry
off the water to Allbrook.  In the course of making them in the light peaty earth, some bones
of animals and (I believe) stags' horns were found, but unluckily, were thrown away, instead
of being shown to anyone who would have made out from them much of the history of the formation
of the boggy earth that forms the water meadows.

{The Old Church, Otterbourne: p32.jpg}

It is amusing to remember the kind of dread that was felt at first of railway travelling. 
It was thought that the engines would blow up, and, as an old coachman is reported to have
said, "When a coach is overturned, there you are; but when an engine blows up, where are you?"
He certainly was so far right that a coach accident was fatal to fewer persons than a railway
accident generally is.

The railway passed so near the old Church that the noise of the trains would be inconvenient
on Sundays.  At least, so thought those with inexperienced ears, though many a Church has since
been built much nearer to the line.  However, this fixed the purpose that had already been
forming, of endeavouring to build a new Church.  The first idea had been of trying to raise
300 pounds to enlarge the old Church, but the distance from the greater part of the parish
was so inconvenient, and the railroad so near, that the building of a new Church was finally
decided on.  There really was not room for the men and boys at the same time on the backless
forms they occupied between the pews in the chancel.  Moreover, if a person was found sitting
in a place to which another held that he or she had a right, the owner never thought of looking
for another place elsewhere, and the one who was turned out went away displeased, and declared
that it was impossible to come to church for fear of "being upset."  It is strange and sad
that people are so prone to forget what our Master told us about "taking the highest room,"
even in His own House.

But besides the want of accommodation, the old Church was at an inconvenient distance from
the parish.  No doubt there had once been more houses near, but when the cottage inhabited
by old Aaron Chalk was pulled down, nothing remained near but Otterbourne Farm and the Moat
House. Every one living elsewhere had to walk half a mile, some much more, and though Kiln
Lane was then much better shaded with fine trees than it is now, it was hard work on a hot
or wet Sunday to go twice.  Some of us may recollect one constant churchgoer, John Rogers,
who was so lame as to require two sticks to walk with, and had to set out an hour beforehand,
yet who seldom missed.

Just at this time the Reverend John Keble became Vicar of Hursley, and Otterbourne, and forwarded
the plan of church building with all his might.

Few new churches had been built at that time, so that there was everything to be learnt, while
subscriptions were being collected from every quarter.  Magdalen College, at Oxford, gave the
site as well as a handsome subscription, and every endeavour was made to render the new building
truly church like.  It was during the building that Dr. Rowth, the President of Magdalen College,
coming to hold his court at the Moat House, had the model of the church brought out to him
and took great interest in it.  He is worth remembering, for he was one of the wisest and most
learned men in Oxford, and he lived to be nearly a hundred years old.  Church building was
a much more difficult thing then than it is now, when there are many architects trained in
the principles of church building, and materials of all kinds are readily provided.

The cross form was at once fixed on as most suitable; and the little bell turret was copied
from one at a place called Corston.  Mr. Owen Carter, an architect at Winchester, drew the
plans, with the constant watching and direction of Mr. Yonge, who attended to every detail.
The white stone, so fit for carving decorations, which had been used in the Cathedral, is imported
from Caen, in Normandy.  None had been brought over for many years, till a correspondence was
opened with the people at the quarries, and blocks bought for the reredos and font.  Now it
is constantly used.

The panels of the pulpit, with the carvings of the Blessed Virgin, and the four Latin fathers,
SS. Ambrose, Augustine, Jerome, and Gregory the Great, were found in a shop for antiquities
in London.  The shape was adapted to a sounding board, which had been made for the Cathedral,
but was rejected there.  The altar-rail also was found in a shop.  It must previously have
been in a church, as it has the sacramental corn and grapes.  It is thought to be old Flemish
work, and represents a prince on one side with a crown laid down, as he kneels in devotion,
and some ladies on the opposite side.  The crown is an Emperor's, and there is the collar of
the Golden Fleece round his neck, so that it is probably meant for either the Emperor Maximilian
or his grandson, Charles V.  One of the gentlemen kneeling behind the Emperor has a beautiful
face of adoration.

The building of the Church took about two years, the first stone being laid at the north-east
corner.  It was begun on the 16th of May, 1837, and it was ready for consecration on the 30th
of July, 1839.  The building had been prosperous, the only accident being the crushing of a
thumb when the pulpit was set in its place.

The new boys' school was built at the same time, the archway of the south door of the old Church
being used for the doorway, so as to preserve the beautiful and peculiar decoration, and the
roof was lined with the doors and backs of the old oak-pewing.  In the flints collected for
the building of this and of the wall round the churchyard there was a water wagtail's nest
in which a young cuckoo was reared, having, of course, turned out the rightful nestling.  Probably
it flew safely, for the last time it was seen its foster parents were luring it out with green
caterpillars held a little way from the nest.

The expense of the building of the boys' school and of a new room for the girls was defrayed
chiefly by a bazaar held at Winchester.  There were at that time no Education Acts nor Government
requirements, and the buildings would be deemed entirely unfit at this time even for the numbers
who then used them, and who did not amount to more than between thirty and forty boys and fifty
or sixty girls and infants, together about a third of the present numbers at school in Otterbourne
and Allbrook.  Miss Tucker was then the mistress; Master Oxford still the master.

