He remained a considerable time undergoing the process of initiation, and succeeded at last
in being of the private parties that some of the important Jansenists then held once or twice
a week at the house of the Duchesse de Brancas.  I know not if he appeared too clever for them,
or if he hoped elsewhere for better things than he could get among people who had only sores
to share; but little by little his intimacy with them cooled; and by dint of turning around
Saint Sulpice, he succeeded in forming another connection there, upon which he built greater
expectations.  This society of priests was beginning to distinguish itself, and from a seminary
of a Paris parish to extend abroad. Ignorance, the minuteness of their practices, the absence
of all patrons and of members at all distinguished in any way, inspired them with a blind obedience
to Rome and to all its maxims; with a great aversion for everything that passed for Jansenism,
and made them so dependent upon the bishops that they began to be considered an acquisition
in many dioceses. They appeared a middle party, very useful to the prelates; who equally feared
the Court, on account of suspicions of doctrine, and the Jesuits for as soon as the latter
had insinuated themselves into the good graces of the prelates, they imposed their yoke upon
them, or ruined them hopelessly;--thus the Sulpicians grew apace.  None amongst them could
compare in any way with the Abbe de Fenelon; so that he was able easily to play first fiddle,
and to make for himself protectors who were interested in advancing him, in order that they
might be protected in turn.

His piety, which was all things to all men, and his doctrine that he formed upon theirs (abjuring,
as it were, in whispers, the impurities he might have contracted amongst those he had abandoned)--the
charms, the graces, the sweetness, the insinuation of his mind, rendered him a dear friend
to this new congregation, and procured for him what he had long sought, people upon whom he
could lean, and who could and would serve. Whilst waiting opportunities, he carefully courted
these people, without thinking, however, of positively joining them, his views being more ambitious;
so that he ever sought to make new acquaintances and friends. His was a coquettish mind, which
from people the most influential down to the workman and the lackey sought appreciation and
was determined to please; and his talents for this work perfectly seconded his desires.

At this time, and while still obscure, he heard speak of Madame Guyon, who has since made so
much noise in the world, and who is too well known to need that I should dwell upon her here.
He saw her.  There was an interchange of pleasure between their minds.  Their sublimes amalgamated.
I know not if they understood each other very clearly in that system, and that new tongue which
they hatched subsequently, but they persuaded themselves they did, and friendship grew up between
them.  Although more known than he, Madame Guyon was nevertheless not much known, and their
intimacy was not perceived, because nobody thought of them; Saint Sulpice even was ignorant
of what was going on.

The Duc de Beauvilliers became Governor of the children of France almost in spite of himself,
without having thought of it.  He had to choose a preceptor for Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne.
He addressed himself to Saint Sulpice, where for a long time he had confessed, for he liked
and protected it.  He had heard speak of Fenelon with eulogy: the Sulpicians vaunted his piety,
his intelligence, his knowledge, his talents; at last they proposed him for preceptor.  The
Duc de Beauvilliers saw him, was charmed with him, and appointed him to the office.

As soon as installed, Fenelon saw of what importance it would be to gain the entire favour
of the Duc de Beauvilliers, and of his brother-in-law the Duc de Chevreuse, both very intimate
friends, and both in the highest confidence of the King and Madame de Maintenon.  This was
his first care, and he succeeded beyond his hopes, becoming the master of their hearts and
minds, and the director of their consciences.

Madame de Maintenon dined regularly once a week at the house of one or other of the two Dukes,
fifth of a little party, composed of the two sisters and the two husbands,--with a bell upon
the table, in order to dispense with servants in waiting, and to be able to talk without restraint.
Fenelon was at last admitted to this sanctuary, at foot of which all the Court was prostrated.
He was almost as successful with Madame de Maintenon as he had been with the two Dukes.  His
spirituality enchanted her: the Court soon perceived the giant strides of the fortunate Abbe,
and eagerly courted him.  But, desiring to be free and entirely devoted to his great object,
he kept himself aloof from their flatteries--made for himself a shield with his modesty and
his duties of preceptor--and thus rendered himself still more dear to the persons he had captivated,
and that he had so much interest in retaining in that attachment.

Among these cares he forgot not his dear Madame Guyon; he had already vaunted her to the two
Dukes and to Madame de Maintenon.  He had even introduced her to them, but as though with difficulty
and for a few moments, as a woman all in God, whose humility and whose love of contemplation
and solitude kept her within the strictest limits, and whose fear, above all, was that she
should become known.  The tone of her mind pleased Madame de Maintenon extremely; her reserve,
mixed with delicate flatteries, won upon her.  Madame de Maintenon wished to hear her talk
upon matters of piety; with difficulty she consented to speak. She seemed to surrender herself
to the charms and to the virtue of Madame de Maintenon, and Madame de Maintenon fell into the
nets so skilfully prepared for her.

Such was the situation of Fenelon when he became Archbishop of Cambrai; increasing the admiration
in which he was held by taking no step to gain that great benefice.  He had taken care not
to seek to procure himself Cambrai; the least spark of ambition would have destroyed all his
edifice; and, moreover, it was not Cambrai that he coveted.

Little by little he appropriated to himself some distinguished sheep of the small flock Madame
Guyon had gathered together.  He only conducted them, however, under the direction of that
prophetess, and, everything passed with a secrecy and mystery that gave additional relish to
the manna distributed.

Cambrai was a thunderbolt for this little flock.  It was the archbishopric of Paris they wished.
Cambrai they looked upon with disdain as a country diocese, the residence in which (impossible
to avoid from time to time) would deprive them of their pastor.  Their grief was then profound
at what the rest of the world took for a piece of amazing luck, and the Countess of Guiche
was so affected as to be unable to hide her tears.  The new prelate had not neglected such
of his brethren as made the most figure; they, in turn, considered it a distinction to command
his regard.  Saint Cyr, that spot so valuable and so inaccessible, was the place chosen for
his consecration; and M. de Meaux, dictator then of the episcopacy and or doctrine, consecrated
him.  The children of France were among the spectators, and Madame de Maintenon was present
with her little court of familiars.  No others were invited; the doors were closed to those
who sought to pay their court.

The new Archbishop of Cambrai, gratified with his influence over Madame de Maintenon and with
the advantages it had brought him, felt that unless he became completely master of her, the
hopes he still entertained could not be satisfied.  But there was a rival in his way--Godet,
Bishop of Chartres, who was much in the confidence of Madame de Maintenon, and had long discourses
with her at Saint Cyr.  As he was, however, of a very ill figure, had but little support at
Court, and appeared exceedingly simple, M. de Cambrai believed he could easily overthrow him.
To do this, he determined to make use of Madame Guyon, whose new spirituality had already been
so highly relished by Madame de Maintenon.  He persuaded this latter to allow Madame Guyon
to enter Saint Cyr, where they could discourse together much more at their ease than at the
Hotel de Chevreuse or Beauvilliers.  Madame Guyon went accordingly to Saint Cyr two or three
times.  Soon after, Madame de Maintenon, who relished her more and more, made her sleep there,
and their meetings grew longer.  Madame Guyon admitted that she sought persons proper to become
her disciples, and in a short time she formed a little flock, whose maxims and language appeared
very strange to all the rest of the house, and, above all, to M. de Chartres.  That prelate
was not so simple as M. de Cambrai imagined. Profound theologian and scholar, pious, disinterested,
and of rare probity, he could be, if necessary, a most skilful courtier; but he rarely exerted
this power, for the favour of Madame de Maintenon sufficed him of itself.  As soon as he got
scent of this strange doctrine, he caused two ladies, upon whom he could count, to be admitted
to Saint Cyr, as if to become disciples of Madame Guyon.  He gave them full instructions, and
they played their parts to perfection.  In the first place they appeared to be ravished, and
by degrees enchanted, with the new doctrine.  Madame Guyon, pleased with this fresh conquest,
took the ladies into her most intimate confidence in order to gain them entirely. They communicated
everything to M. de Chartres, who quietly looked on, allowed things to take their course, and,
when he believed the right moment had arrived, disclosed all he had learnt to Madame de Maintenon.
She was strangely surprised when she saw the extraordinary drift of the new doctrine. For an instant
he stood dignified, with lifted his hand, as though indicating where he wished to speak. Hither so as
this was recognized, silence on assembly, and he spoke: "i pray you,
may the Voivodin Teuta of who, who has accompanied me soon, appear
with me to hear your wishes?"

There was the immediate and similar acquiescence, and, after bowing his thanks, he retired to
the conduct. Her appearance was received there with an ovation was enthusiastic to that given
into Gospodar and Rupert, to which she bowed to silent sweetness.

She, with her husband, was conducted to the top of the Hall to an
President, Vissarion came down nobody to parley. In the meantime chair
had been placed beside that prepared for the Gospodar, and these two sat.
  Before being arrested,
however, she had been put into the hands of M. de Meaux, who used all his endeavours to change
her sentiments.  Tired at last of his sermons, she feigned conviction, signed a recantation
of her opinions, and was set at liberty. Yet, directly after, she held her secret assemblies
in the Faubourg Saint Antoine, and it was in consequence of this abuse of freedom that she
was arrested.  These adventures bring me far into the year 1696, and the sequel extends into
the following year.  Let us finish this history at once, and return afterwards to what happened
meanwhile.

Monsieur de Cambrai, stunned but not overpowered by the reverse he had sustained, and by his
loss of favour with Madame de Maintenon, stood firm in his stirrups.  After Madame Guyon's
abuse of her liberty, and the conferences of Issy, he bethought himself of confessing to M.
de Meaux, by which celebrated trick he hoped to close that prelate's mouth.  These circumstances
induced M. de Meaux to take pen in hand, in order to expose to the public the full account
of his affair, and of Madame Guyon's doctrine; and he did so in a work under the title of 'Instruction
sur les Etats d'Oyaison'.

While the book was yet unpublished, M. de Cambrai was shown a copy.  He saw at once the necessity
of writing another to ward off the effect of such a blow.  He must have had a great deal of
matter already prepared, otherwise the diligence he used would be incredible.  Before M. de
Meaux's book was ready, M. de Cambrai's, entitled 'Maximes des Saints', was published and distributed.
M. de Chevreuse, who corrected the proofs, installed himself at the printer's, so as to see
every sheet as soon as printed.

This book, written in the strangest manner, did M. de Cambrai little service.  If people were
offended to find it supported upon no authority, they were much more so with its confused and
embarrassed style, its precision so restrained and so decided, its barbarous terms which seemed
as though taken from a foreign tongue, above all, its high-flown and far- fetched thoughts,
which took one's breath away, as in the too subtle air of the middle region.  Nobody, except
the theologians, understood it, and even they not without reading it three or four times. 
Connoisseurs found in it a pure Quietism, which, although wrapped up in fine language, was
clearly visible.  I do not give my own judgment of things so much beyond me, but repeat what
was said everywhere.  Nothing else was talked about, even by the ladies; and a propos of this,
the saying of Madame de Sevigne was revived: "Make religion a little more palpable; it evaporates
by dint of being over-refined."

Not a word was heard in praise of the book; everybody was opposed to it, and it was the means
of making Madame de Maintenon more unfavourable to M. de Cambrai than ever.  He sent the King
a copy, without informing her. This completed her annoyance against him.  M. de Cambrai, finding
his book so ill-received by the Court and by the prelates, determined to try and support it
on the authority of Rome, a step quite opposed to our manners.  In the mean time, M. de Meaux's
book appeared in two volumes octavo, well written, clear, modest, and supported upon the authority
of the Scriptures.  It was received with avidity, and absolutely devoured. There was not a
person at the Court who did not take a pleasure in reading it, so that for a long time it was
the common subject of conversation of the Court and of the town.

These two books, so opposed in doctrine and in style, made such a stir on every side that the
King interposed, and forced M. de Cambrai to submit his work to an examination by a council
of prelates, whom he named. M. de Cambrai asked permission to go to Rome to defend his cause
in person, but this the King refused.  He sent his book, therefore, to the Pope, and had the
annoyance to receive a dry, cold reply, and to see M. de Meaux's book triumph.  His good fortune
was in effect at an end. He remained at Court some little time, but the King was soon irritated
against him, sent him off post-haste to Paris, and from there to his diocese, whence he has
never returned.  He left behind him a letter for one of his friends, M. de Chevreuse it was
generally believed, which immediately after became public.  It appeared like the manifesto
of a man who disgorges his bile and restrains himself no more, because he has nothing more
to hope.  The letter, bold and bitter in style, was besides so full of ability and artifice,
that it was extremely pleasant to read, without finding approvers; so true it is that a wise
and disdainful silence is difficult to keep under reverses.