Ardently admiring our free institutions, and constantly pointing to our glorious political
exaltation as an incentive to the perseverance of his own countrymen in their struggle against
oppression, he has yet omitted no opportunity of rebuking our inexcusable slave system.  An
enthusiastic admirer of Jefferson, he has often regretted that his practice should have so
illy accorded with his noble sentiments on the subject of slavery, which so fully coincided
with his own.  In truth, wherever man has been oppressed by his fellow-man, O'Connell's sympathy
has been directed: to Italy, chained above the very grave of her ancient liberties; to the
republics of Southern America; to Greece, dashing the foot of the indolent Ottoman from her
neck; to France and Belgium; and last, not least, to Poland, driven from her cherished nationality,
and dragged, like his own Ireland, bleeding and violated, to the deadly embrace of her oppressor.
American slavery but shares in his common denunciation of all tyranny; its victims but partake
of his common pity for the oppressed and persecuted and the trodden down.

In this hasty and imperfect sketch we cannot enter into the details of that cruel disregard
of Irish rights which was manifested by a Reformed Parliament, convoked, to use the language
of William IV., "to ascertain the sense of the people."  It is perhaps enough to say that O'Connell's
indignant refusal to receive as full justice the measure of reform meted out to Ireland was
fully justified by the facts of the case.  The Irish Reform Bill gave Ireland, with one third
of the entire population of the United Kingdoms, only one sixth of the Parliamentary delegation.
It diminished instead of increasing the number of voters; in the towns and cities it created
a high and aristocratic franchise; in many boroughs it established so narrow a basis of franchise
as to render them liable to corruption and abuse as the rotten boroughs of the old system.
It threw no new power into the hands of the people; and with no little justice has O'Connell
himself termed it an act to restore to power the Orange ascendancy in Ireland, and to enable
a faction to trample with impunity on the friends of reform and constitutional freedom. [Letters
to the Reformers of Great Britain, No. 1.]

In May, 1832, O'Connell commenced the publication of his celebrated Letters to the Reformers
of Great Britain.  Like Tallien, before the French convention, he "rent away the veil" which
Hume and Atwood had only partially lifted.  He held up before the people of Great Britain the
new indignities which had been added to the long catalogue of Ireland's wrongs; he appealed
to their justice, their honor, their duty, for redress, and cast down before the Whig administration
the gauntlet of his country's defiance and scorn.  There is a fine burst of indignant Irish
feeling in the concluding paragraphs of his fourth letter:--

"I have demonstrated the contumelious injuries inflicted upon us by this Reform Bill.  My letters
are long before the public.  They have been unrefuted, uncontradicted in any of their details.
And with this case of atrocious injustice to Ireland placed before the reformers of Great Britain,
what assistance, what sympathy, do we receive?  Why, I have got some half dozen drivelling
letters from political unions and political characters, asking me whether I advise them to
petition or bestir themselves in our behalf!

"Reformers of Great Britain! I do not ask you either to petition or be silent.  I do not ask
you to petition or to do any other act in favor of the Irish.  You will consult your own feelings
of justice and generosity, unprovoked by any advice or entreaty of mine.

"For my own part, I never despaired of Ireland; I do not, I will not, I cannot, despair of
my beloved country.  She has, in my view, obtained freedom of conscience for others, as well
as for herself.  She has shaken off the incubus of tithes while silly legislation was dealing
out its folly and its falsehoods.  She can, and she will, obtain for herself justice and constitutional
freedom; and although she may sigh at British neglect and ingratitude, there is no sound of
despair in that sigh, nor any want of moral energy on her part to attain her own rights by
peaceable and legal means."

