X

HISTORICAL WRITINGS

1902

INTRODUCTION

Of late years, that is to say, within the last thirty odd years, there has existed a certain
amount of doubt as to whether or no the work known to us as "The History of the Four Last Years
of the Queen," was really the product of Swift's pen. That a work of this nature had occupied
Swift during his retirement at Windsor in 1713, is undoubted. That the work here reprinted
from the edition given to the world in 1758, "by an anonymous editor from a copy surreptitiously
taken by an anonymous friend" (to use Mr. Churton Collins's summary), is the actual work upon
which Swift was engaged at Windsor, is not so certain. Let us for a moment trace the history
of what is known of what Swift did write, and then we shall be in a better position to judge
of the authenticity of what we have before us.

All that we know of this work is gathered from Swift's correspondence, as published by Sir
Walter Scott in his edition of Swift's Works issued in 1824. The first reference there made
is in a note from Dr. William King to Mrs. Whiteway, from which we gather that Swift, towards
the end of the year 1736, was meditating the publication of what he had written in 1713. "As
to the History," writes King, "the Dean may be assured I will take care to supply the dates
that are wanting, and which can easily be done in an hour or two. The tracts, if he pleases,
may be printed by way of appendix. This will be indeed less trouble than the interweaving them
in the body of the history, and will do the author as much honour, and answer the purpose full
as well."

This was written from Paris, under date November 9th, O.S., 1736. It can easily be gathered
from this that the tracts referred to are the tracts on the same period which Swift wrote at
the time in defence of the Oxford ministry. They are given in the fifth volume of this edition.

On December 7th, 1736, King was in London, and he immediately writes to Swift himself on the
matter of the History. "I arrived here yesterday," he says, "and I am now ready to obey your
commands. I hope you are come to a positive resolution concerning the History. You need not
hesitate about the dates, or the references which are to be made to any public papers; for
I can supply them without the least trouble. As well as I remember, there is but one of those
public pieces which you determined should be inserted at length; I mean Sir Thomas Hanmer's
Representation; this I have now by me. If you incline to publish the two tracts as an Appendix
to the History, you will be pleased to see if the character given of the Earl of Oxford in
the pamphlet of 1715 agrees with the character given of the same person in the History.[1]
Perhaps on a review you may think proper to leave one of them quite out. You have (I think)
barely mentioned the attempt of Guiscard, and the quarrel between Rechteren and Mesnager. But
as these are facts which are probably now forgot or unknown, it would not be amiss if they
were related at large in the notes; which may be done from the gazettes, or any other newspapers
of those times. This is all I have to offer to your consideration...."

[Footnote 1: See note on page 95 of this volume.]

There is thus no doubt left as to which were the tracts referred to by King, and as to the
desire of Swift to include Sir Thomas Hanmer's Representation--two points that are important
as evidence for the authenticity of the edition issued by Lucas in 1758.

Towards the middle of 1737, it must have become common knowledge among Swift's friends in London,
that he was preparing for publication his "History of the Four Last Years of Queen Anne's Reign."
Possibly King may have dropped a hint of it; possibly Swift may have written to others for
information and assistance. Be that as it may, on April 7th, 1737, the Earl of Oxford (son
of Swift's old friend) wrote to Swift as follows:

    "... One reason of my writing to you now is, (next to my asking
    your forgiveness) this: I am told that you have given leave and
    liberty to some one or more of your friends to print a history
    of the last four years of Queen Anne's reign, wrote by you.

    "As I am most truly sensible of your constant regard and sincere
    friendship for my father, even to partiality, (if I may say so,)
    I am very sensible of the share and part he must bear in such a
    history; and as I remember, when I read over that history of
    yours, I can recollect that there seemed to me a want of some
    papers to make it more complete, which was not in our power to
    obtain; besides there were some severe things said, which might
    have been very currently talked of; but now will want a proper
    evidence to support; for these reasons it is that I do entreat
    the favour of you, and make it my earnest request, that you will
    give your positive directions, that this history be not printed
    and published, until I have had an opportunity of seeing it;
    with a liberty of showing it to some family friends, whom I
    would consult upon this occasion. I beg pardon for this; I hope
    you will be so good as to grant my request: I do it with great
    deference to you. If I had the pleasure of seeing you, I would
    soon say something to you that would convince you I am not
    wrong: they are not proper for a letter as you will easily
    guess...."

It is evident that Swift had gone so far as to consult with Faulkner on the matter of the printing
of the "History," because he was present when Oxford's letter arrived, and he tells us that
Swift answered the letter immediately, and made him read the answer, the purport of which was:
"That although he loved his lordship's father more than he ever did any man; yet, as a human
creature, he had his faults, and therefore, as an impartial writer, he could not conceal them."

On the 4th of June, 1737, Swift wrote at length to Oxford a letter in which he details the
circumstances and the reasons which moved him to write the History. The letter is important,
and runs as follows:

    "MY LORD,

    "I had the honour of a letter from your lordship, dated April
    the 7th, which I was not prepared to answer until this time.
    Your lordship must needs have known, that the History you
    mention, of the Four last Years of the Queen's Reign, was
    written at Windsor, just upon finishing the peace; at which
    time, your father and my Lord Bolingbroke had a misunderstanding
    with each other, that was attended with very bad consequences.
    When I came to Ireland to take this deanery (after the peace was
    made) I could not stay here above a fortnight, being recalled by
    a hundred letters to hasten back, and to use my endeavours in
    reconciling those ministers. I left them the history you
    mention, which I finished at Windsor, to the time of the peace.
    When I returned to England, I found their quarrels and coldness
    increased. I laboured to reconcile them as much as I was able: I
    contrived to bring them to my Lord Masham's, at St. James's. My
    Lord and Lady Masham left us together. I expostulated with them
    both, but could not find any good consequences. I was to go to
    Windsor next day with my lord-treasurer; I pretended business
    that prevented me, expecting they would come to some
    [agreement?]. But I followed them to Windsor; where my Lord
    Bolingbroke told me, that my scheme had come to nothing. Things
    went on at the same rate; they grew more estranged every day. My
    lord-treasurer found his credit daily declining. In May before
    the Queen died, I had my last meeting with them at my Lord
    Masham's. He left us together; and therefore I spoke very freely
    to them both; and told them, 'I would retire, for I found all
    was gone'. Lord Bolingbroke whispered me, 'I was in the right'.
    Your father said, 'All would do well'. I told him, 'That I would
    go to Oxford on Monday, since I found it was impossible to be of
    any use'. I took coach to Oxford on Monday, went to a friend in
    Berkshire, there stayed until the Queen's death, and then to my
    station here, where I stayed twelve years, and never saw my lord
    your father afterward. They could not agree about printing the
    History of the Four last Years and therefore I have kept it to
    this time, when I determine to publish it in London, to the
    confusion of all those rascals who have accused the queen and
    that ministry of making a bad peace, to which that party
    entirely owes the Protestant succession. I was then in the
    greatest trust and confidence with your father the
    lord-treasurer, as well as with my Lord Bolingbroke, and all
    others who had part in the administration I had all the letters
    from the secretary's office, during the treaty of peace out of
    those, and what I learned from the ministry, I formed that
    History, which I am now going to publish for the information of
    posterity, and to control the most impudent falsehoods which
    have been published since. I wanted no kind of materials. I knew
    your father better than you could at that time, and I do
    impartially think him the most virtuous minister, and the most
    able, that ever I remember to have read of. If your lordship has
    any particular circumstances that may fortify what I have said
    in the History, such as letters or materials, I am content they
    should be printed at the end, by way of appendix. I loved my
    lord your father better than any other man in the world,
    although I had no obligation to him on the score of preferment,
    having been driven to this wretched kingdom, to which I was
    almost a stranger, by his want of power to keep me in what I
    ought to call my own country, although I happened to be dropped
    here, and was a year old before I left it, and to my sorrow did
    not die before I came back to it again. As to the History, it
    is only of affairs which I know very well and had all the
    advantages possible to know, when you were in some sort but a
    lad. One great design of it is, to do justice to the ministry at
    that time, and to refute all the objections against them, as if
    they had a design of bringing in Popery and the Pretender: and
    farther to demonstrate, that the present settlement of the crown
    was chiefly owing to my lord your father...."

The Earl of Oxford had failed to extract the manuscript from Swift for the purpose he had expressed
in his letter. But his friend and Swift's old friend, Erasmus Lewis, who had been Under-Secretary
of State during Lord Oxford's administration, came to the Earl's assistance. He had not written
to Swift for many years, but on June 30th, 1737, he took occasion to renew the correspondence
and referred to the proposal for publishing the History in a manner which leaves no doubt as
to who suggested to him to write:

    " ... Now I name him, I mean Lord Oxford, let me ask you if it
    be true, that you are going to print a History of the Four Last
    Years of the Queen? if it is, will not you let me see it before
    you send it to the press? Is it not possible that I may suggest
    some things that you may have omitted, and give you reasons for
    leaving out others? The scene is changed since that period of
    time: the conditions of the peace of Utrecht have been applauded
    by most part of mankind, even in the two Houses of Parliament:
    should not matters rest here, at least for some time? I presume
    your great end is to do justice to truth; the second point may
    perhaps be to make a compliment to the Oxford family: permit me
    to say as to the first, that though you know perhaps more than
    any one man, I may possibly contribute a mite; and, with the
    alteration of one word, viz. by inserting parva instead of
    magna, apply to myself that passage of Virgil, et quorum pars
    parva fui. As to the second point, I do not conceive your
    compliment to Lord Oxford to be so perfect as it might be,
    unless you lay the manuscript before him, that it may be
    considered here."

On the 4th of July, 1737, Oxford replied to Swift's letter of the 4th of June (referring to
it as of the 14th of June), and emphasizes his earnest wish to see the manuscript. He also
asks that it may be permitted him to show it to some friends:

    "GOOD MR. DEAN,

    "Your letter of June 14th, in answer to mine of the 7th of
    April, is come to my hands; and it is with no small concern that
    I have read it, and to find that you seem to have formed a
    resolution to put the History of the Four last Years of the
    Queen to the press; a resolution taken without giving your
    friends, and those that are greatly concerned, some notice, or
    suffering them to have time and opportunity to read the papers
    over, and to consider them. I hope it is not too late yet, and
    that you will be so good as to let some friends see them, before
    they are put to the press; and, as you propose to have the work
    printed here, it will be easy to give directions to whom you
    will please to give the liberty of seeing them; I beg I may be
    one: this request I again repeat to you, and I hope you will
    grant it. I do not doubt that there are many who will persuade
    you to publish it; but they are not proper judges: their reasons
    may be of different kinds, and their motives to press on this
    work may be quite different, and perhaps concealed from you.

    "I am extremely sensible of the firm love and regard you had for
    my father, and have for his memory; and upon that account it is
    that I now renew my request, that you would at least defer this
    printing until you have had the advice of friends. You have
    forgot that you lent me the History to read when you were in
    England, since my father died; I do remember it well. I would
    ask your pardon for giving you this trouble; but upon this
    affair I am so nearly concerned, that, if I did not my utmost to
    prevent it, I should never forgive myself."

While this correspondence was in progress, Swift had given the manuscript to Lord Orrery to
hand over to Dr. King. On June 24th, 1737, King wrote to Swift stating that he had received
a letter from Mrs. Whiteway in which he was told to expect the manuscript from the hands of
Lord Orrery. To Mrs. Whiteway he replied, on the same day, that he would wait on Lord Orrery
to receive the papers. On July 23rd, 1737, Lord Orrery wrote to Swift informing him that "Dr.
King has his cargo."

With the knowledge that the manuscript was on its way to King, Swift wrote the following reply
to Lewis's letter:

    July 23, 1737.

    "DEAR FRIEND,

    "While any of those who used to write to me were alive, I always
    inquired after you. But, since your secretaryship in the queen's
    time, I believed you were so glutted with the office, that you
    had not patience to venture on a letter to an absent useless
    acquaintance; and I find I owe yours to my Lord Oxford. The
    History you mention was written above a year before the queen's
    death. I left it with the treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke, when I
    first came over to take this deanery. I returned in less than a
    month; but the ministry could not agree about printing it. It
    was to conclude with the peace. I staid in London above nine
    months; but not being able to reconcile the quarrels between
    those two, I went to a friend in Berkshire, and, on the queen's
    death, came hither for good and all. I am confident you read
    that History; as this Lord Oxford did, as he owns in his two
    letters, the last of which reached me not above ten days ago.
    You know, on the queen's death, how the peace and all
    proceedings were universally condemned. This I knew would be
    done; and the chief cause of my writing was, not to let such a
    queen and ministry lie under such a load of infamy, or posterity
    be so ill-informed, &c. Lord Oxford is in the wrong to be in
    pain about his father's character, or his proceedings in his
    ministry; which is so drawn, that his greatest admirers will
    rather censure me for partiality; neither can he tell me
    anything material out of his papers, which I was not then
    informed of; nor do I know anybody but yourself who could give
    me more light than what I then received; for I remember I often
    consulted with you, and took memorials of many important
    particulars which you told me, as I did of others, for four
    years together. I can find no way to have the original delivered
    to Lord Oxford, or to you; for the person who has it will not
    trust it out of his hands; but, I believe, would be contented to
    let it be read to either of you, if it could be done without
    letting it out of his hands, although, perhaps, that may be too
    late."

Swift is evidently about to accede to the desires of his two friends, and Lewis, in his reply,
takes it for granted that the manuscript will soon be in his possession for perusal and examination:

    London, Aug. 4, 1737.

    "I assure you, my dear Dean, 'twas matter of joy to me to
    receive a letter from you, and I hope 'tis an earnest of many
    more I may have hereafter, before you and I leave this world;
    though I must tell you, that if you and I revive our former
    Correspondence, you must indulge me the liberty of making use of
    another hand; for whether it be owing to age, or writing
    formerly whole nights by candle-light, or to both those causes,
    my sight is so far impaired, that I am not able, without much
    pain, to scratch out a letter.

    "I do not remember ever to have read your History. I own my
    memory is much decayed; but still I think I could not have
    forgotten a matter of so much consequence, and which must have
    given me so great a pleasure. It is fresh in my mind, that Lord
    Oxford and the Auditor desired you to confer with me upon the
    subject matter of it; that we accordingly did so; and that the
    conclusion was, you would bury everything in oblivion. We
    reported this to those two, I mean to his lordship and his
    uncle, and they acquiesced in it. Now I find you have finished
    that piece. I ask nothing but what you grant in your letter of
    July 23d, viz. That your friend shall read it to me, and forbear
    sending it to the press, till you have considered the
    objections, if any should be made.

    "In the meantime, I shall only observe to you in general, that
    three and twenty years, for so long it is since the death of
    Queen Anne, having made a great alteration in the world, and
    that what was sense and reason then, is not so now; besides, I
    am told you have treated some people's characters with a
    severity which the present times will not bear, and may possibly
    bring the author into much trouble, which would be matter of
    great uneasiness to his friends. I know very well it is your
    intention to do honour to the then treasurer. Lord Oxford knows
    it; all his family and friends know it; but it is to be done
    with great circumspection. It is now too late to publish a
    pamphlet, and too early to publish a History.

    "It was always my opinion, that the best way of doing honour to
    the treasurer, was to write a History of the Peace of Utrecht,
    beginning with a short preamble concerning the calamitous state
    of our debt, and ending with the breaking our army, and
    restoring the civil power; that these great things were
    completed under the administration of the Earl of Oxford, and
    this should be his epitaph. Lord Bolingbroke is undoubtedly
    writing a History, but I believe will not live to finish it,
    because he takes it up too high, viz. from the Restoration. In
    all probability he'll cut and slash Lord Oxford. This is only my
    guess. I don't know it...."

    King must have taken the manuscript to Lord Oxford and Lewis,
    and been present at its reading. When that reading actually took
    place is not ascertainable; but there is no doubt that before
    March 15th, 1738, King was aware of the criticisms made on it.
    On that day he writes to Mr. Deane Swift, explaining that he has
    been obliged to defer the publication until he has received
    Swift's answers to the objections made by the friends who read
    it. On April 25th, 1738, King wrote again to Mr. Deane Swift,
    regretting that he could not see him, "because I might have
    talked over with you all the affair of this History, about which
    I have been much condemned: and no wonder, since the Dean has
    continually expressed his dissatisfaction that I have so long
    delayed the publication of it. However, I have been in no fault:
    on the contrary, I have consulted the Dean's honour, and the
    safety of his person. In a word, the publication of this work,
    as excellent as it is, would involve the printer, publisher,
    author, and everyone concerned, in the greatest difficulties, if
    not in a certain ruin; and therefore it will be absolutely
    necessary to omit some of the characters...."

From which we gather that Lewis and the friends had been able to show King the extreme inadvisability
of publishing the work. Swift knew nothing of this at the time, but Lewis did not long keep
him in doubt, and the letter Lewis wrote Swift on April 8th, 1738, sets forth at length the
objections and criticisms which had so changed King's attitude.

    "London, April 8, 1738.

    "I can now acquaint you, my dear Dean, that I have at last had
    the pleasure of reading your History, in the presence of Lord
    O------d, and two or three more, who think, in all political
    matters, just as you do, and are as zealous for your fame and
    safety as any persons in the world. That part of it which
    relates to the negotiations of peace, whether at London or at
    Utrecht, they admire exceedingly, and declare they never yet saw
    that, or any other transaction, drawn up with so much
    perspicuity, or in a style so entertaining and instructive to
    the reader, in every respect; but I should be wanting to the
    sincerity of a friend, if I did not tell you plainly, that it
    was the unanimous opinion of the company a great deal of the
    first part should be retrenched, and many things altered.

    "1st, They conceive the first establishment of the South Sea
    Company is not rightly stated, for no part of the debt then
    unprovided for was paid: however the advantages arising to the
    public were very considerable; for, instead of paying for all
    provisions cent. per cent. dearer than the common market-price,
    as we did in Lord Godolphin's times, the credit of the public
    was immediately restored, and, by means of this scheme, put upon
    as good a footing as the best private security.

    "2d, They think the transactions with Mr. Buys might have been
    represented in a more advantageous light, and more to the honour
    of that administration; and, undoubtedly they would have been so
    by your pen, had you been master of all the facts.

    "3d, The D----  of M----'s courage not to be called in question.

    "4th, The projected design of an assassination they believe
    true, but that a matter of so high a nature ought not to be
    asserted without exhibiting the proofs.

    "5th, The present ministers, who are the rump of those whose
    characters you have painted, shew too plainly that they have not
    acted upon republican, or, indeed, any other principles, than
    those of interest and ambition.

    "6th, Now I have mentioned characters, I must tell you they were
    clearly of opinion, that if those you have drawn should be
    published as they now stand, nothing could save the author's
    printer and publishers from some grievous punishment. As we have
    no traces of liberty now left but the freedom of the press, it
    is the most earnest desire of your friends that you would strike
    out all that you have said on that subject.

    "Thus, my dear Dean, I have laid before you, in a plain manner
    the sentiments of those who were present when your History was
    read; if I have mistaken in anything, I ask pardon of you and
    them.

    "I am not at liberty to name those who were present, excepting
    only the E----  of O----d, who has charged me to return you his
    thanks for what you have said of his father.

    "What I have to say from myself is, that there were persons in
    the company to whose judgment I should pay entire deference. I
    had no opportunity of paying any on this occasion, for I
    concurred in the same opinion with them, from the bottom of my
    heart, and therefore conjure you as you value your own fame as
    an author, and the honour of those who were actors in the
    important affairs that make the subject of your History, and as
    you would preserve the liberty of your person, and enjoyment of
    your fortune, you will not suffer this work to go to the press
    without making some, or all the amendments proposed. I am, my
    dear Dean, most sincerely and affectionately yours,

    "E.L.

    "I thank you for your kind mention of me in your letter to Lord
    Oxford.

    "I had almost forgot to tell you, you have mistaken the case of
    the D---- of S----, which, in truth, was this, that his grace
    appearing at court, in the chamber next to the council-chamber,
    it was apprehended he would come into the cabinet-council; and
    therefore the intended meeting was put off: whereas one would
    judge, by your manner of stating it, that the council had met,
    and adjourned abruptly upon his taking his place there.

    "I must add, that if you would so far yield to the opinions of
    your friends, as to publish what you have writ concerning the
    peace, and leave out everything that savours of acrimony and
    resentment, it would, even now, be of great service to this
    nation in general, and to them in particular, nothing having
    been yet published on the peace of Utrecht in such a beautiful
    and strong manner as you have done it. Once more, my dear Dean,
    adieu; let me hear from you."

It is to be presumed that Swift was again persuaded to abandon the publication of his History.
Nothing further is heard of it, except a slight reference by Pope in a letter he wrote to Swift,
under date May 17th, 1739, in which Pope informed him that Bolingbroke (who is writing his
History of his own Time) has expressed his intention of differing from Swift's version, as
he remembers it when he read the History in 1727. The variation would relate in particular
to the conduct of the Earl of Oxford.

Slight as this reference is, there is yet enough in it to suggest another reason why Swift
should withhold the publication of his work. It might be that this expressed intention of Bolingbroke's
to animadvert on his dear friend's conduct, would just move Swift to a final rejection of his
intention, and so, possibly, prevent Bolingbroke from publishing his own statement. However,
the manuscript must have been returned, for nothing more was heard of it during Swift's lifetime.

Swift died in 1745, and thirteen years later appeared the anonymously edited "History of the
Four Last Years." Is this the work which Swift wrote in 1713, which he permitted Pope and Bolingbroke
to read in 1727, and which he prepared for publication in 1737?

In 1758 there was no doubt whatever raised, although there were at least two persons alive
then--Lord Orrery and Dr. William King--who could easily have proved any forgery, had there
been one.

The first suspicion cast on the work came from Dr. Johnson. In what particulars this want of
correspondence was made evident Johnson does not say. In any case, his suspicion cannot be
received with much consideration, since the conversation he heard must have taken place at
least twenty years before he wrote the poet's life, and his recollection of such a conversation
must at least have been very hazy. Johnson's opinion is further deprived of weight when we
read what he wrote of the History in the "Idler," in 1759, the year after its publication,
that "the history had perished had not a straggling transcript fallen into busy hands." If
the straggling manuscript were worth anything, it must have had some claims to authenticity;
and if it had, then Johnson's recollection of what he heard Orrery and Lewis say, twenty years
or more after they had said it, goes for very little.

Sir Walter Scott concludes, from the fact that Swift sent the manuscript to Oxford and Lewis,
that it was afterwards altered in accordance with Lewis's suggestions. But a comparison of
Lucas's text with Lewis's letter shows that nothing of the kind was done.

Lord Stanhope had "very great reason to doubt" the authenticity of the History, and considered
it as "falsely ascribed to Swift." What this "very great reason" was, his lordship nowhere stated.

Macaulay, in a pencilled note in a copy of Orrery's "Remarks" (now in the British Museum) describes
the History as "Wretched stuff; and I firmly believe not Swift's." But Macaulay could scarcely
have had much ground for his note, since he took a description of Somers from the History,
and embodied it in his own work as a specimen of what Somers's enemies said of him. If the
History were a forgery, what object was gained in quoting from it, and who were the enemies
who wrote it?

When, in 1873, Lord Beaconsfield, then Mr. Disraeli, made a speech at Glasgow, in which he
quoted from the History and spoke of the words as by Swift, a correspondent in the "Times"
criticised him for his ignorance in so doing. But the discussion which followed in the columns
of that periodical left the matter just where it was, and, indeed, justified Beaconsfield.
The matter was taken up by Mr. Edward Solly in "Notes and Queries;" but that writer threw no
new light whatever on the subject.

But the positive evidence in favour of the authenticity is so strong, that one wonders how
there could have been any doubt as to whether Swift did or did not write the History.

In the first place we know that Swift was largely indebted for his facts to Bolingbroke, when
that statesman was the War Secretary of Queen Anne. A comparison of those portions of Swift's
History which contain the facts with the Bolingbroke Correspondence, in which the same facts
are embodied, will amply prove that Swift obtained them from this source, and as Swift was
the one man of the time to whom such a favour was given, the argument in favour of Swift's
authorship obtains an added emphasis.

