I may be said to have crossed the Alps amid a torrent of curses. My place was in the banquette,
the roomiest and loftiest part of the lofty diligence, and which, perched in front, and looking
down upon the inferior compartments of the diligence, much as the attics of a three-storey
house look down upon the lower suits of apartments, commands a fine view of the country, when
it is daylight and clear weather. There sat next me in the banquette a young Savoyard, who
travelled with us as far as Chamberry, in the heart of the Alps; and on the other side of the
Savoyard sat the conducteur. This last was a Piedmontese, a young, clever, obliging fellow,
with a voluble tongue, and a keen dark eye in his head. Scarce had we extricated ourselves
from the environs of Lyons, or had got beyond the reach of the guns that look so angrily down
upon it from the heights, till these two broke into a conversation on politics. The conversation
soon warmed into an energetic and vehement discussion, or philippic I should rather say. Their
discourse was far too rapid, and I was too unfamiliar with the language in which it was uttered
to do more than gather its scope and drift. But I could hear the names of France and Austria
repeated every other sentence; and these names were sure to be followed by a volley of curses,
fierce, scornful, and defiant. Austria was cursed,--France was cursed: they were cursed individually,--they
were cursed conjunctly,--once, again, and a hundred times. What were the politics of the passengers
in the other compartments of the diligence I know not; but little did they wot that they had
a democratic club overhead, and that more treason was spouted that night in their company than
might have got us all into trouble, had there been any evesdropper in any corner of the vehicle.
When I chanced to awake, they were still at it. The harsh grating sound of the anathemas haunted
me during my sleep even. It was like a rattling hail-shower, or like the continuous corruscations
of lightning,--the lightning of the Alps. Had it been possible for the authorities to know
but a tithe of what was spoken that night by my two neighbours, their journey would have been
short: they would have been shot at the next station, to a certainty.

With the night, the dream-like landscape, and the maledictory harangues which had haunted me
during the darkness, passed away, and the morning found us nearing the mountains. The Alps
open upon you by little. One who has never climbed these hills imagines himself standing at
their feet, and looking up the long unbroken vista of fields, vineyards, forests, and naked
rocks, to the eternal snows of their summit. Not so. They do not come marching thus upon you
in all their grandeur to overwhelm you. To see them thus, you must stand afar off,--at least
fifty miles away. There you can take in the whole at a glance, from the beauteous fringe of
stream, and hamlet, and woodland, that skirts their base, to the white serrated line that cuts
so sharply the blue of the firmament. Nearer them,--unless, indeed, in the great central valleys,
where you can see the icy fields hanging in the firmament at an awful distance above you,--their
snow-clad summits are invisible, being hidden by an intervening sea of ridges, that are strewn
over with rocks, or wave darkly with pines.

As we approached the mountains, they offered to the eye a beauteous chain of verdant hills,
with the morning mists hanging on their sides. The torrents were in flood from the recent rains;
the woods had the rich tints of autumn upon them; but the charm of the scene lay in the beautiful
festoonings of the vine. The uplands before me were barred by what I at first took to be long
horizontal layers of fleecy cloud. On a nearer approach, these turned out to be the long branchy
arms of the vine. The vine-stock is made to lean against the cut trunk of a chestnut or poplar
tree, and its branches are bent horizontally, and extended till they meet those of the neighbouring
vine-stock, which have been similarly dealt with. In this way, continuous lines of luxuriant
foliage, with pendulous blood-red clusters in their season, may be made to run for miles together
along the hill-side. There might be from thirty to forty parallel lines in those I now saw.
Tinted with the morning sun, and relieved against the deep verdure of the mountain, they appeared
like stripes of amber, or floating lines of cloud fringed with gold.

It was the Mont Cenis route I was traversing,--the least rugged of all the passes of the Alps,
and the same by which Hannibal, as some suppose, passed into Italy. The day cleared up into
one of unusual brilliancy. We began to ascend by a path cut in the rock of the mountain, having
on our left an escarpment of limestone several hundred feet high, and on our right a deep gorge,
with a white foaming torrent at its bottom. The frontier chain passed, we descended into a
rich valley, with a fine stream flowing through it, and the poor town of Les Echelles hiding
from view in one of its angles. These noble valleys are sadly blotted by filth and disease.
The contrast offered betwixt the noble features of nature and the degraded form of man is painful
and humiliating. Bowed down by toil, stolid with ignorance, disfigured with the goitre, struck
with cretinism, the miserable beings around you do more to sadden you than all that the bright
air and glorious hills can do to exhilarate you.

The valley where we now were was a complete cul de sac. It was walled in all round by limestone
hills of great height, and the eye sought in vain for visible outlet. At length one could see
a white line running half-way up the mountain's face, and ending in an opening no bigger than
a pigeon-hole. We slowly climbed this road,--for road it was; and when we came to the diminutive
opening we had seen from the valley below, it expanded into a tunnel,--one of the great works
of Napoleon,--which ran right through the mountain, and brought us out on the other side. We
now traversed a narrow and rocky ravine, which at length expanded into a magnificent valley,
rich in vines and fruit-trees of all kinds, and overhung by lofty mountains. On this plain,
surrounded by the living grandeur of nature, and the faded renown of its monastic and archiepiscopal
glory, and half-buried amid foliage and ruins, sits Chamberry, the capital of Savoy.

At Chamberry our route underwent a change. Beauty now gave place to grandeur; but still a grandeur
blended with scenes of exquisite loveliness. These I cannot stay to describe at length. The
whole day was passed in winding and climbing among the hills. We toiled slowly to rise above
the plains we had left, and to approach the region where winter spreads out her boundless sea
of ice and snow. We followed the magnificent road which we owe to the genius of Napoleon. The
fruits of Marengo are gone. Austerlitz is but a name. But the passes of the Alps remain. "When
will it be ready for the transport of the cannon?" enquired Napoleon respecting the Simplon
road. War is a rough pioneer; but without such a pioneer to clear the way the world would stand
still. Look back. What do you see throughout the successive ages? War, with his red eye, his
iron feet, and his gleaming brand, marching in the van; and commerce, and arts, and Christianity,
following in the wake of this blood-besmeared Anakim. Such has ever been the order of procession.
Mankind in the mass are a sluggish race, and will march only when the word of command is sounded
from iron-throated, hoarse-voiced war. Look at the Alps. What do you see? A gigantic form,
busy amid the blinding tempests and the eternal ice of their summits. With herculean might
he rends the rocks and levels the mountains. Who is he, and what does he there? That is war,
in the person of Napoleon, hewing a path through rocks and glaciers, for the passage of the
Bible and the missionary. Under the reign of the Mediator the promise to Christianity is, All
is yours. War is yours, and Peace is yours.

As we passed on, innumerable nooks of beauty opened to the eye, and romantic peaks ever and
anon shot up before us. Now the path led along a meadow, with its large bright flowers; and
now along the brink of an Alpine river, with its worn bed and tumultuous floods. Now it rounded
the shoulder of a hill; and now it lost itself in some frightful gorge, where the overhanging
mountain, with its drapery of pine forests, made it dark as midnight almost. You emerge into
daylight again, and begin the same succession of green meadow, pine-clad hill, foaming torrent,
and black gorge. Thus you go onward and upward. At length white Alps begin to look down upon
you, and give you warning that you are nearing those central regions where eternal winter holds
his seat amid pinnacles of ice and wastes of snow.

Let us take an individual picture. The road has made a sudden turn; and a valley, hitherto
concealed by the mountains, opens unexpectedly. It is some three or four miles long; and the
road traverses it straight as the arrow's flight, till it loses itself amid the rocks and foliage
at the bottom of the mountain which you see lying across the valley. On this hand is a stream
of water, clear as crystal; on that is the ridgy, wavy, lofty mass of a purple Alp. The bright
air and light incorporate, as it were, with the substance of the mountain, and spiritualize
it, so that it looks of mould intermediate betwixt the earth and the firmament. The path is
bordered with the most delicious verdure, fresh and soft as a carpet, and freckled with the
dancing shadows of the trees. On this hand is a chalet, with a vine climbing its wall and mantling
its doorway; on that is a verdant knoll, planted a-top with chestnut trees; and from amidst
their rich, massy foliage, the little spire of the church, with its glittering vane, looks
forth. Near it is the curé's house, buried amidst flower-blossoms, the foliage of vines, and
the shadows of the sycamore and chestnut. There is not a spot in the little valley which beauty
has not clothed and decked with the most painstaking care; while grandeur has built up a wall
all round, as if to keep out the storms that sometimes rage here. It looks so quiet and tranquil,
and is so shut in from the great world outside, that one thinks of it as a spot which happy
beings from another sphere might come to visit, and where he might list the melody of their
voices, as they walk at even-tide amid the bowers of this earthly Eden.

The road makes another turn, and the scene is changed in a moment,--in the twinkling of an
eye. The happy valley is gone,--it has vanished like a dream; and a scene of stern, savage,
overpowering sublimity rises before you. Alp is piled upon Alp, chasms yawn, torrents growl,
jutting rocks threaten; and far over head is the dark pine forest, amid which you can descry,
perhaps, the frozen billows of the glacier, or have glimpses of those still higher and drearier
regions where winter sits on her eternal throne, and holds undivided sway. Your farther progress
is completely barred. So it looks. A cyclopean wall rises from earth to heaven. The gate of
rock by which you entered seems to have closed its ponderous jaws behind you, and shut you
in,--there to remain till some supernatural power rend the mountains and give you egress. The
mood of mind changes with the scene. The beauty soothed and softened you; now you grow impulsive
and stern. The awful forms around you blend with the soul, as it were, and impart something
of their own vastness to it. You feel yourself carried into the very presence of that Power
which sank the foundations of the mountains in the depths of the earth, and built up their
giant masses above the clouds; which hung the avalanche on their brow, clove their unfathomable
abysses, poured the river at their feet, and taught the forked lightning to play around their
awful icy steeps. You seem to hear the sound of the Almighty's footsteps still echoing amid
these hills.

The road was comparatively solitary. We passed at times a waggoner, who was conveying the produce
of the plains to some village among the mountains; and then a couple of pedestrians, with the
air of tradesmen, on their way perhaps to a Swiss town to seek employment; and next a cowherd,
driving home his herds from the glades of the forest; and now an occasional gendarme would
present himself, and force you to remember, what you would willingly have forgotten amid such
scenes, that there were such things as armies in the world; and sometimes the long, dark figure
of the curé, reading his breviary to economize time, might be seen gliding along before you,
representative of the murky superstition that still fills these valleys, and which, indeed,
you can read in the stolid face of the Savoyard, as he sits listlessly under the broad easings
of his cottage roof.

Anon the evening came, walking noiselessly upon the mountains, and shedding on the spirit a
not unpleasant melancholy. The Alps seemed to grow taller. Deep masses of shade were projected
from summit to summit. Pine forest, and green vale, and dashing torrent, and quiet hamlet,
all retired from view, as if they wished to go to sleep beneath the friendly shadows. A deep
and reverent silence stole over the Alps, as if the stillness of the firmament had descended
upon them. Over all nature was shed this spirit of quiet and profound tranquillity. Every tree
was motionless. The murmur of the brook, the wing of the bird, the creak of our diligence,
the voices of the postilion and conducteur, all felt the softening influence of the hour.

But mark! what glory is this which begins to burn upon the crest of the snowy Alps? First there
comes a flood of rosy light, and then a deep bright crimson, like the ruby's flash or the sapphire's
blaze, and then a circlet of flaming peaks studs the horizon. It looks as if a great conflagration
were about to begin. But suddenly the light fades, and piles of cold, pale white rise above
you. You can scarce believe them to be the same mountains. But, quick as the lightning, the
flash comes again. A flood of glory rolls once more along their summits. It is a last and mighty
blaze. You feel as if it were a struggle for life,--as if it were a war waged by the spirits
of darkness against these celestial forms. The struggle is over: the darkness has prevailed.
These mighty mountain torches are extinguished one after one; and cold, ghastly piles, of sepulchral
hue, which you shiver to look up at, and which remind you of the dead, rise still and calm
in the firmament above you. You feel relieved when darkness interposes its veil betwixt you
and them. The night sets in deep, and calm, and beautiful, with troops of stars overhead. The
voice of streams, all night long, fills the silent hills with melodious echoes.

We now threaded the black gorge of the Arc, passing, unperceived in the darkness, Fort Lesseillon,
which, erecting its tiers of batteries above this tremendous natural fosse, looks like a mailed
warrior guarding the entrance to Italy. It was eleven o'clock, and we were toiling up the mountain.
We had left all human habitations far below, as we thought, when suddenly we were startled
by a peal of village bells. Never had bells sounded sweeter in my fancy than those I now heard
in these dreary regions. These were the convent bells of the little village of Lanslebourg,
which lies at the foot of the summit of the Mont Cenis. Here we were to sup. It was a sort
of Arbour in the midst of the hill Difficulty, where we Pilgrims might refresh ourselves before
beginning our last and steepest ascent. It was a most substantial repast, as all suppers in
that part of the world are; and we had the pleasure of thinking that we were perhaps the highest
supper party in Europe. It was our last meal before crossing the mountain, and passing from
the modern to the ancient world; for the ridge of the Alps is the limit that divides the two.
On this side are modern times; on that are the dark ages. You retrograde five full centuries
when you step across the line. We ate our supper, as did the Israelites their last meal in
Egypt, with our loins girded,--scarce even our greatcoats put off, and our staff in our hand.

Now for the summit. We started at midnight. Above us was an ebon vault, studded thick with
large bright stars. Around us was the awful silence of the mountains. The night was luminous;
for in that elevated region darkness is unknown, save when the storm-cloud shrouds it. Of our
party, some betook them to the diligence, and were carried over asleep; others of us, leaving
the vehicle to follow the road, which zig-zags up to the summit, addressed ourselves to the
old route, which winds steeply upward, now through forests of stunted firs, now over a matting
of thick, short grass, and now over the bare debris-strewn scalp of the mountain. The convent
bells followed us with their sweet chimes up the hill, and formed a link between us and the
living world below. The echoes of our voices were strangely loud. They rung out in the thin
elastic air, as if all we said had been caught up and repeated by some invisible being,--some
genius of the mountains. The hours wore away; and so delighted were we with the novelty of
our position,--climbing the summits of the Alps at midnight,--that they seemed but so many minutes.

Ere we were aware, the night was past, and the dawn came upon us; and with the dawn, new and
stupendous glories burst forth. How fresh and holy the young day, as it drew aside the curtains
of the east, and smiled upon the mountains! The valleys were buried under a fathomless ocean
of haze; but the pearly light, sown by the rosy hand of morn, fringed the mountain ridges,
and a multitudinous sea of silvery waves spread out around us. The dawn stole on, waxing momentarily;
and the great white Alps, which had been standing all night around us so silent, and cold,
and sepulchral-like, in their snowy shrouds, now began to grow palpable and less dream-like.
The stars put out their fires as the pure crystal light mounted into the sky. Each successive
scene was lovely,--inexpressibly lovely,--but momentary. We wished we could have stereotyped
it till we had had time to admire it; but while we were gazing it had passed and was gone,
like the other glories of the world. But, lo! the sun is near. Mighty torch-bearers run before
his chariot, and cry to the rocks, the pine-forests, the torrents, the glaciers, the vine-clad
vales, the flower-enamelled glades, the rivers, the cities, that their king is coming. Awake
and worship! A mighty Alp, whose loftier stature or more favourable position gives it the start
of all the others, has caught the first ray; and suddenly, as if an invisible hand had kindled
it, it rises into the firmament, a pyramid of flame, soft, mild, yet gloriously bright, like
a dome of living sapphire. While you gaze, another flashes upon you, and another, and another,
and at length the whole horizon is filled with gigantic pyres. The stupendous vision has risen
so suddenly, that you almost look if you may see the seraph which has flown round and kindled
these mighty torches. The glory is inexpressible, and on a scale so vast, that you have no
words to describe it. You can scarce believe it to be reflected light which gives such glory
to these mountains. They are so rosy, so vividly, intensely radiant, that you feel as if that
boundless effulgence emanated from themselves,--were flowing forth from some hidden fountain
of light within. It is like no other scene of earthly glory you ever saw. You can compare it
only to some celestial city which has been let down from the firmament upon the tops of the
mountains, with its glittering turrets, its domes of sapphire, and its wall of alabaster, needing
no sun or other source of earthly light to enlighten and glorify it. But while you gaze, it
is gone. The sun is up, and the mighty mountain-torches which had carried the tidings of his
coming to the countries beneath are extinguished.

It was now full day, and we had reached the summit of the pass. Above us were still the snow-clad
peaks; but the road does not ascend higher. We now crossed the frontier, and were in Italy.
A little rocky plain surrounded by weather-beaten peaks, a deep blue lake, and a sea of bare
ridges in front, were all that we saw of Italy. The road now began sensibly to decline, and
the diligence quickened its pace. We soon reached the ridges before us, and began to descend
over the brow of the Alps, which are steep and perpendicular as a wall almost, on their southern
side. You first traverse a region covered with immense lichen-clothed boulders; next come stretches
of heath; then stunted firs: by and by fruit and forest trees begin to make their appearance;
next comes the lovely acacia; and last of all the vine, tall and luxuriant, veiling the peasant's
cot with its shadow. The road is literally a series of hanging stairs, which zig-zag down the
face of the mountain. At certain points the rock is perforated; at others it is hewn into terraces;
and at others the path rests on vast substructions of masonry. Now an immense rock leans over
the road, and now you find yourself on the edge of some frightful precipice, with the gulph
running right down many thousands of feet, and a white torrent at the bottom, boiling and struggling,
but unable to make itself heard at that height on the mountain. The turns are frequent and
sharp; and the heavy, overladen vehicle, in its furious downward career, gives a swing at each,
as if it would cut short the passage into Italy, and land the passenger, sooner than he wishes,
at the bottom. At length, after four hours' riding, the descent is accomplished. The scene
has changed in the twinkling of an eye. The plain is as level as a floor. The warm sun,--the
brilliant sky,--the luxuriant vines,--the handsome architecture,--the picturesque costumes,--the
dark oval faces, and black fiery eyes of the natives,--all tell you that it is a new world
into which you have entered,--that this is ITALY.

CHAPTER III.

RISK AND PROGRESS OF CONSTITUTIONALISM IN PIEDMONT.

     First Entrance into Italy--Never can be Repeated--The Cathedral of
     Turin--The Royal Palace--The Museum--Egyptian
     Mummies--Reflections--Landmark of the Vaudois Valleys--Piedmontese
     House of Commons--Piedmontese Constitution--Perils that surrounded
     it--Providentially shielded from these--Numbers and Wealth of the
     Priesthood--Want of Public Opinion--Rise of a Free Press--Its
     Power--The Gazetta del Popolo--The Bible quoted by the
     Journalists--The flourishing State of the Country--The Waldensian
     Temple and Congregation--Workmen's Clubs--The Capuchin Monastery--A
     Capuchin Friar--Sunset.

One can enter Italy for the first time only once. For, however often we may climb the Alps,
and tread the land that lies stretched out at their base, it is with a cold pulse, compared
with the fever of excitement into which we are thrown by the first touch of that soil. The
charm is flown; the tree of knowledge has been plucked; and never more can we taste the dreamy
yet intense delight which attended the first unfolding of the gates of the Alps, and the first
rising of the fair vision of Italy.

In truth, the Italy which one comes to see on his second visit is not the Italy that first
drew him across the Alps. That was the Italy of history, or rather of his own imagination.
The fair form his fancy was wont to conjure up, draped in the glowing recollections of empire
and of arms, and encompassed with the halo of heroic deeds, he can see no more. There meets
him, on the other side of the Alps, a vision very unlike this. The Italy of the Cæsars is gone;
and where she sat is now a poor, naked, cowering thing, with a chain upon her arm,--the Italy
of the Popes. But the fascination attends the traveller some short way into that land. Indeed,
he is loath to lose it, and would rather see Italy through the warm colourings of history,
and the bright hues of his own fancy, than look upon her as she is.

I shall never forget the intense excitement that thrilled me when I found myself rolling along
on the magnificent avenue of pollard-elms, that runs all the way from Rivoli to Turin. The
voluptuous air, which seemed to fill the landscape with a dreamy gaiety; the intense sunlight,
which tinted every object with extraordinary brilliancy, from the bright leaves overhead, to
the burning domes of Turin in front; the dark eyes of the natives, which flashed with a fervour
like that of their own sun; the Alps towering above me, and running off in a vast unbroken
line of glittering masses,--all contributed to form a picture of so novel and brilliant a kind,
that it absolutely produced an intoxication of delight.

I passed a few days at Turin; and the pleasure of my stay was much enhanced by the society
of my friend the Rev. John Bonar, whom I had met at Chamberry, en route, with his family, for
Malta. We visited together the chief objects of interest in the capital of Piedmont. The churches
we saw of course. And though we had been carried blindfolded across the Alps, and set down
in the cathedral of Turin, the statuary alone would have told us that we were in Italy. The
most unpractised eye could see at once the difference betwixt these statues and those of the
Transalpine churches. The Italian sculptors seemed to possess some secret by which they could
make the marble live. Some half-dozen of priests, with red copes (I presume it was a martyr's
day, for on such days the Church's dress is red), ranged in a pew near the altar, were singing
psalms. Whether the good men were thinking of their dinner, I knew not; but they yawned portentously,
wrung their hands with an air of helplessness, and looked at us as if they half expected that
we would volunteer to do duty for an hour or so in their stead. A bishop chanting his psalter
under the groined roof of cathedral, and a covenanter praying in his hill-side cave, would
form an admirable picture of two very different styles of devotion. There were some dozen of
old women on the floor, whom the mixed motive of saying their prayers and picking up a chance
alms seemed to have drawn thither. From the Duomo we went to the King's palace. We walked through
a suit of splendid apartments, though not quite accordant in their style of ornament and comfort
with our English ideas. The floor and roof were of rich and beautiful mosaics; the walls were
adorned with the more memorable battles of the Sardinian nation; and the furniture was minutely
and elaborately inlaid with mother-of-pearl. Three rooms more particularly attracted my attention.
The first contained the throne of the kings of Savoy,--a gilded chair, under a crimson canopy,
and surrounded by a gilt railing. I thought, as I gazed upon it, how often the power of that
throne had lain heavily upon the poor Waldenses. The other room contained the bed on which
King Charles Albert died. It is yet in my readers' recollection, that Charles Albert died at
Oporto; but the whole furniture of the room in which he breathed his last was transported,
together with his ashes, to Turin. It was an affecting sight. There it stood, huddled into
a corner,--a poor bed of boards, with a plain coverlet, such as a Spanish peasant might sleep
beneath; a chest of deal drawers; and a few of the necessary utensils of a sick chamber. The
third room contained the Queen's bed of state. Its windows opened sweetly upon the fine gardens
of the palace, where the first ray, as it slants downwards from the crest of the Alps into
the valley of the Po, falls on the massy foliage of the mulberry and the orange. On the table
were some six or eight books, among which was a copy of the Psalms of David. "It is very fine,"
said my friend Mr Bonar, glancing up at the gilded canopy and silken hangings of the bed, and
poking his hand at the same time into its soft woolly furnishings, "but nothing but blankets
can make it comfortable."

From the palace we passed to the Museum. There you see pictures, statues, coins stamped with
the effigies of kings that lived thousands of years ago, and papyrus parchments inscribed with
the hieroglyphics of old Egypt, and other curiosities, which it has required ages to collect,
as it would volumes to describe. Not the least interesting sight there is the gods of Egypt,--cats,
ibises, fish, monkeys, heads of calves and bulls, all lying in their original swathings. I
looked narrowly at these divinities, but could detect no difference betwixt the god-cat of
Egypt and the cats of our day. Were it possible to re-animate one of them, and make it free
of our streets, I fear the god would be mistaken for an ordinary quadruped of its own kind,
pelted and worried by mischievous boys and dogs, as other cats are. I do not know that a modern
priest of Turin has any very good ground for taunting an old Egyptian priest with his cat-worship.
If it is impossible to tell the difference betwixt a cat which is simply a cat, and a cat which
is a god, it is just as impossible to tell the difference betwixt a bread-wafer which is simply
bread, and a bread-wafer which is the flesh and blood, the soul and divinity, of Christ.

Seeing in Egypt the gods died, it will not surprise the reader that in Egypt men should die.
And there they lay, the brown sons and daughters of Mizraim, side by side with their gods,
wrapt with them in the same stoney, dreamless slumber. One mummy struck me much. It lay in
a stone sarcophagus, the same in which the hands of wife or child mayhap had placed it; and
there it had slept on undisturbed through all the changes and hubbub of four thousand years.
Over the face was drawn a thin cloth, through which the features could be seen not indistinctly.
Now, thought I, I shall hear all about old Egypt. Perhaps this man has seen Joseph, or talked
with Jacob, or witnessed the wonders of the exodus. Come, tell me your name or profession,
or some of the strange events of your history. Did you don the mail-coat of the warrior, or
the white robe of the priest? Did you till the ground, and live on garlic; or were you owner
of a princely estate, and wont to sit on your house-top of evenings, enjoying the delicious
twilight, and the soft flow of the Nile? Come now, tell me all. The door of a departed world
seemed about to open. I felt as if standing on its threshold, and looking in upon the shadowy
forms that peopled it. But ah! these lips spoke not. With the Rosetta stone as the key, I could
compel the granite slabs and the brown worn parchments around me to give up their secrets.
But where was the key that could open that breast, and read the secrets locked up in it?

And this form had still a living owner! This awoke a train of thought yet more solemn. Who,
what, and where is he? Anxious as I had been to have the door of that mysterious past in which
he had lived opened to me, I was yet more anxious to look into that more mysterious and awful
future into which he had gone. What had he seen and felt these four thousand years? Did the
ages seem long to him, or was it but as a few days since he left the earth? I went close up
to the dark curtain, but there was no opening,--no chink by which I could see into the world
beyond. Will no kind hand draw the veil aside but for a moment? There it has hung unlifted
age after age, concealing, with its impenetrable folds, all that mortals would most like to
know. Myriads and myriads have passed within, but not one has ever given back voice, or look,
or sign, to those they left behind, and from whom never before did they conceal thought or
wish. Why is this? Do they not still think of us? Do they not still love us? Would they softly
speak to us if they could? What gulf divides them? Ah! how silent are the dead!

Close by the great highway into Italy lie the "Valleys of the Vaudois." One might pass them
without being aware of their near presence, or that he was treading upon holy ground;--so near
to the world are they, and yet so completely hidden from it. Ascend the little hill on the
south of Turin, and follow with your eye the great wall of the Alps which bounds the plain
on the north. There, in the west, about thirty miles from where you stand, is a tall pyramidal-shaped
mountain, towering high above the other summits. That is Monte Viso, which rises like a heaven-erected
beacon, to signify from afar to the traveller the land of the Waldenses, and to call him, with
its solemn voice, to turn aside and see the spot where "the bush burned and was not consumed."
We shall make a short, a very short visit to these valleys, than which Europe has no more sacred
soil. But first let us speak of some of the bulwarks which an all-wise Providence has erected
in our day around a Church and people whose existence is one of the great living miracles of
the world.

The revolutions which swept over Italy in 1848 were the knell of the other Italian States,
but to Piedmont they were the trumpet of liberty. No man living can satisfactorily explain
why the same event should have operated so disasterously for the one, and so beneficially for
the other. No reason can be found in the condition of the country itself: the thing is inexplicable
on ordinary principles; and the more intelligent Piedmontese at this day speak of it as a miracle.
But so is the fact. Piedmont is a constitutional kingdom; and I went with M. Malan, himself
a Waldensian, and a member of the Chamber of Deputies, to see the hall where their Parliament
sits. A spacious flight of steps conducts to a noble hall, in form an ellipse, and surmounted
by a dome. At one end of the ellipse hangs a portrait of the President, and underneath is his
richly gilt chair, with a crimson-covered table before it. Right in front of the Speaker's
chair, on a lower level, is placed the tribune, which much resembles the precentor's desk in
a Scottish church. The tribune is occupied only when a Minister makes a Ministerial declaration,
or a Convener of a Committee gives in his Report. An open space divides the tribune from the
seats of the members. These last run all round the hall, in concentric rows of benches, also
covered with crimson. "There, on the right," said M. Malan, "sit the priest party. In the front
are the Ministerial members; on the left is my seat. There is an extreme left to which I do
not belong: I have not passed the constitutional line. This lower tier of galleries is for
the conductors of the press and the diplomatic corps; this higher gallery is for ladies and
military men. We are 204 members in all. We have a member for every twenty-five thousand inhabitants.
Our population is four millions and a half. Our House of Peers contains only ninety members.
The King has the privilege of nominating to it, but peers so created are only for life."

It was, in truth, a marvellous sight;--a free and independent Parliament meeting in the ancient
capital of the bigoted Piedmont, with a free press and a public looking on, and one of the
long proscribed Vaudois race occupying a seat in it. The more I thought of it, the more I wondered.
The causes which had led to so extraordinary a result seemed clearly providential. When King
Charles Albert in 1848 gave his subjects a Constitution, no one had asked it, and few there
were who could value it, or even knew what a Constitution meant. One or two public writers
there were who said that public opinion demanded it; but, in sooth, there was then no public
opinion in the country. Soon after this the campaign in Lombardy was commenced, and the result
of that campaign threatened the Piedmontese Constitution with extinction. The Piedmontese army
was beaten by the Austrians, and had to make a hasty and inglorious retreat into their own
country. Every one then expected that Radetzky would march upon Turin, put down the Constitution,
and seize upon Sardinia. Contrary to his usual habits, the old warrior halted on the frontier,
as if kept back by an invisible power, and the Constitution was saved. Then came the death
of Charles Albert, of a broken heart, in Oporto, whither he had fled; and every one believed
that the Piedmontese charter would accompany its author to the tomb. The dispositions and policy
of the new king were unknown; but the probability was that he would follow the example of his
brother sovereigns of Italy, all of whom had begun to revoke the Constitutions which they had
so recently inaugurated with solemn oaths. Happily these fears were not realized. The new perils
passed over, and left the Constitution unscathed. King Victor Immanuel,--a constitutional monarch
simply by accident,--turned out a good-natured, easy-minded man, who loved the chase and his
country seat, and found it more agreeable to live on good terms with his subjects, and enjoy
a handsome civil list,--which his Parliament has taken care to vote him,--than to be indebted
for his safety and a bankrupt exchequer to the bayonets of his guards. Thus marvellously, hitherto,
in the midst of dangers at home and re-action abroad, has the Piedmontese charter been preserved.
I dwell with the greater minuteness on this point, because on the integrity of that charter
are suspended the civil liberties of the Church of the Vaudois. When I was in Turin the Constitution
was three years old; but even then its existence was exceedingly precarious. The King could
have revoked it at any moment; and there was not then, I was assured by General Beckwith,--who
knows the state of the Piedmontese nation well,--moral power in the country to offer any effectual
resistance, had the royal will decreed the suppression of constitutional government. "But,"
added he, "should the Constitution live three years longer, the people by that time will have
become so habituated to the working of a free Constitution, and public opinion will have acquired
such strength, that it will be impossible for the monarch to retrace his steps, even should
he be so inclined." It is exactly three years since that time, and the state of the Piedmontese
nation at this moment is such as to justify the words of the sagacious old man.

The first grand difficulty in the way of the Constitution was, the numbers and power of the
priesthood. In no country in Europe,--not even in France and Austria, when their size is compared,--were
the benefices so numerous, or their holders so luxuriously fed. Piedmont was the paradise of
priests. The ecclesiastical statistics of that kingdom, furnished to the French journal La
Presse, on occasion of the introduction of the bill for suppressing the convents, on the 8th
of January 1855, reveals a state of things truly astonishing. Notwithstanding that the population
is only four and a half millions, there are in Sardinia 7 archbishops; 34 bishops; 41 chapters,
with 860 canons attached to the bishoprics; 73 simple chapters, with 470 canons; 1100 livings
for the canons; and, lastly, 4267 parishes, with some thousands of parish priests. The domain
of the Church represents a capital of 400 millions of francs, with a yearly revenue of 17 millions
and upwards. This enormous wealth is divided amongst the clergy in proportions grossly unequal.
The 41 prelates of Sardinia enjoy a revenue of nearly a million and a half of francs, which
is double what used to maintain all the bishops of the French empire. The Archbishop of Turin
has an income of 120,000 francs, which is more than the whole bench of Belgian bishops. The
other prelates are paid in proportion. As a set-off to this wealth, there are in Sardinia upwards
of 2000 curates, not one of whom has so much as 800 francs, or about L.35 sterling. These are
thus tempted to prey upon the people. Such is the terrible organization which the King and
Parliament have to encounter in carrying out their reforms, and such is the fearful incubus
which has pressed for ages upon the social rights and industrial energies of the Piedmontese
people.

But this is but a part of the great sacerdotal army encamped in Piedmont. There are 71 religious
orders besides, divided into 604 houses, containing in all 8563 monks and nuns. The expense
of feeding these six hundred houses, with their army of eight thousand strong, forms an item
of two millions and a-half of francs, and represents a capital of forty-five millions. The
greatest admirer of these fraternities will scarce deny that this is a handsome remuneration
for their services; indeed, we never could make out what these services really are. They do
not teach the youth, or pray with the aged. For reading they have no taste; and to write what
will be read, or preach what will be listened to, is far beyond their ability. Their pious
hands disdain all contact with the plough, and the loom, and the spade. They share with their
countrymen neither the labours of peace, nor the dangers of war. They lounge all day in the
streets, or about the wine shops; and, when the dinner-hour arrives, they troop home-wards,
to retail the gossip of the town over a groaning board and a well-filled flagon. Thus they
fatten like pigs, being about as cleanly, but scarce as useful. It is not surprising that a
bill should at last have reached the Chambers, proposing, first, the better distribution of
the revenues of the Church, equal to a fourth of the kingdom; and, second, the suppression
of those "houses," the rules of which bind over their members to sheer, downright idleness,
leaving only those who have some show of public duty to perform. The priests denounce the bill
as "spoliation and robbery" of course, and prophesy all manner of things against so wicked
a kingdom. Doubtless it is daring impiety in the eyes of Rome to forbid a man with a shaven
crown and a brown cloak to play the idler and vagabond. We are only surprised that the people
of Piedmont have so long suffered their labours to be eaten up by an order of men useless,
and worse than useless.

Another grand difficulty in Piedmont was the absence of a middle class,--wealthy, intelligent,
and independent. No one felt that he had rights, and you never heard people saying there, as
you may do in Britain, "this is my right, and I will have it." A feeling of individual right,
and of responsibility,--for the two go together,--was then just beginning to dawn upon the
popular mind. This was accompanied by a certain amount of disorganizing influence; not that
of Socialism,--which, happily, scarce existed in Piedmont,--but that of self-action. Every
one was feeling his own way. The priests, of course, were exceedingly wroth, and loudly accused
Protestantism as the cause of all this commotion in men's minds. Alas! there was no Protestantism
in Piedmont, for it had been one of the most bigoted kingdoms in Italy. It was their own handiwork;
for a tyranny always produces a democracy. As if by a miracle, a powerful and popular press
started up in Turin. The writers in the Opinione and the Gazetta del Popolo, acting, I suspect,
on a hint given by some Vaudois that there was an old book, now little known, that would help
them in the war they were now waging, went to the Bible, and, finding that it made against
the priests, were liberal in their quotations from it. Their most telling hits were the extracts
from Scripture; and finding it so, they quoted yet more largely. The priests were much concerned
to see Holy Scripture so far profaned as to be quoted in newspapers, and exposed freely to
the gaze of the vulgar. But what could they do? Their own literary qualifications did not warrant
them to enter the lists with these writers: they had forgot the way to preach, unless at Lent;
they could work the confessional, but even it began to be silenced by the powerful artillery
of the press. At an earlier stage they might have roused the peasantry, and marched upon the
Constitution, whose life they knew was the death of their power; but it was too late in 1851.
An attempt of this sort made a year or two after, among the peasantry of the Val d'Aosta, turned
out a miserable failure. Thus, a movement which in other countries came forward under the sanction
of the priesthood, from the very outset in Piedmont took a contrary direction, and set in full
against the Church. Since that day liberty has been working itself, bit by bit, into the action
of the Constitution, and the feelings of the people; and now, I believe, neither King nor Parliament,
were they so inclined, could put it down.

The sum of the matter then is, that of all the kingdoms which the era of 1848 started in the
path of free government, the brave little State of Piedmont alone has persevered to this day.
Amid the wide weltering sea of Italian anarchy and despotism, here, and here alone, liberty
finds a spot on which to plant her foot. Again we ask, why is this? There is nothing in the
past history of the country,--nothing in the present state of the nation,--which can account
for it. We must look elsewhere for a solution; and we do not hesitate to avow our firm conviction,
that a special Providence has shielded the Constitution of Piedmont, because with that Constitution
is bound up the liberties of the ancient martyr Church of the Vaudois. It was the only one
of the Italian Constitutions that carried in it so sacred a guarantee of permanency. On the
17th of February 1848 (the day is worth remembering), Charles Albert, by a royal edict, admitted
the Waldenses to the enjoyment of all civil and political rights, in common with the rest of
their fellow-subjects. Now, for the first time in a thousand years, the trumpet of liberty
sounded amid the Vaudois valleys; and the shout of joy which the Alps sent back seemed like
the first response to the prayer which had so often ascended from these hills, "How long, O
Lord." Would not Sodom have been spared had ten righteous men been found in it? and why not
Piedmont, seeing the Waldensian Church was there? Yes, Piedmont is the little Zoar of the Italian
plains! Little may its people reck to whom it is they owe their escape. It is nevertheless
a truth that, but for the poor Vaudois, whom, instigated by the Pope, they long and ruthlessly
laboured to exterminate, their country would have been at this day in the same gulph of social
demoralization and political re-action with Tuscany, and Naples, and Rome. These last were
taken, and Piedmont escaped.

And the country is truly flourishing. It has thriven every day since Charles Albert emancipated
the Vaudois. No one can cross its frontier without being struck with the contrast it presents
to the other Italian States. While they are decaying like a corpse, it is flourishing like
the chestnut-tree of its own mountains. The very faces of the people may tell you that the
country is free and prosperous. Its citizens walk about with the cheerful, active air of men
who have something to do and to enjoy, and not with the listless, desponding, heart-sick look
which marks the inhabitants of the other States of Italy. Here, too, you miss that universal
beggary and vagabondism that disfigure and pollute all the other countries of the Peninsula.
What rich loam the ploughman turns up! What magnificent vines shade its plains! Public works
are in progress, railways have been formed, and new houses are building. Not fewer than a hundred
houses were built in Turin last year, which is more, I verily believe, than in all the other
Italian towns out of Piedmont taken together. Thus, while the other States of Italy are foundering
in the tempest, Piedmont lives because it carries the Vaudois and their fortunes.

From the hall of the Chamber of Deputies I went with M. Malan to the office of the Gazetta
del Popolo, to be introduced to its editors. The Gazetta del Popolo is a daily paper, with
a circulation of 15,000; and, being sold at a penny, is universally read by the middle and
lower classes. It is the Times of Piedmont. Its editors are men of great talent, and write
with the practical good sense and racy style of Cobbett. They are not religious men, neither
are they Romanists, though nominally connected with the Church of the State; but they are warm
advocates of constitutional government, hearty haters of the Papacy, and have done much to
enlighten the public mind, and loosen it from Romanism. They first of all made inquiries respecting
the external resemblance of Puseyistic and Popish worship, as I had seen the latter in Italy.
They made yet more eager inquiries respecting the progress and prospects of Puseyism in England,
and about a then recent declaration of the Archbishop of Canterbury, to the effect that there
were only two Bishops in the Church of England that had gone over to Puseyism. They seemed
to feel that the fortunes of the Papacy would turn mainly upon the fortunes of Puseyism in
England. As regarded the Archbishop, I replied, that I believed in the substantial accuracy
of his statement, that there were not more than two members of the episcopate who could be
held to be decided Puseyites; and as regarded the progress of Puseyism, I said, that it had
been making great and rapid progress, but that the papal aggression, in my humble opinion,
had dealt a somewhat heavy blow to both Popery and Puseyism,--that so long as Romanism came
begging for toleration, it had found great favour in the eyes of the liberals; but when it
came claiming to govern, it had scared away many of its former supporters, who had come to
know it better,--and that the Protestant feeling which the aggression had evoked on the part
of the Court, the Parliament, and the people, had tended to discourage Romanism, and all kindred
or identical creeds. They were delighted to hear this, and said that they would baptize the
fact in the Gazetta del Popolo, "the assassination of the Papacy by Cardinal Wiseman." Their
paper, M. Malan afterwards told me, is published on Sabbaths as well (there are worse things
done on that day in Italy, even by bishops), on which day they print their weekly sermon. "You
won't preach," say they to the priests; "therefore we will;" and it is in their Sabbath sheet
that they make their bitterest assaults upon the priesthood. They quote largely from Scripture:
not that they wish to establish evangelical truth, of which they know little, but because they
find such quotations to be the most powerful weapons which they can employ against the Papacy.
In truth, they advertised in this way the Bible to their countrymen, many of whom had never
heard of such a book till then.

I was inexpressibly delighted to find such men in Turin wielding such influence, and took the
liberty of saying at parting, that we in England had beheld with admiration the noble stand
Piedmont had made in behalf of constitutional government,--that we were watching with intense
interest the future career of their nation,--that we were cherishing the hope that they would
manfully maintain the ground they had taken up,--and that in England, and especially in Scotland,
we felt that the root of all the despotism of the Continent was the Papacy,--that the way to
strike for liberty was to strike at Rome,--and that till the Papacy was overthrown, never would
the nations of the world be either free or happy. They assured me that in these sentiments
they heartily concurred, and that they were the very ideas they were endeavouring to propagate.
They gave me, on taking leave, a copy of that morning's paper as a souvenir; and on examining
it afterwards, I found that the topic of its leading article was quite in the vein of our conversation.
The great bulk of the liberal party in Piedmont shared even then the ideas of the editors of
the Gazetta del Popolo, and felt that to lay the foundations of constitutional liberty, they
needs must raze those of Rome. This is a truth; and not only so,--it is the primal truth in
the science of European liberty. This truth only now begins to be understood on the Continent.
It is the main lesson which the re-action of 1849 has been overruled to teach. All former insurrections
have been against kings and aristocrats: even in 1848 the Italians were willing to accept the
leadership of the Pope. The perfidies and atrocities of which they have since been the victims
have burned the essential tyranny of the papal system into their minds; and the next insurrection
that takes place will be against the Papacy.

A constitution, a free press, and a public opinion, are but the outward defences of a divine
and immortal principle, which, rooted in the soil of Piedmont, has outlived a long winter,
and is now beginning to bud afresh, and to send forth goodlier shoots than ever. To this I
next turned. Conducted by M. Malan, I went to the western quarter of Turin, where, amid the
gardens and elegant mansions of the suburbs, workmen were digging the foundations of what was
to be a spacious building. On this spot the Dominicans in former ages had burned the bodies
of the martyrs; and now the Waldensian temple stands here,--a striking proof, surely, of the
immortality of truth,--to rise, and live, and speak boldly, on the very spot where she had
been bound to a stake, burned, and extinguished, as the persecutor believed. This church, not
the least elegant in a city abounding with elegant structures, has since been opened, and is
filled every Sabbath with well-nigh a thousand auditors,--the largest congregation, I will
venture to say, in Turin.

In 1851 I could visit the cradle of this movement. It had its first rise in the labours of
Felix Neff, twenty-five years before; but it was not till the revolution of 1848 that it appeared
above ground. Even in 1851, colportage among the Piedmontese was prohibited, though it was
allowable to print or import the Bible for the use of the Waldenses, and the Government winked
at its sale to their Roman Catholic fellow-subjects. I was shown in M. Malan's banking office
the Bible depot, and was gratified to find that the sales which were made to applicants only
had during the past year amounted to a thousand copies. Evening meetings were held every day
of the week, in various parts of Turin, at which the Bible was read, and points of controversy
betwixt Christianity and Romanism eagerly discussed. The Rev. M. Meille, the able editor of
the Buona Novella,--a paper then just starting,--informed me that not fewer than ninety persons
had been present at the meeting superintended by him the night before. These week-day assemblages,
as well as the Sabbath audiences, were of a very miscellaneous character,--Vaudois, who had
come to Turin to be servants, for, prior to the revolution, they could be nothing else; Piedmontese
tradesmen; Swiss, Germans, and Italian refugees, to whom three pastors ministered,--one in
French, one in German, and a third in the Italian tongue. There were then not fewer than ten
re-unions every week in Turin. The idea, too, had been started of taking advantage of the workmen's
clubs for the propagation of the gospel. A network of such societies covered northern and central
Italy. The clubs in Turin corresponded with those in Genoa, Alessandria, and all the principal
towns of Piedmont; and these again with similar clubs in central Italy; and any new theory
or doctrine introduced into one soon made the round of all. The plan adopted was to send evangelical
workmen into these clubs, who were listened to as they propounded the new plan of justification
by faith. The clubs in Turin were first leavened with the gospel; thence it was extended to
Genoa, and gradually also to central Italy. While the prolétaires in France were discussing
the claims of labour, the workmen in Piedmont were canvassing the doctrines of the New Testament;
and hence the difference betwixt the two countries.

It was now drawing towards sunset, and I purposed enjoying the twilight,--delicious in all
climates, but especially in Italy,--on the terrace of the College or Monastery of the Capuchins.
This monastery stands on the Collina, a romantic height on the south of Turin, washed by the
Po, with villas and temples on its crest and summits. I took my way through the noble street
that leads southwards, halting at the book-stalls, and picking out of their heaps of rubbish
an Italian copy of the Catechism of Bossuet, Bishop of Meaux. The Collina was all in a blaze;
the windows of the Palazzo Regina glittered in the setting beams; and the dome of the Superga
shone like gold. Crossing the Po, I ascended by the winding avenue of shady acacias, which
are planted there to protect the cowled heads of the fathers from the noonday sun. One of the
monks was winding his way up hill, at a pace which gave me full opportunity of observing him.
A little black cap covered his scalp; his round bullet-head, which bristled with short, thick-set
hairs, joined on, by a neck of considerably more than the average girth, to shoulders of Atlantean
dimensions. His body was enveloped in a coarse brown mantle, which descended to his calves,
and was gathered round his middle with a slender white cord. His naked feet were thrust into
sandals. The features of the "religious" were coarse and swollen; and he strode up hill before
me with a gait which would have made a peaceful man, had he met him on a roadside in Scotland,
give him a wide offing. Parties of soldiers wounded in the late campaign were sauntering in
the square of the monastery, or looking over the low wall at the city beneath. Their pale and
sickly looks formed a striking contrast to the athletic forms of the full-fed monks. It was
inexplicable to me, that the youth of Sardinia, immature and raw, should be drafted into the
army, while such an amount of thews and sinews as this monastery, and hundreds more, contained,
should be allowed to run to waste, or worse. If but for their health, the monks should be compelled
to fight the next campaign.

The sun went down. Long horizontal shafts of golden light shot through amidst the Alps; their
snows glittered with a dazzling whiteness: whiteness is a weak term;--it was a brilliant and
lustrous glory, like that of light itself. Anon a crimson blush ran along the chain. It faded;
it came again. A wall of burning peaks, from two to three hundred miles in length, rose along
the horizon. Eve, with her purple shadows, drew on; and I left the mountains under a sky of
vermilion, with Monte Viso covering with its shadow the honoured dust that sleeps around it,
and pointing with its stony finger to that sky whither the spirits of the martyred Vaudois
have now ascended. It seemed to say, "Come and see."

CHAPTER IV.

STRUCTURE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE VAUDOIS VALLEYS.

     Journey to "Valleys"--Dinner at Pignerolo--Grandeur of
     Scenery--Associations--Bicherasio--Procession of
     Santissimo--Connection betwixt the History and the Country of the
     Vaudois--The Three Valleys of Martino, Angrona, and Lucerna--Their
     Arrangement--Strength--Fertility--La Tour--The Castelluzzo--Scenery
     of the Val Lucerna--The Manna of the Waldenses--Populousness of the
     Valleys--Variety of Productions--The Roman Flood and the Vaudois
     Ark.

The Valleys of the Vaudois lie about thirty miles to the south-west of Turin. The road thither
it is scarce possible to miss. Keeping the lofty and pyramidal summit of Monte Viso in your
eye, you go straight on, in a line parallel with the Alps, along the valley of the Po, which
is but a prolongation of the great plain of Lombardy. On my way down to these valleys, I observed
on the roadside numerous little temples, which the natives, in true Pagan fashion, had erected
to their deities. The niches of these temples were filled with Madonnas, crucifixes, and saints,
gaunt and grizzly, with unlighted candles stuck before them, or rude paintings and tinsel baubles
hung up as votive offerings. The signboards--especially those of the wine venders--were exceedingly
religious. They displayed, for the most part, a bizarre painting of the Virgin, and occasionally
of the Pope; and not unfrequently underneath these personages were a company of heretics, such
as those I was going to visit, sweltering in flames. Were a Protestant vintner to sell his
ale beneath a picture of Catholics burning in hell, I fear we should never hear the last of
it. But I must say, that these pictures seemed the production of past times. They were one
and all sorely faded, as if their owners were beginning to be somewhat ashamed of them, or
lacked zeal to repair them. The conducteur of the stage had an Italian translation of Mr Gladstone's
well-known pamphlet on Naples in his hand, which then covered all the book-stalls in Turin,
and was read by every one. This led to a lively discussion on the subject of the Church, between
him and two fellow-travellers, to whom I had been introduced at starting, as Waldenses. I observed
that, although he appeared to come off but second best in the controversy, he bore all with
unruffled humour, as if not unwilling to be beaten. At length, after a ride of twenty miles
over the plain, in which the husbandman, with plough as old in its form as the Georgics, was
turning up a soil rich, black, and glossy as the raven's wing, we arrived at Pignerolo, a town
on the borders of the Vaudois land.

The two Vaudois and myself adjourned to the hotel to dine. Even in this we had an instance
of changed times. In this very town of Pignerolo a law had been in existence, and was not long
repealed, forbidding, under severe penalties, any one to give meat or drink to a Vaudois. The
"Valleys" were only ten miles distant, and we agreed to walk thither on foot. Indeed, all such
spots must be so visited, if one would feel their full influence. Leaving Pignerolo, the road
began to draw into the bosom of the mountains, and the scenery became grander at every step.
On the right rose the hills of the Vaudois, with knolls glittering with woods and cottages
scattered at their feet. On the left, long reaches of the Po, meandering through pasturages
and vineyards, gleamed out golden in the western sun. The scenery reminded me much of the Highlands
at Comrie, only it was on a scale of richness and magnificence unknown to Scotland.

After advancing a few miles, I chanced to turn and look back. The change the mountains had
undergone struck me much. A division of Alps, tall and cloud-capped, appeared to have broken
off from the main army, and to have come marching into the plain; and while the mountains were
closing in upon us behind, they appeared to be falling back in front, and arranging themselves
into the segment of a vast circle. A magnificent amphitheatre had risen noiselessly around
us. On all sides save the south, where a reach of the valley was still visible, the eye met
only a lofty wall of mountains, hung in a rich and gorgeous tapestry of bright green pasturages
and shady pine-forests, with the frequent sunlight gleam of white chalets. The snows of their
summits were veiled in masses of cloud, which the southerly winds were bringing up upon them
from the Mediterranean. I seemed to have entered some stately temple,--a temple not of mortal
workmanship,--which needed no tall shaft, no groined roof, no silver lamps, no chisel or pencil
of artist to beautify it, and no white-robed priest to make it holy. It had been built by Him
whose power laid the foundations of the earth, and hung the stars in heaven; and it had been
consecrated by sacrifices such as Rome's mitred priests never offered in aisled cathedral.
Nor had it been the scene only of lofty endurance: it had been the scene also of sweet and
holy joys. There the Vaudois patriarchs, like Enoch, had "walked with God;" there they had
read his Word, and kept his Sabbaths. They had sung his praise by these silvery brooks, and
kneeled in prayer beneath these chestnut trees. There, too, arose the shout of triumphant battle;
and from those valleys the Vaudois martyrs had gone up, higher than these white peaks, to take
their place in the white-robed and palm-bearing company. Can the spirit, I asked myself, ever
forget its earthly struggles, or the scene on which they were endured? and may not the very
same picture of beauty and grandeur now before my eye be imprinted eternally on the memory
of many of the blessed in Heaven?

There was silence on plain and mountain,--a hush like that of a sanctuary, reverent and deep,
and broken only by the flow of the torrent and the sound of voices among the vineyards. I could
not fail to observe that sounds here were more musical than on the plain. This is a peculiarity
belonging to mountainous regions; but I have nowhere seen it so perceptible as here. Every
accent had a fullness and melody of tone, as if spoken in a whispering gallery. Right in the
centre of the circle formed by the mountains was the entrance of the Vaudois valleys. The place
was due north from where we now were, but we had to make a considerable detour in order to
reach it. A long low hill, rough with boulders and feathery with woods, lay across the mouth
of these valleys; and we had to go round it on the west, and return along the fertile vale
which divides it from the high Alps, whose straths and gorges form the dwellings of the Waldenses.

A dream it seemed to be, walking thus within the shadow of the Vaudois hills. And then, too,
what a strange chance was it which had thrown me into the society of my two Waldensian fellow-travellers!
They had met me on the threshold of their country, as if sent to bid me welcome, and conduct
my steps into a land which the prayers and sufferings of their forefathers had for ever hallowed.
They could not speak a word of my tongue; and to them my transalpine Italian was not more than
intelligible. Yet, such is the power of a common sympathy, the conversation did not once flag
all the way; and it had reference, of course, to one subject. I told them that I was not unacquainted
with their glorious history;--that from a child I had known the noble deeds of their fathers,
who had received an equal place in my veneration with the men of old, "who through faith subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions. The eyes of
my Vaudois friends kindled; they were not unconscious, I could see, of their noble lineage;
and they were visibly touched by the circumstance that a stranger from a distant land--drawn
thither by sympathy with the great struggles of their nation--should come to visit their mountains.
Every object in any way connected with their history, and especially with their persecutions,
was carefully pointed out to me. "There," said they, "is our frontier church, the first of
the Vaudois candles," pointing to a white edifice that gleamed out upon us amid woods and rocks,
on the summit of a hill, soon after leaving Pignerolo. They mentioned, too, with peculiar emphasis,
the year of the last great massacre of their brethren. The memory of that transaction, I feel
assured, will perish only with the Vaudois race. Nor can I forget the evident pride with which,
on nearing the valley of Lucerne, they pointed to the giant form of their Castelluzzo, now
looming through the shades of night, and told me that in the caves of that mighty rock their
fathers found shelter, when the valley beneath was covered with armed men.

Nowhere had I seen more luxuriant vines. They were festooned, too, after the manner of those
I had seen among the Alps; but here the effect was more beautiful. They were literally stretched
out over entire fields in an unbroken web of boughs. Clothed with luxuriant foliage, they looked
like another azure canopy extended over the soil. There was ample room beneath for the ploughman
and his bullocks. The golden beams, struggling through the massy foliage, fell in a mellow
and finely tinted shower on the newly ploughed soil. Wheat is said to ripen better beneath
the vine-shade than in the open sun. The season of grapes was shortly past; but here and there
large clusters were still pendent on the bough.

Hitherto, although we had been skirting the Vaudois territory, we had not set foot upon it.
The line which separates it from the rest of Piedmont touches the small town of Bicherasio,
on the western flank of the low hill I have mentioned; and the roofs of the little town were
already in sight. Passing, on the left, a white-walled mass-house on a small height, with the
priest looking at us from amid the autumn-tinted vine leaves that shaded the wall, we entered
the town of Bicherasio. The first sight we saw was a procession advancing up the street at
double-quick time. I was at first sorely puzzled what to make of it. There was an air of mingled
fun and gravity on the faces of the crowd; but the former so greatly predominated, that I took
the affair for a frolic of the youths of Bicherasio. First came a squad of dirty boys, some
of whom carried prayer-books: these were followed by some dozen or so of young women in their
working attire, ranged in line, and carrying flambeaux. In the centre of the procession was
a tall raw-boned priest, of about twenty-five years of age, with a little box in his hand.
His head was bare, and he wore a long brown dress, bound with a cord round his middle. A canopy
of crimson cloth, sorely soiled and tarnished, was borne over him by four of the taller lads.
He had a flurried and wild look, as if he had slept out in the woods all night, and had had
time only to shake himself, and put his fingers through his hair, before being called on to
run with his little box. The procession closed, as it had opened, with a cloud of noisy and
dirty urchins hanging on the rear of the priest and his flambeaux-bearing company. The whole
swept past us at such a rapid pace, that I could only, by way of divining its object, open
large wondering eyes upon it, which the large-boned lad in the brown cloak noticed, and repaid
with a scowl, which broke no bones, however. "He is carrying the santissimo," said my fellow-travellers,
when the procession had passed, "to a dying man." We passed the line, and set foot on the Vaudois
territory. Being now on privileged soil, and safe from any ebullition which the scant reverence
we had paid the procession of the santissimo might have drawn upon us, we entered a small albergo,
and partook together of a bottle of wine. Our long walk, and the warmth of the evening, made
the refreshment exceedingly agreeable. By way of commending the qualities of their soil, my
companions remarked, that "this was the vine of the land." I felt disposed to deal with it
as David did with the water of the well of Bethlehem, for here--

 "The nurture of the peasant's vines
 Hath been the martyr's blood!"

It was dark before I reached La Tour; but one of my fellow-travellers--the other having left
us at San Giovanni--accompanied me every footstep of the way, having passed his own dwelling
two full miles, to do me this kindness.

I must remind the reader, that this is simply a look in upon the Vaudois, on my way to Rome.
I purpose here no description in full of the territory of the Vaudois, or of the people of
the Vaudois. Their hills were shrouded in cloud and rain all the while I lived amongst them;
and although my intention was to visit on foot every inch of their country, and more especially
the scenes of their great struggles, I was compelled, after waiting well nigh a week, to take
my departure without having accomplished this part of my object. Leaving, then, the seeing
and describing these famous valleys to some possibly future day, all I shall attempt here is
to convey some idea of the structural arrangement--the osteology, if I may call it so--of the
Waldensian territory, and the general condition of the Waldensian people. First, of their country.

A country and its people can never well be separated. The former, with silent but ceaseless
influence, moulds the genius and habits of the latter, and determines the character of their
history. It marks them out as fated for slavery or freedom,--degradation or glory. The country
of the Vaudois is the material basis of their history; and the sublime points of their scenery
join in, as it were, with the sublime passages of their nation. Without such a country, we
cannot conceive how the Vaudois could have escaped extermination. The fertility and grandeur
of their valleys were no chance gifts, but special endowments, having reference to the mighty
moral struggle of which they were the destined theatre. It is this sentiment that forms the
living spirit in the beautiful lines of Mrs Hemans, entitled, "The Hymn of the Vaudois Mountaineers:"--

 For the strength of the hills we bless thee.
   Our God, our fathers' God.
 Thou hast made thy children mighty,
   By the touch of the mountain sod.
 Thou hast fixed our ark of refuge
   Where the spoiler's foot ne'er trod;
 For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
   Our God, our fathers' God!

 We are watchers of a beacon
   Whose light must never die;
 We are guardians of an altar
   'Midst the silence of the sky.
 The rocks yield founts of courage,
   Struck forth as by thy rod;
 For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
   Our God, our fathers' God!

 For the dark resounding caverns,
   Where thy still small voice is heard;
 For the strong pines of the forests
   That by thy breath are stirred;
 For the storms on whose free pinions
   Thy spirit walks abroad;
 For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
   Our God, our fathers' God!

 The banner of the chieftain
   Far, far below us waves;
 The war horse of the spearman
   Cannot reach our lofty caves.
 Thy dark clouds wrap the threshold
   Of freedom's last abode;
 For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
   Our God, our fathers' God!

 For the shadow of thy presence
   Round our camp of rock outspread;
 For the stern defiles of battle,
   Bearing record of our dead;
 For the snows and for the torrents,
   For the free heart's burial sod;
 For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
   Our God, our fathers' God! "A place prepared"
undoubtedly implies a special arrangement and a special adaptation, in
the future dwelling of the Church, to the mission to be assigned her.
The "wilderness" of the Apocalypse, we are inclined to think, is the
great chain of the Alps; and the "place prepared" in that wilderness, we
are also inclined to think, are the Cottian Alps, and more especially
those valleys in the Cottian Alps which the confessors, known as the
Vaudois, inhabited. Long after Rome had subjugated the plains, she
possessed scarce a foot-breadth among the mountains. These, throughout
well-nigh their entire extent, from where the Simplon road now cuts the
chain, to the sea, were peopled by the professors of the gospel. They
were a Goshen of light in the midst of an Egypt of darkness; and in
these peaceful and sublime solitudes holy men fed their flocks amid the
green pastures and beside the clear waters of evangelical truth. But
persecution came: it waxed hot; and every succeeding century beheld
these confessors fewer in number, and their territory more restricted.
At last all that remained to the Vaudois were only three valleys at the
foot of Monte Viso; and if we examine their structure, we will find them
arranged with special reference to the war the Church was here called to
wage.

The three valleys are the Val Martino, the Val Angrona, and the Val Lucerna. Nothing could
be simpler than their arrangement; at the same time, nothing could be stronger. The three valleys
spread out like a fan,--radiating, as it were, from the same point, and stretching away in
a winding vista of vineyards, meadows, chestnut groves, dark gorges, and foaming torrents,
to the very summits and glaciers of the Alps. Nearly at the point of junction of the Val Angrona
and the Val Lucerna stands La Tour, the capital of the valleys. It consists of a single street
(for the few off-shoots are not worth mentioning) of two-storey houses, whitewashed, and topped
with broad eves, which project till they leave only a narrow strip of sky visible overhead.
The town winds up the hill for a quarter of a mile or so, under the shadow of the famous Castelluzzo,--a
stupendous mountain of rock, which shoots up, erect as a column on its pedestal, to a height
of many thousands of feet, and, in other days, sheltered, as I have said, in its stony arms,
the persecuted children of the valleys, when the armies of France and Savoy gathered round
its base. How often I watched it, during my stay there, as its mighty form now became lost,
and now flashed forth from the mountain mists! Over what sad scenes has that rock looked! It
has seen the peaceful La Tour a heap of smoking ruins, and the clear waters of the Pelice,
which meander at its feet, red with the blood of the children of the valleys. It has heard
the wrathful execrations of armed men ascending where the prayers and praises of the Vaudois
were wont to come, borne on the evening breeze,--scenes unspeakably affecting, but which, nevertheless,
from the principle which they embodied, and the Christian heroism which they evoked, add dignity
to humanity itself. When we would rebut those universal libels which infidels have written
upon our race, we point to the Vaudois. However corrupt whole nations and continents may have
been, that nature which could produce the Vaudois must have originally possessed, and be still
capable of having imparted to it, God-like qualities.

The strength of the Vaudois position, as I take it, lies in this, that the three valleys have
their entrance within a comparatively narrow space. The country of the Vaudois was, in fact,
an immense citadel, with its foundation on the rock, and its top above the clouds, and with
but one gate of entrance. That gate could be easily defended; nay, it was defended. He who
built this mighty fortress had thrown up a rampart before its gate, as if with a special eye
to the protection of its inmates. The long hill of which I have already spoken, which rises
to a height of from four to five hundred feet, lies across the opening of these valleys, at
about a mile's breadth, and serves as a wall of defence. But even granting that this entrance
should be forced, as it sometimes was, there were ample means within the mountains themselves,
which were but a congeries of fortresses, for prolonging the contest. The valleys abound with
gorges and narrow passages, where one man might maintain the way against fifty. There were,
too, escarpments of rock, with galleries and caves known only to the Vaudois. Even the mists
of their hills befriended them; veiling them, on some memorable instances, from the keen pursuit
of their foes. Thus, every foot-breadth of their territory was capable of being contested,
and was contested against the flower of the French and Sardinian armies, led against them in
overwhelming numbers, with a courage which Rome never excelled, and a patriotism which Greece
never equalled. The same architect who built the fortress had provisioned it, so to speak,
and that in no stinted measure. He who placed magazines of bread in the clouds, and rained
it upon the Israelites when they journeyed through the desert, had laid up store of corn, and
oil, and wine, in the soil of these valleys; so that the Vaudois, when their enemies pressed
them on the plain, and cut off their supplies from without, might still enjoy within their
own mountain rampart abundance of all things.

On the first morning after my arrival, I walked out along the Val Lucerna southward. Flowers
and fruit in rich profusion covered every spot of ground under the eye, from the banks of the
stream to the skirts of the mist that veiled the mountains. The fields, which were covered
with the various cultivation of wheat, maize, orchards, and vineyards, were fenced with neatly
dressed hedge-rows. The vine-stocks were magnificently large, and their leaves had already
acquired the fine golden yellow which autumn imparts. At a little distance, on a low hill,
deeply embosomed in foliage, was the church of San Giovanni, looking as brilliantly white as
if it had been a piece of marble fresh from the chisel. Hard by, peeping out amidst fruit-bearing
trees, was the village of Lucerna. On the right rose the mighty wall of the Alps; on the left
the valley opened out into the plain of the Po, bounded by a range of blue-tinted hills, which
stretched away to the south-west, mingling in the distant horizon with the mightier masses
of the Alps. The sun now broke through the haze; and his rays, falling on the luxuriant beauty
of the valley, and on the more varied but not less rich covering of the hill-side,--the pasturages,
the winding belts of planting, the white chalets,--lighted up a picture which a painter might
have exhibited as a relic of an unfallen world, or a reminiscence of that garden from which
transgression drove man forth.

After breakfast, I sallied out to explore the valley of Lucerne, at the entrance of which is
placed, as I have said, La Tour, the capital of the Waldenses. My intention was to trace its
windings all the way, past the village and church of Bobbio, and up the mountains, till it
loses itself amid the snows of their summits,--an expedition which was brought to an abrupt
termination by the black clouds which came rolling up the valley at noon like the smoke of
a furnace, followed by torrents of rain. Threading my way through the narrow winding street
of La Tour, and skirting the base of the giant Castelluzzo, I emerged upon the open valley.
I was enchanted by its mingled loveliness and grandeur. Its bottom, which might be from one
to two miles in breadth, though looking narrower, from the titanic character of its mountain-boundary,
was, up to a certain point, one continuous vineyard. The vine there attains a noble stature,
and stretches its arms from side to side of the valley in rich and lovely festoons, veiling
from the great heat of the sun the golden grain which grows underneath. On either hand the
mountains rise to the sky, not bare and rocky, but glowing with the vine, or shady with the
chestnut, and pouring into the lap of the Vaudois, corn, and wine, and fruit. Their sides were
covered throughout with vineyards, corn-fields, glades of green pasturages, clumps of forests
and fruit-trees, mansions and chalets, and silvery streamlets, which meandered amid their terraces,
or leaped in flashing light down the mountain, to join the Pelice at its bottom. Not a foot-breadth
was barren. This teeming luxuriance attested at once the qualities of the soil and sun, and
the industry of the Vaudois.

As I proceeded up the Val Lucerna, the same scene of mingled richness and magnificence continued.
The golden vine still kept its place in the bottom of the valley, and stretched out its arms
in very wantonness, as if the limits of the Val Lucerna were too small for its exuberant and
generous fruitfulness. The hills gained in height, without losing in fertility and beauty.
They offered to the eye the same picture of vine-rows, pasturages, chestnut-groves, and chalets,
from the torrent at their bottom, up to the edge of the floating mist that covered their tops.
At times the sun would break in, and add to the variety of lights which diversified the landscape.
For already the hand of autumn had scattered over the foliage her beautiful tints of all shades,
from the bright green of the pastures, down through the golden yellow of the vine, to the deep
crimson of those trees which are the first to fade.

A farther advance, and the aspect of the Val Lucerna changed slightly. The vineyards ceased
on the level grounds at the bottom of the valley, and in their place came rich meadow lands,
on which herds were grazing. The hills on the left were still ribbed with the vine. On the
right, along which, at a high level on the hill-side, ran the road, the chestnut groves became
more frequent, and large boulders began occasionally to be seen. It was here that the rolling
mass of cloud, so fearfully black, that it seemed of denser materials than vapour, which had
followed me up hill, overtook me, and by the deluge of rain which it let fall, effectually
forbade my farther progress.

The same shower which forbade my farther exploration of the Val Lucerna, arresting me, with
cruel interdict, as it seemed, on the very threshold of a region teeming with grandeur, and
encompassed with the halo of imperishable deeds, threw me, by a sort of compensatory chance,
upon the discovery of another most interesting peculiarity of the Waldensian territory. The
heavy rain compelled me to seek shelter beneath the boughs of a wide-spread chestnut-tree;
and there, for the space of an hour, I remained perfectly dry, though the big drops were falling
all around. Soon a continuous beating, as if of the fall of substances from a considerable
height on the ground, attracted my attention,--tap, tap, tap. The sound told me that something
was falling bigger and heavier than the rain-drops; but the long grass prevented me at first
seeing what it was. A slight search, however, showed me that the tree beneath which I stood
was actually letting fall a shower of nuts. These nuts were large and fully ripened. The breeze
became slightly stronger, and the fruit shower from the trees increased so much, that a soft
muffled sound rang through the whole wood. It was literally raining food. Some millions of
nuts must have fallen that day in the Val Lucerna. I saw the young peasant girls coming from
the chalets and farm-houses, to glean beneath the boughs; and a short time sufficed to fill
their sacks, and send them back laden with the produce of the chestnut-tree. These nuts are
roasted and eaten as food; and very nutritious food they are. In all the towns of northern
Italy you see persons in the streets roasting them in braziers over charcoal fires, and selling
them to the people, to whom they form no very inconsiderable part of their food. I have oftener
than once, on a long ride, breakfasted on them, with the help of a cluster of grapes, or a
few apples. This was the manna of the Waldenses. And how often have the persecuted Vaudois,
when driven from their homes, and compelled to seek refuge in those high altitudes where the
vine does not grow, subsisted for days and weeks upon the produce of the chestnut-tree! I could
not but admire in this the wise arrangement of Him who had prepared these valleys as the future
abode of his Church. Not only had He taught the earth to yield her corn, and the hills wine,
but even the skies bread. Bread was rained around their caves and hiding-places, plenteous
as the manna of old; and the Vaudois, like the Israelites, had but to gather and eat.

I came also to the conclusion, that the land which the Lord had given to the Waldenses was
a "large" as well as a "good" land. It is only of late that the Vaudois have been restricted
to the three valleys I have named; but even taking their country as at present defined, its
superficial area is by no means so inconsiderable as it is apt to be accounted by one who hears
of it as confined to but three valleys. Spread out these valleys into level plains, and you
find that they form a large country. It is not only the broad bottom of the valley that is
cultivated;--the sides of the hills are clothed up to the very clouds with vineyards and corn-lands,
and are planted with all manner of trees, yielding fruit after their kind. Where the husbandman
is compelled to stop, nature takes up the task of the cultivator; and then come the chestnut-groves,
with their loads of fruit, and the short sweet grass on which cattle depasture in summer, and
the wild flowers from which the bees elaborate their honey. Overtopping all are the fields
of snow, the great reservoirs of the springs and rivers which fertilize the country. This arrangement
admitted, moreover, of far greater variety, both of climate and of produce, than could possibly
obtain on the plain. There is an eternal winter at the summit of these mountains, and an almost
perpetual summer at their feet.

In accordance with this great productiveness, I found the hills of the Vaudois exceedingly
populous. They are alive with men, at least as compared with the solitude which our Scottish
Highlands present. I had brought thither my notions of a valley taken from the narrow winding
and infertile straths of Scotland, capable of feeding only a few scores of inhabitants. Here
I found that a valley might be a country, and contain almost a nation in its bosom.

But, not to dwell on other peculiarities, I would remark, that such a dwelling as this--continually
presenting the grandest objects--must have exerted a marked influence upon the character of
the inhabitants. It was fitted to engender intrepidity of mind, a love of freedom, and an elevation
of thought. It has been remarked that the inhabitants of mountainous regions are less prone
than others to the worship of images. On the plain all is monotony. Summer and winter, the
same landmarks, the same sky, the same sounds, surround the man. But around the dweller in
the mountains,--and especially such mountains as these,--all is variety and grandeur. Now the
Alps are seen with their sunlight summits and their shadowless sides; anon they veil their
mighty forms in clouds and tempests. The living machinery of the mist, too, is continually
varying the landscape, now engulphing valleys, now blotting out crags and mountain peaks, and
suspending before the eye a cold and cheerless curtain of vapour; anon the curtain rises, the
mist rolls away, and green valley and tall mountain flash back again upon you, thrilling and
delighting you anew. What variety and melody of sounds, too, exist among the hills! The music
of the streams, the voices of the peasants, the herdsman's song, the lowing of the cattle,
the hum of the villages. The winds, with mighty organ-swell, now sweep through their mountain
gorges; and now the thunder utters his awful voice, making the Alps to tremble and their pines
to bow.

Such was the land of the Vaudois; the predestined abode of God's Church during the long and
gloomy period of Anti-christ's reign. It was the ark in which the one elect family of Christendom
was to be preserved during the flood of error that was to come upon the earth. And I have been
the more minute in the description of its general structure and arrangements, because all had
reference to the high moral end it was appointed to serve in the economy of Providence.

When of old a flood of waters was to be sent on the world, Noah was commanded to build an ark
of gopher wood for the saving of his house. God gave him special instructions regarding its
length, its breadth, its height: he was told where to place its door and window, how to arrange
its storeys and rooms, and specially to gather "of all food that is eaten," that it might be
for food for him and those with him. When all had been done according to the Divine instructions,
God shut in Noah, and the flood came.

So was it once more. A flood was to come upon the earth; but now God himself prepared the ark
in which the chosen family were to be saved. He laid its foundations in the depths, and built
up its wall of rock to the sky. A door also made He for the ark, with lower, second, and third
storeys. It was beautiful as strong. Corn, wine, and oil were laid up in store within it. All
being ready, God said to his persecuted ones in the early Church, "Come, thou and all thy house,
into the ark." He gave them the Bible to be a light to them during the darkness, and shut them
in. The flood came. Century after century the waters of Papal superstition continued to prevail
upon the earth. At length all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered,
and all flesh died, save the little company in the Vaudois ark.

CHAPTER V.

STATE AND PROSPECTS OF THE VAUDOIS CHURCH.

     Dawn of the Reformation--Waldensian Territory a Portion of
     Italy--Two-fold Mission of Italy--Origin of the Vaudois--Evidence
     of Romanist Historians--Evidence of their own Historians--Evidence
     arising from the Noble Leyçon from their Geographical
     Position--Grandeur of the Vaudois Annals--Their Martyr Age--Their
     Missionary Efforts--Present
     Condition--Population--Churches--Schools--Stipends--Students--Social
     and Moral Superiority--Political and Social Disabilities--The Year
     1848 their Exodus--Their Mission--A Sabbath in the Vaudois
     Sanctuary--Anecdote--Lesson Taught by their History.

How often during the long night must the Vaudois have looked from their mountain asylum upon
a world engulphed in error, with the mingled wonder and dismay with which we may imagine the
antediluvian fathers gazing from the window of their ark upon the bosom of the shoreless flood!
What an appalling and mysterious dispensation! The fountains of the great deep had a second
time been broken up, and each successive century saw the waters rising. Would Christianity
ever re-appear? Or had the Church completed her triumphs, and finished her course? And was
time to close upon a world shrouded in darkness, with nought but this feeble beacon burning
amid the Alps? Such were the questions which must often have pressed upon the minds of the Vaudois.

Like Noah, too, they sent forth, from time to time, messengers from their ark, to go hither
and thither, and see if yet there remained anywhere, in any part of the earth, any worshippers
of the true God. They returned to their mountain hold, with the sorrowful tidings that nowhere
had they found any remnant of the true Church, and that the whole world wondered after the
beast. The Vaudois, however, had power given them to maintain their testimony. In the midst
of universal apostacy, and in the face of the most terrible persecutions, they bore witness
against Rome. And ever as that Church added another error to her creed, the Vaudois added another
article to their testimony; and in this way Romish idolatry and gospel truth were developed
by equal stages, and an adequate testimony was maintained all through that gloomy period. The
stars of the ecclesiastical firmament fell unto the earth, like the untimely figs of the fig-tree;
but the lamp of the Alps went not out. The Vaudois, not unconscious of their sacred office,
watched their heaven-kindled beacon with the vigilance of men inspired by the hope that it
would yet attract the eyes of the world. At length--thrice welcome sight!--the watch-fires
of the German reformers, kindled at their own, began to streak the horizon. They knew that
the hour of darkness had passed, and that the time was near when the Church would leave her
asylum, and go forth to sow the fields of the world with the immortal seed of truth.

We must be permitted to remark here, that the fact that the Waldensian territory is really
a part of Italy, and that the Vaudois, or Valdesi, or People of the Valleys (for all three
signify the same thing), are strictly an Italian people, invests ITALY with a new and interesting
light. In all ages, Pagan as well as Christian, Italy has been the seat of a twofold influence,--the
one destructive, the other regenerative. In classic times, Italy sent forth armies to subjugate
the world, and letters to enlighten it. Since the Christian era, her mission has been of the
same mixed character. She has been at once the seat of idolatry and the asylum of Christianity.
Her idolatry is of a grosser and more perfected type than was the worship of Baal of old; and
her Christianity possesses a more spiritual character, and a more powerfully operative genius,
than did the institute of Moses. We ought, then, to think of Italy as the land of the martyr
as well as of the persecutor,--as not only the land whence our Popery has come, which has cost
us so many martyrs of whom we are proud, and has caused the loss of so many souls which we
mourn,--but also as the fountain of that blessed light which broke mildly on the world in the
preaching of John Huss, and more powerfully, a century afterwards, in the reformation of the
sixteenth century. Though there was no audible voice, and no visible miracle, the Waldenses
were as really chosen to be the witnesses of God during the long night of papal idolatry, as
were the Jews to be his witnesses during the night of pagan idolatry. They are sprung, according
to the more credible historical accounts, from the unfallen Church of Rome; they are the direct
lineal descendants of the primitive Christians of Italy; they never bowed the knee to the modern
Baal; their mountain sanctuary has remained unpolluted by idolatrous rites; and if they were
called to affix to their testimony the seal of a cruel martyrdom, they did not fall till they
had scattered over the various countries of Europe the seed of a future harvest. Their death
was a martyrdom endured in behalf of Christendom; and scarcely was it accomplished till they
were raised to life again, in the appearance of numerous churches both north and south of the
Alps. Why is it that all persons and systems in this world of ours must die in order to enter
into life? We enter into spiritual life by the death of our old nature; we enter into eternal
life by the death of the body; and Christianity, too, that she might enter into the immortality
promised her on earth, had to die.

The first question touching this extraordinary people respects their origin. When did they
come into being, and of what stock are they sprung? This question forces itself with singular
power upon the mind of the traveller, who, after traversing cities and countries covered with
darkness palpable as that of Egypt of old, and seeing nought around him but image-worship,
lights unexpectedly, in the midst of these mountains, upon a little community, enjoying the
knowledge of the true God, and worshipping Him after the scriptural and spiritual manner of
prophets and apostles of old. He naturally seeks for an explanation of a fact so extraordinary.
Who kindled that solitary lamp? Their enemies have striven to represent them as dissenters
from Rome of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries; and it is a common error even among ourselves
to speak of them as the followers of Peter Waldo, the pious merchant of Lyons, and to date
their rise from the year 1160. We cannot here go into the controversy; suffice it to say, that
historical documents exist which show that both the Albigenses and the Waldenses were known
long before Peter Waldo was heard of. Their own traditions and ancient manuscripts speak of
them as having maintained the same doctrine "from time immemorial, in continued descent from
father to son, even from the times of the apostles." The Nobla Leyçon,--the Confession of Faith
of the Vaudois Church, of the date of 1100,--claims on their behalf the same ancient origin;
Ecbert, a writer who flourished in 1160--the year of Peter Waldo--speaks of them as "perverters,"
who had existed during many ages; and Reinerus, the inquisitor, who lived a century afterwards,
calls them the most dangerous of all sects, because the most ancient; "for some say," adds
he, "that it has continued to flourish since the time of Sylvester; others, from the time of
the apostles." This last is a singular corroboration of the authenticity of the Nobla Leyçon,
which refers to the corruptions which began under Sylvester as the cause of their separation
from the communion of the Church of Rome. Rorenco, the grand prior of St Roch, who was commissioned
to make enquiries concerning them, after hinting that possibly they were detached from the
Church by Claude, the good Bishop of Turin, in the eighth century, says "that they were not
a new sect in the ninth and tenth centuries." Campian the Jesuit says of them, that they were
reputed to be "more ancient than the Roman Church." Nor is it without great weight, as the
historian Leger observes, that not one of the Dukes of Savoy or their ministers ever offered
the slightest contradiction to the oft-reiterated assertions of the Vaudois, when petitioning
for liberty of conscience, "We are descendants," said they, "of those who, from father to son,
have preserved entire the apostolical faith in the valleys which we now occupy."[1] We have
no doubt that, were the ecclesiastical archives of Lombardy, especially those of Turin and
Milan, carefully searched, documents would be found which would place beyond all doubt what
the scattered proofs we have referred to render all but a certainty.

The historical evidence for the antiquity of the Vaudois Church is greatly strengthened by
a consideration of the geographical position of "the Valleys." They lie on what anciently was
the great high-road between Italy and France. There existed a frequent intercourse betwixt
the Churches of the two countries; pastors and private members were continually going and returning;
and what so likely to follow this intercourse as the evangelization of these valleys? There
is a tradition extant, that the Apostle Paul visited them, in his journey from Rome to Spain.
Be this as it may, one can scarce doubt that the feet of Irenæus, and of other early fathers,
trod the territory of the Vaudois, and preached the gospel by the waters of the Pelice, and
under the rocks and chestnut trees of Bobbio. Indeed, we can scarce err in fixing the first
rise of the Vaudois Churches at even an earlier period,--that of apostolic times. So soon as
the Church began to be wasted by persecution, the remote corners of Italy were sought as an
asylum; and from the days of Nero the primitive Christians may have begun to gather round those
mountains to which the ark of God was ultimately removed, and amid which it so long dwelt.

   "I go up to the ancient hills,
     Where chains may never be;
   Where leap in joy the torrent rills;
 Where man may worship God alone, and free.

   There shall an altar and a camp
     Impregnably arise;
   There shall be lit a quenchless lamp,
 To shine unwavering through the open skies.

   And song shall 'midst the rocks be heard,
     And fearless prayer ascend;
   While, thrilling to God's holy Word,
 The mountain-pines in adoration bend.

   And there the burning heart no more
     Its deep thought shall suppress;
   But the long-buried truth shall pour
 Free currents thence, amidst the wilderness."

How could a small body of peasants among the mountains have discovered the errors of Rome,
and have thrown off her yoke, at a time when the whole of Europe received the one and bowed
to the other? This could not have happened in the natural order of things. Above all, if they
did not arise till the twelfth or thirteenth century, how came they to frame so elaborate and
full a testimony as the Noble Lesson against Rome? A Church that has a creed must have a history.
Nor was it in a year, or even in a single age, that they could have compiled such a creed.
It could acquire form and substance only in the course of centuries,--the Vaudois adding article
to article, as Rome added error to error. We can have no reasonable doubt, then, that in the
Vaudois community we have a relic of the primitive Church. Compared with them, the house of
Savoy, which ruled so long and rigorously over them, is but of yesterday. They are more ancient
than the Roman Church itself. They have come down to us from the world before the papal flood,
bearing in their heaven-built and heaven-guarded ark the sacred oracles; and now they stand
before us as a witness to the historic truth of Christianity, and a living copy, in doctrine,
in government, and in manners, of the Church of the Apostles.

Fain would we tell at length the heroic story of the Vaudois. We use no exaggerated speech,--no
rhetorical flourish,--but speak advisedly, when we say, that their history, take it all in
all, is the brightest, the purest, the most heroic, in the annals of the world. Their martyr-age
lasted five centuries; and we know of nothing, whether we regard the sacredness of the cause,
or the undaunted valour, the pure patriotism, and the lofty faith, in which the Vaudois maintained
it, that can be compared with their glorious struggle. This is an age of hero-worship. Let
us go to the mountains of the Waldenses: there we will find heroes "unsung by poet, by senators
unpraised," yet of such gigantic stature, that the proudest champions of ancient Rome are dwarfed
in their presence. It was no transient flash of patriotism and valour that broke forth on the
soil of the Vaudois: that country saw sixteen generations of heroes, and five centuries of
heroic deeds. Men came from pruning their vines or tending their flocks, to do feats of arms
which Greece never equalled, and which throw into the shade the proudest exploits of Rome.
The Jews maintained the worship of the true God in their country for many ages, and often gained
glorious victories; but the Jews were a nation; they possessed an ample territory, rich in
resources; they were trained to war, moreover, and marshalled and led on by skilful and courageous
chiefs. But the Waldenses were a primitive and simple people; they had neither king nor leader;
their only sovereign was Jehovah; their only guides were their Barbes. The struggle under the
Maccabees was a noble one; but it attained not the grandeur of that of the Vaudois. It was
short in comparison; nor do its single exploits, brave as they were, rise to the same surpassing
pitch of heroism. When read after the story of the Vaudois, the annals of Greece and Rome even,
fruitful though they be in deeds of heroism, appear cold and tame. In short, we know of no
other instance in the world in which a great and sacred object has been prosecuted from father
to son for such a length of time, with a patriotism so pure, a courage so unshrinking, a devotion
so entire, and amidst such a multitude of sacrifices, sufferings, and woes, as in the case
of the Vaudois. The incentives to courage which have stimulated others to brave death were
wanting in their case. If they triumphed, they had no admiring circus to welcome them with
shouts, and crown them with laurel; and if they fell, they knew that there awaited their ashes
no marble tomb, and that no lay of poet would ever embalm their memory. They looked to a greater
Judge for their reward. This was the source of that patriotism, the purest the world has ever
seen, and of that valour, the noblest of which the annals of mankind make mention.

Innocent III., who hid under a sanctimonious guise the boundless ambition and quenchless malignity
of Lucifer, was the first to blow the trumpet of extermination against the poor Vaudois. And
from the middle of the thirteenth to the end of the seventeenth century they suffered not fewer
than thirty persecutions. During that long period they could not calculate upon a single year's
immunity from invasion and slaughter. From the days of Innocent their history becomes one long
harrowing tale of papal plots, interdicts, excommunications, of royal proscriptions and perfidies,
of attack, of plunder, of rapine, of massacre, and of death in every conceivable and horrible
way,--by the sword, by fire, and by unutterable tortures and torments. The Waldenses had no
alternative but to submit to these, or deny their Saviour. Yet, driven to arms,--ever their
last resource,--they waxed valiant in fight, and put to flight the armies of the aliens. They
taught their enemies that the battle was not to the strong. When the cloud gathered round their
hills, they removed their wives and little ones to some rock-girt valley, to the caverns of
which they had taken the precaution of removing their corn and oil, and even their baking ovens;
and there, though perhaps they did not muster more than a thousand fighting men in all, they
waited, with calm confidence in God, the onset of their foes. In these encounters, sustained
by Heaven, they performed prodigies of valour. The combined armies of France and Piedmont recoiled
from their shock. Their invaders were almost invariably overthrown, sometimes even annihilated;
and their sovereigns, the Dukes of Savoy, on whose memory there rests the indelible blot of
having pursued this loyal, industrious, and virtuous people with ceaseless and incredible injustice,
cruelty, treachery, and perfidy, finding that they could not subdue them, were glad to offer
them terms of peace, and grant them new guarantees of the quiet possession of their ancient
territory. Thus an invisible omnipotent arm was ever extended over the Vaudois and their land,
delivering them miraculously in times of danger, and preserving them as a peculiar people,
that by their instrumentality Jehovah might accomplish his designs of mercy towards the world.

Nor were the Waldenses content simply to maintain their faith. Even when fighting for existence,
they recognised their obligations as a missionary Church, and strove to diffuse over the surrounding
countries the light that burned amid their own mountains. Who has not heard of the Pra de la
Torre, in the valley of Angrona? This is a beautiful little meadow, encircled with a barrier
of tremendous mountains, and watered by a torrent, which, flowing from an Alpine summit, La
Sella Vecchia, descends with echoing noise through the dark gorges and shining dells of the
deep and romantic valley. This was the inner sanctuary of the Vaudois. Here their Barbes sat;
here was their school of the prophets; and from this spot were sent forth their pastors and
missionaries into France, Germany, and Britain, as well as into their own valleys. It was a
native and missionary of these valleys, Gualtero Lollard, which gave his name, in the fourteenth
century, to the Lollards of England, whose doctrines were the day-spring of the Reformation
in our own country. The zeal of the Vaudois was seen in the devices they fell upon to distribute
the Bible, and along with that a knowledge of the gospel. Colporteurs travelled as pedlars;
and, after displaying their laces and jewels, they drew forth, and offered for sale, or as
a gift, a gem of yet greater value. In this way the Word of God found entrance alike into cottage
and baronial castle.

But, turning from this inviting theme, to which volumes only could do justice, let us lift
the curtain, and look at this simple, heroic people, as they appear now, after the "great tribulation"
of five centuries. The Protestant population of "the Valleys" is 22,000 and upwards. They have
fifteen churches and parishes, and twenty-five persons in all engaged in the work of the ministry.
This was their state in 1851. Since then, two other parishes, Pignerolo and Turin, have been
added. To each church a school is attached, with numerous sub-schools. It is to the honour
of the Vaudois that they led the way in that system of general education which is extending
itself, more or less, in every State in Europe. Repeated edicts of the Waldensian Table rendered
it imperative upon the community to provide means of religious and elementary education for
all the children capable of receiving it. They have a college at La Tour, fifteen primary schools,
and upwards of one hundred secondary schools. The whole Waldensian youth is at school during
winter. In their congregations, the sacrament of the Supper is dispensed four times in the
year; and it is rare that a young person fails to become a communicant after arriving at the
proper age. There are two preaching days at every dispensation of the ordinance; and the collections
made on these occasions are devoted to the poor. There was at that time no plate at the church-door
on ordinary Sabbaths; and no contributions were made by the people for the support of the gospel.
I presume this error is rectified now, however; for it was then in contemplation to adopt the
plan in use in Scotland, and elsewhere, of a penny-a-week subscription. The stipends of the
Waldensian pastors are paid from funds contributed by England and Holland. Each receives fifteen
hundred francs yearly,--about sixty-two pounds sterling. Their incomes are supplemented by
a small glebe, which is attached to each living. The contribution for the schools and the hospitals
is compulsory. In their college, in 1851, there were seventy-five students. Some were studying
for the medical profession, some for commercial pursuits; others were qualifying as teachers,
and some few as pastors.

The Waldenses inhabit their hills, much as the Jews did their Palestine. Each man lives on
his ancestral acres; and his farm or vineyard is not too large to be cultivated by himself
and his family. There are amongst them no titles of honour, and scarce any distinctions of
rank and circumstances. They are a nation of vine-dressers, husbandmen, and shepherds. In their
habits they are frugal and simple. Their peaceful deportment and industrial virtues have won
the admiration, and extorted the acknowledgments, even of their enemies. In the cultivation
of their fields, in the breed and management of their cattle and their flocks, in the arrangements
of their dairies, and in the cleanliness of their cabins, they far excel the rest of the Piedmontese.
To enlarge their territory, they have had recourse to the same device with the Jews of old;
and the Vaudois mountains, like the Judæan hills, exhibit in many places terraces, rising in
a continuous series up the hill-side, sown with grain or planted with the vine. Every span
of earth is cultivated.

The Vaudois excel the rest of the Piedmontese in point of morals, just as much as they excel
them in point of intelligence and industry. All who have visited their abodes, and studied
their character, admit, that they are incomparably the most moral community on the Continent
of Europe. When a Vaudois commits a crime,--a rare occurrence,--the whole valleys mourn, and
every family feels as if a cloud rested on its own reputation. No one can pass a day among
them without remarking the greater decorum of their deportment, and the greater kindliness
and civility of their address. I do not mean to say that, either in respect of intelligence
or piety, they are equal to the natives of our own highly favoured Scotland. They are surrounded
on all sides by degradation and darkness; they have just escaped from ages of proscription;
books are few among their mountains; and they have suffered, too, from the inroads of French
infidelity; an age of Moderatism has passed over them, as over ourselves; and from these evils
they have not yet completely recovered. Still, with all these drawbacks, they are immensely
superior to any other community abroad; and, in simplicity of heart, and purity of life, present
us with no feeble transcript of the primitive Church, of which they are the representatives.

The lotus-flower is said to lift its head above the muddy current of the Nile at the precise
moment of sunrise. It was indicative, perhaps, of the dawning of a new day upon the Vaudois
and Italy, that that Church experienced lately a revival. That revival was almost immediately
followed by the boon of political and social emancipation, and by a new and enlarged sphere
of spiritual action. The year 1848 opened the doors of their ancient prison, and called them
to go forth and evangelize. Formerly, all attempts to extend themselves beyond their mountain
abode, and to mingle with the nations around them, were uniformly followed by disaster. The
time was not come; and the integrity of their faith, and the accomplishment of their high mission,
would have been perilled by their leaving their asylum. But when the revolutions of 1848 threw
the north of Italy open to their action, then came forth the decree of Charles Albert, declaring
the Vaudois free subjects of Piedmont, and the Church of "the Valleys" a free Church. The disabilities
under which the Waldenses groaned up till this very recent period may well astonish us, now
that we look back to them. Up till 1848 the Waldensian was proscribed, in both his civil and
religious rights, beyond the limits of his own valleys. Out of his special territory he dared
not possess a foot-breadth of land; and, if obliged to sell his paternal fields to a stranger,
he could not buy them back again. He was shut out from the colleges of his country; he could
not practise as a member of any of the learned professions; every avenue to distinction and
wealth was closed against him,--his only crime being his religion. He could not marry but with
one of his own people; he could not build a sanctuary,--he could not even bury his dead,--beyond
the limits of "the Valleys." The children were often taken away and trained in the idolatrous
rites of Romanism, and the unhappy parents had no remedy. They were slandered, too, to their
sovereigns, as men marked by hideous deformities; and great was the surprise of Charles Albert
to find, on a visit he paid to the Valleys but a little before granting their emancipation,
that the Vaudois were not the monsters he had been taught to believe. I have been told, that
to this very day they carry their dead to the grave in open coffins, to give ocular demonstration
of the falsehood of the calumnies propagated by their enemies, that the corpses of these heretics
are sometimes consumed by invisible flames, or carried off by evil spirits before burial. But
now all these disabilities are at an end. The year 1848 swept them all away; and a bulwark
of constitutional feeling and action has since grown up around the Vaudois, cutting off the
prospect of these disabilities ever being re-imposed, unless, indeed, Austria and France should
combine to put down the Piedmontese constitution. But hitherto that nation which gave religious
liberty to the people of God has had its own political liberties wonderfully protected.

The year 1848, then, was the "exodus" of the Vaudois. And why were they brought out of their
house of bondage? Surely they have yet a work to do. Their great mission, which was to bear
witness for the truth during the domination of Antichrist, they nobly fulfilled; but are they
to have no part in diffusing over the plains of Italy that light which they so long and so
carefully preserved? This undoubtedly is their mission. All the leadings of Providence declare
it to be so. They were visited with revival, brought from their Alpine asylum, had full liberty
of action given them, all at the moment that Italy had begun to be open to the gospel. They
are the native evangelists of their own country: let them remember their own and their fathers'
sufferings, and avenge themselves on Rome, not with the sword, but the Bible. And let British
Christians aid them in this great work, assured that the door to Rome and Italy lies through
the valleys of the Vaudois.

The last day of my sojourn in the Waldensian territory was Sabbath the 19th of October, and
I worshipped with that people,--rare enjoyment!--in their sanctuary. The day broke amid high
winds and torrents of rain. The clouds now veiled, now revealed, the hill-side, with its variously
tinted foliage, and its white torrents dashing headlong to the vale. The mighty form of the
Castelluzzo was seen struggling through mists; and high above the winds rose the roar of the
swollen waters. At a quarter before ten, the church-bell, heard through the pauses of the storm,
came pealing from the heights. The old church of La Tour,--the new and more elegant fabric
which stands in the village was not then opened,--is sweetly placed at the base of the Castelluzzo,
embowered amid vines and fragrant foliage, and commanding a noble view of the plains of Piedmont.
Even amidst the driving mists and showers its beauty could not fail to be felt. The scenery was--

 "A blending of all beauties, streams and dells,
 Fruits, foliage, crag, wood, corn-field, mountain, vine."

General Beckwith did me the honour to call at my hotel, and I walked with him to the church.
Outside the building--for worship had not commenced--were numerous little conversational parties;
and around it lay the Vaudois dead, sleeping beneath the shadow of their giant rock, and free,
at last and for ever, from the oppressor. They had found another "exodus" from their house
of bondage than that which King Charles Albert had granted their living descendants. We entered,
and found the schoolmaster reading the liturgy. This service consists of two chapters of the
Bible, with at times the reflections of Ostervald annexed; during it the congregation came
dropping in,--the husbandmen and herdsmen of the Val Lucerna,--and took their seats. In a little
the elders entered in a body, and seated themselves round a table in front of the pulpit. Next
came the pastor, habited, like our Scotch ministers, in gown and bands, when the regent instantly
ceased. The pastor began the public worship by giving out a psalm. He next offered a prayer,
read the ten commandments, and then preached. The sermon was an half-hour's length precisely,
and was recited, not read; for I was told the Waldenses have a strong dislike to read discourses.
The minister of La Tour is an old man, and was trained under an order of things unfavourable
to that higher standard of pulpit qualification, and that fuller manifestation of evangelical
and spiritual feeling, which, I am glad to say, characterize all the younger Waldensian pastors.
The people listened with great attention to his scriptural discourse; but I was sorry to observe
that there were few Bibles among them,--a circumstance that may be explained perhaps with reference
to the state of the weather, and the long distance which many of them have to travel. The storm
had the effect at least of thinning the audience, and bringing it down from about 800, its
usual number, to 500 or so. The church was an oblong building, with the pulpit on one of the
side walls, and a deep gallery, resting on thick, heavy pillars, on the other. The men and
women occupied separate places. With this exception, I saw nothing to remind me that I was
out of Scotland. One may find exactly such another congregation in almost any part of our Scottish
Highlands, with this difference, that the complexions of the Vaudois are darker than that of
our Highlanders. They have the same hardy, weather-beaten features, and the same robust frames.
I saw many venerable and some noble heads among them,--men who would face the storms of the
Alps for the lost wanderer of the flock, and the edicts and soldiers of Rome for their home-steads
and altars. There they sat, worshipping their fathers' God, amid their fathers' mountains,--victorious
over twelve centuries of proscription and persecution, and holding their sanctuaries and their
hills in defiance of Europe. In the evening Professor Malan preached in the schoolhouse of
Margarita, a small village on the ascent from La Tour to Castelluzzo. He discoursed with great
unction, and the crowded audience hung upon his lips.

On my way back to my hotel, Professor Malan narrated to me a touching anecdote, which I must
here put down. Monsignor Mazzarella was a judge in one of the High Courts of Sicily; but when
the atrocities of the re-action began, he refused to be a tool of the Government, and resigned
his office. He came to Turin, like numerous other political refugees; and in one of the re-unions
of the workmen, he learned the doctrine of "justification by faith." Soon thereafter, that
is, in the summer of 1851, he and a few companions paid a visit to the Vaudois Church. A public
meeting, over which Professor Malan presided, was held at La Tour, to welcome M. Mazzarella
and his friends. Professor Malan expressed his delight at seeing them in "the Valleys;" welcomed
them as the first fruits of Italy; and, in the name of the Vaudois Church, gave them the right
hand of fellowship. The reply of the converted exiles was truly affecting, and moved the assembly
to tears. Rising up, Mazzarella said, "We are the children of your persecutors; but the sons
have other hearts than the fathers. We have renounced the religion of the oppressor, and embraced
that of the Vaudois, whom our ancestors so long persecuted. You have been the people of God,
the confessors of the truth; and here before you this night I confess the sin of my fathers
in putting your fathers to death." Mazzarella at this day is an evangelist in Genoa. In his
speech we hear the first utterance of repentant Christendom.

I had now been well nigh a week in "the Valleys." A dream long and fondly cherished had become
a reality; and next morning I started for Turin.

The eventful history of the Vaudois teaches one lesson at least, which we Protestants would
do well to ponder at this hour. The measures of the Church of Rome are quick, summary, and
on a scale commensurate with the danger. Her motto is instant, unpitying, unsparing, utter
extermination of all that oppose her. Twice over has the human mind revolted against her authority,
and twice over has she met that revolt, not with argument, but with the sword. In the eleventh
and twelfth centuries the Waldensian movement had grown to such a head, that the dominion of
Rome was in imminent jeopardy. Had she delayed, the Reformation would have been anticipated
by some centuries. She did not delay. She cried for help to the warriors of France and Savoy;
and, by the help of some hundred thousand soldiers, she put down the Waldensian movement as
an aggressive power. The next revolt against her authority was the Reformation. Here again
she boldly confronted the danger. She grasped her old weapon; and, by the help of the sword
and the Jesuits, she put down that movement in one half the countries of Europe, and greatly
weakened it in the other half.

We are now witnessing a third revolt against her authority; and it remains to be seen how the
Church of Rome will deal with it. Will she now adopt half measures? Will she now falter and
draw back,--she that never before feared enemy or spared foe? Will that Church that quenched
in blood the Protestantism of the Waldenses,--that put down the Reformation in France by one
terrible blow,--that by the help of dungeons and racks banished the light from Italy and Spain,--will
that Church, we ask, spare the Protestantism of Britain? What folly and infatuation to think
that she will! What matters it that, in rooting out British Protestantism, she should shed
oceans of blood, and sound the death-knell of a whole nation? These are but dust in the balance
to her: her dominion must be maintained at all costs. Her motto still is,--let Rome triumph
though the heavens should fall. But she tells us that she repents. Repents, does she? She has
grown pitiful, and tender hearted, has she? She fears blood now, and starts at the cry of murdered
nations! Ah! she repents; but it is her clemency, not her crimes, of which she repents. She
repents that she did not make one wide St Bartholomew of Europe; that when she planted the
stake for Huss, and Cranmer, and Wishart, she did not plant a million of stakes. Then the Reformation
would not have been. Yes, she repents, deeply, bitterly repents, her fatal blunder. But it
will not be her fault, the Univers assures us, if she have to repent such a blunder a second
time. Let us hear the priests speaking through one of the country papers in France:--"The wars
of religion were not deplorable catastrophes; these great butcheries renewed the life of France.
The incense cast away the smell of the corpses, and psalms covered the noise of angry shouts.
Holy water washed away all the bloody stains. With the Inquisition, the most beautiful weather
succeeded to storms, and the fires that burned the heretics shone like supernatural torches."
The hand that wrote these lines would more gladly light the faggot. Let only the present regime
in France last a few years, and the priests will again rejoice in seeing the colour of heretic
blood. There cannot and will not be peace in the world, they say, till for every Protestant
a gibbet or stake has been erected, and not one man left to carry tidings to posterity that
ever there was such a thing as Protestantism on the earth.

CHAPTER VI.

FROM TURIN TO NOVARA.

     At Turin begins Pilgrimage to Rome--Description of
     Diligence--Dora Susina--Plain of Lombardy--Its Boundaries--Nursed
     by the Alps--Lessons taught thereby--The Colina--Inauspicious
     Sunset--The Road to Milan--The Po--Its Source--Tributaries and
     Function--Evening--Home remembered in a Foreign Land--Inference
     thence regarding Futurity--Thunderstorm among the
     Alps--Thunderstorm on the Plain of Lombardy--Grandeur of the
     Lightning--Enter Novara at Day-break.

I had two objects in view in crossing the Alps. The first was to visit the land of the Vaudois;
the second was to see Rome. The first of these objects I had accomplished in part; the second
remained to be undertaken.

This plain of Piedmont was the richest my foot had ever trodden; but often did I turn my eyes
wistfully towards the Apennines, which, like a veil, shut out the Italy of the Romans and the
City of the Seven Hills. At Turin, which the Po so sweetly waters, and over which the snow-clad
hills of the Swiss fling their noble shadows, properly begins my journey to Rome.

I started in the diligence for Milan about four of the afternoon of the 21st October. Did you
ever, reader, set foot in a diligence? It is a castle mounted on wheels, rising storey upon
storey to a fearful height. It is roomy withal, and has apartments enough within its leathern
walls for well-nigh the population of a village. There is the glass coupé in front, the drawing-room
of the house. There is the interieur, which you may compare, if you please, to the dining-room,
only there you do not dine; and there is the rotundo, a sort of cabin attached, the limbo of
the establishment, in which you may find half-a-dozen unhappy wights for days and nights doing
penance. Then, in the very fore-front of this moving castle--hung in mid air, as it were--there
is the banquette. It is the roomiest of all, and has, moreover, spacious untenanted spaces
behind, where you may stow away your luggage; and, being the loftiest compartment, it commands
the country you may happen to traverse. On this account the banquette was the place I almost
always selected, unless when so unfortunate as to find it already bespoke. Half-hours are of
no value in the south of the Alps, and a very liberal allowance of this commodity was made
us before starting. At last, however, the formidable process of loading was completed, and
away we went, rumbling heavily over the streets of Turin to the crack of the postilion's whip
and the music of the horses' bells.

On emerging from the buildings of the city, we crossed the fine bridge over the Dora Susina,
an Alpine stream, which attains almost the dignity of a river, and which, swollen by recent
rains, was hurrying on to join the Po. Our course now lay almost due east, over the great plain
of Lombardy; and there are few rides in any part of the world which can bring the traveller
such a succession of varied, rich, and sublime sights. The plain itself, level as the floor
of one's library, and wearing a rich carpeting, green at all seasons, of fruits and verdure,
ran out till it touched the horizon. On the north rose the Alps, a magnificent wall, of stature
so stupendous, that they seemed to prop the heavens. On the south were the gentler Apennines.
Between these two magnificent barriers, this goodly plain--of which I know not if the earth
contains its equal--stretches away till it terminates in the blue line of the Adriatic. On
its ample bosom is many a celebrated spot, many an interesting object. It has several princely
cities, in which art is cultivated, and trade flourishes to all the extent which Austrian fetters
permit. Its old historic towns are numerous. The hoar of eld is upon them. It has rags of castles
and fortresses which literally have braved for a thousand years the battle and the breeze.
It has spots where empires have been lost and won, and where the dead of the tented field sleep
their dreamless sleep. It has fine old cathedrals, with their antique carvings, their recumbent
statues of old-world bishops, and their Scripture pieces by various masters, sorely faded;
and here and there, above the rich foliage of its various woods, like the tall mast of a ship
at sea, is seen the handsome and lofty campanile, so peculiar to the architecture of Lombardy.

The great Alps look down with most benignant aspect upon this plain. They seem quite proud
of it, and nurse it with the care and tenderness of a parent. Noble rivers not a few--the Ticino,
the Adige, and streams and torrents without number--do they send down, to keep its beauty ever
fresh. These streams cross and re-cross its green bosom in all directions, forming by their
interlacings a curious network of silvery lines, like the bright threads in the mine, or the
white veins in the porphyritic slab. Observe this little flower, with its bright petals, growing
by the wayside. That humble flower owes its beauty to yonder chain. From the frozen summits
of the Alps come the waters at which it daily drinks. And when the dog-days come, and a fiery
sun looks down upon the plain from a sky that is cloudless for months together, and when every
leaf droops, and even the tall poplar seems to bow itself beneath the intolerable heat, the
mountains, pitying the panting plain, send down their cool breezes to revive it. Would that
from the lofty pinnacles of rank and talent there descended upon the lower levels of society
an influence equally wholesome and beneficent! Were there more streams from the mountain, there
would be more fruits upon the plain. The world would not be the scorched desert which it is,
in which the vipers of envy and discontent hiss and sting; but a fragrant garden, full of the
fruits of social order and of moral principle. Truly, man might learn many a useful lesson
from the earth on which he treads: the great, to dispense freely out of their abundance,--for
by dispensing they but multiply their blessings, as Mont Blanc, by sending down its streams
to enrich the plain, feeds those snows which are its glory and crown,--and the humble, the
lesson of a thankful reciprocation. This plain does not drink in the waters of the Alps, and
sullenly refuse to own its obligations. Like a duteous child, it brings its yearly offering
to the foot of Mont Blanc,--fields of golden wheat, countless vines with their blood-red clusters,
fruits of every name, and flowers of every hue;--such is the noble tribute which this plain,
year by year, lays at the feet of its august parent. There is but one drawback to its prosperity.
Two sombre shadows fall gloomily athwart its surface. These are Austria and Rome.

The plain of Lombardy is so broad, and the road to Milan by Novara is so much on a level with
its general surface, that the eye catches the distant Apennines only at the more elevated points.
The screen which here, and for miles after leaving Turin, shuts out the view of the Apennines,
is the Colina. The Colina is a range of lovely hills, which rise to a height of rather more
than 1200 feet, and run eastward along the plain a few miles south of the Milan road. Soft
and rich in their covering, picturesque in their forms, and indented with numerous dells, they
look like miniature Alps set down on the plain, nearly equidistant from the great white hills
on the north and the purple peaks on the south. The sun was near his setting; and his level
rays, passing through fields of vapour,--presages of storm,--and shorn of the fiery brilliancy
which is wont at eve to set these hills on a blaze, fell softly upon the dome of the Superga,
and lighted up the white villas which stud the mountain by hundreds and hundreds throughout
its whole extent. Vividly relieved by the deep azure of the vineyards, and looking, from their
distance, no bigger than single blocks, these villas reminded one of a shower of marble, freshly
fallen, and glittering in pearly whiteness in the setting rays.

The road, which to me had an almost sacred character, being the beginning of my journey to
Rome, was a straight line,--straight as the arrow's flight,--between fields of rich meadow
land, and rows of elms and poplars, which ran on and on, till, in the far distance, they appeared
to converge to a point. It was a broad, macadamized, substantial highway, of about thirty feet
in width, having a white line of curb-stones placed eight or ten paces apart; outside of which
was an excellent pathway for foot passengers. On the left rose the Alps, calm and majestic,
clothed in the purple shadows of evening.

I have mentioned the Po as flowing past Turin. This stream is doubtless the relic of that mighty
flood which covered, at some former period, the vast space between the Alps and the Apennines,
from the Graian and Cottian chains on the west, to the shores of the Adriatic on the east.
As the waters drained off, this central channel alone was left, to receive and convey to the
sea the innumerable torrents which are formed by the springs and snows of the mountains. The
noble river thus formed is called the Po,--the pride of Italy, and the king of its streams.
The Greeks, who clothed it with fable, and drowned Phaeton in its stream, called it Eridanus.
Its Roman appellation was Padus, which in course of time resolved itself into its present name,
the Po. Unlike the Nile, which rolls in solemn and solitary majesty through Egypt without permitting
one solitary rill to mingle with its flood, the Po welcomes every tributary, and accepts its
help in discharging its great function of giving drink to every flower, and tree, and field,
and city, in broad Lombardy. It receives, in its course through Piedmont alone, not fewer than
fifty-three torrents and rivers; and in depth and grandeur of stream it is not unworthy of
the praises which the Greek and Roman poets lavished upon it. The cradle of this noble stream
is placed in the centre of the ancient territory of the Vaudois, whose most beautiful mountain,
Monte Viso, is its nursing parent. A fountain of crystal clearness, placed half-way up this
hill, is its source. Thence it goes forth to water Piedmont and Venetian-Lombardy, and to mingle
at last with the clear wave of the Adriatic,--emblem of those living waters which were to go
forth from this same land into all quarters of Europe.

The sun had now set; and I marked that this evening no golden beams among the mountains, no
burning peaks, attended his departure. He went in silent sadness, like a friend quitting a
circle which he fears may before his return be visited with calamity. With him departed the
glory of the scene. The vine-clad Colina, erst sparkling with villas, put out its lights, and
resolved itself into a dark bank, which leaned, cloud-like, against the sky. The stupendous
white piles on the left drew a thin night vapour around them, and retired from the scene, like
some mighty spirit gathering his robe about him, and leaving the earth, which his presence
had enlightened, dark and solitary. The plain lay before us a sombre expanse, in which all
objects--towns, spires, and forests--were fast blending into one darkly-shaded and undefined
picture. Dwellers in diligences, as well as dwellers in hotels, must sleep if they can; but
the hour for "turning in" had scarce arrived, and meanwhile, I remember, my thoughts took strongly
a homeward direction.

With these, of course, I shall not trouble the reader; only I must be permitted to mention
a misconception into which I had fallen, in connection with my journey, and into which it is
possible others may fall in similar circumstances. One is apt to imagine, before starting,
that should he reach such a country as Italy, he will there feel as if home was very distant,
and the events of his former life far removed in point of time. He thinks that a journey across
the Alps has somehow a talismanic power to change him. He crosses the Alps, but finds that
he is the same man still. Home has come with him: the friendships, the joys, the sorrows, of
his past existence are as near as ever; nay, far nearer, for now he is alone with them; and
though he goes southward, and kingdoms and mountain-chains are between him and his native country,
he cannot feel that he is a foot-breadth more distant than ever. He moves about through strange
lands in a shroud of home feelings and recollections.

How wretched, thought I, the man whom guilt chases from his country! He flies to distant lands
in the hope of shaking off the remembrance of his crime. He finds that, go where he will, the
spectre dogs his steps. In Paris, in Milan, in Rome, the grizzly form starts up before him.
He must change, not his country, but his heart--himself--before he can shake off his companion.

May not the same principle be applicable, in some extent, to our passage from earth into the
world beyond? When at home in Scotland, I had thought of Italy as a distant country; but now
that I was in Italy, Scotland seemed very near--much nearer than Italy had done when in Scotland.
We who are dwellers on earth think of the state beyond as very remote; but once there, may
we not feel as if earth was in close proximity to us,--as if, in fact, the two states were
divided by but a narrow gulph? Certain it is that the passage across it will work in us no
change; and, like the stranger in a foreign country, we shall enter with an eternal shroud
of joys and sorrows, springing out of the deeds and events of our present existence.

I found that if in this region the day had its beauty, the night had its sublimity and terrors.
I had years before become familiar with the phenomena of thunder-storms among the Alps; and
one who has seen lightning only in the sombre sky of Britain can scarce imagine its intense
brilliancy in these more southern latitudes. With us it breaks with a red fiery flicker; there
it bursts upon you like the sun, and pours a flood of noonday light over earth and sky. One
evening, in particular, I shall never forget, on which I saw this phenomenon in circumstances
highly favourable to its finest effect. I had walked out from Geneva to pass a few hours with
the Tronchin family, whose mansion stands on the southern shores of the lake. It was evening;
and the deep rolling of the thunder gave us warning that a storm had come on. We stepped out
upon the lawn to enjoy the spectacle; for in the vicinity of the Alps, whose summits attract
the fluid, the lightning is seldom dangerous to life. All was dark as midnight; not even the
front of the mansion could we see. In a moment the flash came; and then it was day,--boundless,
glorious day. All nature was set before us as if under the light of a cloudless sun. The lawn,
the blue lake, the distant Alpine summits, the landscape around, with its pines, villas, and
vineyards, all leaped out of the womb of night, stood in vivid intense splendour before the
eye, and in a twinkling was again gone. This amazing transition from midnight to noonday, and
from noonday to midnight, was repeated again and again. I was now to witness the sublimities
of a thunder-storm on the plain of Lombardy.

Right before us, on the far-off horizon, gleams of light began to shoot along the sky. The
play of the electric fluid was so rapid and incessant, as to resemble rather the continuous
flow of light from its fountain, than the fitful flashes of lightning. At times these gleams
would mantle the sky with all the soft beauty of moonlight, and at others they would dart angrily
and luridly athwart the horizon. Soon the storm assumed a grander form. A ball of fire would
suddenly blaze forth, in livid, fiery brilliancy; and, remaining motionless, as it were, for
an instant, would then shoot out lateral streams or rays, coloured sometimes like the rainbow,
and quivering and fluttering like the outspread wings of eagles. One's imagination could almost
conceive of it as being a real bird, the ball answering to the body, while the flashes flung
out from it resembled the wings, which were of so vast a spread, that they touched the Apennines
on the one hand, and the Alps on the other.

The storm took yet another form, and one that increased the sublimity of the scene, by adding
a slight feeling of uneasiness to the admiration with which we had contemplated it so far.
A cloud of pitchy darkness rose in the south, and crossed the plain, shedding deepest night
in its track, and shooting its fires downward on the earth as it came onwards. It passed right
over our heads, enveloping us for the while (like some mighty archer, with quiver full of arrows)
in a shower of flaming missiles. The interval between the flashes was brief,--so very brief,
that we were scarcely sensible of any interval at all. There was not more than four seconds
between them. The light was full and strong, as if myriads and myriads of bude lights had been
kindled on the summits of the Apennines. In short, it was day while it lasted, and every object
was visible, as if made so by the light of the sun. The horses which dragged our vehicle along
the road,--the postilion with the red facings on his dress,--the meadows and mulberry woods
which bordered our path,--the road itself, stretching away and away for miles, with its rows
of tall poplars, and its white curb-stones, dotted with waggons and couriers, and a few foot-passengers,--and
the red autumnal leaves, as they fell in swirling showers in the gust,--all were visible. Indeed,
we may be said to have performed several miles of our journey under broad daylight, excepting
that these sudden revelations of the face of nature alternated with moments of profoundest
night. At length the big rain-drops came rattling to the earth; and, to protect ourselves,
we drew the thick leathern curtain of the banquette, buttoning it tight down all around. It
kept out the rain, but not the lightning. The seams and openings of the covering seemed glowing
lines of fire, as if the diligence had been literally engulphed in an ocean of living flame.
The whole heavens were in a roar. The Apennines called to the Alps; the Alps shouted to the
Apennines; and the plain between quaked and trembled at the awful voice. At length the storm
passed away to the north, and found its final goal amid the mountains, where for hours afterwards
the thunder continued to growl, and the lightnings to sport.

Order being now restored among the elements, we endeavoured to snatch an hour's sleep. It was
but a dreamy sort of slumber, which failed to bestow entire unconsciousness to external objects.
Faded towns and tall campaniles seemed to pass by in a ghost-like procession, which was interrupted
only by the arrival of the diligence at the various stages, where we had to endure long, weary
halts. So passed the night. At the first dawn we entered Novara. It lay, spread out on the
dusky plain, an irregular patch of black, with the clear, silvery crescent of a moon hanging
above it.

CHAPTER VII.

THE INTRODUCTION.

     Novara--Examination of Passports--Dawn--Monks prefer Dim Light to
     Clear--Battle of Novara, and its Results--The
     Ticino--Croats--Austrian Frontier and Dogana--Examination of Books
     and Baggage--Grandeur of the Alps from this Point--Contrast betwixt
     the Rivers and the Governments of Italy--Proof from thence of the
     Fall--Providence "from seeming Evil educing Good"--Rich but
     Monotonous Scenery of the Plain--Youth of the Alps, and Decay of
     the Lombard nations--The only Remedy--An Expelled Democrat--First
     View of Milan.

Novara, of course, like all decent towns in Lombardy and elsewhere, at four in the morning
was a-bed, and our heavy vehicle, as its harsh echoes broke roughly on the silent streets,
sounded strangely loud. We were driven right into a courtyard, to have our passports examined.
We had left Turin the evening before, with a clean bill of political health, duly certified
by three legations,--the Sardinian, the English, and the Austrian; and in so short a journey--not
to speak of the flood and fire we had passed through--it was scarce possible that we could
have contracted fresh pollution. We were examined anew, however, lest the plague-spot should
have broken out upon us. All was found right, and we were let go to a neighbouring restaurant,
where we swallowed a cup of coffee,--our only meal betwixt Turin and Milan. After a full hour's
halt, we re-mounted the diligence, and set forth.

On emerging from the streets of the city, I found the east in the glow of dawn. Still, and
pure, and calm broke the light; and under its ray the rich plain awoke into beauty, forgetful
of the fiery bolts which had smitten it, and the darkness and destruction which had so lately
passed across it. "Hail, holy light!" exclaims the bard of "Paradise." Yes, light is holy.
It is undefiled and pure, as when "God saw the light that it was good." Man has ravaged the
earth and reddened the seas; but light has escaped his contaminating touch, and is still as
God made it, unless, indeed, when man imprisons it within the stained glass of the cathedral,
and then obligingly helps its dimness by lighting a score or so of tapers. Did no monk ever
think of putting a stained window in the east, and compelling the sun to ogle the world through
spectacles? "The light is good," said He who created it, as He saw it darting its first pure
beam across creation. Not so, says the Puseyite; it is not good unless it is coloured.

I looked with interest on the plains around Novara; for there, albeit no trace of the bloody
fray remains, the army of Charles Albert in 1848 met the host of Radetzky; and there the fate
of the campaign for Italian independence was decided. The battle which was fought on these
plains led to the destruction of King Charles Albert, but not to the destruction of his kingdom
of Sardinia,--though why Radetzky did not follow up his victory by a march on Turin, is to
this hour a mystery. Nay, though it sounds a little paradoxical, it is probable that this battle,
by destroying the king, saved the kingdom. Had Charles Albert survived till the re-action set
in 1849 and 1850, there is too much reason to fear, from his antecedents, that he would have
thrown himself into the current with the rest of the Italian rulers; and so Sardinia would
have missed the path of constitutional liberty and material development which it has since,
under King Victor Emanuel, so happily pursued. Had that happened, the horizon of Italy, dark
as it is at this hour, would have been still darker, and the peninsula, from the Alps to Sicily,
would not have contained a single spot where the hunted friends of liberty could have found asylum.

We soon approached the Ticino, the boundary between Sardinia and Austrian Lombardy. The Ticino
is a majestic river, here spanned by one of the finest bridges in Italy. It contains eleven
arches; is of the granite of Mount Torfano; and, like almost all the great modern works in
Italy, was commenced by Napoleon, though finished only after his fall. Here, then, was the
gate of Austria; and seated at that gate I saw three Croats,--fit keepers of Austrian order.

I was not ignorant of the hand these men had had in the suppression of the revolution of 1848,
and of the ruthless tragedies they were said to have enacted in Milan and other cities of Lombardy;
and I rode up to them in the eager desire of scrutinizing their features, and reading there
the signs of that ferocity which had given them such wide-spread but evil renown. They sat
basking themselves on a bench in front of the Dogana, with their muskets and bayonets glittering
in the sun. They were lads of about eighteen, of decidedly low stature, of square build, and
strongly muscular. They looked in capital condition, and gave every sign that the air of Lombardy
agreed with them, and that they had had their own share at least of its corn and wine. They
wore blue caps, gray duffle greatcoats like those used by our Highlanders, light blue pantaloons
fitting closely their thick short leg, and boots which rose above the ankle, and laced in front.
The prevailing expression on their broad swarthy faces was not ferocity, but stolidity. Their
eyes were dull, and contrasted strikingly with the dark fiery glances of the children of the
land. They seemed men of appetites rather than passions; and, if guilty of cruel deeds, were
likely to be so from the dull, cold, unreflecting ferocity of the bull-dog, rather than from
the warm impulsive instincts of the nobler animals. In stature and feature they were very much
the barbarian, and were admirably fitted for being what they were,--the tools of the despot.
No wonder that the ideal Italian abominates the Croat.

The Dogana! So soon! 'Twas but a few miles on the other side of the Ticino that we passed through
this ordeal. But perhaps the river, glorious as it looks, flowing from the democratic hills
of the Swiss, may have infected us with political pravity; so here again we must undergo the
search, and that not a mere pro forma one. The diligence vomits forth, at all its mouths, trunks,
carpet-bags, and packages, encased, some in velvet, some in fir-deals, and some in brown paper.
The multifarious heap was carried into the Dogana, and its various articles unroped, unlocked,
and their contents scattered about. One might have thought that a great fair was about to begin,
or that a great Industrial Exhibition was to be opened on the banks of the Ticino. The hunt
was especially for books,--bad books, which England will perversely print, and Englishmen perversely
read. My little stock was collected, bound together with a cord, and sent in to the chief douanier,
who sat, Radamanthus-like, in an inner apartment, to judge books, papers, and persons. There
is nothing there, thought I, to which even an Austrian official can take exception. Soon I
was summoned to follow my little library. The man examined the collection volume by volume.
At last he lighted on a number of the Gazetta del Popolo,--the same which I have already mentioned
as given me by the editors in Turin. This, thought I, will prove the dead fly in my box of
ointment. The sheet was opened and examined. "Have you," said the official, "any more?" I could
reply with a clear conscience that I had not. To my surprise, the paper was returned to me.
He next took up my note-book. Now, said I to myself, this is a worse scrape than the other.
What a blockhead I am not to have put the book into my pocket; for, except in extreme cases,
the traveller's person is never searched. The man opened the thin volume, and found it inscribed
with mysterious and strange characters. It was written in short-hand. He turned over the leaves;
on every page the same unreadable signs met the eye. He held it by the top, and next by the
bottom: it was equally inscrutable either way. He shut it, and examined its exterior, but there
was nothing on the outside to afford a key to the mystic characters within. He then turned
to me for an explanation of the suspicious little book. Affecting all the unconcern I could,
I told him that it contained only a few commonplace jottings of my journey. He opened the book;
took one other leisurely survey of it; then looked at me, and back again at the book; and,
after a considerable pause, big with the fate of my book, he made me a bland bow, and handed
me the volume. I was equally polite on my part, inly resolving, that henceforward Austrian
douanier should not lay finger on my note-book.

The halt here was one of from two to three hours, which were spent in unlading the diligence,
opening and locking trunks,--for in Austria nothing is done in a hurry, save the trial and
execution of Mazzinists. But the long halt was nothing to me: I could not possibly lose time,
and I could scarce be stopped at the wrong place; and certainly the bridge of the Ticino is
the very spot one would select for such a halt, were the matter left in one's own choice. It
commands the finest assemblage of grand objects, in a ride abounding in magnificent objects
throughout. Having been pronounced, in passport phrase, "good to enter Austria,"--for my carpet-bag
was clean, though doubtless my mind was foul with all sorts of notions which, in the latitude
of Austria, are rankly heretical,--(and, by the way, of what use is it to search trunks, and
leave breasts unexplored? Here is an imperfection in the system, which I wonder the Jesuits
don't correct)--having, I say, had the Croat-guarded gates of Austria opened to me till I should
find it convenient to enter, I retraced the few paces which divided the Dogana from the bridge,
and stood above the rolling floods of the Ticino.

Refreshing it verily was to turn from the petty tyrannies of an Austrian custom-house, to the
free, joyous, and glorious face of nature. Before me were the Alps, just shaking the cold night
mists from their shaggy pine-clad sides, as might a lion the dew-drops from his mane. Here
rose Monte Rosa in a robe of never-fading glory and beauty; and there stood Mont Blanc, with
his diadem of dazzling snows. The giant had planted his feet deep amid rolling hills, covered
with villages, and pine-forests, and rich pastures. Anywhere else these would have been mountains;
but, dwarfed by the majestic form in whose presence they stood, they looked like small eminences,
scattered gracefully at his base, as pebbles at the foot of some lofty pile. On his breast
floated the fleecy clouds of morn, while his summit rose high above these clouds, and stood,
in the calm of the firmament, a stupendous pile of ice and snow. Never had I seen the Alps
to such advantage. The level plain ran quite up to them, and allowed the eye to take their
full height from their flower-girt base to their icy summit. Hundreds and hundreds of peaks
ran along the sky, conical, serrated, needle-shaped, jagged, some flaming like the ruby in
the morning ray, others dazzlingly white as the alabaster.

As I bent over the parapet, gazing on the flood that rolled beneath, I could not help contrasting
the bounty of nature with the oppression of man. Here had this river been flowing through the
long centuries, dispensing its blessings without stop or grudge. Day and night, summer and
winter, it had rolled gladsomely onwards, bringing verdure to the field, fruitage to the bough,
and plenty to the peasant's cot. Now it laved the flower on its brink,--now it fed the umbrageous
sycamore and the tall poplar on the plain,--and now it sent off a crystal streamlet to meander
through corn-field and meadow-land. It exacted nothing of man for the blessings it so unweariedly
dispensed. It gave all freely. Whether, said I to myself, does Italy owe most to its rivers
or to its Governments? Its rivers give it corn and wine: its Governments give it chains and
prisons. They load the patient Lombard with burdens that press him down into toil and poverty;
or they lead him away to shed his blood and lay his bones in a foreign soil. Why is it that
all the functions of nature are beneficent? Even the storms that rage around Mont Blanc, the
ice of its eternal winter, yield only good. Here they come, a river of crystal water, decking
with living green this far-spreading plain. But the institutions of man are not so. From their
frozen summits have too oft, alas! descended, not the peaceful river, but the thundering avalanche,
burying in irretrievable ruin, man, with his labours and hopes. I suspect, however, that this
is a narrow as well as a sombre philosophy. Doubtless the great fact of the Fall is written
on the face of life. Nevertheless, we have a strong belief that the mighty schemes of Providence,
like the arrangements of external nature, will all in the end become dispensers of good; that
those evil systems which have burdened the earth, like those mountains of ice and snow which
rise on its surface, have their uses, though as yet we stand too near them, and too much within
the sphere of their tempests and their avalanches, fully to comprehend these uses. We must
descend into the low-lying plains of the future, and contemplate them afar off; and then the
glaciers and tempests of these moral Mont Blancs may dissolve into tender showers and crystal
rivers, which will fructify and gladden the world.

In a few minutes I must leave the bridge of the Ticino. Could I, when far away,--in the seclusion
of my own library, for instance,--bid the Alps rise before me, in stupendous magnificence,
as now? I turned round, and fixed my gaze on the tamer objects of the plain; then back again
to the mountains; but every time I did so, I felt the scene as new. Its glory burst on me as
if seen for the first time. Alas! thought I, if this majestic image has so faded in the interval
of a few moments, what will it be years after? A scene like this, it is true, can never be
forgotten; but it is but a dwarfed picture that lives in the memory; and it is well, perhaps,
it should be so; for were one to see always the Alps, with what eyes would one look upon the
tamer though still romantic hills of his own country! And we may extend the principle. There
are times when great truths--eternal verities--flash upon the soul in Alpine magnitude. It
is a new world that discloses itself, and we are thrilled by its glory; but for the effective
discharge of ordinary duties, it is better, perhaps, that these stupendous objects should be
seen "as through a glass darkly," though still seen.

All too soon was the diligence ready to start. From the bridge of the Ticino the scenery was
decidedly tamer. The Alps fell more into the background, and with their white peaks disappeared
the chief glory of the scene. The plain was so level, and its woods of mulberry and walnut
so luxuriant, that little could be seen save the broad road, with its white lines of curb-stones
running on and on, and losing itself in the deep foliage of the plain. Its windings and turnings,
though coming only at an interval of many miles, were a pleasant relief from the sameness of
the journey. Occasionally side views of great fertility opened upon us. There were the small
farms of the Lombard; and there was the tall Lombard himself, striding across his fields. If
the farms were small, amends was made by the largeness of the farm-house. There was no great
air of comfort about it, however. It wanted its little garden, and its over-arching vine-bough,
which one sees in the happier cantons of Switzerland; and the furrowed and care-shaded face
of the owner bespoke greater acquaintance with hard labour than with the dainties which the
bounteous earth so freely yields. The Lombard plants, but another eats. We could see, too,
how extensively and thoroughly irrigated was the plain. Numerous canals, brim-full of water,
the gift of the Alps, traversed it in all directions; and by means of a system of sluices and
aqueducts the surrounding fields could be flooded at pleasure. The plain enjoys thus the elements
of a boundless fertility, and is the seat of an almost eternal summer.

 Hic Ver perpetuum, atque alienis mensibus Æstas.

But the little towns we passed looked so very old and tottering, and the inhabitants, too,
appeared as much oppressed with years or cares as the heavy dilapidated architecture amid which
they dwelt, and out of which they crept as we passed by, that one's heart grew sad. How evident
was it that the immortal spirit was withered, and that the land, despite its images of grandeur
and sublimity, nourished a stricken race! The Alps were still young, but the men that lived
within their shadow had grown very old. Their ears had too long been familiar with the clank
of chains, and their hearts were too sad to catch up the utterances of freedom which came from
their mountains. The human soul was dying, and will die, unless new fire from a celestial source
descend to rekindle it. Architecture, music, new constitutions, the ever glorious face of nature
itself, will not prevent the approaching death of the continental nations. There is but one
book in the world that can do it,--the Book of Life. Unfold its pages, and a more blessed and
glorious effulgence than that which lights up the Alps at sunrise will break upon the nations;
but, alas! this cannot be so long as the Jesuit and the Croat are there. We saw, too, on our
journey, other things that did not tend to put us into better spirits. As we approached Milan,
we met a couple of gensdarmes leading away a poor foot-sore revolutionist to the frontier.
Ah! said I inly, could the Jesuits look into my breast, they would find there ideas more dangerous
to their power, in all probability, than those that this man entertains; and yet, while he
is expelled, I am admitted. No thanks to them, however. I rode onwards. League followed league
of the richest but the most unvaried scenery. Campanile and hamlet came and went: still Milan
came not. I strained my eyes in the direction in which I expected its roofs and towers to appear,
but all to no purpose. At length there rose over the green woods that covered the plain, as
if evoked by enchantment, a vision of surpassing beauty. I gazed entranced. The lovely creation
before me was white as the Alpine snows, and shot up in a glorious cluster of towers, spires,
and pinnacles, which flashed back the splendours of the mid-day sun. It looked as if it had
sprung from under the chisel but yesterday. Indeed, one could hardly believe that human hands
had fashioned so fair a structure. It was so delicate, and graceful, and aerial, and unsullied,
that I thought of the city which burst upon the pilgrims when they had got over the river,
or that which a prophet saw descending out of heaven. Milan, hid in rich woods, was before
me, and this was its renowned Cathedral.

CHAPTER VIII.

CITY AND PEOPLE OF MILAN.

     The Barrier--Beautiful Aspect of the City--Hotel Royale--History of
     Milan--Dreariness of its Streets--Decay of Art--Decay of Trade--The
     Cathedral--Beauty, not Sublimity, its Characteristic--Its Exterior
     described--The Piazza of the Cathedral--Austrian Cannon--Pamphlets
     on Purgatory--Punch--Punch versus the Priest--Church and State in
     Italy--Austrian Oppression--Confiscation of Estates in
     Lombardy--Forced Loans--Niebuhr's Idea that the Dark Ages are
     returning.

It was an hour past noon when the diligence, with its polyglot freight, drove up to the harrier.
There gathered round the vehicle a white cloud of Austrian uniforms, and straightway every
compartment of the carriage bristled with a forest of hands holding passports. These the men-at-arms
received; and, making them hastily up into a bundle, and tying them with a piece of cord, they
despatched them by a special messenger to the Prefect; so that hardly had we entered the Porta
Vercellina, till our arrival was known at head-quarters. There was handed at the same time
to each passenger a printed paper, in which the same notification was four times repeated,--first
in Italian, next in French, then in German, and lastly in English,--enjoining the holder, under
certain penalties, to present himself within a given number of hours at the Police Office.

It was under these conditions,--a pilgrim from a far land,--that I appeared at the gates of
Milan. The passport detention seemed less an annoyance here than I had ever felt it before.
The beauteous city, sitting so tranquilly amidst the sublimest scenery, seemed to have something
of a celestial character about it. It looked so resplendent, partly by reason of the materials
of which it is built, and partly by reason of the sun that shone upon it as an Italian sun
only can shine, that none but pure men, I felt, might dwell here, and none but pure men might
enter at its gates. There were white sentinels at its portals; rows of white houses formed
its exterior; and in the middle of the city, floating above it,--for it seemed to float rather
than to rest on foundations,--was its snow-white temple,--a place too holy almost, as it seemed,
for human worship and human worshippers; and then the city had for battlements a glorious wall,
white as alabaster, which rose to the clouds. Everything conspired to cheat the visitor into
the belief that he had come at last to an abode where every hurtful passion was hushed, and
where Peace had fixed her chosen seat.

"All right," shouted the passport official: the gensdarmes, who guarded the path with naked
bayonet, stepped aside; and the quick, sharp crack of the postilion's whip set the horses a-moving.
We skirted the spacious esplanade, and saw in the distance the beauteous form of the Arco della
Pace. We had not gone far till the drum's roll struck upon the ear, and a long glittering line
of Austrian bayonets was seen moving across the esplanade. It was evident that the time had
not yet come to Milan, all glorious as she seemed, when men "shall learn war no more." We plunged
into a series of narrow streets, which open on the Mercato Vecchio. We crossed the Corso, and
came out upon the broad promenade that traverses Milan from the square of the Duomo to the
Porta Orientale. We soon found ourselves at the diligence office; and there, our little colony
of various nations breaking up, I bade adieu to the good vehicle which had carried me from
Turin, and took my way to the Hotel Royale, in the Contrada dei tre Re.

At the first summons of the porter's bell the gate opened. On entering, I found myself in what
had been one of the palaces of Milan when the city was in its best days. But the Austrian eagle
had scared the native princes and nobles of the Queen of Lombardy, who were gone, and had left
their streets to be trodden by the Croat, and their palaces to be tenanted by the wayfarer.
The buildings of the hotel formed a spacious quadrangle, three storeys high, with a finely
paved court in the centre. I was conducted up stairs to my bed-room, which, though by no means
large, and plainly furnished, presented the luxury of extreme cleanliness, with its beautifully
polished wooden floor, and its delicately white napery and curtains. The saloon on the ground-floor
opened sweetly into a little garden, with its fountain, its bit of rock-work, and its gods
and nymphs of stone. The apartment had a peculiarly comfortable air at breakfast-time. The
hissing urn, flanked by the tea-caddy; the rich brown coffee, the delicious butter, and the
not less delicious bread, the produce of the plains around, not unnaturally white, as with
us, but golden, like the wheat when it waves in the autumnal sun; and the guests, mostly English,
which assembled morning after morning,--made the return of this hour very pleasant. Establishing
myself at the Albergo Reale for this and the two following days, I sallied out, to wander everywhere
and see everything.

Milan is of ancient days; and few cities have seen greater changes of fortune. In the reign
of Diocletian and Maximilian it became the capital of the western empire, and was filled with
the temples, baths, theatres, and other monuments which usually adorn royal cities. The tempest
which Attila, in the middle of the fifth century, conducted across the Alps, fell upon it,
and swept it away. Scarce a vestige of the Roman Milan has come down to our day. A second Milan
was founded, but only to fall, in its turn, before the arms of Frederick Barbarossa. There
was a strong vitality in its site, however; and a third Milan,--the Milan of the present day,--arose.
This city is a huge collection of churches and barracks, cafés and convents, theatres and palaces,
traversed by narrow streets, ranged mostly in concentric circles round its grand central building,
the Duomo. The streets, however, that lead to its various ports, are spacious thoroughfares,
adorned with noble and elegant mansions. Such is the arrangement of the town in which I now
found myself.

I sought everywhere for the gay Milan,--the white-robed city I had seen an hour ago,--but it
was gone; and in its room sat a silent and sullen town, with an air of most depressing loneliness
about it. There were few persons on the streets; and these walked as if they dragged a chain
at their heels. I passed through whole streets of a secondary character, without meeting a
single individual, or hearing the sound of man or of living thing. It seemed as if Milan had
proclaimed a fast and gone to church; but when I looked into the churches, I saw no one there
save a solitary figure in white, in the distance, bowing and gesticulating with extraordinary
fervour, in the presence of dumb pictures and dim tapers. How can a worship in which no one
ever joins edify any one? I could discover no signs of a flourishing art. There were not a
few pretty and some beautiful things in the shop-windows; but the latter were all copies generally
of the more striking natural objects in the neighbourhood, or of the works of art in the city,
the productions of other times,--things which a dying genius might produce, but not such as
a living genius, free to give scope to her invention, would delight to create. Such was the
art of Milan,--the feeble and reflected gleam of a glory now set. As regards the trade of Milan,--a
yet more important matter,--I could see almost no signs of it either. There were walking sticks,
and such things, in considerable variety in the shops; but little of more importance. The fabrics
of the loom, and the productions of the plane, the forge, and the printing press, which crowd
our cities and dwellings, and give honest bread to our artizans, were all wanting in Milan.
How its people contrived to get through the twenty-four hours, and where they got their bread,
unless it fell from the clouds, I could not discover.

What an air of languor and weariness on the faces of the people! Amid these heavy-hearted and
dull-eyed loiterers, what a relief it would have been to have met the soiled jacket, the brawny
arm, and the manly brow, of one of our own artizans! I felt there were worse things in the
world than hard work. Better it were to roll the stone of Sisyphus all life-long, than spend
it in such idleness as weighs upon the cities of Italy. Better the clang of the forge than
the rattle of the sabre. The Milanese seemed looking into the future; and a dismal future it
is, if one may judge from their looks,--a future full of revolutions, to conduct, mayhap, to
freedom; more probably to the scaffold.

I turned sharply round the corner of a street, and there, as if it had risen from the earth,
was the Cathedral. As the sun breaking through a fog, or an Alpine peak flashing through mists,
so burst this magnificent pile upon me; and its sudden revelation dispelled on the instant
all my gloomy musings. I could only stand and gaze. Beauty, not sublimity, is the attribute
of this pile. Beauty it rains around it in a never-ending, overflowing shower, as the sun does
light, or Mont Blanc glory. I sought for some one presiding idea, simple and grand, which might
take its place in the mind, and dwell there as an image of glory, never more to fade; but I
could find no such idea. The pile is the slow creation of centuries, and the united conception
of innumerable minds, which have clubbed their ideas, so to speak, to produce this Cathedral.
Quarries of marble and millions of money have been expended upon it; and there is scarce an
architect or sculptor of eminence who has flourished since the fourteenth century, who has
not contributed to it some separate grace or glory; and now the Cathedral of Milan is perhaps
the most numerous assemblage of beauties in stone which the world contains. Impossible it were
to enumerate the elegances that cover it from top to bottom,--its carved portals, its flying
buttresses, its arabesque pilasters, its richly mullioned windows, its basso-reliefs, its beautiful
tracery, and its forest of snow-white pinnacles soaring in the sunlight, so calm and moveless,
and yet so airy and light, that you fear the nest breeze will scatter them. You can compare
it only to some Alpine group, whose flashing peaks shoot up by hundreds around some snow-white
central summit.

The building, too, is populous as a city. There are upwards of three thousand statues upon
it, and places for a thousand more. Here stands a monk, busy with his beads,--there a mailed
warrior,--there a mitred bishop,--there a pilgrim, staff in hand,--there a nun, gracefully
veiled,--and yonder hundreds of seraphs perched upon the loftier pinnacles, and looking as
if a white cloud of winged creatures from the sky had just lighted upon it.

I purposed to-morrow to climb to the roof, and thence survey the plains of Lombardy and the
chain of the Alps; so, turning away from the door, I made the tour of the square in which the
Cathedral stands. I came first upon a row of cannon, so pointed as to sweep the square. Behind
the guns, piled on the pavement, were stacks of arms, and soldiers loitering beside them. Ah!
thought I, these are the loving ties that bind the people of Lombardy to the House of Hapsburg.
The priest's chant is heard all day long within that temple; and outside there blend with it
the sentinel's tramp and the drum's roll. I passed on, and came next upon a most unusual display
of literature. Four-paged pamphlets in hundreds lay piled upon stalls, or were ranged in rows
against the wall. The subjects discussed in these pamphlets were of a high spiritual cast,
and woodcuts were freely employed to aid the reader's apprehension. These latter belonged to
a very different style of art from that conspicuous in the Cathedral, but they had the merit
of great plainness; and a glance at the woodcut enabled one to read at once the story of the
pamphlet. The wall was all a-blaze with flames; and I saw the advantage of an infallible Church
to teach one secrets which the Bible does not reveal. The sin chiefly insisted on was that
of despising the priest; and the punishment awaiting it was set before me in a way I could
not possibly mistake. Here, for instance, was a wealthy sinner, who lay dying in a splendid
mansion. With horrible impiety, the man had refused the wafer, and ordered the priest about
his business, despite the imploring tears of wife and family, who surrounded his bed. A glance
at the other compartment of the picture showed the consequence of this. There you found the
man just launched into the other world. A crowd of black fiends, hideous to behold, had seized
upon the poor soul, and were dragging it down into a weltering gulf of lurid flame. In another
picture you had an equally graphic illustration of the happiness of obeying Mother Church.
Here lay one dying amid beads, crucifixes, and shaven crowns. The devil was fleeing from the
house in terror; and in the compartment devoted to the spiritual world, the soul was following
a benevolent-looking gentleman, who carried a big key, and was walking in the direction of
a very magnificent mansion on a high hill, where, I doubt not, a welcome and hospitable reception
waited both. The same lesson was repeated along the wall times without number.

Here was the doctrine of purgatory as incontestably proved as painted flames, and images of
creatures with tails who tormented other creatures who had no tails, could prove it. If there
was no purgatory, how could the painters of an infallible Church ever have given so exact a
representation of it? And exact it must have been, else the priests would never have allowed
these pictures to be hung up here, under their very eye. This was as much as to write "cum
privilegio" underneath them. The whole scenery of purgatory was here most vividly depicted.
There were fiends flying off with souls, or tossing them with pitchforks into the flames. There
were boiling cauldrons, red-hot gridirons, cataracts of fire, and innumerable other modes of
torment. A walk along this infernal gallery was enough, one would have thought, to make the
boldest purgatory-despiser quail. But no one who has a little spare cash, and is willing to
part with it, need fear either purgatory or the devil. In the large marble house in the centre
of the square one might buy at a reasonable rate an excision of some thousands of years from
his appointed sojourn in that gloomy region. And doubtless that was one reason for bringing
this purgatorial gallery and the indulgence-market into such close proximity. It reminded the
people of the latter inestimable blessing; and without some such salutary impulse the traffic
in indulgences might flag.

I could not but remark, that the only person for whom these extraordinary representations appeared
to have any attractions was myself. Not so the exhibition on the other side of the square.
Having perused with no ordinary interest, though, I fear, with not much profit, this "Theory
of a Future State," I crossed the quadrangle, passing right under the eastern towers of the
Cathedral, and came suddenly upon a knot of persons gathered round a tall rectangular box,
in which was enacting the melo-drama of Punch. These persons were enjoying the fun with a relish
which was noways abated by the spectacle over the way. The whole thing was acted exactly as
I had seen it before; but to me it was a novelty to hear Punch, and all the other interlocutors
in the piece, discourse in the language in which Dante had sung, and in which I had heard,
just before leaving Scotland, Gavazzi declaim. In all lands Punch is an astute scoundrel; but,
strange to say, in all lands the popular feeling is on his side. His imperturbable coolness
and truculent villany procured him plaudits among the Milanese, as I had seen them do elsewhere.
Courage and self-possession are valuable qualities, and for their sake we sometimes forgive
bad men and bad causes; whereas, from nothing do we more instinctively recoil than from hypocrisy.
On this principle it is, perhaps, that we have a sort of liking for Punch, incorrigible scoundrel
as he is; and that great criminals, who rob and murder at the head of armies, we deify, while
little ones we hang.

I had now completed my tour of the Cathedral, and could not help reflecting on the miscellaneous,
and apparently incongruous, character of the spectacles grouped together in the square. In
the middle was the great temple, in which priests, in stole and mitre, celebrated the high
mysteries of their Church. In one of the angles were rows of mounted cannon, and a forest of
bayonets. In another was seen the whole process of refining souls in purgatory. Strange, that
if men here are shut up in prisons and hulks amid desperadoes, they come out more finished
villains than they entered; whereas hereafter, if men are shut up with even worse characters,
amid blazing fires, glowing gridirons, and cauldrons of boiling lead, they come out perfected
in virtue. They pass at once from the society of fiends, where they have been whipped, roasted,
and I know not what, to the society of angels. This is a strange schooling to give dignity
to the character and conscious purity to the mind. And yet Rome subjects all her sons to this
discipline for a longer or shorter period. Much do we marvel, that the same process which unfits
men for associating with respectable people here should be the very thing to prepare them for
good society hereafter. The other side of the square Punch had all to himself; and Punch, I
saw, was the favourite. The inhabitants of Milan kept as respectable a distance from the painted
fiends as if they had been veritable Satans, ready to clutch the incautious passer-by, and
carry him off to their den. They kept the same respectable distance from the Austrian cannon;
and these were no painted terrors. And as regards the Cathedral, scarce a solitary foot crossed
its threshold, though there,--astounding prodigy!--He who made the worlds was Himself made
many times every day by the priests. But Punch had a dense crowd of delighted spectators around
him; and yet he competed with the priest at immense disadvantage. Punch played his part in
a humble wooden shed, while the priest played his in a magnificent marble Cathedral, with a
splendid wardrobe to boot. Still the people seemed to feel, that the only play in which there
was any earnestness was that which was enacted in the wooden box. A stranger from India or
China, who was not learned in either the religion or the drama of Europe, would probably have
been unable to see any great difference between the two, and would have taken both for religious
performances; concluding, perhaps, that that in the Cathedral was the established form, while
that in the wooden box was the disestablished; in short, that Punch had been a priest at some
former period of his life, and sung mass and sold indulgences; but that, imbibing some heterodox
notions, or having fallen into some peccadillo, such as eating flesh on Friday, he had been
unfrocked and driven out, and compelled to play the priest in a wooden tabernacle.

To return once more to the paintings and woodcuts illustrative of the punitive and purgative
processes of purgatory, and which were in a style of art that demonstratively shows, that if
Italy is advancing in the knowledge of a future life, she is retrograding in the arts of the
present,--to recur, I say, to these, there rested some doubt, to say the least of it, over
their revelations of the world to come; but there rested no doubt whatever over their revelations
of the present condition of Church and State in Italy. On this head the cannon and woodcuts
told far more than the priests wished, or perhaps thought. They showed that both the State
and the Church in that country are now reduced to their ultima ratio, brute force. The State
has lost all hope of governing its subjects by giving them good laws, and inspiring them with
loyalty; and the Church has long since abandoned the plan of producing obedience and love by
presenting great truths to the mind. Both have found out a shorter and more compendious policy.
The State, speaking through her cannon, says, "Obey me or die;" and the Church, speaking through
purgatory, says, "Believe me or burn." There is one comfort in this, however,--the present
system is obviously the last. When force gives way, all gives way. The Church will stand, doubtless,
because they tell us she is founded on a rock; but what will become of the State? When men
can be awed neither by painted fiends nor real cannon, what is to awe them? Indeed, we shrewdly
suspect, that even now the fiends would count for little, were it not for the fiends incarnate,
in the shape of Croats, by which the others are backed. The Lombards would boldly face the
gridirons, cauldrons, and stinging creatures gathered in the one corner of the square at Milan,
if they but knew how to muzzle the cannon which are assembled in the other.

In truth, things in this part of the world are not looking up. A universal serfdom and barbarism
are slowly creeping over all men and all systems. The Government of Austria has become more
revolutionary than the Revolution itself. By violating the rights of property, it has indorsed
the worst doctrines of Socialism. That Government has, in a great number of instances, seized
upon estates, without making out a title to them by any regular process of law. After the attempted
outbreak at Milan in 1852, the landed property of well-nigh all the royalist emigrants was
swept away by a decree of sequestration. The Milan Gazette published a list of seventy-two
political refugees whose property has been laid under sequestration in the provinces of Milan,
Como, Mantua, Lodi, Pavia, Brescia, Cremona, Bergamo, and Sondrio. In this list we find the
names of many distinguished persons, such as Count Arese, the two Counts Borromeo, General
Lechi, Duke Litta, Count Litta, Marquis Pallavicini, Marquis Rosales, Princess Belgioso. The
pretext for seizing their estates was, that their owners had contributed to the revolutionary
treasury; which was incredible to those who know the difference in feeling and views which
separate the royalist emigrant nobles of Lombardy from the democratic republicans that follow
Mazzini. In truth, the Government of Vienna needs their estates; and, imitating the example
of the French Convention, and furnishing another precedent for Socialism when it shall come
into power, it seized them without any colour of right or form of law. Another branch of the
scourging tyranny of Austria is the system of forced loans. Some of the wealthiest families
of Lombardy have been impoverished by these, and, of course, thrown into the ranks of the disaffected.
The Austrian method of making slavery maintain itself is also peculiarly revolting. The hundred
millions raised annually in Venetian Lombardy, instead of being spent in the service of these
provinces, are devoted to the payment of the troops that keep down Hungary. The soldiers levied
in Italy are sent into the German provinces; and those raised in Croatia are employed in keeping
down Italy. Thus Italy holds the chain of Hungary, and Hungary, in her turn, that of Italy;
and so insult is added to oppression.

The very roots of liberty are being dug out of the soil. The free towns have lost their rights;
the provinces their independence; and the tendency of things is towards the formation of great
centralized despotisms. Thus an Asiatic equality and barbarism is sinking down upon continental
Europe. So much is this the case, that some of the thinking minds in Germany are in the belief
that the dark ages are returning. The following passage in the "Life and Letters of Niebuhr,"
written less than two months before his death in 1831, is almost prophecy:--

"It is my firm conviction that we, particularly in Germany, are rapidly hastening towards barbarism;
and it is not much better in France.

"That we are threatened with devastation such as that two hundred years ago, is, I am sorry
to say, just as clear to me; and the end of the tale will be, despotism enthroned amidst universal
ruin. In fifty years, and probably much less, there will be no trace left of free institutions,
or the freedom of the press, throughout all Europe, at least on the Continent. Very few of
the things which have happened since the revolution in Paris have surprised me."

The half of that period has scarce elapsed, and the prognostication of Niebuhr has been all
but realized. At this hour, Piedmont excepted, there is no trace left of free institutions,
or the freedom of the press, in Southern and Eastern Europe. Nor will these nations ever be
able to lift themselves out of the gulph into which they have fallen. Revolution, Socialism,
war, will only hasten the advent of a centralized despotism. We know of only one agency,--even
Christianity,--which, by reviving the virtue and self-government of the individual, and the
moral strength of nations, can recover their liberties. If Christianity can be diffused, well;
if not, I do firmly believe with Niebuhr that, on the Continent at least, we shall have a return
of "the dark ages," and "despotism enthroned amidst universal ruin."

CHAPTER IX.

ARCO DELLA PACE.

     Depressing Effect produced by Sight of Slavery--The Castle of
     Milan--Non-intercourse of Italians and Austrians--Arco della
     Pace--Contrasted with the Duomo--Evening--Ambrose--Milanese
     Inquisition--The Two Symbols.

It was now drawing towards evening; and I must needs see the sun go down behind the Alps. There
are no sights like those which nature has provided for us. What are embattled cities and aisled
cathedrals to the eternal hills, with their thunder-clouds, and their rising and setting suns?
Making my exit by the northern gate of the city, I soon forgot, in the presence of the majestic
mountains, the narrow streets and clouded faces amid which I had been wandering. Their peaks
seemed to look serenely down upon the despots and armies at their feet; and at sight of them,
the burden I had carried all day fell off, and my mind mounted at once to its natural pitch.
How crushing must be the endurance of slavery, if even the sight of it produces such prostration!
Day by day it eats into the soul, weakening its spring, and lowering its tone, till at last
the man becomes incapable of noble thoughts or worthy deeds; and then we condemn him because
he lies down contentedly in his chains, or breaks them on the heads of his oppressors.

Emerging from the lanes of the city, I found myself on a spacious esplanade, enclosed on three
of its sides by double rows of noble elms, and bounded on the remaining side by the cafés and
wine-shops of the city, filled with a crowd of loquacious, if not gay, loiterers. In the middle
of the esplanade rose the Castle of Milan,--a gloomy and majestic pile, of irregular form,
but of great strength. It was on the top of this donjon that the beacon was to be kindled which
was to call Lombardy to arms, in the projected insurrection of 1852. The soft green of the
esplanade was pleasantly dotted by white groupes in the Austrian uniform, who loitered at the
gates, or played games on the sward. But neither here nor in the cafés, nor anywhere else,
did I ever see the slightest intercourse betwixt the soldiers and the populace. On the contrary,
the two seemed on every occasion to avoid each other, as men, not only of different nations,
but of different eras.

There are two monuments, and only two, in Italy, which redeem its modern architecture from
the reproach of universal degeneracy. One of these is the Triumphal Arch of Milan, known also
as the Arco della Pace. It was full in view from where I stood, rising on the northern edge
of the esplanade, with the line of road stretching out from it, and running on and on towards
the Alps, over which it climbs, forming the famous Simplon Pass. I crossed the plain in the
direction of the Arco della Pace, to have a nearer inspection of it. It was more to my taste
than the Duomo. The Cathedral, much as I admired it, had a bewildering and dissipating effect.
It presented a perfect universe of towers, pinnacles, and statues, flashing in the Italian
sun, and in the yet more dazzling splendour of its own beauty. But, stript of the tracery with
which it is so profusely covered, and the countless statues that nestle in its niches, it would
be a withered, naked, and unsightly thing, like a tree in winter. Not so the arch to which
I was advancing. It rose before me in simple grandeur. It might be defaced,--it might grow
old; but its beauty could not perish while its form remained. It presents but one simple and
grand idea; and, seen once, it never can be forgotten. It takes its place as an image of beauty,
to dwell in the mind for ever. To look upon it was to draw in concentration and strength.

I found this arch guarded by a Croat,--beauty in the keeping of barbarism. Much I wondered
what sensations it could produce in such a mind: of course, I had no means of knowing. I touched
the arch with my palm, to ascertain the quality of its polish and workmanship. The Croat made
a threatening gesture, which I took as a hint not to repeat the action. I walked under it,--walked
round it,--viewed it on all sides; but why should I describe what the engraver's art has made
so familiar all over Europe? And such is the power of a simple and sublime idea,--whether the
pen or the chisel has given it body,--to transmit itself, and retain its hold on the mind,
that, though I had only now seen the Arco della Pace for the first time, I felt as if I had
been familiar with it all my life; and so, doubtless, does my reader. The little squat figure,
with the swarthy face, and dull, cold eye, that kept pacing beside it, watched me all the while
my survey was going on. Sorely must it have puzzled him to discover the cause of the interest
I took in it. Most probably he took me for a necromancer, whose simple word might transport
the arch across the Alps.

The very spirit of peace pervaded the scene around the Arco della Pace. Peace descended from
the summits of the Alps, and peace breathed upon me from the tops of the elms. It was sweet
to see the gathering of the shadows upon the great plain; it was sweet to see the waggoner
come slowly along the great Simplon road; it was sweet to see the husbandman unyoke his bullocks,
and come wending his way homeward over the rich ploughed land, beneath the beautiful festoonings
of the vine; sweet even were the city-stirs, as, mellowed by distance, they broke upon the
ear; but sweeter than all was it to mark the sun's departure among the Alps. One might have
fancied the mountains a wall of sapphire inclosing some terrestrial paradise,--some blessed
clime, where hunger, and thirst, and pain, and sorrow, were unknown. Alas! if such were Lombardy,
what meant the Croat beside me, and the black eagle blazoned on the flag, that I saw floating
on the Castle of Milan? The sight of these symbols of foreign oppression recalled the haggard
faces and toil-bent frames I had seen on my journey to Milan. I thought of the rich harvests
which the sun of Lombardy ripens only that the Austrian may reap them, and the fertile vines
which the Lombard plants only that the Croat may gather them. I thought of the sixty thousand
expatriated citizens whose lands the Government had confiscated, and of the victims that pined
in the fortresses and dungeons of Lombardy; and I felt that truly this was no paradise. To
me, who could demand my passport and re-cross the Alps whenever I pleased, these mountains
were a superb sight; but what could the poor Lombard, whom Radetzky might order to prison or
to execution on the instant, see in them, but the walls of a vast prison?

The light was fast fading, and I re-crossed the esplanade, on my way back to the city. High
above its roofs, rose the spires and turrets of the Duomo, looking palely in the twilight,
and reminding one of a cluster of Norwegian pines, covered with the snows of winter. As I slowly
and musingly pursued my way, my mind went back to the better days of Milan. Here Ambrose had
lived; and how oft, at even-tide, had his feet traversed this very plain, musing, the while,
on the future prospects of the Church. Ah! little did he think, that what he believed to be
the opening day was but a brief twilight, dividing the pagan darkness now past from the papal
night then fast descending. But to the Churches of Lombardy it was longer light than to those
of southern Italy. Ambrose went to the grave; but the spirit of the man who had closed the
Cathedral gates in the face of the Goths of Justina, and exacted a public repentance of the
Emperor Theodosius, lived after him. From him, doubtless, the Milanese caught that love of
independence in spiritual matters which long afterwards so honourably distinguished them. They
fought a hard battle with Rome for their religious freedom, but the battle proved a losing
one. It was not, however, till towards the twelfth century, when every other Church in Christendom
almost had acknowledged the claims of Rome, and an Innocent was about to mount the throne of
the Vatican, that the complete subjugation of the Churches of Lombardy was effected. When the
sixteenth century, like the breath of heaven, opened on the world, the Reformation began to
take root in Lombardy. But, alas! the ancient spirit of the Milanese revived for but a moment,
only to be crushed by the Inquisition. The arts by which this terrible tribunal was introduced
into the duchy finely illustrate the policy of Rome, which knows so well how to temporize without
relinquishing her claims. Philip II. proposed to establish this tribunal in Milan after the
Spanish fashion; and Pope Pius IV. at first favoured his design. But finding that the Milanese
were determined to resist, the pontiff espoused their cause, and told them, in effect, that
it was not without reason that they dreaded the Spanish Inquisition. It was, he said, a harsh,
cruel, inexorable Court--(he forgot that he had sanctioned it by a bull)--which condemned men
without trial; but he had an Inquisition of his own, which never did any one any harm, and
which his subjects in Rome were exceedingly fond of. This he would send to them. The Milanese
were caught in the trap. In the hope of getting rid of the Spanish Inquisition, they accepted
the Roman one, which proved equally fatal in the end. The degradation of Lombardy dates from
that day. The Inquisition paved the way for Austrian domination. The familiars of the Holy
Office were the avant couriers of the black eagles and Croats of the house of Hapsburg.

In the arch behind me, so simple withal, and yet so noble in its design, and whose beauty,
dependent on no adventitious helps or meretricious ornaments, but inherent in itself, was seen
and felt by all, I saw, I thought, a type of the Gospel; while the many-pinnacled and richly-fretted
Cathedral before me seemed the representative of the Papacy. As stands this arch, in simple
but eternal beauty, beside the inflated glories of the Duomo, so stands the gospel amid the
spurious systems of the world. They, like the Cathedral, are elaborate and artificial piles.
The stones of which they are built are absurd doctrines, burdensome rites, and meaningless
ceremonies. In beautiful contrast to their complexity and inconsistency, the Gospel presents
to the world one simple and grand idea. They perplex and weary their votaries, who lose themselves
amid the tangled paths and intricate labyrinths with which they abound. The Gospel, on the
other hand, offers a plain and straight path to the enquirer, which, once found, can never
be lost. These systems grow old, and, having lived their day, return to the earth, out of which
they arose. The Gospel never dies,--never grows old. Fixed on an immoveable basis, it stands
sublimely forth amid the lapse of ages and the decay of systems, charming all minds by its
simplicity, and subduing all minds by its power. It says nothing of penances, nothing of pilgrimages,
nothing of tradition, nor of works of supererogation, nor of efficacious sacraments dispensed
by the hands of an apostolically descended clergy: its one simple and sublime announcement
is, that Eternal Life is the Free Gift of God through the Death of his Son.

CHAPTER X.

THE DUOMO OF MILAN.

     Interior Disappoints at First Sight--Expands into
     Magnificence--Description of Interior--Mummy of San Carlo
     Borromeo--His too early Canonization--A Priest at Mass--The Two
     Mysteries--Distinction between Religion and Worship--Roof of
     Cathedral--Aspect of Lombardy from thence--Ascend to the Top of
     Tower--Objects in the Square--Miniature of the World--The Alps from
     the Cathedral Roof--Martyr Associations--A Future Morning.

My next day was devoted to the Cathedral. Entering by the great western doorway,--a low-browed
arch, rich in carving and statuary,--I pushed aside the thick, heavy quilt that closes the
entrance of all the Italian churches, and stood beneath the roof. My first feeling was one
of disappointment; so great was the contrast betwixt the airy and sunlight beauty of the exterior,
and the massive and sombre grandeur within. The marble of the floor was sorely fretted by the
foot: its original colours of blue and red had passed into a dingy gray, chequered with the
variously-tinted light which flowed in through the stained windows. The white walls and unadorned
pillars looked cold and naked. Beggars were extending their caps towards you for an alms. On
the floor rose a stack of rush-bottomed chairs, as high as a two-storey house,--as if the priests,
dreading an eméute, had made preparations by throwing up a barricade. A carpenter, mounted
on a tall ladder, was busied, with hammer and nails, suspending hangings of tapestry along
the nave, in honour, I presume, of some saint whose fête-day was approaching. The dim light
could but feebly illuminate the many-pillared, long-aisled building, and gave to the vast edifice
something of a cavern look.

But by and by the eye got attempered; and then, like an autumnal haze clearing away from the
face of the landscape, and revealing the glories of green meadow, golden field, and wooded
mountain, the obscurity that wrapped pillar and aisle gradually brightened up, and the temple
around me began to develope into the noblest proportions and the most impressive grandeur.
Some hundred and fifty feet over head was suspended the stone roof; and one could not but admire
the lightness and elegance of its groined vaultings, and the stately stature of the columns
that supported it. Their feet planted on the marble floor, they stood, bearing up with unbowing
strength, through the long centuries, the massive, stable, steadfast roof, from which the spirit
of tranquillity and calm seemed to breathe upon you. On either hand three rows of colossal
pillars ran off, forming a noble perspective of well nigh five hundred feet. They stretched
away over transept and chancel, towards the great eastern window, which, like a sun glowing
with rosy light, was seen rising behind the high altar, bearing on its ample disc the emblazoned
symbols of the Book of the Apocalypse. The aisles were deep and shadowy; and through their
forests of columns there broke on the sight glimpses of monumental tombs and altars ranged
against the wall. I passed slowly along in front of these beautiful monuments, and read upon
their marble the names of warriors and cardinals, some of whom still keep their place on the
page of history. It took me some three hours to make the circuit of the Cathedral; but I shall
not spend as many minutes in describing the works of art--some of them marvels of their kind--which
passed under my eye; for my readers, I suspect, would not thank me for doing worse what the
guide-books have done better. Below the great window in the apsis,--the same that contains
what is one of the earliest of modern commentaries on the Book of Revelation,--the pavement
was perforated by a number of small openings; and on looking down, I could see a subterranean
chamber, with burning lamps. Its wall was adorned with pictures like the great temple above:
and I could plainly hear the low chant of priests issuing from it. I had lighted, in short,
upon a subterranean chapel; and here, in a shrine of gold and silver, lay embalmed the body
of a former Archbishop of Milan--San Carlo Borromeo. Through the glass-lid of the coffin you
could see the half-rotten corpse,--for the skill of the embalmer had been no match for the
stealthy advances of decay,--tricked out in its gorgeous vestments, with the ring glittering
on its finger, and the mitre pressing upon its fleshless skull. San Carlo Borromeo is the patron
saint of Milan; and hence these perpetual lamps and ceaseless chantings at his tomb. The black
withered face and naked skull grin horribly at the flaunting finery that surrounds him; and
one almost expects to see him stretch out his skeleton hands, and tear it angrily in rags.
The unusually short period of thirty years was all that intervened betwixt the death and the
canonization of San Carlo; and his mother, who was alive at the time, though a very aged woman,
had the peculiar satisfaction of seeing her son placed on the altars of Rome, and become an
object of worship,--a happiness which, so far as we know, has not been enjoyed by mortal mother
since the days of Juno and other ladies of her time. We do not envy San Carlo his honours;
but we submit whether it was judicious to confer them just so soon. Before decreeing worship
to one, would it not be better to let his contemporaries pass from the stage of time? Incongruous
reminiscences are apt to mix themselves up with his worship. San Carlo had been like other
children when young, we doubt not, and was none the worse of the castigation he received at
times from the hand of her whose duty it now became to worship him. His mother little dreamt
that it was an infant god she was chastising. "He was a pleasant companion," said a lady, when
informed of the canonization of St Francis de Sales, "but he cheated horribly at cards." "When
I was at Milan," says Addison, "I saw a book newly published, that was dedicated to the present
head of the Borromean family, and entitled, A Discourse on the Humility of Jesus Christ, and
of St Charles Borromeo."

I came round, and stood in front of the high altar. It towers to a great height, looking like
the tall mast of a ship; and, could any supposable influence throw the marble floor on which
it rests into billows, it might ride safely on their tops, beneath the stone roof of the Cathedral.
A priest was saying mass, and some half-dozen of persons on the wooden benches before the chancel
were joining in the service. It was a cold affair; and the vastness of the building but tended
to throw an air of insignificance over it. The languid faces of the priest and his diminutive
congregation brought vividly to my recollection the crowd of animated countenances I had seen
outside the same building, around Punch, the day before. The devotion before me was a dead,
not a living thing. It had been dead before the foundations of this august temple were laid.
But it loved to revisit "the glimpses" of these tapers, and to grimace and mutter amid these
shadowy aisles. To nothing could I compare it but to the skeleton in the chapel beneath, that
lay rotting in a shroud of gorgeous robes. It was as much a corpse as that skeleton, and, like
it too, it bore a shroud of purple and scarlet, and fine linen and gold, which concealed only
in part its ghastliness. Were Ambrose to come back, he would once more close his Cathedral
gates, but this time in the face of the priests.

"Without controversy," says the apostle, "great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest
in the flesh." "Without controversy, great is the mystery of" iniquity. "God was manifest in
the" mass. These are the two INCARNATIONS--the two MYSTERIES. They stand confronting one another.
Romish writers style the mass emphatically "the mystery;" and as that dogma is a capital one
in their system, it follows that their Church has mystery written on her forehead, as plainly
as John saw it on that of the woman in the Apocalypse. But farther, what is the principle of
the mass? Is it not that Christ is again offered in sacrifice, and that the pain he endures
in being so propitiates God in your behalf? Is not, then, the area of Europe that is covered
with masses "the place where our Lord was crucified?"

The stream can never rise higher than its source; and so is it with worship. That worship that
cometh of man cannot, in the nature of things, rise higher than man. The worship of Rome is
manifestly man-contrived. It may be expected, therefore, to rise to the level of his tastes,
but not a hairbreadth higher. It may stimulate and delight his faculties, such as they are,
but it cannot regenerate them. At the best, it is only the æsthetic faculties which the worship
of Rome calls into exercise. It presents no truth to the mind, and cannot therefore act upon
the moral powers. God is unseen: He is hidden in the dark shadow of the priest. How, then,
can He be regarded with confidence or love? The doctrine of the atonement,--the central glory
of the Christian system,--is unknown. It is eclipsed by the mass. If you want to be religious,--to
obtain salvation,--you buy masses. You need not cultivate any moral quality. You need not even
be grateful. You have paid the market-price of the salvation you carry home, and are debtor
to no one.

Those who speak of the worship of the Church of Rome as well fitted to make men devout, only
betray their complete ignorance of all that constitutes worship. Men must be devout before
they can worship. There is no error in the world more common than that of putting worship for
religion. Worship is not the cause, but the effect. Worship is simply the expression of an
inward feeling, that feeling being religion; and nothing is more obvious, than that till this
feeling be implanted, there can be no worship. The man may bow, or chant, or mutter; he cannot
worship. He may be dazzled by fine pictures, but not melted into love or raised to hope by
glorious truths. Moral feelings can be produced not otherwise than by the apprehension of moral
truths; but in the Church of Rome all the great verities of revelation lie out of sight, being
covered with the dense shadow of symbol and error. A single verse of Scripture would do more
to awaken mind and produce devotion than all the statues and fine pictures of all the cathedrals
in Italy.

I got weary at last of these shadowy aisles and the priests' monotonous chant; and so, paying
a small fee, I had a low door in the south transept opened to me; and, groping my way up a
stair of an hundred and fifty steps, or rather more, I came out upon the top of the Cathedral.
I had left a noble temple, but only to be ushered into a far nobler,--its roof the blue vault,
its floor the great Lombardy plain, and its walls the Alps and Apennines. The glory of the
temple beneath was forgotten by reason of the greater glory of that into which I had entered.
It was not yet noon, and the morning mists were not yet wholly dissipated. The Alps and the
Apennines were imprisoned in a shroud of vapour. Nevertheless the scene was a noble one. Lombardy
was level as the sea. I have seen as level and as circular an expanse from a ship's deck, when
out of sight of land, but nowhere else. One of the most prominent features of the scene were
the long straight rows of the Lombardy poplar, which, rooted in its native soil, and drinking
its native waters, shoots up into the most goodly stature and the most graceful form. And then,
there were glimpses of beautifully green meadows, and long silvery lines of canals; and all
over the plain there peeped out from amidst rich woods, the white walls of hamlets and towns,
and the tall, slender Campanile. The country towards the north was remarkably populous. From
the gates of Milan to the skirts of the mists that veiled the Alps the plain was all a-gleam
with white-walled villages, beautifully embowered. A fairer picture, or one more suggestive
of peace and happiness, is perhaps nowhere to be seen. But, alas! past experience had taught
me, that these dwellings, so lovely when seen from afar, would sink, on a near approach, into
ill-furnished and filthy hovels, with inmates groaning under the double burden of ignorance
and poverty.

When the more distant objects allowed me to attend to those at hand, I found that I was not
alone on the Cathedral's roof. There were around me an assembly of some thousands. The only
moving figure, it is true, was myself: the rest stood mute and motionless, each in his little
house of stone; but so eloquent withal, in both look and gesture, that you half expected to
find yourself addressed by some one in this life-like crowd of figures.

I ascended to the different levels by steps on the flying buttresses. A winding staircase in
a turret of open tracery next carried me to the Octagon, where I found myself surrounded by
a new zone of statues. Here I again made a long halt, admiring the landscape as seen under
this new elevation, and doing my best to scrape acquaintance with my new companions. I now
prepared for my final ascent. Entering the spire, I ascended its winding staircase, and came
out at the foot of the pyramid that crowns the edifice. Higher I could not go. Here I stood
at a height of about three hundred and fifty feet, looking down upon the city and the plain.
I had left the grosser forms of monks and bishops far beneath, and was surrounded--as became
my aerial position--with winged cherubs, newly alighted, as it seemed, on the spires and turrets
which shot up like a forest at my feet. Here I waited the coming of the Alps, with all the
impatience with which an audience at the theatre waits the rising of the curtain.

Meanwhile, till it should please Monte Rosa and her long train of white-robed companions to
emerge, I had the city spectacles to amuse me. There was Milan at my feet. I could count its
every house, and trace the windings of its every street and lane, as easily as though it had
been laid down upon a map. I could see innumerable black dots moving about in the streets,--mingling,
crossing, gathering in little knots, then dissolving, and the constituent atoms falling into
the stream, and floating away. Then there came a long white line with nodding plumes; and I
could faintly hear the tramp of horses; and then there followed a mustering of men and a flashing
of bayonets in the square below. I sat watching the manoeuvres of the little army beneath for
an hour or so, while drum and clarionet did their best to fill the square with music, and send
up their thousand echoes to break and die amid the spires and statues of the Cathedral. At
last the mimic war was ended, and I was left alone, with the silent and moveless, but ever
acting statues around and below me. What a picture, thought I, of the pageantry of life, as
viewed from a higher point than this world! Instead of an hour, take a thousand years, and
how do the scenes shift! The golden spectacle of empire has moved westward from the banks of
the Euphrates to those of the Tiber and the Thames. You can trace its track by the ruins it
has left. The field has been illuminated this hour by the gleam of arts and empire, and buried
in the darkness of barbarism the next. Man has been ever busy. He has builded cities, fought
battles, set up thrones, constructed systems. There has been much toil and confusion, but,
alas! little progress. Such would be the sigh which some superior being from some tranquil
station on high would heave over the ceaseless struggle and change in the valley of the world.
And yet, amid all its changes, great principles have been taking root, and a noble edifice
has been emerging.

But, lo! the mists are rising, and yonder are the Alps. Now that the curtain is rent, one flashing
peak bursts upon you after another. They come not in scores, but in hundreds. And now the whole
chain, from the snowy dome of the Ortelles in the far-off Tyrol, to the beauteous pyramid of
Monte Viso in the south-western sky, is before you in its noble sweep of many hundreds of miles,
with thousands of snowy peaks, amid which, pre-eminent in glory, rises Monte Rosa. Turning
to the south, you have the purple summits of the Apennines rising above the plain. Between
this blue line in the south and that magnificent rampart of glaciers and peaks in the north,
what a vast and dazzling picture of meadows, woods, rivers, cities, with the sun of Italy shining
over all!

Ye glorious piles! well are ye termed everlasting. Kings and kingdoms pass away, but on you
there passes not the shadow of change. Ye saw the foundations of Rome laid;--now ye look down
upon its ruins. In comparison with yours, man's life dwindles to a moment. Like the flower
at your foot, he blooms for an instant, and sinks into the tomb. Nay, what is a nation's duration,
when weighed against thine? Even the forests that wave on your slopes will outlast empires.
Proud piles, how do ye stamp with insignificance man's greatest labours! This glorious edifice
on which I stand,--ages was it in building; myriads of hands helped to rear it; and yet, in
comparison with your gigantic masses, what is it?--a mere speck. Already it is growing old;--ye
are still young. The tempests of six thousand winters have not bowed you down. Your glory lightened
the cradle of nations,--your shadows cover their tomb.

But to me the great charm of the Alps lay in the sacred character which they wore. They seemed
to rise before me, a vast temple, crowned, as temple never was, with sapphire domes and pinnacles,
in which a holy nation had worshipped when Europe lay prostrate before the Dagon of the Seven
Hills. I could go back to a time when that plain, now covered, alas! with the putridities of
superstition, was the scene of churches in which the gospel was preached, of homes in which
the Bible was read, of happy death-beds, and blessed graves,--graves in which, in the sublime
words of our catechism, "the bodies of the saints being still united to Christ, do rest in
their graves till the Resurrection." Sleep on, ye blessed dead! This pile shall crumble into
ruin; the Alps dissolve, Rome herself sink; but not a particle of your dust shall be lost.
The reflection recalled vividly an incident of years gone by. I had sauntered at the evening
hour into a retired country churchyard in Scotland. The sun, after a day of heavy rain, was
setting in glory, and his rays were gilding the long wet grass above the graves, and tinting
the hoar ruins of a cathedral that rose in the midst of them, when my eye accidentally fell
upon the following lines, which I quote from memory, carved in plain characters upon one of
the tombstones:--

 The wise, the just, the pious, and the brave,
 Live in their death, and flourish from the grave.
 Grain hid in earth repays the peasant's care,
 And evening suns but set to rise more fair.

There are no such epitaphs in the graveyards of Lombardy; nor could there be any such in that
of Dunblane, but for the Reformation.

CHAPTER XI.

MILAN TO BRESCIA.

     Biblioteca Ambrosiana--A Lamp in a Sepulchre--The
     Palimpsests--Labours of the Monks in the Cause of
     Knowledge--Cardinal Mai--He recovers many valuable Manuscripts of
     the Ancients which the Monks had Mutilated--Ulfila's Bible--The War
     against Knowledge--The Brazent Serpent at Sant' Ambrogio--Passport
     Office--Last Visit to the Duomo and the Arco Della Pace--The Alps
     apostrophized--Dinner at a Restaurant--Leave Milan--Procession of
     the Alps--Treviglio--The River Adda--The Postilion--Evening, with
     dreamy, decaying Borgos--Caravaggio--Supper at
     Chiari--Brescia--Arnold of Brescia.

The morning of my last day in Milan was passed in the Biblioteca Ambrosiana. This justly renowned
library was founded in 1609 by Cardinal Borromeo, the cousin of that Borromeo whose mummy lies
so gorgeously enshrined in the subterranean chapel of the Duomo. This prelate was at vast care
and expense to bring together in this library the most precious manuscripts extant. For this
purpose he sent learned men into every part of Europe, with instructions to buy whatever of
value they might be fortunate enough to discover, and to copy such writings as their owners
might be unwilling to part with. The Biblioteca Ambrosiana is worth a visit, were it only to
see the first public library established in Europe. There were earlier libraries, and some
not inconsiderable ones, but only in connection with cathedrals and colleges; and access to
them was refused to all save to the members of these establishments. This, on the contrary,
was opened to the public; and, with a liberality rare in those days, writing materials were
freely supplied to all who frequented it. The library buildings form a quadrangle of massive
masonry, with a grave, venerable look, becoming its name. The collection is upwards of 80,000
volumes; but, what is not very complimentary to the literary tastes of the prefetto and honorary
canons of Sant' Ambrogio, the curators of the library, they are arranged, not according to
their subjects, but according to their sizes. This library reminded me of a lamp in an Etrurian
tomb. There was light enough in that hall to illuminate the whole duchy of the Milanese, could
it but find an outlet. As it is, I fear a few straggling rays are all that are able to escape.
There is no catalogue of the books, save some very imperfect lists; and I was told that there
is a pontifical bull against making any such. I saw a few visitors in its halls, attracted,
like myself, by its curiosities; but I saw no one who had come to restore volumes they had
read, and receive others in their room. The modern inhabitant of Milan gives his days and nights
to the café and the club,--not to the library. He lives and dies unpolluted by the printing
press,--an execrable invention of the fifteenth century, from which a paternal Government and
an infallible Church employ their utmost energies to shield him. The works of dead authors
he dare not read; the productions of living ones he dare not print; and the only compositions
to which he has access are the decrees of the Austrian police, and the Catechism of the Jesuit.
He fully appreciates, of course, the care taken to preserve the purity of his political and
religious faith, and will one day show the extent of his gratitude.

I saw in this library the famous Palimpsests. My readers know, of course, what these are. The
Palimpsests are little books of vellum, from which an original and ancient writing has been
erased, to make room for the productions of later ages and of other pens. These pages bore
originally the thoughts of Virgil and Livy, and, in short, of almost all the great writers
of pagan, antiquity; but the monks, who did not relish their pagan notions, thought the vellum
would be much better bestowed if filled with their own homilies. The good fathers conceived
the project of enlightening and evangelizing the world by purging of its paganism all the vellum
in Europe; and, being much intent on their object, they succeeded in it to an amazing extent.

 "A second deluge learning did o'errun,
 And the monks finished what the Goths begun."

Our readers have often seen with what rapidity a fog swallows up a landscape. They have marked,
with a feeling of despair, golden peak and emerald valley sinking hopelessly in the dank drizzle.
So the classics went down before the monks. The ancients were set a-trudging through the world
in a monk's cowl and a friar's frock. On the same page from which Cicero had thundered, a monk
now discoursed. Where Livy's pictured narrative had been, you found only a dull wearisome legend.
Where the thunder of Homer's lyre or the sweet notes of Virgil's muse had resounded, you heard
now a dismal croak or a lugubrious chant. Such was the strange metamorphosis which the ancients
were compelled to endure at the hands of the' monks; and such was the way in which they strove
to earn the gratitude of succeeding ages by the benefits they conferred on learning.

It gives us pleasure to say that Cardinal Mai was amongst the most distinguished of those who
undertook the task of setting free the imprisoned ancients,--of stripping them of the monk's
hood and the friar's habit, and presenting them to the world in their own form. He laboured
in the Biblioteca Ambrosiana, and succeeded in exhuming from darkness and dust the treasures
which neglect and superstition had buried there. In the number of the works which the monks
had palimpsested, and which Mai rescued from destruction, we may cite some fragments of Homer,
with a great number of paintings equally ancient, and of which the subjects are taken from
the works of this great poet; the unpublished writings of Cornelius Fronto; the unpublished
letters of Antoninus Pius, of Marcus Aurelius, of Lucius Verus, and of Appian; some fragments
of discourses of Aurelius Symmachus; the Roman Antiquities of Dionysius of Halicarnassus, which
were up to that time imperfect; unpublished fragments of Plautus, of Isæus, of Themistius;
an unpublished work of the philosopher Porphyrius; some writings of the Jew Philo; the ancient
interpreters of Virgil; two books of the Chronicles of Eusebius Pamphilus; the VI. and XIV.
Sibylline Books; and the six books of the Republic of Cicero. I saw, too, in the Biblioteca
Ambrosiana, fragments of the version of the Bible made in the middle of the fourth century,
by Ulfila, bishop of the Mæsogoths. The labours of the bishop underwent a strange dispersion.
The gospels are at Upsala; the epistles were found at Wolfenbuttel; while a portion of the
Acts of the Apostles and of the Old Testament were extracted from the palimpsests. The original
writing--the superincumbent rubbish being removed--looked out in a bold, well defined character,
in as fresh a black, in some places, as when newly written; in others, in a dim, rusty colour,
which a practised eye only could decipher. Thus the war against knowledge has gone on. The
Caliph Omer burnt the Alexandrine library. Next came the little busy creatures the monks, who,
mothlike, ate up the ancient manuscripts. Last of all appeared the Pope, with his Index Expurgatorius,
to put under lock and key what the Caliph had spared, and the monks had not been able to devour.
The torch, the sponge, the anathema, have been tried each in its turn. Still the light spreads.

I cannot enter on the other curious manuscripts which this library contains; nor have I anything
to say of the numerous beautiful portraits and pictures with which its walls are adorned. The
Cenacolo, or "Last Supper," by Leonardo da Vinci, in the refectory of the Dominican convent,
is fast perishing. It has not yet "lost all its original brightness," and is mightier in its
decay than most other pictures are in the bloom and vigour of their youth. I recollect the
great Scottish painter Harvey saying to me, that he was more affected by "that ruin," than
he was by all the other works of art which he saw in Italy. The grandeur of the central head
has never been approached in any copy. One thing I regret,--I did not visit the Sant' Ambrogio,
and so missed seeing the famous brazen serpent which is to hiss just before the world comes
to an end. This serpent is the same that Moses made in the wilderness, and which Hezekiah afterwards
brake in pieces: at least it would be heresy in Milan not to believe this. It must be comfortable
to a busy age, which has so many things to think of without troubling itself about how or when
the world is to end, to know that, if it must end, due warning will be given of that catastrophe.
The vineyards of Lombardy are good, and monks, like other men, occasionally get thirsty; and
it might spoil the good fathers' digestion were the brazen serpent of Sant' Ambrogio to hiss
after dinner. But doubtless it will be discreet on this head. There is said to be in some one
of the graveyards of Orkney, a tombstone on which an angel may be seen blowing a great trumpet
with all his might, while the dead man below is made to say, "When I hear this, I will rise."
The stone-trumpet will be heard to blow, we daresay, about the same time that the serpent of
Sant' Ambrogio will be heard to hiss.

I was now to bid farewell to Milan, and turn my face towards the blue Adriatic. But one unpleasant
preliminary must first be gone through. The police had opened the gates of Milan to admit me,
and the same authorities must open them for my departure. I walked to the passport office,
where the officials received me with great politeness, and bade me be seated while my passport
was being got ready. This interesting process was only a few minutes in doing; and, on payment
of the customary fee, was handed me "all right" for Venice, bating the innumerable intermediate
inspections and visés by the way; for a passport, like a chronometer, must be continually compared
with the meridian, and put right. I put my passport into my pocket; but on opening it afterwards,
I got a surprise. Its pages were getting covered all over with little creatures with wings,
and, as my fancy suggested, with stings,--the black eagles of Austria. How was I to carry in
my pocket such a cage of imps? How was I to sleep at night in their company? Should they take
it into their head to creep out of my book, and buzz round my bed, would it not give me unpleasant
dreams? And yet part with them I could not. These black, impish creatures must be my pioneers
to Venice.

I now made haste to take my last look of the several objects which had endeared themselves
to me during my short stay. I felt towards them as friends,--long known and beloved friends;
and never should I turn and look on the track of my past existence without seeing their forms
of beauty, dim and indistinct, it might be, as the haze of lapsed time should gather over them;
still, always visible,--never altogether blotted out. I walked round the Cathedral for the
last time. There it stood,--beauty, like an eternal halo, sitting rainbow-like upon its towers
and pinnacles. Its thousand statues and cherubs stood silent and entranced, tranquil as ever,
all unmoved by the city's din, reminding one of dwellers in some region of deep and unbroken
bliss. "Glorious pile!" said I, apostrophizing it, "I am but a pilgrim, a shadow; so are all
who now look on thee,--shadows. But you will continue to delight the ages to come, as you have
done those that are past." I had a run, too, to the Piazza di Armi, to see Beauty incarnate,
if I may so express myself, in the form of the Arco della Pace. It is a gem, the brightest
of its kind that earth contains. The faultless grace of its form is finely set off by the overwhelming
Alpine masses in the distance, which seemed as if raised on purpose to defend it, and which
rise, piled one above another, in furrowed, jagged, unchiselled, fearful sublimity.

I came round by the boulevard of the Porte Orientale, on my way back to the city. It is a noble
promenade. Above are the boughs of the over-arching elms; on this hand are the city domes and
cathedral spires, with their sweet chimes continually falling on the ear; and on that are the
suburban gardens, with the poplars and campaniles rising in stately grace beyond. The glorious
perspective is terminated by the Alps. As the breezes from their flashing summits stirred the
leaves overhead, they seemed to speak of liberty. I wonder the Croat don't impose silence on
them. What right have they, by their glowing peaks, and their free play of light and shade,
and their storms, and their far-darting lightnings, to stir the immortal aspirations in man's
bosom? These white hills are great, unconquerable democrats. They will continually be singing
hymns in praise of liberty. Yet why they should, I know not. Milan is deaf. Why preach liberty
to men in chains? Surely the Alps,--the free and joyous Alps,--which scatter corn and wine
from their horn of plenty so unweariedly, have no delight in tormenting the enslaved nations
at their feet. Why do ye not, ye glorious mountains, put on sackcloth, and mourn with the mourning
nations beneath you? How can ye look down on these dungeons, on these groaning victims, on
the tears of so many widows and orphans, and yet wear these robes of beauty, and sing your
song of gladness at sunrise? Or do ye descry from afar the coming of a better era? and is the
glory that mantles your summits the kindling of an inward joy at the prospect of coming freedom?
and are these whisperings of liberty the first utterances of that shout with which you will
welcome the opening of the tomb and the rising of the nations?

The formidable process of loading the diligence was not yet completed. There was a perfect
Mont Blanc of luggage to transfer from the courtyard to the top of the diligence, not in a
hurry, but calmly and deliberately. The articles were to be selected one by one, and put upon
the top, and taken down again, and laid in the courtyard, and put up a second time, and perhaps
a third time; and after repeated attempts and failures, and a reasonable amount of vociferation
and emphatic ejaculations on the part of postilions and commissionaires, the thing was to be
declared completed, and finally roped down, and the great leathern cover drawn over all. Still
the process would be got through before the hour of table d'hote at the Albergo de Reale. I
must needs therefore dine at a restaurant. I betook me to one of these establishments hard
by the diligence office, and took my place at a small table, with its white napery, small bottle
of wine, and roll of Lombardy bread, in the same room with some thirty or so of the merchants
and citizens of Milan. I intimated my wish to dine à la carte; and instantly the waiter placed
the tariff before me, with its list of dishes and prices. I selected what dishes I pleased,
marking, at the same time, what I should have to pay for each. I dined well, having respect
to the journey of two days and a night I was about to begin, and knowing, too, that an Italian
diligence halts only at long intervals. The reckoning, I thought, could be no dubious or difficult
matter. I knew the dishes I had eaten, and I saw the prices affixed, and I concluded that a
simple arithmetical process would infallibly conduct me to the aggregate cost. But when my
bill was handed me (a formality dispensed with in the case of those beside me), I found that
my reckoning and that of "mine host" differed materially. The sum total on his showing was
three times greater than on mine. I was curious to discover the source of this rather startling
discrepancy in so small a sum. I went over again the list of eaten dishes, and once more went
through the simple arithmetical process which gave the sum total of their cost, but with no
difference in the result. It was plain that there was some mysterious quality in the arithmetic,
or some nice distinctions in the cookery, which I had not taken into account, which disturbed
my calculations. I became but the more anxious to have the riddle explained. In my perplexity
I applied to the waiter, who referred me to his master. The day was hot; and boiling, stewing,
and roasting, is hot work; and this may account for the passion into which my simple interrogatory
put "mine host." "It was a just bill, and must be paid." I hinted that I did not impugn its
justice, but simply craved some explanation about its items. Whereupon mine host, becoming
cooler, condescended to inform me that I had not dined exactly according to the carte; that
certain additions had been made to certain dishes; and that it did not become an Englishman
to inquire farther into the matter. If not so satisfactory as might be wished, this defence
was better than I had expected; so, paying my debts to Boniface, I departed, consoling myself
with the reflection, that if I had three times more to pay than my neighbours, having fared
neither better nor worse than they, I had, unlike these poor men, eaten my dinner without fetters
on my hands.

This time the banquette of the diligence, with all its rich views, was bespoke, so I had to
content myself with the interieur. It was roomy, however; there were but four of us, and its
window admitted, I found, ample views of meadow and mountain. We drove to the station of the
Venice railway, pleasantly situated amid orchards and extra-mural albergos. The horses were
taken out, and the immense vehicle was lifted up,--wheels, baggage, passengers and all,--and
put upon a truck. Away went the long line of carriages,--away went the diligence, standing
up like a huge leathern castle upon its truck; while the engine whistled, snorted, screeched,
groaned, and uttered all sorts of irreverent and every-day sounds, just as if the Alps had
not been looking down upon it, and classic towns ever and anon starting up beside its path:
a glorious vision of fresh meadows, bordered with little canals, brimful of water, and barred
with the long shadows of campanile and sycamore,--for the sun was westering,--shot past us.
The Alps came on with more slow and majestic pace. As peak after peak passed by, it seemed
as if the whole community of hills had commenced a general march on Monte Viso, with all their
crags, glaciers, and pine-forests. One might have thought that Sovran Blanc had summoned the
nobles and high princes of his kingdom to meet him in his hall of audience, to debate some
weighty point of Alpine government. An august assembly as ever graced monarch's court, in their
robes of white and their cornets of eternal ice, would these tall and proud forms present.

Treviglio, beyond which the railway has not yet been opened, was reached in less than two hours.
When near the town, the vast mirror of the blue Como, spread out amid the dark overhanging
mountains, burst upon us. From it flowed forth the Adda, which we crossed. As its mighty stream,
burning in the sunset, rolled along, it spangled with glory the green plain, as the milky-way
the firmament. There is nothing in nature like these Alpine rivers. They fill their banks with
such a wasteful prodigality of water, and they go on their way with a conscious might, as if
they felt that behind them is an eternally exhaustless source. Let the sun smite them with
his fiercest ray; they dread him not. Others may shrink and dry up under his beam: their fountains
are the snows of a thousand winters.

On reaching the station, our diligence,--including passengers, and all that pertained to them,--was
lifted from its truck and put on wheels, and once more stood ready to move, in virtue of its
own inherent power, that is, so soon as the horses should be attached. This operation was performed
in the calm eve, amid the glancing casements of the little town, on which the purple hills
and the tall silent poplars looked complacently down.

Away we rumbled, the declining light still resting sweetly on the woods and hamlets. There
are no postilions in the world, I believe, who can handle their whip like those of Italy. In
very pride and joy our postilion cracked his whip, till the woods rang again. He took a peculiar
delight in startling the echoes of the old villages, and the ears of the old villagers. Each
report was like that of a twelve-pounder. This continual thunder, kept up above their heads,
did not in the least affright the horses: they rather seemed proud of a master who could handle
his whip in so workmanlike a fashion. He could so time the strokes as to make not much worse
melody than that of some music-bells I have heard. He could play a tune on his whip.

We passed, as the evening thickened its shadows, several ancient borgos. Gray they were, and
drowsy, as if the sleep of a century weighed them down. They seemed to love the quiet, dying
light of eve; and as they drew its soft mantle around them, they appeared most willing to forget
a world which had forgotten them. They had not always led so quiet a life. Their youth had
been passed amid the bustle of commerce; their manhood amid the alarms and rude shocks of war;
and now, in their old age, they bore plainly the marks of the many shrewd brushes they had
had to sustain when young. The houses were tall and roomy, and their architecture of a most
substantial kind; but they had come to know strange tenants, that is, those of them that had
tenants, for not a few seemed empty. At the doors of others, dark withered faces looked out,
as if wondering at the unusual din. I felt as if it were cruel to rouse these quiet slumber-loving
towns, by dragging through their streets so noisy a vehicle as a diligence.

We passed Caravaggio, famous as the birthplace of the two great painters who have both taken
their name from their city,--the Caravacchi. We passed, too, the little Mozonnica, that is,
all of it which the calamities of the middle ages have left. Darkness then fell upon us,--if
a firmament begemmed with large lustrous stars could be called dark. The night wore on, varied
only by two events of moment. The first was supper, for which we halted at about eleven o'clock,
in the town of Chiari. At eleven at night people should think of sleeping,--not of eating.
Not so in Italy, where supper is still the meal of the day. An Italian diligence never breakfasts,
unless a small cup of coffee, hurriedly snatched while the horses are being put to, can be
called such. Sometimes it does not even dine; but it never omits to sup. The supper chamber
in Chiari was most sumptuously laid out,--vermicelli soup, flesh, fowls, cheese, pastry, wine,--every
viand, in short, that could tempt the appetite. But at midnight I refused to be tempted, though
most of the other guests partook abundantly. I was much struck, on leaving the town, with the
massive architecture of the houses, the strength of the gates, and other monuments of former
greatness. Imagine Edinburgh grown old and half-ruined, and you have a picture of the towns
of Italy, which was a land of elegant stone-built cities at a time when the capitals of northern
Europe were little better than collections of wooden sheds half-buried in mire.

There followed a long ride. Sleep, benignant goddess, looked in upon us, and helped to shorten
the way. What surprised me not a little was, how soundly my companions snoozed, considering
how they had supped. The stages passed slowly and wearily. At length there came a long, a very
long halt. I roused myself, and stepped out. I was in a spacious street, with the cold biting
wind blowing through it. The horses were away; the postilions had disappeared; some of the
passengers were perambulating the pavement, and the rest were fast asleep in the diligence,
which stood on the causeway, like a stranded vessel on the beach. On consulting my watch, I
found it was three in the morning, and in answer to my inquiries I was told that I was in Brescia,--a
famous city; but I should have preferred to visit it at a more seasonable hour. "The best feelings,"
says the poet, "must have victual," and the most classic towns must have sleep; so Brescia,
forgetful that famous geographers who lived well-nigh two thousand years ago had mentioned
its name, and that famous poets had sung its streams, and that it still contains innumerable
relics of its high antiquity, slept on much as a Scotch village would have done at the same hour.

Time is of no value on the south of the Alps. This long halt at this unseasonable hour was
simply to set down an honest woman who had come with us from Milan. She was as big well-nigh
as the diligence itself; but what caused all our trouble was, not herself, but her trunk. It
lay at the bottom of an immense pile of baggage, which rose on the top of the vehicle; and
before it could be got at, every article had to be taken down, and put on the pavement. Of
course, the baggage had to be put back, and the operation was gone through most deliberately
and leisurely. A full hour and a half was consumed in the process; and the passengers, having
no place to retire to, did their best to withstand the chill night air by a quick march on
the street.

So, these silent midnight streets I was treading were those of Brescia,--Brescia, within whose
walls had met the valour of the mountains and the arts of the plain. I was now treading where
pagan temples had once stood, where Christian sanctuaries had next arisen, and where there
had been disciples not a few when the light of the Reformation broke on northern Italy. I remembered,
too, that this was the city of "Arnold of Brescia," one of the reformers before the Reformation.
Arnold was a man of great learning, an intrepid champion of the Church's purity, and the founder
of the "Arnoldists," who inherited the zeal and intrepidity of their master.

On the death of Innocent II., in the middle of the twelfth century, Arnold, finding Rome much
agitated from the contests between the Pope and the Emperor, urged the Romans to throw off
the yoke of a priest, and strike for their independence. The Romans lacked spirit to do so;
and when, seven centuries afterwards, they came to make the attempt under Pius IX., they failed.
Arnold was taken and crucified, his body reduced to ashes, and it was left to time, with its
tragedies, to vindicate the wisdom of his advice, and avenge his blood; but to this hour no
such opportunity of freeing themselves from thraldom as that which the Brescians then missed
has presented itself.

                   "Time flows,--nor winds,
 Nor stagnates, nor precipitates his course;
 But many a benefit borne upon his breast
 For human-kind sinks out of sight, is gone,
 No one knows how; nor seldom is put forth
 An angry arm that snatches good away,
 Never perhaps to re-appear."

CHAPTER XII.

THE PRESENT THE IMAGE OF THE PAST.

     Failure of the Reformation in Italy--Causes of this--Italian
     Martyrs--Their great Numbers--Consequences of rejecting the
     Reformation--The Present the Avenger of the Past--Extract from
     the Siècle to this Effect--An "Accepted Time" for
     Nations--Alternative offered to the several European Nations in the
     Sixteenth Century--According to their Choice then, so is their
     Position now--Protestant and Popish Nations contrasted.

Of the singular interest that attaches to Italy during the first days of the Reformation I
need not speak. The efforts of the Italians to throw off the papal yoke were great, but unsuccessful.
Why these efforts came to nought would form a difficult but instructive subject of inquiry.
They failed, perhaps, partly from being made so near the centre of the Roman power,--partly
from the want of union and comprehension in the plans of the Italian reformers,--partly by
reason of the dependence of the petty princes of the country upon the Pope,--and partly because
the great sovereigns of Europe, although not unwilling that the Papacy should be weakened in
their own country, by no means wished its extinction in Italy. But though Italy did not reach
the goal of religious freedom, the roll of her martyrs includes the names of statesmen, scholars,
nobles, priests, and citizens of all ranks. From the Alps to Sicily there was not a province
in which there were not adherents of the doctrines of the Reformation, nor a city of any note
in which there was not a little church, nor a man of genius or learning who was not friendly
to the movement. There was scarce a prison whose walls did not immure some disciple of the
Lord Jesus; and scarce a public square which did not reflect the gloomy light of the martyr's
pile. Much has been done, by mutilating the public records, to consign these events to oblivion,
and the names of many of the martyrs have been irretrievably lost; still enough remains to
show that the doctrines of the Reformation were then widely spread, and that the numbers who
suffered for them in Italy were great. Need I mention the names of Milan, of Vicenza, of Verona,
of Venice, of Padua, of Ferrara,--one of the brightest in this constellation,--of Bologna,
of Florence, of Sienna, of Rome? Most of these cities are renowned in the classic annals; all
of them shared in the wealth and independence which the commerce of the middle ages conferred
on the Italian republics; all of them figure in the revival of letters in the fifteenth century;
but they are encompassed by a holier and yet more unfading halo, as the spots where the Italian
reformers lived,--where they preached the blessed truths of the Bible to their countrymen,--and
where they sealed their testimony with their blood. "During the whole of this century," that
is, the sixteenth, says Dr M'Crie, in his "Progress and Suppression of the Reformation in Italy,"
"the prisons of the Inquisition in Italy, and particularly at Rome, were filled with victims,
including persons of noble birth, male and female, men of letters, and mechanics. Multitudes
were condemned to penance, to the galleys, or other arbitrary punishments; and from time to
time individuals were put to death." That large city cannot furnish jails for the number of
pious persons which are continually apprehended.'"

I had time to ruminate on these things as I paced to and fro in the empty midnight streets
of Brescia. Yes; God has judged, and is avenging; and the doom takes the very form that the
crime wore. An era of dungeons, and chains, and victims, has again come round to Italy; but
this time it is "the men which dwell on the" papal "earth" that are suffering. When the Italians
permitted Arnold, and thousands such as he, to be put to death, they were just opening the
way for the wrath of the Papacy to reach themselves, which it has now done. Ah! little do those
who gnash their teeth in the extremity of their torments, and curse the priests as the authors
of these, reflect that their own and their fathers' wickedness, still unrepented of, has not
less to do with their present miseries than the priestly tyranny which they so bitterly and
justly execrate. In those ages these men were the tools of the priesthood; in this they are
its victims. Thus it is that the Present, in papal Europe, and especially in Italy, rises stamped
with the likeness of the Past. The Siècle of Paris, while the Siècle was yet free, brought
out this fact admirably, when it reminded the champions of Popery that the horrors of the first
French Revolution were not new things, but old, which the Jacobins inherited from the Papists;
and went on to ask them "if they have forgotten that the Convention found all the laws of the
Terror written upon the past? The Committee of Public Safety was first contrived for the benefit
of the monarchy. Were not the commissions called revolutionary tribunals first used against
the Protestants? The drums which Santerre beat round the scaffolds of royalists followed a
practice first adopted to drown the psalms of the reformed pastors. Were not the fusilades
first used at the bidding of the priests to crush heresy? Did not the law of the suspected
compel Protestants to nourish soldiers in their houses, as a punishment for refusing to go
to mass? Were not the houses burned down of those who frequented Protestant preaching? Were
not the properties of the Protestant emigrants confiscated? Did not the Marshal Nouilles order
a war against bankers? Was not the law of the maximum, which regulated prices, practised by
the regency? Was not the law of requisition for the public roads practised to prepare the roads
for Queen Marie Leczinska? It is true, many priests perished in the Terror, but they were men
of terror perishing by terror,--men of the sword perishing by the sword."

I could not help feeling, too, when reflecting upon the state of Brescia, and of all the towns
of Italy, and, indeed, of all the countries of Europe, that to nations, as well as individuals,
there is "an accepted time" and a "day of salvation," which if they miss, they irremediably
perish. If they enter not in when the door is open, it is in vain that they knock when it is shut.

The sixteenth century started the European nations in a new career, and put it in the power
of each to choose the principle of will or authority,--the compendious principle according
to which both Church and State were governed under the Papacy, or that of law,--expressing
not the will of one man, but the collective reason of the nation,--the distinctive principle
of government under Protestantism. The century in question placed government by the canon law
or government by the Bible side by side, and invited the nations of Europe to make their choice.
The nations made their choice. Some ranged themselves on this side, some on that; and the sixteenth
century saw them standing abreast, like competitors at the ancient Olympic games, ready, on
the signal being given, to dart forward in the race for victory.

They did not stand abreast, be it observed. The several competitors in this high race did not
start on equally advantageous terms. The rich and powerful nations declared for Popery and
arbitrary government; the weak and third-rate ones, for Protestantism. On one side stood Spain,
then at the head of Europe,--rich in arts, in military glory, in the genius and chivalry of
its people, in the resources of its soil, and mistress, besides, of splendid colonies. By her
side stood France,--the equal of Spain in art, in civilization, in military genius, and inferior
only to her proud neighbour in the single article of colonies. Austria came next, and then
Italy. Such were the illustrious names ranged on the one side. All of them were powerful, opulent,
highly civilized; and some of them cherished the recollections of imperishable renown, which
is a mighty power in itself. We have no such names to recount on the other side. Those nations
which entered the lists against the others were but second and third-rate Powers: Britain,
which scarce possessed a foot-breadth of territory beyond her own island,--Holland, a country
torn from the waves,--the Netherlands and Prussia, neither of which were of much consideration.
In every particular the Protestant nations were inferior to the Papal nations, save in the
single article of their Protestantism: nevertheless, that one quality has been sufficient to
counterbalance, and far more than counterbalance, all the advantages possessed by the others.
Since the day we speak of, what a different career has been that of these nations! Three centuries
have sufficed to reverse their position. Civilization, glory, extent of territory, and material
wealth, have all passed over from the one side to the other. Of the Protestant nations, Britain
alone is more powerful than the whole of combined Europe in the sixteenth century.

But, what is remarkable also, we find the various nations of Europe at this hour on the same
side on which they ranged themselves in the sixteenth century. Those that neglected the opportunity
which that century brought them of adopting Protestantism and a free government are to this
day despotic. France has submitted to three bloody revolutions, in the hope of recovering what
she criminally missed in the sixteenth century; but her tears and her blood have been shed
in vain. The course of Spain, and that of the Italian States, have been not unsimilar. They
have plunged into revolutions in quest of liberty, but have found only a deeper despotism.
They have dethroned kings, proclaimed new constitutions, brought statesmen and citizens by
thousands to the block; they have agonized and bled; but they have been unable to reverse their
fatal choice at the Reformation.

CHAPTER XIII.

SCENERY OF LAKE GARDA--PESCHIERA--VERONA.

     Lake Garda--Memories of Trent--The Council of Trent fixed the
     Destiny as well as Creed of Rome--Questions for Infallibility--Why
     should Infallibility have to grope its Way?--Why does it reveal
     Truth piecemeal?--Why does it need Assessors?--The Immaculate
     Conception--Town of Desenzano--Magnificent Bullocks--Land of
     Virgil--Grandeur of Lake Garda--The Iron Peschiera--The Cypress
     Tree--Verona--Imposing Appearance of its Exterior--Richness and
     Beauty of surrounding Plains--Palmerston.

When the morning broke we were skirting the base of the Tyrolese Alps. I could see masses of
snow on some of the summits, from which a piercingly cold air came rushing down upon the plains.
In a little the sun rose; and thankful we were for his warmth. Day was again abroad on the
waters and the hills; and soon we forgot the night, with all its untoward occurrences. The
face of the country was uneven; and we kept alternately winding and climbing among the spurs
of the Alps. At length the magnificent expanse of Lake Garda, the Benacus of the ancients,
opened before us. In breadth it was like an arm of the sea. There were one or two tall-masted
ships on its waters; there were fine mountains on its northern shore; and on the east the conspicuous
form of Monte Baldo leaned over it, as if looking at its own shadow in the lake. With the Lago
di Garda came the memories of Trent; for at the distance of twenty miles or so from its northern
shore is "the little town among the mountains," where the famous Council assembled, in which
so many things were voted to be true which had been open questions till then, but to doubt
which now were certain and eternal anathema.

The Reformation addressed to Rome the last call to reconsider her position, and change her
course while yet it was possible. It said to her, in effect, Repent now: to-morrow it will
be too late. Rome gave her reply when she summoned the Council of Trent. That Council crystallized,
so to speak, the various doubtful opinions and dogmas which had been floating about in solution,
and fixed the creed of Rome. It did more,--it fixed her doom. Amid these mountains she issued
the fiat of her fate. When she published the proceedings of Trent to the world, she said, "Here
I stand; I cannot do otherwise; so help me----." To whom did she make her appeal? To the Emperor
in the first place, when she prayed for the vengeance of the civil sword; and to the Prince
of Darkness in the second, when she invoked damnation on all her opponents. Then her course
was irrevocably fixed. She dare not now look behind her: to change a single iota were annihilation.
She must go forward, amid accumulating errors, and absurdities, and blasphemies: amid opposing
arts and sciences, and knowledge, she must go steadily onward,--onward to the precipice!

It is interesting to mark, as we can in history, first, the feeble germinations of a papal
dogma; next, its waxing growth; and at last, after the lapse of centuries, its full development
and maturity. It is easy to conceive how a mere human science should advance only by slow and
gradual stages,--astronomy, for instance, or geology, or even the more practical science of
mechanics. Their authors have no infallible gift of discerning truth from error. They must
observe nature; they must compare facts; they must deduce conclusions; they must correct previous
errors; and this is both a slow and a laborious process. But Infallibility is saved all this
labour. It knows at once, and from the beginning, all that is true, and all that is erroneous.
It does so, or it is not Infallibility. Why, then, was it not till the sixteenth century that
Infallibility gave anything like a fixed and complete creed to the Church? Why did it permit
so many men, in all preceding ages, to live in ignorance of so many things in which it could
so easily have enlightened them? Why did it permit so many questions to be debated, which it
could so easily have settled? Why did it not give that creed to the Church in the first century
which it kept back till the sixteenth? Why does it deal out truth piecemeal,--one dogma in
this century, another in the next, and so on? Why does it not tell us all at once? And why,
even to this hour, has it not told us all, but reserved some very important questions for future
decision, or revelation rather?

If it is replied that the Pope must first collect the suffrages of the Catholic bishops, this
only lands us in deeper perplexities. Why should the Pope need assessors and advisers? Can
Infallibility not walk alone, that it uses crutches? Can an infallible man not know truth from
error till first he has collected the votes of fallible bishops? Why should Infallibility seek
help, which it cannot in the nature of things need?

If it is further replied, that this Infallibility is lodged betwixt the Pope and the Council,
we are only confronted with greater difficulties. Is it when the decree has been voted by the
Council that it becomes infallible? Then the Infallibility resides in the Council. Or is it
when it is confirmed by the Pope that it becomes infallible? In that case the Infallibility
is in the Pope. Or is it, as others maintain, only when the decree has been accepted by the
Church that it is infallible, and does the Pope not know whether he ought to believe his own
decree till he has heard the judgment of the Church? We had thought that Infallibility was
one and indivisible; but it seems it may be parted in twain; nay, more, it may be broken down
into an indefinite number of parts; and though no one of these parts taken separately is Infallibility,
yet taken together they constitute Infallibility. In other words, the union of a number of
finite quantities can make an infinite. Sound philosophy, truly!

If we go back, then, as the Ultramontanist will, to the dogma that the seat of Infallibility
is the chair of Peter, the question returns, why cannot, or will not, the Pope determine in
one age what he is able and willing to determine in another? The dogma of the Immaculate Conception
of the Virgin, for instance, if it is a truth now, was a truth in the first age, when it was
not even dreamed of; it was a truth in the twelfth century, when it was dreamed of; it was
a truth in the seventeenth century, when it gave rise to so many scandalous divisions and conflicts;
and yet it was not till December 1854 that Infallibility pronounced it to be a truth, and so
momentous a truth, that no one can be saved who doubts it. Will any Romanist kindly explain
this to us? We can accept no excuses about the variety of opinion in the Church, or about the
darkness of the age. No haze, no clouds, can dim an infallible eye. Infallibility should see
in the dark as well as in the daylight; and an infallible teacher is bound to reveal all, as
well as to know all.

And how happens it, too, that the Pope is infallible in only one science,--even the theological?
In astronomy he has made some terrible blunders. In geography he has taken the earth to be
a plain. In politics, in trade, and in all ordinary matters, he is daily falling into mistakes.
He cannot tell how the wind may blow to-morrow. He cannot tell whether the dish before him
may not have poison in it. And yet the man who is daily and hourly falling into mistakes on
the most common subjects has only to pronounce dogmatically, and he pronounces infallibly.
He has but to grasp the pen, with a hand, it may be, like Borgia's, fresh from the poisoned
chalice or the stiletto, and straightway he indites lines as holy and pure as ever flowed from
the pen of a Paul or a John!

The road now led down upon the lake, which lay gleaming like a sheet of silver beneath the
morning sun. We entered the poor, faded, straggling town of Desenzano, where the usual motley
assemblage of commissionaires, albergo-masters, dwarfs, beggars, and idlers of all kinds, waited
to receive us. The poor old town crept close in to the strand, as if a draught of the crystal
waters would make it young again. It reminded me of the company of halt, blind, and impotent
folk which lay at the pool of Bethesda. So lay paralytic Desenzano by the shores of the Lake
Garda. Alas! sunshine and storm pass across the scene, clothing the waters and the hills with
alternate beauty and grandeur; but all changes come alike to the poor, tradeless, bookless,
spiritless town. Whether summer comes in its beauty or winter in its storms, Desenzano is old,
withered, dying Desenzano still. I hurried to an albergo, swallowed a cup of coffee, and rejoined
the diligence.

Our course lay along the southern shore of the lake, over a fine rolling country, richly covered
with vineyards, and where the rich red soil was being ploughed with bullocks. Such bullocks
I had never before seen. The stateliest of their kind which graze the meadows of England and
Scotland are but as grasshoppers in comparison. Truly, I saw before me the Anakims of the cattle
tribe. To them the yoke was no burden. As they marched on with vast outspread horns, they could
have dragged a hundred ploughs after them. They were not unworthy of Virgil's verse. And it
gave additional charms to the region to think that Mantua, the poet's birthplace, lay not a
long way to the south, and that, doubtless, the author of the Bucolics often visited in his
youth this very spot, and walked by the margin of these waters, and marked the light and shade
on these noble hills; or, turning to the rich agricultural country on the right, had seen exactly
such bullocks as those I now saw, drawing exactly such ploughs, and making exactly such furrows
in the red earth; and, spreading the beauty of his own mind over the picture, he had gone and
imprinted it eternally on his page. The true poet is a real clairvoyant. He may not give you
the shape, or colour, or size of objects; he may not tell how tall the mountains, or how long
the hedge-rows, or how broad the fields; but by some wonderful art he can convey to your mind
what is present to his own. On this principle it was, perhaps, that the landscape, with all
its scenery, was familiar to me. I had seen it long years before. These were the very fields,
the very bullocks, the very ploughs, the very swains, my imagination had painted in my schoolboy
days, when I sat with the page of the great pastoral poet of Italy open before me,--too frequently,
alas! only open. On these shores, too, had dwelt the poet Catullus; and a doubtful ruin which
the traveller sees on the point of the long sharp promontory of Sermio, which runs up into
the lake from the south, still bears the name of Catullus' Villa. If these are the ruins of
Catullus' house, which is very questionable, he must have lived in a style of magnificence
which has fallen to the lot of but few poets.

The complexion of a day or of a lifetime may hang upon the commonest occurrence. A shoe here
dropped from the foot of one of the horses; and the postilion, diving into the recesses of
the diligence, and drawing forth a box with the requisite tools, began forthwith, on the highway,
the process of shoeing. I stepped out, and walked on before, thankful for the incident, which
had given me the opportunity of a saunter along the road. You can see nature from the windows
of your carriage, but you can converse with her only by a quiet stroll amidst her scenes. On
the right were the great plains which the Po waters, finely mottled with meadow and corn-field,
besprint with chestnut trees, mulberries, and laurels, and fringed, close by the highway, with
rolling heights, on which grew the vine. On the left was the far expanding lake, with its bays
and creeks, and the shadows of its stately hills mirrored on its surface. It looked as if some
invisible performer was busy shifting the scenes for the traveller's delight, and spreading
a different prospect before his eye at every few yards. New bays were continually opening,
and new peaks rising on the horizon. "It was so rough with tempests when we passed by it,"
says Addison, "that it brought into my mind Virgil's description of it."

 "Here, vexed by winter storms, Benacus raves,
 Confused with working sands and rolling waves;
 Rough and tumultuous, like a sea it lies;
 So loud the tempest roars, so high the billows rise."

I saw it in more peaceful mood. Cool and healthful breezes were blowing from the Tyrol; and
the salubrious character of the region was amply attested by the robust forms of the inhabitants.
I have seldom seen a finer race of men and women than the peasants adjoining the Lake Garda.
They were all of goodly stature, and singularly graceful and noble in their gait.

In a few hours we approached the strong fortress of Peschiera. We passed through several concentric
lines of fortifications, walls, moats, drawbridges, and sloping earthen embankments, in which
cart-loads of balls, impelled with all the force which powder can give, would sink and be lost.
In the very heart of these grim ramparts, like a Swiss hamlet amid its mountain ranges, or
a jewel in its iron-bound casket, lay the little town of Peschiera, sleeping quietly beside
the blue and full-flooded Mincio, Virgil's own river:--

 "Where the slow Mincius through the valley strays;
 Where cooling streams invite the flocks to drink,
 And reeds defend the winding water's brink."

It issues from the lake, and, flowing underneath the ramparts, freshens a spot which otherwise
wears sufficiently the grim iron-visaged features of war. Nothing can surpass the grandeur
of Lake Garda, which here almost touches the walls of the fortress. It lies outspread like
the sea, and runs far up to where the snow-clad summits of the Tyrol prop the northern horizon.

Leaving behind us the iron Peschiera and the blue Garda, we held on our way over an open, breezy
country, where the stony and broken scenery of the mountains began to mingle with the rich
cultivation of the plains. It reminded me of the line where the lowlands of Perthshire join
its highlands. Here the cypress tree met me for the first time. The familiar form of the poplar,--now
too familiar to give pleasure,--disappeared, and in its room came the less stately but more
graceful and beautiful form of the cypress. The cypress is silence personified. It stands wrapt
in its own thoughts. One can hardly see it without asking, "What ails thee? Is it for the past
you mourn?" Yet, pensive as it looks, its unconscious grace fills the landscape with beauty.

Verona, gilded by the beams of Shakspeare's mighty genius, and by the yet purer glory of the
martyrs of the Reformation, was in sight miles before we reached it. It reposes on the long
gentle slope of a low hill, with plenty of air and sunlight. The rich plains at its feet, which
stretch away to the south, look up to the old town with evident affection and pride, and strive
to cheer it by pouring wheat, and wine, and fruits into its markets. Its appearance at a distance
is imposing, from its numerous towers, and the long sweep of its forked battlements, which
seem to encircle the whole acclivity on which the town stands, leaving as much empty space
within their lines as might contain half-a-dozen Veronas. Its environs are enchanting. Behind
it, and partly encircling it on the east, are an innumerable array of low hills, of the true
Italian shape and colour. These were all a-gleam with white villas; and as they sparkled in
the sunlight, relieved against the deep azure of the mountains, they showed like white sails
on the blue sea, or stars in the dark sky. At its gates we were met, of course, by the Austrian
gendarmerie. To have the affair of the passport finished and over as quickly as possible, I
unfolded the sheet, and carelessly hung it over the window of the carriage. The corner of the
paper, which bore, in tall, bold characters, the name of her Majesty's Foreign Secretary, caught
the eye of a passenger. "PALMERSTON!" "PALMERSTON!" he shouted aloud. Instantly there was a
general rush at the document; and fearing that it should be torn in pieces, which would have
been an awkward affair for me, seeing without it it would be impossible to get forward, and
nearly as impossible to get back, I surrendered it to the first speaker, that it might be passed
round, and all might gratify their curiosity or idolatry with the sight of a name which abroad
is but a synonym for "England." After making the tour of the diligence, the passport was handed
out to the gendarme, who, feeling no such intense desire as did the passengers to see the famous
characters, had waited good-naturedly all the while. The man surveyed with grim complacency
a name which was then in no pleasant odour with the statesmen and functionaries of Austria.
In return he gave me a paper containing "permission to sojourn for a few hours in Verona,"
with its co-relative "permission to depart." I felt proud of my country, which could as effectually
protect me at the gates of Verona as on the shores of the Forth.

CHAPTER XIV.

FROM VERONA TO VENICE.

     Interior of Verona--End of World seemingly near in Italy--The Monks
     and the Classics--A Cast-Iron Revolutionist--A Beautiful
     Glimpse--Railway Carriages--Railway Company--Tyrolese Alps--Dante's
     Patmos--Vicenza--Padua--The Lagunes--The Omnibus or
     Gondola--Silence of City--Sail through the Canals--Charon and his
     Boat--Piazza of Saint Mark.

The gates of Verona opened, and the enchantment was gone. He who would carry away the idea
of a magnificent city, which the exterior of Verona suggests, must go round it, not through
it. The first step within its walls is like the stroke of an enchanter's wand. The villa-begemmed
city, with its ramparts and its cypress-trees, takes flight, and there rises before the traveller
an old ruinous town, with dirty streets and a ragged and lazy population. It reminds one of
what he meets in tales of eastern romance, where young and beautiful princesses are all at
once transformed by malignant genuises into old and withered hags.

In truth, on entering an Italian town one feels as if the last trumpet were about to sound.
The world, and all that is in it, seems old--very old. Man is old, his dwellings are old, his
works are old, and the very earth seems old. All seems to betoken that it is the last age,
and that the world is winding up its business, preparatory to the final closing of the drama.
Commerce, the arts, empire,--all have taken their departure, and have left behind only the
vestiges of their former presence. The Italians, living in a land which is but a sort of sepulchre,
look as if they had voted that the world cannot outlast the present century, and that it is
but a waste of labour to rebuild anything or repair anything. Accordingly, all is allowed to
go to decay,--roads, bridges, castles, palaces; and the only thing which is in any degree cared
for are their churches. Why make provision for posterity, when there is to be none? Why erect
new houses, when those already built will last their time and the world's? Why repair their
mouldering dwellings, or renew the falling fences of their fields, or replace their dying olives
with young trees, or even patch their own ragged garments? The crack of doom will soon be upon
them, and all will perish in the great conflagration. They account it the part of wisdom, then,
to pass the interval in the least fatiguing and most agreeable manner possible. They sip their
coffee, and take their stroll, and watch the shadows as they fall eastward from their purple
hills. Why should they incur the toil of labouring or thinking in a world that is soon to pass
away, and which is as good as ended already?

Of Verona I can say but little. My stay there, which was not much over the hour, afforded me
no opportunity for observation. Its famous Amphitheatre, coeval with the great Coliseum at
Rome, and the best preserved Roman Amphitheatre in the world, I had not time to visit. Its
numerous churches, with their frescoes and paintings, I less regret not having seen. Its Biblioteca
Capitolare, which is said to be an unwrought quarry of historic and patristic lore, I should
have liked to visit. There, too, the monks of the middle ages were caught tripping. "Sophocles
or Tacitus," in the words of Gibbon, "had been compelled to resign the parchment to missals,
homilies, and the golden legend." The "Institutes of Caius," which were the foundation of the
Institutes of Justinian, were discovered in this library palimpsested. A rumour had been spread
that the author of the Pandects had reduced the "Institutes of Caius" to ashes, that posterity
might not discover the source of his own great work. Gibbon ventured to contradict the scandal,
and to point to the monks as the probable devastators. His sagacity was justified when Niebuhr
discovered in the Biblioteca Capitolare of Verona these very Institutes beneath the homilies
of St. Jerome. Verona yet retains one grand feature untouched by decay or time,--the river
Adige,--which, passing underneath the walls, dashes through the city in a magnificent torrent,
spanned by several noble bridges of ancient architecture, and turns in its course several large
floating mills, which are anchored across the stream. The market-place, a large square, was
profusely covered with the produce of the neighbouring plains. I purchased a roll of bread
and a magnificent cluster of grapes, and lunched in fine style.

At Verona the railway resumes, and runs all the way to Venice. What a transition from the diligence--the
lumbering, snail-paced diligence--to the rail. It is like passing by a single leap from the
dark ages to modern times. Then only do you feel what you owe to Watt. In my humble opinion,
the Pope should have put the steam-engine into the Index Expurgatorius. His priests in France
have attended at the opening of railways, and blessed the engines. What! bless the steam-engine!
Sprinkle holy water on the heads of Mazzini and Gavazzi. For what are these engines, but so
many cast-iron Mazzinis and Gavazzis. The Pope should have anathematized the steam-engine.
He should have cursed it after the approved pontifical fashion, in standing and in running,
in watering and in coaling. He should have cursed it in the whole structure of its machinery,--in
its funnel, in its boiler, in its piston, in its cranks, and in its stopcocks. I can see a
hundred things which are sure to be crushed beneath its ponderous wheels. I can see it tearing
ruthlessly onwards, and dashing through prejudices, opinions, usages, and time-honoured and
venerated institutions, and sweeping all away like so many cobwebs. Was the Argus of the Vatican
asleep when this wolf broke into the fold? But in he is, and the Pope's bulls will have enough
to do to drive him out. But more of this anon.

The station of the railway is on the east of the town, in a spot of enchanting loveliness.
It was the first and almost the only spot that realized the Italy of my dreams. It was in a
style of beauty such as I had not before seen, and was perfect in its kind. The low lovely
hills were ranged in crescent form, and were as faultless as if Grace herself had moulded them
on her lathe. Their clothing was a deep rich purple. White villas, like pearls, sparkled upon
them; and they were dotted with the cypress, which stood on their sides in silent, meditative,
ethereal grace. The scene possessed not the sublime grandeur of Switzerland, nor the rugged
picturesqueness of Scotland: its characteristic was the finished, spiritualized, voluptuous
beauty of Italy. But hark! the railway-bell rings out its summons.

The carriages on the Verona and Venice Railway are not those strong-looking, crib-like machines
which we have in England, and which seem built, as our jails and bridewells are, in anticipation
that the inmates will do their best to get out. They are roomy and elegant saloons (though
strong in their build), of about forty feet in length, and may contain two hundred passengers
a-piece. They are fitted up with a tier of cushioned seats running round the carriage, and
two sofa-seats running lengthways in the middle. At each end is a door by which the guard enters
and departs, and passes along the whole train, as if it were a suit of apartments. So far as
I could make out, I was the only Englese in the carriage, which was completely filled with
the citizens and peasantry of the towns and rural districts which lay on our route,--the mountaineer
of the Tyrol, the native of the plain, the inhabitant of the city of Verona, of Vicenza, of
Venice. There was a greater amount of talk, and of vehement and eloquent gesture, than would
have been seen in the same circumstances in England. The costume was varied and picturesque,
and so too, but in a less degree, the countenance. There were in the carriage tall athletic
forms, reared amid the breezes and vines of the Tyrol; and there were noble faces,--faces with
rich complexions, and dark fiery eyes, which could gleam in love or burn in battle, and which
bore the still farther appendage of moustache and beard, in which the wearer evidently took
no little pride, and on which he bestowed no little pains. The company had somewhat the air
of a masquerade. There was the Umbrian cloak, the cone-shaped beaver, the vest with its party-coloured
lacings. There were the long loose robe and low-crowned hat of the priest, with its enormous
brim, as if to shade the workings of his face beneath. There was the brown cloak of the friar;
and there were hats and coats of the ordinary Frank fashion. The Leghorn bonnet is there unknown,
as almost all over the Continent, unless among the young girls of Switzerland; and the head-gear
of the women mostly was a plain cotton napkin, folded on the brow and pinned below the chin,--a
custom positively ugly, which may become a mummy or a shaven head, but not for those who have
ringlets to show. Some with better taste had discarded the napkin, and wore a smart cap. On
the persons of not a few of the females was displayed a considerable amount of value, in the
shape of gold chains, rings, and jewellery. This is an indication, not of wealth, but of poverty
and stagnant trade. It was a custom much in use among oriental ladies before banks were established.

The plains eastward of Verona on the right were amazingly rich, and the uplands and heights
on the left were crowned with fine castles and beautiful little temples. Yet the beauty and
richness of the region could not soothe Dante for his lost Florence. For here was his "Patmos,"
if we may venture on imagery borrowed from the history of a greater seer; and here the visions
of the Purgatorio had passed before his eye. After a few hours' riding, the fine hills of the
Tyrolese Alps came quite up to us, disclosing, as they filed past, a continuous succession
of charming views. When the twilight began to gather, and they stood in their rich drapery
of purple shadows, their beauty became a thing indescribable. We saw Vicenza, where, of all
the spots in Italy, the Reformation found the largest number of adherents, and where Palladio
arose in the sixteenth century, to arrest for a while, by his genius, the decay of the architectural
arts in Italy. We saw, too, the gray Padua looking at us through the sombre shadows of its
own and the day's decline. We continued our course over the flat but rich country beyond; and
as night fell we reached the edge of the Lagunes.

I looked out into the watery waste with the aid of the faint light, but I could see no city,
and nothing whereon a city could stand. All was sea; and it seemed idle to seek a city, or
any habitation of man, in the midst of these waters. But the engine with its great red eye
could see farther into the dark; and it dashed fearlessly forward, and entered on the long
bridge which I saw stretching on and away over the flood, till its farther end, like that of
the bridge which Mirza saw in vision, was lost in a cloud. I could see, as we rode on, on the
bosom of the flood beneath us, twinkling lights, which were probably lighthouses, and black
dots, which we took for boats. After a five miles' run through scenery of this novel character,
the train stopped, and we found that we had arrived, not in a cloud or in a quicksand, as there
seemed some reason to fear, but in a spacious and elegant station, brilliantly lighted with
gas, and reminding one, from its sudden apparition and its strange site, of the fabled palace
of the Sicilian Fairy Queen, only not built, like hers, of sunshine and sea-mist. We were marched
in file past, first the tribunal of the searchers, and next the tribunal of the passport officials;
and then an Austrian gendarme opening to each, as he passed this ordeal, the door of the station-house,
I stepped out, to have my first sight, as I hoped, of the Queen of the Adriatic.

I found myself in the midst of the sea, standing on a little platform of land, with a cloudy
mass floating before me, resembling, in the uncertain light, the towers and domes of a spectral
city. It was now for the first time that I realized the peculiar position of Venice. I had
often read of the city whose streets were canals and whose chariots were gondolas; but I had
failed to lay hold of it as a reality, and had unconsciously placed Venice in the region of
fable. There was no missing the fact now. I was hemmed in on all sides by the ocean, and could
not move a step without the certainty of being drowned. What was I to do? In answer to my inquiries,
I was told that I must proceed to my hotel in an omnibus. This sounded of the earth, and I
looked eagerly round to see the desired vehicle; but horses, carriage, wheels, I could see
none. I could no more conceive of an omnibus that could swim on the sea, than the Venetians
could of a gondola that could move on the dry land. I was shown a large gondola, to which the
name of omnibus was given, which lay at the bottom of the stairs waiting for passengers. I
descended into it, and was followed by some thirty more. We were men of various nations and
various tongues, and we took our seats in silence. We pushed off, and were soon gliding along
on the Grand Canal. Not a word was spoken. Although we had been a storming party sent to surprise
an enemy's fort by night, we could not have conducted our proceedings in profounder quiet.
There reigned as unbroken a stillness around us, as if, instead of the midst of a city, we
had been in the solitude of the high seas. No foot-fall re-echoed through that strange abode.
Sound of chariot-wheel there was none. Nothing was audible but the soft dip of the oar, and
the startled shout of an occasional gondolier, who feared, perhaps, that our heavier craft
might send his slim skiff to the bottom. In about a quarter of an hour we turned out of the
Grand Canal, and began threading our way amid those innumerable narrow channels which traverse
Venice in all directions. Then it was that the dismal silence of the city fell upon my heart.
The canals we were now navigating were not over three yards in width. They were long and gloomy;
and tall, massive palaces, sombre and spectral in the gloom, rose out of the sea on either
hand. There were columns at their entrances, with occasional pieces of statuary, for which
time had woven a garland of weeds. Their lower windows were heavily grated; their marble steps
were laved by the idle tide; and their warehouse doors, through which had passed, in their
time, the merchandise of every clime, had long been unopened, and were rotting from age. As
we pursued our way, we passed under low-browed arches, from which uncouth faces, cut in the
stone, looked down upon us, and grinned our welcome. The voice of man, the light of a candle,
the sound of a millstone, was not there. It seemed a city of the dead. The inhabitants had
lived and died ages ago, and had left their palaces to be tenanted by the mermaids and spirits
of the deep, for other occupants I could see none. Spectral fancies began to haunt my imagination.
I conceived of the canal we were traversing as the Styx, our gondola as the boat of Charon,
and ourselves as a company of ghosts, who had passed from earth, and were now on our silent
way to the inexorable bar of Rhadamanthus. A more spectral procession we could not have made,
with our spectral boat gliding noiselessly through the water, with its spectral steersman,
and its crowd of spectral passengers, though my fancy, instead of being a fancy, had been a
reality. All things around me were sombre, shadowy, silent, as Hades itself.

Suddenly our gondola made a rapid sweep round a tall corner.

We were flung right in front of the great square of St. Mark. It was like the instantaneous
raising of the curtain from some glorious vision, or like the sudden parting of the clouds
around Mont Blanc; or, if I may use such a simile, like the unfolding of the gates of a better
world to the spirit, after passing through the shadows of the tomb. The spacious piazza, bounded
on all sides with noble structures in every style of architecture, reflected the splendour
of a thousand lamps. There was the palace of the Doge, which I knew not as yet; and there,
on its lofty column, was the winged lion of St Mark, which it was impossible not to know; and,
crowding the piazza, and walking to and fro on its marble floor, was a countless multitude
of men in all the costumes of the world. With the deep hum of voices was softly blended the
sound of the Italian lute. A few strokes of the oar brought us to the Hotel dell' Europa. I
made a spring from the gondola, and alighted on the steps of the hotel.

CHAPTER XV.

CITY OF VENICE.

     Sabbath Morning--Beauty of Sunrise on the Adriatic--Worship in S.
     Mark's--Popish Sabbath-schools--Sale of Indulgences for Living and
     Dead--An Astrologer--How the Venetians spend their Sabbath
     Afternoon and Evening--The Martyrs of Venice--A Young Englishman in
     Trouble--The Doge's Palace--The Stone Lions--The Prisons of
     Venice--The Venetians Discard their Old God, and adopt a New--The
     Gothic Tower--The Academy of Fine Arts--The Moral of Venice--Why do
     Nations Die?--Common Theory Unsatisfactory--History hitherto a
     Series of ever-recurring Cycles, ending in
     Barbarism--Instances--The "Three-score and Ten" of Nations--The
     Solution to be sought with reference to the False Religions--The
     Intellect of the Nation outgrows these--Conscience is
     Dissolved--Virtue is Lost--Slavery and Barbarism
     ensue--Christianity only can give Immortality to Nations--Decadence
     of Civilization under Romanism--A Papist foretelling the Doom of
     Popery.

The deep boom of the Austrian cannon awoke me next morning at day-break. I remembered that
it was Sabbath; and never had I seen the Sabbath dawn amidst a silence so majestic. More tranquil
could not have been its first opening in the bowers of Eden. In this city of ocean there was
no sound of hurrying feet, no rattle of chariot-wheel, nor any of those multitudinous noises
that distract the cities of earth. There was silence on the domes of Venice, silence on her
seas, silence in the air around her. In a little the sun rose, and shed a flood of glory on
the Lagunes. It would be difficult to describe the grandeur of the scene, which has nothing
elsewhere of the kind to equal it,--the white marble city, serenely seated on the bosom of
the Adriatic, with the Lagunes outspread in the morning sun like a mirror of molten gold. But,
alas! it was only a glorious vision; for the power and wealth of Venice are departed.

                         "The long file
 Of her dead Doges are declined to dust.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                   Empty halls,
 Thin streets and foreign aspects, such as must
 Too oft remind her who and what enthrals,
 Have flung a desolate cloud o'er Venice' lovely walls."

The gun which had awaked me reminds the Queen of the Adriatic every morning that the day of
her dominion and glory is over, and that the night has come upon her,--a night, the deep unbroken
shadows of which, even the bright morning that was now opening on the Adriatic could not dispel.

After breakfast I hurried to the church of S. Mark. Mass was proceeding as usual; and a large
crowd of worshippers,--spectators I should rather say,--stood densely packed in the chancel.
If I except the Madeleine in Paris, I have nowhere seen in a Roman Catholic church an attendance
at all approximating even a tolerable congregation, save here. I remarked, too, that these
were not the beggars which usually form the larger proportion of the attendance, such as it
is, in Roman churches. The people in S. Mark's were well dressed, though it was not easy to
conceive where these fine clothes had come from, seeing the sea has now failed Venice, and
land she never possessed. This was the first symptom I saw (I met others in the course of the
day) that in Venice the Roman religion has a stronger hold upon the people than in the rest
of Italy. It is an advantage in this respect to be some little distance from Rome, and to have
an insular position. Besides, I believe that the priests in Venetian Lombardy, and, I presume,
in Venice also, are men of more reputable lives than their brethren in other parts of the Peninsula.
Anciently it was not so. Venice was wont to be termed "the paradise of monks." There no pleasure
allowable to a man of the world was forbidden to a priest. The Senate, jealous of everything
that might abridge its authority, encouraged this relaxation of the Church's discipline, in
the hope of lowering the influence of its clergy with the people.

S. Mark's is an ancient, quaint-looking pile, with the dim hoar light of history around it.
On its threshold Pope Alexander III. met the Emperor Frederick in 1177, and, with pride unabated
by his enforced flight from Rome in the disguise of a cook, put his foot upon the monarch's
neck, repeating the words of the psalm,--"Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder." This high
temple of the Adriatic is vast and curious, but wanting in effect, owing to the low roof and
the gloomy light. The Levant was searched for columns and marbles to decorate it; acres of
gold-leaf have been expended in gilding it; and every corner is stuck full of allegorical devices,
some of which are so very ingenious, that they have not yet been read. The priests wore a style
of dress admirably befitting the finery of the Cathedral; for their vestments were bespangled
with gold and curious devices. What a contrast to the simple temple and the plain earnest worshippers
with whom I had passed my former Sabbath amid the Vaudois hills! But the God of the Vaudois,
unlike the wafer-god of the priests, "dwelleth not in temples made with hands."

Passing along on the narrow paved footpaths which tie back to back the long lofty ranges of
the city,--the fronts being filled with the ocean,--I visited several of its one hundred and
twenty churches. I found mass ended, and the congregation, if any such there had been, dismissed;
but I saw what was even more indicative of a reviving superstition: in every church I entered
I found classes of boys and girls under instruction. The Sabbath-school system was in full
operation in Venice, in Rome's behalf. The boys were in charge of the young priests; and the
girls, of the nuns and sisters. In some cases, laymen had been pressed into the service, and
were occupied in unfolding the mysteries of transubstantiation to the young mind. Seating myself
on a bench in presence of a class of boys, I watched the course of instruction. Their text-book
was the "Catechism of Christian Doctrine," which contains the elements of the Roman faith,
as fixed by the Council of Trent. The boys were repeating the Catechism to the teacher. No
explanations were given, for the process was simply that of fixing dogmas in the memory,--of
conveying as much of fact, or what professed to be so, as it was possible to convey into the
mind without awakening the understanding. The boys were taught to believe, not reason; and
those who acquitted themselves best had little medals and pictures of St Francis given them
as prizes. I remarked that most of the shops were shut: indeed, so little business is done
in Venice, that this involved no sacrifice to the traders. As it was, however, the city contrasted
favourably with Paris; than the Sabbaths of which, I know of nothing more terrible on earth.
I remarked, too, that if the trade of the Adriatic is at an end, and beggars crowd the quays
which princes once trod, and gondolas, in funereal black, glide gloomily through those waters
which rich argosies ploughed of old, the spiritual traffic of Venice flourishes more than ever.
I read on the doors of all the churches, "INDULGENCES SOLD HERE FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD,
AS IN ROME." What matters it that the Adriatic is no longer the highway of the world's merchandise,
and that India is now closed to Venice? Is not the whole of Peter's treasury open to her; and,
to facilitate the enriching commerce, have not the priests obligingly opened a direct road
to the celestial mine, to spare the Venetians the necessity of the more circuitous path by
the Seven Hills? Happy Venice! her children may be starved now, but paradise is their's hereafter.

After noon each betook himself to what pastime he pleased. Not a few opened their shops. Others
gathered round an astrologer,--a personage no longer to be seen in the cities of the west,--who
had taken his stand on the Riva degli Schiavoni, and there, begirt with zone inscribed with
cabalistic characters, and holding in his hand his wizard's staff, was setting forth, with
stentorian voice, his marvellous power of healing by the combined help of the stars and his
drugs. By the way, why should the profession of astrology and the cognate arts be permitted
to only one class of men? In the middle ages, two classes of conjurors competed for the public
patronage, but with most unequal success. The one class professed to be master of spells that
were all-powerful over the elements of the material world,--the air, the earth, the ocean.
The other arrogated an equal power over the invisible and spiritual world. They were skilled
in a mysterious rite, which had power to open the gates of purgatory, and dismiss to a happier
abode, souls there immured in woe. The pretensions of both were equally well founded: both
were jugglers, and merited to have fared alike; but society, while it lavished all its credence
and all its patronage upon the one, denounced the other as impostors. One colossal system of
necromancy filled Europe; but the age gave the priest a monopoly; and so jealously did it guard
his rights, that the conjuror who did not wear a cassock was banished or burned. We can assign
no reason for the odium under which the one lay, and the repute in which the other was held,
save that the art, though one, was termed witchcraft in the one case, and religion in the other.
The one was compelled to shroud his mysteries in the darkness of the night, and seek the solitary
cave for the performance of his spells. The arts of the other were performed in magnificent
and costly cathedrals, in presence of admiring assemblies. The latter were the licensed dealers
in magic; and, enjoying the public patronage, they carried their pretensions to a pitch which
their less favoured brethren dared not attempt to rival. They juggled on a gigantic scale,
and the more enormous the cheat, the better was it received. They rapidly grew in numbers and
wealth. Their chief, the great Roman necromancer, enjoyed the state of a temporal prince, and
had a whole kingdom appropriated to his use, that he might suitably support his rank and dignity
as arch-conjuror.

But to return to Venice;--the great stream of concourse flowed in the direction of the Giardini
Pubblici, which are a nook of one of the more southerly islands on which the city stands, fitted
up as a miniature landscape, its lilliputian hills and vales being the only ones the Venetians
ever see. The intercourse betwixt Venice and the Continent has no doubt become more frequent
since the opening of the railway; but formerly it was not uncommon to find persons who had
never been on the land, and who had no notion of ploughs, waggons, carts, gardens, and a hundred
other things that seem quite inseparable from the existence of a nation. Twilight came, walking
with noiseless sandals on the seas. A delicious light mantled the horizon; the domes of the
city stood up with silent sublimity into the sky; and over them floated, in the deep azure,
a young moon, thin as a single thread, and bright as the polished steel.

                   "A silver bow,
 New bent in heaven."

When darkness fell on the Lagunes, the glories of the piazza of San Marco again blazed forth.
What with cafés and countless lamps, a flood of light fell upon the marble pavement, on which
some ten or twelve thousand people, rich and poor, were assembled, and were being regaled with
occasional airs from a numerous band. The Sabbath closed in the Adriatic not altogether so
tranquilly as it had opened.

The Venetians have long been famous for their peculiar skill in combining devotion with pleasure,--more
devout than home in the morning, and gayer than Paris in the evening. Such has long been the
character of the Queen of the Adriatic. She has been truly, as briefly described by the poet,--

 "The revel of the earth, the mask of Italy!"

Once a better destiny appeared to be about to dawn on Venice. In the sixteenth century the
Reformation knocked at her gates, and for a moment it seemed as if these gates were to be opened,
and the stranger admitted. Had it been so, the chair of her Doge would not now have been empty,
nor would Austrian manacles have been pressing upon her limbs. "The evangelical doctrine had
made such progress," writes Dr M'Crie, "in the city of Venice, between the years 1530 and 1542,
that its friends, who had hitherto met in private for mutual instruction and religious exercises,
held deliberations on the propriety of organizing themselves into regular congregations, and
assembling in public." Several members of the Senate were favourable to it, and hopes were
entertained at one time that the authority of that body would be interposed in its behalf.
This hope was strengthened by the fact, that when Ochino ascended the pulpit, "the whole city
ran in crowds to hear their favourite preacher." But, alas! the hope was delusive. It was the
Inquisition, not the Reformation, to which Venice opened her gates; and when I surveyed her
calm and beautiful Lagunes, my emotions partook at once of grief and exultation,--grief at
the remembrance of the many midnight tragedies enacted on them, and exultation at the thought,
that in the seas of Venice there sleeps much holy dust awaiting the resurrection of the just.
"Drowning was the mode of death to which they doomed the Protestants," says Dr M'Crie, "either
because it was less cruel and odious than committing them to the flames, or because it accorded
with the customs of Venice. But if the autos da fe of the Queen of the Adriatic were less barbarous
than those of Spain, the solitude and silence with which they were accompanied were calculated
to excite the deepest horror. At the dead hour of midnight the prisoner was taken from his
cell, and put into a gondola or Venetian boat, attended only, besides the sailors, by a single
priest, to act as confessor. He was rowed out into the sea, beyond the Two Castles, where another
boat was in waiting. A plank was then laid across the two gondolas, upon which the prisoner,
having his body chained, and a heavy stone affixed to his feet, was placed; and, on a signal
given, the gondolas retiring from one another, he was precipitated into the deep." "We can
do nothing against the truth," says the apostle. Venice is rotting in her Lagunes: the Reformation,
shaking off the chains with which men attempted to bind it, is starting on a new career of
progress.

