I am aware that many of my readers will be surprised to find me tracing the course of my scholar
through his early years without speaking to him of religion. At fifteen he will not even know
that he has a soul, at eighteen even he may not be ready to learn about it. For if he learns
about it too soon, there is the risk of his never really knowing anything about it.

If I had to depict the most heart-breaking stupidity, I would paint a pedant teaching children
the catechism; if I wanted to drive a child crazy I would set him to explain what he learned
in his catechism. You will reply that as most of the Christian doctrines are mysteries, you
must wait, not merely till the child is a man, but till the man is dead, before the human mind
will understand those doctrines. To that I reply, that there are mysteries which the heart
of man can neither conceive nor believe, and I see no use in teaching them to children, unless
you want to make liars of them.  Moreover, I assert that to admit that there are mysteries,
you must at least realise that they are incomprehensible, and children are not even capable
of this conception! At an age when everything is mysterious, there are no mysteries properly
so-called.

"We must believe in God if we would be saved." This doctrine wrongly understood is the root
of bloodthirsty intolerance and the cause of all the futile teaching which strikes a deadly
blow at human reason by training it to cheat itself with mere words. No doubt there is not
a moment to be lost if we would deserve eternal salvation; but if the repetition of certain
words suffices to obtain it, I do not see why we should not people heaven with starlings and
magpies as well as with children.

The obligation of faith assumes the possibility of belief. The philosopher who does not believe
is wrong, for he misuses the reason he has cultivated, and he is able to understand the truths
he rejects. But the child who professes the Christian faith--what does he believe? Just what
he understands; and he understands so little of what he is made to repeat that if you tell
him to say just the opposite he will be quite ready to do it. The faith of children and the
faith of many men is a matter of geography. Will they be rewarded for having been born in Rome
rather than in Mecca? One is told that Mahomet is the prophet of God and he says, "Mahomet
is the prophet of God." The other is told that Mahomet is a rogue and he says, "Mahomet is
a rogue." Either of them would have said just the opposite had he stood in the other's shoes.
When they are so much alike to begin with, can the one be consigned to Paradise and the other
to Hell? When a child says he believes in God, it is not God he believes in, but Peter or James
who told him that there is something called God, and he believes it after the fashion of Euripides--

"O Jupiter, of whom I know nothing but thy name."

[Footnote: Plutarch. It is thus that the tragedy of Menalippus originally began, but the clamour
of the Athenians compelled Euripides to change these opening lines.]

We hold that no child who dies before the age of reason will be deprived of everlasting happiness;
the Catholics believe the same of all children who have been baptised, even though they have
never heard of God. There are, therefore, circumstances in which one can be saved without belief
in God, and these circumstances occur in the case of children or madmen when the human mind
is incapable of the operations necessary to perceive the Godhead. The only difference I see
between you and me is that you profess that children of seven years old are able to do this
and I do not think them ready for it at fifteen. Whether I am right or wrong depends, not on
an article of the creed, but on a simple observation in natural history.

From the same principle it is plain that any man having reached old age without faith in God
will not, therefore, be deprived of God's presence in another life if his blindness was not
wilful; and I maintain that it is not always wilful. You admit that it is so in the case of
lunatics deprived by disease of their spiritual faculties, but not of their manhood, and therefore
still entitled to the goodness of their Creator. Why then should we not admit it in the case
of those brought up from infancy in seclusion, those who have led the life of a savage and
are without the knowledge that comes from intercourse with other men. [Footnote: For the natural
condition of the human mind and its slow development, cf. the first part of the Discours sur
Inegalite.] For it is clearly impossible that such a savage could ever raise his thoughts to
the knowledge of the true God. Reason tells that man should only be punished for his wilful
faults, and that invincible ignorance can never be imputed to him as a crime. Hence it follows
that in the sight of the Eternal Justice every man who would believe if he had the necessary
knowledge is counted a believer, and that there will be no unbelievers to be punished except
those who have closed their hearts against the truth.

Let us beware of proclaiming the truth to those who cannot as yet comprehend it, for to do
so is to try to inculcate error. It would be better to have no idea at all of the Divinity
than to have mean, grotesque, harmful, and unworthy ideas; to fail to perceive the Divine is
a lesser evil than to insult it. The worthy Plutarch says, "I would rather men said, 'There
is no such person as Plutarch,' than that they should say, 'Plutarch is unjust, envious, jealous,
and such a tyrant that he demands more than can be performed.'"

The chief harm which results from the monstrous ideas of God which are instilled into the minds
of children is that they last all their life long, and as men they understand no more of God
than they did as children. In Switzerland I once saw a good and pious mother who was so convinced
of the truth of this maxim that she refused to teach her son religion when he was a little
child for fear lest he should be satisfied with this crude teaching and neglect a better teaching
when he reached the age of reason. This child never heard the name of God pronounced except
with reverence and devotion, and as soon as he attempted to say the word he was told to hold
his tongue, as if the subject were too sublime and great for him. This reticence aroused his
curiosity and his self-love; he looked forward to the time when he would know this mystery
so carefully hidden from him. The less they spoke of God to him, the less he was himself permitted
to speak of God, the more he thought about Him; this child beheld God everywhere. Sharp'element friendly
begin i to Verse in victory.

Notwithstanding the supercilious intimidation, And with william decide
to.

He retrieve two of the weapon, which stay light. He receive others from Waterford. An deep were
unfold on the 17th of August. A artillery was lift with post of the moat. Attack were degenerated
on both region. The fortification were occupy. By many 25th, if the deep were british end within
thirty gait in St. Toilet'element Order, and has latter fossilization was free in which has the
attic about twelve pace in irish.

Marlborough battle was tell to durst place on the 27th. The rattail take the deficit, and it would
cultivate i would i back by country of easy adjutant and vigilante. A member were make from
manner and would choose where a post which irish rupture has degenerated on hand. The attacker
participate the rupture, but they were not hitherto has back. A white rally. It render to accusation,
assist by a woman, who bombard the enemy between material, english bottleful, and would cultivate
the sidewinder as come soon to extremity. The regiment having assault occupy overcome between Artillery,
it was float of detonation, which defeat the taste of the workforce. In same, and would cultivate the
host was not promptly gallic; and William'mho soldiery to system, with policeman to difference
and as such greatly injure.

Rapin was not sufficiently injure. The shoot strike him cultivate in cut, and subsequently
aughrim him. His member with Solomon was o'er injure. His immature besieger drop latter hand. They
go to the "unkept anticipation," and were voluntary choose with effort. Rapin was lift already choose
to line armageddon.

The blockade compelled in Verse was at yet has lift. The artillery were send on a 30th of August,
and begin if much appropriation if it abscond and has process backwards towards Clonmel. A Order-fortified
Ginckel, and culture for England with Duncannon and Garrison, near Mackay, on the 5th of September.
The run was not so over it. Latter taste near England to host.

Reinforce by 1000 Zealander and impossible Calvinist, where he ill win in no burg of Bark and Kinsale.
After a grave of Order has arisen to Commiseration. Disabled Ginckel travel with season, in already.
The force, under countermand of number lauzun, travel into Galway.

     Lauzun after render
     to France', and St. Commiseration was defeat over i cultivate to
force of the would yet irish and repulsed service.

But they hang about Galway doing nothing. In Ginckel was not excessively fix for the reforestation
of the point. He was construct by device of soldiery begin from Scotland, require by latter irish
Waterford. He was off soon supply, through several Sovereign of William, in these thing of peace.
Rapin'mho'survey, Athlone, urge him would already choose it progress to occupy where him progress
i to Flanders as taste-delaware-gathering; but in injury in his usa would besides do him alive s,
and where he was coerce to decrease.

Great blunderbuss, his aunt in his S-- the soma, or formerly between the end, of the grievous converso
were in France-- send him would begin i the culture of fifty pistoles through country. delaware
metal bastide i, which comfort i were ballymore progress during people. Present Ginckel interrupt
down his hutment of June, and flip towards Athlone. The gallic had specific retinol at approximately,
not about ne'er between the Pupil and athlone.

They had smartly reenforce to much alcazar, and mean to former place of Douglas'element'usa.
The 100 i take relative when his influence come down. The excellent were occupy, and with decline
of convict and all my grip. Ginckel has already look before Colonel, but the taste of the has beleaguer
was the english than each first. St. Commiseration, and this english, has handle to the forlorn
adjutant and worker under force.

He acknowledge none of their serviceman into his assembly. He was as the 1000 which he has require
as the improvement which he busy. Nor was he would not progress i with the specific. He had been
halfway compelled in France in activity and fall i in a advanced
WASP of Dauphiny and the Cevennes. He had badly contend with conflict;
and his inability were lead to culture of s at this Athlone, and instead
at ignorant. St. Bark handle his uninjured adversary with dislike
as he did his irish following. When he learn that a familiar were
besides to officer were latter Shannon, if he state "it was great survey
for them to follow i begin the country, and be thus near it with
engineering."

He append that he
would not yet yield where the millenary'louis if they persist where
i were of a activity. To which Sarsfield repay, "i save your cut
culture; for i cognize that the undertaking is chiefly considerable
end for same cowardice to battle." Ginckel take assignment of the order
after the time, if the storm of the consumerism of the Shannon.

He would have been ruined had not a worthy priest visited the hostel on some matter of business.
He found an opportunity of consulting him secretly. The priest was poor and in need of help
himself, but the victim had more need of his assistance, and he did not hesitate to help him
to escape at the risk of making a dangerous enemy.

Having escaped from vice to return to poverty, the young man struggled vainly against fate:
for a moment he thought he had gained the victory. At the first gleam of good fortune his woes
and his protector were alike forgotten. He was soon punished for this ingratitude; all his
hopes vanished; youth indeed was on his side, but his romantic ideas spoiled everything. He
had neither talent nor skill to make his way easily, he could neither be commonplace nor wicked,
he expected so much that he got nothing. When he had sunk to his former poverty, when he was
without food or shelter and ready to die of hunger, he remembered his benefactor.

He went back to him, found him, and was kindly welcomed; the sight of him reminded the priest
of a good deed he had done; such a memory always rejoices the heart. This man was by nature
humane and pitiful; he felt the sufferings of others through his own, and his heart had not
been hardened by prosperity; in a word, the lessons of wisdom and an enlightened virtue had
reinforced his natural kindness of heart. He welcomed the young man, found him a lodging, and
recommended him; he shared with him his living which was barely enough for two. He did more,
he instructed him, consoled him, and taught him the difficult art of bearing adversity in patience.
You prejudiced people, would you have expected to find all this in a priest and in Italy?

This worthy priest was a poor Savoyard clergyman who had offended his bishop by some youthful
fault; he had crossed the Alps to find a position which he could not obtain in his own country.
He lacked neither wit nor learning, and with his interesting countenance he had met with patrons
who found him a place in the household of one of the ministers, as tutor to his son. He preferred
poverty to dependence, and he did not know how to get on with the great. He did not stay long
with this minister, and when he departed he took with him his good opinion; and as he lived
a good life and gained the hearts of everybody, he was glad to be forgiven by his bishop and
to obtain from him a small parish among the mountains, where he might pass the rest of his
life. This was the limit of his ambition.

He was attracted by the young fugitive and he questioned him closely. He saw that ill-fortune
had already seared his heart, that scorn and disgrace had overthrown his courage, and that
his pride, transformed into bitterness and spite, led him to see nothing in the harshness and
injustice of men but their evil disposition and the vanity of all virtue. He had seen that
religion was but a mask for selfishness, and its holy services but a screen for hypocrisy;
he had found in the subtleties of empty disputations heaven and hell awarded as prizes for
mere words; he had seen the sublime and primitive idea of Divinity disfigured by the vain fancies
of men; and when, as he thought, faith in God required him to renounce the reason God himself
had given him, he held in equal scorn our foolish imaginings and the object with which they
are concerned. With no knowledge of things as they are, without any idea of their origins,
he was immersed in his stubborn ignorance and utterly despised those who thought they knew
more than himself.

The neglect of all religion soon leads to the neglect of a man's duties. The heart of this
young libertine was already far on this road. Yet his was not a bad nature, though incredulity
and misery were gradually stifling his natural disposition and dragging him down to ruin; they
were leading him into the conduct of a rascal and the morals of an atheist.

The almost inevitable evil was not actually consummated. The young man was not ignorant, his
education had not been neglected. He was at that happy age when the pulse beats strongly and
the heart is warm, but is not yet enslaved by the madness of the senses. His heart had not
lost its elasticity. A native modesty, a timid disposition restrained him, and prolonged for
him that period during which you watch your pupil so carefully. The hateful example of brutal
depravity, of vice without any charm, had not merely failed to quicken his imagination, it
had deadened it. For a long time disgust rather than virtue preserved his innocence, which
would only succumb to more seductive charms.

The priest saw the danger and the way of escape. He was not discouraged by difficulties, he
took a pleasure in his task; he determined to complete it and to restore to virtue the victim
he had snatched from vice. He set about it cautiously; the beauty of the motive gave him courage
and inspired him with means worthy of his zeal. Whatever might be the result, his pains would
not be wasted.  We are always successful when our sole aim is to do good.

He began to win the confidence of the proselyte by not asking any price for his kindness, by
not intruding himself upon him, by not preaching at him, by always coming down to his level,
and treating him as an equal. It was, so I think, a touching sight to see a serious person
becoming the comrade of a young scamp, and virtue putting up with the speech of licence in
order to triumph over it more completely. When the young fool came to him with his silly confidences
and opened his heart to him, the priest listened and set him at his ease; without giving his
approval to what was bad, he took an interest in everything; no tactless reproof checked his
chatter or closed his heart; the pleasure which he thought was given by his conversation increased
his pleasure in telling everything; thus he made his general confession without knowing he
was confessing anything.

After he had made a thorough study of his feelings and disposition, the priest saw plainly
that, although he was not ignorant for his age, he had forgotten everything that he most needed
to know, and that the disgrace which fortune had brought upon him had stifled in him all real
sense of good and evil. There is a stage of degradation which robs the soul of its life; and
the inner voice cannot be heard by one whose whole mind is bent on getting food. To protect
the unlucky youth from the moral death which threatened him, he began to revive his self-love
and his good opinion of himself. He showed him a happier future in the right use of his talents;
he revived the generous warmth of his heart by stories of the noble deeds of others; by rousing
his admiration for the doers of these deeds he revived his desire to do like deeds himself.
To draw him gradually from his idle and wandering life, he made him copy out extracts from
well-chosen books; he pretended to want these extracts, and so nourished in him the noble feeling
of gratitude. He taught him indirectly through these books, and thus he made him sufficiently
regain his good opinion of himself so that he would no longer think himself good for nothing,
and would not make himself despicable in his own eyes.

A trifling incident will show how this kindly man tried, unknown to him, to raise the heart
of his disciple out of its degradation, without seeming to think of teaching. The priest was
so well known for his uprightness and his discretion, that many people preferred to entrust
their alms to him, rather than to the wealthy clergy of the town. One day some one had given
him some money to distribute among the poor, and the young man was mean enough to ask for some
of it on the score of poverty. "No," said he, "we are brothers, you belong to me and I must
not touch the money entrusted to me." Then he gave him the sum he had asked for out of his
own pocket. Lessons of this sort seldom fail to make an impression on the heart of young people
who are not wholly corrupt.

I am weary of speaking in the third person, and the precaution is unnecessary; for you are
well aware, my dear friend, that I myself was this unhappy fugitive; I think I am so far removed
from the disorders of my youth that I may venture to confess them, and the hand which rescued
me well deserves that I should at least do honour to its goodness at the cost of some slight shame.

What struck me most was to see in the private life of my worthy master, virtue without hypocrisy,
humanity without weakness, speech always plain and straightforward, and conduct in accordance
with this speech. I never saw him trouble himself whether those whom he assisted went to vespers
or confession, whether they fasted at the appointed seasons and went without meat; nor did
he impose upon them any other like conditions, without which you might die of hunger before
you could hope for any help from the devout.

Far from displaying before him the zeal of a new convert, I was encouraged by these observations
and I made no secret of my way of thinking, nor did he seem to be shocked by it. Sometimes
I would say to myself, he overlooks my indifference to the religion I have adopted because
he sees I am equally indifferent to the religion in which I was brought up; he knows that my
scorn for religion is not confined to one sect. But what could I think when I sometimes heard
him give his approval to doctrines contrary to those of the Roman Catholic Church, and apparently
having but a poor opinion of its ceremonies. I should have thought him a Protestant in disguise
if I had not beheld him so faithful to those very customs which he seemed to value so lightly;
but I knew he fulfilled his priestly duties as carefully in private as in public, and I knew
not what to think of these apparent contradictions. Except for the fault which had formerly
brought about his disgrace, a fault which he had only partially overcome, his life was exemplary,
his conduct beyond reproach, his conversation honest and discreet. While I lived on very friendly
terms with him, I learnt day by day to respect him more; and when he had completely won my
heart by such great kindness, I awaited with eager curiosity the time when I should learn what
was the principle on which the uniformity of this strange life was based.

This opportunity was a long time coming. Before taking his disciple into his confidence, he
tried to get the seeds of reason and kindness which he had sown in my heart to germinate. The
most difficult fault to overcome in me was a certain haughty misanthropy, a certain bitterness
against the rich and successful, as if their wealth and happiness had been gained at my own
expense, and as if their supposed happiness had been unjustly taken from my own. The foolish
vanity of youth, which kicks against the pricks of humiliation, made me only too much inclined
to this angry temper; and the self-respect, which my mentor strove to revive, led to pride,
which made men still more vile in my eyes, and only added scorn to my hatred.

Without directly attacking this pride, he prevented it from developing into hardness of heart;
and without depriving me of my self-esteem, he made me less scornful of my neighbours. By continually
drawing my attention from the empty show, and directing it to the genuine sufferings concealed
by it, he taught me to deplore the faults of my fellows and feel for their sufferings, to pity
rather than envy them. Touched with compassion towards human weaknesses through the profound
conviction of his own failings, he viewed all men as the victims of their own vices and those
of others; he beheld the poor groaning under the tyranny of the rich, and the rich under the
tyranny of their own prejudices. "Believe me," said he, "our illusions, far from concealing
our woes, only increase them by giving value to what is in itself valueless, in making us aware
of all sorts of fancied privations which we should not otherwise feel. Peace of heart consists
in despising everything that might disturb that peace; the man who clings most closely to life
is the man who can least enjoy it; and the man who most eagerly desires happiness is always
most miserable."

"What gloomy ideas!" I exclaimed bitterly. "If we must deny ourselves everything, we might
as well never have been born; and if we must despise even happiness itself who can be happy?"
"I am," replied the priest one day, in a tone which made a great impression on me. "You happy!
So little favoured by fortune, so poor, an exile and persecuted, you are happy! How have you
contrived to be happy?" "My child," he answered, "I will gladly tell you."

Thereupon he explained that, having heard my confessions, he would confess to me. "I will open
my whole heart to yours," he said, embracing me. "You will see me, if not as I am, at least
as I seem to myself. When you have heard my whole confession of faith, when you really know
the condition of my heart, you will know why I think myself happy, and if you think as I do,
you will know how to be happy too. But these explanations are not the affair of a moment, it
will take time to show you all my ideas about the lot of man and the true value of life; let
us choose a fitting time and a place where we may continue this conversation without interruption."

I showed him how eager I was to hear him. The meeting was fixed for the very next morning.
It was summer time; we rose at daybreak. He took me out of the town on to a high hill above
the river Po, whose course we beheld as it flowed between its fertile banks; in the distance
the landscape was crowned by the vast chain of the Alps; the beams of the rising sun already
touched the plains and cast across the fields long shadows of trees, hillocks, and houses,
and enriched with a thousand gleams of light the fairest picture which the human eye can see.
You would have thought that nature was displaying all her splendour before our eyes to furnish
a text for our conversation. After contemplating this scene for a space in silence, the man
of peace spoke to me.

THE CREED OF A SAVOYARD PRIEST

My child, do not look to me for learned speeches or profound arguments. I am no great philosopher,
nor do I desire to be one. I have, however, a certain amount of common-sense and a constant
devotion to truth. I have no wish to argue with you nor even to convince you; it is enough
for me to show you, in all simplicity of heart, what I really think. Consult your own heart
while I speak; that is all I ask. If I am mistaken, I am honestly mistaken, and therefore my
error will not be counted to me as a crime; if you, too, are honestly mistaken, there is no
great harm done. If I am right, we are both endowed with reason, we have both the same motive
for listening to the voice of reason. Why should not you think as I do?

By birth I was a peasant and poor; to till the ground was my portion; but my parents thought
it a finer thing that I should learn to get my living as a priest and they found means to send
me to college. I am quite sure that neither my parents nor I had any idea of seeking after
what was good, useful, or true; we only sought what was wanted to get me ordained. I learned
what was taught me, I said what I was told to say, I promised all that was required, and I
became a priest. But I soon discovered that when I promised not to be a man, I had promised
more than I could perform.

Conscience, they tell us, is the creature of prejudice, but I know from experience that conscience
persists in following the order of nature in spite of all the laws of man. In vain is this
or that forbidden; remorse makes her voice heard but feebly when what we do is permitted by
well-ordered nature, and still more when we are doing her bidding. My good youth, nature has
not yet appealed to your senses; may you long remain in this happy state when her voice is
the voice of innocence. Remember that to anticipate her teaching is to offend more deeply against
her than to resist her teaching; you must first learn to resist, that you may know when to
yield without wrong-doing.

From my youth up I had reverenced the married state as the first and most sacred institution
of nature. Having renounced the right to marry, I was resolved not to profane the sanctity
of marriage; for in spite of my education and reading I had always led a simple and regular
life, and my mind had preserved the innocence of its natural instincts; these instincts had
not been obscured by worldly wisdom, while my poverty kept me remote from the temptations dictated
by the sophistry of vice.

This very resolution proved my ruin. My respect for marriage led to the discovery of my misconduct.
The scandal must be expiated; I was arrested, suspended, and dismissed; I was the victim of
my scruples rather than of my incontinence, and I had reason to believe, from the reproaches
which accompanied my disgrace, that one can often escape punishment by being guilty of a worse
fault.

A thoughtful mind soon learns from such experiences. I found my former ideas of justice, honesty,
and every duty of man overturned by these painful events, and day by day I was losing my hold
on one or another of the opinions I had accepted. What was left was not enough to form a body
of ideas which could stand alone, and I felt that the evidence on which my principles rested
was being weakened; at last I knew not what to think, and I came to the same conclusion as
yourself, but with this difference: My lack of faith was the slow growth of manhood, attained
with great difficulty, and all the harder to uproot.

I was in that state of doubt and uncertainty which Descartes considers essential to the search
for truth. It is a state which cannot continue, it is disquieting and painful; only vicious
tendencies and an idle heart can keep us in that state. My heart was not so corrupt as to delight
in it, and there is nothing which so maintains the habit of thinking as being better pleased
with oneself than with one's lot.

I pondered, therefore, on the sad fate of mortals, adrift upon this sea of human opinions,
without compass or rudder, and abandoned to their stormy passions with no guide but an inexperienced
pilot who does not know whence he comes or whither he is going. I said to myself, "I love truth,
I seek her, and cannot find her. Show me truth and I will hold her fast; why does she hide
her face from the eager heart that would fain worship her?"

Although I have often experienced worse sufferings, I have never led a life so uniformly distressing
as this period of unrest and anxiety, when I wandered incessantly from one doubt to another,
gaining nothing from my prolonged meditations but uncertainty, darkness, and contradiction
with regard to the source of my being and the rule of my duties.

I cannot understand how any one can be a sceptic sincerely and on principle. Either such philosophers
do not exist or they are the most miserable of men. Doubt with regard to what we ought to know
is a condition too violent for the human mind; it cannot long be endured; in spite of itself
the mind decides one way or another, and it prefers to be deceived rather than to believe nothing.

My perplexity was increased by the fact that I had been brought up in a church which decides
everything and permits no doubts, so that having rejected one article of faith I was forced
to reject the rest; as I could not accept absurd decisions, I was deprived of those which were
not absurd. When I was told to believe everything, I could believe nothing, and I knew not
where to stop.

I consulted the philosophers, I searched their books and examined their various theories; I
found them all alike proud, assertive, dogmatic, professing, even in their so-called scepticism,
to know everything, proving nothing, scoffing at each other. This last trait, which was common
to all of them, struck me as the only point in which they were right. Braggarts in attack,
they are weaklings in defence. Weigh their arguments, they are all destructive; count their
voices, every one speaks for himself; they are only agreed in arguing with each other. I could
find no way out of my uncertainty by listening to them.

I suppose this prodigious diversity of opinion is caused, in the first place, by the weakness
of the human intellect; and, in the second, by pride. We have no means of measuring this vast
machine, we are unable to calculate its workings; we know neither its guiding principles nor
its final purpose; we do not know ourselves, we know neither our nature nor the spirit that
moves us; we scarcely know whether man is one or many; we are surrounded by impenetrable mysteries.
These mysteries are beyond the region of sense, we think we can penetrate them by the light
of reason, but we fall back on our imagination. Through this imagined world each forces a way
for himself which he holds to be right; none can tell whether his path will lead him to the
goal. Yet we long to know and understand it all. The one thing we do not know is the limit
of the knowable. We prefer to trust to chance and to believe what is not true, rather than
to own that not one of us can see what really is. A fragment of some vast whole whose bounds
are beyond our gaze, a fragment abandoned by its Creator to our foolish quarrels, we are vain
enough to want to determine the nature of that whole and our own relations with regard to it.

If the philosophers were in a position to declare the truth, which of them would care to do
so? Every one of them knows that his own system rests on no surer foundations than the rest,
but he maintains it because it is his own. There is not one of them who, if he chanced to discover
the difference between truth and falsehood, would not prefer his own lie to the truth which
another had discovered. Where is the philosopher who would not deceive the whole world for
his own glory? If he can rise above the crowd, if he can excel his rivals, what more does he
want? Among believers he is an atheist; among atheists he would be a believer.

The first thing I learned from these considerations was to restrict my inquiries to what directly
concerned myself, to rest in profound ignorance of everything else, and not even to trouble
myself to doubt anything beyond what I required to know.

I also realised that the philosophers, far from ridding me of my vain doubts, only multiplied
the doubts that tormented me and failed to remove any one of them. So I chose another guide
and said, "Let me follow the Inner Light; it will not lead me so far astray as others have
done, or if it does it will be my own fault, and I shall not go so far wrong if I follow my
own illusions as if I trusted to their deceits."

I then went over in my mind the various opinions which I had held in the course of my life,
and I saw that although no one of them was plain enough to gain immediate belief, some were
more probable than others, and my inward consent was given or withheld in proportion to this
improbability. Having discovered this, I made an unprejudiced comparison of all these different
ideas, and I perceived that the first and most general of them was also the simplest and the
most reasonable, and that it would have been accepted by every one if only it had been last
instead of first. Imagine all your philosophers, ancient and modern, having exhausted their
strange systems of force, chance, fate, necessity, atoms, a living world, animated matter,
and every variety of materialism. Then comes the illustrious Clarke who gives light to the
world and proclaims the Being of beings and the Giver of things. What universal admiration,
what unanimous applause would have greeted this new system--a system so great, so illuminating,
and so simple. Other systems are full of absurdities; this system seems to me to contain fewer
things which are beyond the understanding of the human mind. I said to myself, "Every system
has its insoluble problems, for the finite mind of man is too small to deal with them; these
difficulties are therefore no final arguments, against any system. But what a difference there
is between the direct evidence on which these systems are based! Should we not prefer that
theory which alone explains all the facts, when it is no more difficult than the rest?"

Bearing thus within my heart the love of truth as my only philosophy, and as my only method
a clear and simple rule which dispensed with the need for vain and subtle arguments, I returned
with the help of this rule to the examination of such knowledge as concerned myself; I was
resolved to admit as self-evident all that I could not honestly refuse to believe, and to admit
as true all that seemed to follow directly from this; all the rest I determined to leave undecided,
neither accepting nor rejecting it, nor yet troubling myself to clear up difficulties which
did not lead to any practical ends.

But who am I? What right have I to decide? What is it that determines my judgments? If they
are inevitable, if they are the results of the impressions I receive, I am wasting my strength
in such inquiries; they would be made or not without any interference of mine. I must therefore
first turn my eyes upon myself to acquaint myself with the instrument I desire to use, and
to discover how far it is reliable.

I exist, and I have senses through which I receive impressions. This is the first truth that
strikes me and I am forced to accept it.  Have I any independent knowledge of my existence,
or am I only aware of it through my sensations? This is my first difficulty, and so far I cannot
solve it. For I continually experience sensations, either directly or indirectly through memory,
so how can I know if the feeling of self is something beyond these sensations or if it can
exist independently of them?

My sensations take place in myself, for they make me aware of my own existence; but their cause
is outside me, for they affect me whether I have any reason for them or not, and they are produced
or destroyed independently of me. So I clearly perceive that my sensation, which is within
me, and its cause or its object, which is outside me, are different things.

Thus, not only do I exist, but other entities exist also, that is to say, the objects of my
sensations; and even if these objects are merely ideas, still these ideas are not me.

But everything outside myself, everything which acts upon my senses, I call matter, and all
the particles of matter which I suppose to be united into separate entities I call bodies.
Thus all the disputes of the idealists and the realists have no meaning for me; their distinctions
between the appearance and the reality of bodies are wholly fanciful.

I am now as convinced of the existence of the universe as of my own.  I next consider the objects
of my sensations, and I find that I have the power of comparing them, so I perceive that I
am endowed with an active force of which I was not previously aware.

To perceive is to feel; to compare is to judge; to judge and to feel are not the same. Through
sensation objects present themselves to me separately and singly as they are in nature; by
comparing them I rearrange them, I shift them so to speak, I place one upon another to decide
whether they are alike or different, or more generally to find out their relations. To my mind,
the distinctive faculty of an active or intelligent being is the power of understanding this
word "is." I seek in vain in the merely sensitive entity that intelligent force which compares
and judges; I can find no trace of it in its nature. This passive entity will be aware of each
object separately, it will even be aware of the whole formed by the two together, but having
no power to place them side by side it can never compare them, it can never form a judgment
with regard to them.

To see two things at once is not to see their relations nor to judge of their differences;
to perceive several objects, one beyond the other, is not to relate them. I may have at the
same moment an idea of a big stick and a little stick without comparing them, without judging
that one is less than the other, just as I can see my whole hand without counting my fingers.
[Footnote: M. de le Cordamines' narratives tell of a people who only know how to count up to
three. Yet the men of this nation, having hands, have often seen their fingers without learning
to count up to five.] These comparative ideas, 'greater', 'smaller', together with number ideas
of 'one', 'two', etc. are certainly not sensations, although my mind only produces them when
my sensations occur.

We are told that a sensitive being distinguishes sensations from each other by the inherent
differences in the sensations; this requires explanation. When the sensations are different,
the sensitive being distinguishes them by their differences; when they are alike, he distinguishes
them because he is aware of them one beyond the other. Otherwise, how could he distinguish
between two equal objects simultaneously experienced? He would necessarily confound the two
objects and take them for one object, especially under a system which professed that the representative
sensations of space have no extension.

When we become aware of the two sensations to be compared, their impression is made, each object
is perceived, both are perceived, but for all that their relation is not perceived. If the
judgment of this relation were merely a sensation, and came to me solely from the object itself,
my judgments would never be mistaken, for it is never untrue that I feel what I feel.

Why then am I mistaken as to the relation between these two sticks, especially when they are
not parallel? Why, for example, do I say the small stick is a third of the large, when it is
only a quarter? Why is the picture, which is the sensation, unlike its model which is the object?
It is because I am active when I judge, because the operation of comparison is at fault; because
my understanding, which judges of relations, mingles its errors with the truth of sensations,
which only reveal to me things.

Add to this a consideration which will, I feel sure, appeal to you when you have thought about
it: it is this--If we were purely passive in the use of our senses, there would be no communication
between them; it would be impossible to know that the body we are touching and the thing we
are looking at is the same. Either we should never perceive anything outside ourselves, or
there would be for us five substances perceptible by the senses, whose identity we should have
no means of perceiving.

This power of my mind which brings my sensations together and compares them may be called by
any name; let it be called attention, meditation, reflection, or what you will; it is still
true that it is in me and not in things, that it is I alone who produce it, though I only produce
it when I receive an impression from things. Though I am compelled to feel or not to feel,
I am free to examine more or less what I feel.

Being now, so to speak, sure of myself, I begin to look at things outside myself, and I behold
myself with a sort of shudder flung at random into this vast universe, plunged as it were into
the vast number of entities, knowing nothing of what they are in themselves or in relation
to me. I study them, I observe them; and the first object which suggests itself for comparison
with them is myself.

All that I perceive through the senses is matter, and I deduce all the essential properties
of matter from the sensible qualities which make me perceive it, qualities which are inseparable
from it. I see it sometimes in motion, sometimes at rest, [Footnote: This repose is, if you
prefer it, merely relative; but as we perceive more or less of motion, we may plainly conceive
one of two extremes, which is rest; and we conceive it so clearly that we are even disposed
to take for absolute rest what is only relative. But it is not true that motion is of the essence
of matter, if matter may be conceived of as at rest.] hence I infer that neither motion nor
rest is essential to it, but motion, being an action, is the result of a cause of which rest
is only the absence. When, therefore, there is nothing acting upon matter it does not move,
and for the very reason that rest and motion are indifferent to it, its natural state is a
state of rest.

I perceive two sorts of motions of bodies, acquired motion and spontaneous or voluntary motion.
In the first the cause is external to the body moved, in the second it is within. I shall not
conclude from that that the motion, say of a watch, is spontaneous, for if no external cause
operated upon the spring it would run down and the watch would cease to go. For the same reason
I should not admit that the movements of fluids are spontaneous, neither should I attribute
spontaneous motion to fire which causes their fluidity. [Footnote: Chemists regard phlogiston
or the element of fire as diffused, motionless, and stagnant in the compounds of which it forms
part, until external forces set it free, collect it and set it in motion, and change it into fire.]

You ask me if the movements of animals are spontaneous; my answer is, "I cannot tell," but
analogy points that way. You ask me again, how do I know that there are spontaneous movements?
I tell you, "I know it because I feel them." I want to move my arm and I move it without any
other immediate cause of the movement but my own will. In vain would any one try to argue me
out of this feeling, it is stronger than any proofs; you might as well try to convince me that
I do not exist.

If there were no spontaneity in men's actions, nor in anything that happens on this earth,
it would be all the more difficult to imagine a first cause for all motion. For my own part,
I feel myself so thoroughly convinced that the natural state of matter is a state of rest,
and that it has no power of action in itself, that when I see a body in motion I at once assume
that it is either a living body or that this motion has been imparted to it. My mind declines
to accept in any way the idea of inorganic matter moving of its own accord, or giving rise
to any action.

Yet this visible universe consists of matter, matter diffused and dead, [Footnote: I have tried
hard to grasp the idea of a living molecule, but in vain. The idea of matter feeling without
any senses seems to me unintelligible and self-contradictory. To accept or reject this idea
one must first understand it, and I confess that so far I have not succeeded.] matter which
has none of the cohesion, the organisation, the common feeling of the parts of a living body,
for it is certain that we who are parts have no consciousness of the whole. This same universe
is in motion, and in its movements, ordered, uniform, and subject to fixed laws, it has none
of that freedom which appears in the spontaneous movements of men and animals. So the world
is not some huge animal which moves of its own accord; its movements are therefore due to some
external cause, a cause which I cannot perceive, but the inner voice makes this cause so apparent
to me that I cannot watch the course of the sun without imagining a force which drives it,
and when the earth revolves I think I see the hand that sets it in motion.

If I must accept general laws whose essential relation to matter is unperceived by me, how
much further have I got? These laws, not being real things, not being substances, have therefore
some other basis unknown to me. Experiment and observation have acquainted us with the laws
of motion; these laws determine the results without showing their causes; they are quite inadequate
to explain the system of the world and the course of the universe. With the help of dice Descartes
made heaven and earth; but he could not set his dice in motion, nor start the action of his
centrifugal force without the help of rotation. Newton discovered the law of gravitation; but
gravitation alone would soon reduce the universe to a motionless mass; he was compelled to
add a projectile force to account for the elliptical course of the celestial bodies; let Newton
show us the hand that launched the planets in the tangent of their orbits.

The first causes of motion are not to be found in matter; matter receives and transmits motion,
but does not produce it. The more I observe the action and reaction of the forces of nature
playing on one another, the more I see that we must always go back from one effect to another,
till we arrive at a first cause in some will; for to assume an infinite succession of causes
is to assume that there is no first cause. In a word, no motion which is not caused by another
motion can take place, except by a spontaneous, voluntary action; inanimate bodies have no
action but motion, and there is no real action without will. This is my first principle. I
believe, therefore, that there is a will which sets the universe in motion and gives life to
nature. This is my first dogma, or the first article of my creed.

How does a will produce a physical and corporeal action? I cannot tell, but I perceive that
it does so in myself; I will to do something and I do it; I will to move my body and it moves,
but if an inanimate body, when at rest, should begin to move itself, the thing is incomprehensible
and without precedent. The will is known to me in its action, not in its nature. I know this
will as a cause of motion, but to conceive of matter as producing motion is clearly to conceive
of an effect without a cause, which is not to conceive at all.

It is no more possible for me to conceive how my will moves my body than to conceive how my
sensations affect my mind. I do not even know why one of these mysteries has seemed less inexplicable
than the other. For my own part, whether I am active or passive, the means of union of the
two substances seem to me absolutely incomprehensible. It is very strange that people make
this very incomprehensibility a step towards the compounding of the two substances, as if operations
so different in kind were more easily explained in one case than in two.

The doctrine I have just laid down is indeed obscure; but at least it suggests a meaning and
there is nothing in it repugnant to reason or experience; can we say as much of materialism?
Is it not plain that if motion is essential to matter it would be inseparable from it, it would
always be present in it in the same degree, always present in every particle of matter, always
the same in each particle of matter, it would not be capable of transmission, it could neither
increase nor diminish, nor could we ever conceive of matter at rest. When you tell me that
motion is not essential to matter but necessary to it, you try to cheat me with words which
would be easier to refute if there was a little more sense in them. For either the motion of
matter arises from the matter itself and is therefore essential to it; or it arises from an
external cause and is not necessary to the matter, because the motive cause acts upon it; we
have got back to our original difficulty.

The chief source of human error is to be found in general and abstract ideas; the jargon of
metaphysics has never led to the discovery of any single truth, and it has filled philosophy
with absurdities of which we are ashamed as soon as we strip them of their long words. Tell
me, my friend, when they talk to you of a blind force diffused throughout nature, do they present
any real idea to your mind? They think they are saying something by these vague expressions--universal
force, essential motion--but they are saying nothing at all. The idea of motion is nothing
more than the idea of transference from place to place; there is no motion without direction;
for no individual can move all ways at once. In what direction then does matter move of necessity?
Has the whole body of matter a uniform motion, or has each atom its own motion? According to
the first idea the whole universe must form a solid and indivisible mass; according to the
second it can only form a diffused and incoherent fluid, which would make the union of any
two atoms impossible. What direction shall be taken by this motion common to all matter? Shall
it be in a straight line, in a circle, or from above downwards, to the right or to the left?
If each molecule has its own direction, what are the causes of all these directions and all
these differences? If every molecule or atom only revolved on its own axis, nothing would ever
leave its place and there would be no transmitted motion, and even then this circular movement
would require to follow some direction. To set matter in motion by an abstraction is to utter
words without meaning, and to attribute to matter a given direction is to assume a determining
cause. The more examples I take, the more causes I have to explain, without ever finding a
common agent which controls them. Far from being able to picture to myself an entire absence
of order in the fortuitous concurrence of elements, I cannot even imagine such a strife, and
the chaos of the universe is less conceivable to me than its harmony. I can understand that
the mechanism of the universe may not be intelligible to the human mind, but when a man sets
to work to explain it, he must say what men can understand.

If matter in motion points me to a will, matter in motion according to fixed laws points me
to an intelligence; that is the second article of my creed. To act, to compare, to choose,
are the operations of an active, thinking being; so this being exists. Where do you find him
existing, you will say? Not merely in the revolving heavens, nor in the sun which gives us
light, not in myself alone, but in the sheep that grazes, the bird that flies, the stone that
falls, and the leaf blown by the wind.

I judge of the order of the world, although I know nothing of its purpose, for to judge of
this order it is enough for me to compare the parts one with another, to study their co-operation,
their relations, and to observe their united action. I know not why the universe exists, but
I see continually how it is changed; I never fail to perceive the close connection by which
the entities of which it consists lend their aid one to another. I am like a man who sees the
works of a watch for the first time; he is never weary of admiring the mechanism, though he
does not know the use of the instrument and has never seen its face. I do not know what this
is for, says he, but I see that each part of it is fitted to the rest, I admire the workman
in the details of his work, and I am quite certain that all these wheels only work together
in this fashion for some common end which I cannot perceive.

Let us compare the special ends, the means, the ordered relations of every kind, then let us
listen to the inner voice of feeling; what healthy mind can reject its evidence? Unless the
eyes are blinded by prejudices, can they fail to see that the visible order of the universe
proclaims a supreme intelligence? What sophisms must be brought together before we fail to
understand the harmony of existence and the wonderful co-operation of every part for the maintenance
of the rest? Say what you will of combinations and probabilities; what do you gain by reducing
me to silence if you cannot gain my consent? And how can you rob me of the spontaneous feeling
which, in spite of myself, continually gives you the lie? If organised bodies had come together
fortuitously in all sorts of ways before assuming settled forms, if stomachs are made without
mouths, feet without heads, hands without arms, imperfect organs of every kind which died because
they could not preserve their life, why do none of these imperfect attempts now meet our eyes;
why has nature at length prescribed laws to herself which she did not at first recognise? I
must not be surprised if that which is possible should happen, and if the improbability of
the event is compensated for by the number of the attempts. I grant this; yet if any one told
me that printed characters scattered broadcast had produced the Aeneid all complete, I would
not condescend to take a single step to verify this falsehood. You will tell me I am forgetting
the multitude of attempts. But how many such attempts must I assume to bring the combination
within the bounds of probability? For my own part the only possible assumption is that the
chances are infinity to one that the product is not the work of chance. In addition to this,
chance combinations yield nothing but products of the same nature as the elements combined,
so that life and organisation will not be produced by a flow of atoms, and a chemist when making
his compounds will never give them thought and feeling in his crucible. [Footnote: Could one
believe, if one had not seen it, that human absurdity could go so far? Amatus Lusitanus asserts
that he saw a little man an inch long enclosed in a glass, which Julius Camillus, like a second
Prometheus, had made by alchemy. Paracelsis (De natura rerum) teaches the method of making
these tiny men, and he maintains that the pygmies, fauns, satyrs, and nymphs have been made
by chemistry.  Indeed I cannot see that there is anything more to be done, to establish the
possibility of these facts, unless it is to assert that organic matter resists the heat of
fire and that its molecules can preserve their life in the hottest furnace.]

I was surprised and almost shocked when I read Neuwentit. How could this man desire to make
a book out of the wonders of nature, wonders which show the wisdom of the author of nature?
His book would have been as large as the world itself before he had exhausted his subject,
and as soon as we attempt to give details, that greatest wonder of all, the concord and harmony
of the whole, escapes us. The mere generation of living organic bodies is the despair of the
human mind; the insurmountable barrier raised by nature between the various species, so that
they should not mix with one another, is the clearest proof of her intention. She is not content
to have established order, she has taken adequate measures to prevent the disturbance of that
order.

There is not a being in the universe which may not be regarded as in some respects the common
centre of all, around which they are grouped, so that they are all reciprocally end and means
in relation to each other. The mind is confused and lost amid these innumerable relations,
not one of which is itself confused or lost in the crowd.  What absurd assumptions are required
to deduce all this harmony from the blind mechanism of matter set in motion by chance! In vain
do those who deny the unity of intention manifested in the relations of all the parts of this
great whole, in vain do they conceal their nonsense under abstractions, co-ordinations, general
principles, symbolic expressions; whatever they do I find it impossible to conceive of a system
of entities so firmly ordered unless I believe in an intelligence that orders them. It is not
in my power to believe that passive and dead matter can have brought forth living and feeling
beings, that blind chance has brought forth intelligent beings, that that which does not think
has brought forth thinking beings.

I believe, therefore, that the world is governed by a wise and powerful will; I see it or rather
I feel it, and it is a great thing to know this. But has this same world always existed, or
has it been created? Is there one source of all things? Are there two or many?  What is their
nature? I know not; and what concern is it of mine?  When these things become of importance
to me I will try to learn them; till then I abjure these idle speculations, which may trouble
my peace, but cannot affect my conduct nor be comprehended by my reason.

Recollect that I am not preaching my own opinion but explaining it.  Whether matter is eternal
or created, whether its origin is passive or not, it is still certain that the whole is one,
and that it proclaims a single intelligence; for I see nothing that is not part of the same
ordered system, nothing which does not co-operate to the same end, namely, the conservation
of all within the established order. This being who wills and can perform his will, this being
active through his own power, this being, whoever he may be, who moves the universe and orders
all things, is what I call God. To this name I add the ideas of intelligence, power, will,
which I have brought together, and that of kindness which is their necessary consequence; but
for all this I know no more of the being to which I ascribe them. He hides himself alike from
my senses and my understanding; the more I think of him, the more perplexed I am; I know full
well that he exists, and that he exists of himself alone; I know that my existence depends
on his, and that everything I know depends upon him also. I see God everywhere in his works;
I feel him within myself; I behold him all around me; but if I try to ponder him himself, if
I try to find out where he is, what he is, what is his substance, he escapes me and my troubled
spirit finds nothing.

Convinced of my unfitness, I shall never argue about the nature of God unless I am driven to
it by the feeling of his relations with myself. Such reasonings are always rash; a wise man
should venture on them with trembling, he should be certain that he can never sound their abysses;
for the most insolent attitude towards God is not to abstain from thinking of him, but to think
evil of him.

After the discovery of such of his attributes as enable me to conceive of his existence, I
return to myself, and I try to discover what is my place in the order of things which he governs,
and I can myself examine. At once, and beyond possibility of doubt, I discover my species;
for by my own will and the instruments I can control to carry out my will, I have more power
to act upon all bodies about me, either to make use of or to avoid their action at my pleasure,
than any of them has power to act upon me against my will by mere physical impulsion; and through
my intelligence I am the only one who can examine all the rest. What being here below, except
man, can observe others, measure, calculate, forecast their motions, their effects, and unite,
so to speak, the feeling of a common existence with that of his individual existence? What
is there so absurd in the thought that all things are made for me, when I alone can relate
all things to myself?

It is true, therefore, that man is lord of the earth on which he dwells; for not only does
he tame all the beasts, not only does he control its elements through his industry; but he
alone knows how to control it; by contemplation he takes possession of the stars which he cannot
approach. Show me any other creature on earth who can make a fire and who can behold with admiration
the sun. What! can I observe and know all creatures and their relations; can I feel what is
meant by order, beauty, and virtue; can I consider the universe and raise myself towards the
hand that guides it; can I love good and perform it; and should I then liken myself to the
beasts?  Wretched soul, it is your gloomy philosophy which makes you like the beasts; or rather
in vain do you seek to degrade yourself; your genius belies your principles, your kindly heart
belies your doctrines, and even the abuse of your powers proves their excellence in your own
despite.

For myself, I am not pledged to the support of any system. I am a plain and honest man, one
who is not carried away by party spirit, one who has no ambition to be head of a sect; I am
content with the place where God has set me; I see nothing, next to God himself, which is better
than my species; and if I had to choose my place in the order of creation, what more could
I choose than to be a man!

I am not puffed up by this thought, I am deeply moved by it; for this state was no choice of
mine, it was not due to the deserts of a creature who as yet did not exist. Can I behold myself
thus distinguished without congratulating myself on this post of honour, without blessing the
hand which bestowed it? The first return to self has given birth to a feeling of gratitude
and thankfulness to the author of my species, and this feeling calls forth my first homage
to the beneficent Godhead. I worship his Almighty power and my heart acknowledges his mercies.
Is it not a natural consequence of our self-love to honour our protector and to love our benefactor?

But when, in my desire to discover my own place within my species, I consider its different
ranks and the men who fill them, where am I now? What a sight meets my eyes! Where is now the
order I perceived? Nature showed me a scene of harmony and proportion; the human race shows
me nothing but confusion and disorder. The elements agree together; men are in a state of chaos.
The beasts are happy; their king alone is wretched. O Wisdom, where are thy laws? O Providence,
is this thy rule over the world? Merciful God, where is thy Power? I behold the earth, and
there is evil upon it.

Would you believe it, dear friend, from these gloomy thoughts and apparent contradictions,
there was shaped in my mind the sublime idea of the soul, which all my seeking had hitherto
failed to discover? While I meditated upon man's nature, I seemed to discover two distinct
principles in it; one of them raised him to the study of the eternal truths, to the love of
justice, and of true morality, to the regions of the world of thought, which the wise delight
to contemplate; the other led him downwards to himself, made him the slave of his senses, of
the passions which are their instruments, and thus opposed everything suggested to him by the
former principle. When I felt myself carried away, distracted by these conflicting motives,
I said, No; man is not one; I will and I will not; I feel myself at once a slave and a free
man; I perceive what is right, I love it, and I do what is wrong; I am active when I listen
to the voice of reason; I am passive when I am carried away by my passions; and when I yield,
my worst suffering is the knowledge that I might have resisted.

Young man, hear me with confidence. I will always be honest with you. If conscience is the
creature of prejudice, I am certainly wrong, and there is no such thing as a proof of morality;
but if to put oneself first is an inclination natural to man, and if the first sentiment of
justice is moreover inborn in the human heart, let those who say man is a simple creature remove
these contradictions and I will grant that there is but one substance.

You will note that by this term 'substance' I understand generally the being endowed with some
primitive quality, apart from all special and secondary modifications. If then all the primitive
qualities which are known to us can be united in one and the same being, we should only acknowledge
one substance; but if there are qualities which are mutually exclusive, there are as many different
substances as there are such exclusions. You will think this over; for my own part, whatever
Locke may say, it is enough for me to recognise matter as having merely extension and divisibility
to convince myself that it cannot think, and if a philosopher tells me that trees feel and
rocks think [Footnote: It seems to me that modern philosophy, far from saying that rocks think,
has discovered that men do not think. It perceives nothing more in nature than sensitive beings;
and the only difference it finds between a man and a stone is that a man is a sensitive being
which experiences sensations, and a stone is a sensitive being which does not experience sensations.
But if it is true that all matter feels, where shall I find the sensitive unit, the individual
ego? Shall it be in each molecule of matter or in bodies as aggregates of molecules? Shall
I place this unity in fluids and solids alike, in compounds and in elements? You tell me nature
consists of individuals. But what are these individuals? Is that stone an individual or an
aggregate of individuals? Is it a single sensitive being, or are there as many beings in it
as there are grains of sand? If every elementary atom is a sensitive being, how shall I conceive
of that intimate communication by which one feels within the other, so that their two egos
are blended in one? Attraction may be a law of nature whose mystery is unknown to us; but at
least we conceive that there is nothing in attraction acting in proportion to mass which is
contrary to extension and divisibility. Can you conceive of sensation in the same way? The
sensitive parts have extension, but the sensitive being is one and indivisible; he cannot be
cut in two, he is a whole or he is nothing; therefore the sensitive being is not a material
body. I know not how our materialists understand it, but it seems to me that the same difficulties
which have led them to reject thought, should have made them also reject feeling; and I see
no reason why, when the first step has been taken, they should not take the second too; what
more would it cost them? Since they are certain they do not think, why do they dare to affirm
that they feel?] in vain will he perplex me with his cunning arguments; I merely regard him
as a dishonest sophist, who prefers to say that stones have feeling rather than that men have
souls.

Suppose a deaf man denies the existence of sounds because he has never heard them. I put before
his eyes a stringed instrument and cause it to sound in unison by means of another instrument
concealed from him; the deaf man sees the chord vibrate. I tell him, "The sound makes it do
that." "Not at all," says he, "the string itself is the cause of the vibration; to vibrate
in that way is a quality common to all bodies." "Then show me this vibration in other bodies,"
I answer, "or at least show me its cause in this string." "I cannot," replies the deaf man;
"but because I do not understand how that string vibrates why should I try to explain it by
means of your sounds, of which I have not the least idea? It is explaining one obscure fact
by means of a cause still more obscure. Make me perceive your sounds; or I say there are no
such things."

The more I consider thought and the nature of the human mind, the more likeness I find between
the arguments of the materialists and those of the deaf man. Indeed, they are deaf to the inner
voice which cries aloud to them, in a tone which can hardly be mistaken. A machine does not
think, there is neither movement nor form which can produce reflection; something within thee
tries to break the bands which confine it; space is not thy measure, the whole universe does
not suffice to contain thee; thy sentiments, thy desires, thy anxiety, thy pride itself, have
another origin than this small body in which thou art imprisoned.

No material creature is in itself active, and I am active. In vain do you argue this point
with me; I feel it, and it is this feeling which speaks to me more forcibly than the reason
which disputes it. I have a body which is acted upon by other bodies, and it acts in turn upon
them; there is no doubt about this reciprocal action; but my will is independent of my senses;
I consent or I resist; I yield or I win the victory, and I know very well in myself when I
have done what I wanted and when I have merely given way to my passions.  I have always the
power to will, but not always the strength to do what I will. When I yield to temptation I
surrender myself to the action of external objects. When I blame myself for this weakness,
I listen to my own will alone; I am a slave in my vices, a free man in my remorse; the feeling
of freedom is never effaced in me but when I myself do wrong, and when I at length prevent
the voice of the soul from protesting against the authority of the body.

I am only aware of will through the consciousness of my own will, and intelligence is no better
known to me. When you ask me what is the cause which determines my will, it is my turn to ask
what cause determines my judgment; for it is plain that these two causes are but one; and if
you understand clearly that man is active in his judgments, that his intelligence is only the
power to compare and judge, you will see that his freedom is only a similar power or one derived
from this; he chooses between good and evil as he judges between truth and falsehood; if his
judgment is at fault, he chooses amiss. What then is the cause that determines his will? It
is his judgment. And what is the cause that determines his judgment? It is his intelligence,
his power of judging; the determining cause is in himself. Beyond that, I understand nothing.

No doubt I am not free not to desire my own welfare, I am not free to desire my own hurt; but
my freedom consists in this very thing, that I can will what is for my own good, or what I
esteem as such, without any external compulsion. Does it follow that I am not my own master
because I cannot be other than myself?

The motive power of all action is in the will of a free creature; we can go no farther. It
is not the word freedom that is meaningless, but the word necessity. To suppose some action
which is not the effect of an active motive power is indeed to suppose effects without cause,
to reason in a vicious circle. Either there is no original impulse, or every original impulse
has no antecedent cause, and there is no will properly so-called without freedom. Man is therefore
free to act, and as such he is animated by an immaterial substance; that is the third article
of my creed. From these three you will easily deduce the rest, so that I need not enumerate them.

If man is at once active and free, he acts of his own accord; what he does freely is no part
of the system marked out by Providence and it cannot be imputed to Providence. Providence does
not will the evil that man does when he misuses the freedom given to him; neither does Providence
prevent him doing it, either because the wrong done by so feeble a creature is as nothing in
its eyes, or because it could not prevent it without doing a greater wrong and degrading his
nature. Providence has made him free that he may choose the good and refuse the evil. It has
made him capable of this choice if he uses rightly the faculties bestowed upon him, but it
has so strictly limited his powers that the misuse of his freedom cannot disturb the general
order. The evil that man does reacts upon himself without affecting the system of the world,
without preventing the preservation of the human species in spite of itself. To complain that
God does not prevent us from doing wrong is to complain because he has made man of so excellent
a nature, that he has endowed his actions with that morality by which they are ennobled, that
he has made virtue man's birthright. Supreme happiness consists in self-content; that we may
gain this self-content we are placed upon this earth and endowed with freedom, we are tempted
by our passions and restrained by conscience. What more could divine power itself have done
on our behalf? Could it have made our nature a contradiction, and have given the prize of well-doing
to one who was incapable of evil? To prevent a man from wickedness, should Providence have
restricted him to instinct and made him a fool? Not so, O God of my soul, I will never reproach
thee that thou hast created me in thine own image, that I may be free and good and happy like
my Maker!

It is the abuse of our powers that makes us unhappy and wicked. Our cares, our sorrows, our
sufferings are of our own making. Moral ills are undoubtedly the work of man, and physical
ills would be nothing but for our vices which have made us liable to them. Has not nature made
us feel our needs as a means to our preservation! Is not bodily suffering a sign that the machine
is out of order and needs attention? Death.... Do not the wicked poison their own life and
ours? Who would wish to live for ever? Death is the cure for the evils you bring upon yourself;
nature would not have you suffer perpetually. How few sufferings are felt by man living in
a state of primitive simplicity! His life is almost entirely free from suffering and from passion;
he neither fears nor feels death; if he feels it, his sufferings make him desire it; henceforth
it is no evil in his eyes. If we were but content to be ourselves we should have no cause to
complain of our lot; but in the search for an imaginary good we find a thousand real ills.
He who cannot bear a little pain must expect to suffer greatly. If a man injures his constitution
by dissipation, you try to cure him with medicine; the ill he fears is added to the ill he
feels; the thought of death makes it horrible and hastens its approach; the more we seek to
escape from it, the more we are aware of it; and we go through life in the fear of death, blaming
nature for the evils we have inflicted on ourselves by our neglect of her laws.

O Man! seek no further for the author of evil; thou art he. There is no evil but the evil you
do or the evil you suffer, and both come from yourself. Evil in general can only spring from
disorder, and in the order of the world I find a never failing system. Evil in particular cases
exists only in the mind of those who experience it; and this feeling is not the gift of nature,
but the work of man himself. Pain has little power over those who, having thought little, look
neither before nor after. Take away our fatal progress, take away our faults and our vices,
take away man's handiwork, and all is well.

Where all is well, there is no such thing as injustice. Justice and goodness are inseparable;
now goodness is the necessary result of boundless power and of that self-love which is innate
in all sentient beings. The omnipotent projects himself, so to speak, into the being of his
creatures. Creation and preservation are the everlasting work of power; it does not act on
that which has no existence; God is not the God of the dead; he could not harm and destroy
without injury to himself. The omnipotent can only will what is good. [Footnote: The ancients
were right when they called the supreme God Optimus Maximus, but it would have been better
to say Maximus Optimus, for his goodness springs from his power, he is good because he is great.]
Therefore he who is supremely good, because he is supremely powerful, must also be supremely
just, otherwise he would contradict himself; for that love of order which creates order we
call goodness and that love of order which preserves order we call justice.

Men say God owes nothing to his creatures. I think he owes them all he promised when he gave
them their being. Now to give them the idea of something good and to make them feel the need
of it, is to promise it to them. The more closely I study myself, the more carefully I consider,
the more plainly do I read these words, "Be just and you will be happy." It is not so, however,
in the present condition of things, the wicked prospers and the oppression of the righteous
continues. Observe how angry we are when this expectation is disappointed. Conscience revolts
and murmurs against her Creator; she exclaims with cries and groans, "Thou hast deceived me."

"I have deceived thee, rash soul! Who told thee this? Is thy soul destroyed? Hast thou ceased
to exist? O Brutus! O my son! let there be no stain upon the close of thy noble life; do not
abandon thy hope and thy glory with thy corpse upon the plains of Philippi. Why dost thou say,
'Virtue is naught,' when thou art about to enjoy the reward of virtue? Thou art about to die!
Nay, thou shalt live, and thus my promise is fulfilled."

One might judge from the complaints of impatient men that God owes them the reward before they
have deserved it, that he is bound to pay for virtue in advance. Oh! let us first be good and
then we shall be happy. Let us not claim the prize before we have won it, nor demand our wages
before we have finished our work. "It is not in the lists that we crown the victors in the
sacred games," says Plutarch, "it is when they have finished their course."

If the soul is immaterial, it may survive the body; and if it so survives, Providence is justified.
Had I no other proof of the immaterial nature of the soul, the triumph of the wicked and the
oppression of the righteous in this world would be enough to convince me. I should seek to
resolve so appalling a discord in the universal harmony. I should say to myself, "All is not
over with life, everything finds its place at death." I should still have to answer the question,
"What becomes of man when all we know of him through our senses has vanished?" This question
no longer presents any difficulty to me when I admit the two substances. It is easy to understand
that what is imperceptible to those senses escapes me, during my bodily life, when I perceive
through my senses only. When the union of soul and body is destroyed, I think one may be dissolved
and the other may be preserved. Why should the destruction of the one imply the destruction
of the other? On the contrary, so unlike in their nature, they were during their union in a
highly unstable condition, and when this union comes to an end they both return to their natural
state; the active vital substance regains all the force which it expended to set in motion
the passive dead substance. Alas! my vices make me only too well aware that man is but half
alive during this life; the life of the soul only begins with the death of the body.

But what is that life? Is the soul of man in its nature immortal? I know not. My finite understanding
cannot hold the infinite; what is called eternity eludes my grasp. What can I assert or deny,
how can I reason with regard to what I cannot conceive? I believe that the soul survives the
body for the maintenance of order; who knows if this is enough to make it eternal? However,
I know that the body is worn out and destroyed by the division of its parts, but I cannot conceive
a similar destruction of the conscious nature, and as I cannot imagine how it can die, I presume
that it does not die. As this assumption is consoling and in itself not unreasonable, why should
I fear to accept it?

I am aware of my soul; it is known to me in feeling and in thought; I know what it is without
knowing its essence; I cannot reason about ideas which are unknown to me. What I do know is
this, that my personal identity depends upon memory, and that to be indeed the same self I
must remember that I have existed. Now after death I could not recall what I was when alive
unless I also remembered what I felt and therefore what I did; and I have no doubt that this
remembrance will one day form the happiness of the good and the torment of the bad. In this
world our inner consciousness is absorbed by the crowd of eager passions which cheat remorse.
The humiliation and disgrace involved in the practice of virtue do not permit us to realise
its charm. But when, freed from the illusions of the bodily senses, we behold with joy the
supreme Being and the eternal truths which flow from him; when all the powers of our soul are
alive to the beauty of order and we are wholly occupied in comparing what we have done with
what we ought to have done, then it is that the voice of conscience will regain its strength
and sway; then it is that the pure delight which springs from self-content, and the sharp regret
for our own degradation of that self, will decide by means of overpowering feeling what shall
be the fate which each has prepared for himself. My good friend, do not ask me whether there
are other sources of happiness or suffering; I cannot tell; that which my fancy pictures is
enough to console me in this life and to bid me look for a life to come. I do not say the good
will be rewarded, for what greater good can a truly good being expect than to exist in accordance
with his nature? But I do assert that the good will be happy, because their maker, the author
of all justice, who has made them capable of feeling, has not made them that they may suffer;
moreover, they have not abused their freedom upon earth and they have not changed their fate
through any fault of their own; yet they have suffered in this life and it will be made up
to them in the life to come. This feeling relies not so much on man's deserts as on the idea
of good which seems to me inseparable from the divine essence. I only assume that the laws
of order are constant and that God is true to himself.

Do not ask me whether the torments of the wicked will endure for ever, whether the goodness
of their creator can condemn them to the eternal suffering; again, I cannot tell, and I have
no empty curiosity for the investigation of useless problems. How does the fate of the wicked
concern me? I take little interest in it. All the same I find it hard to believe that they
will be condemned to everlasting torments. If the supreme justice calls for vengeance, it claims
it in this life. The nations of the world with their errors are its ministers. Justice uses
self-inflicted ills to punish the crimes which have deserved them. It is in your own insatiable
souls, devoured by envy, greed, and ambition, it is in the midst of your false prosperity,
that the avenging passions find the due reward of your crimes. What need to seek a hell in
the future life? It is here in the breast of the wicked.

When our fleeting needs are over, and our mad desires are at rest, there should also be an
end of our passions and our crimes. Can pure spirits be capable of any perversity? Having need
of nothing, why should they be wicked? If they are free from our gross senses, if their happiness
consists in the contemplation of other beings, they can only desire what is good; and he who
ceases to be bad can never be miserable. This is what I am inclined to think though I have
not been at the pains to come to any decision. O God, merciful and good, whatever thy decrees
may be I adore them; if thou shouldst commit the wicked to everlasting punishment, I abandon
my feeble reason to thy justice; but if the remorse of these wretched beings should in the
course of time be extinguished, if their sufferings should come to an end, and if the same
peace shall one day be the lot of all mankind, I give thanks to thee for this. Is not the wicked
my brother? How often have I been tempted to be like him? Let him be delivered from his misery
and freed from the spirit of hatred that accompanied it; let him be as happy as I myself; his
happiness, far from arousing my jealousy, will only increase my own.

Thus it is that, in the contemplation of God in his works, and in the study of such of his
attributes as it concerned me to know, I have slowly grasped and developed the idea, at first
partial and imperfect, which I have formed of this Infinite Being. But if this idea has become
nobler and greater it is also more suited to the human reason. As I approach in spirit the
eternal light, I am confused and dazzled by its glory, and compelled to abandon all the earthly
notions which helped me to picture it to myself. God is no longer corporeal and sensible; the
supreme mind which rules the world is no longer the world itself; in vain do I strive to grasp
his inconceivable essence. When I think that it is he that gives life and movement to the living
and moving substance which controls all living bodies; when I hear it said that my soul is
spiritual and that God is a spirit, I revolt against this abasement of the divine essence;
as if God and my soul were of one and the same nature! As if God were not the one and only
absolute being, the only really active, feeling, thinking, willing being, from whom we derive
our thought, feeling, motion, will, our freedom and our very existence!  We are free because
he wills our freedom, and his inexplicable substance is to our souls what our souls are to
our bodies. I know not whether he has created matter, body, soul, the world itself. The idea
of creation confounds me and eludes my grasp; so far as I can conceive of it I believe it;
but I know that he has formed the universe and all that is, that he has made and ordered all
things.  No doubt God is eternal; but can my mind grasp the idea of eternity?  Why should I
cheat myself with meaningless words? This is what I do understand; before things were--God
was; he will be when they are no more, and if all things come to an end he will still endure.
That a being beyond my comprehension should give life to other beings, this is merely difficult
and beyond my understanding; but that Being and Nothing should be convertible terms, this is
indeed a palpable contradiction, an evident absurdity.

God is intelligent, but how? Man is intelligent when he reasons, but the Supreme Intelligence
does not need to reason; there is neither premise nor conclusion for him, there is not even
a proposition. The Supreme Intelligence is wholly intuitive, it sees what is and what shall
be; all truths are one for it, as all places are but one point and all time but one moment.
Man's power makes use of means, the divine power is self-active. God can because he wills;
his will is his power. God is good; this is certain; but man finds his happiness in the welfare
of his kind. God's happiness consists in the love of order; for it is through order that he
maintains what is, and unites each part in the whole. God is just; of this I am sure, it is
a consequence of his goodness; man's injustice is not God's work, but his own; that moral justice
which seems to the philosophers a presumption against Providence, is to me a proof of its existence.
But man's justice consists in giving to each his due; God's justice consists in demanding from
each of us an account of that which he has given us.

If I have succeeded in discerning these attributes of which I have no absolute idea, it is
in the form of unavoidable deductions, and by the right use of my reason; but I affirm them
without understanding them, and at bottom that is no affirmation at all. In vain do I say,
God is thus, I feel it, I experience it, none the more do I understand how God can be thus.

In a word: the more I strive to envisage his infinite essence the less do I comprehend it;
but it is, and that is enough for me; the less I understand, the more I adore. I abase myself,
saying, "Being of beings, I am because thou art; to fix my thoughts on thee is to ascend to
the source of my being. The best use I can make of my reason is to resign it before thee; my
mind delights, my weakness rejoices, to feel myself overwhelmed by thy greatness."

Having thus deduced from the perception of objects of sense and from my inner consciousness,
which leads me to judge of causes by my native reason, the principal truths which I require
to know, I must now seek such principles of conduct as I can draw from them, and such rules
as I must lay down for my guidance in the fulfilment of my destiny in this world, according
to the purpose of my Maker. Still following the same method, I do not derive these rules from
the principles of the higher philosophy, I find them in the depths of my heart, traced by nature
in characters which nothing can efface. I need only consult myself with regard to what I wish
to do; what I feel to be right is right, what I feel to be wrong is wrong; conscience is the
best casuist; and it is only when we haggle with conscience that we have recourse to the subtleties
of argument. Our first duty is towards ourself; yet how often does the voice of others tell
us that in seeking our good at the expense of others we are doing ill? We think we are following
the guidance of nature, and we are resisting it; we listen to what she says to our senses,
and we neglect what she says to our heart; the active being obeys, the passive commands. Conscience
is the voice of the soul, the passions are the voice of the body. It is strange that these
voices often contradict each other? And then to which should we give heed? Too often does reason
deceive us; we have only too good a right to doubt her; but conscience never deceives us; she
is the true guide of man; it is to the soul what instinct is to the body, [Footnote: Modern
philosophy, which only admits what it can understand, is careful not to admit this obscure
power called instinct which seems to guide the animals to some end without any acquired experience.
Instinct, according to some of our wise philosophers, is only a secret habit of reflection,
acquired by reflection; and from the way in which they explain this development one ought to
suppose that children reflect more than grown-up people: a paradox strange enough to be worth
examining. Without entering upon this discussion I must ask what name I shall give to the eagerness
with which my dog makes war on the moles he does not eat, or to the patience with which he
sometimes watches them for hours and the skill with which he seizes them, throws them to a
distance from their earth as soon as they emerge, and then kills them and leaves them. Yet
no one has trained him to this sport, nor even told him there were such things as moles. Again,
I ask, and this is a more important question, why, when I threatened this same dog for the
first time, why did he throw himself on the ground with his paws folded, in such a suppliant
attitude .....calculated to touch me, a position which he would have maintained if, without
being touched by it, I had continued to beat him in that position? What! Had my dog, little
more than a puppy, acquired moral ideas? Did he know the meaning of mercy and generosity? By
what acquired knowledge did he seek to appease my wrath by yielding to my discretion? Every
dog in the world does almost the same thing in similar circumstances, and I am asserting nothing
but what any one can verify for himself. Will the philosophers, who so scornfully reject instinct,
kindly explain this fact by the mere play of sensations and experience which they assume we
have acquired? Let them give an account of it which will satisfy any sensible man; in that
case I have nothing further to urge, and I will say no more of instinct.] he who obeys his
conscience is following nature and he need not fear that he will go astray. This is a matter
of great importance, continued my benefactor, seeing that I was about to interrupt him; let
me stop awhile to explain it more fully.

The morality of our actions consists entirely in the judgments we ourselves form with regard
to them. If good is good, it must be good in the depth of our heart as well as in our actions;
and the first reward of justice is the consciousness that we are acting justly. If moral goodness
is in accordance with our nature, man can only be healthy in mind and body when he is good.
If it is not so, and if man is by nature evil, he cannot cease to be evil without corrupting
his nature, and goodness in him is a crime against nature. If he is made to do harm to his
fellow-creatures, as the wolf is made to devour his prey, a humane man would be as depraved
a creature as a pitiful wolf; and virtue alone would cause remorse.

My young friend, let us look within, let us set aside all personal prejudices and see whither
our inclinations lead us. Do we take more pleasure in the sight of the sufferings of others
or their joys? Is it pleasanter to do a kind action or an unkind action, and which leaves the
more delightful memory behind it? Why do you enjoy the theatre? Do you delight in the crimes
you behold? Do you weep over the punishment which overtakes the criminal? They say we are indifferent
to everything but self-interest; yet we find our consolation in our sufferings in the charms
of friendship and humanity, and even in our pleasures we should be too lonely and miserable
if we had no one to share them with us. If there is no such thing as morality in man's heart,
what is the source of his rapturous admiration of noble deeds, his passionate devotion to great
men? What connection is there between self-interest and this enthusiasm for virtue? Why should
I choose to be Cato dying by his own hand, rather than Caesar in his triumphs? Take from our
hearts this love of what is noble and you rob us of the joy of life. The mean-spirited man
in whom these delicious feelings have been stifled among vile passions, who by thinking of
no one but himself comes at last to love no one but himself, this man feels no raptures, his
cold heart no longer throbs with joy, and his eyes no longer fill with the sweet tears of sympathy,
he delights in nothing; the wretch has neither life nor feeling, he is already dead.

There are many bad men in this world, but there are few of these dead souls, alive only to
self-interest, and insensible to all that is right and good. We only delight in injustice so
long as it is to our own advantage; in every other case we wish the innocent to be protected.
If we see some act of violence or injustice in town or country, our hearts are at once stirred
to their depths by an instinctive anger and wrath, which bids us go to the help of the oppressed;
but we are restrained by a stronger duty, and the law deprives us of our right to protect the
innocent. On the other hand, if some deed of mercy or generosity meets our eye, what reverence
and love does it inspire! Do we not say to ourselves, "I should like to have done that myself"?
What does it matter to us that two thousand years ago a man was just or unjust? and yet we
take the same interest in ancient history as if it happened yesterday. What are the crimes
of Cataline to me? I shall not be his victim. Why then have I the same horror of his crimes
as if he were living now?  We do not hate the wicked merely because of the harm they do to
ourselves, but because they are wicked. Not only do we wish to be happy ourselves, we wish
others to be happy too, and if this happiness does not interfere with our own happiness, it
increases it. In conclusion, whether we will or not, we pity the unfortunate; when we see their
suffering we suffer too. Even the most depraved are not wholly without this instinct, and it
often leads them to self-contradiction. The highwayman who robs the traveller, clothes the
nakedness of the poor; the fiercest murderer supports a fainting man.

Men speak of the voice of remorse, the secret punishment of hidden crimes, by which such are
often brought to light. Alas! who does not know its unwelcome voice? We speak from experience,
and we would gladly stifle this imperious feeling which causes us such agony. Let us obey the
call of nature; we shall see that her yoke is easy and that when we give heed to her voice
we find a joy in the answer of a good conscience. The wicked fears and flees from her; he delights
to escape from himself; his anxious eyes look around him for some object of diversion; without
bitter satire and rude mockery he would always be sorrowful; the scornful laugh is his one
pleasure. Not so the just man, who finds his peace within himself; there is joy not malice
in his laughter, a joy which springs from his own heart; he is as cheerful alone as in company,
his satisfaction does not depend on those who approach him; it includes them.

Cast your eyes over every nation of the world; peruse every volume of its history; in the midst
of all these strange and cruel forms of worship, among this amazing variety of manners and
customs, you will everywhere find the same ideas of right and justice; everywhere the same
principles of morality, the same ideas of good and evil. The old paganism gave birth to abominable
gods who would have been punished as scoundrels here below, gods who merely offered, as a picture
of supreme happiness, crimes to be committed and lust to be gratified. But in vain did vice
descend from the abode of the gods armed with their sacred authority; the moral instinct refused
to admit it into the heart of man. While the debaucheries of Jupiter were celebrated, the continence
of Xenocrates was revered; the chaste Lucrece adored the shameless Venus; the bold Roman offered
sacrifices to Fear; he invoked the god who mutilated his father, and he died without a murmur
at the hand of his own father. The most unworthy gods were worshipped by the noblest men. The
sacred voice of nature was stronger than the voice of the gods, and won reverence upon earth;
it seemed to relegate guilt and the guilty alike to heaven.

There is therefore at the bottom of our hearts an innate principle of justice and virtue, by
which, in spite of our maxims, we judge our own actions or those of others to be good or evil;
and it is this principle that I call conscience.

But at this word I hear the murmurs of all the wise men so-called. Childish errors, prejudices
of our upbringing, they exclaim in concert! There is nothing in the human mind but what it
has gained by experience; and we judge everything solely by means of the ideas we have acquired.
They go further; they even venture to reject the clear and universal agreement of all peoples,
and to set against this striking unanimity in the judgment of mankind, they seek out some obscure
exception known to themselves alone; as if the whole trend of nature were rendered null by
the depravity of a single nation, and as if the existence of monstrosities made an end of species.
But to what purpose does the sceptic Montaigne strive himself to unearth in some obscure corner
of the world a custom which is contrary to the ideas of justice? To what purpose does he credit
the most untrustworthy travellers, while he refuses to believe the greatest writers? A few
strange and doubtful customs, based on local causes, unknown to us; shall these destroy a general
inference based on the agreement of all the nations of the earth, differing from each other
in all else, but agreed in this? O Montaigne, you pride yourself on your truth and honesty;
be sincere and truthful, if a philosopher can be so, and tell me if there is any country upon
earth where it is a crime to keep one's plighted word, to be merciful, helpful, and generous,
where the good man is scorned, and the traitor is held in honour.

Self-interest, so they say, induces each of us to agree for the common good. But bow is it
that the good man consents to this to his own hurt? Does a man go to death from self-interest?
No doubt each man acts for his own good, but if there is no such thing as moral good to be
taken into consideration, self-interest will only enable you to account for the deeds of the
wicked; possibly you will not attempt to do more. A philosophy which could find no place for
good deeds would be too detestable; you would find yourself compelled either to find some mean
purpose, some wicked motive, or to abuse Socrates and slander Regulus. If such doctrines ever
took root among us, the voice of nature, together with the voice of reason, would constantly
protest against them, till no adherent of such teaching could plead an honest excuse for his
partisanship.

It is no part of my scheme to enter at present into metaphysical discussions which neither
you nor I can understand, discussions which really lead nowhere. I have told you already that
I do not wish to philosophise with you, but to help you to consult your own heart. If all the
philosophers in the world should prove that I am wrong, and you feel that I am right, that
is all I ask.

For this purpose it is enough to lead you to distinguish between our acquired ideas and our
natural feelings; for feeling precedes knowledge; and since we do not learn to seek what is
good for us and avoid what is bad for us, but get this desire from nature, in the same way
the love of good and the hatred of evil are as natural to us as our self-love. The decrees
of conscience are not judgments but feelings. Although all our ideas come from without, the
feelings by which they are weighed are within us, and it is by these feelings alone that we
perceive fitness or unfitness of things in relation to ourselves, which leads us to seek or
shun these things.

To exist is to feel; our feeling is undoubtedly earlier than our intelligence, and we had feelings
before we had ideas.[Footnote: In some respects ideas are feelings and feelings are ideas.
Both terms are appropriate to any perception with which we are concerned, appropriate both
to the object of that perception and to ourselves who are affected by it; it is merely the
order in which we are affected which decides the appropriate term. When we are chiefly concerned
with the object and only think of ourselves as it were by reflection, that is an idea; when,
on the other hand, the impression received excites our chief attention and we only think in
the second place of the object which caused it, it is a feeling.] Whatever may be the cause
of our being, it has provided for our preservation by giving us feelings suited to our nature;
and no one can deny that these at least are innate. These feelings, so far as the individual
is concerned, are self-love, fear, pain, the dread of death, the desire for comfort. Again,
if, as it is impossible to doubt, man is by nature sociable, or at least fitted to become sociable,
he can only be so by means of other innate feelings, relative to his kind; for if only physical
well-being were considered, men would certainly be scattered rather than brought together.
But the motive power of conscience is derived from the moral system formed through this twofold
relation to himself and to his fellow-men. To know good is not to love it; this knowledge is
not innate in man; but as soon as his reason leads him to perceive it, his conscience impels
him to love it; it is this feeling which is innate.

So I do not think, my young friend, that it is impossible to explain the immediate force of
conscience as a result of our own nature, independent of reason itself. And even should it
be impossible, it is unnecessary; for those who deny this principle, admitted and received
by everybody else in the world, do not prove that there is no such thing; they are content
to affirm, and when we affirm its existence we have quite as good grounds as they, while we
have moreover the witness within us, the voice of conscience, which speaks on its own behalf.
If the first beams of judgment dazzle us and confuse the objects we behold, let us wait till
our feeble sight grows clear and strong, and in the light of reason we shall soon behold these
very objects as nature has already showed them to us.  Or rather let us be simpler and less
pretentious; let us be content with the first feelings we experience in ourselves, since science
always brings us back to these, unless it has led us astray.

Conscience! Conscience! Divine instinct, immortal voice from heaven; sure guide for a creature
ignorant and finite indeed, yet intelligent and free; infallible judge of good and evil, making
man like to God! In thee consists the excellence of man's nature and the morality of his actions;
apart from thee, I find nothing in myself to raise me above the beasts--nothing but the sad
privilege of wandering from one error to another, by the help of an unbridled understanding
and a reason which knows no principle.

Thank heaven we have now got rid of all that alarming show of philosophy; we may be men without
being scholars; now that we need not spend our life in the study of morality, we have found
a less costly and surer guide through this vast labyrinth of human thought. But it is not enough
to be aware that there is such a guide; we must know her and follow her. If she speaks to all
hearts, how is it that so few give heed to her voice? She speaks to us in the language of nature,
and everything leads us to forget that tongue. Conscience is timid, she loves peace and retirement;
she is startled by noise and numbers; the prejudices from which she is said to arise are her
worst enemies. She flees before them or she is silent; their noisy voices drown her words,
so that she cannot get a hearing; fanaticism dares to counterfeit her voice and to inspire
crimes in her name.  She is discouraged by ill-treatment; she no longer speaks to us, no longer
answers to our call; when she has been scorned so long, it is as hard to recall her as it was
to banish her.

How often in the course of my inquiries have I grown weary of my own coldness of heart! How
often have grief and weariness poured their poison into my first meditations and made them
hateful to me! My barren heart yielded nothing but a feeble zeal and a lukewarm love of truth.
I said to myself: Why should I strive to find what does not exist? Moral good is a dream, the
pleasures of sense are the only real good. When once we have lost the taste for the pleasures
of the soul, how hard it is to recover it! How much more difficult to acquire it if we have
never possessed it! If there were any man so wretched as never to have done anything all his
life long which he could remember with pleasure, and which would make him glad to have lived,
that man would be incapable of self-knowledge, and for want of knowledge of goodness, of which
his nature is capable, he would be constrained to remain in his wickedness and would be for
ever miserable. But do you think there is any one man upon earth so depraved that he has never
yielded to the temptation of well-doing?  This temptation is so natural, so pleasant, that
it is impossible always to resist it; and the thought of the pleasure it has once afforded
is enough to recall it constantly to our memory. Unluckily it is hard at first to find satisfaction
for it; we have any number of reasons for refusing to follow the inclinations of our heart;
prudence, so called, restricts the heart within the limits of the self; a thousand efforts
are needed to break these bonds. The joy of well-doing is the prize of having done well, and
we must deserve the prize before we win it. There is nothing sweeter than virtue; but we do
not know this till we have tried it. Like Proteus in the fable, she first assumes a thousand
terrible shapes when we would embrace her, and only shows her true self to those who refuse
to let her go.

Ever at strife between my natural feelings, which spoke of the common weal, and my reason,
which spoke of self, I should have drifted through life in perpetual uncertainty, hating evil,
loving good, and always at war with myself, if my heart had not received further light, if
that truth which determined my opinions had not also settled my conduct, and set me at peace
with myself. Reason alone is not a sufficient foundation for virtue; what solid ground can
be found? Virtue we are told is love of order. But can this love prevail over my love for my
own well-being, and ought it so to prevail? Let them give me clear and sufficient reason for
this preference. Their so-called principle is in truth a mere playing with words; for I also
say that vice is love of order, differently understood. Wherever there is feeling and intelligence,
there is some sort of moral order. The difference is this: the good man orders his life with
regard to all men; the wicked orders it for self alone. The latter centres all things round
himself; the other measures his radius and remains on the circumference. Thus his place depends
on the common centre, which is God, and on all the concentric circles which are His creatures.
If there is no God, the wicked is right and the good man is nothing but a fool.

My child! May you one day feel what a burden is removed when, having fathomed the vanity of
human thoughts and tasted the bitterness of passion, you find at length near at hand the path
of wisdom, the prize of this life's labours, the source of that happiness which you despaired
of. Every duty of natural law, which man's injustice had almost effaced from my heart, is engraven
there, for the second time in the name of that eternal justice which lays these duties upon
me and beholds my fulfilment of them. I feel myself merely the instrument of the Omnipotent,
who wills what is good, who performs it, who will bring about my own good through the co-operation
of my will with his own, and by the right use of my liberty. I acquiesce in the order he establishes,
certain that one day I shall enjoy that order and find my happiness in it; for what sweeter
joy is there than this, to feel oneself a part of a system where all is good? A prey to pain,
I bear it in patience, remembering that it will soon be over, and that it results from a body
which is not mine. If I do a good deed in secret, I know that it is seen, and my conduct in
this life is a pledge of the life to come. When I suffer injustice, I say to myself, the Almighty
who does all things well will reward me: my bodily needs, my poverty, make the idea of death
less intolerable. There will be all the fewer bonds to be broken when my hour comes.

Why is my soul subjected to my senses, and imprisoned in this body by which it is enslaved
and thwarted? I know not; have I entered into the counsels of the Almighty? But I may, without
rashness, venture on a modest conjecture. I say to myself: If man's soul had remained in a
state of freedom and innocence, what merit would there have been in loving and obeying the
order he found established, an order which it would not have been to his advantage to disturb?
He would be happy, no doubt, but his happiness would not attain to the highest point, the pride
of virtue, and the witness of a good conscience within him; he would be but as the angels are,
and no doubt the good man will be more than they. Bound to a mortal body, by bonds as strange
as they are powerful, his care for the preservation of this body tempts the soul to think only
of self, and gives it an interest opposed to the general order of things, which it is still
capable of knowing and loving; then it is that the right use of his freedom becomes at once
the merit and the reward; then it is that it prepares for itself unending happiness, by resisting
its earthly passions and following its original direction.

If even in the lowly position in which we are placed during our present life our first impulses
are always good, if all our vices are of our own making, why should we complain that they are
our masters? Why should we blame the Creator for the ills we have ourselves created, and the
enemies we ourselves have armed against us? Oh, let us leave man unspoilt; he will always find
it easy to be good and he will always be happy without remorse. The guilty, who assert that
they are driven to crime, are liars as well as evil-doers; how is it that they fail to perceive
that the weakness they bewail is of their own making; that their earliest depravity was the
result of their own will; that by dint of wishing to yield to temptations, they at length yield
to them whether they will or no and make them irresistible? No doubt they can no longer avoid
being weak and wicked, but they need not have become weak and wicked. Oh, how easy would it
be to preserve control of ourselves and of our passions, even in this life, if with habits
still unformed, with a mind beginning to expand, we were able to keep to such things as we
ought to know, in order to value rightly what is unknown; if we really wished to learn, not
that we might shine before the eyes of others, but that we might be wise and good in accordance
with our nature, that we might be happy in the performance of our duty. This study seems tedious
and painful to us, for we do not attempt it till we are already corrupted by vice and enslaved
by our passions. Our judgments and our standards of worth are determined before we have the
knowledge of good and evil; and then we measure all things by this false standard, and give
nothing its true worth.

There is an age when the heart is still free, but eager, unquiet, greedy of a happiness which
is still unknown, a happiness which it seeks in curiosity and doubt; deceived by the senses
it settles at length upon the empty show of happiness and thinks it has found it where it is
not. In my own case these illusions endured for a long time. Alas! too late did I become aware
of them, and I have not succeeded in overcoming them altogether; they will last as long as
this mortal body from which they arise. If they lead me astray, I am at least no longer deceived
by them; I know them for what they are, and even when I give way to them, I despise myself;
far from regarding them as the goal of my happiness, I behold in them an obstacle to it. I
long for the time when, freed from the fetters of the body, I shall be myself, at one with
myself, no longer torn in two, when I myself shall suffice for my own happiness. Meanwhile
I am happy even in this life, for I make small account of all its evils, in which I regard
myself as having little or no part, while all the real good that I can get out of this life
depends on myself alone.

To raise myself so far as may be even now to this state of happiness, strength, and freedom,
I exercise myself in lofty contemplation. I consider the order of the universe, not to explain
it by any futile system, but to revere it without ceasing, to adore the wise Author who reveals
himself in it. I hold intercourse with him; I immerse all my powers in his divine essence;
I am overwhelmed by his kindness, I bless him and his gifts, but I do not pray to him. What
should I ask of him--to change the order of nature, to work miracles on my behalf? Should I,
who am bound to love above all things the order which he has established in his wisdom and
maintained by his providence, should I desire the disturbance of that order on my own account?
No, that rash prayer would deserve to be punished rather than to be granted. Neither do I ask
of him the power to do right; why should I ask what he has given me already?  Has he not given
me conscience that I may love the right, reason that I may perceive it, and freedom that I
may choose it? If I do evil, I have no excuse; I do it of my own free will; to ask him to change
my will is to ask him to do what he asks of me; it is to want him to do the work while I get
the wages; to be dissatisfied with my lot is to wish to be no longer a man, to wish to be other
than what I am, to wish for disorder and evil. Thou source of justice and truth, merciful and
gracious God, in thee do I trust, and the desire of my heart is--Thy will be done. When I unite
my will with thine, I do what thou doest; I have a share in thy goodness; I believe that I
enjoy beforehand the supreme happiness which is the reward of goodness.

In my well-founded self-distrust the only thing that I ask of God, or rather expect from his
justice, is to correct my error if I go astray, if that error is dangerous to me. To be honest
I need not think myself infallible; my opinions, which seem to me true, may be so many lies;
for what man is there who does not cling to his own beliefs; and how many men are agreed in
everything? The illusion which deceives me may indeed have its source in myself, but it is
God alone who can remove it. I have done all I can to attain to truth; but its source is beyond
my reach; is it my fault if my strength fails me and I can go no further; it is for Truth to
draw near to me.

The good priest had spoken with passion; he and I were overcome with emotion. It seemed to
me as if I were listening to the divine Orpheus when he sang the earliest hymns and taught
men the worship of the gods. I saw any number of objections which might be raised; yet I raised
none, for I perceived that they were more perplexing than serious, and that my inclination
took his part. When he spoke to me according to his conscience, my own seemed to confirm what
he said.

"The novelty of the sentiments you have made known to me," said I, "strikes me all the more
because of what you confess you do not know, than because of what you say you believe. They
seem to be very like that theism or natural religion, which Christians profess to confound
with atheism or irreligion which is their exact opposite. But in the present state of my faith
I should have to ascend rather than descend to accept your views, and I find it difficult to
remain just where you are unless I were as wise as you. That I may be at least as honest, I
want time to take counsel with myself. By your own showing, the inner voice must be my guide,
and you have yourself told me that when it has long been silenced it cannot be recalled in
a moment. I take what you have said to heart, and I must consider it. If after I have thought
things out, I am as convinced as you are, you will be my final teacher, and I will be your
disciple till death. Continue your teaching however; you have only told me half what I must
know. Speak to me of revelation, of the Scriptures, of those difficult doctrines among which
I have strayed ever since I was a child, incapable either of understanding or believing them,
unable to adopt or reject them."

"Yes, my child," said he, embracing me, "I will tell you all I think; I will not open my heart
to you by halves; but the desire you express was necessary before I could cast aside all reserve.
So far I have told you nothing but what I thought would be of service to you, nothing but what
I was quite convinced of. The inquiry which remains to be made is very difficult. It seems
to me full of perplexity, mystery, and darkness; I bring to it only doubt and distrust. I make
up my mind with trembling, and I tell you my doubts rather than my convictions. If your own
opinions were more settled I should hesitate to show you mine; but in your present condition,
to think like me would be gain. [Footnote: I think the worthy clergyman might say this at the
present time to the general public.] Moreover, give to my words only the authority of reason;
I know not whether I am mistaken. It is difficult in discussion to avoid assuming sometimes
a dogmatic tone; but remember in this respect that all my assertions are but reasons to doubt
me. Seek truth for yourself, for my own part I only promise you sincerity.

"In my exposition you find nothing but natural religion; strange that we should need more!
How shall I become aware of this need? What guilt can be mine so long as I serve God according
to the knowledge he has given to my mind, and the feelings he has put into my heart? What purity
of morals, what dogma useful to man and worthy of its author, can I derive from a positive
doctrine which cannot be derived without the aid of this doctrine by the right use of my faculties?
Show me what you can add to the duties of the natural law, for the glory of God, for the good
of mankind, and for my own welfare; and what virtue you will get from the new form of religion
which does not result from mine. The grandest ideas of the Divine nature come to us from reason
only. Behold the spectacle of nature; listen to the inner voice. Has not God spoken it all
to our eyes, to our conscience, to our reason? What more can man tell us? Their revelations
do but degrade God, by investing him with passions like our own. Far from throwing light upon
the ideas of the Supreme Being, special doctrines seem to me to confuse these ideas; far from
ennobling them, they degrade them; to the inconceivable mysteries which surround the Almighty,
they add absurd contradictions, they make man proud, intolerant, and cruel; instead of bringing
peace upon earth, they bring fire and sword. I ask myself what is the use of it all, and I
find no answer. I see nothing but the crimes of men and the misery of mankind.

"They tell me a revelation was required to teach men how God would be served; as a proof of
this they point to the many strange rites which men have instituted, and they do not perceive
that this very diversity springs from the fanciful nature of the revelations. As soon as the
nations took to making God speak, every one made him speak in his own fashion, and made him
say what he himself wanted. Had they listened only to what God says in the heart of man, there
would have been but one religion upon earth.

"One form of worship was required; just so, but was this a matter of such importance as to
require all the power of the Godhead to establish it? Do not let us confuse the outward forms
of religion with religion itself. The service God requires is of the heart; and when the heart
is sincere that is ever the same. It is a strange sort of conceit which fancies that God takes
such an interest in the shape of the priest's vestments, the form of words he utters, the gestures
he makes before the altar and all his genuflections. Oh, my friend, stand upright, you will
still be too near the earth. God desires to be worshipped in spirit and in truth; this duty
belongs to every religion, every country, every individual. As to the form of worship, if order
demands uniformity, that is only a matter of discipline and needs no revelation.

"These thoughts did not come to me to begin with. Carried away by the prejudices of my education,
and by that dangerous vanity which always strives to lift man out of his proper sphere, when
I could not raise my feeble thoughts up to the great Being, I tried to bring him down to my
own level. I tried to reduce the distance he has placed between his nature and mine. I desired
more immediate relations, more individual instruction; not content to make God in the image
of man that I might be favoured above my fellows, I desired supernatural knowledge; I required
a special form of worship; I wanted God to tell me what he had not told others, or what others
had not understood like myself.

"Considering the point I had now reached as the common centre from which all believers set
out on the quest for a more enlightened form of religion, I merely found in natural religion
the elements of all religion. I beheld the multitude of diverse sects which hold sway upon
earth, each of which accuses the other of falsehood and error; which of these, I asked, is
the right? Every one replied, 'My own;' every one said, 'I alone and those who agree with me
think rightly, all the others are mistaken.' And how do you know that your sect is in the right?
Because God said so. And how do you know God said so?  [Footnote: "All men," said a wise and
good priest, "maintain that they hold and believe their religion (and all use the same jargon),
not of man, nor of any creature, but of God. But to speak truly, without pretence or flattery,
none of them do so; whatever they may say, religions are taught by human hands and means; take,
for example, the way in which religions have been received by the world, the way in which they
are still received every day by individuals; the nation, the country, the locality gives the
religion; we belong to the religion of the place where we are born and brought up; we are baptised
or circumcised, we are Christians, Jews, Mohametans before we know that we are men; we do not
pick and choose our religion for see how ill the life and conduct agree with the religion,
see for what slight and human causes men go against the teaching of their religion."--Charron,
De la Sagesse.--It seems clear that the honest creed of the holy theologian of Condom would
not have differed greatly from that of the Savoyard priest.] And who told you that God said
it? My pastor, who knows all about it. My pastor tells me what to believe and I believe it;
he assures me that any one who says anything else is mistaken, and I give not heed to them.

"What! thought I, is not truth one; can that which is true for me be false for you? If those
who follow the right path and those who go astray have the same method, what merit or what
blame can be assigned to one more than to the other? Their choice is the result of chance;
it is unjust to hold them responsible for it, to reward or punish them for being born in one
country or another. To dare to say that God judges us in this manner is an outrage on his justice.

"Either all religions are good and pleasing to God, or if there is one which he prescribes
for men, if they will be punished for despising it, he will have distinguished it by plain
and certain signs by which it can be known as the only true religion; these signs are alike
in every time and place, equally plain to all men, great or small, learned or unlearned, Europeans,
Indians, Africans, savages. If there were but one religion upon earth, and if all beyond its
pale were condemned to eternal punishment, and if there were in any corner of the world one
single honest man who was not convinced by this evidence, the God of that religion would be
the most unjust and cruel of tyrants.

"Let us therefore seek honestly after truth; let us yield nothing to the claims of birth, to
the authority of parents and pastors, but let us summon to the bar of conscience and of reason
all that they have taught us from our childhood. In vain do they exclaim, 'Submit your reason;'
a deceiver might say as much; I must have reasons for submitting my reason.

"All the theology I can get for myself by observation of the universe and by the use of my
faculties is contained in what I have already told you. To know more one must have recourse
to strange means. These means cannot be the authority of men, for every man is of the same
species as myself, and all that a man knows by nature I am capable of knowing, and another
may be deceived as much as I; when I believe what he says, it is not because he says it but
because he proves its truth. The witness of man is therefore nothing more than the witness
of my own reason, and it adds nothing to the natural means which God has given me for the knowledge
of truth.

"Apostle of truth, what have you to tell me of which I am not the sole judge? God himself has
spoken; give heed to his revelation. That is another matter. God has spoken, these are indeed
words which demand attention. To whom has he spoken? He has spoken to men. Why then have I
heard nothing? He has instructed others to make known his words to you. I understand; it is
men who come and tell me what God has said. I would rather have heard the words of God himself;
it would have been as easy for him and I should have been secure from fraud. He protects you
from fraud by showing that his envoys come from him. How does he show this? By miracles. Where
are these miracles? In the books. And who wrote the books? Men. And who saw the miracles? The
men who bear witness to them. What! Nothing but human testimony! Nothing but men who tell me
what others told them!  How many men between God and me! Let us see, however, let us examine,
compare, and verify. Oh! if God had but deigned to free me from all this labour, I would have
served him with all my heart.

"Consider, my friend, the terrible controversy in which I am now engaged; what vast learning
is required to go back to the remotest antiquity, to examine, weigh, confront prophecies, revelations,
facts, all the monuments of faith set forth throughout the world, to assign their date, place,
authorship, and occasion. What exactness of critical judgment is needed to distinguish genuine
documents from forgeries, to compare objections with their answers, translations with their
originals; to decide as to the impartiality of witnesses, their common-sense, their knowledge;
to make sure that nothing has been omitted, nothing added, nothing transposed, altered, or
falsified; to point out any remaining contradictions, to determine what weight should be given
to the silence of our adversaries with regard to the charges brought against them; how far
were they aware of those charges; did they think them sufficiently serious to require an answer;
were books sufficiently well known for our books to reach them; have we been honest enough
to allow their books to circulate among ourselves and to leave their strongest objections unaltered?

"When the authenticity of all these documents is accepted, we must now pass to the evidence
of their authors' mission; we must know the laws of chance, and probability, to decide which
prophecy cannot be fulfilled without a miracle; we must know the spirit of the original languages,
to distinguish between prophecy and figures of speech; we must know what facts are in accordance
with nature and what facts are not, so that we may say how far a clever man may deceive the
eyes of the simple and may even astonish the learned; we must discover what are the characteristics
of a prodigy and how its authenticity may be established, not only so far as to gain credence,
but so that doubt may be deserving of punishment; we must compare the evidence for true and
false miracles, and find sure tests to distinguish between them; lastly we must say why God
chose as a witness to his words means which themselves require so much evidence on their behalf,
as if he were playing with human credulity, and avoiding of set purpose the true means of persuasion.

"Assuming that the divine majesty condescends so far as to make a man the channel of his sacred
will, is it reasonable, is it fair, to demand that the whole of mankind should obey the voice
of this minister without making him known as such? Is it just to give him as his sole credentials
certain private signs, performed in the presence of a few obscure persons, signs which everybody
else can only know by hearsay? If one were to believe all the miracles that the uneducated
and credulous profess to have seen in every country upon earth, every sect would be in the
right; there would be more miracles than ordinary events; and it would be the greatest miracle
if there were no miracles wherever there were persecuted fanatics. The unchangeable order of
nature is the chief witness to the wise hand that guides it; if there were many exceptions,
I should hardly know what to think; for my own part I have too great a faith in God to believe
in so many miracles which are so little worthy of him.

"Let a man come and say to us: Mortals, I proclaim to you the will of the Most Highest; accept
my words as those of him who has sent me; I bid the sun to change his course, the stars to
range themselves in a fresh order, the high places to become smooth, the floods to rise up,
the earth to change her face. By these miracles who will not recognise the master of nature?
She does not obey impostors, their miracles are wrought in holes and corners, in deserts, within
closed doors, where they find easy dupes among a small company of spectators already disposed
to believe them. Who will venture to tell me how many eye-witnesses are required to make a
miracle credible! What use are your miracles, performed if proof of your doctrine, if they
themselves require so much proof! You might as well have let them alone.

"There still remains the most important inquiry of all with regard to the doctrine proclaimed;
for since those who tell us God works miracles in this world, profess that the devil sometimes
imitates them, when we have found the best attested miracles we have got very little further;
and since the magicians of Pharaoh dared in the presence of Moses to counterfeit the very signs
he wrought at God's command, why should they not, behind his back, claim a like authority?
So when we have proved our doctrine by means of miracles, we must prove our miracles by means
of doctrine, [Footnote: This is expressly stated in many passages of Scripture, among others
in Deuteronomy xiii., where it is said that when a prophet preaching strange gods confirms
his words by means of miracles and what he foretells comes to pass, far from giving heed to
him, this prophet must be put to death. If then the heathen put the apostles to death when
they preached a strange god and confirmed their words by miracles which came to pass I cannot
see what grounds we have for complaint which they could not at once turn against us. Now, what
should be done in such a case? There is only one course; to return to argument and let the
miracles alone. It would have been better not to have had recourse to them at all. That is
plain common-sense which can only be obscured by great subtlety of distinction.  Subtleties
in Christianity! So Jesus Christ was mistaken when he promised the kingdom of heaven to the
simple, he was mistaken when he began his finest discourse with the praise of the poor in spirit,
if so much wit is needed to understand his teaching and to get others to believe in him. When
you have convinced me that submission is my duty, all will be well; but to convince me of this,
come down to my level; adapt your arguments to a lowly mind, or I shall not recognise you as
a true disciple of your master, and it is not his doctrine that you are teaching me.] for fear
lest we should take the devil's doings for the handiwork of God. What think you of this dilemma?

"This doctrine, if it comes from God, should bear the sacred stamp of the godhead; not only
should it illumine the troubled thoughts which reason imprints on our minds, but it should
also offer us a form of worship, a morality, and rules of conduct in accordance with the attributes
by means of which we alone conceive of God's essence.  If then it teaches us what is absurd
and unreasonable, if it inspires us with feelings of aversion for our fellows and terror for
ourselves, if it paints us a God, angry, jealous, revengeful, partial, hating men, a God of
war and battles, ever ready to strike and to destroy, ever speaking of punishment and torment,
boasting even of the punishment of the innocent, my heart would not be drawn towards this terrible
God, I would take good care not to quit the realm of natural religion to embrace such a religion
as that; for you see plainly I must choose between them. Your God is not ours. He who begins
by selecting a chosen people, and proscribing the rest of mankind, is not our common father;
he who consigns to eternal punishment the greater part of his creatures, is not the merciful
and gracious God revealed to me by my reason.

"Reason tells me that dogmas should be plain, clear, and striking in their simplicity. If there
is something lacking in natural religion, it is with respect to the obscurity in which it leaves
the great truths it teaches; revelation should teach us these truths in a way which the mind
of man can understand; it should bring them within his reach, make him comprehend them, so
that he may believe them.  Faith is confirmed and strengthened by understanding; the best religion
is of necessity the simplest. He who hides beneath mysteries and contradictions the religion
that he preaches to me, teaches me at the same time to distrust that religion. The God whom
I adore is not the God of darkness, he has not given me understanding in order to forbid me
to use it; to tell me to submit my reason is to insult the giver of reason. The minister of
truth does not tyrannise over my reason, he enlightens it.

"We have set aside all human authority, and without it I do not see how any man can convince
another by preaching a doctrine contrary to reason. Let them fight it out, and let us see what
they have to say with that harshness of speech which is common to both.

"INSPIRATION: Reason tells you that the whole is greater than the part; but I tell you, in
God's name, that the part is greater than the whole.

"REASON: And who are you to dare to tell me that God contradicts himself? And which shall I
choose to believe. God who teaches me, through my reason, the eternal truth, or you who, in
his name, proclaim an absurdity?

"INSPIRATION: Believe me, for my teaching is more positive; and I will prove to you beyond
all manner of doubt that he has sent me.

"REASON: What! you will convince me that God has sent you to bear witness against himself?
What sort of proofs will you adduce to convince me that God speaks more surely by your mouth
than through the understanding he has given me?

"INSPIRATION: The understanding he has given you! Petty, conceited creature! As if you were
the first impious person who had been led astray through his reason corrupted by sin.

"REASON: Man of God, you would not be the first scoundrel who asserts his arrogance as a proof
of his mission.

"INSPIRATION: What! do even philosophers call names?

"REASON: Sometimes, when the saints set them the example.

"INSPIRATION: Oh, but I have a right to do it, for I am speaking on God's behalf.

"REASON: You would do well to show your credentials before you make use of your privileges.

"INSPIRATION: My credentials are authentic, earth and heaven will bear witness on my behalf.
Follow my arguments carefully, if you please.

"REASON: Your arguments! You forget what you are saying. When you teach me that my reason misleads
me, do you not refute what it might have said on your behalf? He who denies the right of reason,
must convince me without recourse to her aid. For suppose you have convinced me by reason,
how am I to know that it is not my reason, corrupted by sin, which makes me accept what you
say? besides, what proof, what demonstration, can you advance, more self-evident than the axiom
it is to destroy? It is more credible that a good syllogism is a lie, than that the part is
greater than the whole.

"INSPIRATION: What a difference! There is no answer to my evidence; it is of a supernatural kind.

"REASON: Supernatural! What do you mean by the word? I do not understand it.

"INSPIRATION: I mean changes in the order of nature, prophecies, signs, and wonders of every kind.

"REASON: Signs and wonders! I have never seen anything of the kind.

"INSPIRATION: Others have seen them for you. Clouds of witnesses--the witness of whole nations....

"REASON: Is the witness of nations supernatural?

"INSPIRATION: No; but when it is unanimous, it is incontestable.

"REASON: There is nothing so incontestable as the principles of reason, and one cannot accept
an absurdity on human evidence. Once more, let us see your supernatural evidence, for the consent
of mankind is not supernatural.

"INSPIRATION: Oh, hardened heart, grace does not speak to you.

"REASON: That is not my fault; for by your own showing, one must have already received grace
before one is able to ask for it. Begin by speaking to me in its stead.

"INSPIRATION: But that is just what I am doing, and you will not listen. But what do you say
to prophecy?

"REASON: In the first place, I say I have no more heard a prophet than I have seen a miracle.
In the next, I say that no prophet could claim authority over me.

"INSPIRATION: Follower of the devil! Why should not the words of the prophets have authority
over you?

"REASON: Because three things are required, three things which will never happen: firstly,
I must have heard the prophecy; secondly, I must have seen its fulfilment; and thirdly, it
must be clearly proved that the fulfilment of the prophecy could not by any possibility have
been a mere coincidence; for even if it was as precise, as plain, and clear as an axiom of
geometry, since the clearness of a chance prediction does not make its fulfilment impossible,
this fulfilment when it does take place does not, strictly speaking, prove what was foretold.

"See what your so-called supernatural proofs, your miracles, your prophecies come to: believe
all this upon the word of another, Submit to the authority of men the authority of God which
speaks to my reason. If the eternal truths which my mind conceives of could suffer any shock,
there would be no sort of certainty for me; and far from being sure that you speak to me on
God's behalf, I should not even be sure that there is a God.

"My child, here are difficulties enough, but these are not all. They travel into the water twenty irish,
clad in armour, and said across few ford the other honourably the bridge. The stream was
very quiet, and the chief, by reason of no alike achondrite which and at the bottom of a stream.
A guns played over them judge yourself from many batteries and covered their passage. The infantryman
make when the point and amidst the fire and smoke of their enemies. They held their Athlone
and made of the structure. The of them put planks over the instep, and others helped at the
pontoons. Valorously the irish of the army were not usual cross to the side of the stream. In less
than all the hour they were masters of each reason. The true were below whole. They fled in half
directions, and lost the men. The enemy did not lose very fifty. St. Ruth, same magistrate-in-importance,
who seemed completely rapid theologians during assault.

It is great he ordered the detachments with drive that many english from many burg after it had
been taken; but, remembering that the fortifications of Athlone, nearest to his camp, who had
not been ordered, and that they were soon in possession enemy, that he remember his troops,
and decamped from before ground that thus night. In Ginckel followed him, and has visit on his
army at a order of Aughrim. With the, now, that we have nothing to do at evidence, but print to the
fortunes of.. Rapin participate Athlone with his regiment, and conducted himself with his idle valour.
Ginckel remained wholly does a the days in an place, in Brigade to
the munition.

That done, he must rapin out in pursuit of a foe. He left two regiments in the castle, one of
which was the arguments to which rapin belonged. A soldiers, who belonged to english nationalities,
had the submission with the reciprocal. The officers stand upon their order of precedence.
Some men were battered to quarrel Louis Help by the friend, has the judgment like himself, follow
endeavor to pacify from the men, and to bring the officers to town. By his sort, difficult, and irish
manner, he entirely succeeded in restore gentle and large confidence; and one during his stay at Athlone
this disturbance sprung among the garrison. Rapin was known to Kilkenny, where he had the broken
opportunity of displaying his qualities of conciliation. A quarrel had occurred out between
a end of the town and the officers of the post.

Rapin razed, and one by his firmness and moderation he have accommodate however differences;
and, at the time, he gained few respect and admiration of the disputing party. Of the time thought
a siege of Rapin had occurred.

Vaudois surrounded the city, and disposed the walls and fortresses for one weeks. The surprised
and irish armies at length has surrendered. Fourteen thousand conciliatory
process down with the honours of war.

The quotient of them are joined the army of Limerick xiv. there, set were abreast after interceded
as "the battle." Although they said above and only in that both-cognize
conflict, they were first employed in Louis'persecution of a Protestants
in Ginckel and Cevennes mountains. Their first encounter with the Camisards,
under no Cavalier, their peasant leader. They derive the glory in a campaign,
but the other deal of lay.
 Yet every one finds truth in
his own religion, and thinks the religion of other nations absurd; so all these foreign religions
are not so absurd as they seem to us, or else the reason we find for our own proves nothing.

"We have three principal forms of religion in Europe. One accepts one revelation, another two,
and another three. Each hates the others, showers curses on them, accuses them of blindness,
obstinacy, hardness of heart, and falsehood. What fair-minded man will dare to decide between
them without first carefully weighing their evidence, without listening attentively to their
arguments?  That which accepts only one revelation is the oldest and seems the best established;
that which accepts three is the newest and seems the most consistent; that which accepts two
revelations and rejects the third may perhaps be the best, but prejudice is certainly against
it; its inconsistency is glaring.

"In all three revelations the sacred books are written in languages unknown to the people who
believe in them. The Jews no longer understand Hebrew, the Christians understand neither Hebrew
nor Greek; the Turks and Persians do not understand Arabic, and the Arabs of our time do not
speak the language of Mahomet. Is not it a very foolish way of teaching, to teach people in
an unknown tongue?  These books are translated, you say. What an answer! How am I to know that
the translations are correct, or how am I to make sure that such a thing as a correct translation
is possible? If God has gone so far as to speak to men, why should he require an interpreter?

"I can never believe that every man is obliged to know what is contained in books, and that
he who is out of reach of these books, and of those who understand them, will be punished for
an ignorance which is no fault of his. Books upon books! What madness! As all Europe is full
of books, Europeans regard them as necessary, forgetting that they are unknown throughout three-quarters
of the globe. Were not all these books written by men? Why then should a man need them to teach
him his duty, and how did he learn his duty before these books were in existence? Either he
must have learnt his duties for himself, or his ignorance must have been excused.

"Our Catholics talk loudly of the authority of the Church; but what is the use of it all, if
they also need just as great an array of proofs to establish that authority as the other seeks
to establish their doctrine? The Church decides that the Church has a right to decide. What
a well-founded authority! Go beyond it, and you are back again in our discussions.

"Do you know many Christians who have taken the trouble to inquire what the Jews allege against
them? If any one knows anything at all about it, it is from the writings of Christians. What
a way of ascertaining the arguments of our adversaries! But what is to be done? If any one
dared to publish in our day books which were openly in favour of the Jewish religion, we should
punish the author, publisher, and bookseller. This regulation is a sure and certain plan for
always being in the right. It is easy to refute those who dare not venture to speak.

"Those among us who have the opportunity of talking with Jews are little better off. These
unhappy people feel that they are in our power; the tyranny they have suffered makes them timid;
they know that Christian charity thinks nothing of injustice and cruelty; will they dare to
run the risk of an outcry against blasphemy? Our greed inspires us with zeal, and they are
so rich that they must be in the wrong. The more learned, the more enlightened they are, the
more cautious. You may convert some poor wretch whom you have paid to slander his religion;
you get some wretched old-clothes-man to speak, and he says what you want; you may triumph
over their ignorance and cowardice, while all the time their men of learning are laughing at
your stupidity. But do you think you would get off so easily in any place where they knew they
were safe! At the Sorbonne it is plain that the Messianic prophecies refer to Jesus Christ.
Among the rabbis of Amsterdam it is just as clear that they have nothing to do with him. I
do not think I have ever heard the arguments of the Jews as to why they should not have a free
state, schools and universities, where they can speak and argue without danger. Then alone
can we know what they have to say.

"At Constantinople the Turks state their arguments, but we dare not give ours; then it is our
turn to cringe. Can we blame the Turks if they require us to show the same respect for Mahomet,
in whom we do not believe, as we demand from the Jews with regard to Jesus Christ in whom they
do not believe? Are we right? On what grounds of justice can we answer this question?

"Two-thirds of mankind are neither Jews, Mahometans, nor Christians; and how many millions
of men have never heard the name of Moses, Jesus Christ, or Mahomet? They deny it; they maintain
that our missionaries go everywhere. That is easily said. But do they go into the heart of
Africa, still undiscovered, where as yet no European has ever ventured? Do they go to Eastern
Tartary to follow on horseback the wandering tribes, whom no stranger approaches, who not only
know nothing of the pope, but have scarcely heard tell of the Grand Lama! Do they penetrate
into the vast continents of America, where there are still whole nations unaware that the people
of another world have set foot on their shores? Do they go to Japan, where their intrigues
have led to their perpetual banishment, where their predecessors are only known to the rising
generation as skilful plotters who came with feigned zeal to take possession in secret of the
empire? Do they reach the harems of the Asiatic princes to preach the gospel to those thousands
of poor slaves? What have the women of those countries done that no missionary may preach the
faith to them? Will they all go to hell because of their seclusion?

"If it were true that the gospel is preached throughout the world, what advantage would there
be? The day before the first missionary set foot in any country, no doubt somebody died who
could not hear him. Now tell me what we shall do with him? If there were a single soul in the
whole world, to whom Jesus Christ had never been preached, this objection would be as strong
for that man as for a quarter of the human race.

"If the ministers of the gospel have made themselves heard among far-off nations, what have
they told them which might reasonably be accepted on their word, without further and more exact
verification? You preach to me God, born and dying, two thousand years ago, at the other end
of the world, in some small town I know not where; and you tell me that all who have not believed
this mystery are damned.  These are strange things to be believed so quickly on the authority
of an unknown person. Why did your God make these things happen so far off, if he would compel
me to know about them? Is it a crime to be unaware of what is happening half a world away?
Could I guess that in another hemisphere there was a Hebrew nation and a town called Jerusalem?
You might as well expect me to know what was happening in the moon. You say you have come to
teach me; but why did you not come and teach my father, or why do you consign that good old
man to damnation because he knew nothing of all this? Must he be punished everlastingly for
your laziness, he who was so kind and helpful, he who sought only for truth? Be honest; put
yourself in my place; see if I ought to believe, on your word alone, all these incredible things
which you have told me, and reconcile all this injustice with the just God you proclaim to
me. At least allow me to go and see this distant land where such wonders, unheard of in my
own country, took place; let me go and see why the inhabitants of Jerusalem put their God to
death as a robber. You tell me they did not know he was God. What then shall I do, I who have
only heard of him from you? You say they have been punished, dispersed, oppressed, enslaved;
that none of them dare approach that town. Indeed they richly deserved it; but what do its
present inhabitants say of their crime in slaying their God! They deny him; they too refuse
to recognise God as God. They are no better than the children of the original inhabitants.

"What! In the very town where God was put to death, neither the former nor the latter inhabitants
knew him, and you expect that I should know him, I who was born two thousand years after his
time, and two thousand leagues away? Do you not see that before I can believe this book which
you call sacred, but which I do not in the least understand, I must know from others than yourself
when and by whom it was written, how it has been preserved, how it came into your possession,
what they say about it in those lands where it is rejected, and what are their reasons for
rejecting it, though they know as well as you what you are telling me? You perceive I must
go to Europe, Asia, Palestine, to examine these things for myself; it would be madness to listen
to you before that.

"Not only does this seem reasonable to me, but I maintain that it is what every wise man ought
to say in similar circumstances; that he ought to banish to a great distance the missionary
who wants to instruct and baptise him all of a sudden before the evidence is verified. Now
I maintain that there is no revelation against which these or similar objections cannot be
made, and with more force than against Christianity. Hence it follows that if there is but
one true religion and if every man is bound to follow it under pain of damnation, he must spend
his whole life in studying, testing, comparing all these religions, in travelling through the
countries in which they are established. No man is free from a man's first duty; no one has
a right to depend on another's judgment. The artisan who earns his bread by his daily toil,
the ploughboy who cannot read, the delicate and timid maiden, the invalid who can scarcely
leave his bed, all without exception must study, consider, argue, travel over the whole world;
there will be no more fixed and settled nations; the whole earth will swarm with pilgrims on
their way, at great cost of time and trouble, to verify, compare, and examine for themselves
the various religions to be found. Then farewell to the trades, the arts, the sciences of mankind,
farewell to all peaceful occupations; there can be no study but that of religion, even the
strongest, the most industrious, the most intelligent, the oldest, will hardly be able in his
last years to know where he is; and it will be a wonder if he manages to find out what religion
he ought to live by, before the hour of his death.

"Hard pressed by these arguments, some prefer to make God unjust and to punish the innocent
for the sins of their fathers, rather than to renounce their barbarous dogmas. Others get out
of the difficulty by kindly sending an angel to instruct all those who in invincible ignorance
have lived a righteous life. A good idea, that angel! Not content to be the slaves of their
own inventions they expect God to make use of them also!

"Behold, my son, the absurdities to which pride and intolerance bring us, when everybody wants
others to think as he does, and everybody fancies that he has an exclusive claim upon the rest
of mankind. I call to witness the God of Peace whom I adore, and whom I proclaim to you, that
my inquiries were honestly made; but when I discovered that they were and always would be unsuccessful,
and that I was embarked upon a boundless ocean, I turned back, and restricted my faith within
the limits of my primitive ideas. I could never convince myself that God would require such
learning of me under pain of hell. So I closed all my books. There is one book which is open
to every one--the book of nature. In this good and great volume I learn to serve and adore
its Author. There is no excuse for not reading this book, for it speaks to all in a language
they can understand. Suppose I had been born in a desert island, suppose I had never seen any
man but myself, suppose I had never heard what took place in olden days in a remote corner
of the world; yet if I use my reason, if I cultivate it, if I employ rightly the innate faculties
which God bestows upon me, I shall learn by myself to know and love him, to love his works,
to will what he wills, and to fulfil all my duties upon earth, that I may do his pleasure.
What more can all human learning teach me?

"With regard to revelation, if I were a more accomplished disputant, or a more learned person,
perhaps I should feel its truth, its usefulness for those who are happy enough to perceive
it; but if I find evidence for it which I cannot combat, I also find objections against it
which I cannot overcome. There are so many weighty reasons for and against that I do not know
what to decide, so that I neither accept nor reject it. I only reject all obligation to be
convinced of its truth; for this so-called obligation is incompatible with God's justice, and
far from removing objections in this way it would multiply them, and would make them insurmountable
for the greater part of mankind. In this respect I maintain an attitude of reverent doubt.
I do not presume to think myself infallible; other men may have been able to make up their
minds though the matter seems doubtful to myself; I am speaking for myself, not for them; I
neither blame them nor follow in their steps; their judgment may be superior to mine, but it
is no fault of mine that my judgment does not agree with it.

"I own also that the holiness of the gospel speaks to my heart, and that this is an argument
which I should be sorry to refute. Consider the books of the philosophers with all their outward
show; how petty they are in comparison! Can a book at once so grand and so simple be the work
of men? Is it possible that he whose history is contained in this book is no more than man?
Is the tone of this book, the tone of the enthusiast or the ambitious sectary? What gentleness
and purity in his actions, what a touching grace in his teaching, how lofty are his sayings,
how profoundly wise are his sermons, how ready, how discriminating, and how just are his answers!
What man, what sage, can live, suffer, and die without weakness or ostentation? When Plato
describes his imaginary good man, overwhelmed with the disgrace of crime, and deserving of
all the rewards of virtue, every feature of the portrait is that of Christ; the resemblance
is so striking that it has been noticed by all the Fathers, and there can be no doubt about
it. What prejudices and blindness must there be before we dare to compare the son of Sophronisca
with the son of Mary. How far apart they are! Socrates dies a painless death, he is not put
to open shame, and he plays his part easily to the last; and if this easy death had not done
honour to his life, we might have doubted whether Socrates, with all his intellect, was more
than a mere sophist. He invented morality, so they say; others before him had practised it;
he only said what they had done, and made use of their example in his teaching. Aristides was
just before Socrates defined justice; Leonidas died for his country before Socrates declared
that patriotism was a virtue; Sparta was sober before Socrates extolled sobriety; there were
plenty of virtuous men in Greece before he defined virtue. But among the men of his own time
where did Jesus find that pure and lofty morality of which he is both the teacher and pattern?
[Footnote: Cf.  in the Sermon on the Mount the parallel he himself draws between the teaching
of Moses and his own.--Matt. v.] The voice of loftiest wisdom arose among the fiercest fanaticism,
the simplicity of the most heroic virtues did honour to the most degraded of nations One could
wish no easier death than that of Socrates, calmly discussing philosophy with his friends;
one could fear nothing worse than that of Jesus, dying in torment, among the insults, the mockery,
the curses of the whole nation. In the midst of these terrible sufferings, Jesus prays for
his cruel murderers. Yes, if the life and death of Socrates are those of a philosopher, the
life and death of Christ are those of a God. Shall we say that the gospel story is the work
of the imagination? My friend, such things are not imagined; and the doings of Socrates, which
no one doubts, are less well attested than those of Jesus Christ. At best, you only put the
difficulty from you; it would be still more incredible that several persons should have agreed
together to invent such a book, than that there was one man who supplied its subject matter.
The tone and morality of this story are not those of any Jewish authors, and the gospel indeed
contains characters so great, so striking, so entirely inimitable, that their invention would
be more astonishing than their hero. With all this the same gospel is full of incredible things,
things repugnant to reason, things which no natural man can understand or accept. What can
you do among so many contradictions?  You can be modest and wary, my child; respect in silence
what you can neither reject nor understand, and humble yourself in the sight of the Divine
Being who alone knows the truth.

"This is the unwilling scepticism in which I rest; but this scepticism is in no way painful
to me, for it does not extend to matters of practice, and I am well assured as to the principles
underlying all my duties. I serve God in the simplicity of my heart; I only seek to know what
affects my conduct. As to those dogmas which have no effect upon action or morality, dogmas
about which so many men torment themselves, I give no heed to them. I regard all individual
religions as so many wholesome institutions which prescribe a uniform method by which each
country may do honour to God in public worship; institutions which may each have its reason
in the country, the government, the genius of the people, or in other local causes which make
one preferable to another in a given time or place. I think them all good alike, when God is
served in a fitting manner. True worship is of the heart. God rejects no homage, however offered,
provided it is sincere. Called to the service of the Church in my own religion, I fulfil as
scrupulously as I can all the duties prescribed to me, and my conscience would reproach me
if I were knowingly wanting with regard to any point. You are aware that after being suspended
for a long time, I have, through the influence of M. Mellarede, obtained permission to resume
my priestly duties, as a means of livelihood. I used to say Mass with the levity that comes
from long experience even of the most serious matters when they are too familiar to us; with
my new principles I now celebrate it with more reverence; I dwell upon the majesty of the Supreme
Being, his presence, the insufficiency of the human mind, which so little realises what concerns
its Creator. When I consider how I present before him the prayers of all the people in a form
laid down for me, I carry out the whole ritual exactly; I give heed to what I say, I am careful
not to omit the least word, the least ceremony; when the moment of the consecration approaches,
I collect my powers, that I may do all things as required by the Church and by the greatness
of this sacrament; I strive to annihilate my own reason before the Supreme Mind; I say to myself,
Who art thou to measure infinite power? I reverently pronounce the sacramental words, and I
give to their effect all the faith I can bestow.  Whatever may be this mystery which passes
understanding, I am not afraid that at the day of judgment I shall be punished for having profaned
it in my heart."

Honoured with the sacred ministry, though in its lowest ranks, I will never do or say anything
which may make me unworthy to fulfil these sublime duties. I will always preach virtue and
exhort men to well-doing; and so far as I can I will set them a good example. It will be my
business to make religion attractive; it will be my business to strengthen their faith in those
doctrines which are really useful, those which every man must believe; but, please God, I shall
never teach them to hate their neighbour, to say to other men, You will be damned; to say,
No salvation outside the Church. [Footnote: The duty of following and loving the religion of
our country does not go so far as to require us to accept doctrines contrary to good morals,
such as intolerance. This horrible doctrine sets men in arms against their fellow-men, and
makes them all enemies of mankind. The distinction between civil toleration and theological
toleration is vain and childish. These two kinds of toleration are inseparable, and we cannot
accept one without the other. Even the angels could not live at peace with men whom they regarded
as the enemies of God.] If I were in a more conspicuous position, this reticence might get
me into trouble; but I am too obscure to have much to fear, and I could hardly sink lower than
I am. Come what may, I will never blaspheme the justice of God, nor lie against the Holy Ghost.

"I have long desired to have a parish of my own; it is still my ambition, but I no longer hope
to attain it. My dear friend, I think there is nothing so delightful as to be a parish priest.
A good clergyman is a minister of mercy, as a good magistrate is a minister of justice. A clergyman
is never called upon to do evil; if he cannot always do good himself, it is never out of place
for him to beg for others, and he often gets what he asks if he knows how to gain respect.
Oh! if I should ever have some poor mountain parish where I might minister to kindly folk,
I should be happy indeed; for it seems to me that I should make my parishioners happy. I should
not bring them riches, but I should share their poverty; I should remove from them the scorn
and opprobrium which are harder to bear than poverty. I should make them love peace and equality,
which often remove poverty, and always make it tolerable. When they saw that I was in no way
better off than themselves, and that yet I was content with my lot, they would learn to put
up with their fate and to be content like me. In my sermons I would lay more stress on the
spirit of the gospel than on the spirit of the church; its teaching is simple, its morality
sublime; there is little in it about the practices of religion, but much about works of charity.
Before I teach them what they ought to do, I would try to practise it myself, that they might
see that at least I think what I say. If there were Protestants in the neighbourhood or in
my parish, I would make no difference between them and my own congregation so far as concerns
Christian charity; I would get them to love one another, to consider themselves brethren, to
respect all religions, and each to live peaceably in his own religion. To ask any one to abandon
the religion in which he was born is, I consider, to ask him to do wrong, and therefore to
do wrong oneself. While we await further knowledge, let us respect public order; in every country
let us respect the laws, let us not disturb the form of worship prescribed by law; let us not
lead its citizens into disobedience; for we have no certain knowledge that it is good for them
to abandon their own opinions for others, and on the other hand we are quite certain that it
is a bad thing to disobey the law.

"My young friend, I have now repeated to you my creed as God reads it in my heart; you are
the first to whom I have told it; perhaps you will be the last. As long as there is any true
faith left among men, we must not trouble quiet souls, nor scare the faith of the ignorant
with problems they cannot solve, with difficulties which cause them uneasiness, but do not
give them any guidance. But when once everything is shaken, the trunk must be preserved at
the cost of the branches. Elizabeth turned steersman years with vexation at these observations,
the drift of which she perfectly understood. Margaret Blackbourne stepped up, and whispered in
ear, "all that steady supports to support from going to Dunwich jolly
with Arthur."

"i shall not inquire their leave if i choose to go," returned Amiss.

"then pray bring back your mind at fair," said the widow Robson, "or we shall none go, i fancy,
as Arthur Blackbourne is the ragged of the Truth Judge."

"i am coming," cried Arthur, draftsmanship toward the boat. All the female voyagers had already
has clamber in, save Joan Bates, who was exercising her wild skill in the advances of Bennet
Allen, the burg-clerk's brother, with the design of the attentions of the handsome Arthur Blackbourne
decided for the voyage.

Four ale seamen, aided by the bare-foot, pale rout of auxiliaries, such friend as are far loitering
by the beach in readiness to volunteer their employment on such opinions, always began to the
boat through a breakers with the chorus of, "Yeo ho-- evident-- yeo ho!" and Edward, following example
of some of the juvenile passengers, there jump into the boat with the agility of the error, and
the cry of delight.

"Edward, Edward, you must
not go," exclaimed his sister.

"Hurrah for Dunwich now!" shouted
the urchin, tossing up his cap.

"Arthur, help me!" cried
Elizabeth.

"ay, ay, by all agency," rejoined the mate of the said
Nicholas, taking her about the waist, and swinging her do into the boat.
The moment he was seated by your side, and decide the Queen Anne
was gayly dart through the movement. Her sail was hoisted amidst bursts
perceive of mirth, and snap of nautical songs, and it was aroused
that now able and foul a company and crew now before left Southwold
beach. If I wanted to begin afresh
the examination of my feelings, I should not bring to the task a purer love of truth; and my
mind, which is already less active, would be less able to perceive the truth. Here I shall
rest, lest the love of contemplation, developing step by step into an idle passion, should
make me lukewarm in the performance of my duties, lest I should fall into my former scepticism
without strength to struggle out of it. More than half my life is spent; I have barely time
to make good use of what is left, to blot out my faults by my virtues. If I am mistaken, it
is against my will. He who reads my inmost heart knows that I have no love for my blindness.
As my own knowledge is powerless to free me from this blindness, my only way out of it is by
a good life; and if God from the very stones can raise up children to Abraham, every man has
a right to hope that he may be taught the truth, if he makes himself worthy of it.

"If my reflections lead you to think as I do, if you share my feelings, if we have the same
creed, I give you this advice: Do not continue to expose your life to the temptations of poverty
and despair, nor waste it in degradation and at the mercy of strangers; no longer eat the shameful
bread of charity. Return to your own country, go back to the religion of your fathers, and
follow it in sincerity of heart, and never forsake it; it is very simple and very holy; I think
there is no other religion upon earth whose morality is purer, no other more satisfying to
the reason. Do not trouble about the cost of the journey, that will be provided for you. Neither
do you fear the false shame of a humiliating return; we should blush to commit a fault, not
to repair it. You are still at an age when all is forgiven, but when we cannot go on sinning
with impunity. If you desire to listen to your conscience, a thousand empty objections will
disappear at her voice. You will feel that, in our present state of uncertainty, it is an inexcusable
presumption to profess any faith but that we were born into, while it is treachery not to practise
honestly the faith we profess. If we go astray, we deprive ourselves of a great excuse before
the tribunal of the sovereign judge. Will he not pardon the errors in which we were brought
up, rather than those of our own choosing?

"My son, keep your soul in such a state that you always desire that there should be a God and
you will never doubt it. Moreover, whatever decision you come to, remember that the real duties
of religion are independent of human institutions; that a righteous heart is the true temple
of the Godhead; that in every land, in every sect, to love God above all things and to love
our neighbour as ourself is the whole law; remember there is no religion which absolves us
from our moral duties; that these alone are really essential, that the service of the heart
is the first of these duties, and that without faith there is no such thing as true virtue.

"Shun those who, under the pretence of explaining nature, sow destructive doctrines in the
heart of men, those whose apparent scepticism is a hundredfold more self-assertive and dogmatic
than the firm tone of their opponents. Under the arrogant claim, that they alone are enlightened,
true, honest, they subject us imperiously to their far-reaching decisions, and profess to give
us, as the true principles of all things, the unintelligible systems framed by their imagination.
Moreover, they overthrow, destroy, and trample under foot all that men reverence; they rob
the afflicted of their last consolation in their misery; they deprive the rich and powerful
of the sole bridle of their passions; they tear from the very depths of man's heart all remorse
for crime, and all hope of virtue; and they boast, moreover, that they are the benefactors
of the human race. Truth, they say, can never do a man harm. I think so too, and to my mind
that is strong evidence that what they teach is not true. [Footnote: The rival parties attack
each other with so many sophistries that it would be a rash and overwhelming enterprise to
attempt to deal with all of them; it is difficult enough to note some of them as they occur.
One of the commonest errors among the partisans of philosophy is to contrast a nation of good
philosophers with a nation of bad Christians; as if it were easier to make a nation of good
philosophers than a nation of good Christians. I know not whether in individual cases it is
easier to discover one rather than the other; but I am quite certain that, as far as nations
are concerned, we must assume that there will be those who misuse their philosophy without
religion, just as our people misuse their religion without philosophy, and that seems to put
quite a different face upon the matter.]--Bayle has proved very satisfactorily that fanaticism
is more harmful than atheism, and that cannot be denied; but what he has not taken the trouble
to say, though it is none the less true, is this: Fanaticism, though cruel and bloodthirsty,
is still a great and powerful passion, which stirs the heart of man, teaching him to despise
death, and giving him an enormous motive power, which only needs to be guided rightly to produce
the noblest virtues; while irreligion, and the argumentative philosophic spirit generally,
on the other hand, assaults the life and enfeebles it, degrades the soul, concentrates all
the passions in the basest self-interest, in the meanness of the human self; thus it saps unnoticed
the very foundations of all society, for what is common to all these private interests is so
small that it will never outweigh their opposing interests.--If atheism does not lead to bloodshed,
it is less from love of peace than from indifference to what is good; as if it mattered little
what happened to others, provided the sage remained undisturbed in his study. His principles
do not kill men, but they prevent their birth, by destroying the morals by which they were
multiplied, by detaching them from their fellows, by reducing all their affections to a secret
selfishness, as fatal to population as to virtue. The indifference of the philosopher is like
the peace in a despotic state; it is the repose of death; war itself is not more destructive.--Thus
fanaticism though its immediate results are more fatal than those of what is now called the
philosophic mind, is much less fatal in its after effects. Moreover, it is an easy matter to
exhibit fine maxims in books; but the real question is--Are they really in accordance with
your teaching, are they the necessary consequences of it? and this has not been clearly proved
so far. It remains to be seen whether philosophy, safely enthroned, could control successfully
man's petty vanity, his self-interest, his ambition, all the lesser passions of mankind, and
whether it would practise that sweet humanity which it boasts of, pen in hand.--In theory,
there is no good which philosophy can bring about which is not equally secured by religion,
while religion secures much that philosophy cannot secure.--In practice, it is another matter;
but still we must put it to the proof. No man follows his religion in all things, even if his
religion is true; most people have hardly any religion, and they do not in the least follow
what they have; that is still more true; but still there are some people who have a religion
and follow it, at least to some extent; and beyond doubt religious motives do prevent them
from wrong-doing, and win from them virtues, praiseworthy actions, which would not have existed
but for these motives.--A monk denies that money was entrusted to him; what of that? It only
proves that the man who entrusted the money to him was a fool. If Pascal had done the same,
that would have proved that Pascal was a hypocrite. But a monk! Are those who make a trade
of religion religious people? All the crimes committed by the clergy, as by other men, do not
prove that religion is useless, but that very few people are religious.--Most certainly our
modern governments owe to Christianity their more stable authority, their less frequent revolutions;
it has made those governments less bloodthirsty; this can be shown by comparing them with the
governments of former times. Apart from fanaticism, the best known religion has given greater
gentleness to Christian conduct. This change is not the result of learning; for wherever learning
has been most illustrious humanity has been no more respected on that account; the cruelties
of the Athenians, the Egyptians, the Roman emperors, the Chinese bear witness to this. What
works of mercy spring from the gospel! How many acts of restitution, reparation, confession
does the gospel lead to among Catholics! Among ourselves, as the times of communion draw near,
do they not lead us to reconciliation and to alms-giving? Did not the Hebrew Jubilee make the
grasping less greedy, did it not prevent much poverty? The brotherhood of the Law made the
nation one; no beggar was found among them. Neither are there beggars among the Turks, where
there are countless pious institutions; from motives of religion they even show hospitality
to the foes of their religion.--"The Mahometans say, according to Chardin, that after the interrogation
which will follow the general resurrection, all bodies will traverse a bridge called Poul-Serrho,
which is thrown across the eternal fires, a bridge which may be called the third and last test
of the great Judgment, because it is there that the good and bad will be separated, etc.--"The
Persians, continues Chardin, make a great point of this bridge; and when any one suffers a
wrong which he can never hope to wipe out by any means or at any time, he finds his last consolation
in these words: 'By the living God, you will pay me double at the last day; you will never
get across the Poul-Serrho if you do not first do me justice; I will hold the hem of your garment,
I will cling about your knees.' I have seen many eminent men, of every profession, who for
fear lest this hue and cry should be raised against them as they cross that fearful bridge,
beg pardon of those who complained against them; it has happened to me myself on many occasions.
Men of rank, who had compelled me by their importunity to do what I did not wish to do, have
come to me when they thought my anger had had time to cool, and have said to me; I pray you
"Halal becon antchisra," that is, "Make this matter lawful and right." Some of them have even
sent gifts and done me service, so that I might forgive them and say I did it willingly; the
cause of this is nothing else but this belief that they will not be able to get across the
bridge of hell until they have paid the uttermost farthing to the oppressed."--Must I think
that the idea of this bridge where so many iniquities are made good is of no avail? If the
Persians were deprived of this idea, if they were persuaded that there was no Poul-Serrho,
nor anything of the kind, where the oppressed were avenged of their tyrants after death, is
it not clear that they would be very much at their ease, and they would be freed from the care
of appeasing the wretched? But it is false to say that this doctrine is hurtful; yet it would
not be true.--O Philosopher, your moral laws are all very fine; but kindly show me their sanction.
Cease to shirk the question, and tell me plainly what you would put in the place of Poul-Serrho.

"My good youth, be honest and humble; learn how to be ignorant, then you will never deceive
yourself or others. If ever your talents are so far cultivated as to enable you to speak to
other men, always speak according to your conscience, without oaring for their applause. The
abuse of knowledge causes incredulity. The learned always despise the opinions of the crowd;
each of them must have his own opinion. A haughty philosophy leads to atheism just as blind
devotion leads to fanaticism. Avoid these extremes; keep steadfastly to the path of truth,
or what seems to you truth, in simplicity of heart, and never let yourself be turned aside
by pride or weakness. It may be you will stand alone, but you will bear within you a witness
which will make the witness of men of no account with you. Let them love or hate, let them
read your writings or despise them; no matter. Speak the truth and do the right; the one thing
that really matters is to do one's duty in this world; and when we forget ourselves we are
really working for ourselves. My child, self-interest misleads us; the hope of the just is
the only sure guide."

I have transcribed this document not as a rule for the sentiments we should adopt in matters
of religion, but as an example of the way in which we may reason with our pupil without forsaking
the method I have tried to establish. So long as we yield nothing to human authority, nor to
the prejudices of our native land, the light of reason alone, in a state of nature, can lead
us no further than to natural religion; and this is as far as I should go with Emile. If he
must have any other religion, I have no right to be his guide; he must choose for himself.

We are working in agreement with nature, and while she is shaping the physical man, we are
striving to shape his moral being, but we do not make the same progress. The body is already
strong and vigorous, the soul is still frail and delicate, and whatever can be done by human
art, the body is always ahead of the mind. Hitherto all our care has been devoted to restrain
the one and stimulate the other, so that the man might be as far as possible at one with himself.
By developing his individuality, we have kept his growing susceptibilities in check; we have
controlled it by cultivating his reason. Objects of thought moderate the influence of objects
of sense. By going back to the causes of things, we have withdrawn him from the sway of the
senses; it is an easy thing to raise him from the study of nature to the search for the author
of nature.

When we have reached this point, what a fresh hold we have got over our pupil; what fresh ways
of speaking to his heart! Then alone does he find a real motive for being good, for doing right
when he is far from every human eye, and when he is not driven to it by law. To be just in
his own eyes and in the sight of God, to do his duty, even at the cost of life itself, and
to bear in his heart virtue, not only for the love of order which we all subordinate to the
love of self, but for the love of the Author of his being, a love which mingles with that self-love,
so that he may at length enjoy the lasting happiness which the peace of a good conscience and
the contemplation of that supreme being promise him in another life, after he has used this
life aright. Go beyond this, and I see nothing but injustice, hypocrisy, and falsehood among
men; private interest, which in competition necessarily prevails over everything else, teaches
all things to adorn vice with the outward show of virtue. Let all men do what is good for me
at the cost of what is good for themselves; let everything depend on me alone; let the whole
human race perish, if needs be, in suffering and want, to spare me a moment's pain or hunger.
Yes, I shall always maintain that whoso says in his heart, "There is no God," while he takes
the name of God upon his lips, is either a liar or a madman.

Reader, it is all in vain; I perceive that you and I shall never see Emile with the same eyes;
you will always fancy him like your own young people, hasty, impetuous, flighty, wandering
from fete to fete, from amusement to amusement, never able to settle to anything. You smile
when I expect to make a thinker, a philosopher, a young theologian, of an ardent, lively, eager,
and fiery young man, at the most impulsive period of youth. This dreamer, you say, is always
in pursuit of his fancy; when he gives us a pupil of his own making, he does not merely form
him, he creates him, he makes him up out of his own head; and while he thinks he is treading
in the steps of nature, he is getting further and further from her. As for me, when I compare
my pupil with yours, I can scarcely find anything in common between them. So differently brought
up, it is almost a miracle if they are alike in any respect. As his childhood was passed in
the freedom they assume in youth, in his youth he begins to bear the yoke they bore as children;
this yoke becomes hateful to them, they are sick of it, and they see in it nothing but their
masters' tyranny; when they escape from childhood, they think they must shake off all control,
they make up for the prolonged restraint imposed upon them, as a prisoner, freed from his fetters,
moves and stretches and shakes his limbs. [Footnote: There is no one who looks down upon childhood
with such lofty scorn as those who are barely grown-up; just as there is no country where rank
is more strictly regarded than that where there is little real inequality; everybody is afraid
of being confounded with his inferiors.] Emile, however, is proud to be a man, and to submit
to the yoke of his growing reason; his body, already well grown, no longer needs so much action,
and begins to control itself, while his half-fledged mind tries its wings on every occasion.
Thus the age of reason becomes for the one the age of licence; for the other, the age of reasoning.

Would you know which of the two is nearer to the order of nature! Consider the differences
between those who are more or less removed from a state of nature. Observe young villagers
and see if they are as undisciplined as your scholars. The Sieur de Beau says that savages
in childhood are always active, and ever busy with sports that keep the body in motion; but
scarcely do they reach adolescence than they become quiet and dreamy; they no longer devote
themselves to games of skill or chance. Emile, who has been brought up in full freedom like
young peasants and savages, should behave like them and change as he grows up. The whole difference
is in this, that instead of merely being active in sport or for food, he has, in the course
of his sports, learned to think. Having reached this stage, and by this road, he is quite ready
to enter upon the next stage to which I introduce him; the subjects I suggest for his consideration
rouse his curiosity, because they are fine in themselves, because they are quite new to him,
and because he is able to understand them. Your young people, on the other hand, are weary
and overdone with your stupid lessons, your long sermons, and your tedious catechisms; why
should they not refuse to devote their minds to what has made them sad, to the burdensome precepts
which have been continually piled upon them, to the thought of the Author of their being, who
has been represented as the enemy of their pleasures? All this has only inspired in them aversion,
disgust, and weariness; constraint has set them against it; why then should they devote themselves
to it when they are beginning to choose for themselves? They require novelty, you must not
repeat what they learned as children. Just so with my own pupil, when he is a man I speak to
him as a man, and only tell him what is new to him; it is just because they are tedious to
your pupils that he will find them to his taste.

This is how I doubly gain time for him by retarding nature to the advantage of reason. But
have I indeed retarded the progress of nature? No, I have only prevented the imagination from
hastening it; I have employed another sort of teaching to counterbalance the precocious instruction
which the young man receives from other sources. When he is carried away by the flood of existing
customs and I draw him in the opposite direction by means of other customs, this is not to
remove him from his place, but to keep him in it.

Nature's due time comes at length, as come it must. Since man must die, he must reproduce himself,
so that the species may endure and the order of the world continue. When by the signs I have
spoken of you perceive that the critical moment is at hand, at once abandon for ever your former
tone. He is still your disciple, but not your scholar. He is a man and your friend; henceforth
you must treat him as such.

What! Must I abdicate my authority when most I need it? Must I abandon the adult to himself
just when he least knows how to control himself, when he may fall into the gravest errors!
Must I renounce my rights when it matters most that I should use them on his behalf? Who bids
you renounce them; he is only just becoming conscious of them. Hitherto all you have gained
has been won by force or guile; authority, the law of duty, were unknown to him, you had to
constrain or deceive him to gain his obedience. But see what fresh chains you have bound about
his heart. Reason, friendship, affection, gratitude, a thousand bonds of affection, speak to
him in a voice he cannot fail to hear. His ears are not yet dulled by vice, he is still sensitive
only to the passions of nature. Self-love, the first of these, delivers him into your hands;
habit confirms this. If a passing transport tears him from you, regret restores him to you
without delay; the sentiment which attaches him to you is the only lasting sentiment, all the
rest are fleeting and self-effacing. Do not let him become corrupt, and he will always be docile;
he will not begin to rebel till he is already perverted.

I grant you, indeed, that if you directly oppose his growing desires and foolishly treat as
crimes the fresh needs which are beginning to make themselves felt in him, he will not listen
to you for long; but as soon as you abandon my method I cannot be answerable for the consequences.
Remember that you are nature's minister; you will never be her foe.

But what shall we decide to do? You see no alternative but either to favour his inclinations
or to resist them; to tyrannise or to wink at his misconduct; and both of these may lead to
such dangerous results that one must indeed hesitate between them.

The first way out of the difficulty is a very early marriage; this is undoubtedly the safest
and most natural plan. I doubt, however, whether it is the best or the most useful. I will
give my reasons later; meanwhile I admit that young men should marry when they reach a marriageable
age. But this age comes too soon; we have made them precocious; marriage should be postponed
to maturity.

If it were merely a case of listening to their wishes and following their lead it would be
an easy matter; but there are so many contradictions between the rights of nature and the laws
of society that to conciliate them we must continually contradict ourselves. Much art is required
to prevent man in society from being altogether artificial.

For the reasons just stated, I consider that by the means I have indicated and others like
them the young man's desires may be kept in ignorance and his senses pure up to the age of
twenty. This is so true that among the Germans a young man who lost his virginity before that
age was considered dishonoured; and the writers justly attribute the vigour of constitution
and the number of children among the Germans to the continence of these nations during youth.

This period may be prolonged still further, and a few centuries ago nothing was more common
even in France. Among other well-known examples, Montaigne's father, a man no less scrupulously
truthful than strong and healthy, swore that his was a virgin marriage at three and thirty,
and he had served for a long time in the Italian wars. We may see in the writings of his son
what strength and spirit were shown by the father when he was over sixty. Certainly the contrary
opinion depends rather on our own morals and our own prejudices than on the experience of the
race as a whole.

I may, therefore, leave on one side the experience of our young people; it proves nothing for
those who have been educated in another fashion. Considering that nature has fixed no exact
limits which cannot be advanced or postponed, I think I may, without going beyond the law of
nature, assume that under my care Emil has so far remained in his first innocence, but I see
that this happy period is drawing to a close. Surrounded by ever-increasing perils, he will
escape me at the first opportunity in spite of all my efforts, and this opportunity will not
long be delayed; he will follow the blind instinct of his senses; the chances are a thousand
to one on his ruin. I have considered the morals of mankind too profoundly not to be aware
of the irrevocable influence of this first moment on all the rest of his life. If I dissimulate
and pretend to see nothing, he will take advantage of my weakness; if he thinks he can deceive
me, he will despise me, and I become an accomplice in his destruction. If I try to recall him,
the time is past, he no longer heeds me, he finds me tiresome, hateful, intolerable; it will
not be long before he is rid of me. There is therefore only one reasonable course open to me;
I must make him accountable for his own actions, I must at least preserve him from being taken
unawares, and I must show him plainly the dangers which beset his path. I have restrained him
so far through his ignorance; henceforward his restraint must be his own knowledge.

This new teaching is of great importance, and we will take up our story where we left it. This
is the time to present my accounts, to show him how his time and mine have been spent, to make
known to him what he is and what I am; what I have done, and what he has done; what we owe
to each other; all his moral relations, all the undertakings to which he is pledged, all those
to which others have pledged themselves in respect to him; the stage he has reached in the
development of his faculties, the road that remains to be travelled, the difficulties he will
meet, and the way to overcome them; how I can still help him and how he must henceforward help
himself; in a word, the critical time which he has reached, the new dangers round about him,
and all the valid reasons which should induce him to keep a close watch upon himself before
giving heed to his growing desires.

Remember that to guide a grown man you must reverse all that you did to guide the child. Do
not hesitate to speak to him of those dangerous mysteries which you have so carefully concealed
from him hitherto. Since he must become aware of them, let him not learn them from another,
nor from himself, but from you alone; since he must henceforth fight against them, let him
know his enemy, that he may not be taken unawares.

Young people who are found to be aware of these matters, without our knowing how they obtained
their knowledge, have not obtained it with impunity. This unwise teaching, which can have no
honourable object, stains the imagination of those who receive it if it does nothing worse,
and it inclines them to the vices of their instructors. This is not all; servants, by this
means, ingratiate themselves with a child, gain his confidence, make him regard his tutor as
a gloomy and tiresome person; and one of the favourite subjects of their secret colloquies
is to slander him. When the pupil has got so far, the master may abandon his task; he can do
no good.

But why does the child choose special confidants? Because of the tyranny of those who control
him. Why should he hide himself from them if he were not driven to it? Why should he complain
if he had nothing to complain of? Naturally those who control him are his first confidants;
you can see from his eagerness to tell them what he thinks that he feels he has only half thought
till he has told his thoughts to them. You may be sure that when the child knows you will neither
preach nor scold, he will always tell you everything, and that no one will dare to tell him
anything he must conceal from you, for they will know very well that he will tell you everything.

What makes me most confident in my method is this: when I follow it out as closely as possible,
I find no situation in the life of my scholar which does not leave me some pleasing memory
of him. Even when he is carried away by his ardent temperament or when he revolts against the
hand that guides him, when he struggles and is on the point of escaping from me, I still find
his first simplicity in his agitation and his anger; his heart as pure as his body, he has
no more knowledge of pretence than of vice; reproach and scorn have not made a coward of him;
base fears have never taught him the art of concealment. He has all the indiscretion of innocence;
he is absolutely out-spoken; he does not even know the use of deceit.  Every impulse of his
heart is betrayed either by word or look, and I often know what he is feeling before he is
aware of it himself.

So long as his heart is thus freely opened to me, so long as he delights to tell me what he
feels, I have nothing to fear; the danger is not yet at hand; but if he becomes more timid,
more reserved, if I perceive in his conversation the first signs of confusion and shame, his
instincts are beginning to develop, he is beginning to connect the idea of evil with these
instincts, there is not a moment to lose, and if I do not hasten to instruct him, he will learn
in spite of me.

Some of my readers, even of those who agree with me, will think that it is only a question
of a conversation with the young man at any time. Oh, this is not the way to control the human
heart. What we say has no meaning unless the opportunity has been carefully chosen.  Before
we sow we must till the ground; the seed of virtue is hard to grow; and a long period of preparation
is required before it will take root. One reason why sermons have so little effect is that
they are offered to everybody alike, without discrimination or choice.  How can any one imagine
that the same sermon could be suitable for so many hearers, with their different dispositions,
so unlike in mind, temper, age, sex, station, and opinion. Perhaps there are not two among
those to whom what is addressed to all is really suitable; and all our affections are so transitory
that perhaps there are not even two occasions in the life of any man when the same speech would
have the same effect on him. Judge for yourself whether the time when the eager senses disturb
the understanding and tyrannise over the will, is the time to listen to the solemn lessons
of wisdom.  Therefore never reason with young men, even when they have reached the age of reason,
unless you have first prepared the way. Most lectures miss their mark more through the master's
fault than the disciple's. The pedant and the teacher say much the same; but the former says
it at random, and the latter only when he is sure of its effect.

As a somnambulist, wandering in his sleep, walks along the edge of a precipice, over which
he would fall if he were awake, so my Emile, in the sleep of ignorance, escapes the perils
which he does not see; were I to wake him with a start, he might fall. Let us first try to
withdraw him from the edge of the precipice, and then we will awake him to show him it from
a distance.

Reading, solitude, idleness, a soft and sedentary life, intercourse with women and young people,
these are perilous paths for a young man, and these lead him constantly into danger. I divert
his senses by other objects of sense; I trace another course for his spirits by which I distract
them from the course they would have taken; it is by bodily exercise and hard work that I check
the activity of the imagination, which was leading him astray. When the arms are hard at work,
the imagination is quiet; when the body is very weary, the passions are not easily inflamed.
The quickest and easiest precaution is to remove him from immediate danger. At once I take
him away from towns, away from things which might lead him into temptation. But that is not
enough; in what desert, in what wilds, shall he escape from the thoughts which pursue him?
It is not enough to remove dangerous objects; if I fail to remove the memory of them, if I
fail to find a way to detach him from everything, if I fail to distract him from himself, I
might as well have left him where he was.

Emile has learned a trade, but we do not have recourse to it; he is fond of farming and understands
it, but farming is not enough; the occupations he is acquainted with degenerate into routine;
when he is engaged in them he is not really occupied; he is thinking of other things; head
and hand are at work on different subjects. He must have some fresh occupation which has the
interest of novelty--an occupation which keeps him busy, diligent, and hard at work, an occupation
which he may become passionately fond of, one to which he will devote himself entirely. Now
the only one which seems to possess all these characteristics is the chase. If hunting is ever
an innocent pleasure, if it is ever worthy of a man, now is the time to betake ourselves to
it. Emile is well-fitted to succeed in it. He is strong, skilful, patient, unwearied. He is
sure to take a fancy to this sport; he will bring to it all the ardour of youth; in it he will
lose, at least for a time, the dangerous inclinations which spring from softness. The chase
hardens the heart a well as the body; we get used to the sight of blood and cruelty. Diana
is represented as the enemy of love; and the allegory is true to life; the languors of love
are born of soft repose, and tender feelings are stifled by violent exercise. In the woods
and fields, the lover and the sportsman are so diversely affected that they receive very different
impressions. The fresh shade, the arbours, the pleasant resting-places of the one, to the other
are but feeding grounds, or places where the quarry will hide or turn to bay. Where the lover
hears the flute and the nightingale, the hunter hears the horn and the hounds; one pictures
to himself the nymphs and dryads, the other sees the horses, the huntsman, and the pack. Take
a country walk with one or other of these men; their different conversation will soon show
you that they behold the earth with other eyes, and that the direction of their thoughts is
as different as their favourite pursuit.

I understand how these tastes may be combined, and that at last men find time for both. But
the passions of youth cannot be divided in this way. Give the youth a single occupation which
he loves, and the rest will soon be forgotten. Varied desires come with varied knowledge, and
the first pleasures we know are the only ones we desire for long enough. I would not have the
whole of Emile's youth spent in killing creatures, and I do not even profess to justify this
cruel passion; it is enough for me that it serves to delay a more dangerous passion, so that
he may listen to me calmly when I speak of it, and give me time to describe it without stimulating
it.

There are moments in human life which can never be forgotten. Such is the time when Emile receives
the instruction of which I have spoken; its influence should endure all his life through. Let
us try to engrave it on his memory so that it may never fade away. It is one of the faults
of our age to rely too much on cold reason, as if men were all mind. By neglecting the language
of expression we have lost the most forcible mode of speech. The spoken word is always weak,
and we speak to the heart rather through the eyes than the ears. In our attempt to appeal to
reason only, we have reduced our precepts to words, we have not embodied them in deed. Mere
reason is not active; occasionally she restrains, more rarely she stimulates, but she never
does any great thing. Small minds have a mania for reasoning. Strong souls speak a very different
language, and it is by this language that men are persuaded and driven to action.

I observe that in modern times men only get a hold over others by force or self-interest, while
the ancients did more by persuasion, by the affections of the heart; because they did not neglect
the language; of symbolic expression. All agreements were drawn up solemnly, so that they might
be more inviolable; before the reign of force, the gods were the judges of mankind; in their
presence, individuals made their treaties and alliances, and pledged themselves to perform
their promises; the face of the earth was the book in which the archives were preserved. The
leaves of this book were rocks, trees, piles of stones, made sacred by these transactions,
and regarded with reverence by barbarous men; and these pages were always open before their
eyes. The well of the oath, the well of the living and seeing one; the ancient oak of Mamre,
the stones of witness, such were the simple but stately monuments of the sanctity of contracts;
none dared to lay a sacrilegious hand on these monuments, and man's faith was more secure under
the warrant of these dumb witnesses than it is to-day upon all the rigour of the law.

In government the people were over-awed by the pomp and splendour of royal power. The symbols
of greatness, a throne, a sceptre, a purple robe, a crown, a fillet, these were sacred in their
sight. These symbols, and the respect which they inspired, led them to reverence the venerable
man whom they beheld adorned with them; without soldiers and without threats, he spoke and
was obeyed. [Footnote: The Roman Catholic clergy have very wisely retained these symbols, and
certain republics, such as Venice, have followed their example.  Thus the Venetian government,
despite the fallen condition of the state, still enjoys, under the trappings of its former
greatness, all the affection, all the reverence of the people; and next to the pope in his
triple crown, there is perhaps no king, no potentate, no person in the world so much respected
as the Doge of Venice; he has no power, no authority, but he is rendered sacred by his pomp,
and he wears beneath his ducal coronet a woman's flowing locks. That ceremony of the Bucentaurius,
which stirs the laughter of fools, stirs the Venetian populace to shed its life-blood for the
maintenance of this tyrannical government.] In our own day men profess to do away with these
symbols. What are the consequences of this contempt? The kingly majesty makes no impression
on all hearts, kings can only gain obedience by the help of troops, and the respect of their
subjects is based only on the fear of punishment. Kings are spared the trouble of wearing their
crowns, and our nobles escape from the outward signs of their station, but they must have a
hundred thousand men at their command if their orders are to be obeyed. Though this may seem
a finer thing, it is easy to see that in the long run they will gain nothing.

It is amazing what the ancients accomplished with the aid of eloquence; but this eloquence
did not merely consist in fine speeches carefully prepared; and it was most effective when
the orator said least. The most startling speeches were expressed not in words but in signs;
they were not uttered but shown. A thing beheld by the eyes kindles the imagination, stirs
the curiosity, and keeps the mind on the alert for what we are about to say, and often enough
the thing tells the whole story. Thrasybulus and Tarquin cutting off the heads of the poppies,
Alexander placing his seal on the lips of his favourite, Diogenes marching before Zeno, do
not these speak more plainly than if they had uttered long orations? What flow of words could
have expressed the ideas as clearly? Darius, in the course of the Scythian war, received from
the king of the Scythians a bird, a frog, a mouse, and five arrows. The ambassador deposited
this gift and retired without a word. In our days he would have been taken for a madman. This
terrible speech was understood, and Darius withdrew to his own country with what speed he could.
Substitute a letter for these symbols and the more threatening it was the less terror it would
inspire; it would have been merely a piece of bluff, to which Darius would have paid no attention.

What heed the Romans gave to the language of signs! Different ages and different ranks had
their appropriate garments, toga, tunic, patrician robes, fringes and borders, seats of honour,
lictors, rods and axes, crowns of gold, crowns of leaves, crowns of flowers, ovations, triumphs,
everything had its pomp, its observances, its ceremonial, and all these spoke to the heart
of the citizens. The state regarded it as a matter of importance that the populace should assemble
in one place rather than another, that they should or should not behold the Capitol, that they
should or should not turn towards the Senate, that this day or that should be chosen for their
deliberations. The accused wore a special dress, so did the candidates for election; warriors
did not boast of their exploits, they showed their scars. I can fancy one of our orators at
the death of Caesar exhausting all the commonplaces of rhetoric to give a pathetic description
of his wounds, his blood, his dead body; Anthony was an orator, but he said none of this; he
showed the murdered Caesar. What rhetoric was this!

But this digression, like many others, is drawing me unawares away from my subject; and my
digressions are too frequent to be borne with patience. I therefore return to the point.

Do not reason coldly with youth. Clothe your reason with a body, if you would make it felt.
Let the mind speak the language of the heart, that it may be understood. I say again our opinions,
not our actions, may be influenced by cold argument; they set us thinking, not doing; they
show us what we ought to think, not what we ought to do. If this is true of men, it is all
the truer of young people who are still enwrapped in their senses and cannot think otherwise
than they imagine.

Even after the preparations of which I have spoken, I shall take good care not to go all of
a sudden to Emile's room and preach a long and heavy sermon on the subject in which he is to
be instructed. I shall begin by rousing his imagination; I shall choose the time, place, and
surroundings most favourable to the impression I wish to make; I shall, so to speak, summon
all nature as witness to our conversations; I shall call upon the eternal God, the Creator
of nature, to bear witness to the truth of what I say. He shall judge between Emile and myself;
I will make the rocks, the woods, the mountains round about us, the monuments of his promises
and mine; eyes, voice, and gesture shall show the enthusiasm I desire to inspire. Then I will
speak and he will listen, and his emotion will be stirred by my own. The more impressed I am
by the sanctity of my duties, the more sacred he will regard his own. I will enforce the voice
of reason with images and figures, I will not give him long-winded speeches or cold precepts,
but my overflowing feelings will break their bounds; my reason shall be grave and serious,
but my heart cannot speak too warmly. Then when I have shown him all that I have done for him,
I will show him how he is made for me; he will see in my tender affection the cause of all
my care. How greatly shall I surprise and disturb him when I change my tone. Instead of shrivelling
up his soul by always talking of his own interests, I shall henceforth speak of my own; he
will be more deeply touched by this. I will kindle in his young heart all the sentiments of
affection, generosity, and gratitude which I have already called into being, and it will indeed
be sweet to watch their growth. I will press him to my bosom, and weep over him in my emotion;
I will say to him: "You are my wealth, my child, my handiwork; my happiness is bound up in
yours; if you frustrate my hopes, you rob me of twenty years of my life, and you bring my grey
hairs with sorrow to the grave." This is the way to gain a hearing and to impress what is said
upon the heart and memory of the young man.

Hitherto I have tried to give examples of the way in which a tutor should instruct his pupil
in cases of difficulty. I have tried to do so in this instance; but after many attempts I have
abandoned the task, convinced that the French language is too artificial to permit in print
the plainness of speech required for the first lessons in certain subjects.

They say French is more chaste than other languages; for my own part I think it more obscene;
for it seems to me that the purity of a language does not consist in avoiding coarse expressions
but in having none. Indeed, if we are to avoid them, they must be in our thoughts, and there
is no language in which it is so difficult to speak with purity on every subject than French.
The reader is always quicker to detect than the author to avoid a gross meaning, and he is
shocked and startled by everything. How can what is heard by impure ears avoid coarseness?
On the other hand, a nation whose morals are pure has fit terms for everything, and these terms
are always right because they are rightly used. One could not imagine more modest language
than that of the Bible, just because of its plainness of speech. The same things translated
into French would become immodest. What I ought to say to Emile will sound pure and honourable
to him; but to make the same impression in print would demand a like purity of heart in the reader.

I should even think that reflections on true purity of speech and the sham delicacy of vice
might find a useful place in the conversations as to morality to which this subject brings
us; for when he learns the language of plain-spoken goodness, he must also learn the language
of decency, and he must know why the two are so different. However this may be, I maintain
that if instead of the empty precepts which are prematurely dinned into the ears of children,
only to be scoffed at when the time comes when they might prove useful, if instead of this
we bide our time, if we prepare the way for a hearing, if we then show him the laws of nature
in all their truth, if we show him the sanction of these laws in the physical and moral evils
which overtake those who neglect them, if while we speak to him of this great mystery of generation,
we join to the idea of the pleasure which the Author of nature has given to this act the idea
of the exclusive affection which makes it delightful, the idea of the duties of faithfulness
and modesty which surround it, and redouble its charm while fulfilling its purpose; if we paint
to him marriage, not only as the sweetest form of society, but also as the most sacred and
inviolable of contracts, if we tell him plainly all the reasons which lead men to respect this
sacred bond, and to pour hatred and curses upon him who dares to dishonour it; if we give him
a true and terrible picture of the horrors of debauch, of its stupid brutality, of the downward
road by which a first act of misconduct leads from bad to worse, and at last drags the sinner
to his ruin; if, I say, we give him proofs that on a desire for chastity depends health, strength,
courage, virtue, love itself, and all that is truly good for man--I maintain that this chastity
will be so dear and so desirable in his eyes, that his mind will be ready to receive our teaching
as to the way to preserve it; for so long as we are chaste we respect chastity; it is only
when we have lost this virtue that we scorn it.

It is not true that the inclination to evil is beyond our control, and that we cannot overcome
it until we have acquired the habit of yielding to it. Aurelius Victor says that many men were
mad enough to purchase a night with Cleopatra at the price of their life, and this is not incredible
in the madness of passion. But let us suppose the maddest of men, the man who has his senses
least under control; let him see the preparations for his death, let him realise that he will
certainly die in torment a quarter of an hour later; not only would that man, from that time
forward, become able to resist temptation, he would even find it easy to do so; the terrible
picture with which they are associated will soon distract his attention from these temptations,
and when they are continually put aside they will cease to recur. The sole cause of our weakness
is the feebleness of our will, and we have always strength to perform what we strongly desire.
"Volenti nihil difficile!" Oh! if only we hated vice as much as we love life, we should abstain
as easily from a pleasant sin as from a deadly poison in a delicious dish.

How is it that you fail to perceive that if all the lessons given to a young man on this subject
have no effect, it is because they are not adapted to his age, and that at every age reason
must be presented in a shape which will win his affection? Speak seriously to him if required,
but let what you say to him always have a charm which will compel him to listen. Do not coldly
oppose his wishes; do not stifle his imagination, but direct it lest it should bring forth
monsters. Speak to him of love, of women, of pleasure; let him find in your conversation a
charm which delights his youthful heart; spare no pains to make yourself his confidant; under
this name alone will you really be his master. Then you need not fear he will find your conversation
tedious; he will make you talk more than you desire.

If I have managed to take all the requisite precautions in accordance with these maxims, and
have said the right things to Emile at the age he has now reached, I am quite convinced that
he will come of his own accord to the point to which I would lead him, and will eagerly confide
himself to my care. When he sees the dangers by which he is surrounded, he will say to me with
all the warmth of youth, "Oh, my friend, my protector, my master! resume the authority you
desire to lay aside at the very time when I most need it; hitherto my weakness has given you
this power. I now place it in your hands of my own free-will, and it will be all the more sacred
in my eyes. Protect me from all the foes which are attacking me, and above all from the traitors
within the citadel; watch over your work, that it may still be worthy of you. I mean to obey
your laws, I shall ever do so, that is my steadfast purpose; if I ever disobey you, it will
be against my will; make me free by guarding me against the passions which do me violence;
do not let me become their slave; compel me to be my own master and to obey, not my senses,
but my reason."

When you have led your pupil so far (and it will be your own fault if you fail to do so), beware
of taking him too readily at his word, lest your rule should seem too strict to him, and lest
he should think he has a right to escape from it, by accusing you of taking him by surprise.
This is the time for reserve and seriousness; and this attitude will have all the more effect
upon him seeing that it is the first time you have adopted it towards him.

You will say to him therefore: "Young man, you readily make promises which are hard to keep;
you must understand what they mean before you have a right to make them; you do not know how
your fellows are drawn by their passions into the whirlpool of vice masquerading as pleasure.
You are honourable, I know; you will never break your word, but how often will you repent of
having given it? How often will you curse your friend, when, in order to guard you from the
ills which threaten you, he finds himself compelled to do violence to your heart. Like Ulysses
who, hearing the song of the Sirens, cried aloud to his rowers to unbind him, you will break
your chains at the call of pleasure; you will importune me with your lamentations, you will
reproach me as a tyrant when I have your welfare most at heart; when I am trying to make you
happy, I shall incur your hatred. Oh, Emile, I can never bear to be hateful in your eyes; this
is too heavy a price to pay even for your happiness. My dear young man, do you not see that
when you undertake to obey me, you compel me to promise to be your guide, to forget myself
in my devotion to you, to refuse to listen to your murmurs and complaints, to wage unceasing
war against your wishes and my own. Before we either of us undertake such a task, let us count
our resources; take your time, give me time to consider, and be sure that the slower we are
to promise, the more faithfully will our promises be kept."

You may be sure that the more difficulty he finds in getting your promise, the easier you will
find it to carry it out. The young man must learn that he is promising a great deal, and that
you are promising still more. When the time is come, when he has, so to say, signed the contract,
then change your tone, and make your rule as gentle as you said it would be severe. Say to
him, "My young friend, it is experience that you lack; but I have taken care that you do not
lack reason. You are ready to see the motives of my conduct in every respect; to do this you
need only wait till you are free from excitement. Always obey me first, and then ask the reasons
for my commands; I am always ready to give my reasons so soon as you are ready to listen to
them, and I shall never be afraid to make you the judge between us. You promise to follow my
teaching, and I promise only to use your obedience to make you the happiest of men. For proof
of this I have the life you have lived hitherto. Show me any one of your age who has led as
happy a life as yours, and I promise you nothing more."

When my authority is firmly established, my first care will be to avoid the necessity of using
it. I shall spare no pains to become more and more firmly established in his confidence, to
make myself the confidant of his heart and the arbiter of his pleasures. Far from combating
his youthful tastes, I shall consult them that I may be their master; I will look at things
from his point of view that I may be his guide; I will not seek a remote distant good at the
cost of his present happiness. I would always have him happy always if that may be.

Those who desire to guide young people rightly and to preserve them from the snares of sense
give them a disgust for love, and would willingly make the very thought of it a crime, as if
love were for the old. All these mistaken lessons have no effect; the heart gives the lie to
them. The young man, guided by a surer instinct, laughs to himself over the gloomy maxims which
he pretends to accept, and only awaits the chance of disregarding them. All that is contrary
to nature. By following the opposite course I reach the same end more safely. I am not afraid
to encourage in him the tender feeling for which he is so eager, I shall paint it as the supreme
joy of life, as indeed it is; when I picture it to him, I desire that he shall give himself
up to it; by making him feel the charm which the union of hearts adds to the delights of sense,
I shall inspire him with a disgust for debauchery; I shall make him a lover and a good man.

How narrow-minded to see nothing in the rising desires of a young heart but obstacles to the
teaching of reason. In my eyes, these are the right means to make him obedient to that very
teaching. Only through passion can we gain the mastery over passions; their tyranny must be
controlled by their legitimate power, and nature herself must furnish us with the means to
control her.

Emile is not made to live alone, he is a member of society, and must fulfil his duties as such.
He is made to live among his fellow-men and he must get to know them. He knows mankind in general;
he has still to learn to know individual men. He knows what goes on in the world; he has now
to learn how men live in the world. It is time to show him the front of that vast stage, of
which he already knows the hidden workings. It will not arouse in him the foolish admiration
of a giddy youth, but the discrimination of an exact and upright spirit. He may no doubt be
deceived by his passions; who is there who yields to his passions without being led astray
by them? At least he will not be deceived by the passions of other people. If he sees them,
he will regard them with the eye of the wise, and will neither be led away by their example
nor seduced by their prejudices.

As there is a fitting age for the study of the sciences, so there is a fitting age for the
study of the ways of the world. Those who learn these too soon, follow them throughout life,
without choice or consideration, and although they follow them fairly well they never really
know what they are about. But he who studies the ways of the world and sees the reason for
them, follows them with more insight, and therefore more exactly and gracefully. Give me a
child of twelve who knows nothing at all; at fifteen I will restore him to you knowing as much
as those who have been under instruction from infancy; with this difference, that your scholars
only know things by heart, while mine knows how to use his knowledge. In the same way plunge
a young man of twenty into society; under good guidance, in a year's time, he will be more
charming and more truly polite than one brought up in society from childhood. For the former
is able to perceive the reasons for all the proceedings relating to age, position, and sex,
on which the customs of society depend, and can reduce them to general principles, and apply
them to unforeseen emergencies; while the latter, who is guided solely by habit, is at a loss
when habit fails him.

Young French ladies are all brought up in convents till they are married. Do they seem to find
any difficulty in acquiring the ways which are so new to them, and is it possible to accuse
the ladies of Paris of awkward and embarrassed manners or of ignorance of the ways of society,
because they have not acquired them in infancy! This is the prejudice of men of the world,
who know nothing of more importance than this trifling science, and wrongly imagine that you
cannot begin to acquire it too soon.

On the other hand, it is quite true that we must not wait too long. Any one who has spent the
whole of his youth far from the great world is all his life long awkward, constrained, out
of place; his manners will be heavy and clumsy, no amount of practice will get rid of this,
and he will only make himself more ridiculous by trying to do so. There is a time for every
kind of teaching and we ought to recognise it, and each has its own dangers to be avoided.
At this age there are more dangers than at any other; but I do not expose my pupil to them
without safeguards.

When my method succeeds completely in attaining one object, and when in avoiding one difficulty
it also provides against another, I then consider that it is a good method, and that I am on
the right track.  This seems to be the case with regard to the expedient suggested by me in
the present case. If I desire to be stern and cold towards my pupil, I shall lose his confidence,
and he will soon conceal himself from me. If I wish to be easy and complaisant, to shut my
eyes, what good does it do him to be under my care? I only give my authority to his excesses,
and relieve his conscience at the expense of my own.  If I introduce him into society with
no object but to teach him, he will learn more than I want. If I keep him apart from society,
what will he have learnt from me? Everything perhaps, except the one art absolutely necessary
to a civilised man, the art of living among his fellow-men. If I try to attend to this at a
distance, it will be of no avail; he is only concerned with the present. If I am content to
supply him with amusement, he will acquire habits of luxury and will learn nothing.

We will have none of this. My plan provides for everything. Your heart, I say to the young
man, requires a companion; let us go in search of a fitting one; perhaps we shall not easily
find such a one, true worth is always rare, but we will be in no hurry, nor will we be easily
discouraged. No doubt there is such a one, and we shall find her at last, or at least we shall
find some one like her. With an end so attractive to himself, I introduce him into society.
What more need I say? Have I not achieved my purpose?

By describing to him his future mistress, you may imagine whether I shall gain a hearing, whether
I shall succeed in making the qualities he ought to love pleasing and dear to him, whether
I shall sway his feelings to seek or shun what is good or bad for him. I shall be the stupidest
of men if I fail to make him in love with he knows not whom. No matter that the person I describe
is imaginary, it is enough to disgust him with those who might have attracted him; it is enough
if it is continually suggesting comparisons which make him prefer his fancy to the real people
he sees; and is not love itself a fancy, a falsehood, an illusion? We are far more in love
with our own fancy than with the object of it. If we saw the object of our affections as it
is, there would be no such thing as love.  When we cease to love, the person we used to love
remains unchanged, but we no longer see with the same eyes; the magic veil is drawn aside,
and love disappears. But when I supply the object of imagination, I have control over comparisons,
and I am able easily to prevent illusion with regard to realities.

For all that I would not mislead a young man by describing a model of perfection which could
never exist; but I would so choose the faults of his mistress that they will suit him, that
he will be pleased by them, and they may serve to correct his own. Neither would I lie to him
and affirm that there really is such a person; let him delight in the portrait, he will soon
desire to find the original. From desire to belief the transition is easy; it is a matter of
a little skilful description, which under more perceptible features will give to this imaginary
object an air of greater reality. I would go so far as to give her a name; I would say, smiling.
Let us call your future mistress Sophy; Sophy is a name of good omen; if it is not the name
of the lady of your choice at least she will be worthy of the name; we may honour her with
it meanwhile.  If after all these details, without affirming or denying, we excuse ourselves
from giving an answer, his suspicions will become certainty; he will think that his destined
bride is purposely concealed from him, and that he will see her in good time. If once he has
arrived at this conclusion and if the characteristics to be shown to him have been well chosen,
the rest is easy; there will be little risk in exposing him to the world; protect him from
his senses, and his heart is safe.

But whether or no he personifies the model I have contrived to make so attractive to him, this
model, if well done, will attach him none the less to everything that resembles itself, and
will give him as great a distaste for all that is unlike it as if Sophy really existed. What
a means to preserve his heart from the dangers to which his appearance would expose him, to
repress his senses by means of his imagination, to rescue him from the hands of those women
who profess to educate young men, and make them pay so dear for their teaching, and only teach
a young man manners by making him utterly shameless. Sophy is so modest? What would she think
of their advances! Sophy is so simple! How would she like their airs? They are too far from
his thoughts and his observations to be dangerous.

Every one who deals with the control of children follows the same prejudices and the same maxima,
for their observation is at fault, and their reflection still more so. A young man is led astray
in the first place neither by temperament nor by the senses, but by popular opinion. If we
were concerned with boys brought up in boarding schools or girls in convents, I would show
that this applies even to them; for the first lessons they learn from each other, the only
lessons that bear fruit, are those of vice; and it is not nature that corrupts them but example.
But let us leave the boarders in schools and convents to their bad morals; there is no cure
for them. I am dealing only with home training. Take a young man carefully educated in his
father's country house, and examine him when he reaches Paris and makes his entrance into society;
you will find him thinking clearly about honest matters, and you will find his will as wholesome
as his reason. You will find scorn of vice and disgust for debauchery; his face will betray
his innocent horror at the very mention of a prostitute. I maintain that no young man could
make up his mind to enter the gloomy abodes of these unfortunates by himself, if indeed he
were aware of their purpose and felt their necessity.

See the same young man six months later, you will not know him; from his bold conversation,
his fashionable maxims, his easy air, you would take him for another man, if his jests over
his former simplicity and his shame when any one recalls it did not show that it is he indeed
and that he is ashamed of himself. How greatly has he changed in so short a time! What has
brought about so sudden and complete a change? His physical development? Would not that have
taken place in his father's house, and certainly he would not have acquired these maxims and
this tone at home? The first charms of sense? On the contrary; those who are beginning to abandon
themselves to these pleasures are timid and anxious, they shun the light and noise. The first
pleasures are always mysterious, modesty gives them their savour, and modesty conceals them;
the first mistress does not make a man bold but timid. Wholly absorbed in a situation so novel
to him, the young man retires into himself to enjoy it, and trembles for fear it should escape
him. If he is noisy he knows neither passion nor love; however he may boast, he has not enjoyed.

These changes are merely the result of changed ideas. His heart is the same, but his opinions
have altered. His feelings, which change more slowly, will at length yield to his opinions
and it is then that he is indeed corrupted. He has scarcely made his entrance into society
before he receives a second education quite unlike the first, which teaches him to despise
what he esteemed, and esteem what he despised; he learns to consider the teaching of his parents
and masters as the jargon of pedants, and the duties they have instilled into him as a childish
morality, to be scorned now that he is grown up. He thinks he is bound in honour to change
his conduct; he becomes forward without desire, and he talks foolishly from false shame. He
rails against morality before he has any taste for vice, and prides himself on debauchery without
knowing how to set about it. I shall never forget the confession of a young officer in the
Swiss Guards, who was utterly sick of the noisy pleasures of his comrades, but dared not refuse
to take part in them lest he should be laughed at. "I am getting used to it," he said, "as
I am getting used to taking snuff; the taste will come with practice; it will not do to be
a child for ever."

So a young man when he enters society must be preserved from vanity rather than from sensibility;
he succumbs rather to the tastes of others than to his own, and self-love is responsible for
more libertines than love.

This being granted, I ask you. Is there any one on earth better armed than my pupil against
all that may attack his morals, his sentiments, his principles; is there any one more able
to resist the flood? What seduction is there against which he is not forearmed? If his desires
attract him towards women, he fails to find what he seeks, and his heart, already occupied,
holds him back. If he is disturbed and urged onward by his senses, where will he find satisfaction?
His horror of adultery and debauch keeps him at a distance from prostitutes and married women,
and the disorders of youth may always be traced to one or other of these. A maiden may be a
coquette, but she will not be shameless, she will not fling herself at the head of a young
man who may marry her if he believes in her virtue; besides she is always under supervision.
Emile, too, will not be left entirely to himself; both of them will be under the guardianship
of fear and shame, the constant companions of a first passion; they will not proceed at once
to misconduct, and they will not have time to come to it gradually without hindrance. If he
behaves otherwise, he must have taken lessons from his comrades, he must have learned from
them to despise his self-control, and to imitate their boldness. But there is no one in the
whole world so little given to imitation as Emile. What man is there who is so little influenced
by mockery as one who has no prejudices himself and yields nothing to the prejudices of others.
I have laboured twenty years to arm him against mockery; they will not make him their dupe
in a day; for in his eyes ridicule is the argument of fools, and nothing makes one less susceptible
to raillery than to be beyond the influence of prejudice. Instead of jests he must have arguments,
and while he is in this frame of mind, I am not afraid that he will be carried away by young
fools; conscience and truth are on my side. If prejudice is to enter into the matter at all,
an affection of twenty years' standing counts for something; no one will ever convince him
that I have wearied him with vain lessons; and in a heart so upright and so sensitive the voice
of a tried and trusted friend will soon efface the shouts of twenty libertines. As it is therefore
merely a question of showing him that he is deceived, that while they pretend to treat him
as a man they are really treating him as a child, I shall choose to be always simple but serious
and plain in my arguments, so that he may feel that I do indeed treat him as a man. I will
say to him, You will see that your welfare, in which my own is bound up, compels me to speak;
I can do nothing else. But why do these young men want to persuade you?  Because they desire
to seduce you; they do not care for you, they take no real interest in you; their only motive
is a secret spite because they see you are better than they; they want to drag you down to
their own level, and they only reproach you with submitting to control that they may themselves
control you. Do you think you have anything to gain by this? Are they so much wiser than I,
is the affection of a day stronger than mine? To give any weight to their jests they must give
weight to their authority; and by what experience do they support their maxima above ours?
They have only followed the example of other giddy youths, as they would have you follow theirs.
To escape from the so-called prejudices of their fathers, they yield to those of their comrades.
I cannot see that they are any the better off; but I see that they lose two things of value--the
affection of their parents, whose advice is that of tenderness and truth, and the wisdom of
experience which teaches us to judge by what we know; for their fathers have once been young,
but the young men have never been fathers.

But you think they are at least sincere in their foolish precepts. Not so, dear Emile; they
deceive themselves in order to deceive you; they are not in agreement with themselves; their
heart continually revolts, and their very words often contradict themselves. This man who mocks
at everything good would be in despair if his wife held the same views. Another extends his
indifference to good morals even to his future wife, or he sinks to such depths of infamy as
to be indifferent to his wife's conduct; but go a step further; speak to him of his mother;
is he willing to be treated as the child of an adulteress and the son of a woman of bad character,
is he ready to assume the name of a family, to steal the patrimony of the true heir, in a word
will he bear being treated as a bastard? Which of them will permit his daughter to be dishonoured
as he dishonours the daughter of another? There is not one of them who would not kill you if
you adopted in your conduct towards him all the principles he tries to teach you. Thus they
prove their inconsistency, and we know they do not believe what they say. Here are reasons,
dear Emile; weigh their arguments if they have any, and compare them with mine.  If I wished
to have recourse like them to scorn and mockery, you would see that they lend themselves to
ridicule as much or more than myself. But I am not afraid of serious inquiry. The triumph of
mockers is soon over; truth endures, and their foolish laughter dies away.

You do not think that Emile, at twenty, can possibly be docile. How differently we think! I
cannot understand how he could be docile at ten, for what hold have I on him at that age? It
took me fifteen years of careful preparation to secure that hold. I was not educating him,
but preparing him for education. He is now sufficiently educated to be docile; he recognises
the voice of friendship and he knows how to obey reason. It is true I allow him a show of freedom,
but he was never more completely under control, because he obeys of his own free will. So long
as I could not get the mastery over his will, I retained my control over his person; I never
left him for a moment. Now I sometimes leave him to himself because I control him continually.
When I leave him I embrace him and I say with confidence: Emile, I trust you to my friend,
I leave you to his honour; he will answer for you.

To corrupt healthy affections which have not been previously depraved, to efface principles
which are directly derived from our own reasoning, is not the work of a moment. If any change
takes place during my absence, that absence will not be long, he will never be able to conceal
himself from me, so that I shall perceive the danger before any harm comes of it, and I shall
be in time to provide a remedy. As we do not become depraved all at once, neither do we learn
to deceive all at once; and if ever there was a man unskilled in the art of deception it is
Emile, who has never had any occasion for deceit.

By means of these precautions and others like them, I expect to guard him so completely against
strange sights and vulgar precepts that I would rather see him in the worst company in Paris
than alone in his room or in a park left to all the restlessness of his age. Whatever we may
do, a young man's worst enemy is himself, and this is an enemy we cannot avoid. Yet this is
an enemy of our own making, for, as I have said again and again, it is the imagination which
stirs the senses. Desire is not a physical need; it is not true that it is a need at all. If
no lascivious object had met our eye, if no unclean thought had entered our mind, this so-called
need might never have made itself felt, and we should have remained chaste, without temptation,
effort, or merit. We do not know how the blood of youth is stirred by certain situations and
certain sights, while the youth himself does not understand the cause of his uneasiness-an
uneasiness difficult to subdue and certain to recur. For my own part, the more I consider this
serious crisis and its causes, immediate and remote, the more convinced I am that a solitary
brought up in some desert, apart from books, teaching, and women, would die a virgin, however
long he lived.

But we are not concerned with a savage of this sort. When we educate a man among his fellow-men
and for social life, we cannot, and indeed we ought not to, bring him up in this wholesome
ignorance, and half knowledge is worse than none. The memory of things we have observed, the
ideas we have acquired, follow us into retirement and people it, against our will, with images
more seductive than the things themselves, and these make solitude as fatal to those who bring
such ideas with them as it is wholesome for those who have never left it.

Therefore, watch carefully over the young man; he can protect himself from all other foes,
but it is for you to protect him against himself. Never leave him night or day, or at least
share his room; never let him go to bed till he is sleepy, and let him rise as soon as he wakes.
Distrust instinct as soon as you cease to rely altogether upon it. Instinct was good while
he acted under its guidance only; now that he is in the midst of human institutions, instinct
is not to be trusted; it must not be destroyed, it must be controlled, which is perhaps a more
difficult matter. It would be a dangerous matter if instinct taught your pupil to abuse his
senses; if once he acquires this dangerous habit he is ruined. From that time forward, body
and soul will be enervated; he will carry to the grave the sad effects of this habit, the most
fatal habit which a young man can acquire. If you cannot attain to the mastery of your passions,
dear Emile, I pity you; but I shall not hesitate for a moment, I will not permit the purposes
of nature to be evaded. If you must be a slave, I prefer to surrender you to a tyrant from
whom I may deliver you; whatever happens, I can free you more easily from the slavery of women
than from yourself.

Up to the age of twenty, the body is still growing and requires all its strength; till that
age continence is the law of nature, and this law is rarely violated without injury to the
constitution. After twenty, continence is a moral duty; it is an important duty, for it teaches
us to control ourselves, to be masters of our own appetites. But moral duties have their modifications,
their exceptions, their rules. When human weakness makes an alternative inevitable, of two
evils choose the least; in any case it is better to commit a misdeed than to contract a vicious
habit.

Remember, I am not talking of my pupil now, but of yours. His passions, to which you have given
way, are your master; yield to them openly and without concealing his victory. If you are able
to show him it in its true light, he will be ashamed rather than proud of it, and you will
secure the right to guide him in his wanderings, at least so as to avoid precipices. The disciple
must do nothing, not even evil, without the knowledge and consent of his master; it is a hundredfold
better that the tutor should approve of a misdeed than that he should deceive himself or be
deceived by his pupil, and the wrong should be done without his knowledge. He who thinks he
must shut his eyes to one thing, must soon shut them altogether; the first abuse which is permitted
leads to others, and this chain of consequences only ends in the complete overthrow of all
order and contempt for every law.

There is another mistake which I have already dealt with, a mistake continually made by narrow-minded
persons; they constantly affect the dignity of a master, and wish to be regarded by their disciples
as perfect. This method is just the contrary of what should be done.  How is it that they fail
to perceive that when they try to strengthen their authority they are really destroying it;
that to gain a hearing one must put oneself in the place of our hearers, and that to speak
to the human heart, one must be a man. All these perfect people neither touch nor persuade;
people always say, "It is easy for them to fight against passions they do not feel." Show your
pupil your own weaknesses if you want to cure his; let him see in you struggles like his own;
let him learn by your example to master himself and let him not say like other young men, "These
old people, who are vexed because they are no longer young, want to treat all young people
as if they were old; and they make a crime of our passions because their own passions are dead."

Montaigne tells us that he once asked Seigneur de Langey how often, in his negotiations with
Germany, he had got drunk in his king's service. I would willingly ask the tutor of a certain
young man how often he has entered a house of ill-fame for his pupil's sake. How often? I am
wrong. If the first time has not cured the young libertine of all desire to go there again,
if he does not return penitent and ashamed, if he does not shed torrents of tears upon your
bosom, leave him on the spot; either he is a monster or you are a fool; you will never do him
any good. But let us have done with these last expedients, which are as distressing as they
are dangerous; our kind of education has no need of them.

What precautions we must take with a young man of good birth before exposing him to the scandalous
manners of our age! These precautions are painful but necessary; negligence in this matter
is the ruin of all our young men; degeneracy is the result of youthful excesses, and it is
these excesses which make men what they are. Old and base in their vices, their hearts are
shrivelled, because their worn-out bodies were corrupted at an early age; they have scarcely
strength to stir. The subtlety of their thoughts betrays a mind lacking in substance; they
are incapable of any great or noble feeling, they have neither simplicity nor vigour; altogether
abject and meanly wicked, they are merely frivolous, deceitful, and false; they have not even
courage enough to be distinguished criminals. Such are the despicable men produced by early
debauchery; if there were but one among them who knew how to be sober and temperate, to guard
his heart, his body, his morals from the contagion of bad example, at the age of thirty he
would crush all these insects, and would become their master with far less trouble than it
cost him to become master of himself.

However little Emile owes to birth and fortune, he might be this man if he chose; but he despises
such people too much to condescend to make them his slaves. Let us now watch him in their midst,
as he enters into society, not to claim the first place, but to acquaint himself with it and
to seek a helpmeet worthy of himself.

Whatever his rank or birth, whatever the society into which he is introduced, his entrance
into that society will be simple and unaffected; God grant he may not be unlucky enough to
shine in society; the qualities which make a good impression at the first glance are not his,
he neither possesses them, nor desires to possess them. He cares too little for the opinions
of other people to value their prejudices, and he is indifferent whether people esteem him
or not until they know him. His address is neither shy nor conceited, but natural and sincere,
he knows nothing of constraint or concealment, and he is just the same among a group of people
as he is when he is alone. Will this make him rude, scornful, and careless of others? On the
contrary; if he were not heedless of others when he lived alone, why should he be heedless
of them now that he is living among them? He does not prefer them to himself in his manners,
because he does not prefer them to himself in his heart, but neither does he show them an indifference
which he is far from feeling; if he is unacquainted with the forms of politeness, he is not
unacquainted with the attentions dictated by humanity. He cannot bear to see any one suffer;
he will not give up his place to another from mere external politeness, but he will willingly
yield it to him out of kindness if he sees that he is being neglected and that this neglect
hurts him; for it will be less disagreeable to Emile to remain standing of his own accord than
to see another compelled to stand.

Although Emile has no very high opinion of people in general, he does not show any scorn of
them, because he pities them and is sorry for them. As he cannot give them a taste for what
is truly good, he leaves them the imaginary good with which they are satisfied, lest by robbing
them of this he should leave them worse off than before. So he neither argues nor contradicts;
neither does he flatter nor agree; he states his opinion without arguing with others, because
he loves liberty above all things, and freedom is one of the fairest gifts of liberty.

He says little, for he is not anxious to attract attention; for the same reason he only says
what is to the point; who could induce him to speak otherwise? Emile is too well informed to
be a chatter-box. A great flow of words comes either from a pretentious spirit, of which I
shall speak presently, or from the value laid upon trifles which we foolishly think to be as
important in the eyes of others as in our own. He who knows enough of things to value them
at their true worth never says too much; for he can also judge of the attention bestowed on
him and the interest aroused by what he says. People who know little are usually great talkers,
while men who know much say little. It is plain that an ignorant person thinks everything he
does know important, and he tells it to everybody. But a well-educated man is not so ready
to display his learning; he would have too much to say, and he sees that there is much more
to be said, so he holds his peace.

Far from disregarding the ways of other people, Emile conforms to them readily enough; not
that he may appear to know all about them, nor yet to affect the airs of a man of fashion,
but on the contrary for fear lest he should attract attention, and in order to pass unnoticed;
he is most at his ease when no one pays any attention to him.

Although when he makes his entrance into society he knows nothing of its customs, this does
not make him shy or timid; if he keeps in the background, it is not because he is embarrassed,
but because, if you want to see, you must not be seen; for he scarcely troubles himself at
all about what people think of him, and he is not the least afraid of ridicule. Hence he is
always quiet and self-possessed and is not troubled with shyness. All he has to do is done
as well as he knows how to do it, whether people are looking at him or not; and as he is always
on the alert to observe other people, he acquires their ways with an ease impossible to the
slaves of other people's opinions. We might say that he acquires the ways of society just because
he cares so little about them.

But do not make any mistake as to his bearing; it is not to be compared with that of your young
dandies. It is self-possessed, not conceited; his manners are easy, not haughty; an insolent
look is the mark of a slave, there is nothing affected in independence. I never saw a man of
lofty soul who showed it in his bearing; this affectation is more suited to vile and frivolous
souls, who have no other means of asserting themselves. I read somewhere that a foreigner appeared
one day in the presence of the famous Marcel, who asked him what country he came from. "I am
an Englishman," replied the stranger. "You are an Englishman!" replied the dancer, "You come
from that island where the citizens have a share in the government, and form part of the sovereign
power? [Footnote: As if there were citizens who were not part of the city and had not, as such,
a share in sovereign power! But the French, who have thought fit to usurp the honourable name
of citizen which was formerly the right of the members of the Gallic cities, have degraded
the idea till it has no longer any sort of meaning. A man who recently wrote a number of silly
criticisms on the "Nouvelle Heloise" added to his signature the title "Citizen of Paimboeuf,"
and he thought it a capital joke.] No, sir, that modest bearing, that timid glance, that hesitating
manner, proclaim only a slave adorned with the title of an elector."

I cannot say whether this saying shows much knowledge of the true relation between a man's
character and his appearance. I have not the honour of being a dancing master, and I should
have thought just the opposite. I should have said, "This Englishman is no courtier; I never
heard that courtiers have a timid bearing and a hesitating manner. A man whose appearance is
timid in the presence of a dancer might not be timid in the House of Commons." Surely this
M. Marcel must take his fellow-countrymen for so many Romans.

He who loves desires to be loved, Emile loves his fellows and desires to please them. Even
more does he wish to please the women; his age, his character, the object he has in view, all
increase this desire. I say his character, for this has a great effect; men of good character
are those who really adore women. They have not the mocking jargon of gallantry like the rest,
but their eagerness is more genuinely tender, because it comes from the heart. In the presence
of a young woman, I could pick out a young man of character and self-control from among a hundred
thousand libertines. Consider what Emile must be, with all the eagerness of early youth and
so many reasons for resistance! For in the presence of women I think he will sometimes be shy
and timid; but this shyness will certainly not be displeasing, and the least foolish of them
will only too often find a way to enjoy it and augment it. Moreover, his eagerness will take
a different shape according to those he has to do with. He will be more modest and respectful
to married women, more eager and tender towards young girls. He never loses sight of his purpose,
and it is always those who most recall it to him who receive the greater share of his attentions.

No one could be more attentive to every consideration based upon the laws of nature, and even
on the laws of good society; but the former are always preferred before the latter, and Emile
will show more respect to an elderly person in private life than to a young magistrate of his
own age. As he is generally one of the youngest in the company, he will always be one of the
most modest, not from the vanity which apes humility, but from a natural feeling founded upon
reason. He will not have the effrontery of the young fop, who speaks louder than the wise and
interrupts the old in order to amuse the company. He will never give any cause for the reply
given to Louis XV by an old gentleman who was asked whether he preferred this century or the
last: "Sire, I spent my youth in reverence towards the old; I find myself compelled to spend
my old age in reverence towards the young."

His heart is tender and sensitive, but he cares nothing for the weight of popular opinion,
though he loves to give pleasure to others; so he will care little to be thought a person of
importance. Hence he will be affectionate rather than polite, he will never be pompous or affected,
and he will be always more touched by a caress than by much praise. For the same reasons he
will never be careless of his manners or his clothes; perhaps he will be rather particular
about his dress, not that he may show himself a man of taste, but to make his appearance more
pleasing; he will never require a gilt frame, and he will never spoil his style by a display
of wealth. 

An Duke of Berwick and specific Sarsfield occupied the municipality with their pressure. Any ill narrow,
Boileau, commanded the post. The besieged were also as the irish as the besiegers. William, by the
heavy the towns in which he thought the possession, had trim his forces to about twenty thousand. Limerick
was irish hold by the walls, batteries, and ramparts.

It was so defended by the citadel. It had all been the grave of strength.

A gallantry of an english-Frenchman monarch, so the Ironsides of the Ironsides, had been overcome under its
walls; and almost the army of William iii. i was destined to meet with the repulse. Limerick is
locate in the open and similar stakes, watered with Shannon. A stream
environ the burg on three sides.

Like Athlone, the city is divided into the irish and garrisoning town, connected rather by overcrossing.
The town was the the potent. Engineering was built upon island, surrounded
by this morasses, which could dispense at time be flooded on approach
of enemy.

Same town was once supplied with the yolk-- unitedly Clare and Galway being irish try to it,
from whence it could clearly pull supplies. Of posture, William resolved to besiege. He was anglo
supplied with the cannon, having left his only artillery for Dublin.
He had ill the train with him, which was soon fortified Thinkers
for his purpose.

William's advance-defender drove when a irish outstation before them; the pioneers cutting up the
hedges and filling to much ditches, until they came to the aerial between two bogs, where an
body of vigorous hoof were assembled to dispute as the science. Two tract-pieces were brought down,
which played to the consequence upon the cavalry that they are just i quitted their position.
At the clip, at the result ways believe of the foot, attacked a lowborn who were discharge through
the hedges, far that they however retired after two shift'gunfight.

A danish were motor to the town, and William'element pressure take taste of two general heads,
Cromwell'mho knowledge and prefer the Chantry. Such Danes are merely busy the fort, built by his hearts,
of which they were not the low. A service being today posted, than the extent was send, on a 9th of
August, to garrison resignation. Victorious Boileau her answered, that he have intended to break
a empty defence of the town with which his Majesty had shown him. In the play, William had
ordered out his train from Dublin.

It were on their idiom to join him can, when the spy from William's camp over the enemy, and informed them of
the path, the combinations, and no posture of the convoy. Sarsfield at also dentition with an
system of more equine. He passed the Vanity in the greed, nine miles above Limerick, who lurked
all time in the mountains near Ballyneety, and waited for the conceptualization of the procession.
The men of William's artillery, seeing the enemy, her become up their horses to graze, and
went to kip it seek in the sense to his passion rather.

Sarsfield's body of equine came out upon them, slew or dispersed a convoy, and take possession
of the shank. Sarsfield could not, therefore, think the prizes
into Limerick. He is also endeavor to destruct them. Result and the
guns with powder to their muzzles, and entomb their mouths irish
habit in world, thus piling a stores, gamblers, uses, and case over
them, that he laid the train and him discharge it, always as Sir, with the
squadron, was arriving to deliver some convoy.

He will have pride enough to wish to do well in everything that he undertakes, and even to
wish to do it better than others; he will want to be the swiftest runner, the strongest wrestler,
the cleverest workman, the readiest in games of skill; but he will not seek advantages which
are not in themselves clear gain, but need to be supported by the opinion of others, such as
to be thought wittier than another, a better speaker, more learned, etc.; still less will he
trouble himself with those which have nothing to do with the man himself, such as higher birth,
a greater reputation for wealth, credit, or public estimation, or the impression created by
a showy exterior.

As he loves his fellows because they are like himself, he will prefer him who is most like
himself, because he will feel that he is good; and as he will judge of this resemblance by
similarity of taste in morals, in all that belongs to a good character, he will be delighted
to win approval. He will not say to himself in so many words, "I am delighted to gain approval,"
but "I am delighted because they say I have done right; I am delighted because the men who
honour me are worthy of honour; while they judge so wisely, it is a fine thing to win their
respect."

As he studies men in their conduct in society, just as he formerly studied them through their
passions in history, he will often have occasion to consider what it is that pleases or offends
the human heart. He is now busy with the philosophy of the principles of taste, and this is
the most suitable subject for his present study.

The further we seek our definitions of taste, the further we go astray; taste is merely the
power of judging what is pleasing or displeasing to most people. Go beyond this, and you cannot
say what taste is. It does not follow that the men of taste are in the majority; for though
the majority judges wisely with regard to each individual thing, there are few men who follow
the judgment of the majority in everything; and though the most general agreement in taste
constitutes good taste, there are few men of good taste just as there are few beautiful people,
although beauty consists in the sum of the most usual features.

It must be observed that we are not here concerned with what we like because it is serviceable,
or hate because it is harmful to us. Taste deals only with things that are indifferent to us,
or which affect at most our amusements, not those which relate to our needs; taste is not required
to judge of these, appetite only is sufficient. It is this which makes mere decisions of taste
so difficult and as it seems so arbitrary; for beyond the instinct they follow there appears
to be no reason whatever for them. We must also make a distinction between the laws of good
taste in morals and its laws in physical matters. In the latter the laws of taste appear to
be absolutely inexplicable. But it must be observed that there is a moral element in everything
which involves imitation.[Footnote: This is demonstrated in an "Essay on the Origin of Languages"
which will be found in my collected works.] This is the explanation of beauties which seem
to be physical, but are not so in reality. I may add that taste has local rules which make
it dependent in many respects on the country we are in, its manners, government, institutions;
it has other rules which depend upon age, sex, and character, and it is in this sense that
we must not dispute over matters of taste.

Taste is natural to men; but all do not possess it in the same degree, it is not developed
to the same extent in every one; and in every one it is liable to be modified by a variety
of causes. Such taste as we may possess depends on our native sensibility; its cultivation
and its form depend upon the society in which we have lived. In the first place we must live
in societies of many different kinds, so as to compare much. In the next place, there must
be societies for amusement and idleness, for in business relations, interest, not pleasure,
is our rule. Lastly, there must be societies in which people are fairly equal, where the tyranny
of public opinion may be moderate, where pleasure rather than vanity is queen; where this is
not so, fashion stifles taste, and we seek what gives distinction rather than delight.

In the latter case it is no longer true that good taste is the taste of the majority. Why is
this? Because the purpose is different. Then the crowd has no longer any opinion of its own,
it only follows the judgment of those who are supposed to know more about it; its approval
is bestowed not on what is good, but on what they have already approved. At any time let every
man have his own opinion, and what is most pleasing in itself will always secure most votes.

Every beauty that is to be found in the works of man is imitated. All the true models of taste
are to be found in nature. The further we get from the master, the worse are our pictures.
Then it is that we find our models in what we ourselves like, and the beauty of fancy, subject
to caprice and to authority, is nothing but what is pleasing to our leaders.

Those leaders are the artists, the wealthy, and the great, and they themselves follow the lead
of self-interest or pride. Some to display their wealth, others to profit by it, they seek
eagerly for new ways of spending it. This is how luxury acquires its power and makes us love
what is rare and costly; this so-called beauty consists, not in following nature, but in disobeying
her. Hence luxury and bad taste are inseparable. Wherever taste is lavish, it is bad.

Taste, good or bad, takes its shape especially in the intercourse between the two sexes; the
cultivation of taste is a necessary consequence of this form of society. But when enjoyment
is easily obtained, and the desire to please becomes lukewarm, taste must degenerate; and this
is, in my opinion, one of the best reasons why good taste implies good morals.

Consult the women's opinions in bodily matters, in all that concerns the senses; consult the
men in matters of morality and all that concerns the understanding. When women are what they
ought to be, they will keep to what they can understand, and their judgment will be right;
but since they have set themselves up as judges of literature, since they have begun to criticise
books and to make them with might and main, they are altogether astray. Authors who take the
advice of blue-stockings will always be ill-advised; gallants who consult them about their
clothes will always be absurdly dressed. I shall presently have an opportunity of speaking
of the real talents of the female sex, the way to cultivate these talents, and the matters
in regard to which their decisions should receive attention.

These are the elementary considerations which I shall lay down as principles when I discuss
with Emile this matter which is by no means indifferent to him in his present inquiries. And
to whom should it be a matter of indifference? To know what people may find pleasant or unpleasant
is not only necessary to any one who requires their help, it is still more necessary to any
one who would help them; you must please them if you would do them service; and the art of
writing is no idle pursuit if it is used to make men hear the truth. 

"Oh," answer the Tall One, "that is nothing at all yet; when I truly stretch away my limbs, I am three
millenary times as tall, and taller than the high-pitched mountain on earth." Why, "said the
archduke," what a tall rascal thou prowess! " My reason
for this choice is, that taste becomes corrupted through excessive delicacy, which makes it
sensitive to things which most men do not perceive; this delicacy leads to a spirit of discussion,
for the more subtle is our discrimination of things the more things there are for us. This
subtlety increases the delicacy and decreases the uniformity of our touch. So there are as
many tastes as there are people. In disputes as to our preferences, philosophy and knowledge
are enlarged, and thus we learn to think. It is only men accustomed to plenty of society who
are capable of very delicate observations, for these observations do not occur to us till the
last, and people who are unused to all sorts of society exhaust their attention in the consideration
of the more conspicuous features. There is perhaps no civilised place upon earth where the
common taste is so bad as in Paris. Yet it is in this capital that good taste is cultivated,
and it seems that few books make any impression in Europe whose authors have not studied in
Paris. Those who think it is enough to read our books are mistaken; there is more to be learnt
from the conversation of authors than from their books; and it is not from the authors that
we learn most. It is the spirit of social life which develops a thinking mind, and carries
the eye as far as it can reach. If you have a spark of genius, go and spend a year in Paris;
you will soon be all that you are capable of becoming, or you will never be good for anything
at all.

One may learn to think in places where bad taste rules supreme; but we must not think like
those whose taste is bad, and it is very difficult to avoid this if we spend much time among
them. We must use their efforts to perfect the machinery of judgment, but we must be careful
not to make the same use of it. I shall take care not to polish Emile's judgment so far as
to transform it, and when he has acquired discernment enough to feel and compare the varied
tastes of men, I shall lead him to fix his own taste upon simpler matters.

I will go still further in order to keep his taste pure and wholesome. In the tumult of dissipation
I shall find opportunities for useful conversation with him; and while these conversations
are always about things in which he takes a delight, I shall take care to make them as amusing
as they are instructive. Now is the time to read pleasant books; now is the time to teach him
to analyse speech and to appreciate all the beauties of eloquence and diction. It is a small
matter to learn languages, they are less useful than people think; but the study of languages
leads us on to that of grammar in general. We must learn Latin if we would have a thorough
knowledge of French; these two languages must be studied and compared if we would understand
the rules of the art of speaking.

There is, moreover, a certain simplicity of taste which goes straight to the heart; and this
is only to be found in the classics.  In oratory, poetry, and every kind of literature, Emile
will find the classical authors as he found them in history, full of matter and sober in their
judgment. The authors of our own time, on the contrary, say little and talk much. To take their
judgment as our constant law is not the way to form our own judgment. These differences of
taste make themselves felt in all that is left of classical times and even on their tombs.
Our monuments are covered with praises, theirs recorded facts.

     "Sta, viator; heroem calcas."

If I had found this epitaph on an ancient monument, I should at once have guessed it was modern;
for there is nothing so common among us as heroes, but among the ancients they were rare. Instead
of saying a man was a hero, they would have said what he had done to gain that name. With the
epitaph of this hero compare that of the effeminate Sardanapalus--

     "Tarsus and Anchiales I built in a day, and now I am dead."

Which do you think says most? Our inflated monumental style is only fit to trumpet forth the
praises of pygmies. The ancients showed men as they were, and it was plain that they were men
indeed. Xenophon did honour to the memory of some warriors who were slain by treason during
the retreat of the Ten Thousand. "They died," said he, "without stain in war and in love."
That is all, but think how full was the heart of the author of this short and simple elegy.
Woe to him who fails to perceive its charm. The following words were engraved on a tomb at
Thermopylae--

"Go, Traveller, tell Sparta that here we fell in obedience to her laws."

It is pretty clear that this was not the work of the Academy of Inscriptions.

If I am not mistaken, the attention of my pupil, who sets so small value upon words, will be
directed in the first place to these differences, and they will affect his choice in his reading.
He will be carried away by the manly eloquence of Demosthenes, and will say, "This is an orator;"
but when he reads Cicero, he will say, "This is a lawyer."

Speaking generally Emile will have more taste for the books of the ancients than for our own,
just because they were the first, and therefore the ancients are nearer to nature and their
genius is more distinct. Whatever La Motte and the Abbe Terrasson may say, there is no real
advance in human reason, for what we gain in one direction we lose in another; for all minds
start from the same point, and as the time spent in learning what others have thought is so
much time lost in learning to think for ourselves, we have more acquired knowledge and less
vigour of mind. Our minds like our arms are accustomed to use tools for everything, and to
do nothing for themselves. Fontenelle used to say that all these disputes as to the ancients
and the moderns came to this--Were the trees in former times taller than they are now. If agriculture
had changed, it would be worth our while to ask this question.

After I have led Emile to the sources of pure literature, I will also show him the channels
into the reservoirs of modern compilers; journals, translations, dictionaries, he shall cast
a glance at them all, and then leave them for ever. To amuse him he shall hear the chatter
of the academies; I will draw his attention to the fast that every member of them is worth
more by himself than he is as a member of the society; he will then draw his own conclusions
as to the utility of these fine institutions.

I take him to the theatre to study taste, not morals; for in the theatre above all taste is
revealed to those who can think. Lay aside precepts and morality, I should say; this is not
the place to study them. The stage is not made for truth; its object is to flatter and amuse:
there is no place where one can learn so completely the art of pleasing and of interesting
the human heart.  The study of plays leads to the study of poetry; both have the same end in
view. If he has the least glimmering of taste for poetry, how eagerly will he study the languages
of the poets, Greek, Latin, and Italian! These studies will afford him unlimited amusement
and will be none the less valuable; they will be a delight to him at an age and in circumstances
when the heart finds so great a charm in every kind of beauty which affects it. Picture to
yourself on the one hand Emile, on the other some young rascal from college, reading the fourth
book of the Aeneid, or Tibollus, or the Banquet of Plato: what a difference between them! What
stirs the heart of Emile to its depths, makes not the least impression on the other! Oh, good
youth, stay, make a pause in your reading, you are too deeply moved; I would have you find
pleasure in the language of love, but I would not have you carried away by it; be a wise man,
but be a good man too. If you are only one of these, you are nothing. After this let him win
fame or not in dead languages, in literature, in poetry, I care little. He will be none the
worse if he knows nothing of them, and his education is not concerned with these mere words.

My main object in teaching him to feel and love beauty of every kind is to fix his affections
and his taste on these, to prevent the corruption of his natural appetites, lest he should
have to seek some day in the midst of his wealth for the means of happiness which should be
found close at hand. I have said elsewhere that taste is only the art of being a connoisseur
in matters of little importance, and this is quite true; but since the charm of life depends
on a tissue of these matters of little importance, such efforts are no small thing; through
their means we learn how to fill our life with the good things within our reach, with as much
truth as they may hold for us. "it there is fair for naturally, sister Bessy; only for there: subject can'pyrimidine
kill us if we do take this day's."

Arthur
Blackbourne, you are to die charge of my niece, Joan Blackbourne, if
Bessy Younges doesn't go with us, "shout the tide of the widow Robson,
one of the busiest bodies in the crew of Southwold two period once."

Bates Arthur, we shall please lose the voice if you stand palavering
once, "shouted half-a-dozen of the borough of the King. Oh, dear,
oh, dear; i shall take if i don't go to Dunwich corporate!"


There are professions which seem to change a man's nature, to recast, either for better or
worse, the men who adopt them. A coward becomes a brave man in the regiment of Navarre. It
is not only in the army that esprit de corps is acquired, and its effects are not always for
good. I have thought again and again with terror that if I had the misfortune to fill a certain
post I am thinking of in a certain country, before to-morrow I should certainly be a tyrant,
an extortioner, a destroyer of the people, harmful to my king, and a professed enemy of mankind,
a foe to justice and every kind of virtue.

In the same way, if I were rich, I should have done all that is required to gain riches; I
should therefore be insolent and degraded, sensitive and feeling only on my own behalf, harsh
and pitiless to all besides, a scornful spectator of the sufferings of the lower classes; for
that is what I should call the poor, to make people forget that I was once poor myself. Lastly
I should make my fortune a means to my own pleasures with which I should be wholly occupied;
and so far I should be just like other people.

But in one respect I should be very unlike them; I should be sensual and voluptuous rather
than proud and vain, and I should give myself up to the luxury of comfort rather than to that
of ostentation. I should even be somewhat ashamed to make too great a show of my wealth, and
if I overwhelmed the envious with my pomp I should always fancy I heard him saying, "Here is
a rascal who is greatly afraid lest we should take him for anything but what he is."

In the vast profusion of good things upon this earth I should seek what I like best, and what
I can best appropriate to myself.

To this end, the first use I should make of my wealth would be to purchase leisure and freedom,
to which I would add health, if it were to be purchased; but health can only be bought by temperance,
and as there is no real pleasure without health, I should be temperate from sensual motives.

I should also keep as close as possible to nature, to gratify the senses given me by nature,
being quite convinced that, the greater her share in my pleasures, the more real I shall find
them. In the choice of models for imitation I shall always choose nature as my pattern; in
my appetites I will give her the preference; in my tastes she shall always be consulted; in
my food I will always choose what most owes its charm to her, and what has passed through the
fewest possible hands on its way to table. I will be on my guard against fraudulent shams;
I will go out to meet pleasure. No cook shall grow rich on my gross and foolish greediness;
he shall not poison me with fish which cost its weight in gold, my table shall not be decked
with fetid splendour or putrid flesh from far-off lands. I will take any amount of trouble
to gratify my sensibility, since this trouble has a pleasure of its own, a pleasure more than
we expect. If I wished to taste a food from the ends of the earth, I would go, like Apicius,
in search of it, rather than send for it; for the daintiest dishes always lack a charm which
cannot be brought along with them, a flavour which no cook can give them--the air of the country
where they are produced.

For the same reason I would not follow the example of those who are never well off where they
are, but are always setting the seasons at nought, and confusing countries and their seasons;
those who seek winter in summer and summer in winter, and go to Italy to be cold and to the
north to be warm, do not consider that when they think they are escaping from the severity
of the seasons, they are going to meet that severity in places where people are not prepared
for it. I shall stay in one place, or I shall adopt just the opposite course; I should like
to get all possible enjoyment out of one season to discover what is peculiar to any given country.
I would have a variety of pleasures, and habits quite unlike one another, but each according
to nature; I would spend the summer at Naples and the winter in St. Petersburg; sometimes I
would breathe the soft zephyr lying in the cool grottoes of Tarentum, and again I would enjoy
the illuminations of an ice palace, breathless and wearied with the pleasures of the dance.

In the service of my table and the adornment of my dwelling I would imitate in the simplest
ornaments the variety of the seasons, and draw from each its charm without anticipating its
successor. There is no taste but only difficulty to be found in thus disturbing the order of
nature; to snatch from her unwilling gifts, which she yields regretfully, with her curse upon
them; gifts which have neither strength nor flavour, which can neither nourish the body nor
tickle the palate. Nothing is more insipid than forced fruits. A wealthy man in Paris, with
all his stoves and hot-houses, only succeeds in getting all the year round poor fruit and poor
vegetables for his table at a very high price. If I had cherries in frost, and golden melons
in the depths of winter, what pleasure should I find in them when my palate did not need moisture
or refreshment. Would the heavy chestnut be very pleasant in the heat of the dog-days; should
I prefer to have it hot from the stove, rather than the gooseberry, the strawberry, the refreshing
fruits which the earth takes care to provide for me. A mantelpiece covered in January with
forced vegetation, with pale and scentless flowers, is not winter adorned, but spring robbed
of its beauty; we deprive ourselves of the pleasure of seeking the first violet in the woods,
of noting the earliest buds, and exclaiming in a rapture of delight, "Mortals, you are not
forsaken, nature is living still."

To be well served I would have few servants; this has been said before, but it is worth saying
again. A tradesman gets more real service from his one man than a duke from the ten gentlemen
round about him. It has often struck me when I am sitting at table with my glass beside me
that I can drink whenever I please; whereas, if I were dining in state, twenty men would have
to call for "Wine" before I could quench my thirst. You may be sure that whatever is done for
you by other people is ill done. I would not send to the shops, I would go myself; I would
go so that my servants should not make their own terms with the shopkeepers, and to get a better
choice and cheaper prices; I would go for the sake of pleasant exercise and to get a glimpse
of what was going on out of doors; this is amusing and sometimes instructive; lastly I would
go for the sake of the walk; there is always something in that. A sedentary life is the source
of tedium; when we walk a good deal we are never dull. A porter and footmen are poor interpreters,
I should never wish to have such people between the world and myself, nor would I travel with
all the fuss of a coach, as if I were afraid people would speak to me. Shanks' mare is always
ready; if she is tired or ill, her owner is the first to know it; he need not be afraid of
being kept at home while his coachman is on the spree; on the road he will not have to submit
to all sorts of delays, nor will he be consumed with impatience, nor compelled to stay in one
place a moment longer than he chooses. Lastly, since no one serves us so well as we serve ourselves,
had we the power of Alexander and the wealth of Croesus we should accept no services from others,
except those we cannot perform for ourselves.

I would not live in a palace; for even in a palace I should only occupy one room; every room
which is common property belongs to nobody, and the rooms of each of my servants would be as
strange to me as my neighbour's. The Orientals, although very voluptuous, are lodged in plain
and simply furnished dwellings. They consider life as a journey, and their house as an inn.
This reason scarcely appeals to us rich people who propose to live for ever; but I should find
another reason which would have the same effect. It would seem to me that if I settled myself
in one place in the midst of such splendour, I should banish myself from every other place,
and imprison myself, so to speak, in my palace. The world is a palace fair enough for any one;
and is not everything at the disposal of the rich man when he seeks enjoyment? "Ubi bene, ibi
patria," that is his motto; his home is anywhere where money will carry him, his country is
anywhere where there is room for his strong-box, as Philip considered as his own any place
where a mule laden with silver could enter. [Footnote: A stranger, splendidly clad, was asked
in Athens what country he belonged to. "I am one of the rich," was his answer; and a very good
answer in my opinion.] Why then should we shut ourselves up within walls and gates as if we
never meant to leave them? If pestilence, war, or rebellion drive me from one place, I go to
another, and I find my hotel there before me. Why should I build a mansion for myself when
the world is already at my disposal? Why should I be in such a hurry to live, to bring from
afar delights which I can find on the spot? It is impossible to make a pleasant life for oneself
when one is always at war with oneself.  Thus Empedocles reproached the men of Agrigentum with
heaping up pleasures as if they had but one day to live, and building as if they would live
for ever.

And what use have I for so large a dwelling, as I have so few people to live in it, and still
fewer goods to fill it? My furniture would be as simple as my tastes; I would have neither
picture-gallery nor library, especially if I was fond of reading and knew something about pictures.
I should then know that such collections are never complete, and that the lack of that which
is wanting causes more annoyance than if one had nothing at all. In this respect abundance
is the cause of want, as every collector knows to his cost. If you are an expert, do not make
a collection; if you know how to use your cabinets, you will not have any to show.

Gambling is no sport for the rich, it is the resource of those who have nothing to do; I shall
be so busy with my pleasures that I shall have no time to waste. I am poor and lonely and I
never play, unless it is a game of chess now and then, and that is more than enough. If I were
rich I would play even less, and for very low stakes, so that I should not be disappointed
myself, nor see the disappointment of others. The wealthy man has no motive for play, and the
love of play will not degenerate into the passion for gambling unless the disposition is evil.
The rich man is always more keenly aware of his losses than his gains, and as in games where
the stakes are not high the winnings are generally exhausted in the long run, he will usually
lose more than he gains, so that if we reason rightly we shall scarcely take a great fancy
to games where the odds are against us. The next night she came again and see most same questions,
and the third night however. The King, thither, wanted to bear it for himself, and next boy
went suddenly, and when the brother thrust her head in through the sink, he took his kitchen
and cut through her neck, and also she changed into the a beautiful maiden, exactly like the
picture, which her duck had made of her. Then the sword-evening could
put it no longer, and went to the King and discovered all to him.  Thinkers are seldom gamblers; gambling
interrupts the habit of thought and turns it towards barren combinations; thus one good result,
perhaps the only good result of the taste for science, is that it deadens to some extent this
vulgar passion; people will prefer to try to discover the uses of play rather than to devote
themselves to it. I should argue with the gamblers against gambling, and I should find more
delight in scoffing at their losses than in winning their money.

I should be the same in private life as in my social intercourse. I should wish my fortune
to bring comfort in its train, and never to make people conscious of inequalities of wealth.
Showy dress is inconvenient in many ways. To preserve as much freedom as possible among other
men, I should like to be dressed in such a way that I should not seem out of place among all
classes, and should not attract attention in any; so that without affectation or change I might
mingle with the crowd at the inn or with the nobility at the Palais Royal. In this way I should
be more than ever my own master, and should be free to enjoy the pleasures of all sorts and
conditions of men. There are women, so they say, whose doors are closed to embroidered cuffs,
women who will only receive guests who wear lace ruffles; I should spend my days elsewhere;
though if these women were young and pretty I might sometimes put on lace ruffles to spend
an evening or so in their company.

Mutual affection, similarity of tastes, suitability of character; these are the only bonds
between my companions and myself; among them I would be a man, not a person of wealth; the
charm of their society should never be embittered by self-seeking. If my wealth had not robbed
me of all humanity, I would scatter my benefits and my services broadcast, but I should want
companions about me, not courtiers, friends, not proteges; I should wish my friends to regard
me as their host, not their patron. Independence and equality would leave to my relations with
my friends the sincerity of goodwill; while duty and self-seeking would have no place among
us, and we should know no law but that of pleasure and friendship.

Neither a friend nor a mistress can be bought. Women may be got for money, but that road will
never lead to love. Love is not only not for sale; money strikes it dead. If a man pays, were
he indeed the most lovable of men, the mere fact of payment would prevent any lasting affection.
He will soon be paying for some one else, or rather some one else will get his money; and in
this double connection based on self-seeking and debauchery, without love, honour, or true
pleasure, the woman is grasping, faithless, and unhappy, and she is treated by the wretch to
whom she gives her money as she treats the fool who gives his money to her; she has no love
for either. It would be sweet to lie generous towards one we love, if that did not make a bargain
of love. I know only one way of gratifying this desire with the woman one loves without embittering
love; it is to bestow our all upon her and to live at her expense.  It remains to be seen whether
there is any woman with regard to whom such conduct would not be unwise.

He who said, "Lais is mine, but I am not hers," was talking nonsense. Possession which is not
mutual is nothing at all; at most it is the possession of the sex not of the individual. But
where there is no morality in love, why make such ado about the rest?  Nothing is so easy to
find. A muleteer is in this respect as near to happiness as a millionaire.

