THE EMANCIPATION OF MASSACHUSETTS THE DREAM AND THE REALITY

BY BROOKS ADAMS

PREFATORY NOTE TO FIRST EDITION.

I am under the deepest obligations to the Hon. Mellen Chamberlain and Mr. Charles Deane. Several times during night
rose up to pray at dawn, in the wet and cold days of the year, leaving home to go to church,
where he spent several hours on his knees, fasted with a rigor that had not seen in his ascetic
master of the seminar, prolonged abstinence, terrible that seemed impossible to resist; spent
sackcloth in the legs and arms, and disciplined Fridays and the eves of feasts. This detachment of the
flesh, this hatred of the beast never felt the young priest. In vain he had wanted to instill
his spiritual director, for nothing had worked their entire lives to acquire it. All was useless.
Bodily penances ached, so terrified him that he had just started to adjourn.
 THE WITCHCRAFT

CHAPTER VIII. BRATTLE CHURCH

CHAPTER IX. HARVARD COLLEGE

CHAPTER X. THE LAWYERS

CHAPTER XL. THE REVOLUTION

PREFACE TO NEW EDITION.

CHAPTER I

I wrote this little volume more than thirty years ago, since when I have hardly opened it.
Therefore I now read it almost as if it were written by another man, and I find to my relief
that, on the whole, I think rather better of it than I did when I published it. Indeed, as
a criticism of what were then the accepted views of Massachusetts history, as expounded by
her most authoritative historians, I see nothing in it to retract or even to modify. I do,
however, somewhat regret the rather acrimonious tone which I occasionally adopted when speaking
of the more conservative section of the clergy. Not that I think that the Mathers, for example,
and their like, did not deserve all, or, indeed, more than all I ever said or thought of them,
but because I conceive that equally effective strictures might have been conveyed in urbaner
language; and, as I age, I shrink from anything akin to invective, even in what amounts to
controversy.

Therefore I have now nothing to alter in the Emancipation of Massachusetts, viewed as history,
though I might soften its asperities somewhat, here and there; but when I come to consider
it as philosophy, I am startled to observe the gap which separates the present epoch from my
early middle life.

The last generation was strongly Darwinian in the sense that it accepted, almost as a tenet
of religious faith, the theory that human civilization is a progressive evolution, moving on
the whole steadily toward perfection, from a lower to a higher intellectual plane, and, as
a necessary part of its progress, developing a higher degree of mental vigor. I need hardly
observe that all belief in democracy as a final solution of social ills, all confidence in
education as a means to attaining to universal justice, and all hope of approximating to the
rule of moral right in the administration of law, was held to hinge on this great fundamental
dogma, which, it followed, it was almost impious to deny, or even to doubt. Thus, on the first
page of my book, I observe, as if it were axiomatic, that, at a given moment, toward the opening
of the sixteenth century, "Europe burst from her mediaeval torpor into the splendor of the
Renaissance," and further on I assume, as an equally self- evident axiom, that freedom of thought
was the one great permanent advance which western civilization made by all the agony and bloodshed
of the Reformation. Apart altogether from the fact that I should doubt whether, in the year
1919, any intelligent and educated man would be inclined to maintain that the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries were, as contrasted with the nineteenth, ages of intellectual torpor, what startles
me in these paragraphs is the self-satisfied assumption of the finality of my conclusions.
I posit, as a fact not to be controverted, that our universe is an expression of an universal
law, which the nineteenth century had discovered and could formulate.

During the past thirty years I have given this subject my best attention, and now I am so far
from assenting to this proposition that my mind tends in the opposite direction. Each day I
live I am less able to withstand the suspicion that the universe, far from being an expression
of law originating in a single primary cause, is a chaos which admits of reaching no equilibrium,
and with which man is doomed eternally and hopelessly to contend. For human society, to deserve
the name of civilization, must be an embodiment of order, or must at least tend toward a social
equilibrium. I take, as an illustration of my meaning, the development of the domestic relations
of our race.

I assume it to be generally admitted, that possibly man's first and probably his greatest advance
toward order--and, therefore, toward civilization--was the creation of the family as the social
nucleus. As Napoleon said, when the lawyers were drafting his Civil Code, "Make the family
responsible to its head, and the head to me, and I will keep order in France." And yet although
our dependence on the family system has been recognized in every age and in every land, there
has been no restraint on personal liberty which has been more resented, by both men and women
alike, than has been this bond which, when perfect, constrains one man and one woman to live
a joint life until death shall them part, for the propagation, care, and defence of their children.

The result is that no civilization has, as yet, ever succeeded, and none promises in the immediate
future to succeed, in enforcing this primary obligation, and we are thus led to consider the
cause, inherent in our complex nature, which makes it impossible for us to establish an equilibrium
between mind and matter. A difficulty which never has been even partially overcome, which wrecked
the Roman Empire and the Christian Church, which has wrecked all systems of law, and which
has never been more lucidly defined than by Saint Paul, in the Epistle to the Romans, "For
we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin. [Footnote: Romans vii, 14-24.]

And so it has been since a time transcending the limits of imagination. Here in a half-a-dozen
sentences Saint Paul exposes the ceaseless conflict between mind and matter, whose union, though
seemingly the essence of life, creates a condition which we cannot comprehend and to which
we could not hope to conform, even if we could comprehend it. In short, which indicates chaos
as being the probable core of an universe from which we must evolve order, if ever we are to
cope with violence, fraud, crime, war, and general brutality. Wheresoever we turn the prospect
is the same. If we gaze upon the heavens we discern immeasurable spaces sprinkled with globules
of matter, to which our earth seems to be more or less akin, but all plunging, apparently,
both furiously and aimlessly, from out of an infinite past to an equally immeasurable future.

Whence this material mass comes, or what its wild flight portends, we neither know nor could
we, probably, comprehend even were its secret divulged to us by a superior intelligence, always
conceding that there be such an intelligence, or any secret to disclose. These latter speculations
lie, however, beyond the scope of my present purpose. It suffices if science permits me to
postulate (a concession by science which I much doubt if it could make) that matter, as we
know it, has the semblance of being what we call a substance, charged with a something which
we define as energy, but which at all events simulates a vital principle resembling heat, seeking
to escape into space, where it cools. Thus the stars, having blazed until their vital principle
is absorbed in space, sink into relative torpor, or, as the astronomers say, die. The trees
and plants diffuse their energy in the infinite, and, at length, when nothing but a shell remains,
rot. Lastly, our fleshly bodies, when the union between mind and matter is dissolved, crumble
into dust. When the involuntary partnership between mind and matter ceases through death, it
is possible, or at least conceivable, that the impalpable soul, admitting that such a thing
exists, may survive in some medium where it may be free from material shackles, but, while
life endures, the flesh has wants which must be gratified, and which, therefore, take precedence
of the yearnings of the soul, just as Saint Paul points out was the case with himself; and
herein lies the inexorable conflict between the moral law and the law of competition which
favors the strong, and from whence comes all the abominations of selfishness, of violence,
of cruelty and crime.

Approached thus, perhaps no historical fragment is more suggestive than the exodus of the Jews
from Egypt under Moses, who was the first great optimist, nor one which is seldomer read with
an eye to the contrast which it discloses between Moses the law-giver, the idealist, the religious
prophet, and the visionary; and Moses the political adventurer and the keen and unscrupulous
man of the world. And yet it is here at the point at which mind and matter clashed, that Moses
merits most attention. For Moses and the Mosaic civilization broke down at this point, which
is, indeed, the chasm which has engulfed every progressive civilization since the dawn of time.
And the value of the story as an illustration of scientific history is its familiarity, for
no Christian child lives who has not been brought up on it.

We have all forgotten when we first learned how the Jews came to migrate to Egypt during the
years of the famine, when Joseph had become the minister of Pharaoh through his acuteness in
reading dreams. Also how, after their settlement in the land of Goshen,--which is the Egyptian
province lying at the end of the ancient caravan road, which Abraham travelled, leading from
Palestine to the banks of the Nile, and which had been the trade route, or path of least resistance,
between Asia and Africa, probably for ages before the earliest of human traditions,--they prospered
exceedingly. But at length they fell into a species of bondage which lasted several centuries,
during which they multiplied so rapidly that they finally raised in the Egyptian government
a fear of their domination. Nor, considering subsequent events, was this apprehension unreasonable.
At all events the Egyptian government is represented, as a measure of self-protection, as proposing
to kill male Jewish babies in order to reduce the Jewish military strength; and it was precisely
at this juncture that Moses was born, Moses, indeed, escaped the fate which menaced him, but
only by a narrow chance, and he was nourished by his mother in an atmosphere of hate which
tinged his whole life, causing him always to feel to the Egyptians as the slave feels to his
master. After birth the mother hid the child as long as possible, but when she could conceal
the infant no longer she platted a basket of reeds, smeared it with pitch, and set it adrift
in the Nile, where it was likely to be found, leaving her eldest daughter, named Miriam, to
watch over it. Presently Pharaoh's daughter came, as was her habit, to the river to bathe,
as Moses's mother expected that she would, and there she noticed the "ark" floating among the
bulrushes. She had it brought her, and, noticing Miriam, she caused the girl to engage her
mother, whom Miriam pointed out to her, as a nurse. Taking pity on the baby the kind-hearted
princess adopted it and brought it up as she would had it been her own, and, as the child grew,
she came to love the boy, and had him educated with care, and this education must be kept in
mind since the future of Moses as a man turned upon it. For Moses was most peculiarly a creation
of his age and of his environment; if, indeed, he may not be considered as an incarnation of
Jewish thought gradually shaped during many centuries of priestly development.

According to tradition, Moses from childhood was of great personal beauty, so much so that
passers by would turn to look at him, and this early promise was fulfilled as he grew to be
a man. Tall and dignified, with long, shaggy hair and beard, of a reddish hue tinged with gray,
he is described as "wise as beautiful." Educated by his foster-mother as a priest at Heliopolis,
he was taught the whole range of Chaldean and Assyrian literature, as well as the Egyptian,
and thus became acquainted with all the traditions of oriental magic: which, just at that period,
was in its fullest development. Consequently, Moses must have been familiar with the ancient
doctrines of Zoroaster.

Men who stood thus, and had such an education, were called Wise Men, Magi, or Magicians, and
had great influence, not so much as priests of a God, as enchanters who dealt with the supernatural
as a profession. Daniel, for example, belonged to this class. He was one of three captive Jews
whom Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, gave in charge to the master of his eunuchs, to whom
he should teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans. Daniel, very shortly, by his
natural ability, brought himself and his comrades into favor with the chief eunuch, who finally
presented them to Nebuchadnezzar, who conversed with them and found them "ten times better
than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm."

The end of it was, of course, that Nebuchadnezzar dreamed a dream which he forgot when he awoke
and he summoned "the magicians, and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans,
for to shew the king his dreams," but they could not unless he told it them. This vexed the
king, who declared that unless they should tell him his dream with the interpretation thereof,
they should be cut in pieces. So the decree went forth that all "the wise men" of Babylon should
be slain, and they sought Daniel and his fellows to slay them. Therefore, it appears that together
with its privileges and advantages the profession of magic was dangerous in those ages. Daniel,
on this occasion, according to the tradition, succeeded in revealing and interpreting the dream;
and, in return, Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel a great man, chief governor of the province of Babylon.

Precisely a similar tale is told of Joseph, who, having been sold by his brethren to Midianitish
merchantmen with camels, bearing spices and balm, journeying along the ancient caravan road
toward Egypt, was in turn sold by them to Potiphar, the captain of Pharaoh's guard.

And Joseph rose in Potiphar's service, and after many alternations of fortune was brought before
Pharaoh, as Daniel had been before Nebuchadnezzar, and because he interpreted Pharaoh's dream
acceptably, he was made "ruler over all the land of Egypt" and so ultimately became the ancestor
whom Moses most venerated and whose bones he took with him when he set out upon the exodus.

It is true also that Josephus has preserved an idle tale that Moses was given command of an
Egyptian army with which he made a successful campaign against the Ethiopians, but it is unworthy
of credit and may be neglected. His bringing up was indeed the reverse of military. So much
so that probably far the most important part of his education lay in acquiring those arts which
conduce to the deception of others, such deceptions as jugglers have always practised in snake-charming
and the like, or in gaining control of another's senses by processes akin to hypnotism;-- processes
which have been used by the priestly class and their familiars from the dawn of time. In especial
there was one miracle performed by the Magi, on which not only they, but Moses himself, appear
to have set great store, and on which Moses seemed always inclined to fall back, when hard
pressed to assert his authority. They pretended to make fire descend onto their altars by means
of magical ceremonies. [Footnote: Lenormant, Chaldean Magic, 226.] Nevertheless, amidst all
these ancient eastern civilizations, the strongest hold which the priests or sorcerers held
over, and the greatest influence which they exercised upon, others, lay in their relations
to disease, for there they were supposed to be potent. For example, in Chaldea, diseases were
held to be the work of demons, to be feared in proportion as they were powerful and malignant,
and to be restrained by incantations and exorcisms. Among these demons the one, perhaps most
dreaded, was called Namtar, the genius of the plague. Moses was, of course, thoroughly familiar
with all these branches of learning, for the relations of Egypt were then and for many centuries
had been, intimate with Mesopotamia. Whatever aspect the philosophy may have, which Moses taught
after middle life touching the theory of the religion in which he believed, Moses had from
early childhood been nurtured in these Mesopotamian beliefs and traditions, and to them--or,
at least, toward them--he always tended to revert in moments of stress. Without bearing this
fundamental premise in mind, Moses in active life can hardly be understood, for it was on this
foundation that his theories of cause and effect were based.

As M. Lenormant has justly and truly observed, go back as far as we will in Egyptian religion,
we find there, as a foundation, or first cause, the idea of a divine unity,--a single God,
who had no beginning and was to have no end of days,--the primary cause of all. [Footnote:
Chaldean Magic, 79.] It is true that this idea of unity was early obscured by confounding the
energy with its manifestations. Consequently a polytheism was engendered which embraced all
nature. Gods and demons struggled for control and in turn were struggled with. In Egypt, in
Media, in Chaldea, in Persia, there were wise men, sorcerers, and magicians who sought to put
this science into practice, and among this fellowship Moses must always rank foremost. Before,
however, entering upon the consideration of Moses, as a necromancer, as a scientist, as a statesman,
as a priest, or as a commander, we should first glance at the authorities which tell his history.

Scholars are now pretty well agreed that Moses and Aaron were men who actually lived and worked
probably about the time attributed to them by tradition. That is to say, under the reign of
Ramses II, of the Nineteenth Egyptian dynasty who reigned, as it is computed, from 1348 to
1281 B.C., and under whom the exodus occurred. Nevertheless, no very direct or conclusive evidence
having as yet been discovered touching these events among Egyptian documents, we are obliged,
in the main, to draw our information from the Hebrew record, which, for the most part, is contained
in the Pentateuch, or the first five books of the Bible.

Possibly no historical documents have ever been subjected to a severer or more minute criticism
than have these books during the last two centuries. It is safe to say that no important passage
and perhaps no paragraph has escaped the most searching and patient analysis by the acutest
and most highly trained of minds; but as yet, so far as the science of history is concerned,
the results have been disappointing. 

No doubt the first thought Obdulia, she said with some vividness:

-
Yes, sir, I've done in the arm is burning ...

And at the same time
lifted the sleeve of the dress and laid bare an ugly and painful wound
I had in the forearm.

The priest went on as a poppy, and turning his head quickly, he replied
tartly looking at the tables of the confessional:

- Well, well ...
Let you ... It seems excessive, indeed ... Henceforth refrain from
do such penance without first talking to your confessor.

III

At eight o'clock in the evening after having dinner with D. Miguel
and have seen him retire to bed in the sweet company of flintlock
pistols, P. Gil left the rectory to toward the house of his protector
Ms Eloisa Montesinos.

Rarely went to the gathering that it met at night. Neither was happy about it, nor the severe
regime of the priest's house I consented. But her protector had complained of neglect, until
he thought he was cooler with it. Fearful of being branded as ungrateful and really sorry, because
he professed tender and respectful affection for the kind lady, resolviose to go more often,
making and submit to the pastor.

The strong shower water hit his face as he set foot outside the door. Opened the umbrella,
but a few steps, the wind was blowing gale in the Field of Fainting
it again.

Unable to close it and feeling violently pushed by the hurricane, the young excuses refuge
in black, huge portal of Montesinos. Never went past it without feeling a shiver of fear and curiosity.
Lived in that gloomy palace a mysterious man who had vaguely thousand strange stories, to whom were
attributed outrageous ideas and phrases in addition to religion and its ministers. The young cleric
just knew him. D. Alvaro Montesinos had spent most of his life in Madrid. For two or three years
only he had come to settle on rocks. He lived in an almost total withdrawal, occasional walking
rarely by the sea, all alone. The remaining days I spent locked up at home, it was said, reading
or writing articles wicked. The Peñascosa clergy spoke of him with contempt spiteful, which
had come to participate Fr Gil, without knowing.

Arranged his umbrella as best he could, and as the impetus the wind had calmed down instantly
went out of the portal, but not one look of fear and hostility to the huge black door the fund, on top
of which sadly burned an oil lamp behind a window gated.

He left the field of fainting and, once in Quadrant Street (which thus called the single largest and
most populated of rocks), and the wind was not blowing so hard and was able to take advantage
umbrella and get home of Ms. Eloisa, located in the square without seriously wet. The D. purple Martín
de las Casas was also old, but remarkably renovated more girl than her brother, with all facilities
and supplies required by the needs Modern: tiles portal gate, well carved poplar staircase with banisters
of patent, elegant rooms with friezes and papers, all very neat and Painted.

- Good eyes see you, father! How expensive is sold! - Ms. Eloisa said that since her protected had
received holy orders not tuteaba.

At the same time he rose and kissed his hand with real affection. So did Mrs. Rita Obdulia, who had
recently was assiduous gathering of the house, and Mrs. Marcelina
Serafina Barrado, despite the sidelong glance he directed his chaplain
D. Joaquín.

Ms Marciala and Mrs. Filomena became the distracted talking to D. Peregrin Casanova, and saluted
the order from his seat, smiling rosy.

While greetings lasted, D. Narciso, who was leaning back to the piano, no his eyes off his
companion, eyes where they read aversion and suspicion.

Without the P. Gil is the cause or even give good account of it, there was lively rivalry between
him and D. Narciso, who had started more than half of the daughters of confession. Well God
knew he had done nothing to get it, before, on the contrary, it weighed heavily each Once
one of them came to his confessional. But what he had to do? Nothing but confess, it was his obligation.
Insist that do not vary much as a confessor was granted too much importance to the issue of person:
he was not in the spirit of the sacrament. But the chaplain was not penetrated Sarrió the intention
of his partner, and whether was not much altered her feelings. Thus compatible with the result,
and it was sad him. Before the arrival of Gil field it can be said that only among the fair sex
of Peñascosa and ruled their consciences. Other chaplains did not shadow. It was the golden
boy of the pious. None of their jokes, their steps and gestures go unnoticed: the devout who had
the good fortune to hear or witness them, were responsible for distributing it quickly among her
friends. A damning evidence every moment of lively sympathy and veneration awakening in the village:
chasubles gifts of embroidery by fingers gorgeous body, the clerical collar of satin, etc.,
etc., offering even more positive, hams, bottles of sherry cakes and chocolate. D. Narciso was
admirably covered their spiritual needs and temporary. He was a shepherd, tending his sheep
happily, leading them gently the path of virtue to paradise and shearing from time to time the
rich fleece to not entangled in a thicket.

The appearance of your new companion came to breaking on the Arcadia delicious mystique. Sheep
sudden rush of insane excitement, began to jump and prance as if listen the happy sound of a pipe.
Neither Peter nor the blandishments managed to retain a most of them.

He was painting his flock, and he had had the strength to govern a herd that large, faint now to
be alone, sensing the hostility with which I watched some of their old and beloved sheep. For
not only no longer reached home the rich gifts overseas and nationals of other times, but
with deep felt pain that was beginning to discutírsele. It was said among the pious ladies,
and this came his ears, that if it was true that word was easier for the young toilets, most
of the time "there was no substance in what he said," and he preceded him much weight, natural
reason and instruction. There were times when throwing one of his jokes spicy, linked as always
with feces, barely produced laughter among listeners, and knew that one of them after he left,
he had been rude and poorly qualified educated. Of the body because there was no talking, well
it never reached could compete with the delicate and graceful figure of his opponent. In summary,
D. Narciso felt undermined the foundation and feared every moment to come to the floor. No wonder,
then, that the look and the greeting that welcomed the young priest were less affectionate
than be expected. Not remember little or much the kind reception that San Juan Bautista, master
held dear, and God made the young disciple who was soon eclipsed.

- Do not fights, women. Do you know, by chance, if it's easy to go out at night, with fear
that D. Miguel has to thieves? - Shouted D. Martín de las Casas from the triplet table where
he played with two others, a priest and a layman.

- No, sir, not that - "the cleric said, blushing under the eyes of the entire gathering.

- Did not have D. Miguel fear of robbers? - Asked smugly sharp focus
the Mr. de las Casas.

- Yes it is - the young man replied, smiling
sweetly, sitting at the same time next her godmother .-- Their reasons
will be.

The rich are those who fear. The poor, like me, are alone.

- But what will the priest as much money as they say? - Ms Marciala
asked curiously.

- I can not tell you, lady ... I presume so, because
it addresses a lot to his estate.

Their costs are small, and instead of increasing each day is restricted. Where to go long and
leaves little choice but to not have done plenty.

- The rights parish should produce a lot, right? - Asked even more
curious the wife of the apothecary of the square.

- You understand
that in a parish as large as it should not be short.

- But D. Miguel
forgive many of them - said the lady, with a slight turning comic
in his voice.

- It's possible, ma'am.

For my part, I have not seen - answered with perfect simplicity the toilet.

D. Narciso D. Joaquin, the chaplain of Madame de Barrado, exchanged
a meaningful glance.

The chaplain was a thin young man with roses in her cheeks, a sign
of a temper sickly, living and insolent eyes, thin nose, small mouth,
a hypocritical fold and malicious.

It had been a Dona Serafina testicles stuck at home to run errands and serve at the table, soon
after being widowed.

Noting the readiness and fond of him once transferred his residence
to Lancia, gave career, sending the seminar.

In the hours left him free lessons, Joaquín continued to play his
trade as a servant.

Then he took orders made him his manager, today was his feet and hands. Do not hit the streets
but in his company, was her spiritual director and counselor time. Curious spectacle indeed the
sudden transformation of a domestic master of his own love. It was you you always called him
D. Joachim and, publicly at least, he lavished a thousand samples respect, also forcing the
servants to tax.

Ms Eloisa reiterated, asking gentle accents:

- So what is the reason for his withdrawal, rogue?

- Madam, I understand that Mr Miguel does not like much to go out
at night, but the main This is because most of the days I am tired
... As I get up at four in the morning!

... Sometimes need a little prayer ...

- You work too, father - said Marcelina, a young unmarried girl who, in the words of the people,
already was nearing forty, ugly, leathery, very skillful hands and not a little also language
.-- So many hours of confessional! ... And then the sick!

...

- Not counting the hours he spends on his knees in prayer ...-- Obdulia
said shyly.

After to drop the phrase blushed.

D. Narciso thrust a unique look, ironic and aggressive, that she could not see, because it put
an effort into not looking face to face with his former confessor.

Fr Gil made an impatient, annoyed by those accolades, and to divert the conversation of his person,
he faced one of those who played the triplet.

- Mr Director, I have seen today from the rectory with the rod out
a very fat fish.

For Admittedly, I thought a mullet, and D. Miguel a robaliza. We played a little.

- The priest has a better view than you. A robaliza era - said the
gentleman seriously questioned, without looking up the charts.

This D. Romualdo Director was an old man with a mustache and short
white whiskers, sallow color, the brow furrowed with deep wrinkles,
large eyes, severe eyelid drooping.

No never smiled.

Constantly spoke with an accent in a bad mood, as a man disenchanted with everything.

- The Mullets do not fall into the spring, Don Gil of the green tights - uttered the lord of Houses
with his usual rudeness, if not rude.

I used to call it, jokingly, to his former protected.

- Yes down just, D. Martin of the White House - he uttered a dull voice director.

The pundits laughed, which piqued somewhat D. Martin, Male, as we know, prone irritated.

- I thought so, Minister of mischief - sarcastically replied, looking
intently at his face, and putting on the table at the same time a
king of hearts.

- So you thought very wrong - the old man replied,
his eyes always on the cards .-- Also did you think that king of hearts
would happen triumphant, y. .. you see, the bug!

- That'll make you
it is a rude and bad habits acquired back in Manchester.

Here the insurance Norberto father had not done.

- No, no! I am unable ...-- the priest said, choking with laughter,
coughing up .-- No burst Peñascosa I left ... What I do is shrink
and take that point of gold from my partner.

He put forward a four.

- Hooray for the cure! - Roared D. Martin, throwing the horse and picking the trick.

- Dude, I thought D. Martin did not have the horse - sighed D. Norberto, addressing Councillor eyes
in anguish.

- What did you think it is a babieca and has been all his life - he
said with affected naturally which shone through anger.

- But the
man of God !...-- said the cleric, ready to give explanations.

Counselor interrupted with angry gesture, firmly placing the cards face down on the table.

-
Man of the devil! I say ... How do you think of running a point not being covered? ...

Armos a violent dispute that lasted a few moments. The Advisor and P. Norberto no dragged on too
long, because he, a man of good pasta, phlegmatic, he concluded to remain silent shrugging
his shoulders with resignation and while shaking his head in silent protest. Those that were on
forever with D. Advisor Martin, both of which more irascible and stubborn.

D. Martín de las Casas, retired lieutenant colonel, who had made the war in Cuba, where had received
a wound in the shoulder that prevented him from continuing in service, is believed the case for
his profession, take it all for the tremendous. Since 1873 when it became the body of Invalids
did not come out of rocks. At that time had forty two years. His wife was glad that forced retirement,
but deplored that came to within family with a cotton shoulder. Regarded as a virtue exalted,
unique to the military same energy in the field of battle that drinking coffee in the casino.
Their disputes, their bluffs in the recreation center were proverbial in Peñascosa and slapping
it used distributed at the end of them too. Since the arrival of the tremendous Lt. Col. any neighbor
for serious and respectable as it was, was safe. Many nobles and wealthy landowners of the
village which until then had been kept immaculate his cheeks, never dreamed that anyone could threatening
to them, were sealed and initialed the most neglected when the fingers
were the fierce invalid.

This was due to a slow reflux among his friends and acquaintances, which warmly received on his
return from service. The movement spawned no heat here but cold. Gradually leaving him alone,
judging their dangerous society. Was needed to mingle with little people a little more or
less and clergy, by their sacred character of his hands were free
expedited, or so it seemed at least.

In the casino He looked almost always surrounded two houses escribientillos
trade, a music teacher a construction foreman and three or four individuals
of the same size.

They listened as a oracle, and if ever in the heat of improvisation soplamocos they eventually
leave, cursing a little dignity and returned at once to the good.

Counsel was an exception. Genius that he was worse. In D. Martin had a lot of affected and professional:
that this was pure and native. But his advanced age, physical weakness and he put his ailments
to cover any brutal assault by his friend. This used to conclude the dispute with a violent
gesture of contempt. Ever came to say:

- D. Romualdo, if you were thirty years younger, he slammed into the wall.

D. Romualdo lived alone. A son who was employed in Manchester had been dead for four years. Enjoyed
a small income, sufficient to meet their needs short and had no other occupation angling or
other recreation that play ombre. Life Chief among the left for hooks and cards. The entire
morning was spent sitting on its folding chair in the dock, or on the rocks behind the church,
with a hat panama if it was sunny or an umbrella if it rained. In the afternoon, sitting at the
casino until the four that took the pole again. At night, sitting in the house of D. Martín
it and the P. Norberto.

He was a clergyman whom he could take forty years of age, but spent a lot of fifty, thick, plump,
red, admirable teeth, and protruding round eyes, wide nose, without a gray hair in the hair
or a wrinkle on his face. He spoke little and laughed a lot. Everything was funny: he lived
in perpetual spasm of joy and admiration. Held any dullness of friends as the steely joke, to
be forced to hold the belly Shaken by the flow of laughter.

And they laughed in good faith, without a hint of hypocrisy and flattery which, of course, flattered
the pride of those who were at his side.

For this reason perhaps Fr Norberto enjoyed broad sympathy in the town and it was not their
evil cyst peers. Knew him only three passions, tripe stew, the triplet and another that talk
later. When a house, which he frequented, had corns for lunch or dinner, whether they knew it
was heading the guests.

It served two or three dishes filled, unbuttoned, his forehead began to smoke and had to leave
after one hour rest on the bed, if not, was in danger of exploding like a bomb. Counselor used
to say that tripe-eating every day and played worse when sitting.

And never let go of the sentence without that good cleric writhe and suffocate with laughter.
The jokes were never old to him.

The ladies quickly away their attention from the triplets so they
started to play.

Every night there was a lot of fights like this.

- And you, D. Narciso, has not been either yesterday or the day before. What has become of you?
"Reza also at night? - said Ms Marciala, which made knitting table near the seating area; occasionally
raised his hands toward the lamp of the players, to make a point he had escaped.

- No, ma'am, I'm not much rezador. I have not the virtue of prayer.
Instead, I abstain of certain services, such as the murmur of my superiors
and colleagues - the chaplain uttered insolent accents, staring at
the ceiling involvement.

The reference went straight to the toilet,
who had spoken of the greed of the priest. So understood it, and if
I had not clearly understood, manifest it in the eyes of bystanders.
Faced with brutal aggression that ignited her face like an ember.
Laughter D. Malignant Joachim and D. Melchor concluded to disturb
him.

- Female, not bad that! Jo! Jo! I like that! Jo! Jo! Is that
OK abstention. Lots to do! You have wit, D. Narciso. Much ingenuity!
Jo! Jo! Jo!

Fr Melchor was laughing mouth full of an insolent and
rude manner, looking alternately the young Excuses D. Narciso. The
chaplain of Ms Serafina also laughed a little laugh acute, lowercase,
which appeared to quell her handkerchief to his nose. The ladies remained
serious and upset by understanding the intent poison Sarrió chaplain.
Only Ms Marciala smiling in front of him applauding.

Moses at all these three proposals remained cold as before. And with good reason, for Moses
had been educated as a priest in Egypt, and he knew that Egyptian "wise men" could do as well,
and even better, if it came to a magical competition before Pharaoh. And Moses had evidently
no relish for a contest in the presence of his countrymen as to the relative quality of his magic.

Then Moses made his last effort. Which was another way of saying, Send whom you please, but
leave me to tend Jethro's flock in Midian.

"And he shall be, ... to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God."

Then Moses, not seeming to care very much what Aaron might think about the matter, went to
Jethro, and related what had happened to him on the mountain, and asked for leave to go home
to Egypt, and see how matters stood there. And Jethro listened, and seems to have thought the
experiment worth trying, for he answered, "Go in peace."

"And the Lord said unto Moses,"--but where is not stated, probably in Midian,--"Go, return
into Egypt," which you may do safely, for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

It was after this, apparently, that Aaron travelled to meet Moses in Midian, and Moses told
Aaron what had occurred, and performed his tests, and, seemingly, convinced him; for then Moses
and Aaron went together into Egypt and called the elders of the children of Israel together,
"and did the signs in the sight of the people. And the people believed: and ... bowed their
heads and worshipped." Meanwhile God had not, as yet, revealed his name. But as presently matters
came to a crisis between Moses and Pharaoh, he did so.

"And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses, for anguish
of spirit, and for cruel bondage....

"And Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Behold the children of Israel have not hearkened
unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me?" And from this form of complaint against his countrymen
until his death Moses never ceased.

Certain modern critics have persuaded themselves to reject this whole Biblical narrative as
the product of a later age and of a maturer civilization, contending that it would be childish
to attribute the reasoning of the Pentateuch to primitive Bedouins like the patriarchs or like
the Jews who followed Moses into the desert. Setting aside at once the philological discussion
as to whether the language of the Pentateuch could have been used by Moses, and admitting for
the sake of argument that Moses did not either himself write, or dictate to another, any part
of the documents in question, it would seem that the application of a little common sense would
show pretty conclusively that Moses throughout his whole administrative life acted upon a single
scientific theory of the application of a supreme energy to the affairs of life, and upon the
belief that he had discovered what that energy was and understood how to control it.

His syllogism amounted to this:

Facts, which are admitted by all Hebrews, prove that the single dominant power in the world
is the being who revealed himself to our ancestors, and who, in particular, guided Joseph into
Egypt, protected him there, and raised him to an eminence never before or since reached by
a Jew. It can also be proved, by incontrovertible facts, that this being is a moral being,
who can be placated by obedience and by attaining to a certain moral standard in life, and
by no other means. That this standard has been disclosed to me, I can prove to you by sundry
miraculous signs. Therefore, be obedient and obey the law which I shall promulgate "that ye
may prosper in all that ye do."

Indeed, the philosophy of Moses was of the sternly practical kind, resembling that of Benjamin
Franklin. He did not promise his people, as did the Egyptians, felicity in a future life. He
confined himself to prosperity in this world. And to succeed in his end he set an attainable
standard. A standard no higher, certainly than that accepted by the Egyptians, as it is set
forth in the 125th chapter of the Book of the Dead, a standard to which the soul of any dead
man had to attain before he could be admitted into Paradise. Nor did Moses, as Dr. Budde among
others assumes, have to deal with a tribe of fierce and barbarous Bedouins, like the Amalekites,
to whom indeed the Hebrews were antagonistic and with whom they waged incessant war.

The Jews, for the most part, differed widely from such barbarians. They had become sedentary
at the time of the exodus, whatever they may have been when Abraham migrated from Babylon.
They were accustomed in Egypt to living in houses, they cultivated and cooked the cereals,
and they fed on vegetables and bread. They did not live on flesh and milk as do the Bedouins;
and, indeed, the chief difficulty Moses encountered in the exodus was the ignorance of his
followers of the habits of desert life, and their dislike of desert fare. They were forever
pining for the delights of civilization. "Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord
in the land of Egypt, when we eat by the flesh-pots, and when we did eat bread to the full!
for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger."
[Footnote: Ex. These were the wants of sedentary and of civilized folk, not of barbarous nomads
who are content with goat's flesh and milk. And so it was with their morality and their conceptions
of law. Moses was, indeed, a highly civilized and highly educated man. No one would probably
pretend that Moses represented the average Jew of the exodus, but Moses understood his audience
reasonably well, and would not have risked the success of his whole experiment by preaching
to them a doctrine which was altogether beyond their understanding. If he told them that the
favor of God could only be gained by obeying the laws he taught, it was because he thought
such an appeal would be effective with a majority of them.

Dr. Budde, who is a good example of the modern hypercritical school, takes very nearly the
opposite ground. His theory is that Moses was in search of a war god, and that he discovered
such a god, in the god of the Bedouin tribe of the Kenites whose acquaintance he first made
when dwelling with his father-in-law Jethro at Sinai. The morality of such a god he insists
coincided with the morality which Moses may have at times countenanced, but which was quite
foreign to the spirit of the decalogue.

Doubtless this is, in a degree, true. The religion of the pure Bedouin was very often crude
and shocking, not to say disgusting. But to argue thus is to ignore the fact that all Bedouins
did not, in the age of Moses, stand on the same intellectual or moral level, and it is also
to ignore the gap that separated Moses and his congregation intellectually and morally from
such Bedouins as the Amalekites.

Dr. Budde, in his Religion of Israel to the Exile, insists that the Kenite god, Jehovah, demanded
"The sacred ban by which conquered cities with all their living beings were devoted to destruction,
the slaughter of human beings at sacred spots, animal sacrifices at which the entire animal,
wholly or half raw, was devoured, without leaving a remnant, between sunset and sunrise,--these
phenomena and many others of the same kind harmonise but ill with an aspiring ethical religion."

He also goes on to say: "We are further referred to the legislation of Moses, ... comprising
civil and criminal, ceremonial and ecclesiastical, moral and social law in varying compass.
This legislation, however, cannot have come from Moses.... Such legislation can only have arisen
after Israel had lived a long time in the new home."

To take these arguments in order,--for they must be so dealt with to develop any reasonable
theory of the Mosaic philosophy,--Moses, doubtless, was a ruthless conqueror, as his dealings
with Sihon and Og sufficiently prove. [Footnote: Deut. III, 3-6.]

There is nothing extraordinary, or essentially barbarous, in this attitude of Moses. The same
theory of duty or convenience has been held in every age and in every land, by men of the ecclesiastical
temperament, at the very moment at which the extremest doctrines of charity, mercy, and love
were practised by their contemporaries, or even preached by themselves. For example:

At the beginning of the thirteenth century the two great convents of Cluny and Citeau, together,
formed the heart of monasticism, and Cluny and Citeau were two of the richest and most powerful
corporations in the world, while the south of France had become, by reason of the eastern trade,
the wealthiest and most intelligent district in Europe. It suffices to say here that, just
about this time, the people of Languedoc had made up their minds, because of the failure of
the Crusades, the cost of such magnificent establishments was not justified by their results,
and accordingly Count Raymond of Toulouse, in sympathy with his subjects, did seriously contemplate
secularization. To the abbots of these great convents, it was clear that if this movement spread
across the Rhone into Burgundy, the Church would face losses which they could not contemplate
with equanimity. At this period one Arnold was Abbot of Citeau, universally recognized as perhaps
the ablest and certainly one of the most unscrupulous men in Europe. Hence the crusade against
the Albigenses which Simon de Montfort commanded and Arnold conducted. Arnold's first exploit
was the sack of the undefended town of Beziers, where he slaughtered twenty thousand men, women,
and children, without distinction of religious belief. When asked whether the orthodox might
not at least be spared, he replied, "Kill them all; God knows his own."

This sack of Beziers occurred in 1209. Exactly contemporaneously Saint Francis of Assisi was
organizing his order whose purpose was to realize Christ's kingdom upon earth, by the renunciation
of worldly wealth and by the practice of poverty, humility, and obedience. Soon after, Arnold
was created Archbishop of Narbonne and became probably the greatest and richest prelate in
France, or in the world. This was in 1225. In 1226 the first friars settled in England. They
multiplied rapidly because of their rigorous discipline. Soon there were to be found among
them some of the most eminent men in England. Their chief house stood in London in a spot called
Stinking Lane, near the Shambles in Newgate, and there, amidst poverty, hunger, cold, and filth,
these men passed their lives in nursing horrible lepers, so loathsome that they were rejected
by all but themselves, while Arnold lived in magnificence in his palace, upon the spoil of
those whom he had immolated to his greed.

In the case of Moses the contrast between precept and practice in the race for wealth and fortune
was not nearly so violent. Moses, it is true, according to Leviticus, declared it to be the
will of the Lord that the Israelites should love their neighbors as themselves, [Footnote:
Lev. XIX, 18.] while on the other hand in Deuteronomy he insisted that obedience was the chief
end of life, and that if the Israelites were to thoroughly obey the Lord's behests, they were
to "consume all the people which the Lord thy God shall deliver thee; thine eye shall have
no pity upon them: neither" should thou serve their gods, "for the Lord thy God is a jealous
God." [Footnote: Deut. VII, 16.]  And the penalty for slackness was "lest the anger of the
Lord thy God be kindled against thee, and destroy thee from off the face of the earth." [Footnote:
Deut. VI, 15.] There is, nevertheless, this much to be said in favor of the morality of Moses
as contrasted with that of thirteenth-century orthodox Christians like Arnold; Moses led a
crusade against a foreign and hostile people, while Arnold slaughtered the Albigenses, who
were his own flock, sheep to whom he was the shepherd, communicants in his own church, and
worshippers of the God whom he served. What concerns us, however, is that the same stimulant
animated Moses and Arnold alike. The stimulant, pure and simple, of greed. On these points
Moses was as outspokenly, one may say as brutally, frank as was Arnold. With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering with beautiful
women and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so. Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her
confessor was cute. This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity to come
to talk, give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back. And confess again with D. Narciso.
And tell his friends in what situation you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there
was no doubt who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was not done in Peñascosa.
Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit
a priest, not his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that fame Priests
are very delicate and anything bankruptcy? The brain of the young did not stop spinning and
turning these ideas and the like, while his body remained motionless, dejected, staring stubbornly
at the hands of Ms Marciala, leaving no a time when his sock. He felt ill, wanted to leave but
a vague hope that he could not define the retained despite himself.

Meanwhile Fr Norberto was surprised and confused by the unusual attention
of it was subjected by Candida.

The poor man was not accustomed to being the lavish. The fair sex of her professed disdain
Peñascosa compassionate. Teníasele by a priest virtuous, but very short-sighted. His own companions,
when they talked about it, they did while the protective lips half smiling, half-mocking. For
the ladies, virtue Fr Norberto was not poetry, it lacked the charm that other priests becomes
contagious, was a pedestrian under that did not translate into delicate and sublime concepts as
in P. Narciso, P. Gil et al. So rare was the girl who confessed to him not least that felt
like it had the taste in conversation or envelop in clouds of incense, Candida as he did at that
time. His own inclination to rescue the lost sluts, much they respected, was not sympathetic
to the ladies. Truth that he spent admirably Without this sympathy and did not detract from fat each
day and spend my life laughing. Flattery he was pouring his ear with his new daughter insinuating
voice of confession, instead of pleasing, troubled him, annoyed him visibly. It was one of the few times
he could seriously seen lounging. It was grinding the seat, changing position every minute, and
Knuckles crackled hands in a formidable, coughed, blushed, and occasionally let out of the throat with
a slight snort alarmed protested his modesty. Finally, as requested strongly by the sweet prospect
of sitting, took a break from the maiden to rise and say a little twisting hips by way of greeting:

-
With your permission, Miss.

As distressing situation that left his face and dilated blood reappeared in it the universal benevolent
smile which was his principal ornament.

Arrival the group where they were Counsellor, D. Martin, Osuna and
another military gentleman was greeted Lancia with joy.

- I present
- said D. Stranger to his friend Martin, lowering his voice and glancing
suspiciously around to make sure his wife could not hear him - the
father Norbert, a priest who will be able report all the huts of the
people, if you want to know any.

- Oh, oh! D. Martin, by God!

-
Dare you to say they do not know!

- Well, yes ... some know ... Unfortunately,
I need to enter them once ...

- This man is dedicated to the lost
youth - continued D. Martin, addressing his companion, smiling in
amazement.

- Jesus!

Consider, D. Martin, who this gentleman does not know me ...

- But that knows you talk.

Ms Eloisa, by far, cast glances of terror to her husband, noting the confusion of D. Norberto and
the laughter of others.

- Well - continued Mr. de las Casas, becoming cautious and conciliatory,
- I will not tell, D. Norbert, you go with bad idea to these houses
of iniquity, but what always argue is that it is you provide a great
service: you're making a killing.

- How, how? - Scared the cleric
asked.

- Very simple, helping to raise the price of the commodity.

Recall the example Carmen the zapatillera ...

This was a girl whom
Fr Norberto had managed to get a house of prostitution and lead to
a convent.

After some time he went out and returned to the bad life.

D. became Norberto to persuade her to repent, and again she came and gave asylum to vice.

- And what does that matter? ...

- I'll explain, Father, I will explain ... Meet you ... When you catechized Carmen, I do not deny that
the merchandise was quite undervalued and ...

- I do not know!

What things have you, D. Martin! - Said the cleric embarrassed.

- I know, father, I know.

Well, after he spent a year there and a bit fatter in the convent
and became surrounded by an aura of honesty, the price rose significantly.

You take it back when I was a bit estropeadilla and demand had diminished to a point raised
fears for the bucolic, and now it comes again chubby and sanctified
is quoted again as in their heyday.

- Jesus!

Jesus! Go all for God - said the priest covered their ears, but not angry .-- you will be very
bad, D. Martin.

Ms Eloisa, it warned that what was happening, finally rose from his
chair and came toward them, asking in a bad mood:

- Do not play today
ombre?

- Here we go, here we go - her husband said, stifling laughter
that flowed from the body, such as others.

They sat Adviser, D. Norbert and he was at table, and soon block out
all worldly sounds fascinating under the influence of the sword, the
bad and the rough.

Shortly after Councillor gnashed his teeth and mustache pulled cruelly, being twice followed with
three clubs, his personal enemy. Many years ago that had declared a war to death. Every time I
came to the hands, twitched Chief, swore silently like a trooper. The three of clubs, malicious
and cunning as any other card, enjoyed apparently irritated him, and whenever he could sneak nicely
in the pile he distributed.

Not only in the party, but in the whole village was known this antipathy. Some, with certain precautions,
of course, because D. Romualdo easy shooting I teased her.

On one occasion, angling behind the church, pulled in hook a card that turned out to be the three
of clubs.

He had no doubt that he had thrown there on purpose, but said nothing
so as not to laugh.

Osuna meantime had gone to rub a little against Ms Eloisa. Among all the ladies attending that
gathering there were only two fat, Ms Teodora and Ms Eloisa. Was also good meat Ms Rita, but it
was soft, yellow. Other "pure Scotland," as he called the skinny, referring to cod. So there
was no end to our contempt Hunchback professed that degenerate society and exhausted from adipose
tissue. Just going by there to find his daughter, or materially did not know where to shelter. Ms
Eloisa looked sympathetic (as I watched all the good lady) the passion that the monster seemed
feel to it. When you are too close, gently parted without extinction so his kindly smile.
Ms Teodora Instead you had a great fear, real fear. The same approach was Osuna, who was already
suffocating caste buxom, restless, color it was and another was coming. But such was the shame
he felt, had not declared to his own father's dirty insinuations misshapen. What is the difference
between this indecent and serene, majestic and romantic D. Juan Casanova! D. Ni Peregrin could
compare with, to be the latter, by way of the mature girl, a subject
much more voluptuous and land.

D. Pilgrims had arrived, as usual, in the past. And if the gathering is not warned most strident
of nasal snorts, as infinitely more solemn blink and the serious way to put a leg over the other
and lean back to something important, important, had to communicate was that he did not want
to notice. He waited patiently, like all men sure of success, to have a break, and when he arrived,
he uttered with his shrill voice, piercing, turning to the lady of the house:

- Do not you know whom I have just seen entering the house of his brother, accompanied by excused?

A
Obdulia he jumped so hard the heart that thought hit the ground. Other, including Ms Eloisa,
looked up curiously.

- Who was that?

- Your sister Joaquina - cried more that said former acting governor of Tarragona, as announced
Judgement Day.

Deep stupor throughout the party.

- My sister! - Exclaimed.

- His own sister - confirmed D. Peregrin with trumpeting horrid.

- There can be - said Ms Eloisa.

- There can be - said her husband,
suspending the game.

- There can be - repeated Ms Serafina Barrado.

The ex-governor of Tarragona let out through the nose some deafening
snorts as an engine that displaces the excess steam, and said:

-
Do you think, gentlemen, I have no eyes in his head?

This momentous question, accompanied by the appropriate frown, produced
enough impression among the switches.

- Well you could have been
mistaken - said the invalid.

- It's so easy! - Said Ms Eloisa.

-
I've seen as you see them now, three steps away.

I came to talk to the clerk to the issue of the anniversary of my
father, when the hole street Quadrant I to P. Gil with a lady who
seemed a stranger.

I wanted to know who he was, and I paused a little near the lantern,
hiding behind a doorway.

It was Joaquin, no doubt. I waited a bit and followed with his eyes until he entered the house
of Montesinos.

- But you know well? - Asked P. Narciso.

- The same as you.

- Peregrin, please note that you have not done more than a visit to Madrid, and the night, as
I've said - she said timidly D. Juan.

The ex-governor threw his brother a look of unutterable contempt.

- John, do not put the leg.

- Peregrin I do not know why ...

- John! ...

- Peregrin! ...

- Do not the goal!

Not the goals! A lady that I saw after visiting another portion times in the street, and I welcomed.
Therefore, I feel the sad need to show yourself what you just said is an impertinence. When assured
that I knew this lady, is because the know. I never talk to smoke with straw. If I were a man
light and baseless could not occupy the positions I have occupied. Sírvate of government.

- Now I remember - Candida said, - today I have seen alighting from the coach to a blond lady with
a very elegant dress.

D. Peregrin shrugged with a gesture of disdain, as if to say: 'What
you come in my support to counter the absurdities of this fool?

"

That data and concluded that gesture to annihilate D. John, whose face expressed dejection. But
Ms Theodora, with her large calm eyes, he plunged a look so warm that the factions knight, contracted
with grief, went gradually dilating, and a placid concluded by a melancholy smile on his lips
disappear. The head of D. Peregrin, however, was instantly crossed by a portion of wrinkles.
The undeniable superiority was about his brother, what he used? The better showing in front of the
fresh ham, the more it was inclined to favor.

Right the trial judge Tarragona when he said that the woman was a tissue of contradictions.

Obdulia
felt an intense joy, infinite, we fell in streams within the soul. His body, enervated, unable
to move, suddenly became the lightness of a bird. I wanted to go promptly in this room and ride
the air and sing their joy. Anyone could see the change in her. The obstinate silence followed
by a loquacious lying extreme a chat, pointless, interspersed with laughter that was happy strange,
venting the emotion that seized, stretching his cramped nerves. Neither knew what he was saying, or
Ms Philomena, who was talking, he learned not attentive to see the face smart Fr Narciso and enjoy
the brilliance of his jokes. Soon throat felt dry and unusual warmth in her cheeks. The Lancia
Knight, who was there remarked, he hastened to inform Osuna, that his daughter's eyes were black
and shiny and to sit very well embodied rosettes that had taken heat in the face.

The news had been feeling at all. There were few who knew where his wife Montesinos, although
everyone knew the incidents of marital drama that he had withdrawn the Peñascosa entailed estate.
But what was just curious strangers, the good Dona Eloisa offered, of course, with the appearance
of deep and profound emotion. Intended course to find out what happened at his brother, later sought
to be her husband, wanted send a servant. A whole opposed D. Martin, seeing things more coldly,
comprised any step of these at the moment was inopportune. The conversation was extremely animated,
to the point that ombre suspended the game and took part in it. Comments that were made infinite. Thousand
scenarios were forged on the case. Some felt that the wife sorry, came to apologize to her husband, others
who made the trip just to claim of food, others that his intent was to formalize sue for divorce,
others had called her husband, unable to banish from his heart the love that the professed (Most
of the female element was inclined to this assumption), other than P. Gil, motu own, had written
to Ms Joaquin and had prepared the scene, so that D. Álvaro forgive her, others who had persuaded
him to that calling Peñascosa. Missing or not who assumed that D. Alvaro and his wife had long
corresponded, and it was she who refused to come to visit him until the present time.

- Anyway, what is beyond doubt is that the P. Gil has a very major intervention in the case
because he owns the glory of Reconciliation - said gravely D. Narciso.

-
If so - said Director.

- The will - said the chaplain .-- The will,
and here D. Maybe Martin will soon taste see a nephew who will distract
you with their antics and their thanks.

D. Martin, who his hero's soul did not detract from having a great
desire to inherit the brother, whose health was feeble, wrinkled his
nose and muttered rudely:

- I do not care.

- I do not think I can
not believe it, D. Martin.

You can not fail to cheer the noble Montesinos home is not extinct, that anyone honorably carry
this name ... Then has to look good that big house with a few guys
who rejoice with laughter and shouts.

The work of Father Gil is the most meritorious that has taken place, and why has made very good.

Obdulia
stabbed an angry look, but tempered suddenly said with a smile innocent

- You have nothing to envy, Don Narciso. Who does not remember the town's many marriages through
it are now well-matched? Without going any further, everyone knows that D. Feliciano wanted
very little to Ms. Nieves ... and as you see today are like two chicks.

This D. Feliciano was the husband who was said in secret, had broken
a leg P. Narciso throwing down the stairs.

Bystanders looked uneasily. There was an awkward silence. Counselor dropped the laughter, and exclaimed,
putting a letter on the table, as referring to the game:

- Come on, you return the other!

Everyone understood that the father was going Narciso, and this increased
concern.

The cleric blushed and whispered:

- Thank you.

We all have an obligation ...

- You go beyond the obligation, father ... Often what you do is pure
devotion - said Osuna's daughter with charming simplicity.

- Yoho
- she cried Director, staring at cards.

- What is it, D. Romualdo?
- Asked laughing D. Norberto .-- Have you played the three of clubs?

-
Yes, sir, but I take comfort that there are clubs for everyone.

-
Well, I have none - replied the priest candid.

- Another will receive!

-
We do all we can, but there is no doubt that some are stronger than
others.

Fr Gil is a saint, an apostle of the early days of the Church. None of us has the presumption of competing
with him in zeal or wisdom - expressed D. Joaquin, coming in aid
of his friend, with a chuckle poison that would jump a stone.

- In
wisdom you may have reason, D. Joaquin - Obdulia strongly replied,
- but zeal, I think you are wrong.

You're too modest ... There is flatter, but in the case of jealousy,
I think you're as jealous as the first, right, Dona Serafina?

A grunt escaped all strange point at the time of the throat of Director,
to which was immediately followed by a violent fit of coughing that
left him breathless by some seconds.

D. Joaquin also felt some itching in the throat, forcing him to cough
back head.

Ms Serafina did not answer the question, because I was distracted talking to Ms Eloisa.

The conversation veered, as if tacitly all agreed that this was dangerous. Soon after he ceased
to be general, and returned to form the usual cliques

.


Whether these particular words of Leviticus, or any similar phrases, were ever used by Moses
is immaterial. No one can doubt that, in substance, they contained the gist of his moral doctrine
and that he enforced the moral duty which they convey to the best of his power. And here the
burden lay, which crushed this man, from which he never thenceforward could, even for an instant,
free himself, and which Saint Paul avers to be the heaviest burden man can bear. Moses, to
fulfil what he conceived to be his destiny and which at least certainly was his ambition, was
condemned to lead a life of deceit and to utter no word during his long subsequent march which
was not positively or inferentially a lie. And the bitterest of his trials must have been the
agony of anxiety in which he must have lived lest some error in judgment on his part, some
slackness in measuring the exact credulity of his audience, should cause his exposure and lead
to his being cast out of the camp as an impostor and hunted to death as a false prophet: a
fate which more than once nearly overtook him. Indeed, as he aged and his nerves lost their
elasticity under the tension, he became obsessed with the fixed idea that God had renounced
him and that some horror would overtake him should he attempt to cross the Jordan and enter
the "Promised Land." Defeated at Hormah, he dared not face another such check and, therefore,
dawdled away his time in the wilderness until further dawdling became impossible. Then followed
his mental collapse which is told in Deuteronomy, together with his suicide on Mount Nebo.
And thus he died because he could not gratify at once his lust for power and his instinct to
live an honest man.

CHAPTER II.

The interval during which Moses led the exodus falls, naturally, into three parts of unequal
length. The first consists of the months which elapsed between the departure from Ramses and
the arrival at Sinai. The second comprises the halt at Sinai, while the third contains the
story of the rest of his life, ending with Mount Nebo.

His trials began forthwith. The march was hardly a week old before the column was in quasi-revolt
because he had known so little of the country, that he had led the caravan three days through
a waterless wilderness where they feared to perish from thirst. And matters grew steadily worse.
At Rephidim, "And the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore is this that thou
hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?" Not
impossibly Moses may still, at this stage of his experiences, have believed in himself, in
the God he pretended to serve, and in his mission. At least he made a feint of so doing. Indeed,
he had to. Not to have done so would have caused his instant downfall. He always had to do
so, in every emergency of his life. A few days later he was at his wits' end. He cried unto
the Lord, "What shall I do unto this people? They be almost ready to stone me." In short, long
before the congregation reached Sinai, and indeed before Moses had fought his first battle
with Amalek, the people had come to disbelieve in Moses and also to question whether there
was such a god as he pretended.

"And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because of the chiding of the children
of Israel, and because they tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us, or not?"

"Then came Amalek, and fought with Israel in Rephidim." [Footnote: Exodus xvii, 7, 8.]

Under such conditions it was vital to Moses to show resolution and courage; but it was here
that Moses, on the contrary, flinched; as he usually did flinch when it came to war, for Moses
was no soldier.

And Moses actually had the assurance to do as he proposed, nor did he even have the endurance
to stand. He made Aaron and Hur fetch a stone on which he should sit and then hold up his hands
for him, pretending the while that when Moses held up his hands the Hebrews prevailed and when
he lowered them Amalek prevailed. Notwithstanding, Joshua won a victory. But it may readily
be believed that this performance of his functions as a captain, did little to strengthen the
credit of Moses among the fighting men. Nor evidently was Moses satisfied with the figure that
he cut, nor was he confident that Joshua approved of him, for the Lord directed Moses to make
excuses, promising to do better the next time, by assuring Joshua that "I will utterly put
out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven." This was the best apology Moses could make
for his weakness. However, the time had now come when Moses was to realize his plan of meeting
Jethro.

It is from all this very plain that Jethro had a controlling influence over Moses, and was
the proximate cause of much that followed. And when Jethro saw how Moses proceeded he remonstrated,
"Why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even?"

And Moses replied: "Because the people come unto me to enquire of God."

And Jethro protested, saying "The thing thou doest is not good. Thou wilt surely wear away,
both thou and this people that is with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art
not able to perform it thyself alone.

"Hearken, ... I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee; Be thou for the people
to God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God."

Then it was that Moses perceived that he must have a divinely promulgated code. Accordingly,
Moses made his preparations for a great dramatic effect, and it is hard to see how he could
have made them better. For, whatever failings he may have had in his other capacities as a
leader, he understood his part as a magician.

He told the people to be ready on the third day, for on the third day the Lord would come down
in the sight of all upon Mount Sinai.

It must be admitted that Moses either had wonderful luck, or that he had wonderful judgment
in weather, for, as it happened in the passage of the Red Sea, so it happened here. At the
Red Sea he was aided by a gale of wind which coincided with a low tide and made the passage
practicable, and at Sinai he had a thunder-storm. Moses had undoubtedly sent some thoroughly
trustworthy person, probably Joshua, up the mountain to blow a ram's horn and to light a bonfire,
and the effect seems to have been excellent. And the first thing that Moses did on behalf of
the Lord was to "charge the people, lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze, and many
of them perish."

And Moses replied to God's enquiry, "The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai: for thou chargedst
us, saying, Set bounds about the mount.

"And the Lord said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt come up, thou, and Aaron with
thee: but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the Lord, lest he
break forth upon them.

"So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them."

Whether the decalogue, as we know it, was a code of law actually delivered upon Sinai, which
German critics very much dispute as being inconsistent with the stage of civilization at which
the Israelites had arrived, but which is altogether kindred to the Babylonish law with which
Moses was familiar, is immaterial for the present purpose. What is essential is that beside
the decalogue itself there is a considerable body of law chiefly concerned with the position
of servants or slaves, the difference between assaults or torts committed with or without malice,
theft, trespass, and the regulation of the lex talionis. There are beside a variety of other
matters touched upon all of which may be found in the 21st, 22d, and 23d chapters of Exodus.

Up to this point in his show Moses had behaved with discretion and had obtained a complete
success. The next day he went on to demand an acceptance of his code, which he prepared to
submit in form. But as a preliminary he made ready to take Aaron and his two sons, together
with seventy elders of the congregation up the mountain, to be especially impressed with a
sacrifice and a feast which he had it in his mind to organize. In the first place, "Moses ...
rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar, ... and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen
unto the Lord....

"And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said,
All that the Lord hath said will we do, and be obedient."

Had Moses been content to end his ceremony here and to return to the camp with his book of
the covenant duly accepted as law, all might have been well. But success seems to have intoxicated
him, and he conceived an undue contempt for the intelligence of his audience, being, apparently,
convinced that there were no limits to their credulity, and that he could do with them as he
pleased.

It was not enough for him that he should have them accept an ordinary book admittedly written
by himself. There was nothing overpoweringly impressive in that. What he wanted was a stone
tablet on which his code should be engraved, as was the famous code of Hammurabi, which he
probably knew well, and this engraving must putatively be done by God himself, to give it the
proper solemnity.

To have such a code as this engraved either by himself or by any workman he could take into
the mountain with him, would be a work of time and would entail his absence from the camp,
and this was a very serious risk. But he was over-confident and determined to run it, rather
than be baulked of his purpose,

"And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua; and Moses went up into the mount of God.

"And he said unto the elders, Tarry you here for us, until we come again unto you: and, behold,
Aaron and Hur are with you: and if any man have matters to do, let him come unto them. And
Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into the mount: and Moses was in the
mount forty days and forty nights."

But Moses had made the capital mistake of undervaluing the intelligence of his audience. They
had, doubtless, been impressed when Moses, as a showman, had presented his spectacle, for Moses
had a commanding presence and he had chosen a wonderful locality for his performance. But once
he was gone the effect of what he had done evaporated and they began to value the exhibition
for what it really was. As men of common sense, said they to one another, why should we linger
here, if Moses has played this trick upon us? Why not go back to Egypt, where at least we can
get something to eat? So they decided to bribe Aaron, who was venal and would do anything for
money.

When Aaron heard this proposition he showed no objection to accept, provided the people made
it worth his while to risk the wrath of Moses; so he answered forthwith, "Break off the golden
earrings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring
them unto me."

These were the ornaments of which the departing Israelites had spoiled the Egyptians and they
must have been of very considerable value. At all events, Aaron took them and melted them and
made them into the image of a calf, such as he had been used to see in Egypt. The calf was
probably made of wood and laminated with gold. Sir G. Wilkinson thinks that the calf was made
to represent Mnevis, with whose worship the Israelites had been familiar in Egypt. Then Aaron
proclaimed a feast for the next day in honor of this calf and said, "To-morrow is a feast to
the Lord," and they said, "These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land
of Egypt."

It was not very long before Moses became suspicious that all was not right in the camp, and
he prepared to go down, taking the two tables of testimony in his hands. These stone tablets
were covered with writing on both sides, which must have taken a long time to engrave considering
that Moses was on a bare mountainside with probably nobody to help but Joshua. Of course all
that made this weary expedition worth the doing was that, as the Bible says, "the tables were"
to pass for "the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God."

There are few acts in all recorded history, including the awful massacres of the Albigenses
by Simon de Montfort and the Abbot Arnold, more indefensible than this wholesale murder by
Moses of several thousand people who had trusted him, and whom he had entrusted to the care
of his own brother, who participated in their crime, supposing that they had committed any
crime saving the crime of tiring of his dictatorship.

The effect of this massacre was to put Moses, for the rest of his life, in the hands of the
Levites with Aaron at their head, for only by having a body of men stained with his own crimes
and devoted to his fortunes could Moses thenceforward hope to carry his adventure to a good
end. Otherwise he faced certain and ignominious failure. His preliminary task, therefore, was
to devise for the Levites a reward which would content them. His first step in this direction
was to go back to the mountain and seek a new inspiration and a revelation more suited to the
existing conditions than the revelation conveyed before the golden calf incident.

Up to this time there is nothing in Jewish history to show that the priesthood was developing
into a privileged and hereditary caste. With the consecration of Aaron as high priest the process
began. Moses spent another six weeks in seclusion on the mount. And as soon as he returned
to the camp he proclaimed how the people should build and furnish a sanctuary in which the
priesthood should perform its functions. These directions were very elaborate and detailed,
and part of the furnishings of the sanctuary consisted in the splendid and costly garments
for Aaron and his sons "for glory and for beauty."

"Thus did Moses: according to all that the Lord commanded him, so did he."

It followed automatically that, with the creation of a great vested interest centred in an
hereditary caste of priests, the pecuniary burden on the people was correspondingly increased
and that thenceforward Moses became nothing but the representative of that vested interest:
as reactionary and selfish as all such representatives must be. How selfish and how reactionary
may readily be estimated by glancing at Numbers XVIII, where God's directions are given to
Aaron touching what he was to claim for himself, and what the Levites were to take as their
wages for service. It was indeed liberal compensation. A good deal more than much of the congregation
thought such services worth.

In the first place, Aaron and the Levites with him for their service "of the tabernacle" were
to have "all the tenth in Israel for an inheritance." But this was a small part of their compensation.

"In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eat it; it shall be holy unto thee.

"And this is thine.... All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine, and of the wheat,
the first fruits of them which they shall offer unto the Lord, them have I given thee; ...
every one that is clean in thine house shall eat of it.

Also, on the taking of a census, such as occurred at Sinai, Aaron received a most formidable
perquisite.

The Levites were not to be numbered; but there was to be a complicated system of redemption
at the rate of "five shekels by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary."

"And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and above them that were redeemed
by the Levites: Of the first-born of the children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three
hundred and three score and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; And Moses gave
the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to his sons."

Assuming the shekel of those days to have weighed two hundred and twenty- four grains of silver,
its value in our currency would have been about fifty-five cents, but its purchasing power,
twelve hundred years before Christ, would have been, at the very most moderate estimate, at
least ten for one, which would have amounted to between six and seven thousand dollars in hard
cash for no service whatever, which, considering that the Israelites were a wandering nomadic
horde in the wilderness, was, it must be admitted, a pretty heavy charge for the pleasure of
observing the performances of Aaron and his sons, in their gorgeous garments.

Also, under any sedentary administration it followed that the high priest must become the most
considerable personage in the community, as well as one of the richest. And thus as payment
for the loyalty to himself of the Levites during the massacre of the golden calf, Moses created
a theocratic aristocracy headed by Aaron and his sons, and comprising the whole tribe of Levi,
whose advancement in fortune could not fail to create discontent. It did so: a discontent which
culminated very shortly after in the rebellion of Korah, which brought on a condition of things
at Kadesh which contributed to make the position of Moses intolerable.

Moses was one of those administrators who were particularly reprobated by Saint Paul; Men who
"do evil," as in the slaughter of the feasters who set up the golden calf, "that good may come,"
and "whose damnation," therefore, "is just." [Footnote: Romans III, 8.]

And Moses wrought thus through ambition, because, though personally disinterested, he could
not endure having his will thwarted. Aaron had nearly the converse of such a temperament. Aaron
appears to have had few or no convictions; it mattered little to him whether he worshipped
Jehovah on Sinai or the golden calf at the foot of Sinai, provided he were paid at his own
price. And he took care to exact a liberal price. Also the inference to be drawn from the way
in which Moses behaved to him is that Moses understood what manner of man he was.

Jethro stood higher in the estimation of Moses, and Moses did his best to keep Jethro with
him, but, apparently, Jethro had watched Moses closely and was not satisfied with his conduct
of the exodus. On the eve of departure from Sinai, just as the Israelites were breaking camp,
Moses sought out Jethro and said to him; "We are journeying unto the place of which the Lord
said, I will give it you; come thou with us, and we will do thee good; for the Lord has spoken
good concerning Israel.

"And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred."

Not discouraged, Moses kept on urging: "Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou knowest
how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to us instead of eyes.

"And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness the Lord shall do
unto us, the same will we do unto thee." It has been inferred from a passage in Judges, [Footnote:
Judges I, 16.] that Moses induced Jethro to reconsider his refusal and that he did accompany
the congregation in its march to Kadesh, but, on the whole, the text of the Bible fails to
bear out such inference, for there is no subsequent mention of Jethro in the books which treat
directly of the trials of the journey, although there would seem to have been abundant occasion
for Moses to have called upon Jethro for aid had Jethro been present. In his apparent absence
the march began, under the leadership of the Lord and Moses, very much missing Jethro.

They departed from the mount: "And the cloud of the Lord was upon them by day," when they left
the camp "to search out a resting-place." Certainly, on this occasion, the Lord selected a
poor spot for the purpose, quite different from such an one as Jethro would have been expected
to have pointed out; for the children of Israel began complaining mightily, so much so that
it displeased the Lord who sent fire into the uttermost parts of the camp, where it consumed them.

"And the people cried unto Moses, and when Moses prayed unto the Lord, the fire was quenched."

This suggestion of a divine fire under the control of Moses opens an interesting speculation.

The Magi, who were the priests of the Median religion, greatly developed the practices of incantation
and sorcery. It is mentioned as having been effective here at Taberah, and it was the supposed
weapon employed to suppress Korah's rebellion. Moses was indeed a powerful enchanter. His relations
with all the priestcraft of central Asia were intimate, and if the Magi had secrets which were
likely to be of use to him in maintaining his position among the Jews, the inference is that
he would certainly have used them to the utmost; as he did the brazen serpent, the ram's horns
at Sinai, and the like. But in spite of all his miracles Moses found his task too heavy, and
he frankly confessed that he wished himself dead.

"Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families... and the anger of the Lord was
kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased. ... that thou layest the burden of all this people
upon me?

"Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry
them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou
swarest unto their fathers?

"Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me saying, Give
us flesh that we may eat.

Leaving aside for the moment all our childish preventions, and considering this evidence in
the cold light of history, it becomes tolerably evident that Moses had now reached the turning-point
in his career, the point whither he had inexorably tended since the day on which he bid good-bye
to Jethro to visit Egypt and attempt to gain control of the exodus, and the point to which
all optimists must come who resolve to base a religious or a political movement on the manipulation
of the supernatural. However pure and disinterested the motives of such persons may be at the
outset, and however thoroughly they may believe in themselves and in their mission, sooner
or later, to compass their purpose, they must resort to deception and thus become impostors
who flourish on the credulity of their dupes.

Moses, from the nature of the case, had to make such demands on the credulity of his followers
that even those who were bound to him by the strongest ties of affection and self-interest
were alienated, and those without such commanding motives to submit to his claim to exact from
them absolute obedience, revolted, and demanded that he should be deposed. The first serious
trouble with which Moses had to contend came to a head at Hazeroth, the second station after
leaving Sinai. The supposed spot is still used as a watering-place. There Miriam and Aaron
attacked Moses because they were jealous of his wife, whom they decried as an "Ethiopian." In the rusty key crude had settled her white hand. Wanted to open, then held, afraid to erase
the traces of his hand. But his arm is extended again, and the door groaned on its hinges. Her
trembling increased. There, in the chapel he saw before him, kneeling, head bowed, hands together,
turned toward the altar, covered with a dress the color of fire ...

Candle plant fell to his knees, breaking to mourn.

And amid their cries distinctly heard the voice would say, "Sorry ..."

The next day I called the judge. It was the first time was before
the judge from the day he, after triumphing over their arguments,
he had said he believed suicide.

The young man was extreme confusion, not knowing what they could want from him yet.

- I needed first and foremost - Ferpierre said - to acknowledge my error and tell you he was
right. It was providential that you insisted on the prosecution, in spite of the evidence, because
without the insistence of you without the confidence that saw him animated, I would probably Hand made
further investigations which have led me to discover the truth. No doubt this time you already
know what happened, but I wanted to personally confirm that your
friend has been murdered.

The Natzichet has confessed his crime, and Principe, was silent in
the hope to save her, has confirmed his confession.

Roberto candle plant remained silent and confused.

- Are you happy now?

The young man replied.

- Have you provided a service to justice. Without you, the murder would have gone unpunished, or worse,
an innocent man would have paid the fault of others. There was a guilty and instinct I noticed that
you do not deceive: the only difference is that the charges you against the Prince have proved
unfounded.

Ferpierre again paused a moment to give candle plant time to say something, and then as he continued
silent, he continued:

- Prince could not desire the death of the Countess when he came to
love with a passionate love and shy at once, compelling, a rebel like
him to abandon his revolutionary propaganda, to renounce their past,
their political faith, their accomplices.

And that was because I knew you estimated and obtained the affection
of the Countess, that affection before he disdained.

So reasons the human heart ... Then he saw his partner lost, not
only for the match but even for herself, because she loved him and
suffered at the thought that there was another, to be confident that
love is risen.

It was in search of the rival, to let him enforce it, and they had
she ended a stormy explanation to the crime.

Everything he confessed.

There was a pause of the judge, which opposed candle plant still silent.

-
Are you happy? - Asked the judge.

- Why do you ask?

And the two men stared.

- Should you be happy, I think, had avenged his friend's memory, confusing
the inmate and obtaining the triumph of truth and justice.

Both turned to look in silence.

- And you are not happy ?...-- candle
plant said finally.

In the judge's question had been a sort of incitement, almost a provocation to say entirely his
secret thoughts, as if their secret thought was the same judge.

- I have no passion to meet - he answered .-- One Love guides me: the love of justice ...

- If you have done justice ...

- Do you doubt?

- I do not doubt ... play

- Are you saying then that I should doubt? So why ... You have reported a crime: the crime is
proved. You have not been able to tell which of two possible perpetrators of the crime were truly
guilty, given that both were capable of committing a crime: the guilty are accused itself!
... Would you perhaps say that the confession alone is not enough?

I know! But That is when it is not proven. A fool can declare an offender, but can not give reasons
for its action, or explain your circumstances. But here Is not it explained everything? "The
declaration confirms the other not? ... Or do you deny faith to the test?

- Yes - broke candle plant, whose doubts had grown to express precisely Weird being strengthened
by the judge's questions .-- Yes, you deny faith, as you are also
the denied, because that statement is not disinterested, since he
had that look in your own freedom, because only a madman can not declare
an offender who has not committed, but who wants to sacrifice ...

-
So, you argue?

...

- I argue - added the young man quickly, as if to not take the time
to think about what he said, and was beat to talk to himself - argue
that this woman is sacrificed for love sectarian zeal, that the murderer
takes advantage of his sacrifice to ensure impunity.

I say the murderer is he who can not be other than him ...

Yes, candle plant had to say that. The silent voice of forgiveness,
that voice had never spoken.

What had been a dream, a hallucination.

The truth was otherwise: the beloved lay underground, his blood stains
had not been cleared yet, the requested blood revenge, and he should
get it.

- Why do not you said before?

Why hesitated at first?

- Why did not yet know, because I had not thought enough, because you do not believe in crime
and they identified all my strength to deny suicide.

- "So not only would have killed this man, but to let his infamy would condemn an innocent?

-
Are you surprised? Is not it natural that this man is full of joy?

- That idea is horrible! I understand what blind hate you, but I'm not blind. This Man is not as evil
as you believe: in life there are acts of courage, and his attitude in the presence the body
and in the early days of the prison has not been a joy.

- In the early days ... What about others?

Upon hearing that question, the judge thought for a moment before answering.

It was true.

When the nihilistic confessed, he had given immediate credit to his confession; but doubt was
beginning to assault him again. If the girl was sacrificed, what
value should agree to his confession and confirmation of it by Prince?

... However, he had again questioned one and another, separately and together, and both had
remained firm in their statements.

In the confrontation they had found some contradictions: while assuring Natzichet that at the
height of his explanation with the countess, hearing the voice of Prince troubled I called,
had fired the shot, afraid to show him and he had not been submitted another opportunity to get
rid of his rival, Prince said, however, have gone when he heard the
shooting from afar.

Again placed facing each other, had Natzichet corrected, stating
that he thought he heard her voice, but certainly in his excitement
he was mistaken.

Other small details Ferpierre had affirmed the suspicion that, as
in previous interrogation, in that the girl also somewhat took the
initiative of the explanation the drama, and urged the Prince to follow,
but, nevertheless, was determined to send to judges to the public
debate had just shed light on the mystery.

Before that, however, had wanted to call candle plant to see if he too doubted, to discuss
with him his new suspicion.

- In the early days were oppressed by the pain - he replied, after examining all mentally that again,
- but then saw that the prison made him suffer.

- Do you see? - Said candle plant .-- At first realized the error
of his crime, and later saw that their freedom was safe.

The media has been too easy!

So also thought Ferpierre.

One man, who suddenly happened several drives, which was not totally
incapable of doing good, but that was due more advances rapidly to
evil, had been, without doubt, next to confess, but the available
had changed his mind at any moment, and then yearns for freedom, had
no qualms about holding on to the raft.

- If he is so outrageous,
does it mean that the hero has a heart Natzichet?

- What prevents
you admit it?

Far from denying it, the judge had expressly recognized by the ardor of their faith, the tenacity
of her feelings, she was capable of heroism.

- But how to surprise?

His explanation of the crime was complete!

He had two reasons for commit: love and fanaticism.

- Does one and one should not advise that could save the man she loved and the fellow?

This was also true. If the Prince had died at the Countess, she was trying to save, much love for
humanity, for love of the game.

- Well, but what about the test?

- Ah! Test! We must find it yet!

- Well then, while we found that test, so why do you insist on his suspicion, as I return to
my first opinion.

- Why?

- Because! I come to believe that the Countess had been killed!

- After they admit the existence of the crime?

- And how do you support? You do not know how, under what circumstances has pleaded guilty Natzichet!
He confessed when I told her that the Prince had confessed!

I was lost and wanted save!

- And that does not show you in a lighthearted manner that he, only he is the murderer?

- But he has admitted nothing!

It was I who said that, as of desperation!

- And do not you see that telling the truth! - Argued candle plant .-- If I had known this
woman Zakunine was innocent, he would have laughed to hear you! I would not have believed it! Would
have discovered trick! How could he believe that his friend had ever confessed a sin committed by
him? If this woman believed what you said, this means that subconsciously you said the truth.
And he wanted to save him, because he has been really lost!

Ferpierre not answer.

I was astonished at not having done so obvious observation that among
many others.

And I felt full weight of the clearest observation, and saw further that if it was for the truth
he had been misled by a false path.

- Hypothesis or presumption as all the others! - Suddenly exclaimed,
eager to deny, Amid the confusion, the importance attached inside
the words of the young.

All we do is to move from one scenario to another, if the Countess has not been killed, has been
murdered, and if you have not been killed, death has come into their own hands! The crime
is the work of the nihilist, if not committed by Zakunine, if the nihilist is innocent, is
Zakunine the offender! The passion of you not a test!

Until you bring me a valid proof of their passionate statements, we want to be very severe with
defendants, we can not do otherwise than acquit them both, for lack of evidence!

And almost abruptly, he said he could retire.

When he was alone gave the order to not let anyone else. The gravity of his thoughts at that time
and the annoyance felt against himself, not allowed to deal with another matter.

The observation he had made candle plant was very just: How to deny
its value?

If so many questions had conceived and himself on the confession of Natzichet, why not admit it?
Was the most significant of all. So, then, the passion of the young serving of something, whereas
cold blood he was obliged to show it was no use, since the young man who see more clearly?

Certainly, without the artifice he had employed with the nihilistic, the Prince and she would
continued to deny, hide behind the likelihood of suicide. It was also clear that of the two,
the most careful of salvation had been common since the early days, Natzichet. In all interviews
had struggled visibly to push Prince to defense.

There were acknowledged to be his mistress and he was required to confirm this statement, eager
to prevent the discovery of the resurrection of his love for the Countess, resurrection could
be suspected that the cause of the crime were jealousy.

Then, believing Zakunine jealous and had pleaded guilty, had invented their own involvement
between the two actors the drama. Is the silence and sadness Zakunine could not be, was not, remorse
the culprit? Whatever it was, the Prince had shown during the first days perhaps in so much pain
force, indifferent to their fate.

All this made Ferpierre think they really had made a mistake when using your scheme against the young
man should have said rather that the Natzichet Prince pleaded guilty. And he should have said
when Zakunine was still under the weight of pain, then probably would
not have tolerated someone else suffer for it, and have confessed
the truth.

The truth! ... If this was the real truth, how do you know? Since I wanted Natzichet save the Prince,
would not have done, after it had actually confessed guilty, as he did when he heard the judge's
cunning story?

And then, accusing a and another, the confession would have been higher! Or who knows if the
confrontation would have been fruitful!

But the confrontations were useless. Determined to take advantage of the generosity of the
young Zakunine recognized her guilty, and since she insisted in his confession, how belie?

Ferpierre thought to recall the Natzichet and say: 'Do you believe you have saved? Far from
that, I lost you! Why did you confess?

Why I told him myself had confessed he had killed the Countess? Well, that's not true, he has not
confessed to anything! I have told a lie. But now I see I thought this lie is true, and yourself,
without meaning, or rather, wanting the opposite, I have tried it. If there been lying, you would
have laughed to hear it. And instead, you trembled for him, and has tried to save him, but
in vain ... "

But Ferpierre stopped abruptly, anticipating that she would not have gone unanswered: "I laughed
at the lie, because instead of laughing had to cause me grief. Believing that you I told the
truth, accusing Zakunine thought for saving me, and as he is innocent and I I'm the culprit,
I laughed, but trembled and told you the truth ... "

What answer that? And how to test it lying? ... What if I lied? If he was really guilty? If
their conduct was not of a hero saving, but a confessed offender?

What was the reason not to believe really guilty? Could have been so ably built and described with
so many colors a false outcome of the drama, which had known tell a heap of lies in a voice
so distraught, his face so sincere?

Then again Ferpierre measure likely to deepen the assumptions, to rebuild the task of all those days,
stopping and in one, and in another scenario, recognizing once again the intractable difficulties
of the case.

Should he resign positively to any further investigation?

Should we actually lose hoping to get irrefutable proof? And how long complete the vain and
file? "Rejecting the allegation, stating that the Countess had been killed, and that the accused
is Natzichet only by the fear of seeing sentenced the prince, although he was as innocent
as he, and For this reason, versions of one and the other had not agreed? ... Or back to the
hypotheses, and excluded the most unlikely, that both were guilty, that Natzichet had helped her
lover to execute the murder to the theft by phone, and treated after to save him, accusing?

Each of these conclusions repugnant to the magistrate, but it needed
to be decided by some, and thought to make one last attempt about
two Russians, when, despite had given orders, he heard knocking on
the door.

The usher, apologizing for the offense, gave a statement of the attorney general, two underlined
words in a corner of the envelope indicated that communication was urgent.

Ferpierre idly broke the envelope, because nothing seemed urgent if not leave a situation as ambiguous.
Inside were two roles: a telegram and a note from the attorney general. This he wrote:

"I transmit to you immediately at the office that just received from the Swiss Consul in Edinburgh.
Now we finally know precisely something about the mystery of Ouchy. "

And hand that shook anxiety, Ferpierre opened another sheet, which
read:

"Sister Anne lives in Stonehaven Brighton, County of Kincardine,
Scotland.

Already been agreed as necessary with the British judiciary to get a statement. "

And public curiosity had been aroused, the more anxious than ever, knowing that the instruction
was not closed yet as stated first, that the judge mistrusted confession
Alejandra Natzichet, and that everything was to be bound by new doubts
in the moment the mystery seemed to open.

The discussions raged, passionate and useless, among those who believed the sincerity of the
nihilists, those who saw in his conduct a new test Prince of guilt and with greater confidence
returning to the suicide, inquisitorial methods accusing the magistrate of an innocent confession
extracted.

But others recognized that justice was in the presence of one of those cases doubtful whose solution
must not despair until some unforeseen circumstance comes clarify them, and that most often
remain unresolved forever.
The news that had finally found Ana, took a curious anticipation
to the extent of fever. His statement, the last letter addressed to
him by the Countess, a few hours before his death, he would explain
everything.

It was not general, however, this trust, and the same
Ferpierre, after the first move of amazement and pleasure to receive
communication of the telegram, he feared not even get out of doubt.
If the dead had confessed that he would kill himself, if he sent his
sister last goodbye, this, on receiving the letter, to read that ad,
would not come due, or at least answer, or seek other news, you know
if Florence had put running their fatal purpose? And since all the
world's newspapers had talked the catastrophe, for the prosecution,
arrests and summary, was not for religious a duty of conscience to
send the letter to Justice? This all had received, therefore The letter
did not announce the suicide.

Nature was thus seen as uniquely worsened
the condition of the accused. If missing in the letter an explicit
reference to the desperate purpose of its author, had to seem less
likely than ever that an hour later, it had been killed, but at what
which of the two defendants should be liable for the crime? Could
one hope that Countess had charted the fear aroused in her by the
threatening attitude one or the other? Was not it more likely that
the letter was not explicit in any sense, and that while confirming
the anguish felt by the unfortunate, it announced it intended to die?
In this case, the ambiguity would survive.

A top story, given by
the British newspapers that announced the discovery of the whereabouts
Sister Ana Brighton, destroyed the judge's questions. The nun, said
those sheets was attack of severe paralysis, had lost the use of body
and speech.

A telegram from London to the Journal de Geneve said
the next day, the disease dating a month, and that the stroke, according
to the statement of the premium of Sister Anne his only relative,
had occurred when reading a dismal news.

And when a week later, he
Ferpierre with confirmation of these rumors the record formed by the
Scottish judge, was that once again he was wrong in their forecasts.
Sister Anne was not able to answer the Condesa or enlighten justice
because reading the letter from his former favorite pupil had fallen
as dead.

This letter, found by his side and attached to the report
along with others that did not matter, said:

"Sister Anne, you pray
for me. Pray you very much, with all the fervor of his good soul,
because I have need of much forgiveness.

"This is my last letter
you receive. If one day you know what I did, remember you name ever
since the first time I enjoyed his touch wanted me: remember you called
me his daughter and as such has loved me, for you will always be his
daughter indulgent.

"God reads in my heart. You mean I can not do
storm destroys me. Blessed you do not know the error! Why speak of
that which I fight? Think only this, that I have sinned, I want to
run away from other faults. I am Guests to a condition such that everything
is my fault and error. Whosoever cometh
anything near unto the tabernacle of the Lord shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?"

As I have already pointed out, Moses was a very great theurgist, as many saints and prophets
have been. When in the actual presence of others he evidently had the power of creating a belief
in himself which approached the miraculous, so far as disease was concerned. And he presumed
on this power and took correspondingly great risks. The case of the brazen serpent is an example.
The story is--and there is no reason to doubt its substantial truth--that the Hebrews were
attacked by venomous serpents probably in the neighborhood of Mount Hor, where Aaron died,
and thereupon Moses set up a large brazen serpent on a pole, and declared that whoever would
look upon the serpent should live. Also, apparently, it did produce an effect upon those who
believed: which, of course, is not an unprecedented phenomenon among faith healers. But what
is interesting in this historical anecdote is not that Moses performed certain faith cures
by the suggestion of a serpent, but that the Israelites themselves, when out of the presence
of Moses, recognized that he had perpetrated on them a vulgar fraud. For example, King Hezekiah
destroyed this relic, which had been preserved in the Temple, calling it "Nehushtan," "a brazen
thing," as an expression of his contempt. And what is more remarkable still is that although
Hezekiah reigned four or five centuries after the exodus, yet science had made no such advance
in the interval as to justify this contempt. Hezekiah seems to have been every whit as credulous
as were the pilgrims who looked on the brazen serpent and were healed. Hezekiah "was sick unto
death, and Isaiah came to see him, and told him to set his house in order; for thou shalt die,
and not live.... And Hezekiah wept sore."

Then, like Moses, Isaiah had another revelation in which he was directed to return to Hezekiah,
and tell him that he was to live fifteen years longer. And Isaiah told the attendants to take
"a lump of figs." "And they took it and laid it on the boil, and he recovered."

Afterward Hezekiah asked of Isaiah how he was to know that the Lord would keep his word and
give him fifteen additional years of life. Isaiah told him that the shadow should go back ten
degrees on the dial. [Footnote: 2 Kings xx, 11.] And yet this man Hezekiah, who could believe
in this marvellous cure of Isaiah, repudiated with scorn the brazen serpent as an insult to
credulity. The contrast between Moses, who hesitated not to take all risks in matters of disease
with which he felt himself competent to cope, and his timidity and hesitation in matters of
war, is astounding. But it is a common phenomenon with the worker of miracles and indicates
the limit of faith at which the saint or prophet has always betrayed the impostor. For example:
Saint Bernard, when he preached in 1146 the Second Crusade, made miraculous cures by the thousand,
so much so that there was danger of being killed in the crowds which pressed upon him. And
yet this same saint, when chosen by the crusaders four years later, in 1150, to lead them because
of his power to constrain victory by the intervention of God, wrote, after the crusaders' defeat,
in terror to the pope to protect him, because he was unfit to take such responsibility.

But even with this reservation Moses could not gain the complete confidence of the congregation
and the insecurity of his position finally broke him down.

At this same place of Kadesh, Miriam died, "and the people chode with Moses because there was
no water for the congregation." [Footnote: Numbers xx, 8.] Moses thereupon withdrew and, as
usual, received a revelation. And the Lord directed him to take his rod, "and speak ye unto
the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water."

And Moses gathered the congregation and said unto them, "Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch
you water out of this rock?"

"And he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly."

Moses had become an old man, and he felt himself unequal to the burden he had assumed. He recognized
that his theory of cause and effect had broken down, and that the "Lord" whom at the outset
he had firmly believed to be an actual and efficient power to be dominated by him, either could
not or would not support him in emergency. In short, he had learned that he was an adventurer
who must trust to himself. Hence, after Hormah he was a changed man. Nothing could induce him
to lead the Jews across the Jordan to attack the peoples on the west bank, and though the congregation
made a couple of campaigns against Sihon and Og, whose ruthlessness has always been a stain
on Moses, the probability is that Moses did not meddle much with the active command. Had he
done so, the author of Deuteronomy would have given the story in more detail and Moses more
credit. All that is attributed to Moses is a division of the conquests made together with Joshua,
and a fruitless prayer to the Lord that he might be permitted to cross the Jordan.

Meanwhile life was ending for him. His elder sister Miriam died at Kadesh, and Aaron died somewhat
later at Mount Hor, which is supposed to lie about as far to the east of Kadesh as Hormah is
to the west, but there are circumstances about the death of Aaron which point to Moses as having
had more to do with it than of having been a mere passive spectator thereof.

The whole congregation is represented as having "journeyed from Kadesh and come unto Mount
Hor ... by the coast of the land of Edom," and there the "Lord" spoke unto Moses and Aaron,
and explained that Aaron was to be "gathered unto his people, ... because ye rebelled ... at
the water of Meribah." [Footnote: Numbers xx, 22-28.]

Now it is incredible that all this happened as straightforwardly as the chronicle would have
us believe. Aaron was an old man and probably failing, but his death was not imminent. On the
contrary, he had strength to climb Mount Hor with Moses, without aid, and there is no hint
that he suffered from any ailment likely to end his life suddenly. Moses took care that he
and Eleazar should be alone with Aaron so that there should be no witness as to what occurred,
and Moses alone knew what was expected.

Moses had time to take off the priestly garments, which were the insignia of office and to
put them on Eleazar, and then, when all was ready, Aaron simply ceased to breathe at the precise
moment when it was convenient for Moses to have him die, for the policy of Moses evidently
demanded that Aaron should live no longer. Under the conditions of the march Moses was evidently
preparing for his own death, and for a complete change in the administration of affairs. Appreciating
that his leadership had broken down and that the system he had created was collapsing, he had
dawdled as long on the east side of the Jordan as the patience of the congregation would permit.
An advance had become inevitable, but Moses recognized his own inability to lead it. The command
had to be delegated to a younger man and that man was Joshua. Eleazar, on the other hand, was
the only available candidate for the high priesthood, and Moses took the opportunity of making
the investiture on Mount Hor. So Aaron passed away, a sacrifice to the optimism of Moses. Next
came the turn of Moses himself. The whole story is told in Deuteronomy. Within, probably, something
less than a year after Aaron's death the "Lord" made a like communication to Moses.

"And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain of Nebo, ... And the Lord showed
him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan. To strengthen the memory used to copy the poems he liked more: Patri verses
of Aleardi, Manzoni, Shelley, Byron, and that day, the pope reciting a poem by Victor Hugo,
copied from a newspaper, not the well-remembered and went to get
his book. In other words, he killed himself.

Such is the story of Moses, a fragment of history interesting enough in itself, but especially
material to us not only because of the development of the thought dealt with in the following
volumes, but of the inferences which, at the present time, it permits us to draw touching our
own immediate future.

Moses was the first great optimist of whom any record remains, and one of the greatest. He
was the prototype of all those who have followed. He was a visionary. All optimists must be
visionaries. Moses based the social system which he tried to organize, not on observed facts,
but on a priori theories evolved out of his own mind, and he met with the failure that all
men of that cast of mind must meet with when he sought to realize his visions. His theory was
that the universe about him was the expression of an infinite mind which operated according
to law. That this mind, or consciousness, was intelligent and capable of communicating with
man. That it did, in fact, so communicate through him, as a medium, and that other men had
only to receive humbly and obey implicitly his revelations to arrive at a condition nearly
approaching, if not absolutely reaching, perfection, while they should enjoy happiness and
prosperity in the land in which they should be permitted, by an infinite and supernatural power
and wisdom, to dwell. All this is not alien to the attitude of scientific optimists at the
present day, who anticipate progressive perfection.

Let us consider, for a moment, whither these a priori theories led, when put in practice upon
human beings, including himself. And, in the first place, it will probably be conceded that
no optimist could have, or ever hope to have, a fairer opportunity to try his experiment than
had Moses on that plastic Hebrew community which he undertook to lead through Arabia. Also
it must be admitted that Moses, as an expounder of a moral code, achieved success. The moral
principles which he laid down have been accepted as sound from that day to this, and are still
written up in our churches, as a standard for men and women, however slackly they may be observed.
But when we come to mark the methods by which Moses obtained acceptance of his code by his
contemporaries, and, above all, sought to constrain obedience to himself and to it, we find
the prospect unalluring. To begin with, Moses had only begun the exodus when he learned from
his practical father-in-law that the system he employed was fantastic and certain to fail:
his notion being that he should sit and judge causes himself, as the mouthpiece of the infinite,
and that therefore each judgment he gave would demand a separate miracle or imposture. This
could not be contemplated. Therefore Moses was constrained to impose his code in writing, once
for all, by one gigantic fraud which he must perpetrate himself. And no longer knew what it could see, or worse, afraid to know too. Florence had
been death! No trial had been afraid of God! I had not thought in the salvation of his soul he
did not believe in their future life, because everything had been killed ends in death.

"So there is nothing, nothing ?...»

The question of the dead remained unanswered, unheard.

By sole virtue of sight of his beloved candle plant had looked, I
had heard, including the soul of the world: mysterious voices had
told him memorabilia, all living, throbbing and glistened.

But, then again silence and darkness to gather around him. The with previously evident or hidden
meaning remained mute.

So deep and sincere was his conversion, which is sometimes felt under electric of the ancient
faith, but then again the darkness around him thicker. And in the alternative of course, was
silent again with terror and despair, his alter ego, the man Time I thought I had buried past and
into himself. As before having met the Countess, his thinking was dark, confused, lost. The miraculous
flowering had sprouted from every crevice of your soul withered and
crumbled.

At other times, his heart, be closed to all pleasure in their own greed, but once they had received
the seed he was embittered by rancor infinity.

The young man decided to go. He saw other lands, other men, hoping to leave his pain over the ways
of the world, but nothing was enough to calm him down. In Nice, in front of the tomb his sister,
wept hot tears that far from extinguishing the fire revived. Lake had become: a mortal dread
came over him at the thought of seeing again the only places where
I could tell he really had lived.

Feared drowned with grief to see Ouchy beaches, hills of Lausanne, the town Cyclamens, the forest
of Comte, the humble chapels, the panorama of Lake Geneva veiled by clouds and smiling, sunlight.

Finally,
one day went. Found these places as they had left. The passivity of the Nature eternal hurt
him as an insult: if at least something had been destroyed in the
land, if only I had seen around him traces of devastation similar
to which he felt inside.

Secular forests, perennial waters, ravenous beasts graves, remained immutable. The young man
was acknowledging each point along the way, every detail of perspective. His desperate certainty
that no power could have never perform the miracle to give back what
was lost and turned around but his eyes, and sharpened ear, as if
an apparition, a voice suddenly could evoke the lost asset.

And one afternoon from a window in his room watching Dôle summits
behind down which the sun rays, shuddered when he heard a voice behind
him spoke.

Was it a hallucination? Is not daydreaming?

Alejo Zakunine Prince was in his presence.

- Roberto candle plant - said the voice - can not you recognize me?

A kind of shiver shook the nerves, believed to be seeing a ghost.

What he wanted with this man? Why would fetch?

- Do you know who I am? But I was not expecting you! I come to you because I have something say.

He
spoke with his head bowed, humbly.

Seen from above, from the spacious front end to the tip of the beard,
the face was all furrowed with deep wrinkles.

Hair, very rare, were white with temples.

His whole person was printed signs a rapid decline.

Candle plant looked at him as if fascinated, unable to answer a single word, to see clearly
in the tumult of feelings that raged in his soul.

- I have to tell you one thing. Ferpierre want to give it to the judge, but I thought it best was
first to address you ...

And after a pause he added:

- Listen, candle plant, Florence d'Arda not killed. I murdered.

The young man ran a hand across his forehead, eyes. Again, more so than in the first instant
was unsure of being awake.

- Do not believe me, you? Yet, you were so close to the truth!

I know you the asserted against everything and everyone, and very
nearly got to prove it.

True many circumstances, especially, were, against you. Sister's letter Ana, seemed to have
the last word on the fate of the Countess. What cheated justice was that when I killed was indeed
determined to be death. I will say you how I killed her ...

Candle plant trembled as if shaken by fever.

- I will refer you to my shame: this is the beginning of the punishment. I never knew what
worth.

Never, while he lived, I realized the beauty of her soul. No beauty was understandable to
me: the world and life seemed devoid of that quality. I had within me a Hell, nothing could
extinguish the flame which devoured me.

Everything I touched was reduced to ashes. She loved me for compassion: the instinct, need, lust
of slaughter gave me. And although I did not understand, for a moment I was blinded by her
light. I could not bear the light, and looked away. And I teased her and offended.

He paused a moment, staring before him as if he were blind, and then continued:

- Listen you. When he has said everything, you will understand my words deserve faith. In the
first time I said I was next. Nature and life had to go provided me with a feeling passing
another with fulmineo violence. Those who know what I have done in the world may sometimes
think that perhaps the voice guided me the right. But I do not was
aware.

If within me judging my actions and those of others, all came down a mechanism, a game of blind
drives and fatal. I could not, therefore, believe the change had come over me by virtue. I only
made fun of it, too I laughed at myself ...

Should tell you which was, day by day, hour by hour, my awful work,
how to constant, tireless preaching of divine love and goodness opposed
contempt, insult, betrayal.

But you know all this. And then, then ...

Everything you suggested to his hatred towards me was not enough: what I did is incredible. Sometimes
when words poison and corrosive desecrated, vilified, destroyed their faith, when he showed
that nothing exists outside of evil, that the only remedies are iron,
fire, death, when urged to leave me, to betray, to lose, was operated
inside me a backlash, and tears came to my eyes.

But I hid my tears.

When you met her, I realized that she began to love him, my heart was dilated to joy. View your
feelings wavered decanted eternity; provide that would fall as all
fall, to say it: - You see?

Where are your moral laws? You also do as others, what you please! - was something that filled
me with joy ...

Meanwhile, I gave myself completely, had prompted the action to the fainthearted to my country
and others. The last attempt seemed destined to prosper and savored
success.

Everything was carefully prepared, had prompted the action to the fainthearted the wavering,
to the fearful, and delivered almost all that remained of my property without thinking encounter
difficulties in later.

My duty was to get me also in action, and I had to leave for that purpose, but I was obliged to stay
to prepare a new action in the case of a setback.

And one day I learned that my brothers were dead, hanging from the gallows that fell on roads
leading to the exile, under the rule of the thugs, and I knew that women, the children went to
the gallows, that many innocents suffered in my place that fear reigned over all the people
of my race ...

That day I found myself in the presence of such ruin, with the fear of having the wrong road,
alone and almost poor. Then suddenly arose in my heart something like a necessity, as a forward,
like a burning thirst for relief, then I almost reach out and find support me, almost prostrated
me to hear a word of comfort ...

The consolation being that could exist, would have had nothing else to do to go after her, to
open my heart. Might have been still long. Or maybe not: it was too late ...

Too late! Do you know what these words mean? ... Me a boost of pride stopped. Would I have to beg?
And yet, I realized that nothing in this crisis My life could have been heal as the love of
a creature like this.

I went back to his side, but nothing I said.

My attitude was to demonstrate, however, what happened within me. Too late! ... We suffer and
accept suffering, we can despair and live in despair, but at the thought that happiness would
have been for us; that fortune has come to our side to get it that
we only had to extend hand, to say a word, and we've taken her hand,
and uttered - too late! - the word at the idea the heart stopped beating
...

And it was not mine: it was you, and when I acquired this certainty,
I started to laugh again and mock.

I ran it, but I had to return to his side, even when I showed repentant and converted, I weighed
the subject, far from it could not live. Thus passed the recent months, alternating with brief
escapes my returns. A Zurich going to talk about it another unhappy, Alejandra. Alejandra Natzichet
is dead ...

Candle plant was stunned. No, not dreaming, but the reality was all the dream characters. The man
who spoke in his presence seemed to him as proud revolutionary pale images of a nightmare look like
living people. Dead, the Natzichet? How, why he died? Until the time and light are unnatural:
the yellow twilight oddly lit room, the things the Prince's emaciated
face.

- I trusted my torment Alejandra, Alejandra and loved me, without
me even noticing!

The Life has so dear: our souls, that these four creatures have been found to suffer unspeakable
pain, and none knew what the other suffering, or always know too late! Alejandra I professed
brotherly affection: the solitude in which he was sunk, her integrity, which made her able
to withstand and overcome the difficulties of life, I inclined to
protect her, to hold her like a sister, as a daughter, but she wanted
me with a more ardent affection!

And even if I had realized his love, what could have made it happy?

Only she could trust with my passion for the other! ...

Alejandra tried to cure me call of duty to serve the cause: I wanted
to hear, but vain.

The idea of ​​winning back the love that before disdained, to seize and running my whole life.
After being overlooked and attributed to the love an inestimable
price.

It was fair! ...

None of this is said to Florence: the time had come to see, I spent days shaking discover and
mine was no longer in the soul, had already handed over to you. To not believe in this horrible
thing, I say, "Think so elevated, it never will!"

And an inner voice answered: "Now do you believe in that moral high ground that before you laugh?"
Yes, before I laughed. And still did not believe it!

My confidence that I would betray not based on both the esteem in
which he had his character, as unable to believe it was all over between
us irretrievably.

I saw that my back and my repentance produced a mortal anxiety, and I flattered the hope to recover
...

Being at his side and unable to hold his hand! Remember the past and the despair of living another
After one of his hours! ... As much as happened to me, and nothing could say! I pride and
still contained another reason less petty. I was already in poverty, she was rich: speaking
of my love, could not be a lie suggested by the calculation?

...

One day I spoke. The said

- I've lost, I wanted to lose, I feel that my guilt is irreparable.

But if you knew what happens inside me! I ask you please not leave me this time around collapses
around me.

Later you will do what you want ...

That same day, the day the storm
had spoken to you too.

Narrowed between our two passions, he resolved to die.

The answer he gave me was:

- Never leave him because I'm his wife, but you remember that our
love is dead.

His tone was cold, her eyes meet mine avoided.

When I realized that you also had spoken, I thought it was not sincere,
I thought I was hiding something.

But the fear was that had decided to flee, did not believe that had
the decision to die: not even know!

...

I spent quite a night. She also spent awake.

A hundred times a thousand, I wanted to go look, but his door was
closed me.

Alejandra morning came for me, calling me with intuition of a disaster.

As I promised, but first I wanted a last look at Florence.

Hearing me into his room hurriedly hid something. I saw it was the gun.

At this point he was squeezed between our two passions, he wanted
to die to free ... I realized that I had no right to speak, introducing
me to his room, which was given leave to your destination, freedom,
death, but could not.

The idea that among two people who had been on each other did not
exist, nothing, nothing that I was worse than a stranger to her, she
found no place in my mind.

And the secret voice told me: "Before, you thought that love was
fleeting encounter of two whims, before you laugh ties indissoluble
... "

I could not admit that he belonged to another, even if it were only
in thought.

I, who had betrayed her, could not accept being betrayed my time. My pride was unlimited,
would not tolerate someone were worth more than me.

And understand that you would have known make her happy, pride, love,
jealousy, all passions, all the instincts of my race, my nature revolted
threatening.

- You promised me yesterday - I said with bitter emphasis
- let me not because you're my wife, and now want to kill you ...

She
did not deny it.

- Let me die - was his answer, - it will be better
for everyone.

In his voice there was something I did not know: his love for you,
the bitterness of having to abandon happiness that was promised to
you.

- "So you can no longer tolerate my sight?

So much you cringe?

The said these words, and many, many others.

She replied only:.

- Whose fault is it?

- Listen you: this was the first complaint that I was going after so many months of pain.

- Well - the "I replied, - I will disappear, will depart today, in
a moment and never see me again.

You want to die, though?

- Yes - I said.

I was afraid to understand, but, however, asked

- Why?

His words, nothing I said I did not already know.

- Because if I live I will be yours.

His, for you, otherwise ...!

A flare up to my eyes and forehead.

- That's not possible, will not happen! ...

She shook her head.

- Do not say no! - Insisted .-- Do not say no! ... I know you do not love me you hate me, that
defy me but do not tell me you love another, because ... because
...

- I love him - he said.

Then I begged, I cried. She repeated:

- I love him. Do not lie. I do not pretend to know.

I love him, and because this love is forbidden me, I die.

Then I fell down laughing, derided:

- The person who wants to die does not say! ... Well performing your role! ...

I still see his eyes in amazement.

- Are not you think?

Do not believe me when I fired the only person I will cry honestly? ...

- How he cried ?...--.

A Sister Ana was who had written, but no outrage expressed my suspicion, tone of irony to express
it.

Merely corrected:

- Sister Anne

I always said I facetiously:

- What about the health
of the soul?

At these words he hid his face in his hands.

I know I took them suddenly, and tried draw it into my chest.

-
No, not die, you live for me, me ...

She jumped up and leaned back:

-
Do not you touch me!

I felt that my great love crashed into implacable hatred.

- Well!

Is caused horror? - The said .-- And you love him!

And though it actually would you kill, would not, because he fears
the trial of his God.

I want you free from that penalty! ...

And before I even had the time to suspect my intention, I seized the
weapon, had hidden in several books.

- Now do not kill you, will
not face the wrath of God, and you may also run for new strokes.

Since then no longer recognized.

He looked around him, as if she were prey to a terrified, as if he thought lost, like become engaged
in a whirlwind voracious and absorbing.

Then she looked: her eyes were lit by a glow of joy, a grin.

- Ah! Do you? ... How you think I want to die? ... How have you believe ...? Take that gun!
It is death that awaits me, but life and pleasure ... Go you: leave
me alone: ​​he is coming now!

...

I also then looked around me, puzzled: my hand shaking armed. And as in my eyes had a question,
she realized:

- It's going to come: I am yours!

...

I climbed the red flare again, more furious, eyes and forehead.

-
Shut up you! - The screamed.

- No, I will shut up!

I can not! ... I love him, I'm yours!

- Shut up! - The computer again.

- No, I will shut up! I love you, and you will hate and despise you! You have made me so ill,
I have the right to retaliate at last! No one can condemn! ...

- Shut !...-- privacy for the third time.

- No, I can not shut up! Although I condemn, what do I care? My whole being needs to breathe
happiness that finally feels saturated. I want to scream at all, all I want to do I see the happiness
that fills the soul ...

- You're crazy! - I cried.

- Yes, I'm yours!

No, that was not possible. If it were true, if I'd believe it because I too had gone mad.

- Not true! Do not believe it! - I cried.

She replied, astonished, laughing:

- Do not you think? How do you believe it? ... Listen: if it were not true, what I would have liked
die? You've found me with the gun in his hand, I have already written
a letter last farewell; I would write my will, then I would have written
it.

Do you think I would have liked, might have to leave that way?

Without the remorse of guilt, would have thought in death? Had it not been my downfall, would
have continued living as now! Wanted to die, because he believed
they have sinned, but now no, no, no! ...

- You have done that?

-
I have done and do it again. I love him, is mine forever. Want to
know how long? Want to know how?

- Shut up! Do not tease me!

- No,
do not provoke. What I care about you? Who are you? What are you doing
here? Who has given you the right to come here? Go, leave me! He waits
for me, I repeat ... Do you want me so scared? ... Ah, ah ...

My
eyes had to be frightening, and she laughed and insisted!

- Do not
be afraid! What can you do to me?

I burst out:

- Kill!

She opened
her arms, looked up, introduced the chest.

- Kill me! I'll keep him
until the grave!

- Shut up or I'll kill you!

- To the grave! There
is not one of my thoughts, not a beat of my heart, not a movement
of my soul, not a fiber of my flesh, that is not yours ...

I raised
the gun. The eyes flashed, his voice sang:

- In life, even beyond
death, it just ...

The fire broke ...

Roberto candle plant had trembled
in the tale, of pain, horror, compassion, remorse impotent, hate bad
content. Upon hearing the shots came forward, and lifting fist shouted

-
Murderer!

The Prince held his gaze and said:

- Paste you.

So the
two stood face to face for a while neither could have then appreciate.
Candle plant again dropping the arm, and a hollow voice, tremulous,
he repeated:

- Murderer!

- I have come that you meet justice. What
you do will be fair. But listen to me still an instant. When I saw
her fall, when I saw the blood flow from his horrible wound, a roar
escaped from my chest. She was still alive. He lived to tell me his
last words. You hear them:

- He lied to die ... I could not ... Thanks
... Sorry ...

Those were his last words. I wanted to die with her.
He was holding the gun, and I went against myself, but someone pushed
me in that moment his arm as with pliers. Alejandra was before me:

-
You must live! You live! You save! Let me do! ...

I do not understand.

Alejandra
placed the gun near the body, was studying how to put it, he drew
a capsule.

- Will have been killed, as he said: we all believe ...

And
voices approaching, rumors of steps:

- Listen. If suspect, let me
answer me in any case confirms my answers. Think on duty! Think about
the cause! Think of me, I love you, I love you for me, I know make
you happy! ...

I do not understand. I ran to call for help, hoping
to still be alive. Why Why hide the truth? Say it was my first impulse.
If not I immediately said it was because still did not understand:
I could not hear the questions I did, answered them mechanically as
dreams. But then, when you threw me face the charge, I rebelled. Still
was that my condition. My thoughts, my feelings, blindly obeying the
kind of sudden reactions. Charged with you, I defended myself. I said
all he could say against me, I recognized it was me who pushed her
to death, but denied the extreme act. Several times during the interrogation
was to confess, but hearing the name you, to see the harshness of
the judge, I contained. The need to tear, dying, to atone for my fault
that I overlooked at first, I went to the anxiety of the discussion:
imprisoned like a wild beast, and I had no other commitment than to
break my chains, running open field again be master of myself. And
without understanding, confirmed the statements Alejandra, and when
she was accused, when he finally realized when I saw that was lost
for my sake, then, naturally, I accepted the sacrifice ... Both were
released, and then, at the time that I was free, which lie succeeded,
I wanted to say truth. Still I was silent for some time, because within
me, in the long night of my mind, the dawn of a new day was already
included. Alejandra believed to watch over me because we were together,
because I spoke. I could not see, not heard: a soul, silent and invisible,
ruled and my life ...

He paused, looking up at the sky. The sky was
calm, yellow clouds were gone, colors pink and green, pure, illuminating
the west.

The Prince continued:

- The bitterness, hatred, envy,
concuspicencia all the misery that had formed my life, I finally came
under the dim light. If relics could give protection against oppression,
disease, famine, and death, then relics must be obtained, and, if the cross and the tomb were
the most effective relics, then the cross and the tomb must be conquered at any cost. In the
north of Europe especially, misery was so acute that the people gladly left their homes upon
the slenderest promise of betterment, even following a vagrant like Peter the Hermit, who was
neither soldier nor priest. There is a passage in William of Tyre which has been often quoted
to explain a frenzy which is otherwise inexplicable, and in the old English of Caxton the words
still glow with the same agony which makes lurid the supplication of the litany,--"From battle
and murder, and from sudden death, Good Lord deliver us":

"Of charyte men spack not, debates, discordes, and warres were nyhe oueral, in suche wyse,
that it seemed, that thende of the world was nyghe, by the signes that our lord sayth in the
gospell, ffor pestylences and famynes were grete on therthe, ferdfulness of heuen, tremblyng
of therthe in many places, and many other thinges there were that ought to fere the hertes
of men....

"The prynces and the barons brente and destroyed the contrees of theyr neyghbours, yf ony man
had saved ony thynge in theyr kepyng, theyr owne lordes toke them and put them in prison and
in greuous tormentis, for to take fro them suche as they had, in suche qyse that the chyldren
of them that had ben riche men, men myght see them goo fro dore to dore, for to begge and gete
theyr brede, and some deye for hungre and mesease." [Footnote: Godeffroy of Bologne, by William,
Archbishop of Tyre, translated from the French by William Caxton, London, 1893, 21, 22.]

Throughout the eleventh century the excitement touching the virtues of the holy places in Judea
grew, until Gregory VII, about the time of Canossa, perceived that a paroxysm was at hand,
and considered leading it, but on the whole nothing is so suggestive of the latent scepticism
of the age as the irresolution of the popes at this supreme moment. The laity were the pilgrims
and the agitators. The kings sought the relics and took the cross; the clergy hung back. Robert,
Duke of Normandy, for example, the father of William the Conqueror, died in 1035 from hardship
at Nicaea when returning from Palestine, absorbed to the last in the relics which he had collected,
but the popes stayed at home. Whatever they may have said in private, neither Hildebrand nor
Victor nor Urban moved officially until they were swept forward by the torrent. They shunned
responsibility for a war which they would have passionately promoted had they been sure of
victory. The man who finally kindled the conflagration was a half-mad fanatic, a stranger to
the hierarchy. No one knew the family of Peter the Hermit, or whence he came, but he certainly
was not an ecclesiastic in good standing. Inflamed by fasting and penance, Peter followed the
throng of pilgrims to Jerusalem, and there, wrought upon by what he saw, he sought the patriarch.
Peter asked the patriarch if nothing could be done to protect the pilgrims, and to retrieve
the Holy Places. The patriarch replied, "Nothing, unless God will touch the heart of the western
princes, and will send them to succor the Holy City." The patriarch did not propose meddling
himself, nor did it occur to him that the pope should intervene. He took a rationalistic view
of the Moslem military power. Peter, on the contrary, was logical, arguing from eleventh-century
premises. If he could but receive a divine mandate, he would raise an invincible army. He prayed.
His prayer was answered. One day while prostrated before the sepulchre he heard Christ charge
him to announce in Europe that the appointed hour had come. Furnished with letters from the
patriarch, Peter straightway embarked for Rome to obtain Urban's sanction for his design. Urban
listened and gave a consent which he could not prudently have withheld, but he abstained from
participating in the propaganda. In March, 1095, Urban called a Council at Piacenza, nominally
to consider the deliverance of Jerusalem, and this Council was attended by thirty thousand
impatient laymen, only waiting for the word to take the vow, but the pope did nothing. Even
at Clermont eight months later, he showed a disposition to deal with private war, or church
discipline, or with anything in fact rather than with the one engrossing question of the day,
but this time there was no escape. A vast multitude of determined men filled not only Clermont
but the adjacent towns and villages, even sleeping in the fields, although the weather was
bitterly cold, who demanded to know the policy of the Church. Urban seems to have procrastinated
as long as he safely could, but, at length, at the tenth session, he produced Peter on the
platform, clad as a pilgrim, and, after Peter had spoken, he proclaimed the war. Urban declined,
however, to command the army. The only effective force which marched was a body of laymen,
organized and led by laymen, who in 1099 carried Jerusalem by an ordinary assault. In Jerusalem
they found the cross and the sepulchre, and with these relics as the foundation of their power,
the laity began an experiment which lasted eighty-eight years, ending in 1187 with the battle
of Tiberias. At Tiberias the infidels defeated the Christians, captured their king and their
cross, and shortly afterward seized the tomb.

If the eleventh-century mind had been as rigid as the Roman mind of the first century, mediaeval
civilization could hardly, after the collapse of the crusades, have failed to degenerate as
Roman civilization degenerated after the defeat of Varus. Being more elastic, it began, under
an increased tension, to develop new phases of thought. The effort was indeed prodigious and
the absolute movement possibly slow, but a change of intellectual attitude may be detected
almost contemporaneously with the fall of the Latin kingdom in Palestine. It is doubtless true
that the thirteenth century was the century in which imaginative thought reached its highest
brilliancy, when Albertus Magnus and Saint Thomas Aquinas taught, when Saint Francis and Saint
Clara lived, and when Thomas of Celano wrote the Dies Irae. It was then that Gothic architecture
touched its climax in the cathedrals of Chartres and Amiens, of Bourges and of Paris; it was
then also that Blanche of Castile ruled in France and that Saint Louis bought the crown of
thorns, but it is equally true that the death of Saint Louis occurred in 1270, shortly after
the thorough organization of the Inquisition by Innocent IV in 1252, and within two years or
so of the production by Roger Bacon of his Opus Majus.

The establishment of the Inquisition is decisive, because it proves that sceptical thought
had been spread far enough to goad the Church to general and systematic repression, while the
Opus Majus is a scientific exposition of the method by which the sceptical mind is trained.

Roger Bacon was born about 1214, and going early to Oxford fell under the influence of the
most liberal teachers in Europe, at whose head stood Robert Grosseteste, afterward Bishop of
Lincoln. Bacon conceived a veneration for Grosseteste, and even for Adam de Marisco his disciple,
and turning toward mathematics rather than toward metaphysics he eagerly applied himself, when
he went to Paris, to astrology and alchemy, which were the progenitors of the modern exact
sciences. In the thirteenth century a young man like Bacon could hardly stand alone, and Bacon
joined the Franciscans, but before many years elapsed he embroiled himself with his superiors.
His friend, Grosseteste, died in 1253, the year after Innocent IV issued the bull Ad extirpanda
establishing the Inquisition, and Bacon felt the consequences. The general of his order, Saint
Bonaventura, withdrew him from Oxford where he was prominent, and immured him in a Parisian
convent, treating him rigorously, as Bacon intimated to Pope Clement IV. There he remained,
silenced, for some ten years, until the election of Clement IV, in 1265. Bacon at once wrote
to Clement complaining of his imprisonment, and deploring to the pope the plight into which
scientific education had fallen. The pope replied directing Bacon to explain his views in a
treatise, but did not order his release. In response Bacon composed the Opus Majus.

The Opus Majus deals among other things with experimental science, and in the introductory
chapter to the sixth part Bacon stated the theory of inductive thought quite as lucidly as
did Francis Bacon three and a half centuries later in the Novum Organum. [Footnote: Positis
radicibus sapientiae Latinorum penes Linguas et Mathematicam et Perspectivam, nunc volo revolvere
radices a parte Scientiae Experimentalis, quia sine experientia nihil sufficienter scire protest.
Duo enim simt modi cognoscendi, scilicet per argumentum et experimentum. Argumentum concludit
et facit nos concedere conclusionem, sed non certificat neque removet dubitationem ut quiescat
animus in intuitu veritatis, nisi eam inveniat via experientiae; quia multi habent argumenta
ad scibilia, sed quia non habent experientiam, negligunt ea, nee vitant nociva nex persequuntue
bona. J. H. Bridges, The Opus Majus of Roger Bacon (Oxford, 1897), II, 167.]

Clement died in 1268. The papacy remained vacant for a couple of years, but in 1271 Gregory
X came in on a conservative reaction. Bacon passed most of the rest of his life in prison,
perhaps through his own ungovernable temper, and ostensibly his writings seem to have had little
or no effect on his contemporaries, yet it is certain that he was not an isolated specimen
of a type of intelligence which suddenly bloomed during the Reformation. Bacon constantly spoke
of his friends, but his friends evidently did not share his temperament. The scientific man
has seldom relished martyrdom, and Galileo's experience as late as 1633 shows what risks men
of science ran who even indirectly attacked the vested interests of the Church. After the middle
of the thirteenth century the danger was real enough to account for any degree of secretiveness,
and a striking case of this timidity is related by Bacon himself. No one knows even the name
of the man to whom Bacon referred as "Master Peter," but according to Bacon, "Master Peter"
was the greatest and most original genius of the age, only he shunned publicity. The "Dominus
experimentorum," as Bacon called him, lived in a safe retreat and devoted himself to mathematics,
chemistry, and the mechanical arts with such success that, Bacon insisted, he could by his
inventions have aided Saint Louis in his crusade more than his whole army. [Footnote: Emile
Charles, Roger Bacon. Sa vie et ses ouvrages, 17.] Nor is this assertion altogether fantastic.
Bacon understood the formula for gunpowder, and if Saint Louis had been provided with even
a poor explosive he might have taken Cairo; not to speak of the terror which Greek fire always
inspired. Saint Louis met his decisive defeat in a naval battle fought in 1250, for the command
of the Nile, by which he drew supplies from Damietta, and he met it, according to Matthew Paris,
because his ships could not withstand Greek fire. Gunpowder, even in a very simple form, might
have changed the fate of the war.

Scepticism touching the value of relics as a means for controlling nature was an effect of
experiment, and, logically enough, scepticism advanced fastest among certain ecclesiastics
who dealt in relics. For example, in 1248 Saint Louis undertook to invade Egypt in defence
of the cross. Possibly Saint Louis may have been affected by economic considerations also touching
the eastern trade, but his ostensible object was a crusade. The risk was very great, the cost
enormous, and the responsibility the king assumed of the most serious kind. Nothing that he
could do was left undone to ensure success. In 1249 he captured Damietta, and then stood in
need of every pound of money and of every man that Christendom could raise; yet at this crisis
the Church thought chiefly of making what it could in cash out of the war, the inference being
that the hierarchy suspected that even if Saint Louis prevailed and occupied Jerusalem, little
would be gained from an ecclesiastical standpoint. At all events, Matthew Paris has left an
account, in his chronicle of the year 1249, of how the pope and the Franciscans preached this
crusade, which is one of the most suggestive passages in thirteenth-century literature:

"About the same time, by command of the pope, whom they obeyed implicitly, the Preacher and
Minorite brethren diligently employed themselves in preaching; and to increase the devotion
of the Christians, they went with great solemnity to the places where their preaching was previously
indicated, and granted many days of indulgence to those who came to hear them.... Preaching
on behalf of the cross, they bestowed that symbol on people of every age, sex and rank, whatever
their property or worth, and even on sick men and women, and those who were deprived of strength
by sickness or old age; and on the next day, or even directly afterwards, receiving it back
from them, they absolved them from their vow of pilgrimage, for whatever sum they could obtain
for the favour. What seemed unsuitable and absurd was, that not many days afterwards, Earl
Richard collected all this money in his treasury, by the agency of Master Bernard, an Italian
clerk, who gathered in the fruit; whereby no slight scandal arose in the Church of God, and
amongst the people in general, and the devotion of the faithful evidently cooled." [Footnote:
Matthew Paris, English History, translated by the Rev. J. A, Giles, II, 309.]

When the unfortunate Baldwin II became Emperor of the East in 1237, the relics of the passion
were his best asset. In 1238, while Baldwin was in France trying to obtain aid, the French
barons who carried on the government at Constantinople in his absence were obliged to pledge
the crown of thorns to an Italian syndicate for 13,134 perpera, which Gibbon conjectures to
have been besants. Baldwin was notified of the pledge and urged to arrange for its redemption.
He met with no difficulty. He confidently addressed himself to Saint Louis and Queen Blanche,
and "Although the king felt keen displeasure at the deplorable condition of Constantinople,
he was well pleased, nevertheless, with the opportunity of adorning France with the richest
and most precious treasure in all Christendom." More especially with "a relic, and a sacred
object which was not on the commercial market." [Footnote: Du Cange, Histoire de L'empire de
Constantinople sous les empereurs Francais, edition de Buchon, I, 259.]

Louis, beside paying the loan and the cost of transportation which came to two thousand French
pounds (the mark being then coined into L2, 15 sous and 6 pence), made Baldwin a present of
ten thousand pounds for acting as broker. Baldwin was so well contented with this sale which
he closed in 1239, that a couple of years later he sent to Paris all the contents of his private
chapel which had any value. Part of the treasure was a fragment of what purported to be the
cross, but the authenticity of this relic was doubtful; there was beside, however, the baby
linen, the spear- head, the sponge, and the chain, beside several miscellaneous articles like
the rod of Moses.

Louis built the Sainte Chapelle at a cost of twenty thousand marks as a shrine in which to
deposit them. The Sainte Chapelle has usually ranked as the most absolutely perfect specimen
of mediaeval religious architecture. [Footnote: On this whole subject of the inter-relation
of mediaeval theology with architecture and philosophy the reader is referred to Mont-Saint-Michel
et Chartres, by Henry Adams, which is the most philosophical and thorough exposition of this
subject which ever has been attempted.]

When Saint Louis bought the Crown of Thorns from Baldwin in 1239, the commercial value of relics
may, possibly, be said to have touched its highest point, but, in fact, the adoration of them
had culminated with the collapse of the Second Crusade, and in another century and a half the
market had decisively broken and the Reformation had already begun, with the advent of Wycliffe
and the outbreak of Wat Tyler's Rebellion in 1381. For these social movements have always a
common cause and reach a predetermined result.

In the eleventh century the convent of Cluny, for example, had an enormous and a perfectly
justified hold upon the popular imagination, because of the sanctity and unselfishness of its
abbots. Saint Hugh won his sainthood by a self-denial and effort which were impossible to ordinary
men, but with Louis IX the penitential life had already lost its attractions and men like Arnold
rapidly brought religion and religious thought into contempt. The famous Grosseteste, Bishop
of Lincoln, born, probably, in 1175, died in 1253. He presided over the diocese of Lincoln
at the precise moment when Saint Louis was building the Sainte Chapelle, but Grosseteste in
1250 denounced in a sermon at Lyons the scandals of the papal court with a ferocity which hardly
was surpassed at any later day.

To attempt even an abstract of the thought of the English Reformation would lead too far, however
fascinating the subject might be. It must suffice to say briefly that theology had little or
nothing to do with it. Wycliffe denounced the friars as lazy, profligate impostors, who wrung
money from the poor which they afterwards squandered in ways offensive to God, and he would
have stultified himself had he admitted, in the same breath, that these reprobates, when united,
formed a divinely illuminated corporation, each member of which could and did work innumerable
miracles through the interposition of Christ. Ordinary miracles, indeed, could be tested by
the senses, but the essence of transubstantiation was that it eluded the senses. Thus nothing
could be more convenient to the government than to make this invisible and intangible necromancy
a test in capital cases for heresy-Hence Wycliffe had no alternative but to deny transubstantiation,
for nothing could be more insulting to the intelligence than to adore a morsel of bread which
a priest held in his hand. The pretension of the priests to make the flesh of Christ was, according
to Wycliffe, an impudent fraud, and their pretension to possess this power was only an excuse
by which they enforced their claim to collect fees, and what amounted to extortionate taxes,
from the people. [Footnote: Nowhere, perhaps, does Wycliffe express himself more strongly on
this subject than in a little tract called The Wicket, written in English, which he issued
for popular consumption about this time.] But, in the main, no dogma, however incomprehensible,
ever troubled Protestants, as a class. They easily accepted the Trinity, the double procession,
or the Holy Ghost itself, though no one had the slightest notion what the Holy Ghost might
be. Wycliffe roundly declared in the first paragraph of his confession [Footnote: Fasciculi
Zizaniorum, 115.] that the body of Christ which was crucified was truly and really in the consecrated
host, and Huss, who inherited the Wycliffian tradition, answered before the Council of Constance,
"Verily, I do think that the body of Christ is really and totally in the sacrament of the altar,
which was born of the Virgin Mary, suffered, died, and rose again, and sitteth on the right
hand of God the Father Almighty." [Footnote: Foxe, Acts and Monuments, III, 452.] That which
has rent society in twain and has caused blood to flow like water, has never been abstract
opinions, but that economic competition either between states or classes, that lust for power
and wealth, which makes a vested interest. Thus by 1382 the eucharist had come to represent
to the privileged classes power and wealth, and they would have repudiated Wycliffe even had
they felt strong enough to support him. But they were threatened by an adversary equally formidable
with heresy in the person of the villeins whom the constantly increasing momentum of the time
had raised into a position in which they undertook to compete for the ownership of the land
which they still tilled as technical serfs.

CHAPTER III.

Now the courts may say what they will in support of the vested interests, for to support vested
interests is what lawyers are paid for and what courts are made for. Only, unhappily, in the
process of argument courts and lawyers have caused blood to flow copiously, for in spite of
all that can be said to the contrary, men have practically proved that they do own all the
property they can defend, all the courts in Christendom notwithstanding, and this is an issue
of physical force and not at all of words or of parchments. And so it proved to be in England
in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, alike in Church and State. It was a matter of rather
slow development. After the conquest villeins could neither in fact nor theory acquire or hold
property as against their lord, and the class of landlords stretched upwards from the owner
of a knight's fee to the king on his throne, who was the chief landlord of all, but by so narrow
a margin that he often had enough to do to maintain some vestige of sovereignty. So, to help
himself, it came to pass that the king intrigued with the serfs against their restive masters,
and the abler the king, the more he intrigued, like Henry I, until the villeins gained very
substantial advantages. Thus it was that toward 1215, or pretty nearly contemporaneously with
the epoch when men like Grosseteste began to show restlessness under the extortionate corruption
of the Church, the villein was discovered to be able to defend his claim to some portion of
the increment in the value of the land which he tilled and which was due to his labor: and
this title the manorial courts recognized, because they could not help it, as a sort of tenant
right, calling it a customary tenancy by base service. A century later these services in kind
had been pretty frequently commuted into a fixed rent paid in money, and the serf had become
a freeman, and a rather formidable freeman, too. For it was largely from among these technical
serfs that Edward III recruited the infantry who formed his line at Crecy in 1346, and the
archers of Crecy were not exactly the sort of men who take kindly to eviction, to say nothing
of slavery. As no one meddled much with the villeins before 1349, all went well until after
Crecy, but in 1348 the Black Death ravaged England, and so many laborers died that the cost
of farming property by hired hands exceeded the value of the rent which the villeins paid.
Then the landlords, under the usual reactionary and dangerous legal advice, tried coercion.
Their first experiment was the famous Statute of Laborers, which fixed wages at the rates which
prevailed in 1347, but as this statute accomplished nothing the landlords repudiated their
contracts, and undertook to force their villeins to render their ancient customary services.
Though the lay landlords were often hard masters, the ecclesiastics, especially the monks,
were harder still, and the ecclesiastics were served by lawyers of their own cloth, whose sharp
practice became proverbial. Thus the law declined to recognize rights in property existing
in fact, with the inevitable result of the peasant rising in 1381, known as Wat Tyler's Rebellion.
Popular rage perfectly logically ran highest against the monks and the lawyers. Both the Archbishop
of Canterbury, Simon de Sudbury, the Lord Chancellor, and the Chief Justice were killed, and
the insurgents wished to kill, as Capgrave has related, "all the men that had learned ony law."
Finally the rebellion was suppressed, chiefly by the duplicity of Richard II. Richard promised
the people, by written charters, a permanent tenure as freemen at reasonable rents, and so
induced them to go home with his charters in their hands; but they were no sooner gone than
vengeance began. Though Richard had been at the peasants' mercy, who might have killed him
had they wished, punitive expeditions were sent in various directions. One was led by Richard
himself, who travelled with Tresilian, the new Chief Justice, the man who afterward was himself
hanged at Tyburn. Tresilian worked so well that he is said to have strung up a dozen villeins
to a single beam in Chelmsford because he had no time to have them executed regularly. Stubbs
has estimated that seven thousand victims hardly satisfied the landlords' sense of outraged
justice. What concerns us, chiefly, is that this repression, however savage, failed altogether
to bring tranquillity. After 1381 a full century of social chaos supervened, merging at times
into actual civil war, until, in 1485, Henry Tudor came in after his victory at Bosworth, pledged
to destroy the whole reactionary class which incarnated feudalism. For the feudal soldier was
neither flexible nor astute, and allowed himself to be caught between the upper and the nether
millstone. While industrial and commercial capital had been increasing in the towns, capitalistic
methods of farming had invaded the country, and, as police improved, private and predatory
warfare, as a business, could no longer be made to pay. The importance of a feudal noble lay
in the body of retainers who followed his banner, and therefore the feudal tendency always
was to overcharge the estate with military expenditure. Hence, to protect themselves from creditors,
the landlords passed the Statute De Donis [Footnote: 13 Edw. I, c. I (A.D. 1284).] which made
entails inalienable. Toward the end of the Wars of the Roses, however, the pressure for money,
which could only be raised by pledging their land, became too strong for the feudal aristocracy.
Edward IV, who was a very able man, perceived, pretty early in his reign, that his class could
not maintain themselves unless their land were put upon a commercial basis. Therefore he encouraged
the judges, in the collusive litigation known to us as Taltarum's Case, decided in 1472, to
set aside the Statute De Donis, by the fiction of the Common Recovery. The concession, even
so, came too late. The combination against them had grown too strong for the soldiers to resist.
Other classes evolved by competition wanted their property, and these made Henry Tudor king
of England to seize it for them.

Henry's work was simple enough. After Bosworth, with a competent police force at hand to execute
process, he had only to organize a political court, and to ruin by confiscatory fines all the
families strong enough, or rash enough, to maintain garrisoned houses. So Henry remodelled
the Star Chamber, in 1486, [Footnote: 3 Henry 7, C 1.] to deal with the martial gentry, and
before long a new type of intelligence possessed the kingdom.

The feudal soldiers being disposed of, it remained to evict the monks, who were thus left without
their natural defenders. No matter of faith was involved. Henry VIII boasted that in doctrine
he was as orthodox as the pope. There was, however, an enormous monastic landed property to
be redistributed This was confiscated, and appropriated, not to public purposes, but, as usually
happens in revolutions, to the use of the astutest of the revolutionists. Among these, John
Russell, afterward Earl of Bedford, stood preeminent. Russell had no particular pedigree or
genius, save the acquisitive genius, but he made himself useful to Henry in such judicial murders
as that of Richard Whiting, Abbot of Glastonbury. He received in payment, among much else,
Woburn Abbey, which has since remained the Bedford country seat, and Covent Garden or Convent
Garden, one of the most valuable parcels of real estate in London. Covent Garden the present
duke recently sold, anticipating, perhaps, some such legislation as ruined the monks and made
his ancestor's fortune. As for the monks whom Henry evicted, they wandered forth from their
homes beggars, and Henry hanged all of them whom he could catch as vagrants. How many perished
as counterpoise for the peasant massacres and Lollard burnings of the foregoing two centuries
can never be known, nor to us is it material. What is essential to mark, from the legal standpoint,
is that while this long and bloody revolution, of one hundred and fifty years, displaced a
favored class and confiscated its property, it raised up in their stead another class of land
monopolists, rather more greedy and certainly quite as cruel as those whom they superseded.
Also, in spite of all opposition, labor did make good its claim to participate more or less
fully in the ownership of the property it cultivated, for while the holding of the ancient
villein grew to be well recognized in the royal courts as a copyhold estate, villeinage itself
disappeared.

Yet, unless I profoundly err, in the revolution of the sixteenth century, the law somewhat
conspicuously failed in its function of moderating competition, for I am persuaded that competition
of another kind sharpened, and shortly caused a second civil war bloodier than the Wars of
the Roses.

Fifteen years before the convents were seized, Sir Thomas More wrote Utopia, in whose opening
chapter More has given an account of a dinner at Cardinal Morton's, who, by the way, presided
in the Star Chamber. At this dinner one of the cardinal's guests reflected on the thievish
propensities of Englishmen, who were to be found throughout the country hanged as felons, sometimes
twenty together on a single gallows. More protested that this was not the fault of the poor
who were hanged, but of rich land monopolists, who pastured sheep and left no fields for tillage.
The dissolution of the convents accelerated the process, and more and more of the weaker yeomanry
were ruined and evicted. It is demonstrated that the pauperization of the feebler rural population
went on apace by the passage of poor-laws under Elizabeth, which, in the Middle Ages, had not
been needed and, therefore, were unknown. This movement, described by More, was the beginning
of the system of enclosing common lands which afterward wrought havoc among the English yeomen,
and which, I suppose, contributed more than any other single cause to the Great Rebellion of
the seventeenth century. In the mediaeval village the owners of small farms enjoyed certain
rights in the common land of the community, affording them pasturage for their cattle and the
like, rights without which small farming could not be made profitable. These commons the land
monopolists appropriated, sometimes giving some shadow of compensation, sometimes by undisguised
force, but on the whole compensation amounted to so little that the enclosure of the commons
must rank as confiscation. Also this seizure of property would doubtless have caused a convulsion
as lasting as that which followed the insurrection of 1381, or as did actually occur in Ireland,
had it not been for an unparalleled contemporaneous territorial and industrial expansion. After a short time
consulting with his penitent, pious not only matters but also the home; was his spiritual advisor
and temporary. The devout young pervaded all their thoughts, times before made accurately in
his brain.

- Father, today you are in a bad mood is because it could not say Mass at the altar of the Conception
as usual .-- you have dark circles, it is seen that has spent the entire night in prayer .-- I
know why said later Sunday Mass: Dona Eloisa expected to arrive .--
That collar pinches you very much.

Are you uncomfortable. You want me to fix it? ...

Their lives were wantonly pervading. Not only had time to talk about all day in the confessional,
but by afternoon were in the church, the rosary, and night too often at home of Ms Eloisa. In addition,
from time to time, for any reason pious, as a novena, a meeting of the guild, etc., she went to
the rectory to inquire, always though it cost him an effort, she had a great fear of D. Miguel.
Had got in his head that he looked at her evil eye, which he despised.

And perhaps he was right to guess.

This confidence came to be too excessive at times. At least I thought Fr Gil. Obdulia be authorized
from time to time some relatives who clashed, and sometimes momentarily came to disturb the
clarity of his consciousness. One day he spoke of his troubles economic. The father gave him
some money for household expenses, and as he was vice charity, giving alms to spray and pray,
had contracted debts which the mortified; above all was a shopkeeper who was twenty dollars,
which bothered him at all times and threatened to tell his dad. Could not he provide for a short
time this amount? The cleric also had them, but they are asked to sponsor and handed flushed.
She shamelessly accepted them as a matter of course. Another day took him to church Groom
packet of letters she had for the read. Later he asked the scapular necks, and both urged and
argued such pretexts, which concluded by get it. The next day he confessed, smiling, that was not
to put it to a friend who had just died, but to bring her on the chest. These things hurt and
disturbed vaguely young priest. The little jokes which Blessed be allowed to speak also exceeded
sometimes desirable ranges. One day he said suddenly:

- Do you know what I'm thinking, father?

The angel who comes often to get the hand on the head's eyes are very similar to yours.

And burst out laughing as he said. The cleric also laughed, blushing. Then it was serious and
moody.

A strange incident, which shocked the town, came in an indirect way to further strengthen and
disturb their relationship to P. Gil. One night he woke up terrified by the noise of a detonation
inside the house. Jumped up and ran to the room D. Miguel, where he figured he had come. To reach
it froze in terror at the scene which appeared in sight. A man rolled in the middle of the room
in a pool of blood, while D. Michael, standing on the bed, waving
a pistol shouting triumphant smile fierce - I dropped one!

I dropped one! - The dim light of a candle lit lying on the floor that fateful scene.

The case had been that, being the priest in bed, a man had entered her bedroom, had awakened and
summoned him to give you the money. D. Miguel threw undeterred hand to the vest, took the key and threw
it into the middle of the room. Then, as the thief picked it up, took one of the guns under
the bed and had shot him leaving tended. The bullet had penetrated
through the kidneys.

The toilet, dominating his fright, quick to give spiritual aid. It only took three hours to
expire.

The event is said a lot and very different way in the village. Some approved of the conduct the
cure. Was entitled to defend itself from an outlaw that God knows what would after stealing it. Others,
again, sharply censured. A priest can not work like others in this case. Is a minister of Jesus
Christ and must always act with charity even in self-defense. Fr Gil was deeply shocked, but
kept silent. A priest, before his hands bloodied, was not only to be robbed, but to kill. Our
Lord had taught so when St. Peter cut the ear of the soldier who
came to arrest him.

Obdulia transpired the feelings that agitated him and advised him to leave the rectory and settled
in another house.

- You can no longer live there after what happened, Father. The scare has led been very strong,
and every day has to be renewed the impression viewing the site.

This was not exactly what he meant, but a truly Christian man virtuous living must suffer many things
beside who had just violent death a fellow. But if he did not say with words, was left to guess
at the seriousness and sadness of their continent. Fr Gil longed for a long time otherwise. The
company's pastor I was upset, as we know. Now, after the murder (as he described their conscience)
it had become unbearable. D. Michael had incurred the censure of the Church, he withdrew licenses
for confession and say Mass: the rehabilitation would arrive a season.

Taking advantage of those moments of terrible weakness of the priest, with the help of her
godmother rented a house not far from the church and moved to it. A former Ms Eloisa maid came
to serve and be his housekeeper.

Freed from fear of the pastor, Obdulia began to frequent the new home of Excuses carry on high
surveillance. Enterábase of linen, robes of state, of the foods that most pleased the father,
of the peculiarities of his bed. Sometimes came to help the ironing board ironing or wearing
for those things at home more sensitive as the dawns and rochets, recosía stockings that were
broken, stains removed cassocks, etc.. These were ordinary tasks. But also engaged in some work
thinner, in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of clothing priesthood.
Ms Josefa, the housekeeper, not willingly accepted the protectorate, but As yet there was rooted
deep in the house and noted the close friendship that Miss his master had not dared to protest.
Murmur contented with her when went to visit his old lady and call voyeuristic and silly. Later
he was champing will brake even worse and ended by bolt, as we shall see. Neither Fr Gil was calm
and happy atmosphere in the attentions of affection and veneration in which the young man was
involved. As much as the living professed admiration and took into account his advice, I felt
a vague discomfort every time he saw her taking care of material care of his person. It seemed
to him that this was to lower the character of that spiritual friendship, trained and supported
to improve their souls, to help on the way of perfection. I had heard nothing from Santa Teresa
to go over the middle of San Juan de la Cruz. Also, do not really understand the contempt
of the flesh, so well practiced she, with the amenities that surround you intended. Why have
been so severe for and so tender it for him?

Perchance, allowed him so weak and cowardly that he could not live without such care?

Fr Gil pondered this, leaning on the railing of a corridor to his room was lattice above the
sea. The crimson sun was through any veil, wrapped in a warm light wave and red the village
and the bay. The canvas of rock that stood there in front closes its mass great on the water,
casting and a wide area of ​​shade. And that blackness between the priest's eyes perceive the glare
of the waves, showing and off at short intervals its whiteness. The pier was deserted, even when
the time was not the return of the boats. The quechemarines pataches and nodded gently, tired
of their inaction. A gull flying concentric circles with their wings touching the water surface.
The soft distant murmur of the waves filled the room asleep a murmur. The small cove only lived mobile
game of light that bathed the bloody clarity would slowly withdraw
behind the rocks.

So absorbed was he that Ms Josefa needed to call three times from
the door to get that return.

- What?

- A lady is downstairs asking
for you.

He says he needs to talk at once.

- A lady? "- Said the P. Gil opening his eyes .-- Will Miss Obdulia.

- No, sir, not that - said he loves doing with her lips a gesture of disdain .-- Mrs. that looks
down is much more beautiful and elegant.

- Did not you know? - Asked
somewhat shortened by the intention that warned of the words Ms Josefa.

-
No, sir, is an outsider.

- Well let you go.

It took a few seconds to display a beautiful young as twenty-four, blonde, face very white and
delicate features, dressed elegantly pilgrim. In his life he had seen Fr Gil, even in Lancia,
a lady so distinguished. His dress was simple, travel, but so original and cutting with such
luxury and attention to detail, was put to immediately see the high quality of the individual. It gave
off a soft scent that came to hurt his nose so he stepped into the room. Miron with surprise,
astonishment became the see that the lady moved resolutely to him, and without a word dropped
to his knees at his feet sobbing.

- Lady ... God ... you get up! - told stunned.

The lady did not budge.

- Lady, get you - repeated again taking her gently by the arm.

The silent stranger stood up and dropped into a chair, raised his
hat candle covering his eyes and wiped with a handkerchief.

Fr Gil, standing before her, waiting to explain.

And showed no signs of it, before covering her face increasingly ventured to say:

- Madam, I would like to know how I can serve ...

Still took a moment
to respond.

Finally he said, without removing the tissue of the eye:

- I am the wife of D. Alvaro Montesinos.

The toilet took a step back involuntarily.

How? "This lady was despicable slut had the misfortune of D. Alvaro of who her godmother Ms
Eloisa always spoke with horror? For it knew the sad story of that marriage. The heir to the house
of Montesinos was in love like crazy a young man of good family, but without money, one of those
girls who are usually seen in Madrid in all theaters and all Sarah to hunt for a rich husband.
Be even with Montesinos, Joaquin Dominguez (that was his name) gave cordelejo a season, perhaps
hoping that came with the same wealth and better shape, because the firstborn of Peñascosa was,
indeed, the most feeble and miserable that could be. When they did not arrive, resolviose one
day to fall in love with him and showed it in a way that left no room for doubt. "All the elegant
Madrid" recalled a cute blonde paid to turn first pair of theater Real, who spent the night
chatting with a skinny, pale gentleman sitting in the row back, that the Comedy Theatre and the
Apollo did not detract top Twins from his audience, taking him on the ride trailer del Retiro,
and up in the morning when she went shopping, she looked to him, escorted by his mother. Entirely
convinced love, the gentleman asked her to marry, and obtained not without some work, because
the mother Costolo many tears give that jewel, which was the joy of the house. In the first D.
spent four months Álvaro income throughout the year. Joachimite wanted
car and box in theaters, and gave meetings and soirees.

But she was so beautiful and her husband was so happy, frantic with love professed that he had
not refused the heart and blood if one day the request after a long loving kiss, pressed,
spasmodic, such as those gave him when he had to ask for a diamond rivière sociable or full suspension.

At
six months just fancied the young wife to travel to Europe, a long trip was to last a year
or more, to visit all of France, Italy, then England go, go to Germany and run to St. Petersburg.
The lover Montesinos placed no obstacles in this desire, but should put them. We needed a respectable
capital to do it, watch the comforts and trappings that Joaquin intended travel. Loan requested
some of 30,000 farms went out hard and Madrid.

In Hendaye at the inn were railroad Federico Torres drinking chocolate,
a half-witted son of a minister Madrid Court Accounts.

A Joaquin had always been very unfriendly, not knowing why.

- Where
will this puppet? - Asked softly, after his greeting coldly match.

Montesinos shrugged indifferently.

- What will you fight this guy! I find it fine and pleasant.

- What horror - she said laughing.

Pau went to see him at the station, and no longer saw him more. In Marseille thought marriage stop four
or five days, but the third, coming D. Álvaro station fix the subject of sleeping-car for
the next day, to his surprise he found his wife not at home. The surprise became all at once
astonished to see the horrible mess of the room. The big Saratoga trunk of his wife was gone.
There were different items of clothing by soil. The servants told him that the woman had been
transporting the chest after leaving He double-billing for small, he said. Then came out and had
not returned. Montesinos, stunned, horrified by the idea that crossed by the brain, opened
with a hand convulsively Secret of the chest where they kept the
money.

Not a penny was there already. Understanding of once all his misfortune, fell to the ground as
if struck by lightning.

It was several days between life and death.

When she regained consciousness, he telegraphed to his brother D. Martin which immediately appeared
and took him to Peñascosa. He soon became known that Joaquin Federico had escaped with Torres, and traveling
merrily around Europe with the money the gentleman.

This was the woman before the P. Gil.

After that first movement of repulsion, was rebuilt and said:

- Serénese you a little lady, and tell me how I can promote it.

- I just returned from Madrid - articulated with the lady working
- and I headed home to my husband with whom I fought long ago ...
Wanted to reconcile with him ... to conclude that separation so ugly
and so outrageous ... An old servant who has ... A brute!

... would not let me see ... grabbed my arm ... I threw to home to shove ... Yes, shoving!

Here
the woman burst into tears again and again covered her face with her handkerchief.

The priest waited to continue, but seeing that he did not, took the
floor again.

- I'm sorry this incident, Mrs. ... But I do not think
there is cause for such despair.

The offenses that do not feel forgiven.

Pardon this poor servant who has done without knowing I did, and
tell me what I can do in your gift.

Dry eyes unfaithful wife. Again and again moisten dry.

- As I have said here at the inn, you're the only person who visits my husband ... I beg, for the
most sacred, and that you are his friend, to intervene to end our
separation.

I want it long ago with anxiety ... I confess that I was not good for he ...

- Yes, yes, I know everything - impatiently interrupted the cleric.

The lady was highly colored.

- I confess that I have offended seriously ... It was a moment of blindness ... a temptation demon
... But I've always wanted ... and I love him ... I have no objection to humiliate to ask forgiveness
on his knees ... You see, father, if you do not humiliate me like no ... I am appalled at the idea
of ​​not getting his forgiveness, dying away from him alone, damn! Oh, future so awful! ... If
anything I have sinned, believe me I have suffered much in recent
times ...

- Lady, and can you understand if I would join a satisfaction
in marriage dissolved ... the same thing to you than anyone else.

My mission is to preach harmony between men and die for it if necessary. Even without asking me
I have the duty, my responsibility, to strive in this parish reconciliation
among quarreling marriage ... But this case is sensitive.

Apart from the extremely serious offense that you have inflicted on her husband, the scandal that
accompanied it, of those who followed, all of which make it extremely
difficult reconciliation apart that, again, there is another major
difficulty.

And is that your husband is out of the Church Catholic. I have no other influence on him than
he can give a superficial friendship.

None of reasoning to which I could appeal as a priest has power over his mind. On the contrary,
given their ideas, it is possible that served to embravecerle more, or at least derision ...

-
Yes, yes - the lady interrupted shrilly, malevolent, - my husband has always been a wicked,
an atheist outrageous.

- Lady, is of little use to believe if you act as if no thought -
said severely toilets, who had wounded the aggressive tone of the
lady, so contrary to humility before.

To be turned red and dropped his eyes back to affect a great contrition.

Fr Gil continued:

- Anyway, as a Christian and a priest, I am willing to do all they
can my power to get what you want.

I doubt much of the success of my speech ... I know I also expose
you to be cast as the house, but I do not care.

Keep my duty, and if you do not get anything, I will be at least the satisfaction of having fulfilled
...

He remained thoughtful for a moment, while the lady kept on him a look intense and anxious. Then, as
if speaking to himself rather than with her, continued:

- The address is now home to D. Alvaro has drawbacks. The common people are curious ... Came
the gossip ... after the scandal ... I think we should wait a while to concluded dark, or better
yet, that I was ahead to test the matter ...

- No! No! - Exclaimed the lady .-- will not prevent you. Would refuse to receive me. It is necessary
to take him suddenly, take the first movement of his heart that is generous. Then, when reflects,
it is bad, mocking ...

- As you wish. So we will wait.

But the moment of pronouncing the word took over the inconvenience
of staying much time alone with a woman, a little embarrassed and
said:

- You will allow me to leave her alone while a few moments
... I'm with you shortly.

Instead of being with her, sent her love
to accompany her. Only when the light was extinguished completely
up again with hat in hand, prepared to leave. The wife of D. Álvaro,
so I saw this trace, rose from his chair.

He had already closed the
night. Seafarers had retired to their houses or taverns. In the long,
winding street a few passers-circular dial. The toilet and wife Montesinos
walked a while in silence towards the Field of fainting. Approaching
he both felt agitated, fearful. Both to calm down a bit as a precaution,
paused a moment, and getting into the hollow of a door, whispered
with animation. Fr Gil insisted on his idea first entered the house
and explore the spirit of D. Álvaro: afraid of a scandal. The lady
was opposed by heat, convinced beyond all doubt that her husband would
refuse to receive it at all, and take precautions to avoid the pisase
floor of his house. The more embedded in the discussion were of another
door opening near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly.

-
Good evening, Father, good night. In short,
England, as a community, did little or nothing by education for those who had no means, and
but little to draw any one toward science. It was at this precise moment that Germany was cast
into the furnace of modern competition with England, who had, because of a series of causes,
chiefly geographical, topographical, and mineralogical, about a century the start of her. Against
this advantage Germany had to rely exclusively upon civil and military education. At first
this competition by Germany took a military complexion, and very rapidly wrought the complete
consolidation of Germany by the Austrian and the French wars. But this phase presently passed,
and after the French campaign of 1870 the purely economic aspect of the situation developed
more strenuously still, so much so that intelligent observers, among whom Lord Roberts was
conspicuous, perceived quite early in the present century that the heat generated in the conflict
must, probably, soon engender war. Nor could it either theoretically or practically have been
otherwise, for the relations between the two countries had reached a point where they generated
a friction which caused incandescence automatically. And, moreover, the inflammable material
fit for combustion was, especially in Germany, present in quantity. From the time of Fichte
and Scharnhorst downward to the end of the century, the whole nation had learned, as a sort
of gospel, that the German education produced a most superior engine of economic competition,
whereas the slack education and frivolous amusements of English civil and military life alike,
had gradually created a society apt to crumble. And it is only needful for any person who has
the curiosity, to glance at the light literature of the Victorian age, which deals with the
army, to see how dominant a part such an amusement as hunting played in the life of the younger
officers, especially in the fashionable regiments, to be impressed with the soundness of much
of this German criticism.

Assuming, then, for the sake of argument, that these historical premises are sound, I proceed
to consider how they bear on our prospective civilization.

This is eminently a scientific age, and yet the scientific mind, as it is now produced among
us, is not without tendencies calculated to cause uneasiness to those a little conversant with
history or philosophy. For whereas no one in these days would dream of utilizing prayer, as
did Moses or Saint Hugh, as a mechanical energy, nevertheless the search for a universal prime
motor goes on unabated, and yet it accomplishes nothing to the purpose. On the contrary, the
effect is one which could neither be expected nor desired. Instead of being an aid to social
coordination, it stimulates disintegration to a high degree as the war has shown. It has stimulated
disintegration in two ways. First, it has enormously quickened physical movement, which has
already been discussed, and secondly, it has stimulated the rapidity with which thought is
diffused. The average human being can only absorb and assimilate safely new forms of thought
when given enough time for digestion, as if he were assimilating food. If he be plied with
new thought too rapidly he fails to digest. He has a surfeit, serious in proportion to its
enormity. That is to say, his power of drawing correct conclusions from the premises submitted
to him fails, and we have all sorts of crude experiments in sociology attempted, which end
in that form of chaos which we call a violent revolution. The ordinary result is infinite waste
fomented by fallacious hopes; in a word, financial disaster, supplemented usually by loss of
life. The experience is an old one, and the result is almost invariable.

For example, during the Middle Ages, men like Saint Hugh and Peter the Venerable, and, most
of all, Saint Francis, possessed by dreams of attaining to perfection, by leading lives of
inimitable purity, self- devotion, and asceticism, inspired the community about them with the
conviction that they could work miracles. They thereby, as a reward, drew to the Church they
served what amounted to being, considering the age they lived in, boundless wealth. But the
effect of this economic phenomenon was far from what they had hoped or expected. Instead of
raising the moral standard of men to a point where all the world would be improved, they so
debased the hierarchy, by making money the standard of ambition within it, that, as a whole,
the priesthood accepted, without any effective protest, the fires of the Council of Constance
which consumed Huss, and the abominations of the Borgias at Rome. Perfectly logically, as a
corollary to this orgy of crime and bestiality, the wars of the Reformation swept away many,
many thousands of human beings, wasted half of Europe, and only served to demonstrate the futility
of ideals.

And so it was with the Puritans, who were themselves the children of the revolt against social
corruption. They fondly believed that a new era was to be ushered in by the rule of the Cromwellian
saints. What the Cromwellian saints did in truth usher in, was the carnival of debauchery of
Charles II, in its turn to be succeeded by the capitalistic competitive age which we have known,
and which has abutted in the recent war.

Man can never hope to change his physical necessities, and therefore his moral nature must
always remain the same in essence, if not in form. As Washington truly said, "The motives which
predominate most in human affairs are self-love and self-interest," and "nothing binds one
country or one state to another but interest."

If, then, it be true, that man is an automatic animal moving always along the paths of least
resistance toward predetermined ends, it cannot fail to be useful to us in the present emergency
to mark, as distinctly as we can, the causes which impelled Germany, at a certain point in
her career, to choose the paths which led to her destruction rather than those which, at the
first blush, promised as well, and which seemed to be equally as easy and alluring. And we
may possibly, by this process, expose certain phenomena which may profit us, since such an
examination may help us to estimate what avenues are like to prove ultimately the least resistant.

Throughout the Middle Ages North Germany, which is the region whereof Berlin is the capital,
enjoyed relatively little prosperity, because Brandenburg, for example, lay beyond the zone
of those main trade routes which, before the advent of railways, served as the arteries of
the eastern trade. Not until after the opening of the Industrial Revolution in England, did
that condition alter. Nor even then did a change come rapidly because of the inertia of the
Russian people. Nevertheless, as the Russian railway system developed, Berlin one day found
herself standing, as it were, at the apex of a vast triangle whose boundaries are, roughly,
indicated by the position of Berlin itself, Petersburg, Warsaw, Moscow, Kiev, and the Ukraine.
Beyond Berlin the stream of traffic flowed to Hamburg and thence found vent in America, as
a terminus. Great Britain, more especially, demanded food, and food passed by sea from Odessa.
Hence Russia served as a natural base for Germany, taking German manufactures and offering
to Germany a reservoir capable of absorbing her redundant population. Thus it had long been
obvious that intimate relations with Russia were of prime importance to Germany since all the
world could perceive that the monied interests of Russia must more and more fall into German
hands, because of the intellectual limitations of the Russians. Also pacification to the eastward
always was an integral part of Bismarck's policy. Notwithstanding which other influences conflicted
with, and ultimately overbalanced, this eastern trend in Germany.

For many thousand years before written history began, the economic capital of the world, the
seat for the time being of opulence and of splendor, and at once the admiration and the envy
of less favored rivals, has been a certain ambulatory spot upon the earth's surface, at a point
where the lines of trade from east to west have converged. And always the marked idiosyncrasy
of this spot has been its unrest. It has constantly oscillated from east to west according
as the fortunes of war have prevailed, or as the march of applied science has made one or another
route of transportation cheaper or more defensible.

Thus Babylon was conquered and robbed by Rome, and Rome, after a long heyday of prosperity,
yielded to Constantinople, while Constantinople lost her supremacy to Venice, Genoa, and North
Italy, following the sack of Constantinople by the Venetians in 1202 A.D. The Fairs of Champaign
in France, and the cities of the Rhine and Antwerp were the glory of the Middle Ages, but these
great markets faded when the discovery of the long sea voyage to India threw the route by the
Red Sea and Cairo into eccentricity, and caused Spain and Portugal to bloom. Spain's prosperity
did not, however, last long. England used war during the sixteenth century as an economic weapon,
pretty easily conquering. And since the opening of the Industrial Revolution, at least, London,
with the exception of the few years when England suffered from the American revolt of 1776,
has assumed steadily more the aspect of the great international centre of exchanges, until
with Waterloo her supremacy remained unchallenged. It was this brilliant achievement of London,
won chiefly by arms, which more than any other cause impelled Germany to try her fortunes by
war rather than by the methods of peace.

Nor was the German calculation of chances unreasonable or unwarranted. For upwards of two centuries
Germany had found war the most profitable of all her economic ventures; especially had she
found the French war of 1870 a most lucrative speculation. And she felt unbounded confidence
that she could win as easy a triumph with her army, over the French, in the twentieth as in
the nineteenth century. But, could she penetrate to Paris and at the same time occupy the littoral
of the Channel and Antwerp, she was persuaded that she could do to the commerce of England
what England had once done to the commerce of Spain, and that Hamburg and Berlin would supplant
London. And this calculation might have proved sound had it not been for her oversight in ignoring
one essential factor in the problem. Ever since North America was colonized by the English,
that portion of the continent which is now comprised by the Republic of the United States,
had formed a part of the British economic system, even when the two fragments of that system
were competing in war, as has occurred more than once. And as America has waxed great and rich
these relations have grown closer, until of recent years it has become hard to determine whether
the centre of gravity of this vast capitalistic mass lay to the east or to the west of the
Atlantic. One fact, however, from before the outset of this war had been manifest, and that
was that the currents of movement flowed with more power from America to England than from
America to Germany. And this had from before the outbreak of hostilities affected the relations
of the parties. Should Germany prevail in her contest with England, the result would certainly
be to draw the centre of exchanges to the eastward, and thereby to throw the United States,
more or less, into eccentricity; but were England to prevail the United States would tend to
become the centre toward which all else would gravitate. Hence, perfectly automatically, from
a time as long ago as the Spanish War, the balance, as indicated by the weight of the United
States, hung unevenly as between Germany and England, Germany manifesting something approaching
to repulsion toward the attraction of the United States while Great Britain manifested favor.
And from subsequent evidence, this phenomenon would seem to have been thus early developed,
because the economic centre of gravity of our modern civilization had already traversed the
Atlantic, and by so doing had decided the fortunes of Germany in advance, in the greater struggle
about to come. Consider attentively what has happened. In April, 1917, when the United States
entered the conflict, Germany, though it had suffered severely in loss of men, was by no means
exhausted. On the contrary, many months subsequently she began her final offensive, which she
pushed so vigorously that she penetrated to within some sixty miles of Paris. But there, at
Chateau Thierry, on the Marne, she first felt the weight of the economic shift. She suddenly
encountered a division of American troops advancing to oppose her. Otherwise the road to Paris
lay apparently open. The American troops were raw levies whom the Germans pretended to despise.
And yet, almost without making a serious effort at prolonged attack, the Germans began their
retreat, which only ended with their collapse and the fall of the empire.

A similar phenomenon occurred once before in German history, and it is not an uncommon incident
in human experience when nature has already made, or is on the brink of making, a change in
the seat of the economic centre of the world. In the same way, when Constantine won the battle
of the Milvian Bridge, with his men fighting under the standard of the Labarum, it was subsequently
found that the economic capital of civilization had silently migrated from the Tiber to the
Bosphorus, where Constantine seated himself at Constantinople, which was destined to be the
new capital of the world for about eight hundred years. So in 1792, when the Prussians and
the French refugees together invaded France, they never doubted for an instant that they should
easily disperse the mob, as they were pleased to call it, of Kellermann's "vagabonds, cobblers,
and tailors." Nevertheless the Germans recoiled on the slope of Valmy from before the republican
army, almost without striking a blow, nor could they be brought again to the attack, although
the French royalists implored to be allowed to storm the hill alone, provided they could be
assured of support. Then the retreat of the Duke of Brunswick began, and this retreat was the
prelude to the Napoleonic empire, to Austerlitz, to Jena, to the dismemberment and to the reorganization
of Prussia and to the evolution of modern Germany: in short, to the conversion of the remnants
of mediaeval civilization into the capitalistic, industrial, competitive society which we have
known. And all this because of the accelerated movement caused by science.

If it be, indeed, a fact that the victory of Chateau Thierry and the subsequent retreat of
the German army together with the collapse of the German Empire indicate, as there is abundant
reason to suppose that they may, a shift in the world's social equilibrium, equivalent to the
shift in Europe presaged by Valmy, or to that which substituted Constantinople for Rome and
which was marked by the Milvian Bridge, it follows that we must prepare ourselves for changes
possibly greater than our world has seen since it marched to Jerusalem under Godfrey de Bouillon.
And the tendency of those changes is not so very difficult, perhaps, roughly to estimate, always
premising that they are hardly compatible with undue optimism. Supposing, for example, we consider,
in certain of their simpler aspects, some of the relations of Great Britain toward ourselves,
since Great Britain is not only our most important friend, assuming that she remain a friend,
but our most formidable competitor, should competition strain our friendship. Also Great Britain
has the social system nearest akin to our own, and most likely to be influenced by the same
so-called democratic tendencies. For upwards of a hundred years Great Britain has been, and
she still is, absolutely dependent on her maritime supremacy for life. It was on that issue
she fought the Napoleonic wars, and when she prevailed at Trafalgar and Waterloo she assumed
economic supremacy, but only on the condition that she should always be ready and willing to
defend it, for it is only on that condition that economic supremacy can be maintained. War
is the most potent engine of economic competition. Constantinople and Antwerp survived and
flourished on the same identical conditions long before the day of London. She must keep her
avenues of communication with all the world open, and guard them against possible attack. So
long as America competed actively with England on the sea, even for her own trade, her relations
with Great Britain were troubled. The irritation of the colonies with the restrictions which
England put upon their commerce materially contributed to foment the revolution, as abundantly
appears in the famous case of John Hancock's sloop Liberty, which was seized for smuggling.
So in the War of 1812, England could not endure the United States as a competitor in her contest
with France. She must be an ally, or, in other words, she must function as a component part
of the British economic system, or she must be crushed. The crisis came with the attack of
the Leopard on the Chesapeake in 1807, after which the possibility of maintaining peace, under
such a pressure, appeared, in its true light, as a phantasm. After the war, with more or less
constant friction, the same conditions continued until the outbreak of the Rebellion, and then
Great Britain manifested her true animus as a competitor. She waged an unacknowledged campaign
against the commerce of the United States, building, equipping, arming, manning, and succoring
a navy for the South, which operated none the less effectively because its action was officially
repudiated. And in this secret warfare England prevailed, since when the legislation of the
United States has made American competition with England on the sea impossible. Wherefore we
have had peace with England. We have supplied Great Britain with food and raw materials, abandoning
to England the carrying trade and an undisputed naval supremacy. Consequently Great Britain
feels secure and responds to the full force of that economic attraction which makes America
naturally, a component part of the British economic system. But let American pretensions once
again revive to the point of causing her to attempt seriously to develop her sea power as of
yore, and the same friction would also revive which could hardly, were it pushed to its legitimate
end, eventuate otherwise than in the ultimate form of all economic competition.

If such a supposition seems now to be fanciful, it is only necessary to reflect a moment on
the rapidity with which national relations vary under competition, to be assured that it is
real. As Washington said, the only force which binds one nation to another is interest. The
rise of Germany, which first created jealousy in England, began with the attack on Denmark
in 1864. Then Russia was the power which the British most feared and with whom they were on
the worst of terms. About that period nothing would have seemed more improbable than that these
relations would be reversed, and that Russia and England would jointly, within a generation,
wage fierce war on Germany. We are very close to England now, but we may be certain that, were
we to press, as Germany pressed, on British maritime and industrial supremacy, we should be
hated too. It is vain to disguise the fact that British fortunes in the past have hinged on
American competition, and that the wisest and most sagacious Englishmen have been those who
have been most alive to the fact. Richard Cobden, for example, was one of the most liberal
as he was one of the most eminent of British economists and statesmen of the middle of the
nineteenth century. He was a democrat by birth and education, and a Quaker by religion. In
1835, just before he entered public life, Cobden visited the United States and thus recorded
his impressions on his return:

"America is once more the theatre upon which nations are contending for mastery; it is not,
however, a struggle for conquest, in which the victor will acquire territorial dominion--the
fight is for commercial supremacy, and will be won by the cheapest.... It is from the silent
and peaceful rivalry of American commerce, the growth of its manufactures, its rapid progress
in internal improvements, ... it is from these, and not from the barbarous policy or the impoverishing
armaments of Russia, that the grandeur of our commercial and national prosperity is endangered." In mock where
the ceremony that celebrated the moral and material regeneration Peñascosa was a insolence,
and as rightly said D. Juan Casanova, "was not a good idea of ​​the culture of Lancia press.
"kissed not because, although D. Gaspar was certain tendencies to do so, their noses too close
to the face of purple appeared, but this one withdrew, giving evidence of prudence, because
it spoke in terms of very serious Peñascosa D. noses Gaspar.

Finished the anthem, started again and repeated indefinitely to desserts. Governor again addressed
the floor to the public. A few governors to oust gives municipalities, others because they take
the mattresses placed the Provincial. To him was by eloquence. D. replied Peregrin Casanova,
and was able to call him "my distinguished companion "and allude to the high duties imposed
by the government of a province," he had tried to meet once the extent of weak forces. "He also
spoke D. José Mary the apothecary, advocating the advancement of religion as "an element of progress"
(le frasecillas were certain that the time was a freethinker) and as "obstacle to the desires
bastards. "Jose spoke the tobacconist, spoke D. Remigio Flórez, the manufacturer of canned food,
spoke the editor of El Porvenir Lancia (a few days ago that he had fought a saber D. Rosendo
Belinchón, director of The Lighthouse Sarrió). And the governor spoke again. An editor of The
Young Sarrio tried to say a few words, but he was interrupted with a few murmurs from the boxes,
and sat very bland. Finally, D. Gaspar Silva walked across the stage with a paper in his hand.
"Silence! Chis, hush! ... That shut up! - Silence! Out! - Chis, hush! "In the midst of a religious
silence, the famous bard of rocks began to read an ode to dramatic voice of religion. No sacred
subjects were his specialty. He had always preferred to put the lira to the service of freedom
and democratic ideas. His best composition was a sonnet to synallagmatic bilateral pact. Understanding,
however, with profound insight, the sublime destination that heaven had designated sang, as
poets and demigods of antiquity, all that is offered his view, peace and war, democracy and
manors, religion and free thought. This ode, which began: "Oh sweet religion immaculate!" Was
spirited and was greeted with live samples approval. The banquet ended dark.

At six o'clock the sexton and some city employees began to illuminate the lanterns the Venetian
Field of fainting, so that the eight were almost all on.

The evening was made very happy. In one corner of the villagers danced to Country sound of the
bagpipe and drum, and another did the same the craft to the beat of the municipal band. People ran
through the free space less and less relief, as the street Quadrant could not stop vomiting
blue blouses and scarves on the above Country percale. The most exquisite peñasquense society took refuge
on the porch of the church, establishing the familiar caste divisions. Organizose a walk immediately
where strangers could Lancia see at a single glance all the great and majestic in its enclosed
Peñascosa breast. There was the mass gathering of Ms Eloisa, and also another part of the nobility
The villa, with which we could not put the reader in relationship. Having enjoyed for a long time
the pleasure of seeing, as the immortals on Mount Olympus, isolated and above other created
beings, that society was breaking into the field of Fainting to watch the fireworks from the
renowned pyrotechnic Palencia. Entered without decomposition, with a disdain and severity of respect
calculated to replenish the heart of the lower castes.

Flowing down like a monkey through the beautiful dark, seeking the proximity of the obese women
and if not, the of which were in regular meat, he was our friend Osuna, administrator Montesinos
home.

By the time he was not surprised won more than a slap; strange case, because in these nights of
fun used to meet half a dozen, so less. Somewhat disappointed in this aspect, not so much as slapping
what preceded them, She moved impatiently glancing butchers around him, without finding a place
enough pleasant and delightful to set their steps. That night they had met all the skinny of
rocks. But lo, when it starts to burn the first round of gunpowder, discerns not far from the cool
Ms Theodora, the constant dream of its existence, more radiant and lush than ever, with his
white hair and pink cheeks smooth and shiny skin. Verla and set out for it was all one. But
this way in such circumstances was more difficult than anyone can imagine. People thronged to
see the fireworks and remained motionless, forming a thick wall. Our hunchback's through with
diabolical art, writhing like a lizard to pass through the narrow holes. After a good time managed
to get behind the cute buxom. He was escorted by two brothers Casanova, who had come along together
with the maid. Continued fighting over their hearts, furious effort by the D. Peregrin, with
noble and severe tranquility by D. Juan. In this contest the virtuous and mature love girl suffered
a lot, believe guilty of the best fights that erupted between two brothers. Sought to maintain
neutrality but missed seeing D. Peregrin took the brunt. Explicábale it in the tone sufficiency that
characterized him, some interesting details of the fireworks industry and cited a number of
fires he had seen during his time as clerks, truly amazing. D. Poor Juan, who had never left
the narrow space of rocks and could not cite anything, silent as ever. But he ran buxom pulquérrima
occasionally a soft look and a soft smile still, they could compensate for his sedentary life.

When Ms Theodora turned his head to see who pressed both and found Osuna changed color. That damned
hunchback never gave her no peace. At the gathering, on the promenade, in the theater, church, anywhere
where I had occasion to approach, was known need was seen to suffer the nasty touch their legs
and sometimes their hands too. Osuna was familiar with his ground. The beautiful and buxom pudorosa
had fallen before dying of embarrassment to admit to any attacks
he was receiving.

But if the confession, anyone could ascertain them, noting the state of agitation he was. On
this occasion, the hunchback walked excessively bold. Ms Theodora began show signs of anxiety such
that for any would be visible. D. Juan did not see no however. It was a pure and magnanimous
man, incapable of suspecting the big dirt can have on earth. But D. Peregrin, a man of the
world, concluded by noting some what was happening. Osuna spied the corner of my eye, and when
his spirit went into government the conviction of the violation being committed, he began to
snore and whistle for nose as a mist in danger, while throwing glances of indignation flashing
the bold hunchback. He ignored those whistles at all afraid, and did not see even fateful
expression of the eyes of former acting governor of Tarragona. What had happened? The boiler
of the tug, having no more relief than the nose, broke out with horrible noise.

- Listen, rude, dirty, cynical, earless! - Roared D. Peregrin catching by the neck the deformed and
shaking with rage .-- If you continue in this way annoying Madam, with this hand (holding the
right) give a slap on the cheek, and with the other (Holding the left) will give you another slap
in the opposite direction. Continuous act will come back to you, and with these boots fat you see
here I give you two kicks in the butt.

Physicist D. Peregrin was no purpose to instill panic in the heart
of enemies.

However, severe and administrative continent as few and the voice stream great that nature endow
him pretty well made up for the deficiency of other organs. In addition, Osuna was to be weaker
and more wretched than he. For this and the uproar that ensued then, instead of coping, slipped
into the crowd and disappeared in a time. Ms Theodora, to be the subject of public curiosity,
she fainted. D. Juan and the Maiden sustained it. D. Peregrin kept
shouting at his enemy away.

The crowd laughed, cried, stirred noisily. At last all was peace, and returned to his buxom
prudish home where we will spread a flood of tears.

Obdulia, busy all day by a sharp pain and a rabid desire to redress injustice had been committed
to his beloved spiritual director, did not leave home or bed. Was really sick. Had a fever,
the fever that occurs in the temperament like hers a single thought to be exacerbated by degrees.
At night he got up and dressed hastily. Her large blue circles are now marked in a way shocking.
A Wrinkle deep, unshakable resolution sign, he furrowed his brow. She called the maid and said
he wanted to go out and see the fireworks.

All it did to dissuade her, by representing the serious damage that could cause the cold and damp
night, it was useless. He took the blanket, threw it over the head with convulsive hand, forced
to be domestic hers and took to the streets. The Field of boiling and people fainting. It took
a lot further work to be placed in the middle. Obdulia wanted at all costs approach the house the
pastor, where he was staying prelate. He had seen it shining glasses and hide immediately in one
window. Below, on the very doorstep of the rectory, a large group giraldilla girls danced, singing
as loud improvised couplets of circumstances at the time. Them alluded to the new church, compliments
to the Bishop, the Governor, Peñascosa the founding fathers, without missing either, of course,
the usual little stitch to Sarria.

The imagination of Osuna's daughter worked tirelessly to increase the fever that consumed her.
But over a thousand thoughts and ghosts circling it, sticking out an idea fixed, stubborn,
who unwittingly drove his way with his elbows through the crowd, followed by the maid, who did
not understand the desire of his lady. When they were coming to the rectory, she stopped a few minutes.
Observed from the corner of the eye to her maid, and when he saw more absorbed in the contemplation
of the fires that were burning, maneuvered skillfully and moved away
from her hiding among the people.

Once alone, he stopped again. After conducting countless looks of anxiety and fear of the priest's
house after met more than twenty times and to repent so many, finally slipped like a shadow behind
the girls dancing and having a circle of spectators around, and entered the door of the house. Inside
it had a few servants who talked looking from there they could. Was wide open, and Obdulia,
without saying word was introduced by her and climbed a few stairs. But stopping suddenly and
remaining an indecisive moment, turned to lower them and went to the group home.

- Is the secretary of the bishop's up? - Asked to nearest.

- D. Cayetano? ... Yes, ma'am, is up - said one of the most distant.

- Could you speak a word with him?

- Why not? ... I will tell ... Go up with me.

Rose both in the dirty step D. Miguel, as neither by the arrival of
the prelate had cleared.

- Have the kindness to wait a moment.

Appeared shortly after the secretary, a middle-aged cleric, ugly, ungainly, but look smart and
outspoken.

He looked with great curiosity and asked, trying to appear friendly:

-
You ask me, ma'am?

- Yes, sir.

- You tell me ...

- I talk to the
bishop.

The secretary looked at her more curiously still, and after a moment's
hesitation, appearing on her face a hint of a smile, replied:

- You
understand that the time is appropriate ... Your Excellency is going
to retire soon to rest ...

- It is urgent and very important I have
to tell ...-- said abruptly.

Again looked at the priest with penetrating eyes, noticing her agitation.

-
Well ... What I can do is tell your gift to His Grace ... Do not answer
that you receive it at this time ... Can you pass this room and wait
a moment.

No take to bring the answer.

He opened the door of the boudoir of receipt, he brought a lamp and
left her alone.

At that moment She felt that leaving all his strength. The heart started pounding him chest.
The room was moving slowly as the chamber of a vessel.

Was forced to be held with both hands on the back of a chair for
not coming to the floor.

Secretary appeared within minutes, without crossing the door frame,
said with affected solemnity

- Your Excellency will arrive at this
time.

Obdulia closed her eyes and gripped more tightly to the chair.

When he opened them before him him the towering figure of the prelate.

The room was half-lit because of the screen that covered the lamp. Contours of that figure
faded into the shadows. But diamonds sparkled pectoral and glass lenses also shone the faint
rays of light on them fell. Advanced a few steps down the hall. Obdulia dropped to his knees.

- Is it for a matter of conscience, my daughter - the prelate asked him sweetly, giving at the
same time to kiss his ring.

- Yes, sir - the young voice replied with emotion altered .-- It is for a matter of conscience of
His Excellency.

- About my conscience? - Said the bishop, rising slowly and dropping on it a look of surprise
and curiosity.

- The pure consciousness, His Excellency knows better than me, is
subject to error.

When believe we are doing good do evil. The Soul of Your Grace is noble and holy, according to
all who know her.

For something God has chosen to shepherd his flock. But the eyes of His Excellency does not
reach all parts as those of God. His arm is extended in vain to bless. The blessing does not reach
everyone. Among the pastors that His Excellency is positioned to help the need to keep faithful
and love the flock, there are also with the light and love fixed upon themselves ...

- Get you, my dear ... What do you mean by this?

- What I tell you, sir - Osuna's daughter uttered boldly, suddenly
sobering under the impulse of exaltation - is that we had in this
town a zealous coadjutor, model self-denial, humility, duty, who had
made immense sacrifices to force inspire devotion and piety to the
many who never had felt that without any violence had arranged the
parish and returned to God what belonged to him ... Well, I known
... we learned with pain all the faithful, instead of letting him
in the position that performed in the interim, Your Excellency has
given it to someone else ...

The bishop gazed in silence for a space.

The young woman under his gaze, which passed by penetrating glass lenses, inquisitive, lost
again serenity.

- Is the interim coadjutor who sends you to address a representation? - Asked with extreme calm,
stressing each syllable in a way that was epigrammatic.

- Oh! No, sir - all troubled the girl exclaimed, turning red .-- Mr.
coadjutor not has no suction.

He is so happy with the job and without it. Nothing I know or anything you know ... It was I
who by hate injustice inspires me I dared to take this step ... perhaps
unwisely ...

- No case!

No chance! - Murmured the prelate, shaking his head.

Quedósela again staring without blinking, absorbed in intense contemplation. Obdulia lowered
his head.

- My daughter - she went on gravely, - youth has its rights.

You may be dazed, forethought as enjoyable without the gifts that
God has favored us, living obfuscated without the thought of sin ...
But youth is not entitled to play for our salvation eternal, life
and death.

The Holy Catholic Church has its ministers to ensure the faith. I, though unworthy, I am one
of them and I am responsible before God and Supreme Pontiff of my
actions.

I have not learned any Pope or any decretal prelates that we had to account for them girls like
you ...

- Oh, my lord ... I did not want! ...

- Listen, you listen with patience, my dear, I heard you on your knees to your bishop.

Obdulia knelt again full of confusion, as red as a poppy.

The portly figure be enlarged enormously from the bishop before his
eyes, his white hair crowned purple skull shining majesty.

- The
offices of the Catholic Church should not be coveted jobs: not searched
accepted with humility and resignation.

The higher, harder and thorn is for those who want to serve God. You, speaking of injustice,
has apparently seen as a means of gain, and sinned grievously. If I have not given the post
of coadjutor to the person for whom you interest, that person should
thank me because I have fought many terrible responsibilities that
hamper their eternal salvation.

Obdulia, watching the lightning march again towards his confessor, found words to deflect.

- Again I say, my lord, Gil's father knows nothing of this happened ... to die of sorrow and shame
if it comes to know, because it is the modesty and humility personified.

The estimation and respect that teachers, like all residents of this
village, and my desire to see the parish in order and well served,
I drove in a moment of levity to go His Grace ...

- But do not you
understand, my dear, that in taking this step, unusual in a young
wise and pious you commit yourself, and what is worse, you commit
yourself to a priest seriously?

- Oh Holy Virgin!

What have I done? - Said the girl covered her face with her hands .-- Yes yes, I understand
now that I've been a fool, than trying to do good I have done a terrible bad ... His Excellency
and rightly despises me because I'm just a poor dumb ... But is not that bad ... The horrible
thing is that from now on will be warned against poor fool ... Jesus in my heart, what temptation
was mine! ...

She broke into sobs madly muttering unintelligible phrases.

The bishop leaned her and spoke softly.

- Sosiéguese you, my dear. Sosiéguese you and learn that a successor of the Apostles did not
prevention may feel no hatred. If you have sinned, ask for absolution from his confessor. Serénese
you, no punishment has caused more than herself ... Neither the innocent
and the guilty are nothing to fear from me.

I fear that all of God ...

After asking many times for forgiveness and shed countless tears, kissed her again with Obdulia
devotion ring prelate, and rose. Without raising his eyes from the ground muttered weakly

- Goodbye, Mr. Bishop.

Excuse me Your Excellency the disgust that I have caused, and forget it.

- May the Blessed Virgin protect you, my child.

Say a save for me, well I need it - answered The prelate, letting go and looking at her expression of
shame until it broke through the door.

Left stunned, mad with shame, his hands trembling and her cheeks flushed.

As came home got into bed with a raging fever.

XI

Already guessed the riddle, father Gil - said D. Álvaro from his chair
when he saw him enter.

The smile that accompanied these words was so surprised that was contracted and cold.

       

- What enigma? - Asked P. Gil, a little shaken by the presentiment of some misfortune.

- Do not be frightened, not that of Creation: an enigma more modest, the coming of my Peñascosa
woman a few months ago ... Know you this letter.

The young priest took from the hands of primogeniture which presented
itself and began to read:

* * * * *

"My dear Alvaro: I know that
Joaquina gave birth six days ago a child, which enrolled in the parish
and civil registration with your name.

I have tried to inform me and they said it was perfectly legitimate,
since your wife has been in Peñascosa few months ago and has stayed
in your own home.

       I write in haste to ask if true.

I doubt it, because I've never said a word about it. Answer me immediately.

JULY.

"

* * * * *

Fr Gil dropped his arms, bent his head and muttered hoarsely:

- What a disgrace!

The mayorazgo laughed.

- But do you think there is still infamous in the world? What works for you much as it has read?
I want to tell me how it is possible to crap in a toilet. For Apparently, you are still attending
the first performance of the comedy.

I am in the second, and I can say in advance what will happen.

- Anyway, D. Álvaro, it hurts in the soul is unworthy that you have made without merit.

- Indignity? Do you call the spider outraged that drowns the poor flies in his web, or milano
falling on the innocent chick and grabs the air?

For the same force infamous (Now that's the infamous!), The same force that moves the spider
and the dove is the living inside my wife. The fly, chicken and I deserve the same fate for
being born. Because felony - the man is being born, has already said Calderon, who was a priest
like you.

Fr Gil thought for a moment and said at last, as if speaking to himself:

-
I can not quite persuade us that there is more than blind force, that
light occasionally shines in the hearts of men, and sometimes called
justice others love and devotion, depend exclusively on chemical combinations.
Is infamy infamy always in our minds and awakens a feeling of disgust.
The Spider and the Kite not that they do evil, but his wife knows.

-
What does it matter? Empower you to the beast with an awareness of
their actions and you will be formed man. Consciousness is not just
a torch. The same crimes can be executed in darkness than light. If
I thought like you there is a God conscious creator of all beings,
we send a "kissing hand" praising him for having been a child so kind
and lovely as my wife and thanking her for having reserved for me
particular application.

When legal forms had taken shape, the land upon which a town stood was not unusually granted
to the mayor and commonalty by metes and bounds, [Footnote: See Charter of Plymouth, granted
1439. History of Plymouth, p. 50. The incorporation was by statute.] to them and their successors
forever, upon payment of a rent; and the mayor and common council were empowered to make laws
and ordinances for the local government, and to fine, imprison, and sometimes whip and otherwise
punish offenders, so as their statutes, fines, pains, and penalties were reasonable and not
repugnant to law. [Footnote: History of Tiverton, App. 5.] The foreign trading company was
an offshoot of the guild, and was intended to protect commerce. Obviously some such organization
must have been necessary, for, if property was insecure within the realm, it was far more exposed
without; and, indeed, in the fourteenth century, English merchants domiciled on the Continent
could hardly have been safer than Europeans are now who garrison the so-called factories upon
the coast of Africa.

At the Conquest, the Hanse merchants had a house in London, which was afterward famous as the
Steel Yard. They lived a strange life,--a combination of that of the trader, the soldier, and
the monk. Their fortified warehouse, exposed to the attacks of the ferocious mob, was occasionally
taken and sacked; and the garrison shut up within was subject to an iron discipline. They were
forbidden to marry, no woman passed the gates, nor did they ever sleep a night without the
walls; but, always on the watch, they lay in their cells ready to repulse a storm. For many
years these Germans seem to have monopolized the carrying trade, for it was not till the thirteenth
century that Englishmen appear to have made an effort at competition. However, about 1296 certain
London mercers are said to have obtained a grant of privileges from John, Duke of Brabant,
and to have established a wool market at Antwerp. [Footnote: Andersen's History of Commerce.]
The recognition of the Flemish government was of course necessary; but they could hardly have
maintained themselves without some support at home; for, although their warehouse was abroad,
they were English merchants, and they must have relied upon English protection. No very early
documents remain; but an elaborate charter, granted by Edward IV. in 1463, proves that the
corporation had then had a long legal existence. [Footnote: Hakluyt's Voyages, i. 230.] The
crown thereby confirmed one Obrey, the governor, in his office during pleasure, with the wages
theretofore enjoyed; existing laws were approved; the governor and merchants were empowered
to elect twelve Justicers, who were to hold courts for all merchants and mariners in those
parts; and the company was authorized to regulate the trade and control the traders, provided
no laws were passed contrary to the intent of that charter.

Here, as in the Merchant Guild, the inevitable aristocratic revolution took place, and the
old democratic brotherhood became a strict monopoly. The oppression was so flagrant that a
petition was presented to Parliament in 1497 against the exactions of the Merchant Adventurers,
as the association was then called, by which it appeared that interlopers, trading to Holland
and Flanders, were fined L40, whereas any subject might have become a freeman in earlier times
for an old noble, or about 6s. 8d.; [Footnote: 12 Henry VII. ch. vi.] and the scandal was so
great that the fine was fixed at 10 marks, or L6 l3s. 4d., by statute. During the stagnation
of the Middle Ages few traces of such commercial enterprises are to be found, but with the
sixteenth century Europe awoke to a new life and thrilled with a new energy. Trade shared in
the impulse. In 1554 Philip and Mary incorporated the Russia Company in regular modern form;
in 1581 the Turkey Company was organized; in 1600 the East India Company received its charter;
and, to come directly to what is material, in 1629 Charles I. signed the patent of the Governor
and Company of Massachusetts Bay in New England.

Stripped of its verbiage, the provisions are simple. The stockholders, or "freemen," as they
were then called, were to meet once a quarter in a "General Court." This General Court, or
stockholders' meeting, chose the officers, of which there were twenty, the governor, deputy
governor, and eighteen assistants or directors, on the last Wednesday in each Easter Term.
The assistants were intrusted with the business management, and were to meet once a month or
oftener; while the General Court was empowered to admit freemen, and "to make laws and ordinances
for the good and welfare of the said company, and for the government and ordering of the said
lands and plantation, and the people inhabiting and to inhabit the same, as to them from time
to time shall be thought meet,--so as such laws and ordinances be not contrary or repugnant
to the laws and statutes of this our realm of England." The criminal jurisdiction was limited
to the "imposition of lawful fines, mulcts, imprisonment, or other lawful correction, according
to the course of other corporations in this our realm of England."

The "course of corporations" referred to was well established. The Master and Wardens of the
Guild of Drapers in London, for example, could make "such ... pains, punishments, and penalties,
by corporal punishment, or fines and amercements," ... "as shall seem ... necessary," provided
their statutes were reasonable and not contrary to the laws of the kingdom. [Footnote: Herbert's
Livery Companies, i. 489.] In like manner, boroughs such as Tiverton might "impose and assess
punishments by imprisonments, etc., and reasonable fines upon offenders." [Footnote: See History
of Tiverton, App. 5.]

But all lawyers knew that such grants did not convey full civil or criminal jurisdiction, which,
when thought needful, was specially conferred, as was done in the case of the East India Company
upon their petition in 1624, [Footnote: Bruce, Annals, i. 252.] and in that of Massachusetts
by the charter of William and Mary.

Such was the undoubted theory, and evidently there must always have been some practical means
of checking the abuse of power by these strong organizations. In semi-barbarous ages the sovereign
took matters into his own hands by seizing the franchise, and even the Plantagenets repeatedly
suspended or revoked the liberties of London,--often, no doubt, for cause, but sometimes also
to make money by a resale; and a succession of these arbitrary forfeitures demonstrated that
charters to be of value must be beyond the grantor's control. Resort was had to the courts,
as a matter of course, and finally it was settled that relief should be given by a writ of
quo warranto, upon which the question of the violation of privileges could be tried; and curious
records still remain of ancient litigations of this nature.

In 1321 complaint was made against the London Weavers for injuring the public by passing regulations
tending to raise the price of cloth. [Footnote: Liber Customarum, i. 416-424.] It was alleged
that the guild, with this intent, had limited the working hours in the day, the working days
in the year, and the number of apprentices the freemen might employ; and the prayer was that
for these abuses the charter should be annulled.

The cause was tried before a jury, who found the truth of some of the charges; but the judgment
is lost, as the roll is imperfect.

There was danger, moreover, to the citizen from the oppression of these powerful bodies, as
well as to the public from their usurpations; and were authority wholly wanting, argument would
be almost unnecessary to prove that some appellate tribunal must always have had jurisdiction
to pass upon the validity of corporate legislation; for otherwise any summary punishment might
have been inflicted upon an individual, though notoriously unlawful, and the only redress possible
would have been subsequent proceedings to vacate the charter.

Through appeals, corporations could be controlled; and by none was this control so stubbornly
disputed, or its necessity so clearly demonstrated, as by the Governor and Company of Massachusetts
Bay in New England. A good illustration is the trial of the Quaker, Wenlock Christison, for
his life in 1661.

"William Leddra being thus dispatch'd, it was resolved to make an end also of Wenlock Christison.
He therefore was brought from the prison to the court at Boston, where the governor John Indicot,
and the deputy governor Richard Billingham, being both present, it was told him, 'Unless you
will renounce your religion, you shall surely die.' But instead of shrinking, he said with
an undaunted courage, 'Nay, I shall not change my religion, nor seek to save my life; neither
do I intend to deny my Master; but if I lose my life for Christ's sake, and the preaching of
the gospel, I shall save my life.' ... John Indicot asked him 'what he had to say for himself,
why he should not die?' ... Then Wenlock asked, 'By what law will you put me to death?' The
answer was, 'We have a law, and by our law you are to die.' 'So said the Jews of Christ,' (reply'd
Wenlock) 'we have a law, and by our law he ought to die. Who empowered you to make that law?'
To which one of the board answered, 'We have a patent, and are the patentees; judge whether
we have not power to make laws.' Hereupon Wenlock asked again, 'How, have you power to make
laws repugnant to the laws of England?' 'No,' said the governor. 'Then,' (reply'd Wenlock,)
'you are gone beyond your bounds, and have forfeited your patent; and that is more than you
can answer.' 'Are you,' ask'd he, 'subjects to the king, yea or nay?' ... To which one said,
'Yea, we are so.' 'Well,' said Wenlock, 'so am I.' ... 'Therefore seeing that you and I are
subjects to the king, I demand to be tried by the laws of my own nation.' It was answered,
'You shall be tried by a bench and a jury.' For it seems they began to be afraid to go on in
the former course, of trial without a jury ... But Wenlock said, 'That is not the law, but
the manner of it; for I never heard nor read of any law that was in England to hang Quakers.'
To this the governor reply'd 'that there was a law to hang Jesuits.' To which Wenlock return'd,
'If you put me to death, it is not because I go under the name of a Jesuit, but of a Quaker.
Therefore, I appeal to the laws of my own nation.' But instead of taking notice of this, one
said 'that he was in their hands, and had broken their law, and they would try him.'" [Footnote:
Sewel, pp. 278, 279.]

Yet, though the ecclesiastical party in Massachusetts obstinately refused to admit appeals
to the British judiciary up to the last moment of their power, for the obvious reason that
the existence of the theocracy depended upon the enforcement of such legislation as that under
which the Quakers suffered, there was no principle in the whole range of English jurisprudence
more firmly established. By a statute of Henry VI. passed in 1436, corporate enactments were
to be submitted to the judges for approval; and the Court of King's Bench always set aside
such as were bad, whenever the question of their validity was presented for adjudication. [Footnote:
Stat. 15 H. VI. ch. 6. Stat 19 H. VII. ch. 7. Clark's Case, 5 Coke, 633, decided A. D. 1596.
See Kyd on Corporations, ii. 107-110, where authorities are collected. Child v. Hudson Bay
Co., 2 P. W. 207.]

But discussion is futile; the proposition is self-evident, that an association endowed with
the capacity of acting like a single man, for certain defined objects, which shall attempt
other objects, or shall seek to compass its ends by unlawful means, violates the condition
upon which its life has been granted, transcends the limits of its existence, and forfeits
its privileges; and that under such circumstances its ordinances are void, and none are bound
to yield them their obedience.

Approached thus from the standpoint of legal history, no doubt can exist concerning the scope
of the franchise secured by the Puritans for the Massachusetts colony. The instrument obtained
from Charles I. embodied certain of their number in an English corporation, whose only lawful
business was the American trade, as the business of the East India Company was trade in Hindostan.
To enable them to act effectively, a tract of land in New England, between the Merrimack and
the Charles, was conveyed to them, as the soil upon which a town stood was conveyed to the
mayor and commonalty. Within this territory they were authorized to established their plantations
and forts, which they were empowered to defend against attack, as the Hanse merchants defended
the Steel Yard in London. They were also permitted to govern the country within their grant
by reasonable regulations calculated to preserve the peace, and of much the same character
as the municipal ordinances of towns, subject, of course, to judicial supervision. The corporation
itself was created subject to the municipal laws of England, and could have no existence without
the realm; and though perhaps even then the American wilderness might have been held to belong
to the British empire, it formed no part of the kingdom, [Footnote: Blackstone's Commentaries,
i. 109.] and was altogether beyond the limits of that jurisdiction from whose customs and statutes
the life of this imaginary being sprang. Therefore, the governing body could legally exercise
its functions only when domiciled in some English town. [Footnote: On this subject see the
able paper of Mr. Deane, in Massachusetts Historical Society Proceedings, December, 1869, p. 166.]

Sir Richard Sheldon, the solicitor-general, advised the king that he was signing a charter
containing "such ... clauses for ye electing of Governors and Officers here in England, ...
and powers to make lawes and ordinances for setling ye governement and magistracye for ye plantacon
there, ... as ... are usuallie allowed to Corporacons in England." [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Soc.
Proc. 1869-70, p. 173.] And there can be no question that his opinion was sound.

Nothing can be imagined more ill-suited to serve as the organic law of a new commonwealth than
this instrument. No provision was made for superior or probate courts, for a representative
assembly, for the incorporation of counties and towns, for police or taxation. In short, hardly
a step could be taken toward founding a territorial government based upon popular suffrage
without working a forfeiture of the charter by abuse of the franchise. The colonists, it is
true, afterward advanced very different theories of construction; but that they were well aware
of their legal position is demonstrated by the fact that after some hesitation from apprehension
of consequences, they ventured on the singularly bold and lawless measure of secretly removing
their charter to America and establishing their corporation in a land which they thought would
be beyond the process of Westminster Hall. Since then, neither
a moment's hesitation, more and more convinced every day that this world was worthless, and
that out of this world had to wait otherwise. Death of his father and confessed with remorse not sorry.
Treat anxiety and breathed the air of freedom. There was a time when Life seemed less horrible,
the world had for him a sweet smile. It was when the well filled pocket, he went to Madrid.
First science offered comfort and entertainment. Caught up with avidity the latest ideas in philosophy, history,
science natural alternated, discussed with the most eminent men of Spain. And he had the satisfaction
to observe that there in his solitude of rocks, meditating on the ancient books had reached
the same results as the modern philosophers. Then came love, a dream sweet and heady, pungent
and divine music that was suspended some time on misery of the land, which reconciled him
to life and woke up in their hearts the hope infinite the illusion of immortal bliss. The
fall of that world of light, happy, smiling, was Cruel indeed, one of the blackest pages in recorded
history of mankind, where there are so black! ...

- By the way - leaving said his ecstasy painful skeletal hand from
the front - I've had enough time to seriously those things that you
believe.

I had a hard time pain, many sleepless nights, many tears separate from them. Let me return
you so many tears I laugh a little now.

- So - said the priest shaking badly repressed - that, forgetting
entirely beliefs you sucked, the holy religion of their parents, declaring
you an enemy of God ...

- Yes, sir, the enemy of God and men ...
That is, unfortunately I can not God so, does not exist.

If there is, judging by his work, God would be a good evil. Can not be of God, I am of the men not
to harm but to flee them as they flee from the ferocious beasts.

Since I was born I have been experiencing many pain. However, I never tried to get back at them
because I know they are evil because it has created Nature or Fate, they hurt as do the beasts,
for selfishness that rages within every living being. The world is organized to devour beings
to each other. What happens between fish passes among men, only that we do not open your mouth
and swallow us hit the victim, which, after all, is an advantage for her, but we're eating
small bites, ripping the flesh until it a skeleton ... Can not you see me for me? - Added with
a smile on his face fierce pointing .-- The I have eaten fish that get it. I have left nothing
but bones.

Fr Gil, more and more terrified, dared to ask:

- And you think that there is on earth no man righteous, no virtuous
woman?

- Yes there are, but they are exceptional products of nature,
rather, are aberrations a body set up to evil.

Good men suffer the consequences of any aberration; can not survive.

 A major-general was elected who commanded the
militia, and in 1652 money was coined.

The social institutions, however, have a keener interest, for they reflect that strong cast
of thought which has stamped its imprint deep into the character of so much of the American
people. The seventeenth century was aristocratic, and the inhabitants of the larger part of
New England were divided into three classes, the commonalty, the gentry, and the clergy. Little
need be said of the first, except that they were a brave and determined race, as ready to fight
as Cromwell's saints, who made Rupert's troopers "as stubble to their swords;" that they were
intelligent, and would not brook injustice; and that they were resolute, and would not endure
oppression. All know that they were energetic and shrewd.

The gentry had the weight in the community that comes with wealth and education, and they received
the deference then paid to birth, for they were for the most part the descendants of English
country-gentlemen. As a matter of course they monopolized the chief offices; and they were
not sentenced by the courts to degrading punishments, like whipping, for their offences, as
other criminals were. They even showed some wish at the outset to create legal distinctions,
such as a magistracy for life, and a disposition to magnify the jurisdiction of the Court of
Assistants, whose seats they filled; but the action of the people was determined though quiet,
a chamber of deputies was chosen, and such schemes were heard of no more.

Yet notwithstanding the existence of this aristocratic element, the real substance of influence
and power lay with the clergy. It has been taught as an axiom of Massachusetts history, that
from the outset the town was the social and political unit; but an analysis of the evidence
tends to show that the organization of the Puritan Commonwealth was ecclesiastical, and the
congregation, not the town, the basis upon which the fabric rested. By the constitution of
the corporation the franchise went with the freedom of the company; but in order to form a
constituency which would support a sacerdotal oligarchy, it was enacted in 1631 "that for time
to come noe man shalbe admitted to the freedome of this body polliticke, but such as are members
of some of the churches within ... the same." [Footnote: Mass. Records, i. 87.] Thus though
communicants were not necessarily voters, no one could be a voter who was not a communicant;
therefore the town-meeting was in fact nothing but the church meeting, possibly somewhat attenuated,
and called by a different name. By this insidious statute the clergy seized the temporal power,
which they held till the charter fell. The minister stood at the head of the congregation and
moulded it to suit his purposes and to do his will; for though he could not when opposed admit
an inhabitant to the sacrament, he could peremptorily exclude therefrom all those of whom he
disapproved, for "none are propounded to the congregation, except they be first allowed by
the elders." [Footnote: Winthrop's reply to Vane, Hutch. Coll., Prince Soc. ed. i. 101.] In
such a community the influence of the priesthood must have been overwhelming. Not only in an
age without newspapers or tolerable roads were their sermons, preached several times each week
to every voter, the most effective of political harangues; but, unlike other party orators,
they were not forced to stimulate the sluggish, or to convince the hostile, for from a people
glowing with fanaticism, each elder picked his band of devoted servants of the church, men
passionately longing to do the will of Christ, whose commands concerning earth and heaven their
pastor had been ordained to declare. Nor was their power bounded by local limits; though seldom
holding office themselves, they were solemnly consulted by the government on every important
question that arose, whether of war or peace, and their counsel was rarely disregarded. They
gave their opinion, no matter how foreign the subject might be to their profession or their
education; and they had no hesitation in passing upon the technical construction of the charter
with the authority of a bench of judges. An amusing example is given by Winthrop: "The General
Court assembled again, and all the elders were sent for, to reconcile the differences between
the magistrates and deputies. When they were come the first question put to them was, ... whether
the magistrates are, by patent and election of the people, the standing council of this commonwealth
in the vacancy of the General Court, and have power accordingly to act in all cases subject
to government, according to the said patent and the laws of this jurisdiction; and when any
necessary occasions call for action from authority, in cases where there is no particular express
law provided, there to be guided by the word of God, till the General Court give particular
rules in such cases. The elders, having received the question, withdrew themselves for consultation
about it, and the next day sent to know, when we would appoint a time that they might attend
the court with their answer. The magistrates and deputies agreed upon an hour "and ... their
answer was affirmative, on the magistrates behalf, in the very words of the question, with
some reasons thereof. It was delivered in writing by Mr. Cotton in the name of them all, they
being all present, and not one dissentient." Then the magistrates propounded four more questions,
the last of which is as follows: "Whether a judge be bound to pronounce such sentence as a
positive law prescribes, in case it be apparently above or beneath the merit of the offence?"
To which the elders replied at great length, saying that the penalty must vary with the gravity
of the crime, and added examples: "So any sin committed with an high hand, as the gathering
of sticks on the Sabbath day, may be punished with death when a lesser punishment may serve
for gathering sticks privily and in some need." [Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 204, 205.] Yet though
the clerical influence was so unbounded the theocracy itself was exposed to constant peril.
In monarchies such as France or Spain the priests who rule the king have the force of the nation
at command to dispose of at their will; but in Massachusetts a more difficult problem was presented,
for the voters had to be controlled. By the law requiring freemen to be church-members the
elders meant to grasp the key to the suffrage, but experience soon proved that more stringent
regulation was needed.

According to the original Congregational theory each church was complete and independent, and
elected its own officers and conducted its own worship, free from interference from without,
except that others of the same communion might offer advice or admonition. Under the theocracy
no such loose system was possible, for heresy might enter in three different ways; first, under
the early law, "blasphemers" might form a congregation and from thence creep into the company;
second, an established church might fall into error; third, an unsound minister might be chosen,
who would debauch his flock by securing the admission of sectaries to the sacrament. Above
all, a creed was necessary by means of which false doctrine might be instantly detected and
condemned. Accordingly, one by one, as the need for vigilance increased, laws were passed to
guard these points of danger.

First, in 1635 it was enacted, [Footnote: 1635-6, March 3.] "Forasmuch as it hath bene found
by sad experience, that much trouble and disturbance hath happened both to the church & civill
state by the officers & members of some churches, which have bene gathered ... in an vndue
manner ... it is ... ordered that ... this Court doeth not, nor will hereafter, approue of
any such companyes of men as shall henceforthe ioyne in any pretended way of church fellowshipp,
without they shall first acquainte the magistrates, & the elders of the greater parte of the
churches in this jurisdiction, with their intenctions, and have their approbaction herein.
And ffurther, it is ordered, that noe person, being a member of any churche which shall hereafter
be gathered without the approbaction of the magistrates, & the greater parte of the said churches,
shallbe admitted to the ffreedome of this commonwealthe." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. i. 168.]

In 1648 all the elders met in a synod at Cambridge; they adopted the Westminster Confession
of Faith and an elaborate "Platform of Church Discipline," the last clause of which is as follows:
"If any church ... shall grow schismatical, rending itself from the communion of other churches,
or shall walk incorrigibly and obstinately in any corrupt way of their own contrary to the
rule of the word; in such case the magistrate, ... is to put forth his coercive power, as the
matter shall require." [Footnote: Magnalia, bk. 5, ch. xvii. Section 9.]

In 1658 the General Court declared: "Whereas it is the duty of the Christian magistrate to
take care the people be fed with wholesome & sound doctrine, & in this houre of temptation,
... it is therefore ordered, that henceforth no person shall ... preach to any company of people,
whither in church society or not, or be ordeyned to the office of a teaching elder, where any
two organnick churches, councill of state, or Generall Court shall declare theire dissatisfaction
thereat, either in refference to doctrine or practize... and in case of ordination... timely
notice thereof shall be given unto three or fower of the neighbouring organicke churches for
theire approbation." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. iv. pt. 1, p. 328.] And lastly, in 1679, the building
of meeting-houses was forbidden, without leave from the freemen of the town or the General
Court. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 213.]

But legislation has never yet controlled the action of human thought. All experience shows
that every age, and every western nation, produces men whose nature it is to follow the guidance
of their reason in the face of every danger. To exterminate these is the task of religious
persecution, for they can be silenced only by death. Thus is a dominant priesthood brought
face to face with the alternative, of surrendering its power or of killing the heretic, and
those bloody deeds that cast their sombre shadow across the history of the Puritan Commonwealth
cannot be seen in their true bearing unless the position of the clergy is vividly before the mind.

Cromwell said that ministers were "helpers of, not lords over, God's people," [Footnote: Cromwell
to Dundass, letter cxlviii. Carlyle's Cromwell, iii. 72.] but the orthodox New Englander was
the vassal of his priest. Winthrop was the ablest and the most enlightened magistrate the ecclesiastical
party ever had, and he tells us that "I honoured a faithful minister in my heart and could
have kissed his feet." [Footnote: Life and Letters of Winthrop, i. 61.] If the governor of
Massachusetts and the leader of the emigration could thus describe his moral growth,--a man
of birth, education, and fortune, who had had wide experience of life, and was a lawyer by
profession,--the awe and terror felt by the mass of the communicants can be imagined.

Jonathan Mitchel, one of the most famous of the earlier divines, thus describes his flock:
"They were a gracious, savoury-spirited people, principled by Mr. Shepard, liking an humbling,
mourning, heart-breaking ministry and spirit; living in religion, praying men and women." And
"he would speak with such a transcendent majesty and liveliness, that the people ... would
often shake under his dispensations, as if they had heard the sound of the trumpets from the
burning mountain, and yet they would mourn to think, that they were going presently to be dismissed
from such an heaven upon earth." ... "When a publick admonition was to be dispensed unto any
one that had offended scandalously... the hearers would be all drowned in tears, as if the
admonition had been, as indeed he would with much artifice make it be directed unto them all;
but such would be the compassion, and yet the gravity, the majesty, the scriptural and awful
pungency of these his dispensations, that the conscience of the offender himself, could make
no resistance thereunto." [Footnote: Magnalia, bk. 4, ch. iv. Sub-section 9, 10.]

Their arrogance was fed by the submission of the people, and they would not tolerate the slightest
opposition even from their most devoted retainers. The Reforming Synod was held in 1679. "When
the report of a committee on 'the evils that had provoked the Lord' came up for consideration,
'Mr. Wheelock declared that there was a cry of injustice in that magistrates and ministers
were not rated' (taxed), 'which occasioned a very warm discourse. When he left, returned to his espionage remained on the stairs very long time without knowing
why he did that. She heard the confused murmur of conversation and his wife Dolores. The girl
was chattering; Joaquin also had an expansive mood: the talk increasingly encouraged. So it
figured to see some happy laughter of his wife, that surprised him most indignant. At last
he noticed that he began to eat. Dolores was and came with the dishes. Finished dinner. The
maid stood in the dining room and continued talk. Tired of standing, sat in one of the rungs
of the ladder. In doing felt ashamed and began to give some vague account of the emotions that
seize your mind. Waited a long time that way, feeling the confused murmur of voices, in which nothing
could distinguish, or even what it was that of his wife and which is the maid. After observed
leaving the room. I still figured that his wife would use this occasion to go up to visit.
He stood strongly and prepared to get into his room as soon as felt footsteps on the stairs.
But he waited in vain. Mrs. Dolores went to blue cabinet. He felt the door close behind them, then
noticed that opened again and the maid came and took the path of his room. Undoubtedly helped to
strip the lady and left her in bed.

With his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees, stood motionless,
abstracted, only now hearing the voice of his thought and the beating
of his heart.

A lively spite, which would not notice him cruelly biting the bowels. I felt the need sighted with his
wife, insults, spitting, slapping her. Why was a moment had refused to receive it, and now yearned
to have it that way before? The thought mayorazgo it was because their hatred and indignation
had grown up. He did not know how long it stayed in this position. The desire to be in front of his
wife increasingly burned alive in his chest, made him restless, excited, it was becoming a fever,
an intense rage that devoured. Oh, having it in his hands, squeezing until he screams in pain,
make you suffer in the body that he had suffered in the soul! Hot iron spikes pricked him
by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down a choke with his forward, an
unbearable heat was rising from the legs to the brain. The darkness is thickening, wrapped him in
a warm atmosphere, suffocating, as if he were in a basement. There a moment he thought he could
not move, the members refused to obey numb at will. He made an effort, however, as if to break
a cloth to hold him, and stood up.

He walked unsteadily to his room. The light from the lamp burning on the table will hurt so that
was about to fall obfuscated. Apagola a breath, he fumbled the window and opened wide. A gust of
wind and water living struck him and penetrated his face roaring
the room, sending out the papers on the table.

D. Álvaro air inhaled with delight cold and wet, looked out the window and gave her burning forehead
to the inclement rain. Thousand Needles rain put out his cheeks and turned the bathed in tears completely.
For some minutes he enjoyed with delight of that cold, desirable that penetrate into the brain and
calm the chaotic activity. The night was dark. Despite the thick canopy of clouds, moonlight
and scattered managed to squeak through a weak and sad clarity. Only when a cloud black thicker
and she walked past downloading his load of water, light is almost completely extinguished. The
waves crashed against the rocks that serve as a bulwark to the Field of fainting. The wind
whistled through the cracks tower of the church. The mournful music of the raging elements calmed
down a little hidalgo fever.

Comforted by this drink, breathe freely, it was believed his own master. However, the few moments
the same desire sharp, burning, prick the brain again. Oh, to have before the infamous vomit
in the face of injuries to their pain and anger had built up for three years and then take
it by the neck and twisted!

One moment of pleasure compensate the torture he had experienced. One minute was worth an entire
lifetime pain. And why not enjoy it? Do not possessed the executioner of his happiness? Was not there
below, sleeping peacefully, while he was still shaking from cruel torture? He removed a bit of
the window and wiped his face with his handkerchief. He felt he was powerless to fight with
that appetite for revenge. His entire philosophy ruthless, indifferent, had gone under. The world
ceased to be a pure representation, it became undeniable reality, life took on the absolute value
that has to all be finite. Was forced, in spite of reason, to meet animal instincts screaming in
the background of our being. In vain, to calm down, it was said all those emotions that were worth
anything or meant in the eternal course of things, that within a very short time everything would
be smoke in vain represented the imbecility of human beings fighting and suffering in the holocaust
of a force that made fun of him. All your thoughts crashed into a powerful desire, irrational, he
dominated. The brute, as ever, was more than the philosopher.

He fumbled out, and leaning on the walls came up the stairs. Lowering the first step, his boots squeaked
in the silence of the house. Sentosa and emptied them. Then slid down without making a sound.
Without stumbling on the perfect knowledge of the house, walked through the corridors until
you reach the blue cabinet door.

At that moment the great clock in the dining room gave a bell. He did not know what time belonged
average. Put his ear to the keyhole and spent some time listening without perceiving sound. Undoubtedly
Joaquina was already asleep. Then the door slid into the chamber exhaust was in the hallway and returned
the ear. After a moment he heard the same breathing and serene. A shudder ran live all over
his body to perceive it. He felt a knot in throat, but a knot of fire: the heart wanted to jump
on the chest, placed his hands on him to turn off the sound of the heartbeat. The traitor was asleep
uncured him. "That desire for reconciliation was therefore a sham? "He came to look for money only?
How miserable! What a woman so hateful!

Using every possible precaution, lifted the latch on the door and pushed. Had pin thrown inside.
Then he went to the door of the cabinet. It was open. He walked around the room on tiptoe,
holding their breath, reached the bedroom and lifted the curtains. Went a step further and hit
the bed, put his hand on it and slid to the head.

He felt the pressure of his wife's body to swell with breathing. He pulled his face towards the
place where he must be the head of the lady and said very softly:

- Joaquina Joaquina.

He did not wake.

- Joaquina Joaquina - repeated.

Nor did any movement. Then gently shook his shoulder, calling it again.

The lady screamed and woke up terrified.

- Jesus!

Who is it? Who goes?

- Do not worry, me - he said weakly the estate.

- Who? Who? - Replied the lady, with signs of terror in his voice, leaning against the wall.

-
I, am Álvaro ... Mira - said in a trembling voice, - I know you've
come to make friends ... You did well ... Forget it all, start a new
life ...

The lady did not respond.

Tucked against the wall, heard his breathing still longing for shock.

- I made superhuman efforts to forget - continued with the same voice trembling off by emotion -
but they were useless ... You're stuck with iron and fire in my chest ... You have been my
first, my only love in this world ... I have done much damage, a lot! but even were to make me a
thousand times more, will not be erased from my soul, that heady moments that I owe you ... I love
you, yes, I love, I adore you! ... Although call me a coward, unworthy, I will repeat to face
the world ... If you knew how I suffered! It was not my dignity, my pride destroyed what made me
suffer ... My heart is what has been ... What a disappointment! What a sadness so deep! It
seemed as if a cold hand gently gather me the guts ... But it's all over ... Is not that already happened?
... We begin to love again, like that you later in my arms for the
first time in a street tree in the gardens Aranjuez ...

The same
silence from Joaquin.

- Answer me ... Have I scared, sweetheart?

Forgive me ... Why do not you come after that was the cure?

... You thought I was going to throw you? ... No, my precious ... no ... I love you, I adore
...

At the same time, extending his hands, ran with his wife, grabbed
her and took her lips with enthusiasm.

The lady promptly withdrew.

D. Alvaro was overwhelmed.

- Why did you withdraw your hand? ... Do not you tend to me mine, and I'm offended? ... Have
not you been be reconciled with me? ...

- Yes, yes, Álvaro - "she murmured .-- A so I came ... You scared me ...

- Forgive, Joaquina ... If you knew what happiness causes me hear
your voice!

I just never now, And ever! hear her again.

Will you be my wife? "- He added, lowering his voice, leaning to bring the mouth to the face
of the lady .-- Leave me a site next to you, beautiful ... Let me
be a happy night ...

- No, Álvaro, not now - gossip again tomorrow
.-- unfaithful wife ... Let me, I am very tired ... Let me see you
tomorrow ...

- Do not bother.

I encircle you can and sleep as quiet ...

- No, now can not be ... Morning.

- Why not? Will not you be my girl? Do not want to be happy again, as in those early months
of our marriage?

- Yes, I want ... But now I am very nervous ... I want to stay alone
... Tomorrow is another day, and I promise to be yours ... Here's
my hand ... Go to sleep, Álvaro ... Until tomorrow.

Montesinos sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed
against his lips, devoured it with kisses. Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting
for leave.

Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed
against his chest, crazy, lost love, crushing her lips with kisses
brutal, frantic.

The lady struggled fiercely to free herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

-
I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked as
I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

-
Go!

Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture: all faculties were wiped
out, broken by the shock and horror of the coup. No one felt more alive longing impression,
as if he had fallen from somewhere very high and was still air. The world disappeared in the
darkness, nothing existed in the darkness enveloped him, even his thoughts. There remained a
strident voice, fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go! Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left that stay. Found on the stairs clutching
tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried to coordinate their ideas.
Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight.

He tried to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but
his legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was
arrested. Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that
was holding were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying to find
matches or close the window.

It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without feeling
the cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and
off the head, unable to determine if the rumor that deafened and I
was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost all winter in rocks. Alzose
the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped in bed. Ramiro could not wake him
at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation, like death. He slept
in absolute immobility, eyes curved and densely pale face. When three o'clock in the afternoon
he went to the profound lethargy, knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care
of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant down the street, laughing nervously
for some time yet. But that faded after laugh.

He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway made his legs falter.

He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the couple who left there in
the Field of fainting. The fear of being noticed stopped her.

Although vague, it also gave account of the singular and reprehensible
behavior.

Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps of his confessor,
let alone reprimand?

His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed to repent. His mouth was dry, her cheeks were
burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the dock. I was already
alone.

The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want to go home: I needed to talk,
distracted. Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived. They
were accompanied by P. Norberto, which meant that he had calluses.

-
What stifled come, child! - Dona Eloisa said.

- Do not you know ...?
I come home alone from Ms Trinidad ... I come to dinner with you ...
But do me the favor of sending a message to dad.

She tried to appear
calm and cheerful.

- So alone, eh? Solita at eight in the evening
- said D. Martin jokingly.

- Oh, if you knew what was coming hectic!
... So few people walking down the street. At a time I found myself
alone, I ran until I found some women.

- What? Did you fear who took
it for one of those pigeons here Fr Norberto hunting with loop? -
turned to say D. Martin penthouse barracks humor.

The girl blushed
to the ears. And the struggles and the agony by which this
poor and isolated community freed itself from its gloomy bondage, the means by which it secularized
its education and its government, won for itself the blessing of free thought and speech, and
matured a system of constitutional liberty which has been the foundation of the American Union,
rise in dignity to one of the supreme efforts of mankind.

CHAPTER II.

THE ANTINOMIANS.

Habit may be defined with enough accuracy for ordinary purposes as the result of reflex action,
or the immediate response of the nerves to a stimulus, without the intervention of consciousness.
Many bodily functions are naturally reflex, and most movements may be made so by constant repetition;
they are then executed independently of the will. It is no exaggeration to say that the social
fabric rests on the control this tendency exerts over the actions of men; and its strength
is strikingly exemplified in armies, which, when well organized, are machines, wherein subjection
to command is instinctive, and insubordination, therefore, practically impossible.

An analogous phenomenon is presented by the church, whose priests have intuitively exhausted
their ingenuity in weaving webs of ceremonial, as soldiers have directed their energies to
perfecting manuals of arms; and the evidence leads to the conclusion that increasing complexity
of ritual indicates a densening ignorance and a deepening despotism. The Hindoos, the Spaniards,
and the English are types of the progression.

Within the historic ages unnumbered methods of sacerdotal discipline have been evolved, but
whether the means used to compass the end has been the bewildering maze of a Levitical code,
or the rosary and the confessional of Rome, the object has always been to reduce the devotee
to the implicit obedience of the trooper. And the stupendous power of these amazingly perfect
systems for destroying the capacity for original thought cannot be fully realized until the
mind has been brought to dwell upon the fact that the greatest eras of human progress have
begun with the advent of those who have led successful insurrection; nor can the dazzling genius
of these brilliant exceptions be appreciated, unless it be remembered how infinitely small
has been the number of those among mankind who, having been once drilled to rigid conformity,
have not lapsed into automatism, but have been endowed with the mental energy to revolt. On
the other hand, though ecclesiastics have differed widely in the details of the training they
have enforced upon the faithful, they have agreed upon this cardinal principle: they have uniformly
seized upon the education of the young, and taught the child to revere the rites in which he
was made to partake before he could reason upon their meaning, for they understood well that
the habit of abject submission to authority, when firmly rooted in infancy, would ripen into
a second nature in after years, and would almost invariably last till death.

But this manual of religion, this deadening of the soul by making mechanical prayers and genuflexions
the gauge of piety, has always roused the deepest indignation in the great reformers; and,
un-appalled by the most ghastly perils, they have never ceased to exhort mankind to cast off
the slavery of custom and emancipate the mind. Christ rebuked the Pharisees because they rejected
the commandment of God to keep their own tradition; Paul proclaimed that men should be justified
by faith without the deeds of the law; and Luther preached that the Christian was free, that
the soul did not live because the body wore vestments or prayed with the lips, and he denounced
the tyranny of the clergy, who arrogated to themselves a higher position than others who were
Christian in the spirit. On their side priesthoods know these leaders of rebellion by an unerring
instinct and pursue them to the death.

The ministers of New England were formalists to the core, and the society over which they dominated
was organized upon the avowed basis of the manifestation of godliness in the outward man. The
sad countenance, the Biblical speech, the sombre garb, the austere life, the attendance at
worship, and, above all, the unfailing deference paid to themselves, were the marks of sanctification
by which the elders knew the saints on earth, for whom they were to open the path to fortune
by making them members of the church.

Happily for Massachusetts, there has never been a time when all her children could be docile
under such a rule; and, among her champions of freedom, none have been braver than those who
have sprung from the ranks of her ministry, as the fate of Roger Williams had already proved.
In such a community, before the ecclesiastical power had been solidified by time, only a spark
was needed to kindle a conflagration, and that spark was struck by a woman.

So early as 1634 a restless spirit was abroad, for Winthrop was then set aside, and now, in
1636, young Henry Vane was enthusiastically elected governor, though he was only twenty-four,
and had been but a few months in the colony. The future seemed bright and serene, yet he had
hardly taken office before the storm burst, which not only overthrew him, but was destined
to destroy that unhappy lady whom the Rev. Thomas Welde called the American Jezebel. [Footnote:
Opinions are divided as to the authorship of the Short Story, but I conclude from internal
evidence that the ending at least was written by Mr. Welde.]

John Cotton, the former rector of St. Botolph's, was the teacher of the Boston church. By common
consent the leader of the clergy, he was the most brilliant, and, in some respects, the most
powerful man in the colony. Two years before, Anne Hutchinson, with all her family, had followed
him from her home in Lincolnshire into the wilderness, for, "when our teacher came to New England,
it was a great trouble unto me, my brother, Wheelwright, being put by also." [Footnote: Hutch.
Hist. ii. 440.] A gentlewoman of spotless life, with a kind and charitable heart, a vigorous
understanding and dauntless courage, her failings were vanity and a bitter tongue toward those
whom she disliked. [Footnote: Cotton, Way of New England Churches, p. 52.] Unfortunately also
for herself, she was one of the enthusiasts who believe themselves subject to divine revelations,
for this pretension would probably in any event have brought upon her the displeasure of the
church. It is worth while to attempt some logical explanation of the dislike felt by the Massachusetts
elders to any suggestion of such supernatural interposition. The half-unconscious train of
reasoning on which they based their claim to exact implicit obedience from the people seems,
when analyzed, to yield this syllogism: All revelation is contained in the Bible; but to interpret
the ancient sacred writings with authority, a technical training is essential, which is confined
to priests; therefore no one can define God's will who is not of the ministry. Had the possibility
of direct revelation been admitted this reasoning must have fallen; for then, obviously, the
word of an inspired peasant would have outweighed the sermon of an uninspired divine; it follows,
necessarily, that ecclesiastics so situated would have been jealous of lay preaching, and absolutely
intolerant of the inner light.

In May, 1636, the month of Vane's election, Mrs. Hutchinson had been joined by her brother-in-law,
John Wheelwright, the deprived vicar of Bilsby. Her social influence was then at its height;
her amiable disposition had made her popular, and for some time past she had held religious
meetings for women at her house. The ostensible object of these gatherings was to recapitulate
the sermons of the week; but the step from discussion to criticism was short, and it soon began
to be said that she cast reproach "upon the ministers, ... saying that none of them did preach
the covenant of free grace, but Master Cotton, and that they have not the seale of the Spirit,
and so were not able ministers of the New Testament." [Footnote: Short Story, p. 36.] Or, to
use colloquial language, she accused the clergy of being teachers of forms, and said that,
of them all, Cotton alone appealed to the animating spirit like Luther or St. Paul.

"A company of legall professors," quoth she, "lie poring on the law which Christ hath abolished."
[Footnote: Wonder-Working Providence, Poole's ed. p. 102.]

Such freedom of speech was, of course, intolerable; and so, as Cotton was implicated by her
imprudent talk, the elders went to Boston in a body in October to take him to task. In the
hope of adjusting the difficulty, he suggested a friendly meeting at his house, and an interview
took place. At first Mrs. Hutchinson, with much prudence, declined to commit herself; but the
Rev. Hugh Peters besought her so earnestly to deal frankly and openly with them that she, confiding
in the sacred character of a confidential conversation with clergymen in the house of her own
religious teacher, committed the fatal error of admitting that she saw a wide difference between
Mr. Cotton's ministry and theirs, and that they could not preach a covenant of grace so clearly
as he, because they had not the seal of the Spirit. The progress of the new opinion was rapid,
and it is clear Mrs. Hutchinson had only given expression to a feeling of discontent which
was both wide-spread and deep. Before winter her adherents, or those who condemned the covenant
of works,--in modern language, the liberals,--had become an organized political party, of which
Vane was the leader; and here lay their first danger.

Notwithstanding his eminent ability, he was then but a boy, and the task was beyond his strength.
The stronghold of his party was Boston, where, except some half-dozen, [Footnote: Winthrop,
i. 212.] the whole congregation followed him and Cotton: yet even here he met with the powerful
opposition of Winthrop and the pastor, John Wilson. In the country he was confronted by the
solid body of the clergy, whose influence proved sufficient to hold together a majority of
the voters in substantially all the towns, so that the conservatives never lost control of
the legislature.

The position was harassing, and his nerves gave way under the strain. In December he called
a court and one day suddenly announced that he had received letters from England requiring
his immediate return; but when some of his friends remonstrated he "brake forth into tears
and professed that, howsoever the causes propounded for his departure were such as did concern
the utter ruin of his outward estate, yet he would rather have hazarded all" ... "but for the
danger he saw of God's judgment to come upon us for these differences and dissensions which
he saw amongst us, and the scandalous imputations brought upon himself, as if he should be
the cause of all." [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 207.]

Such a flight was out of the question. The weight of his name and the protection given his
supporters by the power of his family in England could not be dispensed with, and therefore
the Boston congregation intervened. After a day's reflection he seems himself to have become
convinced that he had gone too far to recede, so he "expressed himself to be an obedient child
to the church and therefore ... durst not go away." [Footnote: Idem, i. 208.]

That a young and untried man like Vane should have grown weary of his office and longed to
escape will astonish no one who is familiar with the character and the mode of warfare of his
adversaries.

In that society a layman could not retort upon a minister who insulted him, nor could Vane
employ the arguments with which Cromwell so effectually silenced the Scotch divines. The following
is a specimen of the treatment to which he was probably almost daily subjected, and the scene
in this instance was the more mortifying because it took place before the assembled legislature.

"The ministers had met a little before and had drawn into heads all the points wherein they
suspected Mr. Cotton did differ from them, and had propounded them to him, and pressed him
to a direct answer ... to every one; which he had promised. ... This meeting being spoke of
in the court the day before, the governour took great offence at it, as being without his privity,
&c., which this day Mr. Peter told him as plainly of (with all due reverence), and how it had
sadded the ministers' spirits, that he should be jealous of their meetings, or seem to restrain
their liberty, &c. The governour excused his speech as sudden and upon a mistake. Mr. Peter
told him also, that before he came, within less than two years since, the churches were in
peace.... Mr. Peter also besought him humbly to consider his youth and short experience in
the things of God, and to beware of peremptory conclusions which he perceived him to be very
apt unto." [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 209.] This coarse bully was the same Hugh Peters of whom
Whitelock afterward complained that he often advised him, though he "understood little of the
law, but was very opinionative," [Footnote: Memorials, p. 521.] and who was so terrified at
the approach of death that on his way to the scaffold he had to drink liquor to keep from fainting.
[Footnote: Burnet, i. 162.]

"Mr. Wilson" also "made a very sad speech to the General Court of the condition of our churches,
and the inevitable danger of separation, if these differences ... were not speedily remedied,
and laid the blame upon these new opinions ... which all the magistrates except the governour
and two others did confirm and all the ministers but two." [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 209.] Those
two were John Cotton and John Wheelwright, the preachers of the covenant of grace.

Their brethren might well make sad speeches, for their cup of bitterness was full; but they
must be left to describe for themselves the tempest of fear and wrath that raged within them.
"Yea, some that had beene begotten to Christ by some of their faithfull labours in this land"
(England, where the tract was published,) "for whom they could have laid downe their lives,
and not being able to beare their absence followed after them thither to New England to enjoy
their labours, yet these falling acquainted with those seducers, were suddenly so altered in
their affections toward those their spirituall fathers, that they would neither heare them,
nor willingly come in their company, professing they had never received any good from them."
... "Now the faithfull ministers of Christ must have dung cast on their faces ... must be pointed
at as it were with the finger, and reproached by name, such a church officer is an ignorant
man, and knows not Christ; such an one is under a covenant of works: such a pastor is a proud
man, and would make a good persecutor ... so that through these reproaches occasion was given
to men, to abhorre the offerings of the Lord." [Footnote: Welde's Short Story, Pref. Sections
7-11.]

"Now, one of them in a solemne convention of ministers dared to say to their faces, that they
did not preach the Covenant of Free Grace, and that they themselves had not the seale of the
Spirit.... Now, after our sermons were ended at our publike lectures, you might have seene
halfe a dozen pistols discharged at the face of the preacher (I meane) so many objections made
by the opinionists in the open assembly against our doctrine ... to the marvellous weakening
of holy truths delivered ... in the hearts of all the weaker sort." The personal friend of
Cromwell and of Vane, with a mind vigorous and masculine, and a courage stern and determined
even above the Puritan standard of resolution and of daring, he spoke the truth which was within
him, and could neither be intimidated nor cajoled. In October an attempt had been made to have
him settled as a teacher of the Boston church in conjunction with Wilson and Cotton, but it
had miscarried through Winthrop's opposition, and he had afterward taken charge of a congregation
that had been gathered at Mount Wollaston, in what is now Quincy.

On the 19th of January a fast was held on account of the public dissensions, and on that day
Wheelwright preached a great sermon in Boston which brought on the crisis. He was afterward
accused of sedition: the charge was false, for he did not utter one seditious word; but he
did that which was harder to forgive, he struck at what he deemed the wrong with his whole
might, and those who will patiently pore over his pages until they see the fire glowing through
his rugged sentences will feel the power of his blow. And what he told his hearers was in substance
this: It maketh no matter how seemingly holy men be according to the law, if ... they are such
as trust to their own righteousness they shall die, saith the Lord. Do ye not after their works;
for they say and do not. And the way we must take if so be we will not have the Lord Jesus
Christ taken from us is this, we must all prepare a spiritual combat, we must put on the whole
armor of God, and must have our loins girt up and be ready to fight, ... because of fear in
the night if we will not fight the Lord Jesus Christ may come to be surprised.

And when his brethren heard it they sought how they might destroy him; for they feared him,
because all the people were astonished at his doctrine.

In March the legislature met, and Wheelwright was arraigned before a court composed, according
to the account of the Quaker Groom, of Henry Vane, "twelve magistrates, twelve priests, & thirty-three
deputies." [Footnote: Groom's Glass for New England, p. 6.] His sermon was produced, and an
attempt was made to obtain an admission that by those under a covenant of works he meant his
brethren. But the accused was one whom it was hard to entrap and impossible to frighten. He
defied his judges to controvert his doctrine, offering to prove it by the Scriptures, and as
for the application he answered that "if he were shown any that walked in such a way as he
had described to be a covenant of works, them did he mean." [Footnote: Wheelwright, Prince
Soc. ed. p. 17, note 27.] Then the rest of the elders were asked if they "did walk in such
a way, and they all acknowledged they did," [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 215. Wheelwright, p. 18.]
excepting John Cotton, who declared that "brother Wheelwright's doctrine was according to God
in the parts controverted, and wholly and altogether." [Footnote: Groom's Glass for New England,
p. 7.] He received ecclesiastical justice. There was no jury, and the popular assembly that
decided law and fact by a partisan vote was controlled by his adversaries. Yet even so, a verdict
of sedition was such a flagrant outrage that the clergy found it impossible to command prompt
obedience. For two days the issue was in doubt, but at length "the priests got two of the magistrates
on their side, and so got the major part with them." [Footnote: Felt's Eccl. Hist. ii. 611.]
They appear, however, to have felt too weak to proceed to sentence, for the prisoner was remanded
until the next session.

No sooner was the judgment made known than more than sixty of the most respected citizens of
Boston signed a petition to the court in Wheelwright's behalf, In respectful and even submissive
language they pointed out the danger of meddling with the right of free speech. Y effort
not to believe the unpleasant reality, it appeared evident in the new confessions. The narrator
writes:

"We need to believe.

Need to wait ... The more often we do not know, we need that we reveal to ourselves what we
are ... "

This idea no doubt was referring to the man standing near her, her stubborn insistence in the work
of destruction, hope, living even bend it, to make return having beliefs, as the Countess
went on in horror:

"I still hate, blood, fire! No, never, never be that way! ... How can a loving soul and talk?
He says that love is paid with love, hatred with hatred, that be fair but not generous. And those
who truly hate fighting "? Do not suffer They also have to resort to violence ?...»

It seemed, therefore, that the discord between the instinct of rebellion
of the Prince and preaching of peace by the Countess had preceded
the major disappointment, but at the time to recognize the futility
of his own efforts, is not she should have suspected that the man
did not had been sincere in ensuring that his love had come to believe?

And such a suspicion should not hurt, not only in their beliefs, but even in their hopes?

She did not speak of the fate of his love. "He kept it quiet because he urged more appease the rebels
to ensure his own happiness? Or on the contrary, turned his attention a moral disappointment
to distract from a more, fearful of a disappointment that would have been much more disastrous?
If you love this man was lying, did not sanction the close failed awareness that a link had
contracted outside the law? For the Christian who guilt had seemed, if not excused, at least
tempered by the sincerity of love for the honesty of the agreement,
the purity of the commitment "should not imply a condemnation sudden
severe lack of these conditions?

Ferpierre saw that these ideas should be concerned about the deceased at that time, almost read
between the lines.

And just as when listening to a musical phrase provides for the development and cadence of
the melody, its logical predictions were confirmed by the following paragraphs of the reports:

"I
had no value, but must have it.

Again and I was afraid to go down to my for an internal examination, this duty that I have always
been easy, and nice. But then nothing was afraid that might have compared to today.

"Am I deceiving myself? And how others pretend to be sincere? Can I prevent the pride confess that
I could fool me? But God, who reads my heart knows I've thought into the well. And I still believe.

"He
is not known. Reflects so many different boosters. His thinking is so complex their experience
has been so vast that he himself does not know his true nature and that no pulse pound passenger,
there is no other than itself. I expected to get put it back on the path of truth, but the
work is harder and requires more time than I had expected.

However, I still hold out hope, confidence encouraged me before.

"There are times when I doubt.

I doubt most of it, myself. I think that this hope is false, that this confidence is not sincere,
that I'm using both to hide something less worthy, to second less pure desire.

"Is not this the view that everyone would pronounce?

Do you use anything ambiguous media who want to an end right? Should I follow tortuous paths
to put him on the road? Yo, I should give the example of virtue that he does not believe, I gave another
test rather accommodative weakness of that before condemning ...

"I can not even say I was surprised that I had not foreseen what would happen. Many fallacies! Anticipating
the fall, I told myself that he could not love or debasement, thought to confide in him for not
practicing an act of arrogance attributing exclusively ability to regulate our love!

And there would be no such pride. This ability is ours, we women are responsible of good and
evil. Our resistance must lay down the law to the exuberant energy and arrogant men. But another
idea overcame me: that for strong souls no written law in a book
just to understand it.

The unknown that all tells me that for my fall the law of love: faithfulness. Now I can not,
I should not, I do not suspect that there mocked up to that law. And yet, what I used to think
these things, say them in high voice, write, if in doubt overwhelms me and torments me?

"Slowly, but with perfect clarity, I have seen emerge, grow, and bounds.

Doubt becomes anxious at times in desperate certainty.

So I think I still remain a force to exercise extreme force: forgiveness. I feel that no it cost
me, and that's bad, because if it cost me, it would have more merit. But he I can do whatever
they want, provided they do not deny everything and always ...

"Ah, that laugh ...!»

"It was hoped that Zakunine had reached the only condition imposed by the hapless? ... To rebuild
with the help of these confessions the defendant's character, which
saw Ferpierre adverse trial that man, made by Robert candle plant,
was not the result of passion.

Behind their profession of faith humanitarian, his preaching of justice,
equality, love, selfishness to withhold a skeptic, low appetite, wrong
intentions, since he had been able to reduce such torment to a being
who had surrendered at discretion.

If induce the illusion of a more tranquil pursuit of social reform
had failed Had he answered it at least acts of kindness, these demonstrations
of love?

Ferpierre returned with interest to reading the newspaper:

"Today I said the same words that I copy, without changing anything on them:

"" So you think that love is immortal? Do not you realize that one day cease to love me they
do not love me anymore? You judge me unworthy of love: you think you have sacrificed; sacrifice hurts,
and want to get your clearance: it will look for another love, not doubt: I will offer any ...
At first say that my fault and later recognize I am not guilty. Within you, within me, the nerves,
in the flesh, blood of us all, there is a ferment that nothing and nobody can calm: when you're
hungry, you cebarás, once you've eaten, you will feel satiated. Out of this truth there is no other.
Is must say it, repeat it, to honor and recognize your laws, your commandments, your scruples, are
lies and hypocrisy that we expose and confuse. Your big names, Love Duty, the Right, have
a meaning, but not the same as you think. Our duty and our right is reduced to obtain and maintain
the pleasure, which is why the origin to the life, as your pleasure is mine, we love, when it
is not enough for each other, love ends.

Sound you utter another word: Honor. Where would you place him? My honor is to say what I think,
in my actions to agree with my ideas. Everyone is wicked full of worries, but most stupid unjust.
Science, which does not lie, has taken over the true, the only law that is in the secular accumulation
of lies: the law of the struggle for existence.

"Ocultadla, cast fire books that teach, if you still believe in your lies. But once you recognize
how you can stay serious, repeated listening to these chants lied? We must choose between death
and life: the renunciation of life is preferable but you do not wish, and as I have to live,
exterminate the whole human race to procure what you think it's more futile the satisfaction!
You wanted that we formed an inseparable family. But are not you glad now to be free, is not it
good to be in skills to be able to leave me if, having seen the way I am, do you feel inspired
horror? Let the children ignore what your parents if they do not want to curse who have given
life! Why inextricably life hotspot we wanted, when each is independent of us, when nothing
prevents - on the contrary it attends all - that each of the two can love another human being and
one day get to do it? If you leave me when I no longer love you, I appreciate, if you betray me
when still love you, I'll kill you. You do likewise. My right is equal to yours. So come all
men, in spite of codes idiots and hypocrites preaching. The anarchy that we want to establish
already exists in the customs, but there is nothing more than anarchy
in the sense that you the dais, ie, ignorance and the injury of the
laws.

What is needed instead of what is an anarchy that conforms to natural laws, the uniform conscious
vital instinct, beyond that there is nothing.

"

"I have omitted the least thing: these were his own words. You're right. Beyond that, there
is nothing ... "

And Ferpierre, even though it had long been accustomed to the spectacle of pain, felt moved
to think how bitter must have been the death of the believer. For transcribed these words,
each of which was an insult and offend frighten as blasphemy, to recognize that Zakunine was right,
it was necessary the unhappy be ordered without an excuse, which was considered lost without
hope. Should be recognized, finally, that the illusion of a soul and redeem the desire to do
it had been mere pretexts, which in its love, all love, that all
life, we hear no more voice than the tiny drives.

And that was the result: she wanted make your lover come back to have beliefs, she wanted to draw
him to his own faith seen pushed to doubt, to the denial. Instead of healing the sick, he had caught
their evil, instead of purifying the reprobate, was spotted by the touch!

But could, in fact long deny the beliefs of a lifetime? In that sentence it was right to what
extent denier irony intervened? As she spoke of his love, he argued skeptical arguments, cynical
and almost expected that he would be betrayed; this was enough for
the unfortunate itself is flouted, but what he thought of the possibility
of betrayal?

"He recognized that, by a fatal logic, his first error was follow a second and a third, or conversely,
rebelled against this logic?

There was the moral problem, whose solution would have clarified the legal mystery.

And Ferpierre curiosity grew, its attention to the confessions of
the dead be redoubled.

"What a disaster for a mother, having to despise his own son, the
fruit of their live depths, the best part of their being!

"The tragedy of life is the idea of ​​happiness.

"The person who follows the grave to be adored" is liable to punishment?

Is it a crime a son, a husband, die with the father or the wife? An act is punishable as beautiful?
If I had died with my father!

"Pray to God to send us the death, hope and salvation, desire it as a reward Is not it almost like
giving it?

Is it so big the gap between ardent vocation the act? If the act is a sin how can it be spoiled
intended pleading? ...

"I will not have to wait long, the work of destruction is already advanced, my pain bites breastfeed
more viciously. But every day, every hour that passes, I do much harm.

"There are coincidences that seem, warnings, advice, complicity, of the destination. Why has been the
weapon into my hands, just as was its lack ?...»

All these paragraphs that discussed the unhappy itself the problem of suicide, demonstrated that
he had no more hope than death. Beyond a statement that was transcribed read in a book:

"When I live under the laws, I have the obligation to comply, but can you still make me when I'm out
of them? "(Montesquieu.)

This trial was due seem uniquely adaptable to your own situation.

However all contrary arguments, must see that suicide is an evil, and that the moral law ordered
life endure patiently until the last day, but this order could be
worth for those who had obeyed all the others, it had infringed and
a much more serious should feel detached from this duty, and besides,
when I thought about killing yourself, wanted to impose punishment.

"Is it time?" He asked in another paragraph. True, when you see that all other remedies are impossible,
when hope is dead at all, I can run this event, but am I I just judge the opportunity of the moment?
It does not seem often that a living body is close to dissolve under
the action of a relentless evil, then nature is in itself the strength
to revive it?

Life, so rich and fertile is not can be solved in an unexpected way a situation seems to end? Should
not hope be the last to die? Did I touch then wait ?...»

Recognizing the desirability of doing so had expected, but what had been achieved with it?

After a few blank pages, the judge found the thought struck him:

"The joy does not have sufficient virtue to forget the pain, as a new pain .-- The night August
12. "

Between the two sheets had some dried flowers, stiff and discolored, by way of signal.

Those flowers and the date set under those words, they think that Ferpierre it was a more noteworthy
event, which the Countess attached particular importance. Continued reading and found a paragraph
in the longer time it stopped.

The deceased did not express his own thought: once copied something from a book:

"Nothing contributes so much to make life unpleasant, a second love. The nature of eternity,
of infinity that brings love and lifts it above all things, has vanished ya: love seems ephemeral
as everything starts again. "(Goethe.)

Ferpierre remembered very well this trial by the German poet: could the deceased have cited without
applying it to itself? And he expressed doubt that candle plant began to take consistency. If the Countess
had copied the statement disconsolately after a candle plant known as was still troubled by
an unconscious sympathy, it was necessary to believe that he did not expect find love in the
second compensation but a ground for punishment! After waiting, waited until after the life, what
got it? Not a help, but the last disaster!

The poet's statement meant that the second love is inevitably doomed, because thrilled by the depth
of the new affection is not possible for the heart that has seen the former's death. The savages
of America immortal believed the first European came to conquer the new world, and therefore
the omnipotent judged until seeing Spanish succumb first recognized the deception and ceased
to venerate ...

But the certainty expressed by Goethe and later affirmed by the Countess d'Arda what could asserted
against the persuasions of the life instinct? How many love again prevents knowledge the new
love to end up as the first?

The certainty of death that you have is it perhaps a reason for suicide? One who sees the sad truth
live badly, but still alive, because the instincts are more persuasive than abstract concessions
... capacity restrain merely the moral sanction.

The condition in which the Countess was the lack of a written obligation that the linking inextricably
to the Prince, the example you gave her unworthy lover, was natural, humanely are sought in
the new love comfort and enjoyment which revocation, common to all
human affairs, could not and should stop.

What happened was that while he was open to men, had been linked to his own conscience, without
the aid of the rite, but with complete sincerity. True, had been outside the laws, but in order
to come back to them who had abandoned and unknown, and whether they had received this an example
of evil, had been due to give the good. Feeding this new love was not, therefore possible,
without compromising the attenuation, in the ambiguity of their status, substraían to the conviction
and allowed at least hope that it might avoid rigor.

"This idea convinced me: that souls do not need strong that law is written in a book just to understand
it. "Could have forgotten their own words, the feeling that they had been given? If that feeling was
sincere and healthy; if the soul of this woman was so high and strong as it appeared in the
statements of witnesses and in the pages of the book, not only was possible had been given
death but that the incident should have been almost expected.

Before
I found candle plant, his heart was oppressed, his life full of bitterness,
all their efforts had failed, but, however, could still be respected.
In the bitter had been disappointed, yes, censorship and reported
foul, claiming that it had joined with Prince Alexis, not to fulfill
a noble purpose, animated by a pure sense, but simply to satisfy his
own lust, and even had said that his own failure was attenuated. A
second fall not only had no excuse, but also skeptical view would
be confirmed or that it had formed her first lover:

"Your sacrifice
hurts, want to obtain compensation and seek it in another love: not
doubt, someone will offer you ... "These words of Zakunine who had
humiliated and offended when there were more than a skeptical forecast,
would have been confirmed by the fact, expressed reality, if she had
yielded to the love of candle plant, then the skeptic, denier, the
blasphemer had been right, faith that the believer is held against
him had been reduced as he wanted to reduce it to a lie, a hypocrisy.

Ferpierre
repeated to himself that suicide under these conditions was not only
possible, but almost necessary. And for other reasons had recognized
its credibility in a nature melancholy and contemplative as this,
in a soul accustomed to regularly look inside itself, to explore without
fear, but rather a kind of complacency problems of life.

Mr. L. To my best remembrance ... Mr. Peters did with much vehemency and entreaty urge her
to tell what difference there was between Mr. Cotton and them, and upon his urging of her she
said: "The fear of man is a snare, but they that trust upon the Lord shall be safe." And ...
that they did not preach a covenant of grace so clearly as Mr. Cotton did, and she gave this
reason of it, because that as the apostles were for a time without the Spirit so until they
had received the witness of the Spirit they could not preach a covenant of grace so clearly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Rev. John Cotton was then called. He was much embarrassed in giving his evidence, but,
if he is to be believed, his brethren, in their anxiety to make out a case, had colored material
facts. He closed his account of the interview in these words: "I must say that I did not find
her saying they were under a covenant of works, nor that she said they did preach a covenant
of works."

       *       *       *       *       *

Gov. You say you do not remember, but can you say she did not speak so?

Mr. C. I do remember that she looked at them as the apostles before the ascension....

Dep. Gov. They affirm that Mrs. Hutchinson did say they were not able ministers of the New
Testament.

Mr. C. I do not remember it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Hutchinson had shattered the case of the government in a style worthy of a leader of the
bar, but she now ventured on a step for which she has been generally condemned. She herself
approached the subject of her revelations. To criticise the introduction of evidence is always
simpler than to conduct a cause, but an analysis of her position tends to show not only that
her course was the result of mature reflection, but that her judgment was in this instance
correct. She probably assumed that when the more easily proved charges had broken down she
would be attacked here; and in this assumption she was undoubtedly right. The alternative presented
to her, therefore, was to go on herself, or wait for Winthrop to move. If she waited she knew
she should give the government the advantage of choosing the ground, and she would thus be
subjected to the danger of having fatal charges proved against her by hearsay or distorted
evidence. If she took the bolder course, she could explain her revelations as monitions coming
to her through texts in Scripture, and here she was certain of Cotton's support. Before that
tribunal she could hardly have hoped for an acquittal; but if anything could have saved her
it would have been the sanction given to her doctrines by the approval of John Cotton. At all
events, she saw the danger, for she closed her little speech in these touching words: "Now
if you do condemn me for speaking what in my conscience I know to be truth, I must commit myself
unto the Lord."

Mr. Nowell. How do you know that that was the Spirit?

Mrs. H. How did Abraham know that it was God?...

Dep. Gov. By an immediate voice.

Mrs. H. So to me by an immediate revelation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then she proceeded to state how, through various texts which she cited, the Lord showed her
what He would do; and she particularly dwelt on one from Daniel. So far all was well; she had
planted herself on ground upon which orthodox opinion was at least divided; but she now committed
the one grave error of her long and able defence. As she went on her excitement gained upon
her, and she ended by something like a defiance and denunciation: "You have power over my body,
but the Lord Jesus hath power over my body and soul; and assure yourselves thus much, you do
as much as in you lies to put the Lord Jesus Christ from you, and if you go on in this course
you begin, you will bring a curse upon you and your posterity, and the mouth of the Lord hath
spoken it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Gov. Daniel was delivered by miracle. Do you think to be delivered so too?

Mrs. H. I do here speak it before the court. I look that the Lord should deliver me by his
providence....

Dep. Gov. I desire Mr. Cotton to tell us whether you do approve of Mrs. Hutchinson's revelations
as she hath laid them down.

Mr. C. I know not whether I do understand her, but this I say, if she doth expect a deliverance
in a way of providence, then I cannot deny it.

Gov. ... I see a marvellous providence of God to bring things to this pass.... God by a providence
hath answered our desires, and made her to lay open herself and the ground of all these disturbances
to be by revelations. . . .

Court. We all consent with you.

Gov. Ey, it is the most desperate enthusiasm in the world....

Mr. Endicott. I speak in reference to Mr. Cotton.... Whether do you witness for her or against her.

Mr. C. This is that I said, sir, and my answer is plain, that if she doth look for deliverance
from the hand of God by his providence, and the revelation be  ... according to a word [of
Scripture] that I cannot deny.

Mr. Endicott. You give me satisfaction.

Dep. Gov. No, no, he gives me none at all....

Mr. C. I pray, sir, give me leave to express myself. In that sense that she speaks I dare not
bear witness against it.

Mr. Nowell. I think it is a devilish delusion.

Gov. Of all the revelations that ever I read of I never read the like ground laid as is for
this. The enthusiasts and Anabaptists had never the like....

Mr. Peters. I can say the same ... and I think that is very disputable which our brother Cotton
hath spoken....

Gov. I am persuaded that the revelation she brings forth is delusion.

All the court but some two or three ministers cry out, We all believe it, we all believe it....

       *       *       *       *       *

And then Coddington stood up before that angry meeting like the brave man he was, and said,
"I beseech you do not speak so to force things along, for I do not for my own part see any
equity in the court in all your proceedings. Here is no law of God that she hath broken, nor
any law of the country that she hath broke, and therefore deserves no censure; and if she say
that the elders preach as the apostles did, why they preached a covenant of grace and what
wrong is that to them, ... therefore I pray consider, what you do, for here is no law of God
or man broken."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Peters. I profess I thought Mr. Cotton would never have took her part.

Gov. The court hath already declared themselves satisfied ... concerning the troublesomeness
of her spirit and the danger of her course amongst us which is not to be suffered. Therefore
if it be the mind of the court that Mrs. Hutchinson ... shall be banished out of our liberties
and imprisoned till she be sent away let them hold up their hands.

All but three consented.

Those contrary minded hold up yours. Mr. Coddington and Colburn only.

Gov. Mrs. Hutchinson, the sentence of the court you hear is that you are banished from out
of our jurisdiction as being a woman not fit for our society, and are to be imprisoned till
the court shall send you away.

Mrs. H. I desire to know wherefore I am banished.

Gov. Say no more, the court knows wherefore and is satisfied. [Footnote: Hutch. Hist. vol.
ii. App. 2.]

       *       *       *       *       *

With refined malice she was committed to the custody of Joseph Welde of Roxbury, the brother
of the Rev. Thomas Welde who thought her a Jezebel. Here "divers of the elders resorted to
her," and under this daily torment rapid progress was made. Probably during that terrible interval
her reason was tottering, for her talk came to resemble ravings. [Footnote: Brief Apologie,
p. 59.] When this point was reached the divines saw their object attained, and that "with sad
hearts" they could give her up to Satan. [Footnote: Brief Apologie, p. 59.] Accordingly they
"wrote to the church at Boston, offering to make proof of the same," whereupon she was summoned
and the lecture appointed to begin at ten o'clock. [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 254.]

"When she was come one of the ruling elders called her forth before the assembly," and read
to her the twenty-nine errors of which she was accused, all of which she admitted she had maintained.
"Then she asked by what rule such an elder would come to her pretending to desire light and
indeede to entrappe her." He answered that he came not to "entrap her but in compassion to
her soule...."

"Then presently she grew into passion ... professing withall that she held none of these things
... before her imprisonment." [Footnote: Brief Apol. pp. 59-61.]

The court sat till eight at night, when "Mr. Cotton pronounced the sentence of admonition ...
with much zeal and detestation of her errors and pride of spirit." [Footnote: Winthrop, i.
256.] An adjournment was then agreed on for a week and she was ordered to return to Roxbury;
but this was more than she could bear, and her distress was such that the congregation seem
to have felt some touch of compassion, for she was committed to the charge of Cotton till the
next lecture day, when the trial was to be resumed. [Footnote: Brief Apol. p. 62.] At his house
her mind recovered its tone and when she again appeared she not only retracted the wild opinions
she had broached while at Joseph Welde's, but admitted "that what she had spoken against the
magistrates at the court (by way of revelation) was rash and ungrounded." [Footnote: Winthrop,
i. 258.]

But nothing could avail her. She was in the hands of men determined to make her expiation of
her crimes a by-word of terror; her fate was sealed. The doctrines she now professed were less
objectionable, so she was examined as to former errors, among others "that she had denied inherent
righteousness;" she "affirmed that it was never her judgment; and though it was proved by many
testimonies ... yet she impudently persisted in her affirmation to the astonishment of all
the assembly. So that ... the church with one consent cast her out.... After she was excommunicated
her spirit, which seemed before to be somewhat dejected, revived again and she gloried in her
sufferings." [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 258.] And all this time she had been alone; her friends
were far away.

That no circumstances of horror might be lost, she and one of her most devoted followers, Mary
Dyer, were nearing their confinements during this time of misery. Both cases ended in misfortunes
over whose sickening details Thomas Welde and his reverend brethren gloated with a savage joy,
declaring that "God himselfe was pleased to step in with his casting vote ... as clearly as
if he had pointed with his finger." [Footnote: Short Story, Preface, Section 5.] Let posterity
draw a veil over the shocking scene.

Two or three days after her condemnation "the governor sent [her] a warrant ... to depart ...
she went by water to her farm at the Mount ... and so to the island in the Narragansett Bay
which her husband and the rest of that sect had purchased of the Indians." [Footnote: Winthrop,
i. 259.]

This pure and noble but most unhappy woman had sinned against the clergy, past forgiveness
here or hereafter. They gibbeted her as Jezebel, and her name became a reproach in Massachusetts
through two hundred years. But her crimes and the awful ending of her life are best read in
the Christian words of the Rev. Thomas Welde, whose gentle spirit so adorned his holy office.

"For the servants of God who came over into New England ... seeing their ministery was a most
precious sweete savour to all the saints before she came hither, it is easie to discerne from
what sinke that ill vapour hath risen which hath made so many of her seduced party to loath
now the smell of those flowers which they were wont to find sweetnesse in. [Footnote: Short
Story, p. 40.] ... The Indians set upon them, and slew her and all the family. [Footnote: Mrs.
Hutchinson and her family were killed in a general massacre of the Dutch and English by the
Indians on Long Island. Winthrop, ii. 136.] ... Some write that the Indians did burne her to
death with fire, her house and all the rest named that belonged to her; but I am not able to
affirme by what kind of death they slew her, but slaine it seemes she is, according to all
reports. I never heard that the Indians in those parts did ever before this, commit the like
outrage ...; and therefore God's hand is the more apparently seene herein, to pick out this
wofull woman, to make her and those belonging to her, an unheard of heavie example of their
cruelty above al others." [Footnote: Short Story, Preface.]

CHAPTER III.

THE CAMBRIDGE PLATFORM.

With the ruin of the Antinomians, opposition to the clergy ceased within the church itself,
but many causes combined to prevent the bulk of the people from participating in the communion.
Of those who were excluded, perhaps even the majority might have found it impossible to have
secured their pastor's approbation, but numbers who would have been gladly received were restrained
by conscientious scruples; and more shrank from undergoing the ordeal to which they would have
been obliged to submit. It was no light matter for a pious but a sincerely honest man to profess
his conversion, and how God had been pleased to work "in the inward parts of his soul," when
he was not absolutely certain that he had indeed been visited by the Spirit. And it is no exaggeration
to say that to sensitive natures the initiation was appalling. The applicant had first to convince
the minister of his worthiness, then his name was openly propounded, and those who knew of
any objection to his character, either moral or religious, were asked to give notice to the
presbytery of elders. If the candidate succeeded in passing this private examination as to
his fitness the following scene took place in church:--

"The party appearing in the midst of the assembly ... the ruling elder speaketh in this manner:
Brethren of this congregation, this man or woman ... hath beene heretofore propounded to you,
desiring to enter into church fellowship with us, and we have not since that heard anything
from any of you to the contrary of the parties admittance but that we may goe on to receive
him: therefore now, if any of you know anything against him, why he may not be admitted, you
may yet speak.... Whereupon, sometimes men do speak to the contrary ... and so stay the party
for that time also till this new offence be heard before the elders, so that sometimes there
is a space of divers moneths between a parties first propounding and receiving, and some are
so bashfull as that they choose rather to goe without the communion than undergoe such publique
confessions and tryals, but that is held their fault." [Footnote: Lechford, Plain Dealing,
pp. 6, 7.]

Those who were thus disfranchised, Lechford, who knew what he was talking about, goes on to
say, soon began to complain that they were "ruled like slaves;" and there can be no doubt that
they had to submit to very substantial grievances. The administration of justice especially
seems to have been defective. "Now the most of the persons at New England are not admitted
of their church, and therefore are not freemen, and when they come to be tryed there, be it
for life or limb, name or estate, or whatsoever, they must bee tryed and judged too by those
of the church, who are in a sort their adversaries: how equall that hath been, or may be, some
by experience doe know, others may judge." [Footnote: Plain Dealing, p. 23.]

The government was in fact in the hands of a small oligarchy of saints, [Footnote: "Three parts
of the people of the country remaine out of the church." Plain Dealing, p. 73. A. D. 1642.]
who were, in their turn, ruled by their priests, and as the repression of thought inevitable
under such a system had roused the Antinomians, who were voters, to demand a larger intellectual
freedom, so the denial of ordinary political rights to the majority led to discontent.

Since under the theocracy there was no department of human affairs in which the clergy did
not meddle, they undertook as a matter of course to interfere with the militia, and the following
curious letter written to the magistrates by the ministers of Rowley shows how far they carried
their supervision even so late as 1689.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROWLEY, July 24th, 1689.

May it please your honors,

The occasion of these lines is to inform you that whereas our military company have nominated
Abel Platts, for ensign, we conceive that it is our duty to declare that we cannot approve
of their choice in that he is corrupt in his judgment with reference to the Lord's Supper,
declaring against Christ's words of justification, and hereupon hath withdrawn himself from
communion with the church in that holy ordinance some years, besides some other things wherein
he hath shown no little vanity in his conversation and hath demeaned himself unbecomingly toward
the word and toward the dispensers of it....

SAMUEL PHILLIPS. EDWARD PAISON. [Footnote: History of Newbury, p. 80.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A somewhat similar difficulty, which happened in Hingham in 1645, produced very serious consequences.
A new captain had been chosen for their company; but a dispute having arisen, the magistrates,
on the question being submitted to them, set the election aside and directed the old officers
to keep their places until the General Court should meet. Notwithstanding this order the commotion
continued to increase, and the pastor, Mr. Peter Hubbert, "was very forward to have excommunicated
the lieutenant," who was the candidate the magistrates favored. [Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 222,
223.] Winthrop happened to be deputy governor that year, and the aggrieved officer applied
to him for protection; whereupon, as the defendants seemed inclined to be recalcitrant, several
were committed in open court, among whom were three of Mr. Hubbert's brothers.

Forthwith the clergyman in great wrath headed a petition to which he obtained a large number
of signatures, in which he prayed the General Court to take cognizance of the cause, since
it concerned the public liberty and the liberty of the church.

At its next session, the legislature proceeded to examine the whole case, and Winthrop was
brought to trial for exceeding his jurisdiction as a magistrate. A contest ensued between the
deputies and assistants, which was finally decided by the influence of the elders. The result
was that Winthrop was acquitted and Mr. Hubbert and the chief petitioners were fined. [Footnote:
Winthrop, ii. 227.]

In March the constable went to Hingham to collect the money, [Footnote: 1645-46, 18 March.]
but he found the minister indisposed to submit in silence. About thirty people had collected,
and before them all Mr. Hubbert demanded the warrant; when it was produced he declared it worthless
because not in the king's name, and then went on to add that the government "was not more then
a corporation in England, and ... had not power to put men to death ... that for himself he
had neither horn nor hoofe of his own, nor anything wherewith to buy his children cloaths ...
if he must pay the fine he would pay it in books, but that he knew not for what they were fined,
unlesse it were for petitioning: and if they were so waspish they might not be petitioned,
then he could not tell what to say." [Footnote: New Eng. That
reminds us: he will not believe what has happened. The idea that marrying would feel unhappy,
it was his torment.

"Luis asked me if I love him: I do not know how to prove it.

"I think that both doubt, one of my happiness, the other of my love. They do not insist on ask
me for reassurance, but in their eyes, I read a secret anxiety, as
if they believe they hiding something.

All this because my husband is forty-four years! If I had thirty four, do not hesitate! ...

"What
a pleasure! What a pleasure! I have finally been persuaded of the truth to Louis. He had said,
on the trip, that this book was written my memories of the day I left school, and had promised
to give to read them. His desire was to know whether he was talking about, what said of himself,
what views had inspired me. When we returned from the trip, did not return to ask for the book,
and the other day, he spoke of it myself, I replied that I did not want read my diary. The
reason they gave me did not seem good: it said that I had trusted the role was not to be very
clear. The truth is that he still afraid to discover that I had not seemed quite young, I was pleased
recently. Then I begged him to sit listen to me, and started reading. When I got to the last
lines, I begged, eyes wet, which is the explanation.

The last lines, prior to our marriage, read:

"The Count's younger than Dad, is forty-four years. I do not know if I like it or I dislike.

"I know I have explained as best I could. Knowing that Dad was younger, I was sorry for my dad,
because saw his old age approached, but later, thinking that dad
had me, while his friend was alone, I consoled myself and I even thought
it was just younger, so he could marry well and raise a family.

"I Hugged me Luis! What eyes so cheerful! What words of love! I've never seen so happy, not the day
I gave the yes! Now she can not believe that forty-four years I seem too: it is up convinced that
the idea of ​​marrying him should not be like as extravagant as he and Dad had feared. The
truth is that I found it quite natural, and although There was a time when I noticed that Luis
had two older than I, later reflected that age of men as there are no women. Indeed, who calculated
forty and four years to my husband? What matters is not age, are the qualities of the soul, and
Luis goodness I had this test: who is a friend of Dad. All he had heard two years of intimacy
showed me that their way of nodding was delicate, fine, fine, that
his intelligence was high and selective, their culture was wide and
deep.

"And now I understand that the issue is another. Luis did not fear therefore not sufficiently
Young, as unpleasant as a person, face.

"Well, if I considered stupid sometimes my habit of writing notes and, instead, on other occasions,
I have approved today, I think that was actually have written a fortune, because I was able, through
them, to convince Louis of what thought of him at that time. And I wish I had written it all
my detailed impressions that time, defying father in jest, took the trophy a foil and put on
guard! He was so good with the gun in his hand and shining eyes flashing like a sword; was so
strong and agile, which seemed to be truly a highlight of one of those novels Walter Scott
that I like both. I had not happened yet that I could marry him but I thought with pleasure
that the lady could be why the gentleman down to the sand. And if I knew what a pleasure of
another kind, not yet experienced, I felt when I posted that card that was called a joke: Provider
of His Grace the Marquesita Florence. On the card were our names together, like a bridal party,
it was written! Accurately thought even then that one day we could come together as we are now;
but I noticed, yes, our names were on the same piece of cardboard, it was he who had joined, I
had called His Grace, and I felt my heart pounding, with great force
...

"Ah!

If I had written it, Louis did not hesitate now. Little has failed to tell me, but I have not
said, in part because he was in one of those times of doubt, in part because I thought it would
be better to write in this book, where he will read it someday. Since I do not believe, do not
deserve to say anything: better entrust it to these pages, which are designed to disabuse. The fact
that he later write what I think does not mean that not true ... "

And below those words, characters thicker, more irregular, hand drawn with trembling, was written:

"Have
you read! He believed !...»

So those memories still filled with expressions of an inner joy, revealing a loving soul, candid
and sincere, than the judge Ferpierre was almost love.

Married the girl in those conditions, with a man who could be her father, was not expected to
give up happiness to burning, and get in the best case scenario,
bliss quiet, sooner or later feel disturbed by the idea of ​​a greater
good?

...

Confessions of destroying the suspected dead. Ferpierre felt that if the narrator not have been
happy if he saw that he was mistaken when she married the Count d'Arda, I would sincerely confessed
completely, but once I felt something had recognized I could not write, and certainly would not have
declared roundly his deceit, may believe that, rather than guard it would have preferred not
to write anything, the silence would have been then more eloquent. But far from silent, far
from referring to his disappointment, he insisted on both demonstrations
of affection for the naive and passionate couple, the judge could
not doubt his sincerity.

On the other hand, was really amazing the love of a girl of twenty years by a man over forty?
Ferpierre, explaining it was not so much into account the moral qualities the husband, as the
physical conditions among the papers found at the home of the deceased had seen some photographs
of relatives and friends, two of which, according to Julia's statement Pico, was the Count:
the figure of the man was beautiful, strong and noble, and was so expression, the love of the
young wife was justified. And pages and pages not spoke only of him, concerned, proud, all the
evidence of love that gave her husband, transcribed his words love,
was glad to see that he believed in his love, knowing that his father
was sure of his happiness.

Another blank page again interrupted abruptly daily, and in which
there was no but that letter:

"Father, father, live!

Live for me !...»

And nothing else .. A Ferpierre he could hear the cry of the desperate plea from the head that
the dying father, exhaled loving daughter's chest. But in vain: on the next page had a lock
of gray hair, bound by means of two cuts in the sheet, and the margin a date: June 3, 1886. After
the book was full of reminders of death: Countess confided to pages his dearest memories of
daughter with a pain so sharp, but at the same time comforted by Christian hope, which seemed
certain paragraphs we still talk about his living father, and the
beginning of the book.

But the judge quickly ran these pages, looking forward to the drama that foresaw inevitable.

Was
it not inevitable that over time, with the age of the husband, the
happy quiet woman had an end?

How would you talk about temptation?

Not talking about it.

There was, however, in the newspaper, a gap larger than the previous the letter appeared, after
interrogation, further amended, and the sense of new annotations incomprehensible.

"... I'm sure.

All her words come back to memory. Then I smiled, lifted up to hear me, today I pay my pride.
But there are times I fear that the blame be mine. What would have
done it for me?

The culprit is certainly my ignorance, my inexperience ...

"Do not want or could not speak? Without doubt, would not could. Once asked, "But How? How have
you been? ... I hear it still answering, looking away: "Another day ..."

"In his view, the killing was not a bad unforgivable. Killing by failing to live was a vile; but
in other cases, the voluntary death was not for him to be condemned. Often discussed this problem,
and he showed me the world just to whom honor is subtracted from the death servitude, shame,
dishonor, to whom, to kill, save or help their peers.

Killing to be punished - was also said - is an act of justice ... "

Ferpierre uncertainty about the meaning of these words was short:
the thought the narrator was explaining page by page.

Countess believed that her husband had not died by accident but deliberately, that by finding a tremendous
death under the wheels of a train he had sought.

"People who were present said, and still say, they did not understand
how no had heard the screams all throwing, nor seen his desperate
gestures.

A those who suffered from dizziness in the last year, would be the explanation of what happened,
if I did not know ...

"We seize a mortal sadness. When asked the reason for this, I looked
so painfully as if afraid to lose at once.

One day, far away and when I first spoke of their single life, had
so much disdain in his words!

And the conviction of his deviation by order of the error, guilt, comforted him so much! ...

"But
goodness, it was severe, almost unrelenting for deviations of the
passions.

The ruin of a friend who had left his family seemed deserved, and not his death in loneliness
and poverty as inclined to be lenient with him ...

"I realized what was happening, but did not speak. I was afraid, afraid even to think.

"I am not sincere, do not say everything ..."

And Ferpierre, seeing that on the following pages not talk about the drama, was stopped after
more to ponder what I had read.

Between these two souls had suggested the temptation, but who had received was man, not woman!
The last words: "I am not sincere, do not say everything ..." meant " perhaps not accusing her
husband because she does not, for his part, he was clean of sin? Even if the judge with little
experience thought impossible, even though there already anticipated the day when the quiet
affection of a husband too old not sufficient to wife too young, the idea that the Countess
would have fallen repugnant. Had taken Ferpierre such affection for the deceased person to
read your story, looked so noble and pure, felt on every page of this confession so naive
sincerity, that the sense naturally the reluctance appeared justified. "I was afraid of thinking.
I am not sincere, I do not say everything ... "Do not think, at the time of writing these words,
the betrayal husband whom she had devoted all her love, betrayal of those who had doubted
his unworthy of possessing it believing love, who had promised to
dedicate her life to deserve it to preserve it, was it a serious fault,
and her undeserved punishment?

Do not think that the man had lied or had boasted of a force that was missing? If you also disturbing
about it had acted seductions, and had learned to tame them and away, it which in the opinion
of the world would have been more excusable to receive them, was it not natural to judge severely
weak man? All the pain that disappointment, that the science of unexpected bad until that day
were awakened in the soul of the wife, was expressed in that sentence:
"I was afraid to think ..." and Ferpierre, reading it again, stated
in its explanation acknowledged that the unexpected solution was logical
illogical, or at least inattentive to the background, he had been
to provide an opposite outcome.

Was it natural that the Count d'Arda, having taken up the forty-four year life of the wealthy bachelor
necessarily dissipated without feeling the need early a legitimate affection is permanently
reduced to the existence of exemplary husband and content with the innocent love of that girl?
What was unacceptable, unlikely that the love wife, ignorant of the world, to circumscribe
all the joy of life in your new state?

The details of the drama Ferpierre escaped, but it's rebuilt with imagination. Another woman, a
woman at all other than the Countess, had seduced Luis d'Arda: he had tried to resist being persuaded
to commit an infamous traitor to the girl, giving the example of evil, he, who was not only a duty
but also the interest, advised to follow along the right path which initially had been planned, but
the temptation had expired. What do you think should suspect the Countess, that he himself had
given the death? That his soul elevated attributed to the husband's decision to punish, as
it had been unable to avoid the error? Or does the romantic imagination of the young suicide
saw where there was only an unfortunate accident?

Mystery in the mystery, but it should remain impenetrable, as the seal of death had closed and the
lips of the two authors the drama. The tantalizing, if still living, was the only one that had been
made clear, but in truth not matter and that the Count, succumbing to guilt against his will,
he wanted to punish with death, and prevented a worse punishment, as would have been to see
the drop in life wife who had taught the way of evil, or even thinking about all this, his
death would have been by chance. Continued with redoubled curiosity Ferpierre reading of reports,
looking for what was most urgent.

After the quick allusions to the catastrophe, the magistrate found no more than descriptions countries.
The young widow took her mourning from place to place, on the Rhine,
the Netherlands, Scotland, and only in the latter reports were dated.

It seemed that just as the experience had been a premature maturity, his thinking and his style
had been strengthened equal proportions: some landscapes were painted
with sober touches, but vigorously, the Images were crisp and clear.

Here and there among the descriptions, he sketches in pen and pencil, views of landscapes, reproductions
of types, the hand of the artist was both time graceful and strong.

Here and there appeared some moral judgments unrelated apparent with the neighboring notes,
and showed that behind the calm exterior a concern secret tormented
author.

Thus, for example, said:

"I do not know enough to regulate our external actions, it would be necessary to guide thinking intimate.
"

Did he mean by these words, free and single, he was, despite himself, besieged by persuasion
tempting to which yet he knew resist? And was not tired so be it natural?

"The law of forgiveness is necessary, because evil is universal, and
without it no one could have hope of salvation.

"

Is it derived from the abstract idea of ​​persuasion, or rather the conscience of any fault your personal?

Were
gradually coming into play other things: some pages are not read more than disquisitions about
the problems of life.

"The biggest injustice in the world: one is commendable that the proposed repair.

"There are two kinds of laws, of nature and the soul, and often the
ideal law is to operate against the printing materials.

At one time, this surprised me; not now. Get rid of the laws of nature is the highest needs
and the most noble efforts: the credit is to overcome the difficulties.

"Not many times, but always, there is opposition between the two kinds of laws, and in this life
can not suppress it, because nothing would exist without the effort.

This is the greatest test.

"Those who say it's silly to preach the equality of men because they are naturally unequal, do
not know they say a moral heresy. You might as well say it's silly to preach sacrifice because
selfishness is a law of nature. If love is ourselves our first real need to suppress and postpone
love for others should be the first ideal necessity. Men are different from birth, and this suggests
unpleasant truth the idea of ​​equalization.

These are ideas that seem simple, but he describes them of rare. "

The increased attention of the judge at that point. That "he" would not the Prince Alejo Petrow?
Did not dating these arguments about the social problem, the time
when the two lovers had known?

The narrator seemed to answer the question Ferpierre became mentally since the subject of reports
varied from one page to another and abstract speculations passed most intimate confessions.

"No,
I had not yet experienced such an embarrassment.

I would deny it, but I can not. This anxiety, this fever, I was unknown.

"I once read that love is one, and I thought the writer was lying or mistaken, because I did not
think there is more than a way to love.

No: the writer was right. The effect then does not resemble the turmoil of today: Luis, who had
more experience than me, I knew and not content with what I gave him. I doubted my love because
I saw no impetuous and vehement. So, too, my father doubted my happiness.

"I doubt I too now?

"The clouds move over the tops of the mountains, taking strange shapes,
interwoven as tapes, stretch as veils: one side of the lake has disappeared
behind them, the waters no longer have any limit, as a gulf opened
up a mysterious ocean.

I still hear her voice. I'm happy ...

"I am happy. The flame spreads of one soul to another, as one face to another. His words are
as the breath of an inner fire. Could I hide my thoughts? What if I wanted shut up, would not
have read it in my eyes?

"When we believe in one thing we deny all others: when we experience a feeling know the mixed
feelings or just different. This is the first instinct.

I seems to be no more than a month ago I started living. The reason admonishes, the heart remembers.
That's another thing ...

"Yes there are several types of love, is
there a better, more desirable, more real?

Is it necessary the voice of reason is no longer heard, that all memories are forgotten, that
a single idea overcomes all need one another and break all the barriers? ...

"His laughter hurt me today.

Would not have wanted to laugh when he heard the story of an act
heroic.

As great as is your trust, is deep and bitter skepticism ... Who
has done so?

Life, he says.

"The greater the pity that I had to hear him laugh at himself.

When she laughs with that fake laugh, I think it would have torn
something in his voice, his heart ...

"If it is true that our feelings
live one by one and if we deny ourselves the who have died, feeling
that he is alive needs to believe eternal.

Here is the error. The happiness I felt for days seemed indestructible.

Today is not destroyed, but troubled ...

"What a pain!

What a pain! I would never have guessed so much misery, so much pain! This is the first time
that someone I trust! And still laughing!

I do not want ...

"Your letter of today has made me happy beat of ineffable. If it were true! If I had that power
!...»

With this expression of doubt again be interrupted daily, as if the narrator would like, before
proceeding, do some experiment. But in the back pages there was more
order in the confessions.

"Life is more difficult than I thought."

This
reflection was all that was written on a page, and farther, still
another question:

"So is it presumption to believe that one is right?"

After
a few phrases of dark.

"By no means, but like to wait ...

"It is
not weakness, it is not surprising: I've thought through, trust me
smile, I see the finish line ...

"Now I am lost for words ..."

Under
a date: "June 18, 1890" was written:

"Before God, forever."

And
Ferpierre was to clarify the meaning of those words, relating so to
reconstruct the intimate story.

What was the candle plant was confirmed:
the idea of ​​doing good to the sick soul appeared Zakunine dominant
in the thinking of the Countess, with its softness and sweetness,
the law of attraction between opposites, would hold the impetuous
force, the rebel's indomitable ardor as sets out the gross wealth
which can extract a pure value. It was true that something simpler,
love alone, sufficient to explain the close relationship that had
formed between the two, and she gave an eloquent proof of his love
when he confessed that included the doubts of her husband and his
father about his happiness in the past.

The close of the era of construction is also marked by the death of those two remarkable men
whose influence has left the deepest imprint upon the institutions they helped to mould: John
Winthrop, who died in 1649, and John Cotton in 1652.

Winthrop's letters to his wife show him to have been tender and gentle, and that his disposition
was one to inspire love is proved by the affection those bore him who had suffered most at
his hands. Williams and Vane and Coddington kept their friendship for him to the end. But these
very qualities, so amiable in themselves, made him subject to the influence of men of inflexible
will. His dream was to create on earth a commonwealth of saints whose joy would be to walk
in the ways of God. But in practice he had to deal with the strongest of human passions. In
1634, though supported by Cotton, he was defeated by Dudley, and there can be no doubt that
this was caused by the defection of the body of the clergy. The evidence seems conclusive,
for the next year Vane brought about an interview between the two at which Haynes was present,
and there Haynes upbraided him with remissness in administering justice. [Footnote: Winthrop,
i. 178.] Winthrop agreed to leave the question to the ministers, who the next morning gave
an emphatic opinion in favor of strict discipline. Thenceforward he was pliant in their hands,
and with that day opened the dark epoch of his life. By leading the crusade against the Antinomians
he regained the confidence of the elders and they never again failed him; but in return they
exacted obedience to their will; and the rancor with which he pursued Anne Hutchinson, Gorton,
and Childe cannot be extenuated, and must ever be a stain upon his fame.

As Hutchinson points out, in early life his tendencies were liberal, but in America he steadily
grew narrow. The reason is obvious. The leader of an intolerant party has himself to be intolerant.
His claim to eminence as a statesman must rest upon the purity of his moral character, his
calm temper, and his good judgment; for his mind was not original or brilliant, nor was his
thought in advance of his age. Herein he differed from his celebrated contemporary, for among
the long list of famous men, who are the pride of Massachusetts, there are few who in mere
intellectual capacity outrank Cotton. He was not only a profound scholar, an eloquent preacher,
and a famous controversialist, but a great organizer, and a natural politician. He it was who
constructed the Congregational hierarchy; his publications were the accepted authority both
abroad and at home; and the system which he developed in his books was that which was made
law by the Cambridge Platform.

Of medium height, florid complexion, and as he grew old some tendency to be stout, but with
snowy hair and much personal dignity, he seems to have had an irresistible charm of manner
toward those whom he wished to attract.

Comprehending thoroughly the feelings and prejudices of the clergy, he influenced them even
more by his exquisite tact than by his commanding ability; and of easy fortune and hospitable
alike from inclination and from interest, he entertained every elder who went to Boston. He
understood the art of flattery to perfection; or, as Norton expressed it, "he was a man of
ingenuous and pious candor, rejoicing (as opportunity served) to take notice of and testifie
unto the gifts of God in his brethren, thereby drawing the hearts of them to him...." [Footnote:
Norton's Funeral Sermon, p. 37.] No other clergyman has ever been able to reach the position
he held with apparent ease, which amounted to a sort of primacy of New England. His dangers
lay in the very fecundity of his mind. Though hampered by his education and profession, he
was naturally liberal; and his first miscalculation was when, almost immediately on landing,
he supported Winthrop, who was in disgrace for the mildness of his administration, against
the austerer Dudley.

The consciousness of his intellectual superiority seems to have given him an almost overweening
confidence in his ability to induce his brethren to accept the broader theology he loved to
preach; nor did he apparently realize that comprehension was incompatible with a theocratic
government, and that his success would have undermined the organization he was laboring to
perfect. He thus committed the error of his life in undertaking to preach a religious reformation,
without having the resolution to face a martyrdom. But when he saw his mistake, the way in
which he retrieved himself showed a consummate knowledge of human nature and of the men with
whom he had to deal. Nor did he ever forget the lesson. From that time forward he took care
that no one should be able to pick a flaw in his orthodoxy; and whatever he may have thought
of much of the policy of his party, he was always ready to defend it without flinching.

Neither he nor Winthrop died too soon, for with the completion of the task of organization
the work that suited them was finished, and they were unfit for that which remained to be done.
An oligarchy, whose power rests on faith and not on force, can only exist by extirpating all
who openly question their pretensions to preeminent sanctity; and neither of these men belonged
to the class of natural persecutors,--the one was too gentle, the other too liberal. An example
will show better than much argument how little in accord either really was with that spirit
which, in the regular course of social development, had thenceforward to dominate over Massachusetts.

Captain Partridge had fought for the Parliament, and reached Boston at the beginning of the
winter of 1645. He was arrested and examined as a heretic. The magistrates referred the case
to Cotton, who reported that "he found him corrupt in judgment," but "had good hope to reclaim
him." [Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 251.] An instant recantation was demanded; it was of course
refused, and, in spite of all remonstrance, the family was banished in the snow. Winthrop's
sad words were: "But sure, the rule of hospitality to strangers, and of seeking to pluck out
of the fire such as there may be hope of, ... do seem to require more moderation and indulgence
of human infirmity where there appears not obstinacy against the clear truth." [Footnote: Winthrop,
ii. 251.]

But in the savage and bloody struggle that was now at hand there was no place for leaders capable
of pity or remorse, and the theocracy found supremely gifted chieftains in John Norton and
John Endicott.

Norton approaches the ideal of the sterner orders of the priesthood. A gentleman by birth and
breeding, a ripe scholar, with a keen though polished wit, his sombre temper was deeply tinged
with fanaticism. Unlike so many of his brethren, temporal concerns were to him of but little
moment, for every passion of his gloomy soul was intensely concentrated on the warfare he believed
himself waging with the fiend. Doubt or compassion was impossible, for he was commissioned
by the Lord. He was Christ's elected minister, and misbelievers were children of the devil
whom it was his sacred duty to destroy. He knew by the Word of God that all save the orthodox
were lost, and that heretics not only perished, but were the hirelings of Satan, who tempted
the innocent to their doom; he therefore hated and feared them more than robbers or murderers.
Words seemed to fail him when he tried to express his horror: "The face of death, the King
of Terrours, the living man by instinct turneth his face from. An unusual shape, a satanical
phantasm, a ghost, or apparition, affrights the disciples. But the face of heresie is of a
more horrid aspect than all ... put together, as arguing some signal inlargement of the power
of darkness as being diabolical, prodigeous, portentous." [Footnote: Heart of New Eng. Rent,
p. 46.] By nature, moreover, he had in their fullest measure the three attributes of a preacher
of a persecution,--eloquence, resolution, and a heart callous to human suffering. To this formidable
churchman was joined a no less formidable magistrate.

No figure in our early history looms out of the past like Endicott's. The harsh face still
looks down from under the black skull-cap, the gray moustache and pointed beard shading the
determined mouth, but throwing into relief the lines of the massive jaw. He is almost heroic
in his ferocious bigotry and daring,--a perfect champion of the church.

The grim Puritan soldier is almost visible as, standing at the head of his men, he tears the
red cross from the flag, and defies the power of England; or, in that tremendous moment, when
the people were hanging breathless on the fate of Christison, when insurrection seemed bursting
out beneath his feet, and his judges shrunk aghast before the peril, we yet hear the savage
old man furiously strike the table, and, thanking God that he at least dares to do his duty,
we see him rise alone before that threatening multitude to condemn the heretic to death.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ANABAPTISTS.

The Rev. Thomas Shepard, pastor of Charlestown, was such an example, "in word, in conversation,
in civility, in spirit, in faith, in purity, that he did let no man despise his youth;" [Footnote:
Magnalia, bk. 4, ch. ix. Section 6.] and yet, preaching an election sermon before the governor
and magistrates, he told them that "anabaptisme ... hath ever been lookt at by the godly leaders
of this people as a scab." [Footnote: Eye Salve, p. 24.] While the Rev. Samuel Willard, president
of Harvard, declared that "such a rough thing as a New England Anabaptist is not to be handled
over tenderly." [Footnote: Ne Sutor, p. 10.]

So early as 1644, therefore, the General Court "Ordered and agreed, yt if any person or persons
within ye iurisdiction shall either openly condemne or oppose ye baptizing of infants, or go
about secretly to seduce others from ye app'bation or use thereof, or shall purposely depart
ye congregation at ye administration of ye ordinance, ... and shall appear to ye Co't willfully
and obstinately to continue therein after due time and meanes of conviction, every such person
or persons shallbe sentenced to banishment." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. ii. 85. 13 November, 1644.]

The legislation, however, was unpopular, for Winthrop relates that in October, 1645, divers
merchants and others petitioned to have the act repealed, because of the offense taken thereat
by the godly in England, and the court seemed inclined to accede, "but many of the elders ...
entreated that the law might continue still in force, and the execution of it not suspended,
though they disliked not that all lenity and patience should be used for convincing and reclaiming
such erroneous persons. Whereupon the court refused to make any further order." [Footnote:
Winthrop, ii. 251.] And Edward Winslow assured Parliament in 1646, when sent to England to
represent the colony, that, some mitigation being desired, "it was answered in my hearing.
'T is true we have a severe law, but wee never did or will execute the rigor of it upon any....
But the reason wherefore wee are loath either to repeale or alter the law is, because wee would
have it ... to beare witnesse against their judgment, ... which we conceive ... to bee erroneous."
[Footnote: Hypocrisie Unmasked, 101.]

Unquestionably, at that time no one had been banished; but in 1644 "one Painter, for refusing
to let his child be baptized, ... was brought before the court, where he declared their baptism
to be anti-Christian. He was sentenced to be whipped, which he bore without flinching, and
boasted that God had assisted him." [Footnote: Hutch. Hist. i. 208, note.] Nor was his a solitary
instance of severity. Yet, notwithstanding the scorn and hatred which the orthodox divines
felt for these sectaries, many very eminent Puritans fell into the errors of that persuasion.
Roger Williams was a Baptist, and Henry Dunster, for the same heresy, was removed from the
presidency of Harvard, and found it prudent to end his days within the Plymouth jurisdiction.
Even that great champion of infant baptism, Jonathan Mitchell, when thrown into intimate relations
with Dunster, had doubts.

"That day ... after I came from him I had a strange experience; I found hurrying and pressing
suggestions against Paedobaptism, and injected scruples and thoughts whether the other way
might not be right, and infant baptism an invention of men; and whether I might with good conscience
baptize children and the like. And these thoughts were darted in with some impression, and
left a strange confusion and sickliness upon my spirit. Yet, methought, it was not hard to
discern that they were from the Evil One; ... And it made me fearful to go needlessly to Mr.
D.; for methought I found a venom and poison in his insinuations and discourses against Paedobaptism."
[Footnote: Magnalia, bk. 4, ch. iv. Section 10.]

Henry Dunster was an uncommon man. Famed for piety in an age of fanaticism, learned, modest,
and brave, by the unremitting toil of thirteen years he raised Harvard from a school to the
position which it has since held; and though very poor, and starving on a wretched and ill-
paid pittance, he gave his beloved college one hundred acres of land at the moment of its sorest
need. [Footnote: Quincy's History of Harvard, i. 15.] Yet he was a criminal, for he would not
baptize infants, and he met with the "lenity and patience" which the elders were not unwilling
should be used toward the erring.

He was indicted and convicted of disturbing church ordinances, and deprived of his office in
October, 1654. He asked for leave to stay in the house he had built for a few months, and his
petition in November ought to be read to understand how heretics were made to suffer:--

"1st. The time of the year is unseasonable, being now very near the shortest day, and the depth
of winter.

"2d. The place unto which I go is unknown to me and my family, and the ways and means of subsistance....

"3d. The place from which I go hath fire, fuel, and all provisions for man and beast, laid
in for the winter.... The house I have builded upon very damageful conditions to myself, out
of love for the college, taking country pay in lieu of bills of exchange on England, or the
house would not have been built....

"4th. The persons, all beside myself, are women and children, on whom little help, now their
minds lie under the actual stroke of affliction and grief. My wife is sick, and my youngest
child extremely so, and hath been for months, so that we dare not carry him out of doors, yet
much worse now than before.... Myself will willingly bow my neck to any yoke of personal denial,
for I know for what and for whom, by grace I suffer." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 18.]

He had before asked Winthrop to cause the government to pay him what it owed, and he ended
his prayer in these words: "Considering the poverty of the country, I am willing to descend
to the lowest step; and if nothing can comfortably be allowed, I sit still appeased; desiring
nothing more than to supply me and mine with food and raiment." [Footnote: Idem, i. 20.] He
received that mercy which the church has ever shown to those who wander from her fold; he was
given till March, and then, with dues unpaid, was driven forth a broken man, to die in poverty
and neglect.

But Jonathan Mitchell, pondering deeply upon the wages he saw paid at his very hearthstone,
to the sin of his miserable old friend, snatched his own soul from Satan's jaws. And thenceforward
his path lay in pleasant places, and he prospered exceedingly in the world, so that "of extream
lean he grew extream fat; and at last, in an extream hot season, a fever arrested him, just
after he had been preaching.... Wonderful were the lamentations which this deplorable death
fill'd the churches of New England withal.... Yea ... all New England shook when that pillar
fell to the ground." [Footnote: Magnalia, bk. 4, ch. iv. Section 16.]

Notwithstanding, therefore, clerical promises of gentleness, Massachusetts was not a comfortable
place of residence for Baptists, who, for the most part, went to Rhode Island; and John Clark
[Footnote: For sketch of Clark's life see Allen's Biographical Dictionary.] became the pastor
of the church which they formed at Newport about 1644. He had been born about 1610, and had
been educated in London as a physician. In 1637 he landed at Boston, where he seems to have
become embroiled in the Antinomian controversy; at all events, he fared so ill that, with several
others, he left Massachusetts 'resolving, through the help of Christ, to get clear of all [chartered
companies] and be of ourselves.' In the course of their wanderings they fell in with Williams,
and settled near him.

Clark was perhaps the most prominent man in the Plantations, filled many public offices, and
was the commissioner who afterward secured for the colony the famous charter that served as
the State Constitution till 1842.

Obediah Holmes, who succeeded him as Baptist minister of Newport, is less well known. He was
educated at Oxford, and when he emigrated he settled at Salem; from thence he went to Seaconk,
where he joined the church under Mr. Newman. Here he soon fell into trouble for resisting what
he maintained was an "unrighteous act" of his pastor's; in consequence he and several more
renounced the communion, and began to worship by themselves; they were baptized and thereafter
they were excommunicated; the inevitable indictment followed, and they, too, took refuge in
Rhode Island. [Footnote: Holmes's Narrative, Backus, i. 213.]

William Witter [Footnote: For the following events, see "Ill Newes from New England" Mass.
Hist. Coll. fourth series, vol. ii.] of Lynn was an aged Baptist, who had already been prosecuted,
but, in 1651, being blind and infirm, he asked the Newport church to send some of the brethren
to him, to administer the communion, for he found himself alone in Massachusetts. [Footnote:
Backus, i. 215.] Accordingly Clark undertook the mission, with Obediah Holmes and John Crandall.

They reached Lynn on Saturday, July 19, 1651, and on Sunday stayed within doors in order not
to disturb the congregation. A few friends were present, and Clark was in the midst of a sermon,
when the house was entered by two constables with a warrant signed by Robert Bridges, commanding
them to arrest certain "erroneous persons being strangers." The travellers were at once seized
and carried to the tavern, and after dinner they were told that they must go to church.

Gorton, like many another, had to go through this ordeal, and he speaks of his Sundays with
much feeling: "Only some part of those dayes they brought us forth into their congregations,
to hear their sermons ... which was meat to be digested, but only by the heart or stomacke
of an ostrich." [Footnote: Simplicitie's Defence, p. 57.]

The unfortunate Baptists remonstrated, saying that were they forced into the meeting-house,
they should be obliged to dissent from the service, but this, the constable said, was nothing
to him, and so he carried them away. On entering, during the prayer, the prisoners took off
their hats, but presently put them on again and began reading in their seats. Whereupon Bridges
ordered the officers to uncover their heads, which was done, and the service was then quietly
finished. When all was over, Clark asked leave to speak, which, after some hesitation, was
granted, on condition he would not discuss what he had heard. He began to explain how he had
put on his hat because he could not judge that they were gathered according to the visible
order of the Lord; but here he was silenced, and the three were committed to custody for the
night. On Tuesday they were taken to Boston, and on the 31st were brought before Governor Endicott.
Their trial was of the kind reserved by priests for heretics. No jury was impanelled, no indictment
was read, no evidence was heard, but the prisoners were reviled by the bench as Anabaptists,
and when they repudiated the name were asked if they did not deny infant baptism. The theological
argument which followed was cut short by a recommitment to await sentence.

That afternoon John Cotton exhorted the judges from the pulpit. He expounded the law, and commanded
them to do their duty; he told them that the rejection of infant baptism would overthrow the
church; that this was a capital crime, and therefore the captives were "foul murtherers." [Footnote:
Ill Newes, p. 56.] Thus inspired, the court came in toward evening.

The record recites a number of misdemeanors, such as wearing the hat in church, administering
the communion to the excommunicated, and the like, but no attempt was made to prove a single
charge. [Footnote: Ill Newes, pp. 31-44.] The reason is obvious: the only penalty provided
by statute for the offence of being a Baptist was banishment, hence the only legal course would
have been to dismiss the accused. Endicott condemned them to fines of twenty, thirty, and five
pounds, respectively, or to be whipped. Clark understood his position perfectly, and from the
first had demanded to be shown the law under which he was being tried. He now, after sentence,
renewed the request. 

ROBERTO DI FEDERICO

SPASM

BUENOS AIRES

1909

INDEX

I. - The fact
II .-- The first investigations III .-- The memories of Roberto candle
plant IV .-- Story of a Soul V. - Duel VI .-- Research VII .-- Confession
VIII .-- The letter IX .-- Spasm

To raise awareness of the Italian
romantic literature, in its most modern in recent trends, we could
hardly have found something more to the point that authors like Federico
di Roberto and a book like spasm.

Federico di Roberto have now thirty-six years.

Is Sicilian, as Dick, the author of Cavalleria rusticana, with which
his literary talent presents some resemblance.

   As Dick, also
  is a realist, the realist who
 holds the light color native island.
  Its novels are of great dramatic
   intensity
  - even when kept in its
 guidelines a impeccable
elegance - something
  aristocratic in the design and shape, as revealed in all pages that
characterize the young writer a happy way.

With Arabeseos e Short stories brilliantly began his literary career, in which, despite being
in its inception has achieved success in resonance with I Vicera and we offer today this spasm
Argentine readers, whose direct translation of the language in which
it was written deserved special care from us.

In the drama that unfolds in this book involves intense and conflicting passions. Your environment
is a city in Switzerland, the refugee drama unfolds between nihilists, and the ardent struggle
the duty imposed by the political faith against a violent passion and captivating. Upon such
contrast, resulting in exciting scenes and characters intensely moving human underlying the
plot of this novel, about which we will say no more to not spoil the deep and sincere emotion
it produces in the reader's mind.

As you can easily notice, Federico di Roberto represented in modern
literature Italy a new note for us to fully differentiated D'Annunzio,
Fogazzaro and D'Amicis, who are the best known Italian novelist abroad.

And, reading Spasm we are confident that readers of good taste we shall have made them known account
embodies a strong talent that can be said, the new way of romantic Italian literature at this time.

SPASM

I

THE
FACT

Everyone who spent the fall of 1894 on the shores of Lake Geneva, no doubt remember yet the tragic
event of Ouchy, which was so impressive and so abundantly provided
food for curiosity, not just the people on holiday camps scattered
in all stations in the lake, but also the cosmopolitan public, which
the newspapers reported it.

On October 5, few minutes before noon, the sound of a gunshot and screams confused coming out of
the village Cyclamens, located in the middle of the road to Lausanne Ouchy, interrupted violently
usual tranquility of the place and attracted the neighbors and passersby. The Cyclamens villa was
rented to a Milanese lady, the Countess d'Arda, who had charge of
all the years, from June to November.

Countess friendship with Prince Alexius Zakunine, revolutionary Russian
who had been sentenced first in his country, expelled at once from
all States refugee Europe and recently in the territory of the Confederation,
was known from time ago.

The two lovers were in the village the day of the tragedy and the shouting, the same Prince Zakunine,
along with the detonation of the weapon, they go to the terrified servants, whose eyes appeared
a tremendous spectacle: the Countess lay lifeless at the foot of the bed perforated the right
temple by a bullet and a gun near his hand.

And even though the view of death, sudden and violent death, is such that no other the outdo
in horror, the presence of that body was not, however, which produced a thrill strong, but the appearance
of the survivor. Like a pale striped azalea crusade red, cold face of the unhappy, partially
stained with blood, was the color of wax, but it revealed nothing of the agony of contractions:
on the contrary, a serene confidence and something like a smile encouraged him still alive, slightly apart
the purple lips, behind which loomed just line the pearly teeth, open eyelids, the eyes turned
toward the sky, the dead appeared to be ecstatic, as if it had not abandoned the existence
of all, willing to testify that out of human life in silence and
in shade, had finally found the well-being and happiness.

Pale, haggard factions, hair in disarray over his forehead drenched in icy sweat, mad the eyes, trembling
lips, hands, whole body, as if it were a prey to fever, Alejo Prince instilled fear. After
asking for help and shouting hoarsely, had knelt beside the body and hugged him, all bloody,
and his troubled face no more than two words out short and boring:

- It's over! ... It's over! ...

In those words, the accent torn repeated that there was a breakdown, a bitterness, despair
so great that the dead no longer seemed to deserve such compassion as alive as inconsolable
man, overwhelmed by grief, it seemed, he also close to losing his breath. And sometimes, when his
hands got tired of caressing hands the hair, the clothes of the dead, carried them around the neck
with violent gesture, as if I would like to strangle, then the servants, all who had come, sought
to comfort, to wrest this cruel spectacle, but he, with wild momentum, rejected all from him,
stretched out his arms, stopped, and after walking unsteadily, if he were drunk, the fourth mortuary,
I fell back beside the body.

The villa was open to all, no one thought to prevent access. In the nearby House of Health had
come promptly Dr. Berard, who had only been able to verify death instant. The news was spreading
rapidly among the foreign colony, and curious flocked to the village,
especially those who knew the Countess and Prince, but no one could
get news of what happened, unless the servants.

Seemed Zakunine deaf and blind, unable to recognize people who approached
him, trying to shake hand, or hear the words of condolence, sympathy
sore phrases addressed to him.

Nor are the responses of the servants threw much light on the incident. Referring only to external
circumstances of the disaster, told everyone that the Prince had become to the town two days
earlier, after an absence of several weeks, that the lady had up this morning earlier than
usual and had remained an hour in the roof, while his partner worked at the desk, with a lady
who had arrived as at nine, that lunch before the countess had been sent to the city, with orders,
Julia, the Italian girl who had long-standing, that, when it was lunch to be served, the shot
had made everyone shudder: that the second floor, where they were
rooms at patterns, had launched the Prince on the ground floor like
a madman, asking to call a doctor, and that all had gone headlong
into the room of the Countess, where the foreigner, after trying in
vain to rescue it, had treated equally in vain, to console the despairing
prince.

Amid the confusion, few had noticed the presence of the foreign. This was a young just twenty
years, blond hair saffron, short, hair like a man clear eyes and look cool, rather small stature,
was dressed in black from head to toe. Right remained motionless in the corner of a window, arms
folded, head bowed, and hardly realized his presence curiosity began to stir.

In the circle that formed the most curious of these was the Baroness de Born Austrian woman, thick
and short, the only sex who had come to the village, and stared at the stranger, overwhelming
at the same time with your questions to the servants, those not knowing what to say in mixed
groups to discuss what happened.

- Poor girl ... Poor !...-- friend Baroness exclaimed .-- But why? ... How could he? ... What
has not written anything? Have not found anything left for her? ... There must be something ...
looking for ... Did he die at the moment? ... Suffered, it is true, but not so much that I could
not resist! ... He was strong, a very strong woman, despite her body thin and delicate ... Pains moral
...

And in a lower voice, addressed the young Englishman a red mustache,
blue eyes and bald forehead, he suggested:

- Do you believe that
to be happy?

The questioned responded with a vague gesture, which could mean both consent and doubt or ignorance.

-
And that poor Prince !...-- continued the Baroness, always looking for the low, continuous, foreign
to him .-- It is a pain and suffering ... Would need to persuade
someone that moved away ...-- And these words were aimed directly
at the young stranger; but as this did not answer, Baroness proposed:
- Why not put the body at least on the bed?

Speaking from the group around the corpse, and, seeing that the bystanders, approved their comments
sought and obtained to be allowed to pass.

Then came the Prince, which was currently leaning against the bed, arms hanging, hands and contracted
lost eyes still turned towards the dead.

- We can not leave her like this ... we want to put it on the bed ... Do you?

But he did not answer, or even seemed to have heard, and the Baroness put a hand on shoulder,
trembled as if shaken by a magnetic current, his gaze lost, lost,
disconsolate expressed an anxiety so awful that the loquacious lady
found that for a moment lacked the words.

- What a disgrace ... What
pain troubled !...-- said .-- There are, however, to have power enough
to resign themselves to fate!

... Doctor - he added, turning to Berard, who approached at that
time the Prince .-- We would remove the body there ... I suppose at
times that the poor little suffering on the ground!

... And all these people, do not it could ask to go away?

- Yes ... ...-- a doctor replied hesitantly, not knowing what to do .-- But before solving all,
we must wait for the judges ...

- Have they been notified?

- Here they come.

Indeed, the murmur of voices had become extinct in the next room, and in that instantly entered
the circuit magistrate in Lausanne, the police commissioner, a physician
and two gendarmes.

The first thing the judge did was to order him away to the mortuary of the room indiscreet and the room,
and complete this order, the police were placed in the door between that room with the other
little room, to keep people back.

Only kept the body, foreign, Dr. Berard, and his colleague from the police, who explained the
futility of all healing and rapid death, the Baroness de Born, that without anyone being asked,
reported what happened to the judge it, Prince and the commissioner.

- What do you attribute his fatal decision?

Was not there some were that he should expect? - Asked the judge, and the Baroness, despite being
unable to shut up, by that time simply shrugged shoulders and look
to the Prince, to signify that this was the only one who could answer.

Zakunine ran a hand across his forehead, as if waking from a deep sleep and said:

- Yes, you had to foresee ... Because I foresee ...

- Did he suffer
much?

- I suffered so much ... !...-- both said the Prince, with
a tone of deep sadness, that the same judge was shocked.

- Was he
sick? - Asked the court to the doctor, after a brief silence.

- Yes,
from a chest condition.

- Did what he had?

- Certainly.

It was impossible to hide anything. He was so intelligent and courageous, which lies were useless
with her compassionate.

- You could not hope to save her?

- His illness was one of those on the outcome of which can not be
cheating, but that by appropriate arrangements can live many years
yet.

- So it is not the only disease that has driven to kill?

-
It's not all - echoed Prince Alexius.

Very curious, almost comical, it was during interrogation that sad
attitude Baroness Borne, which, since he could not speak pursed her
lips, moving his eyes, shook his head, bent around the body, as if
repeated on the judge's questions and confirm the doctor's answers
and Prince, to see that she had provided the one and the other, and
also noted by signs that she had one observation.

And once then interrupted:

- That's it ... Also!

... Exactly! ... And with the religious feelings I had ...

- What were they? - Asked the judge.

- Few women I have known such strong faith and ardent - said the doctor.

-
Is it true ?...-- Baroness interrupted again .-- It seems incredible
how big it was his fervor!

I have a reason to know. There was a walk without an end not a church. His favorite trips were
Echallens district to Bretigny to Assens, Villars-le-Terroir, because
of the churches there was Catholic.

Sundays and holidays we spent hours here in San Luis, kneeling to
her missing forces ... And that was the point that I wanted to ask
you: who else is amazing how, with so much faith, was able to do what
he has done.

The prince did not speak. Nervous tremor shook him at first was calming down, the turbulent,
violent, terrifying expression on his face pale and his eyes went red transforming: pale, exhausted,
powerless, he also appeared next to fall.

- She was alone when he killed himself?

- Sola.

- Did you speak to her this morning?

- Yes, spoke to her.

- Were you sad?

- Mortality.

- We could see if something has stopped writing.

Baroness clapped his hands and exclaimed:

- That's what I have said from the beginning!

The commissioner, a judge's signal, began to search.

There was little furniture in the room of the dead.

The bed, a wardrobe with mirror, a dresser, a small desk placed against
the window, in broad daylight, and at an angle a work table, was all
that was the household.

On the desk were two stacks of books in English white covers, a box
of paper; an old candy box, and a travel bag.

Working on the coffee table and nightstand were more books. The commissioner was recording one
one, opened the drawers of furniture, none of which was locked, and then to take a look at the feminine
elegance objects that were full, returned to the close. On the desk was the correspondence of
the deceased, in cardboard boxes rather old and a bag of Italian and French values ​​and a
few thousand pesos in gold and silver. At the bottom of the drawer on the right found the commissioner
a as a book case lined in black velvet, and closed with a tiny key, and going to open it, when the
Prince took a step toward him, saying:

- This is a book of memories ... the day of your life ...

From the tone that made such an indication, by the attitude of his whole person, it seemed like
defend against prying eyes thinking of her poor intimate friend,
but the Baroness Borne said, approaching the court, which had been
in the hands of the Commissioner extracted by this book of his black
box:

- Sinovac can find something!

...

Also the book's cover was black, with silver clasps, like a book and mortuary single view expressed
sadness and pain that must have embittered the life of that unhappy. The judge quickly ran
Covers: the letter was rather large, thin, very striking, elegant
and admirable clarity.

Almost three quarters of the book were written.

The judge devoted the most attention to the last pages, but after reading this, let hung his
head and:

- It is not clear - he said - not a confession ...

Meanwhile, the Commissioner continued his research in a small adjoining
room the dressing room, where another closet, the lavatory and chests
all over the place occupied available.

But even there he found no letter.

Then returned to the bedroom, through him, and entered the room: there the record was even shorter
or useless, because apart from the couch and chairs, only had a table full of small objects
of use, and then the piano, on which looked a notebook Pessard compositions. And the sheriff returned
on their own steps, when the sound of voices, cries of anguish he turned back, the police, obedient
to the orders they had received, preventing the entrance of a woman dressed in dark, head wearing
the black veil of the Lombard Village People.

- Ah, sir! Ah, sir !...-- exclaimed the woman, clasping her hands, skinny face, furrowed by hot tears
.-- I see it! ... Seeing it again! ... My employer ... my good mistress!

Ah, sir, to see it! ...

It was Julia, who at that time returning from the city.

Short and thin, somewhat advanced in years, seemed overwhelmed by anxiety.

- Let her go - ordered the judge, whom the Baroness explained that the Countess's maid for many years,
this woman had enjoyed his confidence.

And when he came, sobbing and tearful, hands together, and advanced to the corpse, nervous shudder
before it turned to move the body of the Prince on his face re-read that fainting with terror,
that awful pain, as if the view a person facing death, his presence there, did intensify their
torment. No looked at the corpse, but the weeping woman, and seemed to approach, together
with her to join the pains of the two to talk about death, to hear her talk it. All men of
justice, doctors, even to the Baroness were impressed anxious for that unfortunate attitude:
only foreign motionless and rigid, impassive and almost without looking at anyone.

- She said and done! ... He has done what he said !...-- women wailed beside the body .-- wanted death,
called ... Ah, poor thing! ... Ah, gentlemen ... And I sent out, sent me ... to be free ...
Not to read it in the face! Ah, if I had been with her! ... Many times, poor thing, how many times
prayed to God to make her die! ... And they have killed repeated !...-- even more distressed voice, as if until
that time has been doubt and wait, and suddenly undoubtedly received confirmation of such misfortune.
Have been killed! ... She's dead! Lord! Lord ...

Baroness ran a hand across his eyes, sighed and pulled her to his chest to the maid.

- Enough, enough, poor woman ... There is no choice but to comply! ... Calm down you !.... Basta!
... It is best that you tell these gentlemen, justice, where are
the commanded you?

What sent her?

- In the city, to pay some bills ... to buy things ... I do not know
anymore ... It seemed, when got out of bed, as if to go with me ...
then changed his mind and sent me ...

- Given to you a letter?

Do you know if he wrote a letter last night or this morning?

- Last
night, no: this morning.

This morning I wrote a letter.

- Who was targeted?

- A Sister Anne

-
Who is Sister Ann? - Asked the judge, who had left the verbose lady
patiently make the interrogation.

- Sister Anne Brighton, his former
English teacher.

- Where?

- Do not know.

In the envelope was the name of the place, a foreign name.

- Do
you not know that address? - Asked the judge, turning to Prince Alexis.

-
The know, but ...

His anxiety seemed to be calming down.

I was about to say something, when he heard in the background room to the police officers who prevented
anyone from entering.

But this time the unexpected person never complained, not crying,
vibrant voice, irritated and almost imperative, said:

- Let me go!

... I need to go, I say!

...

While the commissioner would see who he was, and Baroness Bérard approached
Borne at the door.

- Candle plant! - Baroness cried when she saw
a tall, burly, black hair and mustache blonde, who decided to force
the slogan, came in a hurry when the guards, a sign of his superior,
is pushed aside.

But after making his attempt and move quickly the first steps, the newcomer seemed suddenly
hesitated, uncertain: the irritation he lit his face was giving way to confusion and distress. When
you reach the threshold and see the body was hand over his heart,
leaned against the doorframe, intense pale, almost about to faint.

-
Our poor friend! - Baroness cried again, holding out his right hand
as if to to comfort, inspire courage .-- Who would have thought!

... Does not seem like a dream? ... Poor poor friend!

... And kill ...

But the young man said, advancing one step in a loud voice said:

- No.

A movement of concern and shock went through the present.

- What do you say? - Asked the judge, approaching candle plant and
staring eyes.

- I say that this lady was not killed.

I say that has been murdered.

His voice echoed strangely, seemed to speak in a vacuum, so ice was
silence that reigned around him, so bewildered and tempers were surprised
of all present.

Prince Alexis, erect, motionless, high forehead, looked also stared
at his unexpected accuser.

- How can you sure? - Even the judge asked.

-
I know.

- What evidence do you have?

- No test material.

All moral certainties.

- Who do you think is dead?

The young man extended his arm, pointed his index and foreign Prince,
and said:

All present turned their astonished gaze toward the defendants.

At

first the Prince's face remained expressionless Zakunine had, it seemed that he had not heard
or had not understood, but little by little, a bitter and ironic contraction of the lips,
a shrug of the eyebrows over his eyes suddenly sunk almost smiling, animated by an almost painful
laugh, showed a sense of amazement, disbelief and in a sense of fun,
so unexpected by awakened in his mind.

As the unknown, still with his arms folded across his chest, looking
at the accuser, without the statue's face and awakening from stupor.

Before you say anything against anyone - the judge said in a tone
of warning - it must be some of what is said.

- If it were true would
not have spoken.

- What interest can be armed arm these people?

The young man began to speak with a violence that vainly tried to
hold.

- The evil of the soul of each other, the savage pleasure to
do evil, to destroy a life, bloodshed.

The pleasure of ending with the death of the long martyrdom inflicted to that unhappy.

Her voice trembled, his hands were trembling too, his eyes were fraught with tears.
 Samuel must have been an exceptionally able man, for, though he failed to control
Saul, it was through his intrigues that David was enthroned, who was profoundly orthodox; yet
Solomon lapsed again into heresy, and Jeroboam added to schism the even blacker crime of making
"priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi," [Footnote: I Kings
xii. 31.] and in consequence he has come down to posterity as the man who made Israel to sin.
Ahab married Jezebel, who introduced the worship of Baal, and gave the support of government
to a rival church. She therefore roused a hate which has made her immortal; but it was not
until the reign of her son Jehoram that Elisha apparently felt strong enough to execute a plot
he had made with one of the generals to precipitate a revolution, in which the whole of the
house of Ahab should be murdered and the heretics exterminated. The awful story is told with
wonderful power in the Bible.

"Then they hasted, ... and blew with trumpets, saying, Jehu is king. And they smote them with
the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out....

"Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel." [Footnote: 2 Kings ix., x.]

Viewed from the standpoint of comparative history, the policy of theocratic Massachusetts toward
the Quakers was the necessary consequence of antecedent causes, and is exactly parallel with
the massacre of the house of Ahab by Elisha and Jehu. The power of a dominant priesthood depended
on conformity, and the Quakers absolutely refused to conform; nor was this the blackest of
their crimes: they believed that the Deity communicated directly with men, and that these revelations
were the highest rule of conduct. Manifestly such a doctrine was revolutionary. The influence
of all ecclesiastics must ultimately rest upon the popular belief that they are endowed with
attributes which are denied to common men. The syllogism of the New England elders was this:
all revelation is contained in the Bible; we alone, from our peculiar education, are capable
of interpreting the meaning of the Scriptures: therefore we only can declare the will of God.
But it was evident that, were the dogma of "the inner light" once accepted, this reasoning
must fall to the ground, and the authority of the ministry be overthrown. Necessarily those
who held so subversive a doctrine would be pursued with greater hate than less harmful heretics,
and thus contemplating the situation there is no difficulty in understanding why the Rev. John
Wilson, pastor of Boston, should have vociferated in his pulpit, that "he would carry fire
in one hand and faggots in the other, to burn all the Quakers in the world;" [Footnote: New
England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 124.] why the Rev. John Higginson should have denounced the "inner
light" as "a stinking vapour from hell;" [Footnote: Truth and Innocency Defended, ed. 1703,
p. 80.] why the astute Norton should have taught that "the justice of God was the devil's armour;"
[Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 9.] and why Endicott sternly warned the first comers,
"Take heed you break not our ecclesiastical laws, for then ye are sure to stretch by a halter."
[Footnote: Idem, p. 9.]

Nevertheless, this view has not commended itself to those learned clergymen who have been the
chief historians of the Puritan commonwealth. They have, on the contrary, steadily maintained
that the sectaries were the persecutors, since the company had exclusive ownership of the soil,
and acted in self-defence.

The case of Roger Williams is thus summed up by Dr. Dexter: "In all strictness and honesty
he persecuted them--not they him; just as the modern 'Come-outer,' who persistently intrudes
his bad manners and pestering presence upon some private company, making himself, upon pretence
of conscience, a nuisance there; is--if sane--the persecutor, rather than the man who forcibly
assists, as well as courteously requires, his desired departure." [Footnote: As to Roger Williams,
p. 90.]

Dr. Ellis makes a similar argument regarding the Quakers: "It might appear as if good manners,
and generosity and magnanimity of spirit, would have kept the Quakers away. Certainly, by every
rule of right and reason, they ought to have kept away. They had no rights or business here....
Most clearly they courted persecution, suffering, and death; and, as the magistrates affirmed,
'they rushed upon the sword.' Those magistrates never intended them harm, ... except as they
believed that all their successive measures and sharper penalties were positively necessary
to secure their jurisdiction from the wildest lawlessness and absolute anarchy." [Footnote:
Mass. and its Early History, p. 110] His conclusion is: "It is to be as frankly and positively
affirmed that their Quaker tormentors were the aggressive party; that they wantonly initiated
the strife, and with a dogged pertinacity persisted in outrages which drove the authorities
almost to frenzy...." [Footnote: Idem, p. 104]

The proposition that the Congregationalists owned the territory granted by the charter of Charles
I. as though it were a private estate, has been considered in an earlier chapter; and if the
legal views there advanced are sound, it is incontrovertible, that all peaceful British subjects
had a right to dwell in Massachusetts, provided they did not infringe the monopoly in trade.
The only remaining question, therefore, is whether the Quakers were peaceful. Dr. Ellis, Dr.
Palfrey, and Dr. Dexter have carefully collected a certain number of cases of misconduct, with
the view of proving that the Friends were turbulent, and the government had reasonable grounds
for apprehending such another outbreak as one which occurred a century before in Germany and
is known as the Peasants' War. Before, however, it is possible to enter upon a consideration
of the evidence intelligently, it is necessary to fix the chronological order of the leading
events of the persecution.

The twenty-one years over which it extended may be conveniently divided into three periods,
of which the first began in July, 1656, when Mary Fisher and Anne Austin came to Boston, and
lasted till December, 1661, when Charles II. interfered by commanding Endicott to send those
under arrest to England for trial. Hitherto John Norton had been preeminent, but in that same
December he was appointed on a mission to London, and as he died soon after his return, his
direct influence on affairs then probably ceased. He had been chiefly responsible for the hangings
of 1659 and 1660, but under no circumstances could they have been continued, for after four
heretics had perished, it was found impossible to execute Wenlock Christison, who had been
condemned, because of popular indignation.

Nevertheless, the respite was brief. In June, 1662, the king, in a letter confirming the charter,
excluded the Quakers from the general toleration which he demanded for other sects, and the
old legislation was forthwith revived; only as it was found impossible to kill the schismatics
openly, the inference, from what occurred subsequently, is unavoidable, that the elders sought
to attain their purpose by what their reverend historians call "a humaner policy," [Footnote:
As to Roger Williams, p. 134.] or, in plain English, by murdering them by flogging and starvation.
Nor was the device new, for the same stratagem had already been resorted to by the East India
Company, in Hindostan, before they were granted full criminal jurisdiction. [Footnote: Mill's
British India, i. 48, note.]

The Vagabond Act was too well contrived for compassing such an end, to have been an accident,
and portions of it strongly suggest the hand of Norton. It was passed in May, 1661, when it
was becoming evident that hanging must be abandoned, and its provisions can only be explained
on the supposition that it was the intention to make the infliction of death discretionary
with each magistrate. It provided that any foreign Quaker, or any native upon a second conviction,
might be ordered to receive an unlimited number of stripes. It is important also to observe
that the whip was a two-handed implement, armed with lashes made of twisted and knotted cord
or catgut. [Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 357, note.] There can be no doubt, moreover,
that sundry of the judgments afterward pronounced would have resulted fatally had the people
permitted their execution. During the autumn following its enactment this statute was suspended,
but it was revived in about ten months.

Endicott's death in 1665 marks the close of the second epoch, and ten comparatively tranquil
years followed. Bellingham's moderation may have been in part due to the interference of the
royal commissioners, but a more potent reason was the popular disgust, which had become so
strong that the penal laws could not be enforced.

A last effort was made to rekindle the dying flame in 1675, by fining constables who failed
in their duty to break up Quaker meetings, and offering one third of the penalty to the informer.
Magistrates were required to sentence those apprehended to the House of Correction, where they
were to be kept three days on bread and water, and whipped. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 60.] Several
suffered during this revival, the last of whom was Margaret Brewster. At the end of twenty-one
years the policy of cruelty had become thoroughly discredited and a general toleration could
no longer be postponed; but this great liberal triumph was only won by heroic courage and by
the endurance of excruciating torments. Marmaduke Stevenson, William Robinson, Mary Dyer, and
William Leddra were hanged, several were mutilated or branded, two at least are known to have
died from starvation and whipping, and it is probable that others were killed whose fate cannot
be traced. The number tortured under the Vagabond Act is unknown, nor can any estimate be made
of the misery inflicted upon children by the ruin and exile of parents.

The early Quakers were enthusiasts, and therefore occasionally spoke and acted extravagantly;
they also adopted some offensive customs, the most objectionable of which was wearing the hat;
all this is immaterial. The question at issue is not their social attractiveness, but the cause
whose consequence was a virulent persecution. This can only be determined by an analysis of
the evidence. If, upon an impartial review of the cases of outrage which have been collected,
it shall appear probable that the conduct of the Friends was sufficiently violent to make it
credible that the legislature spoke the truth, when it declared that "the prudence of this
court was exercised onely in making provission to secure the peace & order heere established
against theire attempts, whose designe (wee were well assured by our oune experjence, as well
as by the example of theire predecessors in Munster) was to vndermine & ruine the same;" [Footnote:
Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 385.] then the reverend historians of the theocracy must be considered
to have established their proposition. But if, on the other hand, it shall seem apparent that
the intense vindictiveness of this onslaught was due to the bigotry and greed of power of a
despotic priesthood, who saw in the spread of independent thought a menace to the ascendency
of their order, then it must be held to be demonstrated that the clergy of New England acted
in obedience to those natural laws, which have always regulated the conduct of mankind.

CHRONOLOGY.

1656, July. First Quakers came to Boston.

1656, 14 Oct. First act against Quakers passed. Providing that ship- masters bringing Quakers
should be fined L100. Quakers to be whipped and imprisoned till expelled. Importers of Quaker
books to be fined. Any defending Quaker opinions to be fined, first offence, 40s.; second,
L4; third, banishment.

1657, 14 Oct. By a supplementary act; Quakers returning after one conviction for first offence,
for men, loss of one ear; imprisonment till exile. Second offence, loss other ear, like imprisonment.
For females; first offence, whipping, imprisonment. Second offence, idem. Third offence, men
and women alike; tongue to be bored with a hot iron, imprisonment, exile. [Footnote: Mass.
Rec. vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 309.]

1658. In this year Rev. John Norton actively exerted himself to secure more stringent legislation;
procured petition to that effect to be presented to court.

1658, 19 Oct. Enacted that undomiciled Quakers returning from banishment should be hanged.
Domiciled Quakers upon conviction, refusing to apostatize, to be banished, under pain of death
on return. [Footnote: Idem, p. 346.]

Under this act the following persons were hanged:

1659, 27 Oct. Robinson and Stevenson hanged.

1660, 1 June. Mary Dyer hanged. (Previously condemned, reprieved, and executed for returning.)

1660-1661, 14 Mar. William Leddra hanged.

1661, June. Wenlock Christison condemned to death; released.

1661, 22 May. Vagabond Act. Any person convicted before a county magistrate of being an undomiciled
or vagabond Quaker to be stripped naked to the middle, tied to the cart's tail, and flogged
from town to town to the border. Domiciled Quakers to be proceeded against under Act of 1658
to banishment, and then treated as vagabond Quakers. The death penalty was still preserved
but not enforced. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 3.]

1661, 9 Sept. King Charles II. wrote to Governor Endicott directing the cessation of corporal
punishment in regard to Quakers, and ordering the accused to be sent to England for trial.

1661. 27 Nov. Vagabond Act suspended.

1662. 28 June. The company's agents, Bradstreet and Norton, received from the king his letter
of pardon, etc., wherein, however, Quakers are excepted from the demand made for religious
toleration.

1662, 8 Oct. Encouraged by the above letter the Vagabond law revived.

1664-5, 15 March. Death of John Endicott. Bellingham governor. Commissioners interfere on behalf
of Quakers in May. A bluish cloud crossed the fumes that surrounded the mountain and like a piece
of heaven. She replied: "Yes, but this is a hoax: the sky is closed." I replied: "Soon will open."
Gradually became covered the whole landscape, all colors had disappeared, there were no other colors
than white and the black: the mountains black, leaden water, the silver foam, the gray clouds,
sunrises puffs, puffs pale, iron-colored clouds. She said: "Does not it seem a watercolor?" I approve,
and then I added: "In this there is so much beauty as when the sun shines." I kept talking.
Added an inner light that illuminated my whole life, my eyes no longer saw everywhere else
what forms of beauty. His pale beauty was wonderful at this time, appeared to reflect all the
pale of nature around us. I took her hand. A heat of life transmitted from the hand to my body.
She withdrew, more pale. I said nothing, but the tears rushed to me in the eye. She said:
"You understand that we must part." My answer was: "His will is always fulfilled. If you want,
will depart tomorrow. Wait from afar. And if you want do not wait, do not feed more hope, try to forget.
Difficult it must be to destroy the hope that governs our life and think you know my pleasure,
my pride, my vanity, are to be as you wish ... "Everything had disappeared our view: the whiteness
of clouds, blackness of the forests are cleared and confused in a gray uniform. The rain began
to fall. She shuddered. I returned to turn his hand. I wanted to tell her that this was the
last salute, which could leave your hand in mine last time. I could not speak. She did not withdraw
his hand, and I still did not utter a syllable: a riot confused me ideas ...

- Would not you noticed the terrible struggle she felt inside?

Upon hearing this interruption, candle plant shook his head sharply.

-
I do not know, I know ... Too many thoughts assaulted me and wanted
to leave at once, but idea I was concerned above all others: "If I
speak will withdraw its hand."

The veil of mist would evaporate and, as the lake appeared, the foaming
waves that rose and dissolved then, produced the same impression left
by climbing fast, stunning.

A slice of heaven was like a smile. I said, 'Do you see the blue sky ?...» She got up.

- What next? - Asked the judge to see that the narrator is silent.

What the youth had to say should be more serious, had to be contrary to the prosecution, to
do it and stop your story.

- What next?

Tell me everything must say it all!

- She talked about the other.

I knew it was not love, but the duty that bound him to it.

On rising he said these words: "I do not deserve your love. I applaud the sincerity and I demand
to others I've missed me. You know, and I've said, I am not free ... But the man with whom I had
left was united, you did not see my hand, both could believe that never return. Now ... is
here. If you want me still considers, do not tell me anything else ... "

- Do you see?

Do you see?

- I answered it: "Be as you wish, but this man was going to leave
you again ..."

- Do you see? Hist. i. 181.] A visitation of the clergy was a form of torment from which even the
boldest recoiled; Vane, Gorton, Childe, and Anne Hutchinson quailed under it, and though the
Quakers abundantly proved that they could bear stripes with patience, they could not endure
this. She called them "Baal's priests, the seed of the serpent." Dr. Ellis also speaks of "stinging
objurgations screamed out ... from between the bars of their prisons." [Footnote: Mem. Hist.
of Boston, i. 182.] He cites no cases, but he probably refers to the same woman who called
to Endicott one Sunday on his way from church: "Woe unto thee, thou art an oppressor." [Footnote:
Hutch. Hist. i. 181.] If she said so she spoke the truth, for she was illegally imprisoned,
was deprived of her property, and subjected to great hardship.

In October, 1656, the first of the repressive acts was passed, by which the "cursed" and "blasphemous"
intruders were condemned to be "comitted to the house of correction, and at theire entrance
to be seuerely whipt and by the master thereof to be kept constantly to worke, and none suffered
to converse or speak with them;" [Footnote: Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 278.] and any captain
knowingly bringing them within the jurisdiction to be fined one hundred pounds, with imprisonment
till payment.

"When this law was published at the door of the aforenamed Nicholas Upshall, the good old man,
grieved in spirit, publickly testified against it; for which he was the next morning sent for
to the General Court, where he told them that: 'The execution of that law would be a forerunner
of a judgment upon their country, and therefore in love and tenderness which he bare to the
people and place, desired them to take heed, lest they were found fighters against God.' For
this, he, though one of their church- members, and of a blameless conversation, was fined L20
and L3 more for not coming to church, whence the sense of their wickedness had induced him
to absent himself. They also banished him out of their jurisdiction, allowing him but one month
for his departure, though in the winter season, and he a weakly ancient man: Endicott the governor,
when applied to on his behalf for a mitigation of his fine, churlishly answered, 'I will not
bate him a groat.'" [Footnote: Besse, ii. 181.]

Although, after the autumn of 1656, whippings, fines, and banishments became frequent, no case
of misconduct is alleged until the 13th of the second month, 1658, when Sarah Gibbons and Dorothy
Waugh broke two bottles in Mr. Norton's church, after lecture, to testify to his emptiness;
[Footnote: This charge is unproved.] both had previously been imprisoned and banished, but
the ferocity with which Norton at that moment was forcing on the persecution was the probable
incentive to the trespass. "They were sent to the house of correction, where, after being kept
three days without any food, they were cruelly whipt, and kept three days longer without victuals,
though they had offered to buy some, but were not suffered." [Footnote: Besse, ii. 184.]

In 1661 Katharine Chatham walked through Boston, in sackcloth. This was during the trial of
Christison for his life, when the terror culminated, and hardly needs comment.

George Wilson is charged with having "rushed through the streets of Boston, shouting: 'The
Lord is coming with fire and sword!'" [Footnote: As to Roger Williams, p. 133.] The facts appear
to be these: in 1661, just before Christison's trial, he was arrested, without any apparent
reason, and, as he was led to prison, he cried, that the Lord was coming with fire and sword
to plead with Boston. [Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 351.] At the general jail
delivery [Footnote: Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 19. The
hope, the certainty of seeing her again smiled. When, where? I did not. But see her. And he carried
in his soul. I had not cried because I had a soul full of it. In the shore, seeing the boat
appear gray on gray water, he felt a terrible pang heart. While he could see the beaches of
Ouchy, Lausanne Heights, her eyes had not parted with.

And the trip did not remember more than a few quick scenes. The day before the flight, had spent
all night writing. Knew I could not send more than a word of greeting, but had written overnight.
Aboard a painful dream, a nightmare had overwhelmed grave. Constantly heard the roar of waves
crashing against the strong hull, and felt his own labored breathing, saw away the banks, and knew where
I was, where was.

Had gone to Italy, to admire the beautiful scenery, the bright sun, beautiful sky, which had
done to her as he was. He had been in Milan, in order to see his birthplace, high and severe house
like a tower, located in a remote and quiet street, opposite a small church embellished by many
flowers. He had visited the small town of province in which the school had spent his adolescence,
and had then gone to Brianza, the country of roses, where he spent part of his youth, where they
were buried theirs. Happy ramblings had occupied his mind, thinking of his beloved young years in
the naive hope that she had smiled at the radiant dawn of that life beneficial had wept tears
pleasant. But elsewhere expecting stormy tears.

After a long journey, at the end of the beautiful season, went through Nice as usual always go to Paris.
In Nice had lost his sister, his only companion orphaned youth, and before the tomb of that
loved one was ever going to meditate on the terrible mysteries of life and death. That year
he approached the tomb less secure of himself, full of new ideas he had to commit to memory that
face, eager inspirations gathered there. From this beautiful dead had spoken to him one day
that the accompanied Chillon, he had said how tender was his dear, what big part of his being
was locked in the tomb, and she had asked him to continue speaking of the dead, and several
times he repeated his request, he wanted to know the details girl's life, see their pictures,
and words whose secret only she had had expressed the intimate tenderness of brotherly love.

Hastened
to the grave with the keen desire to confuse a single thought tutelary images of dead and
missing, and his eyes felt a daze: funeral on the wall next to the
skeletons of votive garlands had been meeting there one after another,
a large crown dawn looked like a halo.

It was not flowers, but white cloth or silver threads, a skilled hand had folded the white
satin, white lace, the white tulle, appearing with snowy petals and leaves them sparkling.

His confusion at this show lasted one second, during which, thinking that nobody else in the
world he had loved the dead, stupor, ignorance of affection where it came from this gift, he left
perplexed and anxious. But then he realized the speed of a lightning.

Only a being, that being in love could have gone to hang in there that crown, and tears began
flooding her face, unstoppable. Secret benefactor, comforting compassionate denouncing the inspiration
of love that had led up to that stone, in thinking love that made her weave that garland. The
bones of the dead were shaking because when the sympathetic hand placed the white offering. And he,
trembling, too, cried for joy secret, gratitude overflowing of timid hope.

Thus, he lived in the memory at the heart of him to be worshiped. In the moments when wondered what
would have been memories of the absent person, when questioned whether he thought it not for
a moment, he found religion involved in their grave.

And gaze, obscured by tears in the bright crown, he found that his new prodigy dead sister
expressed the sentiments that invaded, and through space to of time thinking about the absent came
to him, through the soul of life deceased spoke, repeating the advice that their ears had heard
again. "Love and live; created and lives, hopes and lives. "

Uniting with the imagination in the same table to two beautiful images, hand-in saw hands, and
radiant meet him. The missing were removed from the grave to the dead the two ghosts living the
same life superhuman intangible.

But through the admiration I felt, that ecstasy comforter, and his faith as comforting, a feeling
of secret anguish oppressed his heart to think that any words ever could have express whichever
of the two creatures was still alive, the momentum of devotion to his person, the need of bowing
to it than they used. Take, on his knees, his hand, kiss the hand that had the virgin tissue crown,
that was all I could do. But that would be enough? Did not drown it in the moment, all ideas
that were stirring in his mind? And for inspiration pure love that had led to the tomb, would answer
with the confession of a demanding love, a love aggressive? Was it not true that at that time wanted
her for himself, all to himself, since he knew it was him in the underworld fraternity? "So
the leak had been useless? What should have been done? ...

The memory of those moments of great anxiety, he did stand up, turned in the direction the lake,
walked, extending his arm as if in search of a bra, as if he were drunk. I remember the sweetness
of the drunk, yes, this substraía to sadness.

But the bloody image reappeared and pressed her heart again. The wicked destiny and destroyed the
only creatures worth living, and so lost him, one after another, his sisters.

- Sister! ... Sister! ...

Such had been for him.

The only two things dear to his heart were these: the love of sister sister's name. All his other
loves were treacherous and poisonous, had not left not a single good memory: nothing but contempt
and disdain he inspired them all: contempt against the perfidious, contempt against itself. At
one time it had boasted of those affairs, had become arrogant with them as if each had been
a fortune. But, conceived in evil, such love had within it the seeds of destruction, none of them
had ceased to make him feel his rotting, all had sickened the soul; but that was only his comeuppance.

And
when they wanted to engage more in the error when emerge within it felt the need long unsatisfied,
of an intimate relationship, when he could no longer live alone,
again to find it, sister.

Go in search of, say out loud that gave him joy, had been his first impulse, but had refused to
obey. The exaltation of her soul was still so violent, and his solitude was such a comfort to
think continuously in it, he wanted to and could be expected. Jealous of himself, almost afraid to belittle
their own feeling researching its details, had lived in a secret happiness whose origin almost
forgot. Like waking from a pleasant dream, as when dormant and unknown excited energies and
increases the sense of life, everything was new virtues.

Finally, one day wrote. Being the sensitive creature and his own sense secret, verbal expressions,
too lively, did not suit. And the writing contained the momentum of the passions, hopes fell
moderated his joy, expressed only gratitude.

She replied. He spoke of his late sister. What other memories have
been in never played in your mind the words fraternal?

"Certainly, I met his sister and his memory is pleasing me. When you told me about it, when you
told me what the precious and rare qualities of his person and his heart I realized that it
embodied the aspiration of my youth, that was the sister I could never find no comfort me in
times of joy and in those of sadness. When you told me the disaster of his death, I felt as
if I had lost the treasure of goodness and beauty. And to know he was buried in the city where
spent a part of my life, I formed the purpose of going to pray before his tomb. Now, I joy fulfilled
the commitment it had made with myself, and I am happy to know my idea that it has been so
nice to you ... "

And she was dead!

The day had died, the joy was gone. The moon spread over the landscape light burial, a tomb,
the walls whitewashed tombstones appeared, the silence and stillness of death were in the water
on earth, in heaven, everything. Were already two the graves in front of which would go to his knees,
or where your hand would be to deposit crowns. But she had not yet been buried. The bloody
body had been all day on the autopsy table, in the hands of the anatomists, and at that time was in
the church.

Candle plant he looked around him to recognize the spot where he was and move the temple was
in the way of Lucerne. With pace and firmer, walked along route of Jurigoz. In the same house
of prayer where they had met the first time, were to have the second
season meeting.

Far from it, his eyes and his thoughts had turned to the sky in search. After the first letter
had tried to write it again, but the words had been held rebels. And his life had been a continual
anxiety. Everywhere he sought. Front of all the beautiful things seemed to see her. Sometimes I felt
a shift in the heart, seeing in a street person who had a distant resemblance to it. But when passing
these illusions his pain was getting worse. The terror of his nights were dreams, during which
he believed having lost and never see her again. One of those dreams are repeated frequently,
was at presence felt your heart beat, his hands trembled, and could not utter a word, and she,
after having waited in vain for his words, he walked away, fading,
leaving still, petrified.

That distressing inability to everything, even dominated awake, kept him from running for her.
When he went to Nice and did not find there was almost a relief. And to see her again at Ouchy
early summer, trembled. With time and distance believed to have been subtracted influence
of his grace, but his presence renewed the miracle: the anxiety and fear, and all unworthy feelings
suddenly gave way when he found him. Could it hide who lived in his favor? ... And, before she
spoke, she had understood. He was not offended by his confession
of love, nor had doubted the existence.

The false modesty, the hypocrisies of sentiment were not known.

"Do I believe you, and I believe him?" Had asked. Were in the mountains, in the Comte forest, beyond
the leafy slopes were drawn and smooth limpid lake, mountains, landscapes, dazzling light. And truly
dazzling were his words: "Truth is like light, not hidden. The memory of you followed me everywhere;
hope to see you again smiled. I knew this time would come. But there are other truths in life.
And as what I have said is really true, so is, and moral truth, that love you and mine are not durable.
Love has to receive satisfaction. In the full happiness die, but after having lived. Preserve
the life of fear I die, is like killing because you have to die. But the love life depends
on a condition: law enforcement. Think of his dead sister. What would have liked you for it, had
he lived? That would have loved a man who loved her. You would not have too thoroughly researched
the man's past would not have disturbed the his early and less worthy passions. That is natural
law, that they want men are more eager joy, more impatient. One man had scorned her past and
would have trembled with joy and pride to his heart closer to the virgin. The two have united forever,
but it would have been satisfied with a tacit commitment would applied social and divine punishment,
because the moral law wants that love is the foundation family: he does not die, or perhaps
transformed. We have known too later. I do not deny that one can love more than once, mainly from
men. For us women, the experiment is too risky. And in general, the tested, the less you believe.
Too long I've lived outside the law but can still be expect to return to them. You will not
believe this now, and your question is sincere, but later I believe with equal sincerity. I
do not get worse than I am, but if others are not the consciousness of my decline, I have, indestructible.
This feeling would dispute the faith life. At the grave of your sister, when you was away, if
not knew what would happen between us, I thought you join a fraternal feeling. Now we see that
even this is forbidden. You should be ashamed of me. If compassion is not were stronger, you
would not get to dominate the temptation to change the nature of ties that bind us, or defeat,
you too would suffer accordingly. All these things are beyond the law, all are designed naturally
to die and hurt ... "

Still not too certain that was in front of a conscience so sure, had tried refute him show that
bright, but she had reached out to the hills far:

"You see those mountains? Some parts are lit, others remain in shadow. But as the sun continues
his career, comes a time when they are lit and the others watch.

The truth is at all like a light does not go without the company of the shadow. If at this
time do you think some mysterious shadows and let conducive wait, wait you time progresses,
and then the harsh light will make you look your deception ... "

But he had not left finish:

"And I'll tell other truths that you do not know or do not want to know. You, who is judged so;
you, you have a look as clairvoyance, is not known for his integrity, for his sincerity, for his
humility, is a creature selected, worthy of reverence? Do not you know what life contaminates
everything? Is there anything in the world that is free of errors? "And if so, do you think
that the difference between short and higher errors matter much? What matters is power the ideal of
good. He once was diverted and then go offline, do not is more worthy of reward than always
follow the right path? There was a time I thought this was the injustice of the Christian faith
and yourself has brought me back to my beliefs. If you have missed, the intentions that led to the
error makes it more worthy of forgiveness than any other. You feel unworthy of forgiveness is what
is expected, wait ... "

"Not here" was his reply. And wept. She did not!

The time had passed without dissipating the shadows: he did not say that his love had become another
man, a man capable of other things: that pride would have disliked such presumption would have
hurt. Without saying anything more, had been living in their pure enchantment. Certainty to
be loved by her showered him with a joy so clear, that in his being there was no other energy
for no other purpose. Hope bloomed in the shadows, secretly. The words expressing not because
she did not need, should, however, remain secretly stored. His vitality was so fragile that
the slightest shock could have resisted.

Delivered to itself, is held naturally, little by little, it fed
on everything and was food of all ...

Roberto candle plant suddenly
stopped, shuddering.

Was in front of San Luis.

The windows of the church, lit by interior, drew on the walls veiled lamps.

Candle plant collapsed at the gate.

The day before he had heard his voice!

The day had opened his heart! The day before she allowed to kiss his hand!

And then ... Dead, killed! And the judge did not believe in crime! And he was alive?

IV

STORY OF A SOUL
Ferpierre judge uncertainty about the drama of Ouchy was increasing.
Results The autopsy did not shed any useful light: the examination
of the wound round, blackened smoking gun, showing that the shot had
been fired from a distance of about feet, and if this confirmed the
hypothesis of suicide, the murder did not preclude that the murderer
could have pulled up close. Neither internal injuries, the path followed
by the projectile, which was on a sloping line from the bottom up,
allowed to form an opinion accurate. In the person of the dead, no
trace of violence, or hands, or wrists, or neck. 1703, p. 377.]

"Thus they served the wife, and the husband escaped not free; ... he taxing Simon Broadstreet,
... for upbraiding his wife ... and telling Simon of his malitious reproaching of his wife
who was an honest woman ... and of that report that went abroad of the known dishonesty of
Simon's daughter, Seaborn Cotton's wife; Simon in a fierce rage, told the court, 'That if such
fellows should be suffered to speak so in the court, he would sit there no more:' So to please
Simon, Eliakim was sentenc'd to be stripp'd from his waste upward, and to be bound to an oak-tree
that stood by their worship-house, and to be whipped fifteen lashes; ... as they were having
him out ... he called to Seaborn Cotton ... to come and see the work done (so far was he from
being daunted by their cruelty), who hastned out and followed him thither, and so did old Wiggins,
one of the magistrates, who when Eliakim was tyed to the tree and stripp'd, said ... to the
whipper... 'Whip him a good;' which the executioner cruelly performed with cords near as big
as a man's little finger;... Priest Cotton standing near him ... Eliakim ... when he was loosed
from the tree, said to him, amongst the people, 'Seaborn, hath my py'd heifer calv'd yet?'
Which Seaborn, the priest, hearing stole away like a thief." [Footnote: New England Judged,
ed. 1703, pp. 377-379.]

As Margaret Brewster was the last who is known to have been whipped, so is she one of the most
famous, for she has been immortalized by Samuel Sewall, an honest, though a dull man.

"July 8, 1677. Isaiah 1. 12, 14." [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. fifth series, v. 43.]

In 1675 the persecution had been revived, and the stories the woman heard of the cruelties
that were perpetrated on those of her own faith inspired her with the craving to go to New
England to protest against the wrong; so she journeyed thither, and entered the Old South one
Sunday morning clothed in sackcloth, with ashes on her head.

At her trial she asked for leave to speak: "Governour, I desire thee to hear me a little, for
I have something to say in behalf of my friends in this place: ... Oh governour! I cannot but
press thee again and again, to put an end to these cruel laws that you have made to fetch my
friends from their peaceable meetings, and keep them three days in the house of correction,
and then whip them for worshipping the true and living God: Governour! Let me entreat thee
to put an end to these laws, for the desire of my soul is, that you may act for God, and then
would you prosper, but if you act against the Lord and his blessed truth, you will assuredly
come to nothing, the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." ...

"Margaret Brewster, You are to have your clothes stript off to the middle, and to be tied to
a cart's tail at the South Meeting House, and to be drawn through the town, and to receive
twenty stripes upon your naked body."

"The will of the Lord be done: I am contented." ...

Governour. "Take her away." [Footnote: Besse, ii. 263, 264.]

So ends the sacerdotal list of Quaker outrages, for, after Margaret Brewster had expiated her
crime of protesting against the repression of free thought, there came a toleration, and with
toleration a deep tranquillity, so that the very name of Quaker has become synonymous with
quietude. The issue between them and the Congregationalists must be left to be decided upon
the legal question of their right as English subjects to inhabit Massachusetts; and secondarily
upon the opinion which shall be formed of their conduct as citizens, upon the testimony of
those witnesses whom the church herself has called. But regarding the great fundamental struggle
for liberty of individual opinion, no presentation of the evidence could be historically correct
which did not include at least one example of the fate that awaited peaceful families, under
this ecclesiastical government, who roused the ire of the priests.

Lawrence and Cassandra Southwick were an aged couple, members of the Salem church, and Lawrence
was a freeman. Josiah, their eldest son, was a man; but they had beside a younger boy and girl
named Daniel and Provided.

The father and mother were first arrested in 1657 for harboring two Quakers; Lawrence was soon
released, but a Quaker tract was found upon Cassandra. [Footnote: Besse, ii. 183.] Although
no attempt seems to have been made to prove heresy to bring the case within the letter of the
law, the paper was treated as a heretical writing, and she was imprisoned for seven weeks and
fined forty shillings.

Persecution made converts fast, and in Salem particularly a number withdrew from the church
and began to worship by themselves. All were soon arrested, and the three Southwicks were again
sent to Boston, this time to serve as an example. They arrived on the 3d of February, 1657;
without form of trial they were whipped in the extreme cold weather and imprisoned eleven days.
Their cattle were also seized and sold to pay a fine of L4 l3s. for six weeks' absence from
worship on the Lord's day.

The next summer, Leddra, who was afterwards hanged, and William Brend went to Salem, and several
persons were seized for meeting with them, among whom were the Southwicks. A room was prepared
for the criminals in the Boston prison by boarding up the windows and stopping ventilation.
[Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 64.] They were refused food unless they worked
to pay for it; but to work when wrongfully confined was against the Quaker's conscience, so
they did not eat for five days. On the second day of fasting they were flogged, and then, with
wounds undressed, the men and women together were once more locked in the dark, close room,
to lie upon the bare boards, in the stifling July heat; for they were not given beds. On the
fourth day they were told they might go if they would pay the jail fees and the constables;
but they refused, and so were kept in prison. On the morrow the jailer, thinking to bring them
to terms, put Brend in irons, neck and heels, and he lay without food for sixteen hours upon
his back lacerated with flogging.

The next day the miserable man was ordered to work, but he lacked the strength, had he been
willing, for he was weak from starvation and pain, and stiffened by the irons. And now the
climax came. The jailer seized a tarred rope and beat him till it broke; then, foaming with
fury, he dragged the old man down stairs, and, with a new rope, gave him ninety- seven blows,
when his strength failed; and Brend, his flesh black and beaten to jelly, and his bruised skin
hanging in bags full of clotted blood, was thrust into his cell. There, upon the floor of that
dark and fetid den, the victim fainted. But help was at hand; an outcry was raised, the people
could bear no more, the doors were opened, and he was rescued. [Footnote: New England Judged,
ed. 1703, p. 66.]

The indignation was deep, and the government was afraid. Endicott sent his own doctor, but
the surgeon said that Brend's flesh would "rot from off his bones," and he must die. And now
the mob grew fierce and demanded justice on the ruffian who had done this deed, and the magistrates
nailed a paper on the church door promising to bring him to trial.

Then it was that the true spirit of his order blazed forth in Norton, for the jailer was fashioned
in his own image, and he threw over him the mantle of the holy church. He made the magistrates
take the paper down, rebuking them for their faintness of heart, saying to them:--

William "Brend endeavoured to beat our gospel ordinances black and blue, if he then be beaten
black and blue, it is but just upon him, and I will appear in his behalf that did so." [Footnote:
Besse, ii. 186.] And the man was justified, and commanded to whip "the Quakers in prison ...
twice a week, if they refused to work, and the first time to add five stripes to the former
ten, and each time to add three to them.... Which order ye sent to the jaylor, to strengthen
his hands to do yet more cruelly; being somewhat weakened by the fright of his former doings."
[Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 67.]

After this the Southwicks, being still unable to obtain their freedom, sent the following letter
to the magistrates, which is a good example of the writings of these "coarse, blustering, ...
impudent fanatics:"-- [Footnote: As to Roger Williams, p. 138.]

       *       *       *       *       *

This to the Magistrates at Court in Salem.

FRIENDS,

Whereas it was your pleasures to commit us, whose names are under-written, to the house of
correction in Boston, altho' the Lord, the righteous Judge of heaven and earth, is our witness,
that we had done nothing worthy of stripes or of bonds; and we being committed by your court,
to be dealt withal as the law provides for foreign Quakers, as ye please to term us; and having
some of us, suffered your law and pleasures, now that which we do expect, is, that whereas
we have suffered your law, so now to be set free by the same law, as your manner is with strangers,
and not to put us in upon the account of one law, and execute another law upon us, of which,
according to your own manner, we were never convicted as the law expresses. If you had sent
us upon the account of your new law, we should have expected the jaylor's order to have been
on that account, which that it was not, appears by the warrant which we have, and the punishment
which we bare, as four of us were whipp'd, among whom was one that had formerly been whipp'd,
so now also according to your former law. Friends, let it not be a small thing in your eyes,
the exposing as much as in you lies, our families to ruine. It's not unknown to you the season,
and the time of the year, for those that live of husbandry, and what their cattle and families
may be exposed unto; and also such as live on trade; we know if the spirit of Christ did dwell
and rule in you, these things would take impression on your spirits. What our lives and conversations
have been in that place, is well known; and what we now suffer for, is much for false reports,
and ungrounded jealousies of heresie and sedition. These thing lie upon us to lay before you.
As for our parts, we have true peace and rest in the Lord in all our sufferings, and are made
willing in the power and strength of God, freely to offer up our lives in this cause of God,
for which we suffer; Yea and we do find (through grace) the enlargements of God in our imprisoned
state, to whom alone we commit ourselves and families, for the disposing of us according to
his infinite wisdom and pleasure, in whose love is our rest and life.

From the House of Bondage in Boston wherein we are made captives by the wills of men, although
made free by the Son, John 8, 36. In which we quietly rest, this 16th of the 5th month, 1658.

LAWRENCE  | CASSANDRA | SOUTHWICK JOSIAH    | SAMUEL SHATTOCK JOSHUA BUFFUM. [Footnote: New
England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 74.]

       *       *       *       *       *

What the prisoners apprehended was being kept in prison and punished under an ex post facto
law, and this was precisely what was done. When brought into court they demanded to be told
the crime wherewith they were charged. They were answered: "It was 'Entertaining the Quakers
who were their enemies; not coming to their meetings; and meeting by themselves.' They adjoyned,
'That as to those things they had already fastned their law upon them.' ... So ye had nothing
left but the hat, for which (then) ye had no law. They answered--that they intended no offence
to ye in coming thither ... for it was not their manner to have to do with courts. And as for
withdrawing from their meetings, or keeping on their hats, or doing anything in contempt of
them, or their laws, they said, the Lord was their witness ... that they did it not. So ye
rose up, and bid the jaylor take them away." [Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 85.]

An acquittal seemed certain; yet it was intolerable to the clergy that these accursed blasphemers
should elude them when they held them in their grasp; wherefore, the next day, the Rev. Charles
Chauncy, preaching at Thursday lecture, thus taught Christ's love for men: "Suppose ye should
catch six wolves in a trap ... [there were six Salem Quakers] and ye cannot prove that they
killed either sheep or lambs; and now ye have them they will neither bark nor bite: yet they
have the plain marks of wolves. Now I leave it to your consideration whether ye will let them
go alive, yea or nay." [Footnote: Idem, pp. 85, 86.]

Then the divines had a consultation, "and your priests were put to it, how to prove them as
your law had said: and ye had them before you again, and your priests were with you, every
one by his side (so came ye to your court) and John Norton must ask them questions, on purpose
to ensnare them, that by your standing law for hereticks, ye might condemn them (as your priests
before consulted) and when this would not do (for the Lord was with them, and made them wiser
than your teachers) ye made a law to banish them, upon pain of death...." [Footnote: Idem, p. 87.]

After a violent struggle, the ministers, under Norton's lead, succeeded, on the 19th of October,
1658, in forcing the capital act through the legislature, which contained a clause making the
denial of reverence to superiors, or in other words, the wearing the hat, evidence of Quakerism.
[Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, pp. 100, 101; Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 346.]

On that very day the bench ordered the prisoners at Ipswich to be brought to the bar, and the
Southwicks were bidden to depart before the spring elections. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. vol. iv.
pt. 1, p. 349.] They did not go, and in May were once more in the felon's dock. They asked
what wrong they had done. The judges told them they were rebellious for not going as they had
been commanded. The old man and woman piteously pleaded "that they had no otherwhere to go,"
nor had they done anything to deserve banishment or death, though L100 (all they had in the
world) had been taken from them for meeting together. [Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703,
p. 106.]

"Major-General Dennison replied, that 'they stood against the authority of the country, in
not submitting to their laws: that he should not go about to speak much concerning the error
of their judgments: but,' added he, 'you and we are not able well to live together, and at
present the power is in our hand, and therefore the stronger must send off.'" [Footnote: Besse,
ii. 198.]

The father, mother, and son were banished under pain of death. The aged couple were sent to
Shelter Island, but their misery was well-nigh done; they perished within a few days of each
other, tortured to death by flogging and starvation.

Josiah was shipped to England, but afterward returned, was seized, and in the "seventh month,
1661, you had him before you, and at which according to your former law, he should have been
tried for his life."

"But the great occasion you took against him, was his hat, which you commanded him to pull
off: 'He told your governour he could not.' You said, 'He would not.' He told you, 'It was
a cross to his will to keep it on; ... and that he could not do it for conscience sake.' ...
But your governour told him, 'That he was to have been tryed for his life, but that you had
made your late law to save his life, which, you said, was mercy to him.' Then he asked you,
'Whether you were not as good to take his life now, as to whip him after your manner, twelve
or fourteen times at the cart's tail, through your towns, and then put him to death afterward?'"
He was condemned to be flogged through Boston, Roxbury, and Dedham; but he, when he heard the
judgment, "with arms stretched out, and hands spread before you, said, 'Here is my body, if
you want a further testimony of the truth I profess, take it and tear it in pieces ... it is
freely given up, and as for your sentence I matter it not.'" [Footnote: New England Judged,
ed. 1703, pp. 354-356.]

This coarse, blustering, impudent fanatic had, indeed, "with a dogged pertinacity persisted
in outrages which "had driven" the authorities almost to frenzy; "therefore they tied him to
a cart and lashed him for fifteen miles, and while he "sang to the praise of God," his tormentor
swung with all his might a tremendous two-handed whip, whose knotted thongs were made of twisted
cat-gut; [Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 357, note.] thence he was carried fifteen
miles from any town into the wilderness." [Footnote: Besse, ii. 225.]

An end had been made of the grown members of the family, but the two children were still left.
To reach them, the device was conceived of enforcing the penalty for not attending church,
since "it was well known they had no estate, their parents being already brought to poverty
by their rapacious persecutors." [Footnote: Sewel, p. 223.]

Accordingly, they were summoned and asked to account for their absence from worship. Daniel
answered "that if they had not so persecuted his father and mother perhaps he might have come."
[Footnote: New England Judged, ed. 1703, p. 381.] They were fined; and on the day on which
they lost their parents forever, the sale as slaves of this helpless boy and girl was authorized
to satisfy the debt. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 366.]

Edmund Batter, treasurer of Salem, brought the children to the town, and went to a shipmaster
who was about to sail, to engage a passage to Barbadoes. The captain made the excuse that they
would corrupt his ship's company. "Oh, no," said Batter, "you need not fear that, for they
are poor harmless creatures, and will not hurt any body." ... "Will they not so?" broke out
the sailor, "and will ye offer to make slaves of so harmless creatures?" [Footnote: New England
Judged, ed. 1703, p. 112.]

Thus were free-born English subjects and citizens of Massachusetts dealt with by the priesthood
that ruled the Puritan Commonwealth.

None but ecclesiastical partisans can doubt the bearing of such evidence. It was the mortal
struggle between conservatism and liberality, between repression and free thought. What would I do at night? By day, at least wherever they
become the eyes, saw something that he talked about it, and saw her as had seen many times,
washed by the last rays of the sun, still looking the dumb show of the fantastic, and held
his breath and step, as before in presence of the living body, afraid to see it fade, to lose
it. And was gone, had vanished, he had lost! How often had that feeling down the heart of terror!
Was this a being made for life on earth? Many times he had heard, talking about the future, what I
should do that day: "Yes I will be still in the world !...» And candle plant stopped without
seeing anything else, his eyes filled with tears and her pain was so Acute and ineffable,
which almost became a mortal pleasure. The cry had been pleasure of that love, joy, hope, compassion,
fear, pain, everything did mourn.

The impression I felt on seeing her for the first time had been so
strong, that soon there had failed to realize all its beauty.

"It consisted of perhaps the most seductive in grace languid, almost hesitant to his tall,
thin, or the purity of funny lines face, forehead smooth as if it were the work of a sculptor, crowned
with abundant hair blacks who descended into two bands by the temples and gave it a resemblance
to the Virgin pain or tenderness of the look, the deep expression of a soul anxious?

A more attentive contemplation had made him understand after all these
details together formed the event of his person, but then I also saw
that this beauty is not was durable.

Some days, there were hours in which the thinness of the cheeks seemed too big: all lines of
the face is altered, as close to disfigured complexion, unenlightened at the time by the inner
flame, it became livid, the eyes appeared veiled and almost blind. But these sudden shutdown did
not seem more than statements of beauty too big and almost out of humanity, had made him tremble
in fear of him, because he revealed the threat hanging over the life of his beloved. The feeling
of admiration that be lovely everywhere in the wake of its best moments, was becoming then
in caring compassion and heart to garnish the candle plant, for that fleeting and fragile
beauty, was much stronger than it would have taken his admiration for other pride and triumphant
beauty.

He still remembered the words he had heard at night and far away, when one of those moments quiet
too rare, had yielded to the insistence of a cheerful crowd, and
had to play the piano.

An intoxicating music sound out of the instrument, and the mysterious Under the tune was for the
young soul of an explanation of why the superhuman sudden animation beauty that shone in his
face. And at such maximum degree great, he felt humiliated and almost offended, saying that the greater
was the superiority That woman, the more difficult it would be closer to her and the more insignificant
or unworthy should be judged. But when his heart was more oppressed by the consciousness of
the distance that separated them, suddenly saw that without the hands of the pianist interrupted the
implementation of Largo by Bach, who played the purple of her cheeks turned pale, wonderful purity
of the lines of his face was altered, was dissolved.
 The prisoners were put behind the drums, and their voices drowned when they
tried to speak; for a great multitude was about them, and at a word, in their deep excitement,
would have risen. [Footnote: Idem, pp. 122, 123.]

As the solemn procession moved along, they came to where the Reverend John Wilson, the Boston
pastor, stood with others of the clergy. Then Wilson "fell a taunting at Robinson, and, shaking
his hand in a light, scoffing manner, said, 'Shall such Jacks as you come in before authority
with your hats on?' with many other taunting words." Then Robinson replied, "Mind you, mind
you, it is for the not putting off the hat we are put to death." [Footnote: New England Judged,
ed. 1703, p. 124.]

When they reached the gallows, Robinson calmly climbed the ladder and spoke a few words. He
told the people they did not suffer as evil-doers, but as those who manifested the truth. He
besought them to mind the light of Christ within them, of which he testified and was to seal
with his blood.

He had said so much when Wilson broke in upon him: "Hold thy tongue, be silent; thou art going
to dye with a lye in thy mouth." [Footnote: Idem, p. 125.] Then they seized him and bound him,
and so he died; and his body was "cast into a hole of the earth," where it lay uncovered.

Even the voters, the picked retainers of the church, were almost equally divided, and beyond
that narrow circle the tide of sympathy ran strong.

The Rev. John Rayner stood laughing with joy to see Mary Tomkins and Alice Ambrose flogged
through Dover, on that bitter winter day; but the men of Salisbury cut those naked, bleeding
women from the cart, and saved them from their awful death.

The Rev. John Norton sneered at the tortures of Brend, and brazenly defended his tormentor;
but the Boston mob succored the victim as lie lay fainting on the boards of his dark cell.

The Rev. Charles Chauncy, preaching the word of God, told his hearers to kill the Southwicks
like wolves, since he could not have their blood by law; but the honest sailor broke out in
wrath when asked to traffic in the flesh of our New England children.

The Rev. John Wilson jeered at Robinson on his way to meet his death, and reviled him as he
stood beneath the gibbet, over the hole that was his grave; but even the savage Endicott knew
well that all the trainbands of the colony could not have guarded Christison to the gallows
from the dungeon where he lay condemned.

Yet awful as is this Massachusetts tragedy, it is but a little fragment of the sternest struggle
of the modern world. The power of the priesthood lies in submission to a creed. In their onslaughts
on rebellion they have exhausted human torments; nor, in their lust for earthly dominion, have
they felt remorse, but rather joy, when slaying Christ's enemies and their own. The horrors
of the Inquisition, the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, the atrocities of Laud, the abominations
of the Scotch Kirk, the persecution of the Quakers, had one object,--the enslavement of the mind.

Freedom of thought is the greatest triumph over tyranny that brave men have ever won; for this
they fought the wars of the Reformation; for this they have left their bones to whiten upon
unnumbered fields of battle; for this they have gone by thousands to the dungeon, the scaffold,
and the stake. We owe to their heroic devotion the most priceless of our treasures, our perfect
liberty of thought and speech; and all who love our country's freedom may well reverence the
memory of those martyred Quakers by whose death and agony the battle in New England has been won.

CHAPTER VI.

THE SCIRE FACIAS.

Had the Puritan Commonwealth been in reality the thing which its historians have described;
had it been a society guided by men devoted to civil liberty, and as liberal in religion as
was consistent with the temper of their age, the early relations of Massachusetts toward Great
Britain might now be a pleasanter study for her children. Cordiality toward Charles I. would
indeed have been impossible, for the Puritans well knew the fate in store for them should the
court triumph. Gorges was the representative of the despotic policy toward America, and so
early as 1634, probably at his instigation, Laud became the head of a commission, with absolute
control over the plantations, while the next year a writ of quo warranto was brought against
the patent. [Footnote: See introduction to New Canaan, Prince Soc. ed.] With Naseby, however,
these dangers vanished, and thenceforward there would have been nothing to mar an affectionate
confidence in both Parliament and the Protector.

In fact, however, Massachusetts was a petty state, too feeble for independence, yet ruled by
an autocratic priesthood whose power rested upon legislation antagonistic to English law; therefore
the ecclesiastics were jealous of Parliament, and had little love for Cromwell, whom they found
wanting in "a thorough testimony against the blasphemers of our days." [Footnote: Diary of
Hull, Palfrey, ii. 400, 401, and note.]

The result was that the elders clung obstinately to every privilege which served their ends,
and repudiated every obligation which conflicted with their ambition. Clerical political morality
seldom fails to be instructive, and the following example is typical of that peculiar mode
of reasoning. The terms of admission to ordinary corporations were fixed by each organization
for itself, but in case of injustice the courts could give relief by setting aside unreasonable
ordinances, and sometimes Parliament itself would interfere, as it did upon the petition against
the exactions of the Merchant Adventurers. Now there was nothing upon which the theocracy more
strongly insisted than that "our charter doeth expresly give vs an absolute & free choyce of
our oune members;" 283.] because they well knew that any bench of judges before whom such questions
might come would annul the most vital of their statutes as repugnant to the British Constitution.

Unfortunately for these churchmen, their objects, as ecclesiastical politicians, could seldom
be reconciled with their duty as English subjects. At the outset, though made a corporation
within the realm, they felt constrained to organize in America to escape judicial supervision.
They were then obliged to incorporate towns and counties, to form a representative assembly,
and to levy general taxes and duties, none of which things they had power to do. Still, such
irregularities as these, had they been all, most English statesmen would have overlooked as
unavoidable. But when it came to adopting a criminal code based on the Pentateuch, and, in
support of a dissenting form of worship, fining and imprisoning, whipping, mutilating, and
hanging English subjects without the sanction of English law; when, finally, the Episcopal
Church itself was suppressed, and peaceful subjects were excluded from the corporation for
no reason but because they partook of her communion, and were forbidden to seek redress by
appealing to the courts of their king, it seems impossible that any self-respecting government
could have long been passive.

At the Restoration Massachusetts had grown arrogant from long impunity. She thought the time
of reckoning would never come, and even in trivial matters seemed to take a pride in slighting
Great Britain and in vaunting her independence. Laws were enacted in the name of the Commonwealth,
the king's name was not in the writs, nor were the royal arms upon the public buildings; even
the oath of allegiance was rejected, though it was unobjectionable in form. She had grown to
believe that were offence taken she had only to invent pretexts for delay, to have her fault
forgotten in some new revolution. General Denison, at the Quaker trials, put the popular belief
in a nut-shell: "This year ye will go to complain to the Parliament, and the next year they
will send to see how it is; and the third year the government is changed." [Footnote: Sewel,
p. 280.]

But, beside these irritating domestic questions, the corporation was bitterly embroiled with
its neighbors. Samuel Gorton and his friends were inhabitants of Rhode Island, and were, no
doubt, troublesome to deal with; but their particular offence was ecclesiastical. An armed
force was sent over the border and they were seized. They were brought to Boston and tried
on the charge of being "blasphemous enemies of the true religion of our Lord Jesus Christ,
and of all his holy ordinances, and likewise of all civil government among his people, and
particularly within this jurisdiction." [Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 146.] All the magistrates
but three thought that Gorton ought to die, but he was finally sentenced to an imprisonment
of barbarous cruelty. The invasion of Rhode Island was a violation of an independent jurisdiction,
the arrest was illegal, the sentence an arbitrary outrage. [Footnote: See paper of Mr. Charles
Deane, New Eng. Historical and Genealogical Register, vol. iv.]

Massachusetts was also at feud in the north, and none of her quarrels brought more serious
results than this with the proprietors of New Hampshire and Maine. The grant in the charter
was of all lands between the Charles and Merrimack, and also all lands within the space of
three miles to the northward of the said Merrimack, or to the northward of any part thereof,
and all lands lying within the limits aforesaid from the Atlantic to the South Sea.

Clearly the intention was to give a margin of three miles beyond a river which was then supposed
to flow from west to east, and accordingly the territory to the north, being unoccupied, was
granted to Mason and Gorges. The mastiff, watching the newcomer shrink, it grew horribly. Wow, Wow! he shouted,
looking fierce and menacing record he could find in his chest. At the same time extermination
riveting look at the priest and went, though cautious, to him. That, terrified by those wild barking,
swam three or four steps back and spread the arm with the umbrella, which brought to remove the sun,
forward. "Umbrellas! The appeal of cowards, "he must have thought the mastiff. And so bristled at
this outrage, which I had not had a good cleric not to leave the door an old screaming:

- Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Here, Cuckoo! Outside, Cuckoo! Damn dog! Here! ... Here! Come here!

The dog hesitated for a moment, stopped barking and was quite clearly the decision to become back
to sleep as if nothing had happened, but the old woman was satisfied;
required an act of submission.

- Here, Cuckoo!

Here, now!

El Cuco humbly bowed his head toward her and began a slow, excruciating,
as if the path was fraught with danger.

- Here!

Come here!

"I is you, awful!" He told the dog, who did not effect the pomps and vanities. And he advanced with
even greater caution, lock the hoof at each step he took, shook the
tail of a rapid mode.

- Here!

Here! - Was shouting the old.

Finally, at a maximum speed of six steps per minute, arrived at their destination Cuco. The old
caught him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard. The dog a howl of pain.
Then he took the other, and many other tugs. More and more still sad howl. Fulfilled his duties
with the law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under
some curses and blasphemies. This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person
suspected as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory. El Cuco deplored in their hearts
that had not shaved best ears.

- Afternoon, D. Gil - said the old, angry expression suddenly changing
the other smiling melosísima, showing who knew him.

Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and
asked D. Restituto.

- The priest must be toward the barn.

Come in, D. Gil. I'll call him.

- No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ...

- Yes, sir, here behind the house.

He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and found a miserable factory made
of uncut stones from the river only, with a rickety door. It was locked, and nobody was there before.
Going to leave that place and come back to home behind the barn when he heard the sound of
voices. He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto, not a little surprised the suit and
the situation in which he appeared.

The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they spend the peasants through the
land, wore on her feet clogs with socks of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning
linen shirt he loves, without collar or anything like it. Was the costume of a peasant, without
removing it or put anything. But what really made pilgrim and outlandish attire is that the old
head and wore a greasy cap.

Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned
the occupation that the pastor was delivered.

I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf. He helped in the operation servant.
The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now. He turned his head D. Restituto steps, feeling,
and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody
hands clutching a huge knife.

- What miracle is this, man?

The future priest Peñascosa deigns to visit us!

... Look, do not shake hands, because you see how I have it.

Good health, right? ... Not here no novelty.

D. Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview. When Gil had explained
the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond:

- Well, well. I will close immediately. Go home, and wait.

But the young man expressed a desire to go to church.

- To the church? - Said in surprise. Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
No problem. Calls to love the key, and wait there. It will not take.

Would to God that had taken more! And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash. For the
theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse. While confession lasted, and lasted
a long time, Fr Gil could hardly think of anything else. He felt suffocated for that foul smell;
acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes. Don
Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Each question his troubled penitent offered him, he answered triumphantly with a Latin text.
As the veteran off-hook with joy their weapons to the signal of war, the old opponent of the
Lancia picked lectoralía of memory texts already Perronne rusty and
Balmes.

How can one doubt of immortality the soul, when it is something simple, and simple things
can not be broken? Who dare to imagine that the Catholic Church may someday die, when there
bleeding Christ's words: "The gates of hell shall not prevail (non prœvalebunt?)" How be given
more credence to the word of men than of God? What! Divine Wisdom has said: "For this I was
born and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth? "And this testimony is not
is clear and well illustrated in the works visible exceed the natural power, for example, in
healing the sick, the resurrection of the dead and other wonderful miracles performed by Our
Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles?

Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto who
doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry. Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged
from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance,
our priest fell ill. Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea. On
the back porch all food. The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage,
the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion,
I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication. The pastor then
went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables. There was not a flower or ornamental shrub. From
there they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall. D. Restituto began
giving instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting
all about his guest.

One of the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above
the water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels. D. Restituto was furious and announced plans
Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses. Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his
property was respected. From there he ran into the cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with
extreme joy the great state of plants. The water had come just in time, but most of the water
was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had missed.

- You say: where you can make D. Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen? I'll
tell you. I, though I have nine heads of cattle, could not pay even
half of the land that I have.

Here's intelectus! In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to whom it is
not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage or anything. However, these
calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their
homes (commonly pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse.

With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle manure is crossing becomes after some
time pass. When it is well rotted and I'll bring me forming lot until the time comes to distribute
the land. What?

From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow. D. Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp, mocking
laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity.

- This is the meadow below the mill ... the meadow below the mill, you already know ... How?
Do not you know the history of this field? Well, much has run the town ... Belonged to the meek
of the parish, and had been trasconejado when selling them. I had, and nobody in the parish
dared to denounce him. But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God,
last year), and that he was eager Lino the meadow. At the end gave the breath in the administration,
keeping the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction. Two days before done,
came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill,
but if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do
not want, you can top it when you like," I replied. The man, seeing that I went to auction, and knowing
that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy. Lancia Y sent to his
cousin.

But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred goods
topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and put him forty dollars in hand.
What was the man do? It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next
breath ... What a laugh that was assembled in the town, buddy!

Lino ill with rabies, and as was presented occasion that was after two months, coming from a
pilgrimage, he stuck a knife to his cousin ... But, go, good rooms that cost him so puñaladita!
He did not do ten thousand.

As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for
cider, D. Restituto led back to his penitent home and invited him
to chocolate.

But the toilet was still not good. Also in a hurry. Refused all treat and started Peñascosa
way. The priest accompanied him some distance.

Out and understanding their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that his
heart was seized with serious thoughts, D. Restituto wanted to return to the load though he
seemed well established that all doubts of his companion were only that pumps soap, which
breaks with a blow anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology.

- You look out, dear - he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary to
reason, but above it. The opposite of truth, what is? False, is not it? And how has to be taken
for false what is divinely confirmed? The things we know by divine revelation can not be contrary
to natural knowledge, because the natural knowledge also comes from
God, because God is the author of our nature.

Because the ratio exceeds one thing should not be considered as contrary to it. Thus says San Augustine
as truth that which is shown by the holy books, is the Old, New Testament is in any way may find
otherwise. The human mind can, of course, aware of the existence of God, our intelligence course
in the way of this life begins his knowledge of the meaning, and therefore, the things that do not
fall under the senses can not perceive it as by the senses can colleagues their knowledge ...

The
evening was cold and quiet. The countryside stretched under heaven transparent, reflecting in
shades of green, clear, yellow, the rays of setting sun. The sea was a stain blue yonder. The
two priests had crossed the main building, where women sat at the front door, gave them a good
afternoon and went to kiss children hand. In the region were open, slightly undulating, which
characterizes the coast at that country. Fr Gil, silent, he walked with his head down, lifting
it from time to time to straighten his eyes wandering, lost, into the distance, the red soil
and bare rocks that festooned the sea. The sun died firing his last flare, which reddened part of
the skyline. And there came a slight breeze that colored frozen fingers and tip of the nose,
invigorating the muscles and causing tingling in his eyes. The countryside was preparing to
sleep, breathed a sigh of welfare welter of voices and lows, gnashing
of cars, ringing of bells and the murmur of waves, melting everything
and harmonized to the extent the limitless plain.

Fr Gil was trying to meet his old arguments companion was teeming with deep and solemn voice. Were
the same as had been hearing for seven years in the chairs of the seminar Lancia.

By leaving the path and enter a narrow street they saw a herd of cattle
moving slowly.

D. Restituto interrupted his theological and put his hand to his
eyes by way screen.

- Are my cows - said softly.

Before they arrived he shouted to the servant that led:

- What is Brown, limping?

- He should get a spine.

- Then when he arrives at the register pen well and the bags, you know? ... It is the best cow I have - he
said softly, turning to his companion.

And as I was among them, the priest approached caring, paternal, and started the Brown to stroke
his forehead, while lowering his head to look at her legs.

- To, Brown! ... To! To! ... Spine should be, because the legs do not see anything. After that it
serves the wash well with a little wine and rosemary ... Teresa gave
it to you prepare ... Born and raised in the house, do you know? -
Continued turning to the toilet with the face tenderly .-- Me D. was
Jovino, your parishioners, sixty dollars for it ... As if to give
me eighty!

This gem not leave the house. What width of breasts, eh? What back room! (And he softly stroked
with the palm of your hand.) does not give much milk, but everything is butter ... This one also
born at home ... Quiet, Guinda, still! ... It is more awkward than the other ... One heifer
still ... No a fortnight ago has given birth for the first time ...
It collapses in milk ... Repairs, repairs that udder!

You can not go with it! ... Each jet off as the finger ... Look, look ... Quiet, Cherry! ...

And
get off a shot the animal's teats and output two or three squirts
of milk moist soil.

At the same time turned his face, flushed by the position as well as by joy, to the young priest.
He smiled for complacency, but immediately separated sight, it was unable to suppress his revulsion.

He
got back up and herd them too. D. Restituto picked up the thread again his speech.

- I know some say that reason can not prove that God is, and this only can be obtained by faith
and revelation ... Crasísimo error. The falsity of this view manifested by the art show, which
follows the effects of causes, and the same order of science, because
if there is no knowable substance out of the sensitive there will
be no science nor supernatural, as they say in quarto Metaphysicorum.

Must distinguish what is known per se simpliciter, and what is known quoad nos. Simpliciter
God is in itself, is known ...

D. Restituto had a most happy memory. After so many years remembered very well his Dogmatic,
and poured into Castilian recited with the same emphasis as if he had invented. Father also remembered
Gil, because I had more recent, but listened attentively, humility, striving to admire the strength
of those arguments, consider irrefutable.

The old man stopped theologian often stuttered forgetting some demonstration but suddenly took
flight and threw strong on the premises, making them sweat immediately prized conclusions.

--...
Everything that moves is moved by something. Or what moves is moved or not. If not moving, we
have what we want, a mobile stationary, and this we call God. If it does, is something moves
him, and then either have to go on ad infinitum, or we have to reach some still mobile, but in
the order of movement can not be infinite process ... ergo there
that still pose a mobile first.

Let us now prove that all motion is determined by something. If something moves himself, he
must have within itself the principle of their movement ...

Walking down a narrow path open between the cornfields.

The theologian went ahead and P. Gil back. Suddenly it stood firm step and tongue. As we rounded
a bend was found head-Cosme's son, who brought her back hung a basket of eels mediated. View theologian
and thrown on him without pity was all one.

- Rogue!

Great dog! "So you're the one I take away the water mill? I'll to flay alive! Is it your father
who will teach those naughty? Are you a teacher who teaches them? Shameless, cynical!

He had grasped tightly by both of his ears, and every question he gave a strong shock. The boy,
realizing well that those questions were a purely rhetorical and
should not be answered, just kept throwing inarticulate cries of pain.

-
Come here, you rascal!

I want to take before your father! See if you tell me now that I I have bad you will! You have
to stop at a prison! Come here, come!

And as it was feasible for both ears caught the old man consented theologian, although with
deep pain, to drop one to instantly communicate pressure other hand
so that nothing is wasted.

In this way, with his face flushed and eyes blazing anger, he turned to the town without saying goodbye
to his companion, bringing average suspended the boy, throwing plaintive moans.

Fr Gil looked at him stunned until he lost sight of. He stood still a moment motionless, oblivious.
And again undertook his way to getting closer to the edge the sea, down a gentle ramp Peñascosa.
The light disappeared at times. Cold increased. The quiet ocean had lost its beautiful blue,
gray changing to another with a steely glare. Occasionally a gust of cold wind made for the
smooth running surface waters with a slight shudder that rippled and momentarily, as if sea
​​is put goosebumps. And this thrill was communicated to the young priest and down in the
depths of his being. What she felt in her soul was no pain, no agitation, or distress, was just cold,
deadly cold gnawing bones. Never seen so alone and helpless. His
eyes were fixed on the ground stubbornly.

She dared not lift and question the immensity as usual. He was sure his response and feared.

When
he reached the first houses in the suburbs of the worms had already closed the night. Al pass
one of the poorest and dirty got his attention the noise of blows and started screaming inside.
Stood still scared and tried to figure out what it was. Lighted by small windows could be seen
but not violently shaken some shadows. To his ears came, among the confused shouting, some swearing
that he shook. Suddenly violently opens the door and rush out a black mass, triggered by a
hands immediately closed again. Fr Gil acknowledged in that black mass to a cleric. He approached
and saw that it was diligent Fr Norbert, with his cloak and no hat.

- D. Norberto! What is that? What happens?

- Hello, darling.

Nothing, nothing ... is not - responded without stunning.

- If something
happens ... What have they done to you in that house?

- Nothing,
nothing ... Come to meet people.

- Are you going to go without a
hat?

- It's true ... I will ask ... Wait a little.

But at that moment out of a window of the house and flew off his hat, falling in the middle of
the road, that is, close to the clerics.

At the same time a rough voice said, accompanied by several interjections:

-
Take the tile thief.

If you come back here, you leave without the ears.

Fr Norberto was quick to pick it up and started walking.

- But you
explain to me ...-- said the coadjutor with him and making efforts
to keep step.

- I'll explain ... There below.

When they had gone to the worms, bran into the square and the streets of the Quadrant, D. Norberto
shortened a little step.

The toilet used the occasion to press their questions.

- Let's see,
what happened to you?

- Well, look at that house lives a girl, a
girl just fifteen years old, who her mother is a prostitute, delivering
it to the horse trader called Pepe the Manchego.

- And you've gone
there to see if her out of his clutches?

- I had already seen twice,
and seemed ill-disposed, but do not know who gave breath that man,
and now suddenly appeared and made a fuss.

- Jesus!

Are you hurt! - Gil said the father, seeing a few drops of blood running the cheeks of your
partner

.
 Filled with such feelings, their reception of Randolph was
almost brutal. John Leverett was governor, who seems to have taken pains to mark his contempt
in every way in his power. Randolph was an able, but an unscrupulous man, and probably it would
not have been difficult to have secured his good-will. Far however from bribing, or even flattering
him, they so treated him as to make him the bitterest enemy the Puritan Commonwealth ever knew.

Being admitted into the council chamber, he delivered the letter. [Footnote: Randolph's Narrative.
Hutch. Coll., Prince Soc. ed. ii. 240.] The governor opened it, glanced at the signature, and,
pretending never to have heard of Henry Coventry, asked who he might be. He was told he was
his majesty's principal secretary of state. He then read it aloud to the magistrates. Even
the fierce Endicott, when he received the famous "missive" from the Quaker Shattock, "laid
off his hat ... [when] he look'd upon the papers," [Footnote: Sewel, p. 282.] as a mark of
respect to his king; but Leverett and his council remained covered. Then the governor said
"that the matters therein contained were very inconsiderable things and easily answered, and
it did no way concern that government to take any notice thereof;" and so Randolph was dismissed.
Five days after he was again sent for, and asked whether he "intended for London by that ship
that was ready to saile?" If so, he could have a duplicate of the answer to the king, as the
original was to go by other hands. He replied that he had other business in charge, and inquired
whether they had well considered the petitions, and fixed upon their agents so soon. Leverett
did not deign to answer, but told him "he looked upon me as Mr. Mason's agent, and that I might
withdraw." The next day he saw the governor at his own house, who took occasion, when Randolph
referred to the Navigation Acts, to expound the legal views of the theocracy. "He freely declared
to me that the lawes made by your majestie and your Parliament obligeth them in nothing but
what consists with the interest of that colony, that the legislative power is and abides in
them solely ... and that all matters in difference are to be concluded by their finall determination,
without any appeal to your majestie, and that your majestie ought not to retrench their liberties,
but may enlarge them." 243.] One last interview took place when Randolph went for dispatches
for England, after his return from New Hampshire; then he "was entertained by" Leverett "with
a sharp reproof for publishing the substance of my errand into those parts, contained in your
majestie's letters, ... telling me that I designed to make a mutiny.... I told him, if I had
done anything amisse, upon complaint made to your majestie he would certainly have justice
done him."...

"At my departure ... he ... intreated me to give a favourable report of the country and the
magistrates thereof, adding that those that blessed them God would blesse, and those that cursed
them God would curse." And that "they were a people truely fearing the Lord and very obedient
to your majestie." [Footnote: Hutch. Coll., Prince Soc. ed. ii. 248.] And so the royal messenger
was dismissed in wrath, to tell his story to the king.

The legislature met in August, 1676, and a decision had to be made concerning agents. On the
whole, the clergy concluded it would be wiser to obey the crown, "provided they be, with vtmost
care & caution, qualified as to their instructions." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 99.] Accordingly,
after a short adjournment, the General Court chose William Stoughton and Peter Bulkely; and
having strictly limited their power to a settlement of the territorial controversy, they sent
them on their mission. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 114.]

Almost invariably public affairs were seen by the envoys of the Company in a different light
from that in which they were viewed by the clerical party at home, and these particularly had
not been long in London before they became profoundly alarmed. There was, indeed, reason for
grave apprehension. The selfish and cruel policy of the theocracy had borne its natural fruit:
without an ally in the world, Massachusetts was beset by enemies. Quakers, Baptists, and Episcopalians
whom she had persecuted and exiled; the heirs of Mason and Gorges, whom she had wronged; Andros,
whom she had maligned; [Footnote: He had been accused of countenancing aid to Philip when governor
of New York. O'Callaghan Documents, iii. 258.] and Randolph, whom she had insulted, wrought
against her with a government whose sovereign she had offended and whose laws she had defied.
Even her English friends had been much alienated. [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 278, 279.]

The controversy concerning the boundary was referred to the two chief justices, who promptly
decided against the Company; [Footnote: See Opinion; Chalmers's Annals, p. 504.] and the easy
acquiescence of the General Court must raise a doubt as to their faith in the soundness of
their claims. And now again the fatality which seemed to pursue the theocracy in all its dealings
with England led it to give fresh provocation to the king by secretly buying the title of Gorges
for twelve hundred and fifty pounds. [Footnote: May, 1677. Chalmers's Annals, pp. 396, 397.
See notes, Palfrey, iii. 312.]

Charles had intended to settle Maine on the Duke of Monmouth. It was a worthless possession,
whose revenue never paid for its defence; yet so stubborn was the colony that it made haste
to anticipate the crown and thus become "Lord Proprietary" of a burdensome province at the
cost of a slight which was never forgiven. Almost immediately the Privy Council had begun to
open other matters, such as coining and illicit trade; and the attorney-general drew up a list
of statutes which, in his opinion, were contrary to the laws of England. The agents protested
that they were limited by their instructions, but were sharply told that his majesty did not
think of treating with his own subjects as with foreigners, and it would be well to intimate
the same to their principals. [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 309.] In December, 1677, Stoughton wrote
in great alarm that something must be done concerning the Navigation Acts or a breach would
be inevitable. [Footnote: Hutch. Hist. i. 288.] And the General Court saw reason in this emergency
to increase the tension by reviving the obnoxious oath of fidelity to the country, [Footnote:
Mass. Rec. v. 154.]--the substitute for the oath of allegiance,--and thus gave Randolph a new
and potent weapon. In the spring [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 316, 317; Chalmers's Annals, p. 439.]
the law officers gave an opinion that the misdemeanors alleged against Massachusetts were sufficient
to avoid her patent; and the Privy Council, in view of the encroachments and injuries which
she had continually practised on her neighbors, and her contempt of his majesty's commands,
advised that a quo warranto should be brought against the charter. Randolph was appointed collector
at Boston. [Footnote: 1678, May 31.]

Even Leverett now saw that some concessions must be made, and the General Court ordered the
oath of allegiance to be taken; nothing but perversity seems to have caused the long delay.
[Footnote: Oct. 2, 1678. Mass. Rec. v. 193. See Palfrey, iii. 320, note 2.] The royal arms
were also carved in the court-house; and this was all, for the clergy were determined upon
those matters touching their authority. The agents were told, "that which is farr more considerable
then all these is the interest of the Lord Jesus & of his churches ... which ought to be farr
dearer to us than our liues; and ... wee would not that by any concessions of ours, or of yours...
the least stone should be put out of the wall." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 202.]

Both agents and magistrates were, nevertheless, thoroughly frightened, and being determined
not to yield, in fact, they resorted to a policy of misrepresentation, with the hope of deceiving
the English government. [Footnote: See Answers of Agents, Chalmers's Annals, p. 450.] Stoughton
and Bulkely had already assured the Lords of Committee that the "rest of the inhabitants were
very inconsiderable as to number, compared with those that were acknowledged church-members."
[Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 318.] They were in fact probably as five to one. The General Court
had been censured for using the word Commonwealth in official documents, as intimating independence.
They hastened to assure the crown that it had not of late been used, and should not be thereafter;
[Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 198. And see, in general, the official correspondence, pp. 197-203.]
yet in November, 1675, commissions were thus issued. [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 322.] But the
breaking out of the Popish plot began to absorb the whole attention of the government at London;
and the agents, after receiving a last rebuke for the presumption of the colony in buying Maine,
were at length allowed to depart. [Footnote: Nov. 1679.]

Nearly half a century had elapsed since the emigration, and with the growth of wealth and population
changes had come. In March, John Leverett, who had long been the head of the high-church party,
died, and the election of Simon Bradstreet as his successor was a triumph for the opposition.
Great as the clerical influence still was, it had lost much of its old despotic power, and
the congregations were no longer united in support of the policy of their pastors. This policy
was singularly desperate. Casting aside all but ecclesiastical considerations, the clergy consistently
rejected any compromise with the crown which threatened to touch the church. Almost from the
first they had recognized that substantial independence was necessary in order to maintain
the theocracy. Had the colony been strong, they would doubtless have renounced their allegiance;
but its weakness was such that, without the protection of England, it would have been seized
by France. Hence they resorted to expedients which could only end in disaster, for it was impossible
for Massachusetts, while part of the British Empire, to refuse obedience at her pleasure to
laws which other colonies cheerfully obeyed.

Without an ally, no resistance could be made to England, when at length her sovereignty should
be asserted; and an armed occupation and military government were inevitable upon a breach.

Though such considerations are little apt to induce a priesthood to surrender their temporal
power, they usually control commercial communities. Accordingly, Boston and the larger towns
favored concession, while the country was the ministers' stronghold. The result of this divergence
of opinion was that the moderate party, to which Bradstreet and Dudley belonged, predominated
in the Board of Assistants, while the deputies remained immovable. The branches of the legislature
thus became opposed; no course of action could be agreed on, and the theocracy drifted to its
destruction.

The duplicity characteristic of theological politics grew daily more marked. They were admonished
and forbidden to meet for worship except with the established congregations; and their church
was closed. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 271.] That very day an address was voted to the king,
one passage of which is as follows: "Concerning liberty of conscience, ... that after all,
a multitude of notorious errors ... be openly broached, ... amongst us, as by the Quakers,
&c., wee presume his majesty doeth not intend; and as for other Prottestant dissenters, that
carry it peaceably & soberly, wee trust there shallbe no cause of just complaint against us
on their behalfe." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 287.]

Meanwhile Randolph had renewed his attack. He declared that in spite of promises and excuses
the revenue laws were not enforced; that his men were beaten, and that he hourly expected to
be thrown into prison; whereas in other colonies, he asserted, he was treated with great respect.
[Footnote: June, 1680. Palfrey, iii. 340.] There can be no doubt ingenuity was used to devise
means of annoyance, and certainly the life he was made to lead was hard. In March [Footnote:
March 15, 1680-1.] he sailed for home, and while in London he made a series of reports to the
government which seem to have produced the conviction that the moment for action had come.
In December he returned, commissioned as deputy-surveyor and auditor-general for all New England,
except New Hampshire. When Stoughton and Bulkely were dismissed, the colony had been commanded
to send new agents within six months. In September, 1680, another royal letter had been written,
in which the king dwelt upon the misconduct of his subjects, "when ... we signified unto you
our gracious inclination to have all past deeds forgotten... wee then little thought that those
markes of our grace and favour should have found no better acceptance amoung you.... We doe
therefore by these our letters, strictly command and require you, as you tender your allegiance
unto us, and will deserve the effects of our grace and favour (which wee are enclyned to afford
you) seriously to reflect upon our commands; ... and particularly wee doe hereby command you
to send over, within three months after the receipt hereof, such... persons as you shall think
fitt to choose, and that you give them sufficient instructions to attend the regulation and
settlement of that our government." [Footnote: Sept. 30. Hutch. Coll. , Prince Soc. ed. ii. 261.]

The General Court had not thought fit to regard these communications, and now Randolph came
charged with a long and stern dispatch, in which agents were demanded forthwith, "in default
whereof, we are fully resolved, in Trinity Term next ensuing, to direct our attorney-general
to bring a quo warranto in our court of kings-bench, whereby our charter granted unto you,
with all the powers thereof, may be legally evicted and made void; and so we bid you farewel."
[Footnote: Chalmers's Annals, p. 449.]

Hitherto the clerical party had procrastinated, buoyed up by the hope that in the fierce struggle
with the commons Charles might be overthrown; but this dream ended with the dissolution of
the Oxford Parliament, and further inaction became impossible. Joseph Dudley and John Richards
were chosen agents, and provided with instructions bearing the peculiar tinge of ecclesiastical
statesmanship.

They were directed to represent that appeals would be intolerable; and, for their private guidance,
the legislature used these words: "We therefore doe not vnderstand by the regulation of the
gouernment, that any alteration of the patent is intended; yow shall therefore neither doe
nor consent to any thing that may violate or infringe the liberties & priuiledges granted to
us by his majesties royall charter, or the gouernment established thereby; but if any thing
be propounded that may tend therevnto, yow shall say, yow haue received no instruction in that
matter." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 349.] With reference to the complaints made against the colony,
they were to inform the king "that wee haue no law prohibbiting any such as are of the perswasion
of the church of England, nor haue any euer desired to worship God accordingly that haue been
denyed." [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 347. March 23.]

Such a statement cannot be reconciled with the answer made the commissioners; and the laws
compelled Episcopalians to attend the Congregational worship, and denied them the right to
build churches of their own.

"As for the Annabaptists, they are now subject to no other poenal statutes then those of the
Congregational way." This sophistry is typical. The law under which the Baptist church was
closed applied in terms to all inhabitants, it is true; but it was contrived to suppress schism,
it was used to coerce heretics, and it was unrepealed. Moreover, it would seem as though the
statute inflicting banishment must then have still been in force.

The assurances given in regard to the reform of the suffrage were precisely parallel:--

"For admission of ffreemen, wee humbly conceive it is our liberty, by charter, to chuse whom
wee will admitt into our oune company, which yet hath not binn restrayned to Congregational
men, but others haue been admitted, who were also provided for according to his majestjes direction."
[Footnote: 1681-2, March 23.]

Such insincerity gave weight to Randolph's words when he wrote: "My lord, I have but one thing
to reminde your lordship, that nothing their agents can say or doe in England can be any ground
for his majestie to depend upon." [Footnote: Randolph to Clarendon. Hutch. Coll., Prince Soc.
ed. ii. 277]

With these documents and one thousand pounds for bribery, soon after increased to three, [Footnote:
Chalmers's Annals, p. 461.] Dudley and Richards sailed. Their powers were at once rejected
at London as insufficient, and the decisive moment came. [Footnote: Idem, p. 413.] The churchmen
of Massachusetts had to determine whether to accept the secularization of their government
or abandon every guaranty of popular liberty. The clergy did not hesitate before the momentous
alternative: they exerted themselves to the utmost, and turned the scale for the last time.
[Footnote: Hutch. Hist. i. 303, note.] In fresh instructions the agents were urged to do what
was possible to avert, or at least delay, the stroke; but they were forbidden to consent to
appeals, or to alterations in the qualifications required for the admission of freemen. [Footnote:
1683, March 30. Mass. Rec. v. 390.] They had previously been directed to pacify the king by
a present of two thousand pounds; and this ill-judged attempt at bribery had covered them with
ridicule. [Footnote: Hutch. Hist. i. 303, note.]

Further negotiation would have been futile. Proceedings were begun at once, and Randolph was
sent to Boston to serve the writ of quo warranto; [Footnote: 1683, July 20.] he was also charged
with a royal declaration promising that, even then, were submission made, the charter should
be restored with only such changes as the public welfare demanded. [Footnote: Mass. Rec. v.
422, 423.] Dudley, who was a man of much political sagacity, had returned and strongly urged
moderation. The magistrates were not without the instincts of statesmanship: they saw that
a breach with England must destroy all safeguards of the common freedom, and they voted an
address to the crown accepting the proffered terms. [Footnote: 1683, 15 Nov. Hutch. Hist. i.
304.] But the clergy strove against them: the privileges of their order were at stake; they
felt that the loss of their importance would be "destructive to the interest of religion and
of Christ's kingdom in the colony," [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 381.] and they roused their congregations
to resist. The deputies did not represent the people, but the church. They were men who had
been trained from infancy by the priests, who had been admitted to the communion and the franchise
on account of their religious fervor, and who had been brought into public life because the
ecclesiastics found them pliable in their hands. The influence which had moulded their minds
and guided their actions controlled them still, and they rejected the address. [Footnote: Nov.
30. Palfrey, iii. 385.] Increase Mather took the lead. He stood up at a great meeting in the
Old South, and exhorted the people, "telling them how their forefathers did purchase it [the
charter], and would they deliver it up, even as Ahab required Naboth's vineyard, Oh! their
children would be bound to curse them." [Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 388, note 1.]

All that could be resolved on was to retain Robert Humphrys of the Middle Temple to interpose
such delays as the law permitted; but no attempt was made at defence upon the merits of their
cause, probably because all knew well that no such defence was possible. The violent death of Florence d'Arda,
either by suicide or by murder, was inexplicable without dissent, without discord, without a drama:
the hypothesis of agreement between the two couples was inadmissible in the presence of bloodied
corpse.

Few taxes were so intimate struggle sustained by the Countess, as the same Ferpierre. Whenever you
imagine the state of consciousness of the unfortunate in the wake of the disaster, recognized the
possibility of suicide and even said I should have committed suicide. But also candle plant
the accusation, suspicion, public opinion, the attitude of the defendants, a kind of secret
instinct and his own conscience prevented him confirmed as judge definitely in that opinion.
His long experience investigating judge told him that likelihood of a hypothesis to a dark
fact, does not exclude another possibility, love their profession was excited with the idea that
the case at hand was very intricate and difficult. And I really did
not remember having met in the presence of a higher difficulty.

Outside the intimate drama that had developed in the soul of the Countess what else struggle
feelings of the defendants, could explain the catastrophe? Was forced to admit again that, by loving
the Natzichet, or rather, to enter into relations with her extend the list of his triumphs
gallant Prince had forgotten all about the Countess, or see it when close to falling into
the arms of another, had been waking her love for her. The secure possession of property which
causes an early look tired with little appreciation, and what does not happen often that to
return unto us expensive, just the threat to lose? It is often enough that someone appreciates
what we are dealing with contempt, so that, suddenly changing his mind, recognize its value. Was necessary,
to support the theory of the murder of Florence d'Arda, that the Prince had been made that change,
then only could be explained that he had died, knowing that belonged
of heart candle plant, or the nihilist would have died knowing that
Zakunine love again.

But if the resurrection of the Prince's love was essential to explain the crime, murderer, given
that resurrection could not be him. His jealousy would not have been indeed very founded, given
that the Countess had been faithful to the last moment, and loyalty to his word he had ducked
candle plant. Could it be assumed that the only certainty have lost the heart of his beloved
and the conviction that he could not recover, have prompted the crime? Maybe it was not quite
incredible, given the violence of nature, but to admit, it still required that he and the
deceased had mediated explanations, provocations, threats. If he had begged him to follow Amanda,
who did not leave, and if she had said no wanted to be yours explained the murder, but was it
credible that the Countess, who had remained so faithful and submissive despite his ill treatment,
had revolted to him penitent and guilty? Taking into account the character of the deceased,
had to believe, however, that the resurrection Love of the Prince and his insistent pleas had
increased his embarrassment, his extreme anguish, reinforced his scruples, increased pain and
difficulties including stirring the unhappy.

Ferpierre and came first, the confirmation of the arguments that had been done and, but, on
the other, he was induced to consider and to a much worse condition the Natzichet. Seeing
Zakunine was not entirely his own, that love, or compassion, or out of respect, or interest,
still belonged to the Countess, the Russian could have hated it last. It was not impossible that
if there was an explanation between the two women, caused no doubt by the nihilist, whose presence
in the town Cyclamens not explained very well: although unable to wish evil to anyone, the
Italian had probably hurt the young rebelling to their threats, and may not tolerate that, after
she departed from the Prince take it out of your own home: the result of that explanation could
have been bloody. But how the Prince, to be found, if not present at the scene, at least near,
had not come to prevent crime?

And how the nihilist, who never came into the room Countess, was unable to find the weapon that had saved
it?

These difficulties are not much disturbed by the magistrate. Zakunine probably had not been brought
because I could not believe that the conversation ended in tragedy, and as the weapon, perhaps
that day was not saved, or the young man knew where he could find.

Another difficulty was entirely moral and more serious, with which it had stopped Ferpierre many
times: if the nihilistic had knowledge of the love of Florence d'Arda
Candle plant how could wish her ill? Rivalry explained in the event
that the deceased had tried to stop Prince at his side that had not
existed.

But it was to believe that Natzichet Countess did not know that he loved candle plant: the
passion that the death was drowning, that the young had held, it could have been ignored by
not disclosing any external fact, an act.

Therefore, although these assumptions were reinforced by evidence and still missing clarify
many things, the judge was stating in the opinion that denied the suicide, most likely suspect
should weigh against women. The Prince and his repentance Turning next to the old friend, as
determined by the need for money or a sense more dignified, prevented Zakunine wished to believe
that the death of a person who was face again, while explaining the hatred if not jealous of
the student. If the revolutionary seemed more capable of killing, meanwhile was likely that her position
match, the fever of propaganda and its serious responsibilities, would have prevented him committing
a crime that put him in the hands of justice. In contrast, the Natzichet, less seriously compromised,
the awareness of responsibilities was no or very small, the political duty in it, women had to oppose
the passion a minor obstacle, and if still hung over her conviction for crimes, police reports
considered capable of consuming. This capacity for crime, violence of his feelings, was not written
course in his countenance, in his eyes? Had not his whole person, in every word, some hard,
fierce, continued provocation, a silent threat, a relentless rebellion? Its very attitude
to the body and during his imprisonment predisposed against him Ferpierre. First had denied that
was the darling of Zakunine, then he had confessed, and these and other contradictions, and
the initiative taken in the last interrogation to answer instead
of the Prince, revealed, despite his false indifference, their secret
anxiety saved.

Ferpierre intended to do about this new research.

If the girl was How guilty Prince, seeing that the prosecution was upon him, revealing not
saving the truth?

It was evident that he hoped to save her, using all the arguments for suicide, wanted to save her love,
compassion, or rather the feeling of fellowship that the community should create and nurture
ideas. If the Prince had been the murderer, Would not have encouraged the nihilistic the same
feeling? Was to believe. But what would have happened if innocent, either it was, had lost
all hope of salvation the culprit?

If both defendants had been irreversibly lost, was not true that would have ended up feeling guilty
weakened his heroism to save the guilty, or that the culprit could not resign himself to the idea
to drag the innocent?

Guided by this kind of reasoning, thought Ferpierre to tempt a test: on call the two defendants,
and each one would say that all the suspicions hanging over the other.

The attitude of both could help the discovery of truth.

And once again resumed the interrogation of the Natzichet.

This continued to occupy your time in reading and writing, his contemptuous indifference had
not given to new and long days in prison.

- I come to meet - he told the magistrate in the tone of greeting - a very pleasant duty. Justice
is convinced of the innocence of you. Are you at liberty.

If you have believed that we enjoy to accuse, to suspect at all costs, I would like to leave
Here you are persuaded of his deception. Our duty is to uncover the truth, and although this purpose
is the worthiest of all, we also suffer when by appearances fallacious
keep an innocent man in prison and enjoy when we can help you get
rid of.

I repeat to you, then, that justice does not take into account later to ask. Clearly that the
time has passed you in here may not be of pleasure, but I guess there will be ceased to be
fruitful for their social studies.

Without uttering a word, without a move to show its pleasure, unmoved,
unmoving the nihilistic fixed his eyes on the judge.

It seemed that he had not heard the brief sermon and Ferpierre For little thought to tell :--«¿
When will you finish ?...»

- No doubt - he continued the magistrate,
- would have been better for you to consider freely our prison system,
but you agree that if we had to stop these days, the blame was partly
his.

The sentiment that has guided you is certainly much respected and
honored, but if not accuse his lover has left you in the doubt, what
are we responsible for his detention has been extended?

The Natzichet continued staring at him. Upon hearing this last question was closed for a moment
eyes, and said:

- What do you mean?

- Do not you understand?

- No.

- And yet, it would be difficult ... Or are you still waiting to go free with you? Your intention
was and would be very laudable, if not offend the truth that we we are so compelled to find out how
you recognize ...

- What do you say ?...-- questioned the girl with a wave of indifference.

-
I say nothing - Ferpierre replied, shrugging his shoulders and looking
down at papers who were at the table .-- The loving you has confessed
himself the murderer!

By avoiding the gaze of the young, the judge was due to two different impulses. It was painful
for righteousness use lies to uncover the truth. Had been used rarely that means: only in desperate
cases like the one at hand, he had, and always winning an innate revulsion. And while a secret
feeling shame, made him look away, instinct and habit of research
she was advised insist on their attitude to the accused, seeing no
longer observed, neglect contain real impression that this revelation
caused him.

Apparently looking for something in the papers, he continued:

- Here is your declaration, duly signed. Do you expect you'll still save?

Saying it looked at.

The Russian had another face. As if he had torn the mask of contempt and arrogance hardness, her
pale cheeks, her parted lips and wild eyes expressing the pain, fear, remorse, a feeling that
Ferpierre could not yet be ascertained, but which undoubtedly was very painful.

- Do you feel you ... You must love him a lot!

The spectacle of the sudden disturbance distracted at the beginning of pregnancy Judge was to
enter a path that was not right. But seeing that it was required after to explore it to the end,
feeling the anguish of the young, was growing his disgust. Did not was inflicting on this woman,
love of truth, mental torture? Had big difference between the horrible instruments of ancient inquisition
and the lie with which he explored the soul of the accused?

- I understand you pain, but the supposed prepared to endure. You have done everything possible
to divert our suspicions, and can not feel tormented by remorse for having Prince injured. But the
truth is hidden in the long run comes to light. And this is the time to warn you that it could
have been a little more clever. How could you never expect me to believe in this fable of
the last explanation of the three? What was not credible that the Prince, who had returned to the
side of the Countess, as you wanted me understand, to separate it definitely took so long to
make that statement? If you took so long was because he had changed his purpose, because when I
was about to leave, also noted that she thought of him, and then his pride hurt him away from
his first intention. Then he said that women should not be different, wanted to be yours again
as before, and was contrite, pleading. You hid that change, so it was natural; but how do you
suspected not to see his misrepresentations? You could not help noticing that took too long to accomplish
what he promised, and if he said that compassion prevented him from giving a death blow to that woman,
you should warn her lover's heart Prince around the side of the Countess,
was dangerous, that passion, when it looks dead and already buried,
suddenly emerges, more graceful than before.

When you knew that her lover seeing her, and stayed with her, not once but many times, do you not
suspect that memories of the past, the seduction of this woman, almost new to him after a long
neglect, had to overcome one more time ... yes, you had this intuition, their painful silence
me says now, but it's quiet you by the love she has, because he understands that if justice I
knew that Zakunine still loved the Countess, who was jealous, the truth would have looked early
and high gloss. But this precaution could not have the result you wanted. When I asked why her lover
of his presence next to the deceased, yourself suggested that a derogation or compassion: he had
not managed to find a pretext for concealing or the real reason was the love and jealousy!
What did you think I would not know his address and the embarrassment of his friend, and finally
come to discover its cause?

In the heat of research, realizing that he was very close to the truth, Ferpierre forgot his
remorse. The silence of the young, the growing despair in their eyes, the trembling of his
hands, stirring anxiety among its members, showing more and more to judge who had played the
note states, that he felt truly Zakunine prey again the love of the Countess, who had suffered the
nihilistic jealousy, there was a need find the reason of the mystery. The judge had guessed before
that, but other arguments and the lack of evidence he had been distracted
and lost later.

At that time accumulated all assumptions, he imagined that he lacked, so that their conclusive
statements would serve as a kind of moral reactive in the heart of the young, gap opening and showing
him inside.

- The love you have you must be very deep when you accepted this role,
hiding jealousy tortured her, feigning ignorance and indifference!

And how badly matched have you been! Not for a moment could you forge illusions: it is obvious
that you has seen the ensuing, who has foreseen what would happen,
because Zakunine, determined to play a woman at his rival with the
vehemence that gets in his passions, he had no hesitation to crime.

You came in search of fear that the disaster had already occurred,
and came too late to prevent it.

Is not it true?

The young man shuddered at the question: strongly pressed his temples with both hands as if the
storm in his brain triggered by the words of the judge, threatened to do so Pop: After breathed
heavily, so much so that the air whistled through her teeth clenched, and finally said, expressing
disgust with the painful and helpless disdain for those who feel mistreated and press:

- Have you finished? Do you still have fun in tormenting me? You enjoy a great pleasure, no
doubt. Enough, at last!

- How do you speak?

- How do I. I do not want, do you understand? their wicked devices
to drag into the abyss who is not guilty!

Do you love the truth above all things? Is it a sacred duty to you to discover the truth?
Are you the representative of society for justice? Well, you say that society - and the tone of his
voice rose almost to the cry, - tell you I have killed that woman! You give rein to his justice,
but I know you know, the contempt you keep in mind that I claimed responsibility for that act,
not to deserve punishment, but to get praise.

The impression that those words were in the mind of the judge, was enormous. Amazement and
pleasure for the early success of his artifice, the satisfaction of seeing his suspicions
confirmed; a new sense of curiosity caused by the defendant bragging pride, a feeling of compassion
that secretly and almost against his will so inclined to indulgence in the moment that the
confession should have been him boasting more severe, seized both
his spirit.

- Ah!

Confess you !...-- was all she could say in the first moment of confusion,
not to lie in the timing of the question, but then, controlling himself:
- "You too confesses? - repeated, keeping the device so well that
he had produced .-- A Who should I believe now?

"They compete both in generosity to that point? "Each is charged to save the other? Noble competition!

The
girl replied sharply:

- Are you not able to distinguish truth from
falsehood?

- Not always!

When others are working to hide it!

... Well, if you want me to believe As I said, I believe. But the harder it is to understand
the tone of pride with which you blamed herself.

I know you know the laws, "but then, in society ideal for whose advent
you work, be killed with impunity and even be a ring Glory have destroyed
a life, so for pleasure?

- Not for pleasure.

- What!

Is probably a must for all lovers jealous aside the order of half
jealousy?

- You do not know.

- I do not know, indeed!

Is it true, yes or no, that the Prince could not bring himself to resign the Countess because he
loved her again?

- True.

- And you were not jealous?

The young voice replied with ice, making the words sound stood out, one after other:

- My personal feelings do not matter: no feeling, no duty, no matter
when has come to understand the duty.

The lives of others, our own lives, honor, affects, all the vain things must yield to it. This
is my standard, and should be also yours.

But he forgot!

...

Ferpierre beginning to understand.

- Are you saying that it was not
for the love of you who had stopped contributing to success of the
cause, but by the Countess?

- Yes.

- Why was he then in Zurich,
together with you and not her?

- For I knew that was hideous, but
I wanted to talk about it with someone.

- And speaking of it with
you?

- Before you said I had not said a word about it!

But if I talked to the other "you did not love you?

- I have never loved.

Yet the impassive coldness of the statue's face, had in the last words
the girl who made a painful echo Ferpierre think: 'Do not lie!

"

- And you loved him, would you still love?

- What does it matter to you that? - Said the nihilistic, returning to speak with a hardness Ferpierre
seemed to mock. Does it matter to you I do not care myself? If I I would like to find an attenuation
for the act that I committed, if he wanted to apologize to you, before society, say that she loved
him, that she killed her out of jealousy.

Your society excuse, glorify this weakness, this selfishness.

The lover himself to avoid pain, to secure possession of the pleasure kills his rival, is forgiven,
it is to judge beautiful large, admirable that love blind loyalty. Instead, it condemns the
love that guides us, our conscious sacrifice, the work of salvation that we do.

- Strange work, for now, you run bloodshed!

- Do you believe that one, ten, hundred lives are at stake important destination of all? You
who are afraid of blood, shed in torrents in the wars, so great is the horror of blood, that
the paramount concern of the rulers is to arm the peoples. Here in this land of freedom, is not
the exercise of force, with a purpose bloody, the most honorable of all? And do not you answer
me that the very idea that such acts governing ambition is to defend yourself against domain,
because they all say that! Who confesses bad practice? The well is on the lips of all of the attackers
and the attacked. Foolish ambitions, low interest rates and narrow, lead peoples to war. And
does in war there is a rule, always obeyed, the sacrifice a soldier
on a patrol, advanced to the good of the other soldiers?

We will make another war, more just, the only just and holy war: the war for the redemption of
men from all iniquities and all the vile, against hunger, against
ignorance, against the abuse of power against the same war that you
practice.

When we encounter an obstacle, we destroy it: first, ten thousand lives, what matter?

The Russian had spoken with ill-contained violence, the rigidity of his attitude had disappeared
and his outstretched arm made the gesture of one who hurts and knocks.

When stopped, the judge who had heard astonished and almost intimidated,
said his time with cold and severe stress:

- We are not arguing about
the morality of the principles you profess.

Would not better tell me how was the Countess an obstacle for you? What could you fear it
seriously?

And seeing that it took to answer:

- Would you let me know that maybe
you thought to denounce, to reveal their conspiracy plans?

- I do
not mean to imply anything.

Alexis Petrovich was lost for the woman.

- How?

- For his love, his desire to return to possess had forgotten the duty. She understood no longer
loved him, she loved another, but he said he still had a way to have it them, are subtracted to
the other, she said she had not given out of love as apart from us, to redeem himself, and
he was redeemed, made her see that she was his redemption, which, abandoned by her, would fall
into error. The only way to keep it was this: say it and prove their repentance. Then, although
no longer loved him, only for not allowing our company again, Countess
resisted other.

I lay down on face many times his madness, the indignity committed by sacrificing a woman's
ideal throughout his life: he could not hear me, I was dazed. Going to get me to mourn in my presence
because had lost, because he had lost by his own fault, and he wanted me, I help him ...

The voice of the young expressed not only disdain, but a secret anxiety:
not only she felt pain for the loss of a colleague, but also deeper
and hidden, the torment of having been taken by the man she loved
confidante, had not even suspected his love.

- Do you?

- I saw that
it was useless.

 [Footnote:
More Wonders, p. 108.]

The sequence of cause and effect is sufficiently obvious. Although at a moment when the panic
had got beyond control, even the most ultra of the clergy had been forced by their own danger
to counsel moderation, the conservatives were by no means ready to abandon their potent allies
from the lower world; the power they gave was too alluring. "'Tis a strange passage recorded
by Mr. Clark, in the life of his father, That the people of his parish refusing to be reclaimed
from their Sabbath breaking, by all the zealous testimonies which that good man bore against
it; at last [one night] ... there was heard a great noise, with rattling of chains, up and
down the town, and an horrid scent of brimstone.... Upon which the guilty consciences of the
wretches, told them, the devil was come to fetch them away; and it so terrify'd them, that
an eminent reformation follow'd the sermons which that man of God preached thereupon." [Footnote:
Wonders of the Invisible World, p. 65.] They therefore saw the constant acquittals, the abandonment
of prosecutions, and the growth of incredulity with regret. The next year Cotton Mather laid
bare the workings of their minds with cynical frankness. [Footnote: More Wonders, p. 12.]

Mather prided himself on what he had done. [Footnote: Idem, p. 12.] Men with such beliefs,
and lured onward by such temptations, were incapable of letting the tremendous power superstition
gave them slip from their grasp without an effort on their own behalf; and accordingly it was
not long before the Mathers were once more at work. On the 10th of September, 1693, or about
nine months after the last spasms at Salem, and when the belief in enchantments was fast falling
into disrepute, a girl named Margaret Rule was taken with the accustomed symptoms in Boston.
Forthwith these two godly divines repaired to her bedside, and this is what took place:--

       *       *       *       *       *

Then Mr. M---- father and son came up, and others with them, in the whole were about thirty
or forty persons, they being sat, the father on a stool, and the son upon the bedside by her,
the son began to question her:

Margaret Rule, how do you do? Then a pause without any answer.

Question. What. Do there a great many witches sit upon you? Answer. Yes.

Question. Do you not know that there is a hard master?

Then she was in a fit. He laid his hand upon her face and nose, but, as he said, without perceiving
breath; then he brush'd her on the face with his glove, and rubb'd her stomach (her breast
not being covered with the bed clothes) and bid others do so too, and said it eased her, then
she revived.

Q. Don't you know there is a hard master? A. Yes.

Reply. Don't serve that hard master, you know who.

Q. Do you believe? Then again she was in a fit, and he again rub'd her breast &c.... He wrought
his fingers before her eyes and asked her if she saw the witches? A. No....

Q. Who is it that afflicts you? A. I know not, there is a great many of them....

Q. You have seen the black man, hant you? A. No.

Reply. I hope you never shall.

Q. You have had a book offered you, hant you?

A. No.

Q. The brushing of you gives you ease, don't it?

A. Yes. She turn'd herselfe, and a little groan'd.

Q. Now the witches scratch you, and pinch you, and bite you, don't they? A. Yes. Then he put
his hand upon her breast and belly, viz. on the clothes over her, and felt a living thing,
as he said; which moved the father also to feel, and some others.

Q. Don't you feel the live thing in the bed?

A. No....

Q. Shall we go to pray ... spelling the word.

A. Yes. The father went to prayer for perhaps half an hour, chiefly against the power of the
devil and witchcraft, and that God would bring out the afflicters.... After prayer he [the
son] proceeded.

Q. You did not hear when we were at prayer did you? A. Yes.

Q. You don't hear always? you don't hear sometimes past a word or two, do you? A. No. Then
turning him about said, this is just another Mercy Short....

Q. What does she eat or drink? A. Not eat at all; but drink rum. But his hour was well-nigh
come. Though it was impossible that retribution should be meted out to him for his crimes,
at least he did not escape unscathed, for Calef and the Brattles, who had long been on his
father's track and his, now seized him by the throat. He knew well they had been with him in
the chamber of Margaret Rule, that they had gathered all the evidence; and so when Calef sent
him a challenge to stand forth and defend himself, he shuffled and equivocated.

At length a rumor spread abroad that a volume was to be published exposing the whole black
history, and then the priest began to cower. His Diary is full of his prayers and lamentations.
"The book is printed, and the impression is this week arrived here.... I set myself to humble
myself before the Lord under these humbling and wondrous dispensations, and obtain the pardon
of my sins, that have rendered me worthy of such dispensations....

"28d. 10m. All the adversaries of the churches lay their heads together, as if, by blasting
of us, they hoped utterly to blow up all. The Lord fills my soul with consolations, inexpressible
consolations, when I think on my conformity to my Lord Jesus Christ in the injuries and reproaches
that are cast upon me....

"5d. 2m. Saturday [1701].--I find the enemies of the churches are set with an implacable enmity
against myself; and one vile fool, namely, R. Calf, is employed by them to go on with more
of his filthy scribbles to hurt my precious opportunities of glorifying my Lord Jesus Christ.
I had need be much in prayer unto my glorious Lord that he would preserve his poor servant
from the malice of this evil generation, and of that vile man particularly." [Footnote: Mass.
Hist. Soc. Proc. 1855-58, pp. 290-293.]

"More Wonders of the Invisible World" appeared in 1700, and such was the terror the clergy
still inspired it is said it had to be sent to London to be printed, and when it was published
no bookseller in Boston dared to offer it in his shop. [Footnote: Some Few Remarks, p. 9.]
Yet though it was burnt in the college yard by the order of Increase Mather, it was widely
read, and dealt the deathblow to the witchcraft superstition of New England. It did more than
this: it may be said to mark an era in the intellectual development of Massachusetts, for it
shook to its centre that moral despotism which the pastors still kept almost unimpaired over
the minds of their congregations, by demonstrating to the people the necessity of thinking
for themselves. But what the fate of its authors would have been had the priests still ruled
may be guessed by the onslaught made on them by those who sat at the Mathers' feet. "Spit on,
Calf; thou shalt be but like the viper on Pauls hand, easily shaken off, and without any damage
to the servant of the Lord." [Footnote: Idem, p. 22.]

CHAPTER VIII.

BRATTLE CHURCH.

If the working of the human mind is mechanical, the quality of its action must largely depend
upon the training it receives. Viewed as civilizing agents, therefore, systems of education
might be tested by their tendency to accelerate or retard the intellectual development of the
race. The proposition is capable of being presented with almost mathematical precision; the
receptive faculty begins to fail at a comparatively early age; thereafter new opinions are
assimilated with increasing difficulty until the power is lost. This progressive period of
life, which is at best brief, may, however, be indefinitely shortened by the interposition
of artificial obstacles, which have to be overcome by a waste of time and energy, before the
reason can act with freedom; and when these obstacles are sufficiently formidable, the whole
time is consumed and men are stationary. The most effectual impediments are those prejudices
which are so easily implanted in youth, and which acquire tremendous power when based on superstitious
terrors. Herein, then, lies the radical divergence between theological and scientific training:
the one, by inculcating that tradition is sacred, that accurate investigation is sacrilege,
certain to be visited with terrific punishment, and that the highest moral virtue is submission
to authority, seeks to paralyze exact thought, and to produce a condition in which dogmatic
statements of fact, and despotic rules of conduct, will be received with abject resignation;
the other, by stimulating the curiosity, endeavors to provoke inquiry, and, by encouraging
a scrutiny of what is obscure, tries to put the mind in an impartial and questioning attitude
toward all the phenomena of the universe.

The two methods are irreconcilable, and spring from the great primary instincts which are called
conservatism and liberality. Necessarily the movement of any community must correspond exactly
with the preponderance of liberalism. Where the theological incubus is unresisted it takes
the form of a sacred caste, as among the Hindoos; appreciable advance then ceases, except from
some external pressure, such as conquest. The same tendencies in a mitigated form are seen
in Spain, whereas Germany is scientific.

Such being the ceaseless conflict between these natural forces, the vantage-points for which
the opposing parties have always struggled in western Europe are the pulpits and the universities.
Through women the church can reach children at their most impressionable age, while at the
universities the teachers are taught. Obviously, if a priesthood can control both positions
their influence must be immense. At the beginning of any movement the conservatives are almost
necessarily in possession, and their worst reverses have come from defection from within; for
unless their organization is so perfect as not only to be animated by a single purpose, but
capable of being controlled by a single will, liberals will penetrate within the fold, and
if they can maintain their footing and preach with the authority of the ancient tradition it
leads to revolution. It was thus the Reformation was accomplished.

The clergy of Massachusetts, with the true priestly instinct, took in the bearings of their
situation from the instant they recognized that their political supremacy was passing away,
and in order to keep their organization in full vigor they addressed themselves with unabated
energy to enforcing the discipline which had been established; at the same time they set the
ablest of their number on guard at Harvard. But the task was beyond their strength; they might
as well have tried to dam the rising tide with sand.

There is a limit to the capacity of even the most gifted man, and Increase Mather committed
a fatal error when he tried to be professor, clergyman, and statesman at once. He was, it is
true, made president in 1685, but the next year John Leverett and William Brattle were chosen
tutors and fellows, who soon developed into ardent liberals; so it happened that when the reverend
rector went abroad in 1688, in his character of politician, he left the college in the complete
control of his adversaries. He was absent four years, and during this interval the man was
educated who was destined to overthrow the Cambridge Platform, the corner-stone of the conservative
power.

Benjamin Colman was one of Leverett's favorite pupils and the intimate friend of Pemberton.
As he was to be a minister, he stayed at Cambridge until he took his master's degree in 1695;
he then sailed at once for England in the Swan. When she had been some weeks at sea she was
attacked by a French privateer, who took her after a sharp action. During the fight Colman
attracted attention by his coolness; but he declared that though he fired like the rest, "he
was sensible of no courage but of a great deal of fear; and when they had received two or three
broadsides he wondered when his courage would come, as he had heard others talk." [Footnote:
Life of B. Colman, p. 6.]

After the capture the Frenchmen stripped him and put him in the hold, and had it not been for
a Madame Allaire, who kept his money for him, he might very possibly have perished from the
exposure of an imprisonment in France, for his lungs were delicate. Moreover, at this time
of his life he was always a pauper, for he was not only naturally generous, but so innocent
and confiding as to fall a victim to any clumsy sharper. Of course he reached London penniless
and in great depression of spirits; but he soon became known among the dissenting clergy, and
at length settled at Bath, where he preached two years. He seems to have formed singularly
strong friendships while in England, one of which was with Mr. Walter Singer, at whose house
he passed much time, and who wrote him at parting, "Methinks there is one place vacant in my
affections, which nobody can fill beside you. But this blessing was too great for me, and God
has reserved it for those that more deserved it.--I cannot but hope sometimes that Providence
has yet in store so much happiness for me, that I shall yet see you." [Footnote: Life of B.
Colman, p. 48.]

Meanwhile opinion was maturing fast at home; the passions of the witchcraft convulsion had
gone deep, and in 1697 a movement began under the guidance of Leverett and the Brattles to
form a liberal Congregational church. The close on which the meetinghouse was to stand was
conveyed by Thomas Brattle to trustees on January 10, 1698, and from the outset there seems
to have been no doubt as to whom the pastor should be. On the 10th of May, 1699, a formal invitation
was dispatched to Colman by a committee, of which Thomas Brattle was chairman, and it was accompanied
by letters from many prominent liberals. Leverett wrote, "I shall exceedingly rejoice at your
return to your country. We want persons of your character. The affair offered to your consideration
is of the greatest moment." William Brattle was even more emphatic, while Pemberton assured
him that "the gentlemen who solicit your return are mostly known to you--men of repute and
figure, from whom you may expect generous treatment; ... I believe your return will be pleasing
to all that know you, I am sure it will be inexpressibly so to your unfeigned friend and servant."
[Footnote: Life of B. Colman, pp. 43, 44.] It was, however, thought prudent to have him ordained
in London, since there was no probability that the clergy of Massachusetts would perform the
rite. When he landed in November, after an absence of four years, he was in the flush of early
manhood, highly trained for theological warfare, having seen the world, and by no means in
awe of his old pastor, the reverend president of Harvard.

The first step after his arrival was to declare the liberal policy, and this was done in a
manifesto which was published almost at once. [Footnote: History of Brattle St. Church, p.
20.]  The efficiency of the Congregational organization depended upon the perfection of the
guard which the ministers and the congregations mutually kept over each other. On the one hand
no dangerous element could creep in among the people through the laxness of the elder, since
all candidates for the communion had to pass through the ordeal of a public examination; on
the other the orthodoxy of the ministers was provided for, not only by restricting the elective
body to the communicants, but by the power of the ordained clergy to "except against any election
of a pastor who ... may be ... unfit for the common service of the gospel." [Footnote: Propositions
determined by the Assembly of Ministers. Magnalia, bk. 5, Hist. Remarks, Section 8.]

The declaration of the Brattle Street "undertakers" cut this system at the root, for they announced
their intention to dispense with the relation of experiences, thus practically throwing their
communion open to all respectable persons who would confess the Westminster Creed; and more
fatal still, they absolutely destroyed the homogeneousness of the ecclesiastical constituency:
"We cannot confine the right of chusing a minister to the male communicants alone, but we think
that every baptized adult person who contributes to the maintenance, should have a vote in
electing." [Footnote: History of Brattle St. Church, p. 25, Prop. 16.]

They also proposed several innovations of minor importance, such as relaxing the baptismal
regulations, and somewhat changing the established service by having the Bible read without
comment.

Their temporal power was gone, toleration was the law of the land they had once possessed,
and now an onslaught was to be made upon the intellectual ascendency which the clergy felt
certain of maintaining over their people, if only they could enforce obedience in their own
ranks. The danger, too, was the more alarming because so insidious; for, though their propositions
seemed reasonable, it was perfectly obvious that should the liberals succeed in forcing their
church within the pale of the orthodox communion, discipline must end, and the pulpits might
at any time be filled with men capable of teaching the most subversive doctrines. Although
such might be the inexorable destiny of the Massachusetts hierarchy, it was not in ecclesiastical
human nature to accept the dispensation with meekness, and the utterances of the conservative
divines seem hardly to breathe the spirit of that gospel they preached at such interminable length.

Yet it was very difficult to devise a scheme of resistance. They were powerless to coerce;
for, although Increase Mather had taken care, when at the summit of his power, to have a statute
passed which had the effect of reenacting the Cambridge Platform, it had been disapproved by
the king; therefore, moral intimidation was the only weapon which could be employed. Now, aside
from the fact that men like Thomas Brattle and Leverett were not timorous, their position was
at this moment very strong from the stand they had taken in the witchcraft troubles, and worst
of all, they were openly supported by William Brattle, who was already a minister, and by Pemberton,
who was a fellow of Harvard, and soon to be ordained.

The attack was, however, begun by Mr. Higginson, and Mr. Noyes, of witchcraft memory, in a
long rebuke, whose temper may be imagined from such a sentence as this: "We cannot but think
you might have entered upon your declaration with more reverence and humility than so solemnly
to appeal to God, your judge, that you do it with all the sincerity and seriousness the nature
of your engagement commands from you; seeing you were most of you much unstudied in the controversial
points of church order and discipline, and yet did not advise with the neighboring churches
... but with a great deal of confidence and freedom, set up by yourselves." The letter then
goes on to adjure them to revoke the manifesto, and adjust matters with the "neighbouring elders,"
"that so the right hand of fellowship may be given to your pastor by other pastors, ... and
that you may not be the beginning of a schism that will dishonour God, ... and be a matter
of triumph to the bad." [Footnote: History of Brattle St. Church, pp. 29-37.]

Cotton Mather's Diary, however, gives the most pleasing view of the high churchmen:--

"1699. 7th, 10th m. (Dec.) I see another day of temptation begun upon the town and land. A
company of headstrong men in the town, the chief of whom are full of malignity to the holy
ways of our churches, have built in the town another meetinghouse. To delude many better meaning
men in their own company, and the churches in the neighbourhood, they passed a vote in the
foundation of the proceedings that they would not vary from the practice of these churches,
except in one little particular.

"But a young man born and bred here, and hence gone for England, is now returned hither at
their invitation, equipped with an ordination to qualify him for all that is intended on his
returning and arriving here; these fallacious people desert their vote, and without the advice
or knowledge of the ministers in the vicinity, they have published, under the title of a manifesto,
certain articles that utterly subvert our churches, and invite an ill party, through all the
country, to throw all into confusion on the first opportunities. This drives the ministers
that would be faithful unto the Lord Jesus Christ, and his interests in the churches, unto
a necessity of appearing for their defence. No little part of these actions must unavoidably
fall to my share. I have already written a large monitory letter to these innovators, which,
though most lovingly penned, yet enrages their violent and imperious lusts to carry on the
apostacy."

"1699. 5th d. 11th m. (Saturday.) I see Satan beginning a terrible shake in the churches of
New England, and the innovators that had set up a new church in Boston (a new one indeed!)
have made a day of temptation among us. The men are ignorant, arrogant, obstinate, and full
of malice and slander, and they fill the land with lies, in the misrepresentations whereof
I am a very singular sufferer. Wherefore I set apart this day again for prayer in my study,
to cry mightily unto God." [Footnote: History of Harvard, Quincy, i. 486, 487, App. x.]

"21st d. 11th m. The people of the new church in Boston, who, by their late manifesto, went
on in an ill way, and in a worse frame, and the town was filled with sin, and especially with
slanders, wherein especially my father and myself were sufferers. We two, with many prayers
and studies, and with humble resignation of our names unto the Lord, prepared a faithful antidote
for our churches against the infection of the example, which we feared this company had given
them, and we put it into the press. But when the first sheet was near composed at the press,
I stopped it, with a desire to make one attempt more for the bringing of this people to reason.
I drew up a proposal, and, with another minister, carried it unto them, who at first rejected
it, but afterward so far embraced it, as to promise that they will the next week publicly recognize
their covenant with God and one another, and therewithall declare their adherence to the Heads
of Agreement of the United Brethren in England, and request the communion of our churches in
that foundation." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 487, App. x.]

This last statement is marked by the exuberance of imagination for which the Mathers are so
famed. In truth, Dr. Mather had nothing to do with the settlement. The facts were these: after
Brattle Street Church was organized, the congregation voted that Mr. Colman should ask the
ministers of the town to keep a day of prayer with them. He had the spirit too inflamed by divine love to see what that was to
funny and interesting in this quirky character, to contemplate and study through the eyes of an
artist. That violence, even better, that ferocity, sensitive soul troubled; the lack of interest
that the priest showed the theological issues or tiles above him indignant; but above all,
greed sordid old man, who was with one foot in the grave Minister of Him who said, "ye have
no gold or silver, or money, or your you bear travel bag, two coats, nor shoes, nor staff,
"caused him invincible repugnance. The pastor of Peñascosa rich man passed through, and it was
in effect. Fifty years on run populous parish and living with extreme economy had enabled him
to put together a capital respectable. He had bought many lands, but said he kept at home too large
amount in cash. And so it must be, who worked on attentive monitoring, especially night. After
ending his frugal dinner and prayed an Our Father in thanksgiving D. Michael got up and staggered
a little, because the torso was tough on him that legs, went to the dresser, took from her a
couple of guns huge spark, and one in each hand he headed to his bedroom, under the astonished
gaze of Gil. For though all was repeating the scene, never stopped producing painful astonishment.
A priest with two guns in hand, in those same hands the next day had to play the body of our Redeemer!
Had ever seen his teacher, rector of the seminary Lancia in bed. On her bedside table was a brass
crucifix and a few disciplines bloody. When comparing the two priests, was not only grow their
admiration for this virtuous man, but also, in spite of his, was born in his mind a certain
contempt your pastor.

This however, his humility forced him to reject this feeling and repeated the phrase common to
all mystics, "so, it is better than me."

Not only, then watched him as his superior and it taxed all due respect, but made efforts to
portray morally better than him. In the confessional, he offered complicated cases of conscience,
not entering into the formulas of the books he had studied. Seeing a hurry to solve them went to D. Miguel
in demand for light, the case exposed him sheepishly asking for advice. The former leader listened
with obvious impatience, furrowing his brow grim, used to answer roughly:

- Go forward and not dwell on Patarata.

Patarata!

The well qualified Peñascosa cure the excesses of consciousness, pain remorse. The lieutenant
shook and did her best thoughts scare at that time flocked to his brain. Concluded not to ask
any advice, and acted wisely. The moral theology of Don Miguel was certainly weaker than the
tactics military.

After collecting the last gasp of the dying, the greatest joy of the novice priest was sitting
in the confessional and clarify the consciousness of his penitents and lead the path of perfection.
But this joy was waning to see the smallness, the unimportance of subjects who approached his court. Almost
all were women: a miracle arrived a man to confess. These women are always the same and with
the same sins, they concluded bored. At first, watching the docility with which listened to his
advice, the burning showing mercy and love of the sacraments, he imagined that he could easily make
each day better, lifted to sainthood or nearly so. Soon became convinced that it was more
difficult to change the lives of those pious than a hardened sinner. Caused him great discouragement
began nonadas those annoyed, those domestic confidences dull and foolish with seasoned devotees
that their confessions. And I could not but admire his colleague P. Narciso, who spent the
dead hours confessing with the same hobby the first day. Not only confessed, but, for one
reason or another, was always between of them: sometimes they were the Flores de Mayo, others the
ninth of the Daughters of Mary, others congregation of St. Vincent de Paul, etc.. Fr Narcissus
was, as we know, the spiritual director and female idol of rocks.

However, since the arrival of P. Gil the people, the herd had suffered
some casualties.

Several pious left his cassock protective splint placed under the new toilets. He had no verbosity
and grace of P. Narciso, and was happy to spend little jokes salt with their penitents, but instead
had a delicate figure like a cherub, a smile sweet and melancholy so gentle and distinguished manners,
qualities that compensated well other. Some ladies and understood at least, and the rout was just
indicated. But the strange thing, how good the case was that the chaplain's favorite sheep Sarrió
Obdulia of whom whispered that the young artisans on the day of new mass, left also his pastor,
who bounded about spiritually, in the words of those in the garden Montesinos, and came humbly
prostrate at the feet of the young priest.

Two months after taking possession of his office it, was an afternoon
in the confessional praying for his breviary of pocket.

In the chapel where I used to sit there was no anyone. Two mujerucas who had confessed had already
left. Suddenly a towering figure and slender door half hid, where it entered some clarity,
not much. Fr Gil lifted eyes and recognized the daughter of Osuna. The known long view, though
he had never spoken with it. He knew that he was very assiduous penitent P. Narciso, and even had
reached their heard rumors that rejected, of course, indignantly. However, this young woman so
fond of the church, as loose and wandering, it was not nice. Obdulia had pale, extremely pale,
where gleaming black eyes as big and beautiful few. His black hair was also abundant, her figure
slim. Everything about him indicated a morbid temperament. I could not rightly call it beautiful,
but interesting and distinguished. He moved slowly through the chapel. The young cleric believed
to come to him any questions regarding general communion the next day. But instead, Obdulia shyly
leaned forward and asked with a trembling voice, where strange warning emotion:

- Can I get you to confess?

He was surprised and unhappy.

It took a moment to respond, then said gravely dry states:

- For
that I am here to confess all you want.

The girl's pale face was colored heavily, his lips trembled like to
thank; but not let out any sound.

Knelt on the platform next to the confessional briefly prayed and went to order his haggard face
to the window grating.

Fr Gil was worried, very very satisfied with that choice. Not that confess a more or less graceful
young cared nothing. Hers was a pure temperament, calm. The struggle with the flesh side never
had great difficulty. Women were to him things weak, needy, therefore, protection and advice: If
you had to live always prevented against them was because the Holy Fathers were so established, bearing
in mind without doubt his frivolity and his sinful nature. The formidable fighter who had needed
support was not against the sensuality, but against his analytical spirit of curiosity, love of science.
His revered teacher, the seminary rector, delivered to him burning study of mathematics, physics,
philosophy, had sounded the alert. Why study so much? What drove in the final result, science?
Necessary to saved could learn well in a day, in one hour, one minute. The important thing
is not to know but pray and work. The virtuous man is the wiser, because he knows the way to
reach God and follows him. These truths were imposed soon to his spirit and he warned against scientific
curiosity and prompted him to suffocate. Encouraged by the advice and example his master had
killed the thirst for knowledge with the refreshment of prayer and penance. Did, like him, love
the inexplicable, absurd, because it better meets the aspirations of a soul in love.

But although she had not been for him never a danger, kept in the depths of his being to her
spiteful contempt that characterizes all the mystics, not by the
influence can exert on them, but for the unfortunate that displays
on other poor souls.

On this occasion said that the young woman ran over, his reputation as unpredictable, bizarre,
aroused in him a feeling of hostility that led to a rebuke so sweet in how severe the background
when the young man said he had no reason to vary as a confessor.

- I have not found anything wrong with it ... Only that I understand not just - concluded to manifest,
looking tight.

- Every minister of the Lord - Father replied gruffly Gil - understands what is sin, and that's
enough.

But the confession that followed, long, sincere, earnest, more than once watered by tears, did change
the layout of the clergy. Realized that they were not a soul was vulgar, Slut with a frivolous,
but with a Christian heart as his enthusiastic, played of divine love and eager to perfection.
There was certainly enough inconsistencies in his statements, details recounted ridiculous and
even stupid and worthless at times, but others showed big and strong, stomping their passions and
releasing their flight toward the light and truth. There time when his confessor novel thought
to be scrutinizing the soul of a saint to such point looked like the impetus, the mystical
yearnings of the young to what he had read the life of St. Teresa, St. Catherine of Siena
and other glorious mother of the Church. The account of the penance to which impressed him
deeply mortified and made forming it a high concept.

Without realizing it, Obdulia came to do on that evening a general confession. To communicate the new
confessor, the weaknesses of his temperament, the movements of his sinful soul, his whole life
he came to mind: a very sad life indeed! She was the daughter of the first wife that his father
had: he had never known her mother. His father had married other twice, but had not lasted
long their stepmothers. Was said in the town that the lewd Hunchback killed their wives tickling.
This species monstrous imagination flattered the vulgar, it plunged into the ear to her classmates
Obdulia to tease him. Oh, how he had been listening and watching the contempt mixed with terror
that his father inspired! This was for her loving and forgiving. The poor did not understand
the reason in such contempt, but for the hump that nature had given him. It seemed, as natural,
enormous injustice. Did he perchance to blame for not being born right as others? Tears still
remembered the night he tied him some drunken youths with a belt and he plunged into the sea
several times between jokes and laughter. Poor father! In what state of anger and misery came
home! What the girl did not know was that these young people he had been caught in a dark portal
little decent situation. It is painfully surprised every time I felt the fear that inspired his
friends, and when any of these, more benevolent the others, showing compassion, irritábase strongly
supporting his father heat was very good and I loved her dearly. His nature had always been poor
and sick: several times feared for his life. Children suffered from severe bleeding from the nose,
that left her bloodied, annihilated. He spent two years, from twelve to fourteen, paralytic of both
legs. His father had led a number of spa establishments to no avail: until one day, not knowing
how or why, suddenly walked. Many other disorders experienced his body, especially in the adolescent
period, but the most notable, or at least the most caught people's attention and which came to
light where it was spoken in the village, was an aberration appetite drove her to eat cal walls.
In vain attempts were made to his father and teachers to extract this vice punished her in vain,
was closeted, he tied his hands. The slightest slip, and wall was peeling and making deep holes
in it.

This and other aberrations disappeared to become a woman. Had a period, from ten and six to twenty
years, his health was strengthened considerably, which made a dashing
and handsome young man.

Soon dried the flower, however. Your health quebrantose again, and although there was no repeat
disorders strange past, began to decline visibly to feel frequent ailments. The same father
and his friends attributed these conditions their long prayers and penance. He had undertaken
a disproportionate enthusiasm practices pious, to frequent the sacraments and stay for hours in the
church. Despite all warnings and pleas from his father, never wanted to curb his mercy, before
was daily increasing. The influence of D. Narciso probably had a good part of it.

Obdulia reached twenty-eight years without having had more than a love, when had seventeen. Was
engaged to a young man from Lancia long periods spent in Peñascosa
staying with friends.

These love came to be formalized. We talked about wedding, she made clothes the bride, was fixed
at the time. Suddenly the boy's father on the island of Cuba, and night in the care packages it and
takes it, no one knows where. After the abortion marriage, nothing. The character of Obdulia,
usually joyful, it was from then melancholy and reserved. No doubt God's love was for her a
consolation in this failure of human love. His character underwent both a strange excitement.
Before any censorship burst out laughing and was not impressed, and now, more delicate observation
moved her strongly, made him shed copious tears. His pride had been so nervous so excitable,
that the slightest shock to him as a deep stab sentíalo. His conscience constantly accused her of
pride. He maintained a struggle against itself cruel, and could not that singular calm irritability.

Fr
Gil sounded that day and thereafter (because Obdulia confessed often) with deep true spirit of
pious emotion, to which his struggle with himself was even more interesting. It was one of those
souls who had only been described in mystical books. His ineffable sweetness submission to
receiving the advice and warnings, seduced him and was disturbed
at the same time: worried because he was very suspicious of himself,
he feared could not understand the longings burning, the lofty recesses
of a being superior to all those who had hitherto known.

He started strong focus on the strange secrets of the young, their scruples, their joys and terrors,
their visions, because he was from time to time.
 The
tendency to weaken the force of the discipline is obvious, yet they were led to abandon the
safe Biblical precedent, not only by their own early associations, but by their hatred of anything
savoring of Catholicism.

Men to be great leaders must exalt their cause above themselves; and if so godly a man as the
Rev. Increase Mather can be said to have had a human failing it was an inordinate love of money
and of flattery. The first of these peculiarities showed itself early in life when, as his
son says, he was reluctant to settle at the North Church, because of "views he had of greater
service elsewhere." [Footnote: Parentator, p. 25.] In other words, the parish was not liberal;
for it seems "the deacons ... were not spirited like some that have succeeded them; and the
leaders of the more honest people also, were men of a low, mean, sordid spirit.... For one
of his education, and erudition, and gentlemanly spirit, and conversation, to be so creepled
and kept in such a depressing poverty!--In these distresses, it was to little purpose for him
to make his complaint unto man! If he had, it would have been basely improved unto his disadvantage."
[Footnote: Idem, p. 30.] His diary teemed with repinings. "Oh! that the Lord Jesus, who hears
my complaints before him, would either give an heart to my people to look after my comfortable
subsistance among them, or ... remove me to another people, who will take care of me, that
so I may be in a capacity to attend his work, and glorify his name in my generation." [Footnote:
Idem, p. 33.] However, matters mended with him, for we are assured that "the Glorious One who
knew the works, and the service and the patience of this tempted man, ordered it, that several
gentlemen of good estate, and of better spirit, were become the members of his church;" and
from them he had "such filial usages... as took away from him all room of repenting, that he
had not under his temptations prosecuted a removal from them." [Footnote: Parentator, pp. 34, 35.]

The presidency of Harvard, though nominally the highest place a clergyman could hold in Massachusetts,
had always been one of poverty and self- denial; for the salary was paid by the legislature,
which, as the unfortunate Dunster had found, was not disposed to be generous. Therefore, although
Mr. Mather was chosen president in 1685, and was afterward confirmed as rector by Andros, he
was far too pious to be led again into those temptations from which he had been delivered by
the interposition of the Glorious One; and the last thing he proposed was to go into residence
and give up his congregation. Besides, he was engrossed in politics and went to England in
1688, where he stayed four years. Meanwhile the real control of education was left in the hands
of Leverett, who was appointed tutor in 1686, and of William Brattle, who was in full sympathy
with his policy. Among the many powers usurped by the old trading company was that of erecting
corporations; hence the effect of the judgment vacating the patent had been to annul the college
charter which had been granted by the General Court; [Footnote: 23 May, 1650. Mass. Rec. iii.
195.] and although the institution had gone on much as usual after the Revolution, its position
was felt to be precarious. Such being the situation when the patriarch came home in 1692 in
the plenitude of power, he conceived the idea of making himself the untrammelled master of
the university, and he forthwith caused a bill to be introduced into the legislature which
would certainly have produced that result. [Footnote: Province Laws, 1692-93, c. 10.] Nor did
he meet with any serious opposition in Massachusetts, where his power was, for the moment,
well-nigh supreme. His difficulty lay with the king, since the fixed policy of Great Britain
was to foster Episcopalianism, and of course to obtain some recognition for that sect at Cambridge.
And so it came to pass that all the advantage he reaped by the enactment of this singular law
was a degree of Doctor of Divinity [Footnote: Sept. 5, 1692. Quincy's History of Harvard, i.
71.] which he gave himself between the approval of the bill by Phips and its rejection at London.
The compliment was the more flattering, however, as it was the first ever granted in New England.
But the clouds were fast gathering over the head of this good man. Like many another benefactor
of his race, he was doomed to experience the pangs inflicted by ingratitude, and indeed his
pain was so acute he seldom lost an opportunity of giving it public expression; to use his
own words of some years later, "these are the last lecture sermons... to be preached by me....
The ill treatment which I have had from those from whom I had reason to have expected better,
have discouraged me from being any more concerned on such occasions." [Footnote: Address to
Sermon, The Righteous Man a Blessing, 1702.]

Certainly he was in a false position; he was necessarily unappreciated by the liberals, and
he had not only alienated many staunch conservatives by his acceptance of the charter, but
he had embittered them, by rigorously excluding all except his particular faction from Phips's
council. To his deep chagrin, the elections of 1693 went in favor of many of these thankless
men, and his discontent soon took the form of an intense longing to go abroad in some official
position which would give him importance. The only possible opening seemed to be to get himself
made agent to negotiate a charter for Harvard; and therefore he soon had "angelical" suggestions
that God needed him in England to glorify his name.

"1693. September 3d. As I was riding to preach at Cambridge, I prayed to God,--begged that
my labors might be blessed to the souls of the students; at the which I was much melted. Also
saying to the Lord, that some workings of his Providence seemed to intimate, that I must be
returned to England again; ... I was inexpressibly melted, and that for a considerable time,
and a stirring suggestion, that to England I must go. In this there was something extraordinary,
either divine or angelical."

"December 30th. Meltings before the Lord this day when praying, desiring being returned to
England again, there to do service to his name, and persuasions that the Lord will appear therein."

"1694. January 27th. Prayers and supplications that tidings may come from England, that may
be some direction to me, as to my returning thither or otherwise, as shall be most for his glory."

"March 13th. This morning with prayers and tears I begged of God that I might hear from my
friends and acquaintance in England something that should encourage and comfort me. Such tidings
are coming, but I know not what it is. God has heard me." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i.
475, 476, App. ix.]

His craving to escape from the country was increased by the nagging of the legislature; for
so early as December, 1693, the representatives passed the first of a long series of resolves,
"that the president of Harvard College for the time being shall reside there, as hath been
accustomed in time past." [Footnote: Court Rec. vi. 316.] Now this was precisely what the Reverend
Doctor was determined he would not do; nor could he resign without losing all hope of his agency;
so it is not surprising that as time went on he wrestled with the Deity.

1698. "September 25th. This day as I was wrestling with the Lord, he gave me glorious and heart-melting
persuasions, that he has work for me to do in England, for the glory of his name. My soul rejoiceth
in the Lord." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 480, App. ix.]

Doubtless his trials were severe, but the effect upon his temper was unfortunate. He brought
forward scheme after scheme, and the corporation was made to address the legislature, and then
the legislature was pestered to accede to the prayer of the corporation, until everybody was
wrought to a pitch of nervous irritation; he himself was always jotting in his Diary what he
had on foot, mixed with his hopes and prayers.

"1696. December 11th. I was with the representatives in the General Court, and did acquaint
them with my purpose of undertaking a voyage for England in the spring (if the Lord will),
in order to the attainment of a good settlement for the college."

"December 28th. The General Court have done nothing for the poor college.... The corporation
are desirous that I should go to England on the college's account."

1696. "April 19th (Sabbath.) In the morning, as I was praying in my closet, my heart was marvellously
melted with the persuasion, that I should glorify Christ in England."

"1697. June 7th. Discourse with ministers about the college, and the corporation unanimously
desired me to take a voyage for England on the college's account." [Footnote: History of Harvard,
i. 476, App. ix.]

But of what the senior tutor was doing with the rising generation he took no note at all. His
attention was probably first attracted by rumors of the Brattle Church revolt, for not till
1697 was he able to divert his thoughts from himself long enough to observe that all was not
as it should be at Cambridge. Then, at length, he made an effort to get rid of Leverett by
striking his name from the list of fellows when a bill for incorporation was brought into the
legislature; but this crafty politician had already become too strong in the house of representatives,
of which he was soon after made speaker.

Two years later, however, the conservative clergy made a determined effort and prepared a bill
containing a religious test, which they supported with a petition praying "that, in the charter
for the college, our holy religion may be secured to us and unto our posterity, by a provision,
that no person shall be chosen president, or fellow, of the college, but such as declare their
adherence unto the principles of reformation, which were espoused and intended by those who
first settled the country ... and have hitherto been the general profession of New England."
[Footnote: Idem, i. 99.] This time they narrowly missed success, for the bill passed the houses,
but was vetoed by Lord Bellomont.

Hitherto Cotton Mather had shown an unfilial lack of interest in his father's ambition to serve
the public; but this summer he also began to have assurances from God. One cause for his fervor
may have been the death of the Rev. Mr. Morton, who was conceded to stand next in succession
to the presidency, and he therefore supposed himself to be sure of the office should a vacancy
occur. [Footnote: Idem, i. 102.]

"1699. 7th d. 4th m. (June.) The General Court has, divers times of late years, had under consideration
the matter of the settlement of the college, which was like still to issue in a voyage of my
father to England, and the matter is now again considered. I have made much prayer about it
many and many a time. Nevertheless, I never could have my mind raised unto any particular faith
about it, one way or another. But this day, as I was (may I not say) in the spirit, it was
in a powerful manner assured me from heaven, that my father should one day be carried into
England, and that he shall there glorify the Lord Jesus Christ;... And thou, O Mather the younger,
shalt live to see this accomplished!" [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 482, 483, App. x.]

"16th d. 5th m. (July.) Being full of distress in my spirit, as I was at prayer in my study
at noon, it was told me from heaven, that my father shall be carried from me unto England,
and that my opportunities to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ will, on that occasion, be gloriously
accommodated."

"18th d. 5th m.... And now behold a most unintelligible dispensation! At this very time, even
about noon, instead of having the bill for the college enacted, as was expected, the governor
plainly rejected it, because of a provision therein, made for the religion of the country."

After the veto the patriarch seems to have got the upper hand for a season, and to have made
some arrangement by which he evicted his adversary, as appears by a very dissatisfied letter
written by Leverett in August, 1699: "As soon as I got home I was informed, that Rev. President
(I. M.), held a corporation at the college the 7th inst., and the said corporation, after the
publication of the new settlement, made choice of Mr. Flynt to be one of the tutors at college....
I have not the late act for incorporating the college at hand, nor have I seen the new temporary
settlement; but I perceive, that all the members of the late corporation were not notified
to be at the meeting. I can't say how legal these late proceedings are; but it is wonderful,
that an establishment for so short a time as till October next, should be made use of so soon
to introduce an unnecessary addition to that society." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 500,
App. xvi.]

A long weary year passed, during which Dr. Mather must have suffered keenly from the public
ingratitude; still, at its end he was happy, since he felt certain of being rewarded by the
Lord; for, just as the earl's administration was closing, he had succeeded by unremitting toil
in so adjusting the legislature as to think the spoil his own; when, alas, suddenly, without
warning, in the most distressing manner, the prize slipped into Bellomont's pocket. How severely
his faith was tried appears from his son's Diary.

"1700. 16th d. 4th mo. (Lord's Day.) I am going to relate one of the most astonishing things
that ever befell in all the time of my pilgrimage.

"A particular faith had been unaccountably produced in my father's heart, and in my own, that
God will carry him unto England, and there give him a short but great opportunity to glorify
the Lord Jesus Christ, before his entrance into the heavenly kingdom. If
she could not instill the idea of ​​forgiveness, if his memory was ineffective, the fault was entirely
of that man.

In the early days, candle plant had not even raised the moral issue at that time increased his torment.
But when the first momentum of the pain began to subside naturally, as he had to get used to
so fatal to the idea of ​​death as all the forces of his soul were concentrated to collect,
to guard, to immortalize the memory of being that had moved away never to return, his mind
began to point the reflection of whether the death that would blend of blind hatred and his
desire for revenge. At the instant the bullet across his murderous meats, closed his eyes to
the light, had appeared in your brain in the shadow of a reproach? Could it have been the last
thought reprehensible your life?

When candle plant is making these questions, the answer was not for
him doubtful: the deceased had forgiven.

And he should he, in turn, to forgive? If I wanted to be worthy of it, ought not to follow their example?
...

Sometimes she closed her eyes and leaned her forehead, invaded by memories of their good instruction,
almost ashamed to have forgotten for a moment. Sometimes rebelled: life can not wholly of love!
If evil is opposed to the pardon, what is the prize right? ... But then came to his mind the words
of his beloved: "If forgiveness is not given to evil, if he also opposes evil, where is the good when
you applied? "She also said you have to love justice, but this alone is not enough in life.
Since creatures human sin are too weak even when they have foreknowledge of their sins, it is
necessary be lenient with the sum too large for their mistakes.

"Justice is not forgiving is just !...» he had replied, and she: "Justice is powerless strict:
only goodness can overcome evil. "

He had nodded. Why had she consented? Had not been truthful at that time? And if truly had reason,
if no ulterior motive had received his word, ought not forgiving
in that trance?

By not forgiving was because then I had not been sincere, had pretended to earn it, to overcome
it! What should accuse him of hypocrisy last or weakness present?

That question came to believe that the truth is not always the same, that the contrasts of life
put man in opposition to itself without being able to impute bad faith. No, there was no lied to
recognize that goodness is necessary: ​​not showing, only to recall his preaching of forgiveness,
he'd understand? But how to accept it when his reason, his passion, his whole being wanted and
would necessarily want the punishment? Then I heard the following
words, as clearly and as firm as when she had uttered the "Truth is
one: recognize it at all is worth little, and it is not worthwhile
if you do not assert against our own interests ... " It had for all this been carried, had not some of the council been inconveniently
called off and absent. But now the whole affair of the college was left unto the management
of the Earl of Bellamont, so that all expectation of a voyage for my father unto England, on
any such occasion, is utterly at an end." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 484-486, App. x.]

During all these years the legislature had been steadily passing resolutions requiring the
president to go into residence; and in 1698 they went so far as to vote him the liberal salary,
for that age, of two hundred pounds, and appointed a committee to wait upon him. Judge Sewall
describes the interview:--

"Mr. President expostulated with Mr. Speaker ... about the votes being alter'd from 250 [L.?]."
... "We urg'd his going all we could; I told him of his birth and education here; that he look'd
at work rather than wages, all met in desiring him.... Objected want of a house, bill for corporation
not pass'd ... must needs preach once every week, which he preferred before the gold and silver
of the West-Indies. I told him would preach twice aday to the students. He said that [exposition]
was nothing like preaching." [Footnote: Sewall's Diary. Mass. Hist. Coll. fifth series, v.
487.] And in this the patriarch spoke the truth; for if there was anything he loved more than
money it was the incense of adulation which steamed up to his nostrils from a great congregation.
Of course he declined; and yet this importunity pained the good man, not because there was
any conflict in his mind between his duty to a cause he held sacred and his own interest, but
because it was "a thing contrary to the faith marvellously wrought into my soul, that God will
give me an opportunity to serve and glorify Christ in England, I set the day apart to cry to
heaven about it." [Footnote: History of Harvard, vi. 481, App. ix.]

There were limits, however, even to the patience of the Massachusetts Assembly with an orthodox
divine; and no sooner was the question of the agency decided by the appointment of Bellomont,
than it addressed itself resolutely to the seemingly hopeless task of forcing Dr. Mather to
settle in Cambridge or resign his office. On the 10th of July, 1700, they voted him two hundred
and twenty pounds a year, and they appointed a committee to obtain from him a categorical answer.
This time he thought it prudent to feign compliance; and after a "suitable place... for the
reception and entertainment of the president" had been prepared at the public expense, he moved
out of town and stayed till the 17th of October, when he went back to Boston, and wrote to
tell Stoughton his health was suffering. His disingenuousness seems to have given Leverett
the opportunity for which he had been waiting; and his acting as chairman of a committee appointed
by the representatives suggests his having forced the issue; it was resolved that, should Mr.
Mather be absent from the college, his duties should devolve upon Samuel Willard, the vice-president;
[Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 111; Court Rec. vii. 172, 175.] and in March the committee
apparently reported the president's house to be in good condition. Stimulated by this hint,
the doctor went back to Cambridge and stayed a little more than three months, when he wrote
a characteristic note to Stoughton, who was acting governor. "I promised the last General Court
to take care of the college until the Commencement. Accordingly I have been residing in Cambridge
these three months. I am determined (if the Lord will) to return to Boston the next week, and
no more return to reside in Cambridge; for it is not reasonable to desire me to be (as, out
of respect to the public interest, I have been six months within this twelve) any longer absent
from my family.... I do therefore earnestly desire, that the General Court would... think of
another president.... It would be fatal to the interest of religion, if a person disaffected
to the order of the Gospel, professed and practised in these churches, should preside over
this society. I know the General Assembly, out of their regard to the interest of Christ, will
take care to prevent it." [Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 501, App. xvii.] Yet though he
himself begged the legislature to select his successor, in his inordinate vanity he did not
dream of being taken at his word; so when he was invited to meet both houses in the council
chamber he explained with perfect cheerfulness how "he was now removed from Cambridge to Boston,
and ... did not think fitt to continue his residence there, ... but, if the court thought fit
to desire he should continue his care of the colledge as formerly, he would do so." [Footnote:
Court Records, vii. 229.]

Increase Mather delighted to blazon himself as Christ's foremost champion in the land. He predicted,
and with reason, that should those who had been already designated succeed him at Harvard,
it would be fatal to that cause to which his life was vowed. The alternative was presented
of serving himself or God, and to him it seemed unreasonable of his friends to expect of him
a choice. And yet when, as was his wont, he would describe himself from the pulpit, as a refulgent
beacon blazing before New England, he would use such words as these: "Every ... one of a publick
spirit ... will deny himself as to his worldly interests, provided he may thereby promove the
welfare of his people.... He will not only deny himself, but if called thereto, will encounter
the greatest difficulties and dangers for the publicks sake." [Footnote: Sermon, The Publick
Spirited Man, pp. 7, 9.]

The man had presumed too far; the world was wearying of him. On September 6, 1701, the government
was transferred to Samuel Willard, the vice- president, and Harvard was lost forever. [Footnote:
History of Harvard, i. 116.]

No education is so baleful as the ecclesiastical, because it breeds the belief in men that
resistance to their will is not only a wrong to their country and themselves, but a sacrilege
toward God. The Mathers were now to give an illustration of the degree to which the theocratic
training debauched the mind; and it is only necessary to observe that Samuel Sewall, who tells
the story, was educated for the ministry, and was perhaps as staunch a conservative as there
was in the province.

1701, "October 20. Mr. Cotton Mather came to Mr. Wilkins's shop, and there talked very sharply
against me as if I had used his father worse than a neger; spake so loud that people in the
street might hear him.... I had read in the morn Mr. Dod's saying; Sanctified afflictions are
good promotions. I found it now a cordial."

"October 9. I sent Mr. Increase Mather a hanch of very good venison; I hope in that I did not
treat him as a negro."

"October 2, 1701. I, with Major Walley and Capt. Samuel Checkly, speak with Mr. Cotton Mather
at Mr. Wilkins's.... I told him of his book of the Law of Kindness for the Tongue, whether
this were correspondent with that. Whether correspondent with Christ's rule:

"He said, having spoken to me before there was no need to speak to me again; and so justified
his reviling me behind my back. Charg'd the council with lying, hypocrisy, tricks, and I know
not what all. I ask'd him if it were done with that meekness as it should; Answer'd, Yes. Charg'd
the council in general, and then shew'd my share, which was my speech in council; viz. If Mr.
Mather should goe to Cambridge again to reside there with a resolution not to read the Scriptures,
and expound in the Hall: I fear the example of it will do more hurt than his going thither
will doe good. This speech I owned.... I ask'd him if I should supose he had done somthing
amiss in his church as an officer; whether it would be well for me to exclaim against him in
the street for it."

"Thorsday October 23. Mr. Increase Mather said at Mr. Wilkins's, If I am a servant of Jesus
Christ, some great judgment will fall on Capt. Sewall, or his family." [Footnote: Sewall's
Diary. Mass. Hist. Coll. fifth series, vi. 43-45.]

Had the patriarch been capable of a disinterested action, for the sake of those principles
he professed to love, he would have stopped Willard's presidency, no matter at what personal
cost, for he knew him to be no better than a liberal in disguise, and he had already quarrelled
bitterly with him in 1697 when he was trying to eject Leverett. Sewall noted on "Nov. 20....
Mr. Willard told me of the falling out between the president and him about chusing fellows
last Monday. Mr. Mather has sent him word, he will never come to his house more till he give
him satisfaction." [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. fifth series, v. 464.] But they had in reality
separated years before; for when, in the witchcraft terror, Willard was cried out upon, and
had to look a shameful death in the face, he learned to feel that the men who were willing
to risk their lives to save him were by no means public enemies. And so, as the vice-president
lived in Boston, the administration of the college was left very much to Leverett and the Brattles,
who were presently reinstated.

Joseph Dudley was the son of that old governor who wrote the verses about the cockatrice to
be hatched by toleration, yet he inherited very little of his father's disposition. He was
bred for the ministry, and as the career did not attract him, he turned to politics, in which
he made a brilliant opening. At first he was the hope of the high churchmen, but they afterward
learned to hate him with a rancor exceptional even toward their enemies. And he gave them only
too good a handle against him, for he was guilty of the error of selling himself without reserve
to the Andros government. At the Revolution he suffered a long imprisonment, and afterward
went to England, where he passed most of William's reign. There his ability soon brought him
forward, he was made lieutenant-governor of the Isle of Wight, was returned to Parliament,
and at last appointed governor by Queen Anne. Though Massachusetts owes a deeper debt to few
of her chief magistrates, there are few who have found scantier praise at the hands of her
historians. He was, it is true, an unscrupulous politician and courtier, but his mind was broad
and vigorous, his policy wise and liberal, and at the moment of his power his influence was
of inestimable value.

Among his other gifts, he was endowed with infinite tact, and when working for his office he
managed not only to conciliate the Mathers, but even to induce the son to write a letter in
his favor; and so when he arrived in 1702 they were both sedulous in their attentions in the
expectation of controlling him. A month had not passed, however, before this ominous entry
was made in the younger's diary:--

"June 16, 1702. [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. first series, iii. 137.]

Leverett, on the contrary, now reached his zenith; from the house he passed into the council
and became one of Dudley's most trusted advisers. The Mathers were no match for these two men,
and few routs have been more disastrous than theirs. Lord Bellomont's sudden death had put
an end to all hope of obtaining a charter by compromise with England, and no further action
had been taken, when, on September 12, 1707, Willard died. On the 28th of October the fellows
met and chose John Leverett president of Harvard College; and then came a demonstration which
proved not only Increase Mather's prescience, when he foretold how a liberal university would
kill a disciplined church, but which shows the mighty influence a devoted teacher can have
upon his age. Thirty-nine ministers addressed Governor Dudley thus:--

"We have lately, with great joy, understood the great and early care that our brethren, who
have the present care and oversight of the college at Cambridge, have taken, ... by their unanimous
choice of Mr. John Leverett, ... to be the president ... Your Excellency personally knows Mr.
Leverett so well, that we shall say the less of him. However, we cannot but give this testimony
of our great affection to and esteem for him; that we are abundantly satisfied ... of his religion,
learning, and other excellent accomplishments for that eminent service, a long experience of
which we had while he was senior fellow of that house; for that, under the wise and faithful
government of him, and the Rev. Mr. Brattle, of Cambridge, the greatest part of the now rising
ministry in New England were happily educated; and we hope and promise ourselves, through the
blessing of the God of our fathers, to see religion and learning thrive and flourish in that
society, under Mr. Leverett's wise conduct and influence, as much as ever yet it hath done."
[Footnote: History of Harvard, i. 504, App. xx.]

His salary was only one hundred and fifty pounds a year; but the man worked for love of a great
cause, and did not stop to haggle. Nor were he and Dudley of the temper to leave a task half
done. Undoubtedly at the governor's instigation, a resolve was introduced into the Assembly
reviving the Act of 1650 by which the university had been incorporated, and it is by the sanction
of this lawless and masterly feat of statesmanship that Harvard has been administered for almost
two hundred years.

Sewall tells how Dudley went out in state to inaugurate his friend. "The governour prepared
a Latin speech for instalment of the president. Then took the president by the hand and led
him down into the hall;... The governour sat with his back against a noble fire.... Then the
governour read his speech ... and mov'd the books in token of their delivery. Then president
made a short Latin speech, importing the difficulties discouraging, and yet that he did accept:
... Clos'd with the hymn to the Trinity. Had a very good dinner upon 3 or 4 tables.... Got
home very well. Laus Deo." [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. fifth series, vi. 209.]

Nor did Dudley fail to provide the new executive with fit support. By the old law he had revived
the corporation was reduced to seven; of this board Leverett himself was one, and on the day
he took his office both the Brattles and Pemberton were also appointed. And more than this,
when, a few years later, Pemberton died, the arch-rebel, Benjamin Colman, was chosen in his
place. The liberal triumph was complete, and in looking back through the vista of the past,
there are few pages of our history more strongly stamped with the native energy of the New
England mind than this brilliant capture of Harvard, by which the ancient cradle of bigotry
and superstition was made the home of American liberal thought. As for the Mathers, when they
found themselves beaten in fair fight, they conceived a revenge so dastardly that Pemberton
declared with much emotion he would humble them, were he governor, though it cost him his head.
Being unable longer to withstand Dudley by honorable means, they tried to blast him by charging
him with felony. Their letters are too long to be reproduced in full; but their purport may
be guessed by the extracts given, and to this day they remain choice gems of theocratic morality.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR, That I have had a singular respect for you, the Lord knows; but that since your arrival
to the government, my charitable expectations have been greatly disappointed, I may not deny....

1st. I am afraid you cannot clear yourself from the guilt of bribery and unrighteousness....

2d. I am afraid that you have not been true to the interest of your country, as God (considering
his marvellous dispensations towards you) and his people have expected from you....

3d. I am afraid that you cannot clear yourself from the guilt of much hypocrisy and falseness
in the affair of the college....

4th. I am afraid that the guilt of innocent blood is still crying in the ears of the Lord against
you. I mean the blood of Leister and Milburn. My Lord Bellamont said to me, that he was one
of the committee of Parliament who examined the matter; and that those men were not only murdered,
but barbarously murdered....

5th. I am afraid that the Lord is offended with you, in that you ordinarily forsake the worship
of God in the holy church to which you are related, in the afternoon on the Lord's day, and
after the publick exercise, spend the whole time with some persons reputed very ungodly men.
I am sure your father did not so.... Would you choose to be with them or such as they are in
another world, unto which you are hastening?... I am under pressures of conscience to bear
a publick testimony without respect of persons.... I trust in Christ that when I am gone, I
shall obtain a good report of my having been faithful before him. To his mercy I commend you,
and remain in him,

Yours to serve, I. MATHER. [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. first series, iii. 126.] BOSTON, January
20, 1707-8. To the Governour.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOSTON, Jan. 20, 1707-8.

Sir, There have appeared such things in your conduct, that a just concern for the welfare of
your excellency seems to render it necessary, that you should be faithfully advised of them....
You will give me leave to write nothing, but in a style, whereof an ignorant mob, to whom (as
well as the General Assembly) you think fit to communicate what fragments you please of my
letters, must be competent judges. I must proceed accordingly.... I weakly believed that the
wicked and horrid things done before the righteous Revolution, had been heartily repented of;
and that the rueful business at New York, which many illustrious persons ... called a barbarous
murder, ... had been considered with such a repentance, as might save you and your family from
any further storms of heaven for the revenging of it.... Sir, your snare has been that thing,
the hatred whereof is most expressly required of the ruler, namely COVETOUSNESS. When a governour
shall make his government more an engine to enrich himself, than to befriend his country, and
shall by the unhallowed hunger of riches be prevailed withal to do many wrong, base, dishonourable
things; it is a covetousness which will shut out from the kingdom of heaven; and sometimes
the loss of a government on earth also is the punishment of it.... The main channel of that
covetousness has been the reign of bribery, which you, sir, have set up in the land, where
it was hardly known, till you brought it in fashion.... And there lie affidavits before the
queen and council, which affirm that you have been guilty of it in very many instances. I do
also know that you have....

Sir, you are sensible that there is a judgment to come, wherein the glorious Lord will demand,
how far  you aimed at serving him in your government; ... how far you did in your government
encourage those that had most of his image upon them, or place your eyes on the wicked of the
land. Your age and health, as well as other circumstances, greatly invite you, sir, to entertain
awful thoughts of this matter, and solicit the divine mercy through the only sacrifice....
Yet if the troubles you brought on yourself should procure your abdication and recess unto
a more private condition, and your present parasites forsake you, as you may be sure they will,
I should think it my duty to do you all the good offices imaginable.

Finally, I can forgive and forget injuries; and I hope I am somewhat ready for sunset; the
more for having discharged the duty of this letter....

Your humble and faithful servant,

COTTON MATHER. [Footnote: Mass. Hist. Coll. first series, iii. 128.]

       *       *       *       *       *

But these venomous priests had tried their fangs upon a resolute and an able man. Dudley shook
them off like vermin.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENTLEMEN, Yours of the 20th instant I received; and the contents, both as to the matter and
manner, astonish me to the last degree. The poor lady was shortened and had only encouragement
to finish with a lower voice

--... At least, that happens to me ...

- And it happens to everyone who has a heart frank, lady - Obdulia
said impetuously.

- Only the envious, the malicious know gild the
poison pill and stick the dagger when it seems they are doing a caress.

The

voice of the young left upset, a little hoarse.

D. Narciso malignant chuckled and said with ironic emphasis:

- Look at how many things known about moral theology Miss! Doctor will have to declare of the
Church, and Santa Teresa.

- Wow, not bad that! Jo! Jo!

So Doctor of the Church! Jo! Jo! ... But what perverse is this D. Narciso! Jo! Jo! Jo! ... Much
D. Narciso!

- Do not laugh so loud, D. Melchor, who can jump the teeth - said the young, whose eyes came
a flash of anger.

Fr Melchor suddenly stopped laughing. The cleric, aged thirty-five to forty , tall, with regular
features, large dark eyes expressionless, and sad figure descuadernada,
boasted, according to public voice, handsome, just as intelligent,
evil, illustrated, etc., etc. Obdulia phrase made a terrible effect,
because I imagined that what the denture no one knew better than God
and dentist who had Lancia position.

Muttered a few incoherent sentences, but Obdulia continued ignoring him

- Theology I just know that priests are required to have prayer and the praise of not praying
is more typical of that wicked ministers of the Lord.

He said calmly and naturally became more incisive and deep the scratch.

- "Where have you learned so much, miss? - Asked D. Narciso, puzzled now.

- As I learned in catechism explained and masterful sermons Lancia
... whom they say that you imitate ... but nothing more than gestures,
you know?

D. Narciso was wounded to the quick of his being, because in fact doing everything possible
to look like the master, sacred notable speaker. He was silent a few moments and available to
answer when he came to stop the shooting the entrance of a new Miss called Candida, tall, thin,
lean and tight, the family of cod. Fortuna had D. Narciso, since the dispute had to lose. Obdulia
had a vivid imagination, and before being given to the mystique enjoyed
a reputation for lively and funny among friends.

Ms Eloisa took the opportunity to change the conversation, which had become dangerous. Candida behind
Ms Theodora entered. It came accompanied by D. Juan Casanova. This straight and stately gentleman
was accustomed from time immemorial to the gathering by night Ms Theodora. When it came to her friend
Ms Eloisa, which happened a or twice a week, accompanied her along with the servant. D. Peregrin,
after he arrived of bureaucratic tour in Catalonia, also acquired the habit of hanging out all
evenings at home of Ms Theodora.

Unable to figure out when and how was in the mind of the old civil government official Tarragona
the idea of ​​supplanting his brother in the heart of the cool girl, but is ascertained thing was
born, and was developed with extraordinary strength in no time. Began to be taxed a thousand
attentions, to recreate the delicious repertoire of her memories
of employee to make a show in the presence of a subtle wit, an amazing
facility for puns.

Also sought to demonstrate his undisputed intellectual superiority over his brother, leading
the opposite of what he said, smiling contemptuously when he spoke,
vejándole Finally, a thousand ways.

Ms Theodora, however, stubbornly resisted this impersonation. But should being well convinced
of the superiority of D. Peregrin, a man of world and scholar therefore no longer continue
lavishing Don Juan the same signs of affection. On the contrary, the scorn of his brother only
served to manifest it more alive than before. This embittered the heart of Mr. Peregrin. It was the
strongest motive of resentment among many who had attacked his brother,
after height.

Candida was to kiss the hand of P. Melchor, who was the daughter of confession, and consoled him
with respect, submission and the affection with which he began to speak, the failure that had
just experienced.

Hardly settled all again, D. Peregrin, who until then had remained within an ordinary talkativeness,
stimulated by the presence of Ms Teodora, wanted to graceful sample of their wonderful skills
to enliven any gathering. Grabbed by the hair the opportunity it gave D. Narciso, to censor what
they were badly paved streets of rocks, to say with his shrill voice and penetrating in a pause:

-
When I was governor of Tarragona ...

- It seemed Tarragona! - Adviser said dully, as he placed the letters.

Those who were nearby heard the cry and laugh. To the ears of D. Peregrin was a clatter, paused and
looked cowardly Director. Then he went to decision her story. The fifteen days he had served
the government of Tarragona, in the absence of disease governor and secretary, were the golden
age of the existence of Mr. Peregrin, sweet and poetic period which rattled remember always your
heart. Many events in those two weeks! Many brilliant images of glory and power arose in his mind to think
of them! The smallest details of such a beautiful dream teníalos present which if they had
just made. Could say how many times it had rained in those fifteen days, what I ate and drank,
what color were the pants he spent.

For a time, when he spoke of this time, he would say: - "Making governor in Tarragona me ..." Later replaced
the sentence with this: - "When I was governor of Tarragona ..."

And when he was governor of Tarragona happened that the local press complained about the abandonment
of streets, blaming, like everything else that was wrong, the conservative administration. Then him
responsible for ensuring the government and the party had called the mayor to his office and told
him: "My friend ..." Here is a run of observations D. Peregrin, more the repeated, grew more vigorous,
until it became scathing invective. Mayor I answered this and that (the mayor's response was
becoming weaker and insignificant). Then it without breaking down, less or more, as calmly, as he
says nothing, he replied: "Dear Mayor, you have two choices: either the suspension or immediate
settlement of the streets. "

- The next day, very early, were working two crews of workers on the streets - finished D. said
Peregrin with a cold smirk. The conclusion and the smile were all it was not going slowly changing
in an interesting anecdote.

Or because they already have heard many times or not having the spirit is willing to administrative
class confidences, it is certain that very few were attending gatherings. They talked with each
other in pairs or in groups of three and four. Candida whispering with P. Melchor, Ms. Eloisa with
his godson P. Gil and Obdulia, D. Joaquin Marcelina and P. Narcissus with Ms Filomena. You can ensure
that only people who actually listened the former acting governor of Tarragona were his brother
and Ms Teodora, that is, those who knew details of their administrative as well as he. Because
Ms Serafina Barrado, although it was still and attentive eye on the
speaker, so vague in offering look, that it was put to see that it
was far from what he said.

What this lady listened, imperceptible tremors of pain and rage, was the rumor of the talk Marcelina
its chaplain. A long time ago D. Joaquin differed significantly to this Miss, his penitent.
These distinctions came to the soul Ms Serafina, who apparently aspired to the monopoly of them.
Given that the chaplain, was the act of being begotten and birth, was in all his workmanship,
it seemed that he was entitled to it. But he did not believe it well, or took pleasure in
shaking with detours and Seriousness unjustified. Not a day passed without the good Lord experienced
a rebuff by his protege. Did she take as such that was not, but the priest, knowing the subject
and zealous affection he professed should show more care to avoid. Now you could see very clearly
that his asides and whispers were intentional: perhaps they had finally punishing him for indirect
defense he had made of P. Gil, whom D. Joaquin hated couple of death.

Ms Marciala more open or more angry, just take his eyes off D. Narciso and Ms Filomena tellers eyes,
restless, as they went from time to time flashes of anger. In centers of the town gossip was said
that Ms P. Marciala was in love Narciso. Although this is not credible, because it is a lady
that all life had been expressed very circumspect and religious, there is no doubt that their
familiarity with the priest could give lead to distorted interpretations among people prone
to think evil of others. Had married and later, when he was over thirty years, with D. José María,
the apothecary of the square. He, who had been all his life a rabid Republican, barely frequented
the church, and met in his back room at night a group of Democrats (Freemasons were called the
pious of the people), through the influence of his pious wife had been slowly changing my mind.
Began to move away from politics and leave the subscription to the Mutiny, then was eliminated
of gathering the most exalted and dangerous subject, then saw him politely alternating with various
priests. Finally, as a mission of Jesuits came to the village, Ms Marciala got one lead to confess.
Since then made a complete and radical change in the life of D. José
María.

The fierce Republican subscriber of the Mutiny, was transformed into a brother of St. Vincent
de Paul, brother of the Sacred Heart. Lighted in the processions, made the guard of the Blessed
with scapular neck, etc., etc. And not only practiced all the religious activities of a fervent
believer, but he gave in and accompanied by clergy receive them in the back rooms, rather than
the wicked who came before, in such a way that his pharmacy came to be after some time the gathering
of traditionalists Peñascosa. Such was the praiseworthy work carried out with remarkable strength
and skill by Ms Marciala. It helped him greatly with their advice on P. Narciso. Perhaps for this
reason his soul was so attached and grateful to her director, who know not contained, and stimulated
was pávulo to bad Peñascosa languages.

It was, as we know, one that contributed to education and the career
of P. Gil; but the drop that occurred in the herd of D. Narciso arrival
of the former, remained loyal to his pastor.

May help you stay in the flight of Obdulia, whom she had, as fame, a jealous rage, and it seems
he was right. Aspired to replace it the eloquent grace of diverting priest, and had almost succeeded.
Unfortunately, stood in the way Ms Filomena, a widow who already know who more modestly and
reserve admired his spiritual director and lavished him in silence and shadow thousand attentions
sensitive, which concluded by making a dent in his heart. Not mean that it ceases to consider and
should serve as Ms Marciala, but he was seen in some time to that part more inclined to Ms Filomena,
though never so designated course as he had felt by Obdulia.

In the gathering of Ms Eloisa stirred thousand sweet sentiments, which, like the shadow the light,
always accompany other bitter. Several young single women, to whom time and disenchantment had become more
reflective, some married women where their husbands were able to extinguish the thirst for the
infinite, and such that another widow in need of comfort, gathered
every night at around half a dozen priests, forming an interesting
group and moving.

This little world, oblivious to the struggles of all politics, science and material interests,
was a delightful oasis in the midst of general corruption customs. The perfect female submission
of those souls to its directors, benevolence and the tenderness with which they strove to lead
them down the path of virtue, lent to socialize a mild, innocent and pious that not only find security
in Secular. There was a joyful interpenetration of the spiritual in the temporal, it was an
image about what must be the reign of God on earth.

The mystical herd was divided, as was natural. Each priest had his daughters confession who obeyed him
and admired him. And they, building, business experts and pastors, character and condition of each
sheep, often stimulated by the successful handling, now their self-flattering, sometimes with
jealousy sometimes mortifying, others with healthy coldness others in a proper compliment. Missing
or not in that society, some exquisite honest recreations. It was not all knitting and crochet
bedspreads, also worshiped to music. Fr Norberto was the organist of the church, and although he knew
little secular music, Some night I played, and when not accompanied
Fr Narciso, who among his many skills had to play the flute in two
or three pavanas and the symphony of Joan of Arc. Also Marcelina could
sing La Stella confidant and prayer to the Virgin.

D. Melchor could do some sleight of hand; D. Peregrin Casanova's seasoned with salt gathering
stories, recited Candida piano admirably various moral fables, and finally, P. Joaquin was
playing, scratching teeth with your fingernails, any piece of music, and imitated the cry of the
cock so perfectly anyone confused him with the biped.

That night there was music.

The mood was a bit oblivious. There was some concern in the party, motivated by the presence
of P. Gil, whom none of his colleagues, if except P. Norberto, showed
sympathy.

The conversation was rolling from one to another subject, all unimportant.

In a moment of silence, D. Juan Casanova, who had his head tilted to one side, no doubt by
the excessive weight of the brain, somewhat discharged, saying with
his usual solemnity

- Eloise, today I found his brother Alvaro in
the Paseo de la Atalaya.

He wore trousers frame.

Ms Eloisa sighed, as long as he played the point of his brother.

- These days have been a little sick. I was told the servant - said sending a shy glance at the
table where he played her husband.

D. Martin and his brother for some time that were not related.

For the trivial reason of furniture of the house that was meant to bring to his own, without
right, broke in a violent way. D. Martin (what else?) Put his hand on his brother's face and
challenged him over this. From then, total separation between them. D. Álvaro living in his huge
house, all alone, and D. Martin in his with his wife. This, from time to time, hidden from Mr.
Martin, was to visit his brother.

- There seems to good health -
said Fr Gil, who did not know why he was interested man.

- Oh! Very
sickly and delicate.

Just taking care a lot can go on living.

Clerics, as always when Montesinos was in the presence of his sister,
kept gloomy silence, with a long face and plastered.

If it were not, would insurance released a statement of outrage and sarcasm against that wicked
one, who was shocked the villa with his views and his conduct.

With great difficulty adhering to the narrow loop family.

There was a gloomy silence, for the ladies, realizing what was happening in the interior of spiritual
directors dared not speak.

Ms Eloisa turned to breathe another sigh and said painful accent,
as if to end in a monologue aloud:

- Too bad you have been perverted
in Madrid!

Alvaro has a good heart ... and they all say he is a man of talent.

Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades. One of them, Father Melchior, is dare say smirk:

- Madam, permit me not to recognize talent who does not admit the
truth of our holy religion.

- At least it was the first in his chair
and went among their teachers for a guy clear.

- And it will, madam,
- said Fr Gil, whom the aggressive twang of his partner was upset
.-- It can have talent and be blinded in any case.

His brother, unfortunately, what is in regard to the most interesting to man. But there is no reason
to deny talent. The heretics have been great, if not so, would certainly not have could give
the appearance of truth to error and deceive many people.

Although it felt wounded to the quick by the indirect reply, Fr Melchor
did not dare answer, and preferred to be distracted eating the anger.

For most who do not confess all Peñascosa clergy felt the superiority of P. Gil, who blamed,
of course, to was the only one among them who had followed the race can of theology. No other
attempt not contradict him for fear of making a bad paper.

The conversation was directed by the other side. Charlose lively construction project of a new
church near the plaza, flown by several neighbors and which opposed with all their might the
priest, fearing to divide the parish. The players were alternatives in their silence and noisy altercation.
Fr Gil remained silent and pensive, impressed with what he had to hear and say. Figure of Montesinos,
who had not seen more than three or four times in his life, and that from a distance, floating
in his mind waking up at Viva curiosity. The claim that Mrs. Eloisa had always been the first among
his classmates, helped to make it bigger, if not more interesting
to your eyes, man.

A desire vague, indefinite and conquer approach was born in his mind. When the arrival of
D. José Maria Osuna, the apothecary and gave the signal for the dissolution of the gathering,
even the thought rolled for his brain for shape.

The night was overcast and gloomy. The sky would drop with obstinacy a fine rain and cold. At
the door of the house the circles were divided: most stayed for the near the square, others went
down the street of the Quadrant.

And on it went separating all until they were alone Fr Gil, Osuna and his daughter, the only
living Field of fainting. Obdulia arranged that the P. Gil's tapase with his umbrella. The hunchback
moved back, glad not to go through the humiliation of having her daughter tapase, for because
of the large difference in height so it was good.

They walked a few moments in silence, listening to the distant roar
of the sea beating against the rocks and the faint sound of rain on
the umbrella.

The girl expected to P. Take out Gil the conversation of his altercation
with Fr Narciso, and indefinitely prolonged attempt silence.

Seeing taciturn and withdrawn, he ventured to say in a trembling voice:

- Are you angry with me, father?

- Why? - Asked the clerk in surprise, suddenly out of his meditation.

-
The dispute I had with D. Narciso.

- Ah!

Yes ..

In fact, I did not like the rebellious attitude that you have placed
in front him.

It is unworthy of a humble and virtuous young as you ...

Obdulia was silent, feeling in the heart of the censorship of his director. Finally he said,
putting red, which no one could see:

- You're right, I have committed a sin and repent ...

After a long pause, he added humbly:

- You can not imagine how much I dislike the look of envy D. Narciso.

-
Envy? - Asked the priest with surprise .-- Who is jealous?

- You,
Father, to you - the young woman said firmly.

- No, my dear, no -
said Fr Gil all bewildered .-- I can not be envied by anyone ... I
a poor clergyman ... a miserable sinner ...

- Well, even so ... I
understand ...

Replace your embarrassment, the priest then said sharply:

-
I beg you not to say those things again, or that thinks ... Forbid
it ... Note you are two priests - added after a pause, his voice softening.

Obdulia

no reply. Muda and heart squeezed by a strange sentence, continued
marching next to the cleric.

He spoke to Osuna without turning

- At the Country are going to feel the air, Mr. Osuna.

- When does not blow in that damn field? - Said the hunchback with bad humor.

And indeed, to engage with it, a violent gust struck them face and
was about to return umbrellas.

The cleric's robe, the petticoat of the girl waving: they had trouble
forward.

Finally reached the great portal of Montesinos.

They wiped his face with his handkerchief and restored the disorder of his clothes. Fr Gil
returned to lead a curious look, searching for the dark door on top
of which always burning oil lamp.

- Goodbye, Mr. Osuna, you rest
- said extending his hand to the hunchback.

Then he had a moment of indecision going to lie to Obdulia, but troubled by the look intense
and ecstatic that she nailed him, took his hat and bowed gravely, saying:

- Good evening, miss.

Again raised the umbrella and quickly saved the distance that separated him from the rectory.
The Obdulia eyes, motionless at the door while his father called, and followed him for some time.

Before
entering the rectory, Father Gil turned and also stood a few moments. But his eyes sought the
door where it had disappeared. Were above once embraced the vast and sombre facade of the
great manor house, seasoned with Hurricane shocks, serious and disdainful slept under the weather.
Contemplola long, carefully. His eyes shone with a mystical fire of joy. It was the look of
the apostle, greedy, tender, lenient. Perhaps the expression should be reflected in the eyes of
San Pedro in view of Rome.

IV

Since that night, Fr Gil did not dream of anything else. Apostolate
fever reddened with so that did not leave empty corner in your brain
to another thought. Within it entablose a silent struggle between
the living and burning desire to enrich your life with the conquest
of a bitter enemy of the Church, and fear repossession, crazy, not
knowing why he inspired. In his ongoing walk around the room it occupied
in the rectory, while with breviary in his hand saying the obligatory
prayers, often stopped at the window the tip of the curtain rose,
and looked timid and anxious at the palace of Montesinos. There was,
stern, impenetrable, hostile as a stronghold built by the impious.
Balconies closed forever. The mystery man who had lived to hate both
the light sun as that of faith. [Footnote: Conn. Coll. Rec. vii. 191, note;
Proc. Mass. Hist. Soc. 1860-62, pp. 64-80, 165-171.] A possible distinction between the two
cases also lay in the fact that the Massachusetts act had received the royal assent.

The history of this litigation is interesting, not only as illustrating the defects in provincial
justice, but as showing the process by which the conception of constitutional limitations became
rooted in the minds of the first generation of lawyers; and in point of fact, they were so
thoroughly impregnated with the theory as to incline to carry it to unwarrantable lengths.
For example, so justly eminent a counsel as James Otis, in his great argument on the Writs
of Assistance in 1761, solemnly maintained the utterly untenable proposition that an act of
Parliament "against the Constitution is void: an act against natural equity is void: and if
an act of Parliament should be made, in the very words of this petition, it would be void."
[Footnote: Quincy's Reports, p. 474.] While so sound a man, otherwise, as John Adams wrote,
in 1776, to Mr. Justice Cushing: "You have my hearty concurrence in telling the jury the nullity
of acts of Parliament.... I am determined to die of that opinion, let the jus gladii say what
it will." [Footnote: Works of J. Adams, ix. 390.]

On looking back at Massachusetts as she was in the year 1700, permeated with the evil theocratic
traditions, without judges, teachers, or books, the mind can hardly fail to be impressed with
the unconquerable energy which produced great jurists from such a soil; and yet in 1725 Jeremiah
Gridley graduated from Harvard, who may fairly be said to have been the progenitor of a famous
race; for long before the Revolution, men like Prat, Otis, and John Adams could well have held
their own before any court of Common Law that ever sat. Such powerful counsel naturally felt
a contempt for the ignorant politicians who for the most part presided over them, which they
took little pains to hide. Ruggles one day had an aged female witness who could find no chair
and complained to him of exhaustion. He told her to go and sit on the bench. His honor, in
some irritation, calling him to account, he replied: "I really thought that place was made
for old women." Hutchinson says of himself: "It was an eyesore to some of the bar to have a
person at the head of the law who had not been bred to it." But he explains with perfect simplicity
how his occupation as chief justice "engaged his attention, and he applied his intervals to
reading the law." [Footnote: Diary and Letters of Thomas Hutchinson, p. 66.]

The British supremacy closed with the evacuation of Boston, and the colony then became an independent
state; yet in that singularly homogeneous community, which had always been taught to regard
their royal patents as the bulwark of their liberties, no one seems to have seriously thought
it possible to dispense with a written instrument to serve as the basis of the social organization.
Accordingly, in 1779, the legislature called a convention to draft a Constitution; and it was
the good fortune of the lawyers, who were chosen as delegates, to have an opportunity, not
only to correct those abuses from which the administration of justice had so long suffered,
but to carry into practical operation their favorite theory, of the limitation of legislative
power by the intervention of the courts. The course pursued was precisely what might have been
predicted of the representatives of a progressive yet sagacious people. Taking the old charter
as the foundation whereon to build, they made only such alterations as their past experience
had shown them to be necessary; they adopted no fanciful schemes, nor did they lightly depart
from a system with which they were acquainted; and their almost servile fidelity to their precedent,
wherever it could be folio wed, is shown by the following extracts relating to the legislative
and executive departments.

CHARTER.

CONSTITUTION.

CHARTER.

The governour of our said province for the time being shall have authority from time to time
at his discretion to assemble and call together the councillors or assistants of our said province
for the time being and that the said governour with the said assistants or councillors or seaven
of them at the least shall and may from time to time hold and keep a councill for the ordering
and directing the affaires of our said province.

CONSTITUTION.

The governour shall have authority, from time to time at his discretion, to assemble and call
together the councillors of this commonwealth for the time being; and the governour, with the
said councillors, or five of them at least, shall, and may, from time to time, hold and keep
a council, for the ordering and directing the affairs of the commonwealth, agreeably to the
constitution and the laws of the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

The clause concerning the council is curious as an instance of the survival of an antiquated
form. In the province the body had a use, for it was a regular upper chamber; but when, in
1779, a senate was added, it became an anomalous and meaningless third house; yet it is still
regularly elected, though its inutility is obvious. So long ago as 1814 John Adams had become
very tired of it; he then wrote: "This constitution, which existed in my handwriting, made
the governor annually elective, gave him the executive power, shackled with a council, that
I now wish was annihilated." [Footnote: Works of J. Adams, vi. 465.]

On the other hand, the changes made are even more interesting, as an example of the evolution
of institutions. The antique document was simplified by an orderly arrangement and division
into sections; the obsolete jargon of incorporation was eliminated, which had come down from
the mediaeval guilds; in the dispute with England the want of a bill of rights had been severely
felt, so one was prefixed; and then the convention, probably out of regard to symmetry, blotted
their otherwise admirable work by creating an unnecessary senate. 

The anxious tone of amazement with which he made that question seemed
sincere.

- Come, come!

Do you still make me lose more time? Does it hurt to see you lost? Do not you know that woman you
loved? Do not you realize that the responsibility such ruin moral burden on you alone? "Pretend
you wonder after he lied? You lied when he acknowledged to be the lover of his fellow, but this
lie, so least, was almost severed by the hope of saving her, but why do you hide feelings he
professed to another miserable lately? ...

The prince trembled Natzichet had told the truth.

- And were you going to talk about the sudden resurrection of His love to those who loved him an
accomplice of rebellion, jealousy and bigotry at the same time they woke up in it, and encourages
against those unhappy! ... Now you are shocked, shakes you, after you have made two victims? ...
And why you have hidden all this? Would not you did, then, for generosity towards the defendant,
but by an entirely different feeling: fear that if I had known momentum is how you wake up in
the late passion, could and should have suspected more informed you?

Then the Prince, raising his head resolutely staring at the eyes of the judge, replied a hollow
voice:

- Do not tell you why I have not said.

You know the truth, why do not you let me free? What more do you want?

VIII

CHARTER

When newspapers published the news that closed the investigation, it was of chords confessions of
Zakunine Natzichet and the Countess d'Arda had been killed the nihilist,
and that the defendant Deferio charge to the jury trial, curiosity
the public which had grown enormously in recent days, finally quieted.

The denying suicide, triumphed to see confirmation of the arguments that had opposed the incredible
hypothesis: but on the other side was not very big disappointment, because although the secrecy
of judicial investigations, it was known that Alejandra Natzichet, killing the Countess, had
only to obey the desire, almost to the intimation of his desperate victim.

This does not mitigate the murder trial that was the object. Only partly believed the reason argued
for it, that the unfortunate had died only to return Italian fellow
and restore freedom to the game, it seemed credible to those who had
high idea of ​​sectarian zeal, but most acknowledged that it had joined
the jealousy of loving women to determine the crime.

And if the inspired ferocity of the rebel terror, spared no jealousy of the woman, even the most
lenient for the crimes of love denied the nihilistic passion of every good quality, the deemed
cold, hard, savage.

And while the nihilistic thus appeared in a sad light, Zakunine detractors, not retract at
all, they recognized the innocence of it. They could not fully repent of their trials, they
saw that he was the source of all evil, and said they could only relevársele responsibility
of the crime. The more lenient he credited his attempts to save the murderer, but the most severe,
however, still accused him that: the risk of being condemned with
her trying to save her, he is not confirmed it, the more evident that
both were liable to the same penalty? The feeling was unanimous reason,
finally, Roberto candle plant, which from all appearances had insisted
believe in the offense, and getting finally avenge his beloved.

When freed from the incubus of the ecclesiastical oligarchy the range of intellectual activity
expanded, and in 1780 Massachusetts may be said, without exaggeration, to have led the liberal
movement of the world; for not only had she won almost in perfection the three chief prizes
of modern civilization, liberty of speech, toleration, and equality before the law; but she
had succeeded in formulating those constitutional doctrines by which, during the nineteenth
century, popular self-government has reached the highest efficiency it has ever yet attained.

A single example, however, must suffice to show what the rise of the class of lawyers had done
for individual security and liberty in that comparatively short interval of ninety years.

Theocratic justice has been described; the trials of Wheelwright, and of Anne Hutchinson, of
Childe, of Holmes, and of Christison have been related; and also the horrors perpetrated before
that ghastly tribunal of untrained bigots, which condemned the miserable witches undefended
and unheard. [Footnote: In England, throughout the eighteenth century, counsel were allowed
to speak in criminal trials, in cases of treason and misdemeanor only. Nor is the conduct of
Massachusetts in regard to witches peculiar. Parallel atrocities might probably be adduced
from the history of every European nation, even though the procedure of the courts were more
regular than was that of the Commission of Phips. The relation of the priest to the sorcerer
is a most interesting phenomenon of social development; but it would require a treatise by
itself.] For the honor of our Common wealth let the tale be told of a state prosecution after
her bar was formed.

In 1768 the British Ministry saw fit to occupy Boston with a couple of regiments, a force large
enough to irritate, but too small to overawe, the town. From the outset bad feeling prevailed
between the citizens and the soldiers, but as the time went on the exasperation increased,
and early in 1770 that intense passion began to glow which precedes the outbreak of civil war.
Yet though there were daily brawls, no blood was shed until the night of the 5th of March,
when a rabble gathered about the sentry at the custom-house in State Street. He became frightened
and called for help, Captain Preston turned out the guard, the mob pelted them, and they fired
on the people without warning. A terrific outbreak was averted by a species of miracle, but
the troops had to be withdrawn, and Preston and his men were surrendered and indicted for murder.

John Adams, who was a liberal, heart and soul, had just come into leading practice. His young
friend Josiah Quincy was even more deeply pledged to the popular cause. On the morning after
the massacre, Preston, doubtless at Hutchinson's suggestion, sent Adams a guinea as a retaining
fee, which, though it seemed his utter ruin to accept, he did not dream of refusing. What Quincy
went through may be guessed from his correspondence with his father.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRAINTREE, March 22, 1770.

MY DEAR SON, I am under great affliction at hearing the bitterest reproaches uttered against
you, for having become an advocate for those criminals who are charged with the murder of their
fellow-citizens. Good God! Is it possible? I will not believe it.

Just before I returned home from Boston, I knew, indeed, that on the day those criminals were
committed to prison, a sergeant had inquired for you at your brother's house; but I had no
apprehension that it was possible an application would be made to you to undertake their defence.
Since then I have been told that you have actually engaged for Captain Preston; and I have
heard the severest reflections made upon the occasion, by men who had just before manifested
the highest esteem for you, as one destined to be a saviour of your country. I must own to
you, it has filled the bosom of your aged and infirm parent with anxiety and distress, lest
it should not only prove true, but destructive of your reputation and interest; and I repeat,
I will not believe it, unless it be confirmed by your own mouth, or under your own hand.

Your anxious and distressed parent,

JOSIAH QUINCY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOSTON, March 26, 1770.

HONOURED SIR, I have little leisure, and less inclination, either to know or to take notice
of those ignorant slanderers who have dared to utter their "bitter reproaches" in your hearing
against me, for having become an advocate for criminals charged with murder.... Before pouring
their reproaches into the ear of the aged and infirm, if they had been friends, they would
have surely spared a little reflection on the nature of an attorney's oath and duty....

Let such be told, sir, that these criminals, charged with murder, are not yet legally proved
guilty, and therefore, however criminal, are entitled, by the laws of God and man, to all legal
counsel and aid; that my duty as a man obliged me to undertake; that my duty as a lawyer strengthened
the obligation.... This and much more might be told with great truth; and I dare affirm that
you and this whole people will one day rejoice that I became an advocate for the aforesaid
"criminals," charged with the murder of our fellow-citizens. Come with me - he replied sharply.

And after you close and lock the door carefully, he walked forward. Do not fail to surprise the
air of authority to excuse the old home, and what little they had the will his master to receive
or not receive visits. After crossing a large courtyard, wet, poorly paved, which grew all
over the grass, surrounded by rough stone columns stained moss, rose by a rough stone staircase
and also the steps spent by the use. Saved on the main floor wide open corridor, with wooden
floors, so deteriorated that it was necessary to be careful not to put his foot through a hole.
For all hand there is a strange abandonment, the walls dirty, chipped, ground with a finger
of dust, cracked ceilings; there seemed an inhabited house, but an ancient abbey lonely. The great
manor house of Montesinos was rotting, crumbling, no owner it tried to reform the child, without
even notice it. On the second floor raised led him through several rooms at the dilapidated and
gloomy, finally opened a glass door with dirty curtains, after taking a look on the inside, said:

- He is not here. There will be uploaded to the library.

Return to retrace his steps. They found a small door in the corridor close, and she came followed
by the priest's servant, up a spiral staircase darker and dirtier even as the rest of the house.
When they went into the half, Fr Gil heard on high and hacking squeeze dry again the heart of
fear. The library was one of the two square towers that house was
on the side.

There was a small anteroom without any furniture, with unpainted
wooden door, trays in use, the old push, saying:

- Álvaro Here Mr.
excuses that wants to talk.

The shock that he had in his body did not stop surprising the weird confidence servant. A man
so rich, so noble, so mysterious, familiarly by a servant!

The library was in hand with the rest of the house in the shabby and dirty. It was a great square
tile, vaulted ceiling, the walls were covered with patches of rough shelf books. They also went
piled on the floor without any order or curiosity. The pasta was bound with old, had also very
modern rustic, but all alike were victims of neglect of the owner and the ferocity of the dust.
Two windows leaded glass, no curtains, illuminated the room. A modern stove whose pipe supported
by wires, broken glass left by the warming. Impaired by a table,
covered by a rubber ink spattered, sat in an armchair old cow a man
whose appearance and attire were well within the decor of the room.

As in Western Europe church and state alike rested upon the customs of the Middle Ages, a change
so fundamental must have wrought the overthrow, not only of the vastest vested interests, but
of the profoundest religious prejudices, consequently, it could not have been accomplished
peaceably; and in point of fact the conservatives were routed in two terrific outbreaks, whereof
the second was the sequence of the first, though following it after a considerable interval
of time. By the wars of the Reformation freedom of thought was gained; by the revolutions of
the eighteenth century, which swept away the incubus of feudalism, liberty of action was won;
and as Massachusetts had been colonized by the radicals of the first insurrection, it was not
unnatural that their children should have led the second. So much may be readily conceded,
and yet the inherited tendency toward liberalism alone would have been insufficient to have
inspired the peculiar unanimity of sentiment which animated her people in their resistance
to Great Britain, and which perhaps was stronger among her clergy, whose instincts regarding
domestic affairs were intensely conservative, than among any other portion of her population.
The reasons for this phenomenon are worthy of investigation, for they are not only interesting
in themselves, but they furnish an admirable illustration of the irresistible action of antecedent
and external causes on the human mind.

Under the Puritan Commonwealth the church gave distinction and power, and therefore monopolized
the ability which sought professional life; but under the provincial government new careers
were opened, and intellectual activity began to flow in broader channels. John Adams illustrates
the effect produced by the changed environment; when only twenty he made this suggestive entry
in his Diary: "The following questions may be answered some time or other, namely,--Where do
we find a precept in the Gospel requiring Ecclesiastical Synods? Convocations? Councils? Decrees?
Creeds? Confessions? Oaths? Subscriptions? and whole cart-loads of other trumpery that we find
religion encumbered with in these days?" [Footnote: Works of J. Adams, ii. 5.]

Such men became lawyers, doctors, or merchants; theology ceased to occupy their minds; and
gradually the secular thought of New England grew to be coincident with that of the other colonies.

Throughout America the institutions favored individuality. No privileged class existed among
the whites. In the early days, the intimacy of their relationships excused, if not legitimized those loans
later on, ended the love and ill-treatment started, was not found in a position to meet their commitments.
And meanwhile, their needs have become more urgent. The Kronstadt latest conspiracy had cost
him so much that after he had not known what to do: some letters found in Zurich, his answers
to others, showing which had led to various parts insisting urgently to help you.

This reading Ferpierre inspired a serious question: Would they have killed and nihilistic Zakunine
the Countess to grab your money? ...

The suspicion was not damning without examination. In the house of the dead had been found many
values, but the Countess was so rich, that it might have been in possession of the last day a
higher amount. If the theft was the motive for the crime, the two Russians could, exprofeso,
failing stole all the money, but in this case was difficult to explain how loud as they had
killed his victim and the sharp pain Zakunine had established, or could say how and where
they had hidden the stolen sums, in the few moments spent between shooting and the arrival of
the servants. Should we consider any of them as an accomplice? Or rather, the Russians hoped to
subtract the money after having been led to believe in suicide no
charge providing the candle plant?

Ferpierre agreed to ask Milan, counter casa d'Arda, if the values ​​found in the village Cyclamens
were exactly those who should be there, and at the same time questioning the servants of the town
to find out if any of them could, in the confusion of the first now, having seen the murderers
take the sums to be lacking. But even if the judge believe that anything was possible in the world,
would not admit that evil Zakunine out to the point killed for stealing. The assumption could,
of course had to be done was another: Zakunine returned to the side of the Countess, not because
they felt love for her, but by the need the help they could give spontaneously. Extremely rich, accustomed
to not spend on themselves same or a quarter of their income, could get bail immediately to
her former lover. So the Prince went to see her from time to time and was more kind to her.
Love, the passion that does not suffer delays or departures, which
amused the other hand, did live in Zurich, where he lived the Natzichet.

Was

it credible that this man, whom the legend attached so beloved as Don Juan, had remained in
the company of the student, the community of doctrines and purposes intimate relationships arise?
And lacking evidence to support this suspicion. The same The fellow from Russia, England also
turned against the Prince, reproaching that had left. "The presence here is necessary," he wrote
London, "four months ago to expect: what prevents you from coming? Good time for missing you at your
word! ... Or some new adventure is retained for further ?...»

- He had the letter which he wrote a notice of the affair with the young fugitive?

Among the letters of the Natzichet the judge did not find any that you serve. All concerned to studies
of the nihilistic, had written on many social issues discussed, drafts of articles for the American
magazine The Rebel, and Spanish fact sheets and Dutch which the author was a correspondent.
For more than their dislike for the young did not give the magistrate was forced to admit that
it had a culture outside ordinary: writing correctly in Spanish, English and German newspapers
sent bibliographies in which he reported all kinds of scientific and philosophical. The information
gathered from the Zurich police were, moreover, pro-nihilist. Three years earlier he had left Russia
alone, without resources, having been deported his father and brother to Siberia for revolutionary
acts. In Zurich had begun to study medicine, living by his work, translations of scientific works
made on behalf of German and French publishers. I was in relations with all political refugees,
but had not taken active part in the conspiracy: on the contrary, both orally and in writing
disapproved of continuous and useless sacrifice of lives. He bowed to the moral propaganda, the
preparation of conscience, but ardent and virile nature, had not hesitated down to the action
if it had been necessary.

And while its relations with the Prince nothing is said of precise, the suspicion of being his
mistress was confirmed. In love with her, her constant companion in Zurich, would not Zakunine impatient
agitators abandoned both by the action of love unnerving as for persuasion that directly bear
on it the girl? Would not it would have been proposed to disappointed that the young man, show
the folly of unnecessary carnage?

These assumptions seem plausible to Ferpierre. And the accusation of candle plant continued
to appear unfounded. If the youth loved the nihilistic, his relations with the Countess was not
so an obstacle that would encourage him to kill it. Could this rebel, to whom the law enforcement
was worthless, feeling bound by an entirely moral scruples? And there was, in fact, sometimes
left his mistress from running in search of new pleasures? What prevented him from making same,
with greater freedom than the first time? True, he had returned to the side of the Countess and was
treated with the greatest consideration, but if this should prove that he was sorry their evil
dealings before, the same regret, the presence of these unscrupulous in his mind contradicting
the hypothesis of murder could hardly wish for death of a being,
who regretted having caused pain.

If the Prince had been married to the deceased, and, tired of it, I wanted to get marriage to
the nihilistic nihilistic and wanted to marry him, he could rebuild rationally drama in another
way, feigning repentance, the husband returned to the side his wife, persuaded his conversion,
persuading others to dispel any suspicion and then, alone or with the complicity of his mistress,
the killed to be free. But Zakunine was not inextricably linked to the Countess, or could not
believe he wanted to marry her young fellow, had to leave all these assumptions. The repentance
of that man was sincere, or rather credible because he had a cause:
the need for money.

Beyond that, no reason, however subtle it was, could explain it.

In his long and varied experience, Ferpierre had studied carefully the passions human, and knew
that faithless lovers often feel overwhelmed at the time of Treason, by a movement of compassion
for the person who betray. Aware of evil they do lessen their guilt by agreeing to that person
a pity that seem to show His goodness of heart, but in fact it is a selfish pleasure, and, therefore,
offends more the betrayed. The Prince, who had forgotten and even despised by running her friend
after pleasure, might have been inclined to pay for this presumptuous compassion to better enjoy their
own happiness, no doubt had gone to watch the spectacle of misery
that he had caused, to comfort the victim hypocritically.

If this was the correct explanation of the feelings of Zakunine what was the effect her action
had occurred in the mind of the Countess? "Loving and loved another man, could have been jealous
of the nihilistic, and the powerlessness of the jealous death have occurred? That could not believe.
By contrast, the certainty that the Prince belonged to another, should having served in a free way to
believe, despite the seriousness of the commitment had contracted with his conscience: it was unlikely
to have said that more would excuse if picked up his word. But against this arrangement were all
his scruples, and the hypothesis Suicide seemed quite natural if the unfortunate had ignored the
compassion of Prince was false. To believe sincere, knowing that the Prince had a new love,
must have seen increase the difficulty to correspond to the expectations of candle plant. But actually
know Prince's new love? Or better, can you really loved Prince to the nihilist? Ferpierre understood
that above all should make sure this view, certainly plausible, but
not yet tested.

While the judge was heading to jail Eveche, where the defendants were arrested, was thinking
about how to start the interrogation of the young.

The cavalier attitude taken by it the day of the disaster, had inspired the desire and need
to be measured almost with that high spirit, to break him and confuse him.

While the guards were searching for the accused to conduct it before the magistrate, the director
of the prison referred to it that the attitude of the young woman had been during days of confinement,
a person who is not only quiet, but that defies suspicion. He had complained of the cell and
food, had asked to be allowed to read and write, and had actually
written a study on Swiss emigration, full of figures and statistical
data.

When did it come into the office of director, sat at a Ferpierre sign, and holding the questioning
look of it, folded his arms.

- It seems that finally has awakened to the memory you! - Began the
judge .-- And if facts and figures you provided you in this letter
are accurate, I see that your memory is also excellent!

Therefore, I would expect not to fail with respect to what for now
we are more useful to know.

How long have you known the Prince Alexius Petrovich?

- Many years.

-
"From Russia?

- Yes.

- How do you know Him?

- He was a friend of
my brothers.

- Which of course were his fellow?

... After you left your country Where did you find?

- Here, in Lausanne.

-
Were you alone?

- No.

- With the Countess?

- With her.

- Did you
go to look for?

How do you see?

- He knew my arrival, and was himself for me.

- For what purpose?

To have news from Russia?

Why drag you to their plots?

... You answer!

After a moment of silence, she replied:

- To help.

- How?

- I was alone, without resources, in unfamiliar country.

He came to offer their support.

- Did he give you money?

- I was offered, but I refused.

- So, how you helped?

- I recommended to several people familiar over and got me lessons
in Russian, gave me the occasion to write in newspapers and magazines.

-
How long were they together?

- One day.

- Have you been, or is he?

-
Yo.

- Do you went to Zurich?

... Do you write?

... And when they returned to see?

- One year later, in Lugano.

- Were you alone?

- Yes.

- Do you
know why?

Did you understand that I no longer loved the Countess?

- I did
not bother about such things.

- Why did you go to Lugano?

What was he doing there?

The young woman replied.

- Will not you say?

- I can not.

- Helps you match?

Again was speechless.

- How long were you in Lugano?

- Three days.

-
What next?

- I returned to Zurich.

- When he left?

- In April.

-
To do what?

As the young continue silent, Ferpierre continued slowly

- Have not
you now want to answer?

... I understand that reservation.

You can not or should not reveal the secrets of their association.

And his silence would you mean Prince Zurich came expressly to work in advertising, to conspire,
for political reasons final. But I warn you before you believe it is necessary to clarify some points
obscure. During the time when, according to you, the Prince was in Zurich for political reasons wrote
to him from Russia, England, everywhere, letters that called him, accused him to neglect the cause,
he was accused of laxity and almost infamy. We have a portion of those letters are very clear about
it. How do you explain these contradictions?

The girl shook her head without uttering a syllable.

- You persist in refusing to answer? ... And how do you explain that when Zakunine out Zurich
and come here to Ouchy, you had not previously searched, run to him, again Sometimes in a house
that was not his, and he found it right there on the day of the disaster? "Nor did you answer now?
Well then, I'll tell you something else: among these letters in which almost is accused of treason,
is a friend to a conspiracy to not fall again a weakness that seems to be common: that of being
seduced by women, to devote up too much of his time, gallantry ... That friend who writes as
if I already knew that in reality a new adventure with another woman distracts compliance his
duty to his fellow ... Why do you avoid my eyes now? If I ask who is this woman, what would
you answer me?

Russia responded firmly, fixing his eyes on the judge.

- It's me.

- Ah!

Do you confess? - Ferpierre said .-- The other day my suspicions
offended you!

... Well!

Now tell me when was this change in relations between you?

- When
he came to Zurich.

- Did you specifically?

- No.

- Why then?

-
For political reasons.

- Explain how you made this change in relationships.

In two years there had been you more than twice.

Is said to you in either a word of love?

- None.

- Do you?

- I loved from the first day I came to my rescue.

As much as the girl tried to control himself, his voice betrayed a
secret embarrassment.

- So you were the first to speak?

- No.

-
Was it him who said, well, suddenly, after not having thought of you
during two years?

- He stayed several months in Zurich and we see
every day.

- You did not know that, after leaving the Countess, came
precisely from Zurich for her?

- No.

- How is it possible?

A moment ago you told me also to ask if he knew the Zakunine relations
with Italy, which you did not deal with those things.

If you loved you really how you felt no burning desire to see him free?

- I knew I was free.

- Do you mean that his commitment to the Countess
was not valid for him?

- I mean you no longer loved her.

- But do
not you know that she did love him?

- Lately, I loved him not.

-
Then why did you come back to your side?

- They had common interests.

-
Do you call the common interests of those loans that he is the debtor
... But if she not love her and could not be jealous of you!

- No.

-
So why death would have occurred?

- Do not know.

Because of his scruples, probably.

- "Because I wanted another and could not be yours?

- Do not know. Maybe. Suicide, although it seems well thought-out,
is always a momentary impulse or unplanned.

Just a matter of pain.

She had many.

- Explain you very well!

... Did the Countess Prince loved another?

- Not really.

- Have
you ever talked to you about that?

- Never.

- Now let's examine
the Prince.

The young man left, and the judge ordered the release introduced Zakunine.

His

attitude in the prison was completely different from that observed
for alleged accomplice.

Nothing had asked for himself, no food, special, no books, no paper,
nothing had complained, had hardly spoken a word that the guards had
passed time lying in bed motionless, as if asleep.

In its general appearance, in their dark circles deep, was visible
the work that was done inside, but what did it mortified?

"The injustice of the accusation or the remorse of crime? When Ferpierre Asked if he persisted
in his statements, had nothing to add to justified replied in a choked voice:

- No.

- The other day you recognize your faults, confessed that he had responded
to the affection he professed the Countess.



REVEREND AND HONOURED SIR, The occasion of my now giving you the trouble of these few lines
is to me, and I presume to many others, melancholy enough. You have perhaps heard before now,
or will hear before these come to hand, (I suppose) of the revolt of several persons of figure
among us unto the Church of England. There's the Rev. Mr. Cutler, rector of our college, and
Mr. Daniel Brown, the tutor thereof. There are also of ordained ministers, pastors of several
churches among us, the Rev. Messieurs following, viz. John Hart of East Guilford, Samuel Whittlesey
of Wallingford, Jared Eliot of Kennelworth, ... Samuel Johnson of West-Haven, and James Wetmore
of North-Haven. They are the most of them reputed men of considerable learning, and all of
them of a virtuous and blameless conversation. I apprehend the axe is hereby laid to the root
of our civil and sacred enjoyments; and a doleful gap opened for trouble and confusion in our
churches.... It is a very dark day with us; and we need pity, prayers and counsel. [Footnote:
Rev. Joseph Webb to Dr. C. Mather. Mass. Hist. Coll. second series, ii. 131.]

       *       *       *       *       *

From the tone in which these tidings were received it is plain that the charity and humility
of the golden age of Massachusetts were not yet altogether extinct among her ecclesiastics.
The ministers published their "sentiments" in a document beginning as follows:--

"These new Episcopalians have declared their desire to introduce an usurpation and a superstition
into the church of God, clearly condemned in the sacred Scriptures, which our loyalty and chastity
to our Saviour, obliges us to keep close unto; and a tyranny, from which the whole church,
which desires to be reformed, has groaned that it may be delivered.... The scandalous conjunction
of these unhappy men with the Papists is, perhaps, more than what they have themselves duly
considered." [Footnote: The Sentiments of the Several Ministers in Boston. Mass. Hist. Coll.
second series, ii. 133.] In "A Faithful Relation" of what had happened it was observed: "It
has caused some indignation in them," (the people) "to see the vile indignity cast by these
cudweeds upon those excellent servants of God, who were the leaders of the flock that followed
our Saviour into this wilderness: and upon the ministry of them, and their successours, in
which there has been seen for more than forescore years together, the power and blessing of
God for the salvation of many thousands in the successive generations; with a success beyond
what any of them which set such an high value on the Episcopal ordination could ever boast
of!... It is a sensible addition, unto their horrour, to see the horrid character of more than
one or two, who have got themselves qualified with Episcopal ordination, ... and come over
as missionaries, perhaps to serve scarce twenty families of such people, in a town of several
hundred families of Christians, better instructed than the very missionaries: to think, that
they must have no other ministers, but such as are ordained, and ordered by them, who have
sent over such tippling sots unto them: instead of those pious and painful and faithful instructors
which they are now blessed withal!" [Footnote: "A Faithful Relation of a Late Occurrence."
Mass. Hist. Coll. second series, ii. 138, 139.]

Only three of the converts had the fortitude to withstand the pressure to which they were exposed:
Cutler, Johnson, and Brown went to England for ordination; there Brown died of small-pox, but
Cutler returned to Boston as a missionary, and as he, too, possessed a certain clerical aptitude
for forcible expression, it is fitting he should relate his own experiences:--

"I find that, in spite of malice and the basest arts our godly enemies can easily stoop to,
that the interest of the church grows and penetrates into the very heart of this country....
This great town swarms with them "(churchmen)," and we are so confident of our power and interest
that, out of four Parliament-men which this town sends to our General Assembly, the church
intends to put up for two, though I am not very sanguine about our success in it.... My church
grows faster than I expected, and, while it doth so, I will not be mortified by all the lies
and affronts they pelt me with. My greatest difficulty ariseth from another quarter, and is
owing to the covetous and malicious spirit of a clergyman in this town, who, in lying and villany,
is a perfect overmatch for any dissenter that I know; and, after all the odium that he contracted
heretofore among them, is fully reconciled and endeared to them by his falsehood to the church."
[Footnote: Dr. Timothy Cutler to Dr. Zachary Grey, April 2, 1725, Perry's Collection, iii. 663.]

Time did not tend to pacify the feud. There was no bishop in America, and candidates had to
be sent to England for ordination; nor without such an official was it found possible to enforce
due discipline; hence the anxiety of Dr. Johnson, and, indeed, of all the Episcopalian clergy,
to have one appointed for the colonies was not unreasonable. Nevertheless, the opposition they
met with was acrimonious in the extreme, so much so as to make them hostile to the charters
themselves, which they thought sheltered their adversaries.

"The king, by his instructions to our governor, demands a salary; and if he punishes our obstinacy
by vacating our charter, I shall think it an eminent blessing of his illustrious reign." [Footnote:
Dr. Cutler to Dr. Grey, April 20, 1731. Perry's Coll. iii.]

Whitefield came in 1740, and the tumult of the great revival roused fresh animosities.

"When Mr. Whitefield first arrived here the whole town was alarmed.... The conventicles were
crowded; but he chose rather our Common, where multitudes might see him in all his awful postures;
besides that, in one crowded conventicle, before he came in, six were killed in a fright. The
fellow treated the most venerable with an air of superiority. But he forever lashed and anathematized
the Church of England; and that was enough.

"After him came one Tennent, a monster! impudent and noisy, and told them all they were damn'd,
damn'd, damn'd! This charmed them, and in the most dreadful winter that i ever saw, people
wallowed in the snow night and day for the benefit of his beastly brayings; and many ended
their days under these fatigues. Both of them carried more money out of these parts than the
poor could be thankful for." [Footnote: Dr. Cutler to Dr. Grey, Sept. 24, 1743. Perry's Coll.
iii. 676.]

The excitement was followed by its natural reaction conversions became numerous, and the unevangelical
temper this bred between the rival clergymen is painfully apparent in a correspondence wherein
Dr. Johnson became involved. Mr. Gold, the Congregationalist minister of Stratford, whom he
called a dissenter, had said of him "that he was a thief, and robber of churches, and had no
business in the place; that his church doors stood open to all mischief and wickedness, and
other words of like import." He therefore wrote to defend himself: "As to my having no business
here, I will only say that to me it appears most evident that I have as much business here
at least as you have,--being appointed by a society in England incorporated by royal charter
to provide ministers for the church people in America; nor does his majesty allow of any establishment
here, exclusive of the church, much less of anything that should preclude the society he has
incorporated from providing and sending ministers to the church people in these countries."
[Footnote: Life of Dr. Samuel Johnson, p. 108.] To which Mr. Gold replied:--

       *       *       *       *       *

As for the pleas which you make for Col. Lewis, and others that have broke away disorderly
from our church, I think there's neither weight nor truth in them; nor do I believe such poor
shifts will stand them nor you in any stead in the awful day of account; and as for your saying
that as bad as you are yet you lie open to conviction,--for my part I find no reason to think
you do, seeing you are so free and full in denying plain matters of fact.... I don't think
it worth my while to say anything further in the affair, and as you began the controversy against
rule or justice, so I hope modesty will induce you to desist; and do assure you that if you
see cause to make any more replies, my purpose is, without reading of them, to put them under
the pot among my other thorns and there let one flame quench the matter.... HEZ. GOLD.

STRATFORD, July 21, 1741. [Footnote: Life of Dr. Samuel Johnson, p. 111.]

       *       *       *       *       *

And so by an obvious sequence of cause and effect it came to pass that the clergy were early
ripe for rebellion, and only awaited their opportunity. Nor could it have been otherwise. An
autocratic priesthood had seen their order stripped of its privileges one by one, until nothing
remained but their moral empire over their parishioners, and then at last not only did an association
of rival ecclesiastics send over emissaries to steal away their people, but they proposed to
establish a bishop in the land. The thought was wormwood. He would be rich, he would live in
a palace, he would be supported by the patronage and pomp of the royal governors; the imposing
ceremonial would become fashionable; and in imagination they already saw themselves reduced
to the humble position of dissenters in their own kingdom. Jonathan Mayhew was called a heretic
by his more conservative brethren, but he was one of the ablest and the most acrid of the Boston
ministers. He took little pains to disguise his feelings, and so early as 1750 he preached
a sermon, which was once famous, wherein he told his hearers that it was their duty to oppose
the encroachment of the British prelates, if necessary, by force.

"Suppose, then, it was allowed, in general, that the clergy were a useful order of men; that
they ought to be esteemed very highly in love for their work's sake, and to be decently supported
by those they serve, 'the laborer being worthy of his reward.' Suppose, further, that a number
of reverend and right reverend drones, who worked not; who preached, perhaps, but once a year,
and then not the gospel of Jesus Christ, but the divine right of tithes, the dignity of their
office as ambassadors of Christ, ... suppose such men as these, spending their lives in effeminacy,
luxury, and idleness; ... suppose this should be the case, ... would not everybody be astonished
at such insolence, injustice, and impiety?" [Footnote: "Discourse concerning Unlimited Submission,"
Jonathan Mayhew.  Thornton's American Pulpit, pp. 71, 72.] "Civil tyranny is usually small
in its beginning, like 'the drop of a bucket,' till at length, like a mighty torrent... it
bears down all before it.... Thus it is as to ecclesiastical tyranny also--the most cruel,
intolerable, and impious of any. From small beginnings, 'it exalts itself above all that is
called God and that is worshipped.' People have no security against being unmercifully priest-
ridden but by keeping all imperious bishops, and other clergymen who love to 'lord it over
God's heritage,' from getting their foot into the stirrup at all.... For which reason it becomes
every friend to truth and human kind, every lover of God and the Christian religion, to bear
a part in opposing this hateful monster." [Footnote:  Preface to "A Discourse concerning Unlimited
Submission," Jonathan Mayhew. Thornton's Amer. Pulpit, pp. 50, 51.]

Between these envenomed priests peace was impossible; each year brought with it some new aggression
which added fuel to the flame. In 1763, Mr. Apthorp, missionary at Cambridge, published a pamphlet,
in answer, as he explained, to "some anonymous libels which appeared in our newspapers ...
grossly reflecting on the society & their missionaries, & in particular on the mission at Cambridge."
[Footnote: East Apthorp to the Secretary, June 25, 1763. Perry's Coll. iii. 500.]

By this time the passions of the Congregationalist divines had reached a point when words seemed
hardly adequate to give them expression. The Rev. Ezra Stiles wrote to Dr. Mayhew in these terms:--

"Shall we be hushed into silence, by those whose tender mercies are cruelty; and who, notwithstanding
their pretence of moderation, wish the subversion of our churches, and are combined, in united,
steady and vigorous effort, by all the arts of subtlety and intreague, for our ruin?" [Footnote:
Dr. Ezra Stiles to Dr. Mayhew, 1763. Life of Mayhew, p. 246.]

Mr. Stiles need have felt no anxiety, for, according to Mr. Apthorp, "this occasion was greedily
seized, ... by a dissenting minister of Boston, a man of a singular character, of good abilities,
but of a turbulent & contentious disposition, at variance, not only with the Church of England,
but in the essential doctrines of religion, with most of his own party." [Footnote: East Apthorp
to the Secretary. Perry's Coll. iii. 500.] He alluded to a tract written by Dr. Mayhew in answer
to his pamphlet, in which he reproduced the charge made by Mr. Stiles: "The society have long
had a formal design to dissolve and root out all our New-England churches; or, in other words,
to reduce them all to the Episcopal form." [Footnote: Observations on the Charter, etc. of
the Society, p. 107.] And withal he clothed his thoughts in language which angered Mr. Caner:--

"A few days after, Mr. Apthorpe published the enclosed pamphlet, in vindication of the institution
and conduct of the society, which occasioned the ungenteel reflections which your grace will
find in Dr. Mayhew's pamphlet, in which, not content with the personal abuse of Mr. Apthorpe,
he has insulted the missions in general, the society, the Church of England, in short, the
whole rational establishment, in so dirty a manner, that it seems to be below the character
of a gentleman to enter into controversy with him. In most of his sermons, of which he published
a great number, he introduces some malicious invectives against the society or the Church of
England, and if at any time the most candid and gentle remarks are made upon such abuse, he
breaks forth into such bitter and scurrilous personal reflections, that in truth no one cares
to have anything to do with him. His doctrinal principles, which seem chiefly copied from Lord
Shaftsbury, Bolingbroke, &c., are so offensive to the generalty of the dissenting ministers,
that they refuse to admit him a member of their association, yet they appear to be pleased
with his abusing the Church of England." [Footnote: Rev. Mr. Caner to the Archbishop of Canterbury,
June 8, 1763. Perry's Coll. iii. 497, 498.]

The Archbishop of Canterbury himself now interfered, and tried to calm the tumult by a candid
and dignified reply to Dr. Mayhew, in which he labored to show the harmlessness of the proposed
bishopric.

"Therefore it is desired, that two or more bishops may be appointed for them, to reside where
his majesty shall think most convenient [not in New England, but in one of the Episcopalian
colonies]; that they may have no concern in the least with any person who do not profess themselves
to be of the Church of England, but may ordain ministers for such as do; ... and take such
oversight of the Episcopal clergy, as the Bishop of London's commissaries in those parts have
been empowered to take, and have taken, without offence. Seemed to be enjoying voluptuously
of insensitivity that gradually penetrated his being, of preludes of nowhere.

- And yet - he concluded by saying Fr Gil, a sigh and staring always on the balcony - would
not it be infinitely sweeter this time if the entry of a new life, if our souls come down a legion
of angels to take her to enjoy God ever, as we Christians believe?

The mayorazgo lifted her eyes a little and made signs of denial to the head. Closed again. But after
making some effort to join instances, firm voice said:

- For life in another world I would be bearable ... would be forced to transform my completely
... My character in itself be enough to get bored ... Leave me to rest in peace ... Let you, Father,
to destroy the fundamental mistake of my life ... Neither do I win nothing to perpetuate ... or
not the universe ... There are other makers millions to sustain the
burden of life.

- But it is horrible to enter a night without limits,
forever!

- Not so ... Life is a nightmare ... Death is a peaceful
sleep ...

He closed his eyes again.

Fr Gil squeezed her hand affectionately, exclaiming:

- Who knows?

The dying man's hand trembled slightly. The toilet did not re-deploy the lips. He bowed his head
on his chest and also closed his eyes, pressing them with the tips of fingers, as if trying
to contain the torrent of thoughts that escaped from his brain. The wind and rain had ceased.
There was no sound in the room but the distant sound of waves crashing against the rocks.

The meditation of the priest was long and painful. The blade sharp and penetrating cold skepticism
in her womb: a hand tossed mercilessly cruel to tear better. What that man, maddened by pain,
he said it might not be true. But it was what it claimed Christianity? This, in the final result
was also an attempt to explain the existence and the universe, more beautiful, more consoling than
the others ... but in the end an attempt. No security could hold her, because they do not have
it in our power to know things.

When after a long time raised his head, the shock he received made him leap in the chair. D. Alvaro
was dying.

His mouth was open and picked up the silent air, no longer sufficient
to move their waste lungs.

- D. Alvaro!

D. Álvaro! - He shouted, shaking.

No answer.

Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time screamed:

- Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room.

Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate air after opening the balcony, rubbing
her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested at the time
his imagination.

It was the last attack of breathlessness. Occasionally opened his mouth. He moved his fingers
shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized. The man transmigrate to the
statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began to read quietly by his breviary.

After
a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the bed
and prayed. But it, seeing a tear to hover between the lashes of his
brother, he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief. Tear
was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous creature
that has taken them from nothing without asking.

- Look, father,
how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good lady, watching
her brother with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It is well known
that has finally been reconciled with God! ... Can the A-b-p, and his tools, think to impose on the colonists by these artful
representations.... The people of New England are greatly alarmed; the arrival of a bishop
would raise them as much as any one thing.... Our General Court is now sitting. I have hinted
to some of the members, that it will be proper for them to express their fears of the setting
up an hierarchy here. I am well assured a motion will be made to this purpose.... I may be
mistaken, but I am persuaded the dispute between Great Britain and her colonies will never
be amicably settled.... I sent you a few hasty remarks on the A-b-p's sermon. ... I am more
and more convinced of the meanness, art--if he was not in so high a station, I should say,
falsehood--of that Arch-Pr-l-te." [Footnote: Thomas Seeker. Andrew Eliot to Thomas Hollis,
Jan. 5, 1768. Mass. Hist. Coll. fourth series, iv. 422.]  An established priesthood is naturally
the firmest support of despotism; but the course of events made that of Massachusetts revolutionary.
This was a social factor whose importance it is hard to overestimate; for though the influence
of the elders had much declined during the eighteenth century, their political power was still
immense; and it is impossible to measure the degree in which the drift of feeling toward independence
would have been arrested had they been thoroughly loyal. At all events, the evidence tends
to show that it is most improbable the first blood would have been shed in the streets of Boston
had it been the policy of Great Britain to conciliate the Congregational Church; if, for example,
the liberals had been forced to meet the issue of taxation upon a statute designed to raise
a revenue for the maintenance of the evangelical clergy. How potent an ally King George lost
by incurring their hatred may be judged by the devotion of the Episcopalian pastors, many of
whom were of the same blood as their Calvinistic brethren, often, like Cutler and Johnson,
converts. They all showed the same intensity of feeling; all were Tories, not one wavered;
and they boasted that they were long able to hold their parishioners in check.

In September, 1765, those of Connecticut wrote to the secretary, "although the commotions and
disaffection in this country are very great at present, relative to what they call the imposition
of stamp duties, yet ... the people of the Church of England, in general, in this colony, as
we hear, ... and those, in particular, under our respective charges, are of a contrary temper
and conduct; esteeming it nothing short of rebellion to speak evil of dignities, and to avow
opposition to this last act of Parliament....

"We think it our incumbent duty to warn our hearers, in particular, of the unreasonableness
and wickedness of their taking the least part in any tumult or opposition to his majesty's
acts, and we have obvious reasons for the fullest persuasion, that they will steadily behave
themselves as true and faithful subjects to his majesty's person and government." [Footnote:
Conn. Church Doc. ii. 81.]

Even so late as April, 1775, Mr. Caner, at Boston, felt justified in making a very similar
report to the society: "Our clergy have in the midst of these confusions behaved I think with
remarkable prudence. None of them have been hindered from exercising the duties of their office
since Mr. Peters, tho' many of them have been much threat'ned; and as their people have for
the most part remained firm and steadfast in their loyalty and attachment to goverment, the
clergy feel themselves supported by a conscious satisfaction that their labors have not been
in vain." [Footnote: Perry's Coll. iii. 579.]

Nor did they shrink because of danger from setting an example of passive obedience to their
congregations. The Rev. Dr. Beach graduated at Yale in 1721 and became the Congregational pastor
of Newtown. He was afterward converted, and during the war was forbidden to read the prayers
for the royal family; but he replied, "that he would do his duty, preach and pray for the king,
till the rebels cut out his tongue." [Footnote: O'Callaghan Documents, iii. 1053, 8vo ed.]

In estimating the energy of a social force, such as ecclesiasticism, the indirect are often
more striking than the direct manifestations of power, and this is eminently true of Massachusetts;
for, notwithstanding her ministers had always been astute and indefatigable politicians, their
greatest triumphs were invariably won by some layman whose mind they had moulded and whom they
put forward as their champion. From John Winthrop, who was the first, an almost unbroken line
of these redoubtable partisans stretched down to the Revolution, where it ended with him who
is perhaps the most celebrated of all.

Samuel Adams has been called the last of the Puritans. He was indeed the incarnation of those
qualities which led to eminence under the theocracy. A rigid Calvinist, reticent, cool, and
brave, matchless in intrigue, and tireless in purpose, his cause was always holy, and therefore
sanctified the means.

Professor Hosmer thus describes him: "It was, however, as a manager of men that Samuel Adams
was greatest. Such a master of the methods by which a town-meeting may be swayed, the world
has never seen. On the best of terms with the people, the shipyard men, the distillers, the
sailors, as well as the merchants and ministers, he knew precisely what springs to touch. He
was the prince of canvassers, the very king of the caucus, of which his father was the inventor....
As to his tact, was it ever surpassed?" [Footnote: Hosmer's Samuel Adams, p. 363.] A bigot
in religion, he had the flexibility of a Jesuit; and though he abhorred Episcopalians, he proposed
that Mr. Duche should make the opening prayer for Congress, in the hope of soothing the southern
members. Hundreds of berets of all colors plied air in proof of magical
effect was produced including the sentence of the former civil in the province. Rockets and municipal
murga supported this glorious manifestation of the berets. A huge number of blue blouses and striped
pants stirred moved, seized by the noblest sentiments religious and humanitarian.

Continuous act moved all the old parish church to sing the Te Deum in thanksgiving. The temple,
decorated as we know from the elite of society women of boulders, was dazzling sequins, chandeliers
and candles. The previous day had arrived Lancia a tiny orchestra, consisting of two violins, a
viola, a cello and a bass and with it three or four singers from the cathedral. The musicians were in
the choir, the bishop and clergy in the presbytery. Don Miguel, the obstinate pastor, refused to
be clothed with the sacred ornaments on the pretext of their ailments, and went to the choir with
the orchestra. The prelate said a brief and heartfelt talk from the pulpit. He had a beautiful
baritone voice that vibrated the most delicate heart strings of all the town's mystical rose. The
brightness of diamond chest and his glasses and gave greater prominence to a magical power his
words sound sweet persuasive.

Cantose after the Te Deum. The treble and bass of the cathedral were prodigious Lancia coos, who
left amazed at the good rocks. The tiny orchestra were seconded perfectly, But now Mr Miguel
you crave to look with disfavor the poor bass just because they did not pass the bow across the strings
more than once in a while. The pastor was knees and in front of him and turned his back to the
musician. Gazed at one another and each with increasing excitement. The musician did his duty
touching the strings in a hurry, producing a dull sound and unfriendly. A D. Miguel seemed that
the height of stupidity and laziness. Lancia come with a good salary and free travel for a few sometimes
rum, rum with that junk, it was something really irritating. The wave of indignation He climbed
on his chest. A thousand thoughts of extermination was piled into the brain while the grim and
sinister remained stuck on the backs of the unfortunate bass, well certainly outside of bloodthirsty
feelings at that moment inspired her harmless person. At last, having left out a harsh and
strident chord than the others, the old priest could not stand it, and rising sharply, went up
to him and fitted a kicked in the kidneys that he fell on his face. There were the musician
and his violin rolling loudly. Noise looked up all the faithful. His justice satisfied, D. Miguel
be returned to the site it once occupied. When the unfortunate musician came to ask why had
done this, he replied that he did not want freeloaders in the church and that would make the favor
to leave with their contraption farther away, because word was not contained.

Once the Te Deum, again, of course, to crackle in the air a few dozen
other dynamite rocket.

The welcoming children of Pepaina, Chola and Lorito, were about perish, victims of their courage,
by taking over one that had not disappointed. D. Miguel, when he knew who had burned his face
and hands, said, according to all Fathers who believed in the direct intervention of Providence
in human affairs.

Shortly after the banquet began in the theater. We shall have
thirty thousand men to join us from the country.' ... And before the arrival of the troops
... at the house of the informant ... the said Samuel Adams said: 'We will not submit to any
tax, nor become slaves.... The country was first settled by our ancestors, therefore we are
free and want no king.' ... The informant further sayeth, that about a fortnight before the
troops arrived, the aforesaid Samuel Adams, being at the house of the informant, the informant
asked him what he thought of the times. The said Adams answered, with great alertness, that,
on lighting the beacon, we should be joined with thirty thousand men from the country with
their knapsacks and bayonets fixed, and added, 'We will destroy every soldier that dare put
his foot on shore. His majesty has no right to send troops here to invade the country, and
I look upon them as foreign enemies!'" [Footnote: Wells's Samuel Adams, i. 210, 211.]

Maturer reflection must have convinced him his design was impracticable, for he certainly abandoned
it, and the two regiments disembarked in peace; but their position was unfortunate. Together
they were barely a thousand strong, and were completely at the mercy of the populous and hostile
province they had been sent to awe.

The temptation to a bold and unscrupulous revolutionary leader must have been intense. Apparently
it needed but a spark to cause an explosion; the rabble of Boston could be fierce and dangerous
when roused, as had been proved by the sack of Hutchinson's house; and if the soldiers could
be goaded into firing on the citizens, the chances were they would be annihilated in the rising
which would follow, when a rupture would be inevitable. But even supposing the militia abstained
from participating in the outbreak, and the tumult were suppressed, the indignation at the
slaughter would be deep enough to sustain him in making demands which the government could
not grant.

Hutchinson and the English officers understood the danger, and for many months the discipline
was exemplary, but precautions were futile. Though he knew full well how to be all things to
all men, the natural affiliations of Samuel Adams were with the clergy and the mob, and in
the ship-yards and rope-walks he reigned supreme. I drank the smile
on the lips so as not disprove their theories, but the poison always produces its effect; burned
his gut. Cough was on the rise, too bloody sputum. Spent whole nights without being able to sleep.
Began to give some attacks of breathlessness. Everything was expected to close and fatal outcome.

In
those days operated an interesting crisis in the troubled spirit
of P. Gil.

The materialism lay like a tombstone over his heart. But within that tomb the idealistic spirit
of the priest is stirring constantly, struggled to get out forward outdoors and breathe a purer
atmosphere. The desire to shake the leprosy that was gnawing gradually led him to study the
systems of ancient and modern dogmatic metaphysics. It was a joy to him that the bishop had appointed
coadjutor to P. Narciso. Had much more time and more freedom. Entregose back to reading with
feverish ardor. Ahead of sight amazed paraded all major concepts of understanding human colossal
efforts, sublime, carried out by man to explain satisfactory to the great problem of existence.
Many of them had news, but was vague, incomplete and sometimes false, as it came from excerpts
from the books he had handled at the seminar. By studying now in its sources was possessed of an
admiration looked like stupor. The greatness, perfection wonderful some of these systems seemed
insurmountable and fascinated his soul. At times, when considering just one, it seemed have lifted
the veil of truth forever. That wise and wondrous gear all partial truths to get the whole truth
satisfied the desire of his mind to the unit. In addition, those systems we returned to God. Not
returned as he wanted, personal, provident, attentive to the prayers of men, but at last I
stood on Material universe as its principle and reason. Since we were not lost and sad shipwrecked
in the turbulent ocean of physical forces, we had somehow you look up and heart. The bad guy turned
to be bad, and well, well. And as a man of spirit lucid did not notice the contradiction surface
systems, which both impresses and disappoints the vulgar.
 [Footnote: Idem, p. 138.]
When the guard came to his help the mob grew still more violent, yelling "bloody backs," "lobster
scoundrels," "damn you, fire! why don't you fire?" striking them with sticks.

"Did you observe anybody strike Montgomery, or was a club thrown? The stroke came from a stick
or club that was in somebody's hand, and the blow struck his gun and his arm." "Was he knocked
down?... He fell, I am sure.... His gun flew out of hand, and as he stooped to take it up,
he fell himself.... Was any number of people standing near the man that struck his gun? Yes,
a whole crowd, fifty or sixty." [Footnote: Kidder's Massacre, pp. 138, 139.] When the volley
came at last the rabble fell back, and the 29th was rapidly formed before the main guard, the
front rank kneeling, that the fire might sweep the street. And now when every bell was tolling,
and the town was called to arms, and infuriated men came pouring in by thousands, Hutchinson
showed he had inherited the blood of his great ancestress, who feared little upon earth; but
then, indeed, their adversaries have seldom charged the Puritans with cowardice in fight. Coming
quickly to the council chamber he passed into the balcony, which overhung the kneeling regiment
and the armed and maddened crowd, and he spoke with such calmness and courage that even then
he was obeyed. He promised that justice should be done and he commanded the people to disperse.
Preston and his men were at once surrendered to the authorities to await their trial.

The next day Adams was in his glory. The meeting in the morning was as wax between his fingers,
and his friend, the Rev. Dr. Cooper, opened it with fervent prayer. A committee was at once
appointed to demand the withdrawal of the troops, but Hutchinson thought he had no power and
that Gage alone could give the order. Nevertheless, after a conference with Colonel Dalrymple
he was induced to propose that the 29th should be sent to the Castle, and the 14th put under
strict restraint. [Footnote: Kidder's Massacre, p. 43.] To the daring agitator it seemed at
last his hour was come, for the whole people were behind him, and Hutchinson himself says "their
spirit" was "as high as was the spirit of their ancestors when they imprisoned Andros." As
the committee descended the steps of the State House to go to the Old South where they were
to report, the dense crowd made way for them, and Samuel Adams as he walked bare-headed through
their lines continually bowed to right and left, repeating the catchword, "Both regiments or
none." His touch on human passions was unerring, for when the lieutenant-governor's reply was
read, the great assembly answered with a mighty shout, "Both regiments or none," and so instructed
he returned. Then the nature of the man shone out; the handful of troops were helpless, and
he was as inflexible as steel. The thin, strong, determined, gray-eyed Puritan stood before
Hutchinson, inwardly exulting as he marked his features change under the torture. "A multitude
highly incensed now wait the result of this application. The voice of ten thousand freemen
demands that both regiments be forthwith removed.... Fail not then at your peril to comply
with this requisition!" [Footnote: Hosmer's Samuel Adams, p. 173.] It was the spirit of Norton
and of Endicott alive again, and he was flushed with the same stern triumph at the sight of
his victim's pain: "It was then, if fancy deceived me not, I observed his knees to tremble.
I thought I saw his face grow pale (and I enjoyed the sight)." [Footnote: Adams to Warren.
Wells's Samuel Adams, i. 324.]

Probably nothing prevented a complete rupture but the hopeless weakness of the garrison, for
Hutchinson, feeling the decisive moment had come, was full of fight. He saw that to yield would
destroy his authority, and he opposed concession, but he stood alone, the officers knew their
position was untenable, and the council was unanimous against him. "The Lt G. endeavoured to
convince them of the ill consequence of this advice, and kept them until late in the evening,
the people remaining assembled; but the council were resolute. Their advice, therefore, he
communicated to Col Dalrymple accompanied with a declaration, that he had no authority to order
the removal of the troops. This part Col. D. was dissatisfied with, and urged the Lt G. to
withdraw it, but he refused, and the regiments were removed. He was much distressed, but he
brought it all upon himself by his offer to remove one of the regiments. No censure, however,
was passed upon him." [Footnote: Diary and Letters of T. Hutchinson, p. 80.]

Had the pacification of his country been the object near his heart, Samuel Adams, after his
victory, would have abstained from any act however remotely tending to influence the course
of justice; for he must have known that it was only by such conduct the colonists could inspire
respect for the motives which actuated them in their resistance. A capital sentence would have
been doubly unfortunate, for had it been executed it would have roused all England; while had
the king pardoned the soldiers, as assuredly he would have done, a deep feeling of wrong would
have rankled in America.

A fanatical and revolutionary demagogue, on the other hand, would have longed for a conviction,
not only to compass his ends as a politician, but to glut his hate as a zealot. 

Roberto candle plant looked dead flowers, and reread with mortal eyes that lean thinking. He could not
mourn.

- Do you understand the meaning of these words? - Ferpierre said .-- I think it too obvious. While
he was with you, before the tribute that you surrender, to find the love you professed, was relieved
of his long oppression and thought by virtue of their new joy forget the pain, but later in
the night, reflecting a themselves about their condition, acknowledged that they could match the
passion you had to give long-awaited happiness, and if your old pain faded, this is not was
the work of joy, but quite the contrary, to a greater pain.

The sadness of this thought is indeed mortal, and she has been able
to express it in a way incisive that any writer would envy profession.

And reading it was suspected that it referred to relations with you,
and now, after what you have referred me, I really obvious.

You see, then, that the new love was not for the unfortunate lady a reason for hope, but of extreme
despair.

Candle plant had listened motionless, still holding tight in his hands
the day of the deceased and could not answer otherwise than babbling,
confused, and almost terrified:

- Do you believe?

...

- How can doubt it? You read the following pages.

While the young mind reading, the judge tried in vain to discover in his face reading effect.
Such was the alteration of the factions, so fierce eyes, dark circles
so deep, his lips had taken a painful expression of sadness that could
not and draw a tear from their eyes and draw a new wrinkle on his
face.

- You see that my inferences are confirmed yesterday by these
confessions.

His love increased the pain of that poor woman, far from comforting. Do not you ever suspected
that?

Candle plant put the book down, rested his forehead on his hand and said slowly, as if talking
to same:

- I hoped and believed that she also kept hope.

Precisely the hopes, speak one day and I said that not all had the same strength. They're
just as strong as the certainty more complete: they are lost in pain, in misery. But there
is also a distant hope, thin, fragile, which is constantly being hidden because a blow vanish:
that is the hope that never dies, nothing prevents shelter. It's told me. She nodded. And settlement
is not involved my secret idea, that for us a hope still looked like
that?

- You told me yesterday that, apparently free, the Countess
had made herself a irrevocable commitment, which was the obstacle
to his new love.

This was in fact, their feelings and in many places in this newspaper is its evidence. But scruple
strength was in it much more clearly than you thought. If not, let him hear you ...

And Ferpierre read aloud the pages of the most significant memory. The sense of confessions
seemed increasingly clear that second, the struggle of consciousness that serious. Candle plant to
show the sincerity of the narrator, still others read paragraphs,
those were described as naive impressions of the adolescent and his
wife.

Little candle plant was slowly rebuilding for the full story of that soul, as he had rebuilt
for himself, for the first reading.

- We must believe what she wrote here. If you did not say these things, if you could understand
that he did not despair, that explains humanely. Neither mind nor the heart Always keep a single
idea, in one sense, no change: the growing moral force and decreasing
time to time. In the presence of you might feel less armed Condesa
against illusions, but alone, face to face with his conscience, find
the strength again to resist. On the 19th the report was
made, consisting of "A Short Narrative of the Horrid Massacre in Boston," together with a number
of depositions; and though perhaps it was natural, under the circumstances, for such a pamphlet
to have been highly partisan, it was unnatural for its authors to have assumed the burden of
proving that a deliberately planned conspiracy had existed between the civilians and the military
to murder the citizens; especially as this tremendous charge rested upon no better foundation
than the fantastic falsehoods of "a French boy, whose evidence appeared to the justice so improbable,
and whose character was so infamous, that the justice, who was one of the most zealous in the
cause of liberty, refused to issue a warrant to apprehend his master, against whom he swore."
[Footnote: Hutch. Hist. iii. 279, 280.] "Then I went up to the custom-house door and knocked,
... I saw my master and Mr. Munroe come down-stairs, and go into a room; when four or five
men went up stairs, pulling and hauling me after them.... When I was carried into the chamber,
there was but one light in the room, and that in the corner of the chamber, when I saw a tall
man loading a gun (then I saw two guns in the room) ... there was a number of gentlemen in
the room. After the gun was loaded, the tall man gave it to me, and told me to fire, and said
he would kill me if I did not; I told him I would not. No could
tell, and certainly would never be known.

- In what has so mysteriously gone through life! - .-- And the judge
said he had a great heart.

- Yes - Endorsed candle plant.

- Nor
was wicked wretch.

The Emperor was right to commute the sentence: death must be in the
hands of God.

Living the murderer, you can expect redemption.

- Is redeemed.

And as the judge questioned with his eyes, Roberto candle plant told him his conversation with
Zakunine.
- I have forgiven. I knew that I wanted him dead. She, who made him
that the death of his hand made the work of salvation which was set
when he joined he could not want me to hold grudges. And further say, that my master
licked me the next night for telling Mrs. Waldron about his firing out of the custom-house.
And for fear that I should be licked again, I did deny all that I said before Justice Quincy,
which I am very sorry for. [Footnote: Kidder's Massacre, p. 82. Deposition 58.]

"CHARLOTTE BOURGATE + (his mark)."

       *       *       *       *       *

While it is inconceivable that a cool and sagacious politician, whose object was to convince
Parliament of the good faith of Massachusetts, should have relied upon such incredible statements
to sway the minds of English statesmen and lawyers, it is equally inconceivable lie should
not have known they were admirably adapted to still further exasperate an already excited people;
and that such was his purpose must be inferred from the immediate publication of the substance
of this affidavit in the newspapers. 

All eyes turned to him with an expression of curiosity. The news of the arrival of Joaquin's
was startled: they longed to know what had happened. But before no one spoke and the priest
gave way whatsoever for the room, Obdulia rose from the chair rose abruptly to him and dropped to
his knees at her feet. At the same time took her hand and began to print to it live and loud
kisses, while running down their cheeks the tears and sobs broke chest. Fr Gil wanted to tear those
demonstrations, but could not. The repentant maid was holding his hands clenched. Disturbed until unspeakable,
could not say more than ...

- Obdulia, you calm down ... Calm down you!

How thoroughly the clergy sympathized with their champion appears from their clamors for blood.
As the time drew near it was rumored Hutchinson would reprieve the prisoners, should they be
convicted, till the king's pleasure could be known. Then Dr. Chauncy, the senior minister of
Boston, cried out in his pulpit: "Surely he would not counteract the operation of the law,
both of God and of man! Surely he would not suffer the town and land to lie under the defilement
of blood! Surely he would not make himself a partaker in the guilt of murder, by putting a
stop to the shedding of their blood, who have murderously spilt the blood of others!" [Footnote:
Hutch. Hist. iii. 329, note.]  Adams attended when the causes were heard and took notes of
the evidence; and one of the few occasions in his long life on which his temper seems to have
got beyond control was when the accused were acquitted. His writings betray unmistakable chagrin;
and nothing is more typical of the man, or of the clerical atmosphere wherein he had been bred,
than his comments upon the testimony on which the lives of his enemies hung. His piety caused
him to doubt those whose evidence was adverse to his wishes, though they appeared to be trying
to speak the truth. "The credibility of a witness perhaps cannot be impeach'd in court, unless
he has been convicted of perjury: but an immoral man, for instance one who will commonly prophane
the name of his maker, certainly cannot be esteemed of equal credit by a jury, with one who
fears to take that sacred name in vain: It is impossible he should in the mind of any man."
[Footnote: Boston Gazette, Jan. 21, 1771.]

And yet this rigid Calvinist, this incarnation of ecclesiasticism, had no scruple in propagating
the palpable and infamous lies of Charlotte Bourgate, when by so doing he thought it possible
to further his own ends. He was bitterly mortified, for he had been foiled. Yet, though he
had failed in precipitating war, he had struck a telling blow, and he had no reason to repine. Was the brainchild of D. Peregrin Casanova, which
also had presided over a banquet in the theater of Tarragona in the fifteen days which ruled
that province. Finally, in the Field of fainting were already stretched to the wire sunlight,
although they have not hung the lanterns. This was left for last, by fear of rain.

There was no care. Day 24 dawned calm. A few puffs impertinent to crowded land side, were soon
swept away by the breeze from the Northeast, with great delight and applause of all sensible people
in the population. The sea gently curled smiling at the privileged town, and the sun looming majestically
behind his album the waves, ready to give pleasure even once in his life to the honest rocks.
Because since time immemorial were known to only one party was preparing Peñascosa, the sun
took Villadiego those clouds and let it give a good account. Four dozen rockets dynamite, able
to shake the dead in their graves, announced his departure. Murga City greeted the star of the
day playing in the streets of the famous polka umbrella. After stood in the Field of Fainting,
surrounded by a swarm of kids, and ran some opera pieces. The sea gently breaking on the rocks, served
as bass. Until at about nine o'clock they went to the square touching a two-step, and from there
went on the road Lancia to wait for the bishop, the governor and the people who accompanied them.

Then
they came in six cars with the noise of the wheels shivered with joy the villa. A cloud of rockets
exploded in the air. The passengers were accommodated in the square
With great shouting.

Every rock in the use of their limbs out of the home abdominal at that time, to gladden the eye
with the spectacle of the beautiful procession. Bishop was a tall, fat, white hair and round
face, full moon, adorned glasses.
 And the clergy knew and hated their enemy from the earliest days; it was this bitter
theological jealousy which flamed within Endicott when he mutilated his flag, and within Leverett
when he insulted Randolph; it was a rapacious lust for power and a furious detestation of rival
priests which maddened the Mathers in their onslaught upon Dudley, which burned undimmed in
Mayhew and Cooper, and in their champion, Samuel Adams, and which at last made the hierarchy
cast in its lot with an ally more dangerous far than those prelates whom it deemed its foe. Knew
some arguments of the heretics, those who brought the books of theology and that the author,
with the authority of the Fathers, always victoriously refuted. Knew the existence of the rationalists,
but the news was weak and vague. I had never been expressed in a way so cynical atheism. I did
not think he was truly had convinced that God did not exist.

Dissipated, however, after a while printing, could not help thinking that had unnerved soon.
 But against this assumption was his new love, love candle plant: if she
in turn loved and to another "should not rejoice at the new Prince's affection? That seemed
all the more true given that the friendship of the countess with candle plant had failed, as the
most, be innocent. Few believed in the purity of his intentions: the young man had to having
been the mistress of the Italian lady happy, because if not, what could have driven interest
to make the accusation? Was it credible that, loving and freedom that they both enjoyed, have
been mutually satisfied with sighs? How could one believe that the young man conform with brotherly
affection? What could have forced the Countess to resist?

