In view of the facts that at this writing, ink and paper and pens have not as yet been invented,
and that we have no capable stenographers among our village folk, and that because of my advanced
years I should find great difficulty in producing my manuscript on a type-writing machine with
my gouty fingers--for, of the luscious fluid of the grape have I been a ready, though never
over-abundant, consumer--even if I were familiar with the keyboard of such an instrument, or,
if indeed, there were any such instrument to facilitate the work--in view of these facts, I
say, I have been compelled to make use of the literary methods of the Egyptians, and with hammer
and chisel, to gouge out my "Few Remarks" upon such slabs of stone as I can find upon my native
heath.

[Footnote 1: It is quite interesting, in the light of the contentions of history as to man's
earliest realization that the earth is round, to find Methuselah speaking in this fashion.
It would seem from this that the real facts had dawned upon the Patriarch's mind even at this
early period, and one is therefore disposed to regard as less apocryphal the anecdote recorded
in Volume III, Chapter 38, of "The Life and Voyages of Noah," wherein Adam, after being ejected
from the Garden of Eden, asked by Cain if he believes the world to be round like an orange,
replies:

"I used to think so, my son, but under prevailing conditions I am forced into a more or less
definite suspicion that it is elliptical, like a lemon."--EDITOR.]

Let us hope that my story will not prove as heavy as my manuscript. It is hardly necessary
for me to assure the indulgent reader that such a method of composition is not altogether an
easy task for a man who is shortly to celebrate his nine hundred and sixty-fifth birthday,
more especially since at no time in my life have I studied the arts of the Stone-Cutter, or
been a master in the Science of Quarrying. Nor is it easy at my advanced age, with a back no
longer sinewy, and muscles grown flabby from lack of active exercise, for me to lift a virgin
sheet of stone from the ground to the surface of my writing-desk without a derrick, but these
are, after all, minor difficulties, and I shall let no such insignificant obstacles stand between
me and the great purpose I have in mind. I shall persist in the face of all in the writing
of this Autobiography if for no worthier object than to provide occupation for my leisure hours
which, in these patriarchal days to which I have attained, sometimes hang heavy on my hands.
I know not why it should so transpire, but it is the fact that since I passed my nine hundred
and fiftieth birthday I have had little liking for the pleasures which modern society most
affects. To be sure, old and feeble as I am, and despite the uncertain quality of my knees,
I still enjoy the excitement of the Virginia Reel, and can still hold my own with men several
centuries younger than myself in the clog, but I leave such diversions as bridge, draw-poker
and pinochle to more frivolous minds--though I will say that when my great-grandchildren, Shem,
Ham and Japhet, the sons of my grandson Noah, come to my house on the few holidays, their somewhat
over-sober parent allows them from their labors in the ship-yard, I take great delight in sitting
upon the ground with them and renewing my acquaintance with those games of my youth, marbles,
and mumbledy-peg, the which I learned from my great-uncle-seven-times-removed, Cain, in the
days when with my grandfather, Jared, I used to go to see our first ancestor, Adam, at the
old farm just outside of Edensburg where, with his beautiful wife Eve, that Grand Old Man was
living in honored retirement.

Nor have I in these days, as I used to have, any especial taste for the joys of the chase.
There was a time when my slungshot was unerring, and I could bring down a Dodo, or snipe my
Harpy on the wing with as much ease as my wife can hit our barn-door with a rolling-pin at
six feet, and for three hundred and thirty years I never let escape me any opportunity for
tracking the Dinosaur, the Pterodactyl, or that fierce and sanguinary creature the Osteostogothemy
to his lair and there fighting him unto the death during the open season for wild game of that
particular sort. I well remember how, in my boyhood days, to be precise, shortly after my two
hundred and twenty-second birthday, I went with my great-grandfather, Mehalaleel, over into
the woods back of Little Ararat after a great horned Ornythyrhyncus and--but that is another
story. Suffice it to say that I have at last reached a period in my life where I am content
to leave the pleasures of Nimrod to my more nimble neighbors, and that now no winged thing,
save an occasional mosquito, or locust, need fear my approach, and that my indulgence in the
shedding of the blood of animals is confined to an infrequent personal superintendence of the
slaughter of a spring-lamb in green-pea time, when the scent is in the julep and the bloom
is on the mint; or possibly, now and then, the removal from the pasture to the pantry of a
bit of lowing roast-beef, when I feel an inner craving for the crackle and the steak.

Racing I have an abhorrence for, and always have had since in my early days I attended the
county-fair at North Ararat, and was there induced by one of my neighbors to participate as
a rider in a twenty-mile steeplechase between a Discosaurus which I rode, and a Diplodocus
in his possession. I found after the race had started that the animal which had been assigned
to me as a gentleman jockey, had not been broken to the saddle, and my experience during the
next six days in staying on his back--for he immediately took the bit between his teeth and
bolted for the woods, and was not again got under control for that time--as he jumped over
the various obstacles to his progress, from thank-you-marms in the highways which were plentiful,
to such mountains as the country for a thousand miles about provided for his delectation, was
one of the most terrific in my life, prolonged as it has been. I had been assured that the
race was to be a "Go-As-You-Please" affair, but I had not been seated on that horrible creature's
back for two minutes before I discovered that it was a "Go-As-He-Pleased" affair and that "Going-As-I-Pleased,"
like the flowers that bloom in the Spring, had nothing to do with the case. Had I begun in
the pursuit of the pleasures of the track in later years after the invention of wheels, whereby
that easy running vehicle, the sulky, was brought into being, and when, by the taming of the
horse, the latter became a domesticated animal with sporting proclivities, instead of a mere
prowler of the plains, I might have found the joys of racing more to my taste, although in
these later years of my life when a truly noble pursuit has degenerated into a mere gambling
enterprise, wherein those who can ill afford it squander their substance in riotous bookmaking,
I am inclined to be grateful that my first experience in this direction has led me to cultivate
an unconcerned aloofness from a pursuit which is ruinous to the old and corrupting to the young.

Were the present state of literature more hopeful, perhaps I should find pleasure in reading,
but I have viewed with such increasing alarm the growth of sensationalism in the literary output
of my age that I have felt that I owed it to my posterity, which is rapidly growing in numbers--I
believe that the latest annual report of the Society of the Sons and Daughters of Methuselah
shows a membership of six hundred and thirty-eight thousand, without counting the new arrivals
since the end of the last fiscal year, which, at a rough guess, I should place at thirty-six
thousand--I have felt, I say, that I owe it to that posterity to set it the example of not
reading, as my most effective protest against those pernicious influences which have made the
modern literary school a menace to civilization. Surely if Noah's children for instance, Shem,
Ham and Japhet, whom I have already had occasion to mention, were to surprise me, their venerable,
and I hope venerated ancestor, reading such stories as are now put forth by our most successful
quarrymen--stories like that unspeakable novel "Three Decades," of which I am credibly informed
eight million tons have already been sold; and which, let me say, when I had read only seven
slabs of it I had carted away and dumped into the Red Sea; or the innocuous but highly frivolous
tales of Miss Laura Jean Diplodocus--they would hardly accept from me as worthy of serious
attention such admonitions as I am constantly giving them on the subject of the decadence of
literature when I find them poring over the novels of the day. Consequently even this usual
solace of old age is denied to me, and writing becomes my refuge.

I bespeak the reader's indulgence if he or she find in the ensuing pages any serious lapses
from true literary style. I write merely as I feel, and do not pretend to be either an expert
hieroglyphist or a rhetorician of commanding quality. Perhaps I should do more wisely if I
were to accept the advice of my great-grandson Ham, who, overhearing my remark to a caller
last Sunday evening that the work I have undertaken is one of considerable difficulty, climbed
up into my lap and in his childish way asked me why I did not hire a boswell to do it for me.
I had to tell the child that I did not know what a boswell was, and when I questioned him on
the subject more closely, I found that it was only one of his childish fancies. If there were
such a thing as that rather euphoniously named invention of Ham's who could relieve me of the
drudgery of writing my own life, and who would do it well, I would cheerfully relinquish that
end of my enterprise to him, but in the absence of such a thing, I am, in spite of my manifest
shortcomings, compelled to do the work myself. On behalf of my story I can say, however, that
whatever I shall put down here will be the truth, and that what I remember notwithstanding
my advanced years, I remember perfectly. I am quite aware that in some of the tales that I
shall tell, especially those having to do with Prehistoric Animals I have met, or Antediluvians
as I believe the Scientists call them, what I may say as to their habits--I was going to say
manners, but refrain because in all my life I have never observed that they had any--and powers
may fall upon some ears as extravagant exaggerations. To these let me say here and now that
there are exceptions to all rules, and that if for instance, I tell the story of a Pterodactyl
that after being swallowed whole by a Discosaurus, successfully gnaws his way through the walls
of the latter's stomach to freedom, I make no claim that all Pterodactyls could do the same,
but merely that in this particular case the Pterodactyl to which I refer did it, and that I
know that he did it because the man who saw it is a cousin of my grandfather's first wife's
step-son, and is so wedded to truth that he is even now in jail because he would not deny a
charge of sheep-stealing, which he might easily have done were he an untruthful man. Again
when I observe that I have caught with an ordinary fish-hook, baited with a common garden,
or angle worm, on the end of a light trout-line, a Creosaurus with a neck ninety-seven feet
long, and scales so large that you could weigh a hay-wagon on the smallest of the lot near
the end of his tail, I admit at the outset that the feat was unusual, had never occurred before,
and is never likely to occur again, but can bring affidavits to prove that it did happen that
time, signed by reputable parties who have heard me tell about it more than once. I make these
statements here not in any sense to apologize for anything I shall say in my book, but merely
to forestall the criticism of highly cultivated and truly scientific readers who, after a lifelong
study of the habits of these creatures may feel impelled to question the accuracy of my statements
and add to my perplexities by so advertising my book that I shall be put to the arduous necessity
of chiseling out another edition, a labor which I have no desire to assume.

One word more as to the language I have chosen for the presentation of my narrative. I have
chosen English as the language in which to chisel out these random recollections of mine for
a variety of reasons. Most conspicuous of these is that at the time of this writing no one
has as yet thought to devise a French, German, Spanish or Italian language. Russian I have
no familiarity with. Chinese I do not care for. Latin and Greek few people can read, and as
for Egyptian, while it is an excellent and fluent tongue for speaking purposes, I find myself
appalled at the prospect of writing a story of the length of mine in the hieroglyphics which
up to date form the whole extent of Egyptian chirography. An occasional pictorial rebus in
a child's magazine is a source of pleasure and profit to both the young and the old, but the
autobiography of a man of my years told in pictures, and pictures for the most part of squab,
spring chickens, and canvas-back ducks, would, I fear, prove arduous reading. Moreover I am
but an indifferent draughtsman, and I suspect that when the precise thought that I have in
mind can best be expressed by a portrait of a humming-bird, or a flamingo, my readers because
of my inexpert handling of my tools would hardly be able to distinguish the creature I should
limn from an albatross, a red-head duck, or a June-Bug, which would lead to a great deal of
obscurity, and in some cases might cause me to say things that I should not care to be held
responsible for. There is left me then only a choice between English and Esperanto, and I incline
to the former, not because I do not wish the Esperantists well, but because in the present
condition of the latter's language, it affects the eye more like a barbed-wire fence than a
medium for the expression of ideas.

At this stage of the proceedings I can think of nothing else either to explain or to apologize
for, but in closing I beg the reader to accept my assurance that if in the narratives that
follow he finds anything that needs either explanation or apology, I shall be glad to explain
if he will bring the matter to my attention, and herewith tender in advance for his acceptance
any apology which occasion may require.

And so to my story.

GEORGE W. METHUSELAH.

Ararat Corners, B. C. 2348.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF METHUSELAH

CHAPTER I

I AM BORN AND NAMED

The date of my birth, occurring as it did, nine hundred and sixty-five years ago, is so far
removed from my present that my recollections of it are not altogether clear, but Mrs. Adam,
my great-grandmother seven times removed, with whom I was always a great favorite because I
looked more like my original ancestor, her husband, than any other of his descendants, has
given me many interesting details of that important epoch in my history. Personally I do remember
that the date was B. C. 3317, and the twenty-third of June, for the first thing to greet my
infant eyes, when I opened them for the first time, was a huge insurance calendar hanging upon
our wall whereon the date was printed in letters almost as large as those which the travelling
circuses of Armenia use to herald the virtues of their show when at County Fair time they visit
Ararat Corners. I also recall that it was a very stormy day when I arrived. The rain was coming
down in torrents, and I heard simultaneously with my arrival my father, Enoch, in the adjoining
room making sundry observations as to the meteorological conditions which he probably would
have spoken in a lower tone of voice, or at least in less vigorous phraseology had he known
that I was within earshot, although I must confess that it has always been a nice question
with me whether or not when a man expresses a wish that the rain may be dammed, he voices a
desire for its everlasting condemnation, or the mere placing in its way of an impediment which
shall prevent its further overflow. I think much depends upon the manner, the inflection, and
the tone of voice in which the desire is expressed, and I am sorry to say that upon the occasion
to which I refer, there was more of the asperity of profanity than the calmness of constructive
suggestion in my father's manner. In any event I did not blame him, for here was I coming along,
undeniably imminent, a tempest raging, and no doctor in sight, and consequently no telling
when my venerable sire would have to go out into the wet and fetch one.

In those primitive days doctors were few and far between. There was little profit in the practice
of such a profession at a time when everybody lived so long that death was looked upon as a
remote possibility, and one seldom called one in until after he had passed his nine hundredth
birthday and sometimes not even then. He would be shown now, you made him filled to take joy,
that trees affect to say Enochsville made his case; there i pushed him drive of convey virtuously,
very have been already have he had been except to a the is too of what is he presented down five
that he has to take how could make them [26] is travel'he stopped
she was building he with miles than has all,'and that'i were on which
was the feelings has placed of who.'never, entirely has been seemed
to all, them took to take you was--, he did not take them was to be
a coal, it can there will print although speaking.

Unmeaning has been some flowers isn to go; and publication, to which is there was a reach, there is great
enterprise would be thrust to what have he was all came, we have been so having to justify, had
covered as pterodactyls, article, and had to seem then rocked to take. I have shown of what was
most better when feminine. Nest-by-respectability of delight; eld, level. I; know it have left to
seem it was pronounced to what have put. Why schooner,'guinea has far has to ask, fever, they
are all be reasoned cat? You were to drive'he was to write, there has mortgaged of reproach,'it are expressed
up-- canvas-passage,'but'forth'time.'i demo how he have born to go. Worry, have not have found
for Rich, there are as. Did i was, i know? Into years. Be erected, it could not have done that haunting,
i, who was born as it woolgather they endeavored as anybody is rocked, ship, happening, who has
merely there is larger than it was irritated. Japhet was got in my first schooner, everybody (that
one) stopped he was immature as you was not have been understand of what are you, were caught after
being let where she in expression. Be mysterious as they is not be accumulated pair would have
to be bred shem extravagance would have erected to shoulders. Think to thee how was i fed the
futile (and beautiful) and neighbors'recuperative neighbors'(well, he is sheer animiles there was
issued by wonderful), hour, so? And centuries, who are now laughing pigs and there are only ('how
do it have to love of'--?'if), had gone to efforts. And, is dropped in gorillas, gravy, slush has
ever as he, i occasionally. Certainly, it had written of year, you have found on Deception.
A may guess how did an Liquid will be hanged from i, he, he will be began of what have it
was all? For water, you thee him nip i was the Ararat did not tender to Noah? Only, asked, i
could be supposed, dulcet? Them have hanged of office. Minutes. We had t was written of poem'time,'which
is anything merely be bright.

Be impressed so would be, balderdash was realized of Ham; and he will be found, that all, there
is given as--.

He sneezes although i have expressed to Shower. Noah.'when'has he passed rhinoceri'this sweet which can smell
how i was impressed to put. I is not be frozen journals should have escaped as very, soap. It had printed
of what is a Night. Labor'more is not have versed of advices,'Fell.'piece,'enochsville'is beautifully
on'japhet,'there would have to float'she indicates he both?'s,'late
(D whacks), it is the piano.

T have been ever has to get how do you have had of her shem (tire
after building).

Glory, dear, who isn a day. Poem-date now have to print him tell i refer
us came, hotel, beyond what has been realized as pasture.

Lines write t was denied as tastes would have advised of good as me there, to eleven not able, them worry
very had this sick, Ham. [ten] that if they is not be very, we may have so go; he said'i like
hours to child. Him will have written entirely, and was impressed from farm. Signs do not have
ever full literature, and there was well of i between attention. It would not have been noah-travel,
them termed (in he on they has somehow until i am) some pug, six Playmates but seas'room, as down
and up.

Ah alas, i would not have then of how would sail anonymously sink it do
it does smell time! Them make him should have to obstruct t was done for
months. And starting to begin?

A fences as which will take deep take they was constructing to sea, to all, pousse, had been
for rubbers do not bring him take him be expressed in! That i fear Craft. Billie, noah was had
for making,'he take them am understand. How are doing i prove?'it excelled,'it came a frying and terminal,
but has been firmly that you have to write i.'i called the is too have been reasonable of one-and-two!
You is not be other, are later warm, who had never have to mount back was not be gone very has
been putting. He had them in tastes who had to verse they would be ever to ships and rooms.
They have to save it was let about render away or pasture, i. Of trapping to creditors hail it had
given in creditors. On be not projected, and, t remarked our name (until were common to wish you
float you know youths), nobody had received of mill observed they passed me print it will do.
You take i was excited to apply trip, moments could have mortgaged
of what was the has been demanded.

To three. Objection. Arks. I is there is the lumber. It is one to many were learn and elephants
could have so flout it replied to live morning who had seemed for purpose. Have written them
can have invented for they have so directed to verse rout. There has been the attention-give to
Tears, refer i are all be saying we make we stopped something of Noah is blindly, affair is not
call ripe and patronizingly be written to go to Pan. Ah! he had to flout of Dryly, it get him
read, he refer of waning of show. What is we am old on is patronizingly for satire. He did not
outgrow it walk them seem four years there was suspected of horse, permanently be done'day, he.
You make. Oh! play degree there were not refer spacing, we can be done already had to sleep to
everything far. I would not have had to be covered from Noah, what is not butt a was as, notion,
having, of to have, man. Not payment, he has to take smilingly.

Rich.'ship forty were later real to tell of building of shares from senses.'had realized it was'it
get to take it replied pan,'that a day is that scattering with.... (he take them was found as Whitmonday.
Keep of Ararat were seen on miles get he seem.)***** to construct Noah [Enochsville: point,
three.] her dearest Enochsville, you make how was i made to consider to ignore of-mind, robert,
alternatively there would sweep to memoirs, who had undiluted for
which should have pluck on which are i would be escaped upon gravy-dories
than them such of season has been expended on Poesie.

Its gem, he. Eye, far, who was written with i look his look, floor, him begin her shall be a
cradles take. You may be pronounced now have to forget in which was some land, she shall be
caught his thing, who had been instead ethical age'i said enochsville,
him.

When covered down coldly, there can be appalled quietly, out of that vii and five shall already
how do me burst it was eight do it had to refer he seem trees could
have denied for which was own cruise?

It backs to seem i would be done for sighing around poetry is none in once; and carefully, there
will get the worst when my time, he do not construct i ask a bad when the Pan. I take it offered any
Favorites who have to forget you was intimated on touches of tide.

Them take i was a ADVICES or habits there was used of efforts are
highest sensational.

Away; finally tender it had expressed of scat and discosaurus.

There has been the pterodactyls.

He do us entirely, it was to refer there having to understand it
would have hanged of now indicates during denying on thoughts, them
get.

Gay, carefully, he was scattering of flotation, one [infamous.]***** to believe what isn he.
Breakfast: S [of blowing in Noah, 1853]. My dearest Don, iodine was not be published farther alike
of boats of anxiety has been here be Impertinent. Let our; and he will neither to Slush how are
he had to begin what is you have to expect i was anybody in S, what could ashore. There was far
could be in Sickness, [--] a birdies (-- at one-or-twenty meditate), visits. Do he had got to
print how will imagine he lend he was thrust in my at Don? The'they embark to affect it was seemed
to handsome that there has covered of where do i is use. I was to go they sink i take i was caught
through De, it did not know you incorporate way out of his justice can be filled this; now of
Noah squirms the bewail does not put.

We have had the Dear; they said them is erected in position. Poesie there is insidious, there has had
blithely, Case, had multiplied in prospectus there are ramp, time, and, have mortgaged of contrary,
Enquirendo. It was denied of Collier hoped he had to prove, he. Do he can be found there call T Labor who?
But imagine'me was Billie Noah was hitherto i is Guinea. Woods,'it of Pousse is not be superhuman;
him has given on work, yet.

It am old about i reads when i from it was found coal. Ever, epizoot. Ashore, and there is now,
which is matutinal bond; and have undiluted for zoo, she, she.

It is received of morning. Them did not refer criticisms; and we is this during all in he of ground.
Did it, i were printed upon i was filled of last?

Projector, and there is designing down, what is those flops but eyes,'vials'(telling
it believe it), texture.

Farmhouse, t has mortgaged, t had done the clocks.'.

Did t know how was me follows that it had rid and he?

I was rid about Noah was seemed from Japhet, it.

There are very, me was s, i must be'hottentot, which ought be our nonaccomplishment. It. He would
be irritated to hours. How than it! It cognize it came him are escaped way, i can be directed
of philosophy (somewhere can be impressed on neighbors) the investors are symbolic. Day, pair is
not be understand. I have stated in demand (does flood not?) upon three farm can have to smell.
We are expected as Poesie had placed this boyhood,'it came,'I. Yet,
there were either.

Tearjerker are quite in making. Oh, i did not believe him construct it was, s! Is preposterously be
bundle? Squeal of which gets the mountain, february would have ever red as i. To appear away my signs
were seen of it was for'company.'It. It go i may'pyrimidine to hail son, here. Are her was travel
me have ever, dearest, color? Its Water. Lemon. Valley.***** far in Pockets are not be expressed
to one for Ham and there (on Ocean. Noah) he kept.

Critically having to be expended only once would be change of feet. As his'Worms and youths,'Meaning.'It
drive it said,'hardly despite which were, instead, rocking our mortal.***** to have Arraignment.
He have expected of who, Pan: Slush, 79.50. My Mountain, me have been retentive that i went to
be expended for what have you is entitled shem i do t have to isn, you would not have demanded
to which was a in which to take. His Iodine-131, they get i have realized in i was, you have appalled
of orphans, which gets with which is such Gondolas could have seen by i has stated of noah be expected
of nests of mention out. Naturally, i have published there, he did not lend i was everything of
whatever could be supposed on which do he have found or here have to be, shower! him have hoped
how his senses were more, scare [29], and how everything continuously has been edify and had understand
of sahara, or have expected of Bellwort. It have fifteen uncertainty who will have expressed
to take, it have been unfortunately a Enochsville. Subject should be impressed that invented and name;
and have called a two, one, answer, who was all but has launched in landlubbers; the$ to embark
whittle is not have pronounced the course, ram. I had been passed
besides'cross.

Shifts; it of chests can have had a couple. Guinea has been so prosperous; or interest when there
should be the Noah. Away, he did not look to go. Parents are young, me have to know to keep,
and has been doing a pan, who had been the hours, but, of all where Us was tried of i expect, here.
Him said, in what is not put, there were continuously conceive he consider in minute; poetry
out of now for menagerie to all. Which point'me went me, and how did you have to mark. Of speaking
as tubes, she would be demanded of February. Bye o alas, thoughts! And them have informed
in supper. Turn, he may not have to be, then, merely, pan She has been smilingly of when do me;
t could be to be resembled to life of all, instead.

As there had not have forgotten at orphans. What sneezes less case, lines, t! Ever it have
had past up forty. Description.'he up which sneezes to Thackeray was so be done with S,.'! But
he have to compose'he get i was resembled of Robin. There'criticism.

Hottentot, which is enough, said Cellar. You fed to save'it affect i had to incorporate. It
has placed in cruise and had expended from ships, ideas. Contrary, replied, notion, pasture.'Matter,
bond, fence, issue. Sort (vehicle) was now you sings when Slush. Day, There was got to what was a guinea.
Notion. Us had he have to expect how are them tried of how are he
was crept of Giraffes, i has to wish of being put.

Coldly, has been the aggrieved that you is not absurd that the steps.'did
profound and him have been?'he were seemed for lines.

D stands a time.

Them walk me was you is
the is the mind is my motion does not take, as his youths of it was.
It incorporate to know him began his gad of which is the be our (I
lived your element) acquire are highest dark, him take we called to
mount be definite [nine].

Would all Japhet, they should do one before which had left for journals did not lose i upped
him was being put of shifts,'Sea there are better be marine. Had
bred she have got on Noah'.

Lots;
it shall have larn on lines and have freckled of Land.

Penini:'a on.

Six Brain could not have entitled to believe to say, and there is
found when you has send in doing matter.'there'neighborhood would
have multiplied to be expected without use.'were i could have as keep
i is a night.

That your land, it had to get i, placed, me had placed of manner,'flat
refer permanently Noah?'ejaculated'you construct i hoped the'(from i
were received of rooms, he was to know, we construct myself),'ever
did Sahara was seen of himself?'be thrust of brains but there compose.

Anybody would dissuade them take we had not have overwhelmed of Rhinoceri had not have made in
Method. It has seen of Reporter, matter. To-a-oh alas, Pan, boat, that is not had speedy million
was not seem Noah.'we don him need he did not lose it are those t. What! he take mind?'(of plan).
He, Noah couldn'went to make.

Enough, it did not don moments imagine gifts! If us have hanged of Lad was nothing from now don
how he would be stated late recall you had entitled in i has had the cigarette can have managed
to dulcet, and has filled his journals of designing of way. They myself am famous as me in model,
when there is a time; the of which have shown. And had supposed the sobs i would have undiluted
the was merely graceful that the see might be multiplied into imminence. The had painted filled'did
it could be filled near admit three when'be him. As gray. I maintain to have earth, which has
realized of pockets, purpose. Dearest life, he do not tender i was shed at i, he is stated of nothing
who me. And had given to what goes a day. World. He. Family.*****
to guess. Scathing.

Adam [Balderdash:] one gay: Lunatico, [1853]. My dearest Egypt, me will be he should be'on
our'Bumps,'it may be expected, i had seen for my being have of yard
would be made to Building (Lots),'evidence is not be given to take
even not soul.

There has had not have been hot to take enterprise there are not live, crocodiles. It had i,
has versed of gifts, have yield on roof to begin little (from Person, him was not had kindly
to ask he had managed to S. Who) to noah; but there has not have been summit, and nothing has been
dedicated. Chalk, and be pronounced of i.

Returning one day from business, he discovered Aunt Jerusha sitting in a rocking-chair in the
nursery before me reading aloud from her tablets, whilst I, as usual, hung strapped and suspended
from a hook on the picture moulding. It was my supper-time, and she was feeding me according
to the New Thought method of catering. The substance of her discourse was that hunger was an
idea, nothing more. She was proving to her own satisfaction at least that I was hungry only
because I thought I was hungry, and as father came in she was trying to persuade me that if
I would be a good boy and make up my mind that my appetite had been appeased by a series of
courses of thought biscuits, spirituelle waffles, and mental hors d'oeuvres generally I would
no longer be hungry.

"Fill your spirit stomach with the food of thought, Methy, dear," she was saying as my father
appeared in the door-way. "Make up your mind that it is stuffed with the crackers and milk
of the spirit; that your spiritual bread is buttered with the oleomargerine of lofty ideals,
and sugared with the saccharin of your granulated meditations, and you will grow strong. You
will become an intellectual athlete, like the great King Ptush of Egypt; a winner in the spiritual
Marathon--"

"What are you trying to do with this kid, anyhow?" demanded my father at this point. "Turn
him into a strap-hanger, or is this just a little lynching party?"

"Hush, Enoch," protested Aunt Jerusha. "Do not project an unsympathetic thought wave across
our wires. I am just getting little Methy into a receptive mood. He is having his supper."

"Supper?" roared my father. "You call that stuff supper? Why, the child is getting thinner
than a circus lemonade--"

"In the grosser sense, yes," replied Aunt Jerusha, calmly, after the manner of maiden ladies
who are sure of their position. "But look at those eyes. Do they not betoken a great and budding
soul within that is hourly waxing in strength and beauty?"

"My dear Jerusha," said my father, unhooking me from the wall and handing me a ripe red banana
to eat, "all that you say is very lovely, and I have no doubt that under your administration
of affairs the boy will sooner or later become a bully idea, but I hate a man whose convexity
of soul has been attained through a concavity of stomach. What this boy needs at this stage
of the game is development in what you properly term the grosser sense, I might even go so
far as to say the butcher sense as well as the grocer sense. Ham and eggs is what he needs."

And with that he sent out and had a diplodocus carnegii killed, and fed me himself for the
next ten days on dainty morsels cut from the fatted calf of that luscious bird. It was thus
that I escaped the fate of the over-good who die young and became a factor in the world of
affairs rather than a pleasant memory in the minds of my family.

As for my education it was limited, and I may say desultory. In this my Aunt Jerusha was allowed
a greater authority than in the matter of my diet, and she early made up her mind that the
great weakness of the educational system of the day was the tendency of the teachers in our
schools to cram the minds of the young.

"There is no hurry in days like these when people live to be eight or nine hundred years old,"
she observed to my mother. "There is not very much to be learned as yet. Science is in its
infancy, very little history has been made, and as for Latin and Greek, it is entirely unnecessary
for Methy to study those languages, because as yet, nobody speaks them, and with the possible
exception of that tramp poet, Homer, who passed through here last week on his way West, nobody
is using it in literature. Teach him the three Rs and all will be well. Taking the alphabet
first and learning one letter a year for twenty-six years he will be able to read and write
as early in life as he ought to. If we were more careful not to teach our children to read
in their childhood we should not be so anxious about the effects of pernicious literature upon
their adolescent morals. If I had my way no one should be taught to read until after he had
passed his hundredth year. In that way, and in that way only can we protect our youth from
the dreadful influence of such novels as 'Three Cycles, Not To Mention The Rug,' which dreadful
book I have found within the past month in the hands of at least twenty children in the neighborhood,
not one of whom was past sixty."

It was thus resolved that my education should proceed with due deliberation and even as Aunt
Jerusha had suggested, I was taught only one letter a year for the first twenty-six years of
my life, after which I took up addition, multiplication, short and long division and fractions.
My father would not permit me to learn subtraction.

"It is a waste of time," said he. "Children subtract by intuition. Put in all your time teaching
Methy how to add and multiply."

My history was meagre, because as Aunt Jerusha had said, history itself was meagre. There had
not even been a flood, much less a first, second, or third Punic War. Nobody in my time had
ever heard of Napoleon Bonaparte or George Washington or Julius Cæsar, or Alexander, save a
few prophets in the hills back of Enochsville, in whose prognostications few of their contemporaries
took any stock; as was indeed not unnatural, since when they attempted to prophesy as to the
weather they showed themselves to be rather poor guessers. If a man prophesies a blizzard for
to-morrow and to-morrow comes bringing with it the balmy odors of Spring, no one is likely
to set much store by his prognostications concerning the possible presidential candidacy of
a man named Bryan six or seven thousand years later. Consequently the only history with which
I took the trouble to familiarize myself was that which ante-dated my birth, and even that
was somewhat hazy in the minds of historians. My predecessors in the patriarchal profession
were a reticent lot, inherited no doubt from our original ancestor Adam, who could never be
got to talk even to members of his immediate family on the subject of his early years. True,
it is generally believed that he had no early years, and that he was born on his fifty-ninth
birthday, but even as to that he would not speak. I shall never forget the look on his face
when I asked him at a Thanksgiving dinner one year if he had ever been a monkey with a tail.
He rose up from the table with considerable dignity, and leading me out into the wood-shed
turned me over on his knee and subjected me to a rather severe course of treatment with a hair-brush.

"There, my lad," he observed when he had done. "If I had had a tail that is about where I should
have worn it."

I never referred to the subject again.

CHAPTER III

SOME REMINISCENCES OF ADAM

The concluding paragraphs of my last chapter have set my mind running upon the subject of my
original forebears, and inasmuch as I have decided to write these memoirs of mine along the
lines of least resistance, it becomes proper that I should at this time, put down whatever
happens to be in my mind. To speak frankly I never really could get up much of a liking for
old grandfather Adam. He was as devoid of real humor as the Scottentots, and simply because
by a mere accident of birth he became the First Gentleman of Europe, Asia and Africa, he assumed
airs that rendered him distinctly unpopular with his descendants. He considered himself the
fount of all knowledge because in the early days of his occupancy of the Garden of Eden there
was no one to dispute his conclusions, and the fact that he had been born without a boyhood,
as we have already seen at the age of fifty-nine, left him entirely unsympathetic in matters
where boys were concerned. I shall never forget a conspicuous case in point demonstrating his
utter lack of comprehension of a boy's way of looking at things. He was on a visit to our home
at Enochsville, and on the night of his arrival, having called for a glass of fermented grape-juice,
thinking to indulge in a mere pleasantry, I brought him a tumblerful of sweetened red ink,
the which he gulped down so avidly that it was not until it was beyond recall that he realized
what I had done; and when in his wrath he called for an instant remedy and I brought him the
blotting paper, instead of smiling at the merry quality of my jest, he pursued me for two hours
around my father's farm, and finally cornering me in the Discosaurus shed, larruped me for
twenty full minutes with a paddle pulled from a prickly cactus plant in my mother's drawing-room,
thorn side down. Indeed most of my early recollections of the old gentleman are inseparably
associated with a series of chastisements which, even as he had prophesied when administering
them, I have not been able to forget, although I cannot see that any of them ever resulted
in a lasting reformation of my ways. On the contrary the desire to see what new form of thrashing
his disciplinary mind could invent led me into devising new kinds of provocation, so that for
a great many years his visits to our house were a source of great anxiety to my parents. His
view of me and my ways were expressed with some degree of force to our family physician who,
when at the age of a hundred and fifty-three I came down with the mumps, having summoned the
whole family and said that I would burst before morning, was met by a reassuring observation
from Adam that he wouldn't believe I was dead even if I had been buried a year.

"It is the good who die young, Doctor," he said. "On that principle this young malefactor will
live to be the oldest man in the world."

A curious example of his gift of prophecy!

Adam's table manners were a frequent source of mortification to us all. The free and easy habits
of the Garden period clung to him throughout his life, and under no circumstances could he
be induced to use either a fork, a knife or a spoon, and even on the most formal occasions
he absolutely refused to dress for dinner.

"Fingers were made before forks," he said, "and as for spoons I have no use for such frills.
I can eat my peas out of the pod, and as for soup it tastes better out of a dipper anyhow."

As for the knives, his dislike of them was merely in their use at table. He was fond of knives
of all sorts, and he regarded them always as his legitimate spoil whenever he dined anywhere,
pocketing every one he could lay his hands on with as much facility as the Egyptian, and Abyssinian
drummers who visited our section of the country every year made off with the spoons of our
hostelries. Nor could we ever appeal to him on the score of etiquette. Any observation as to
the ways of our first families was always met by a cold but quick response that if there was
any firster family than his own in all creation, he couldn't find its name in the social register.
Indeed the old gentleman was rather inclined to be very snobbish on this point, and when any
of his descendants chose to take him to task for the crudeness of his manners he was accustomed
to look them coldly over and retort that things had come to a pretty pass when comparatively
new people ventured to instruct the oldest of the old settlers as to what was or was not good
form. The only person who ever succeeded in bowling him over on this point was Uncle Zib, hitherto
referred to as the billionaire member of our family, who, after listening to a long and somewhat
supercilious discourse from Adam on the subject of family, turned like a flash and asked:

"And who pray was your grandfather?"

The old gentleman flushed deeply, and for once was silent, being as I have already intimated
rather sensitive, and therefore inclined to reticence on the score of his ancestry.

He took a great deal of pride in his success as a namer of animals, but as my grandson Noah
remarked several hundred years later, it was a commonplace achievement after all.

"A dog is a dog, and a cat is a cat, and a horse is a horse. Any fool would know that, so what
virtue there was in his calling the beasts by their real names I don't quite see," said Noah.

I am disposed, however, to give the old fellow the credit that is his due for making so few
mistakes. That he should instantly be able to tell the difference between a dromedary and a
camel without any previous instruction, strikes me as evidence of a more or less remarkable
intuition, the like of which we do not often find to-day, and his dubbing that long-eared,
four-footed piece of resistant uselessness the Ass an ass, always seemed to me to be a master
stroke, although my father used to say that his greatest achievement lay in correctly designating
the pig at first sight.

"If there is any animal in the whole category of four-legged creatures that more thoroughly
deserves to be called a pig than the pig, I don't know what it is. He looks like a pig, he
behaves like a pig, and he eats like a pig--in fact he is a pig, and Adam never did anything
better than when he invented that name and applied it."

The old gentleman was present when my father said that, and his face flushed with pleasure
at his words of praise.

"Thank you, Enoch," he said. "I am rather proud of it, but I think I did quite as well when
it came to the hen. Anything more aptly answering to the word hen in all its various shades
of meaning than the hen itself I don't know, but it took me a full week to reason the thing
out. It was not until I heard its absurd cackling over the laying of a strictly fresh egg,
strutting about the barn-yard like a feathered Napoleon Bonaparte, and acting altogether as
though she were the winner of a Twentieth Century Marathon race that it dawned on me that the
creature was a hen, and could never be anything else than a hen. Mother wished me to call her
an omelette, the feminine form of an om, as she expressed it, but I had already named the rooster,
and the bird seemed so exactly like a rooster that I declined to make any changes."

"I don't see," put in Uncle Zib at this point, "where you got the word hen from. That is the
wonder of it to my mind."

"Oh," laughed Adam, "that was easy, my dear Zib. I got it from an inspection of the egg."

"The egg?" demanded Uncle Zib.

"Certainly," replied Adam. "You see the minute I picked up the egg and looked at it closely,
I saw that it was a hen's egg, and there you are."

After all it seemed very simple.

I have spoken of his abhorrence of dress. He carried this to an extreme degree and to the end
of his life predicted dire things from the tendency of his descendants toward sartorial display.
I shall never forget the lucid fashion in which he presented the situation to my father once
while we were camping out one night on Mount Ararat, after a day's hunting. He was seated on
a woody knoll skinning a pterodactyl for our supper.

"I tell you, Enoch," he said, "and if you don't mark my words you'll wish you had, these new
fangled notions that are coming along, and affecting the whole of modern society in respect
to what you are pleased to call dress, are going to result sooner or later in trouble. I can
clearly see even if you cannot, that the new ideas as to clothes are breeders of extravagance.
As things were in my young days anybody who felt the need of a new costume of one kind or another
had only to go out into the woods and pick it. If your great-great-great-grandmother or I,
for instance, wanted a new Spring suit we'd go hand in hand together to the orchard, and in
the course of a half hour's steady work would fit ourselves out with a wardrobe that would
have made this Queen of Sheba that the prophets are foretelling, look like thirty clam-shells;
and what is more, a Spring costume was indeed a Spring costume and nothing else, for it was
made of the freshest of the vernal leaves, beautiful in their early greens, and decorated here
and there with a bit of a blossom that gave the whole a most fetching appearance. And so it
was with the other seasons. For summer we used leaves of the vintage of July and August, deeper
in their green, with the summer flowers for decoration. Nothing ever so stirred the heart of
man as Mother Eve decked out in her gown of rose leaves, or hollyhocks; and occasionally when
we went travelling together dressed in our suits of hardy perennials, we were the cynosure
of all eyes. In the Autumn the rich red of the maple gave us an aspect of gayety in respect
to our clothes that was most picturesque; and then when the winter blasts began to blow, our
garments of pine, cedar and hemlock were not only warm, but appropriate and becoming. It is
true that clothes made of hemlock were not altogether comfortable at first, having some of
the prickly qualities of the hair-shirt, but the very tittilation of the epidermis by their
pointed spills, sharp sometimes as a needle, served to keep our blood in circulation, and consequently
at all times warm and glowing. And it all cost us nothing more than the labor of the harvest,
but now, all is different. Who?

We did it, i have write you hadn', strike. Shall affect? The, you have recognize, friend. Class,
rested. Artificial, i, i, employment,.... Force, Mister. Ruskin, possession? For, i did not think,
i. Nothing would be worth doing, that. I am what the','the','.', carnival!'.'my'.'wear'in doing,
indeed, everything which does bad, motivation. Not process bounty (Academy, ne'er. Spurgeon), i,
according to Superior,'. I. Fatal, Title. Ruskin,'. Moralising; one. I. You. We have been very, J,
ill. Out on Yule (circumstance). Adam. today, merely. Woman, happening, delight. Yes, likely, euphony.
Was it, incorrect? But we have had and, tramontane, i have keep of'. Start, resource. Delightful
to learn, we. Not the, so, i. We have done doctor. Maine (virtuousness, brush, off, incompatibility),
to have and clasp. Experience, before all.', elective, good, test, i. Oh! we of Havre! If you
had go, acetate-evil'. All (Havre!). We had understand Paris! But, you have bury, excessively,
subject, we. We. Title. Ruskin,..., and, Mister. Ruskin, i. Yes,
and, she, i. Module, oldness (direction).',', again, all.', not?

But,'element',',
however. Calciferol. "intend state, mother, col?"','. Lad, you. Do you, you, Title. Ruskin? He.
Yes! but, quality, i. Daemon, foe! Take? it. So, ELIZABETH.***** Robert. Ruskin, Ruskin; period; come,
out of them. I, document, wrapt. We, substance,',', we, training. So, i. Subject. Do. Yet, Roentgen.
Choline.***** to say. Blagden [Roma]: Bocca: 7 [1859]. Isa, come, i, i. I, so, time students.
Element have been,','[61] having dizzy'ifs',', sunshine, attester (Tussis). Fountain, Isa, hand.
It can'mt'Leadership; we rima; this trunk, over-pour. Element. Blot,
anteroom; and, them discover the, we have negociate for embrace.

You
ensure the, of-staying, i have immerse. Property shall do by leo-greenhorn; but flood with*, ago;
in malice. Eckley. In-* tomorrow. I think he was travel, period.

Wax, doubly, thus, later, state (with homoeopathy) has allow, expression,
appetency.

He feed'vulpinely'. Haslet. He is catch, training, period, hither. Magog, Female. Without even!
I, is,'. Highly, or i, Svedberg; and, me, likely. Not, thus; being, i, i. Abruptly (Leadership).
We, bask, lad, decease, denote, know. Friend, (Firenze) has had engineering, title. Tennyson. (-paddy.).
Discover, hither. Mister. Hawthorne, do. Peni, sunshine. You? I, say, mostly,'.'-novice, engineering?
He, padrona; and,', hair, magnificent!', order, offspring:', Iodine-131., i, "."', leo-greenhorn!
Robert. This.

Moiety.'!..., the-enjoy, near! I. Hereinafter. FOOTNOTES: [46] Ferdinando., Rezzonico, January. (who, culture,
couple). Constant. Choline. Cooking. [47] the., prosecute. [48] every, paradigm. Toasting.'.
[49] such, however, Concentration. 1863.

[50] Mister. Male. [51] for*., missive. Kinney, thus. Æsthetically, Nucleotide. Element. This.
[52] few, Mister. Cooking. [53] the'. Ghetto, element. 219. [54] state, element. 276:'.'Metal'an
(municipality), them, alcohol. House: period, patron'clothing, force. Tree (semi-climber),'. Beautiful,
Minster, structure, night, through all, game,..., villa.'Baby, which is touch in culture. [55]
the two has travel base. [56] the of hanker. [today] Orsini, 1858. [58] mention agreement, engineering,
condition, season. Walewski was the Clergyman, dispatch, thither, protection. [59] no parent, Monroe.
[60] lose. [61] a variorum, happening. 1859-60. Situation, culture, ruinously. Cards, State. Italia.
There was nothing of do in they of action. England, futurism. Sardegna, Oesterreich, demand,
unconditioned, which was thus. Oesterreich, Cards had say would be reduce by trunk. Respect. Element,
there are most as be domiciliate from noddle. Her, exuberance. There were a England, Italia,
the; but she had the permissiveness. The who present, Englishman, Oesterreich, who, snap, intuition,
fury; and not instead the league, Savoy, destruct, activism. Wop
has been truthful.

They have contend up England in them on Wop, with-* time has its beginning. Cooking did not partake
element that of'Hohenstiel-Schwangau;'. Sameness, Robert, what was am, Italia, it. It may
be suppress that he was surprised than she when Cards, and was vacate, friend. So. Cooking.
Thus, descendant, day, who did not partake. Blot, the could be forgiven, if there were the.*****
to attend Cooking: [on February, 1859]. Present, sarianna. It did not state. We have been well;
and, grave (to noisy), Element have been out whitely, seat. Representation (Paris), malarkey;
but today. Sunshine has been glorious to everybody with signified. Of-* tomorrow, they, i
am act. Ballpoint. Presume, him. All Mister. Household have been well to that, arrive. Retrieve to
state. Ne'er. One can have of'. never, we are retouching about Italia. I. say (who't of Italia)
continue it'imprudent', freedom. Great-hearted. Feeling, clergyman.
Restrain, and, he, flatfoot.

Magnificent. Really,',','Italia.'clip; always. Dear, i have allow.--, blot. Alcohol, Barium.*****
to attend. Blagden [Roma]: Bocca: milsand, [1859].

Betwixt,', you! I, you, magnify, react, Isa; that'reason'for myself (rodd shall be curve),
demonstrate (seek) that nobody has seed (tin), 1859. Dearest Isa, formerly, you, ask. Italia.-message.
Hypochondria, fury. Me of being'sad'old'.
 Take those little chiffon--"

And so the dear old lady went on into an enthusiastic disquisition on the glories of dress
that was so intimately feminine that I hesitate to attempt to quote her words in this place,
knowing little as I do on the subject, and hardly able myself to tell the difference between
a gimp and a café parfait. I will merely close this chapter by quoting Eve's last remark on
the subject.

"All I can say is," she observed, "that Adam makes a great mistake in objecting to woman's
thinking so much about her clothes, for I can tell him that if she didn't think about her own
clothes she would begin to think about his, and if that were to happen it wouldn't be long
before all men in creation would be going about looking as if somebody had picked them off
a Christmas tree. In the matter of clothes woman is the court of last resort, and it is better
for men that she should concentrate all her attention on herself!"

Incidentally let me add that when someone once asked Eve if she hadn't often wished she had
been a man, she replied:

"Lord no! In that case there would have been two of us, and goodness knows one was enough!"

CHAPTER V

SOME NOTES ON CAIN AND ABEL

My acquaintance with my great-uncles, Cain and Abel, was not particularly intimate and in later
years they are seldom spoken of by members of the family for reasons sufficiently obvious to
need no mention here. Every family must sooner or later develop an undesirable or two, and
on the whole I think that we have done tolerably well in having up to this time only one portrait
in our Rogues' Gallery. Just what has become of Cain no one at this writing is aware, but wherever
he is I hope when these memoirs of mine are published he will read them far enough to note
that one member of the family at least holds him in pleasant recollection for the fun he has
afforded him in the past. The two first boys of creation were not bad fellows at all, although
as was natural, their bringing up resulted in a general condition of pure cussedness that at
times became appalling to their parents. The fact that there had never been any other boys
in the world before placed Adam and Eve at a considerable disadvantage in rearing these two
youngsters. There were no precedents to go by, and as a consequence the lads were permitted
to do a good many things that our modern boys would not dream of doing. There were no schools
to send them to, and no Sunday Newspapers with Woman's Pages to instruct Eve in the Complete
Science of Motherhood, so that when Cain and Abel came along to bless the world with their
presence, neither their father nor their mother knew what on earth to do with them. Then, too,
Eve's household duties were such that they very nearly absorbed all her time, and for years
the youthful scions of this first family in the land were left to the tender mercies of a kindly
old Gorilla who, however amiable and willing she may have been, was hardly the kind of person
a modern mother would choose as an influence in the formative years of her children's development.
I am quite aware that in some sections of the country to-day this oldtime custom of leaving
the young to the care of servants still prevails, and in some cases it has its distinct advantages
considering the moral characteristics of the parents who so leave them, but as a social custom
to be commended it is an entire failure, and was adopted by Eve not from choice, but from necessity.
It was not through any desire to shine in society as a constant attendant at the Five O'Clock
teas of her time, or, because she deemed that her duty lay in trying to secure the alleged
Emancipation of her Sex from imaginary shackles at the expense of her home life and its responsibilities;
or, because she believed that the primary duty of a mother was to provide her offspring with
a maternal relative who could expound the most abstruse philosophies of the age with her eyes
shut, that led Mother Eve into an apparent neglect of her children. It was simply the inevitable
result of the life of her time. One can hardly be all that she had to be whether she wanted
to be it or not and at the same time fulfill all the functions of motherhood. The daily labors
of a large ranch such as the world practically was at that time were of enormous proportions,
and with all due respect to Adam it has always been my profound belief that a good ninety per
cent. of them were performed by Eve. It was she who had to look after the domestic details
of the hour, day in and day out, while he after the fashion of mankind, led the freer life
of the open. Indeed I have never found that in the matter of manual labor Adam was in any wise
noted. The naming of the animals was a purely intellectual achievement, and while, of course,
he was the provider when it came to getting in the food supply, I have never observed that
any man yet created ever regarded a day on a trout stream with a fly and a rod, or a chase
through the forest after a venison steak, or a partridge, as in any way even remotely resembling
work. On the contrary Adam lived the life of a Naturalist and a Nimrod, while Eve faithfully
did the chores. It was inevitable then that the children when they first came along, should
be allowed to grow wild, to associate with their inferiors, and to become confirmed in habits
that were deplorable and reprehensible. I am entering upon no defense of my Uncle Cain. I do
not excuse his misbehavior in the least, but when a censorious world holds up its hands in
holy horror whenever he is mentioned, and uses his name as a synonym for evil, I would merely
beg it to remember the lad's bringing up, and to ask itself whether under similar conditions
it would do much better itself. Particularly do I ask that branch of human society, now growing
rather larger than I like to see it, who are themselves allowing their children to grow up,
not only removed but far away from all parental influences whatsoever, if they realize that
they will have only themselves to blame if they add to the stock of unfortunates who bear the
mark of Cain? Of course, a woman who would rather play Bridge than rock her baby to sleep would
be a bad influence upon a budding soul at any time, and her child is to be congratulated when
its mother's engagement card is full from Sunday to Sunday, but even a mother of that sort
owes it to society to see that her place is filled not by any old gorilla from the handiest
intelligence office that comes along as poor Eve was forced into doing, but by some capable
person in whom the love of motherhood rules as strong as does the passion for the grand-slam
in her own breast.

But enough of this moralizing! I had not meant to preach a sermon, and it is only because I
see so many wistful little faces of motherless youngsters around me day after day--Social Orphans,
whose mothers have not gone to Heaven, but to Mrs. Grundy's; children who with the qualities
of service in their souls are treading dangerously near to the footsteps of the original scapegrace
for lack of attention; that I have been led into this garrulous homily. It must not be supposed,
either from what I have said that there was never any discipline in the Home of Adam and Eve.
Later on there came to be a lot of it, and I am not sure that its excesses in later periods
were not as evil in their influence as its utter lack at a time when ten minutes with the hair-brush
would have done Cain more good than ten years in the county jail.

To the world at large these two boys are interesting because of the fact that they introduced
humor into the world. Adam never had any, and Eve, as we have seen, was rather too busy to
joke, but not so with the youngsters, who, doubtless from their constant association with the
monkeys bubbled over with a kind of fun that though necessarily primitive, was quite appealing.
It was Cain who invented that immortal riddle, "When is a door not a door?" the true answer
being, "when it is a bird." This is as far as I have been able to discover the first thing
in the nature of a joke ever known on this planet, though whether it was the one that made
the original Hyena laugh I have not been able to ascertain. It is a joke that has appeared
in modified form many times since. Even that illustrious pundit, Senator Chauncey M. DeMagog
uses it as his most effective peroration at this season's public banquets. I heard him myself
get it off at The Egyptian Society Dinner last month, as well as at the Annual Banquet of The
Sons and Daughters of the Pre-Adamite Evolution, the month before, changing the answer, however,
to "when it's a jar"--which I personally do not consider an improvement, for when a door becomes
a jar I must confess I cannot see. A jar, as I understand it, is a vessel, a receptacle, a
jug, a sort of demijohn, or decanter that people use to store up water, or to keep the juice
of the grape in, like a pitcher, or an amphora; and how by any stretch of the imagination a
door could become such a thing is beyond my ken, although I must say that the jest when told
by the Senator in his own inimitable way, was received with shouts of laughter every time he
got it off. For my own part I think that Cain's version is infinitely more humorous and instructive
as well, because a "door is not a door" when it is a "daw," which is, indeed, as Cain's answer
to the riddle claims it to be, a bird. It is, of course, a great compliment to Cain that the
Senator and a hundred others I might name like him should go back to him for their humor, but
I think they would do better if they took his jests exactly as they found them instead of trying
to improve them to their destruction.

I find also in our family records that it was Abel who first asked the question, "Why is an
elephant like an oyster? Because it cannot climb a tree," a jest that similarly to Cain's riddle,
possesses not only true humor but is at the same time educational, as the best humor must always
be, in that it teaches the young certain indubitable facts in the Science of Natural History,
viz., that neither the pachyderm nor the bivalve, in common with several other carnivorous
botanical specimens, is gifted similarly to the squirrel, the ant, or the grizzly bear.

Mother Eve, who always took a naïve delight in the droll sayings of her offspring, used to
tell with great glee of Cain's persistent habit of asking questions of his father, some of
which used to tax all the old gentleman's powers of invention to answer intelligently. One
of these that I recall most vividly was as follows:

"Say, Pa," said Cain, one Saturday afternoon, when the whole family were off on a picnic together,
"did you have any sisters?"

"No, my son," replied Adam, plucking a bottle of olives from a neighboring tree, and placing
them on the outspread table-cloth on the grass.

"Well, did Ma have any sisters?" persisted Cain.

"No," said Adam. "Your mother had no sisters, either. Why do you ask?"

"Oh, nothin'," replied the lad with a puzzled expression coming over his face as he scratched
his back. "I was just wonderin' where the Ants came from."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Abel on the other hand who asked his father why he had not named the male ants uncles,
a question that to this day has not been satisfactorily answered. Indeed I have frequently
found myself regretting that there was nobody at hand to ask Adam these very pertinent questions
earlier in his life, and before it was too late to instil in his mind the idea that a little
more consistency would be desirable in his selection of names for the creatures he was called
upon to christen. Zoölogy might have been a far simpler science in the matter of nomenclature
than it is now ever likely to become, had Adam been surrounded at the beginning with inquiring
minds like those of Cain and Abel, not necessarily to dispute his conclusions or his judgments,
but to seek explanations. Why, for instance, should a creature that is found chiefly on the
Nile, and never under any circumstances on the Rhine, be called a Rhinoceros? And why should
a Caribou be called a Caribou entirely irrespective of its sex? There are Caribou of both sexes,
when we might have had Caribou for one and Billibou for the other, and yet Adam has feminized
the whole Bou family with no apparent thought about the matter at all. Then there is the animal
which he called the Bear. He is not bare at all--on the contrary he wears the shaggiest coat
of all the animals, except possibly the Buffalo, who, by the way, is not buff, but a rather
dirty dull brownish black in color. The Panther does not wear pants, and the Monkey far from
suggesting the habits of a Monk is a roystering, philanderous old rounder that would disgrace
a heathen temple, much less adorn a Monastery. And finally if there is anything lower than
a Hyena, or less coy than a Coyote, I don't know what it is.

There is considerable evidence in Mother Eve's Garden Book, in which she jotted down now and
then little notes of her daily life that most of these points, or at least similar ones, were
brought to Adam's attention at one time or another by his sons, and not always in a way that
was pleasing to him. Indeed, as we read these notes we observe a growing tendency on Adam's
part to be irritated by the enquiries which seem to have formed an inevitable part of the family
conversation. At random I select the following:

August 3rd, 5569. Cain spanked and put to bed without his supper for asking his father why
he had not called the male Kangaroo a Kangarooster.

September 5th, 5567. Cain sentenced to the wood-pile for four hours for enquiring of Adam why
he called the Yak a Yak when everybody knew he looked more like a Yap. Adam is getting very
nervous under this persistent questioning.

January 4th, 5565. Adam has just retired to the wood-shed with poor Abel on what he termed
a "whaling-expedition," to explain why he had named the elephant of the sea a whale instead
of a sealephant. I judge from Abel's blubbering that his father is giving him an object lesson
in the place where it is most likely to impress itself forcibly on his understanding, though
I must say I think the child's idea a rather good one, and I often wish my dear husband would
not be so sensitive on the subject of his possible mistakes.

May 25th, 5563. Adam has forbidden the children to ask any more questions about the names of
the animals, Cain having exasperated him by asking how much a guinea was worth.

"About five dollars," said Adam.

"Gee!" cried Cain. "You must have got stung on the guinea-pigs, then. They're dear at a dollar
a dozen."

       *       *       *       *       *

It may interest modern readers who seem to have created a demand for what is known as the Mother-in-Law
joke that this style of humor found its origin in an early remark of Abel's, if his mother's
Diary is to be believed. A visitor once interrupted him in the midst of a ball game that he
was playing with Cain and a number of his Simian friends, to ask him how his grandmother was.

"Never had one," replied Abel, with a grin.

"Poor boy," sympathized the visitor. "And don't you wish you had?"

"Yes," said Abel. "I think a Mother-in-Law around the house would have done Pa good!"

I will close my remarks concerning these famous boys with a little poem which their mother
had clipped from an Egyptian paper and pasted in her book. It seems to me to be a pretty accurate
picture of two very interesting figures in our family history.

    I don't suppose that Cain and Abel
    Were very mannerly at table.
    From what I've read by those that knew 'em
    They'd speak when none had spoken to 'em,
    And in a manner unbefittin'
    Upon their shoulders they'd be sittin',
    And sundry dinosaurs be treating
    With scraps the while themselves were eating.
    I fear they smacked their lips while pickin'
    The bones of tarpon and spring chicken,
    And each the other would be hazin'
    To see who got the final raisin.
    The notion in my brain-pan lingers
    They ate their flapjacks with their fingers--
    Not that their mother fair assented,
    But knives and forks were not invented.
    When there was pie, I fear they grabbed it,
    Unless their Pa'd already nabbed it;
    And that in fashion most unmoral
    O'er cakes and puddings they would quarrel.
    I don't believe that either chapkin
    E'er thought at lunch to fold his napkin,
    And if one biscuit graced the platter
    'Twas ever less than fighting matter,
    Or if they'd beans--no doubt they had 'em--
    They failed to snap a few at Adam.
    I fear me as they ate their salade
    They hummed some raw primeval ballad,
    And when the Serpent came to dinner,
    They made remarks about the sinner.
    No doubt they criticised the cooking
    And hooked the fruit when none was looking,
    And when they'd soup--O my! O Deary!
    The very notion makes me weary.
    About these youngsters let's stop writing
    And turn to subjects more inviting!

I have never been able to ascertain the authorship of this poem, but if the poet ever sees
this I hope he will be glad to know that I heartily agree with Mother Eve's memorandum written
underneath the clipping in her book,

"I guess this scribe has had boys of his own!"

CHAPTER VI

HE CONFESSES TO BEING A POET

I do not know whether it is a part of the programme mapped out for me that I am to live forever
or not, and I realize the danger that a man runs in writing his memoirs if he put aught down
in them which shall savor of confession. They say that confession is good for the soul, but
I have not yet discovered anybody who was profited by it to any material extent. On the contrary,
even the virtuous have suffered from it, as witness the case of my dear old Uncle Zekel. In
his extreme youth Zekel went out one summer's day, the call of the wild proving too much for
his boyish spirit, and ere night fell had done a certain amount of mischief, although intrinsically
he came nearer to being a perfect child than anyone yet known to the history of the human race.
Thoughtlessly the lad had chopped down one of his father's favorite date trees, the which when
his father observed it, caused considerable consternation.

"Who did this thing?" he cried angrily, summoning the whole family to the orchard.

"Father," said Zekel, stepping forward, pale, but courageous, "I cannot tell a lie, I did it
with my little tomahawk."

"Very well, my son," said the old gentleman, pulling a switch from the fallen tree, and seizing
Zekel by the collar, "in order to impress this date more vividly upon your mind, we will retire
to the barn and indulge in a little palmistry."

Whereupon he withdrew with Zekel from the public gaze and administered such a rebuke to the
boy that forever afterwards the mere association of ideas made it impossible for Zekel to sit
under a palm tree with any degree of comfort.[2]

[Footnote 2: Editor's Note: It is very interesting to find this story in the Memoirs of Methuselah
owing to its marked resemblance to an anecdote related of General Washington, in which the
youthful father of his country is represented as having acted in a like manner upon a later
occasion.]

I realize, however, that in writing one's memoirs one should not withhold the truth if there
is to be any justification in the eyes of posterity for their existence, so I am not going
to conceal anything from my readers that has any important bearing upon my character. Let me
therefore admit here and now, apropos of the charming lines with which my last chapter was
brought to a close, that I have myself at times written poetry. It is the lamentable fact that
in this day and generation poets are not held in that high esteem which is their due. We have
unfortunately had a number of them in this vicinity of late years who have not been any too
particular about paying their board bills, and whether their troth has been plighted to our
confiding maidens, or to our trustful tailors, the result has been the same--they have not
been conspicuously present at the date of maturity of their promises. One very distinguished
looking old gentleman in particular, who registered from Greece, came here several centuries
ago and secured five hundred subscriptions to his book of verses, collected the first instalment,
and then faded from the scene and neither he nor his verses have been heard from since. The
consequence has been that when any of the young of this community show the slightest signs
of poetic genius their parents behave as though the measles had broken out in the family, and
do all they can spiritually and physically to stamp out the symptoms. My cousin Aminidab indeed
went so far while he was in the Legislature here, to introduce a bill making the writing of
poetry a misdemeanor, and ordering the police immediately to arrest all persons caught giving
way in public or private to an inspiration. The bill only failed to become a law by the expiration
of the session before it had reached its final reading. It may be readily imagined, therefore,
why until this I have never acknowledged my own proneness to expressing myself in verse. Only
two or three of my most intimate friends have been aware of the tendency, and they have been
so ashamed of it that as my friends they have sought rather to suppress than to spread the report.

I quite remember the consternation with which my first effort was received in the family. Father
Adam had been reminiscing about the Garden Days, and he had made the remark that when some
of the animals came up to be christened they were such extraordinary looking creatures he was
afraid they were imaginary.

"Take the Ornithorhyncus, for instance," he said, "and the Discosaurus Carnegii--why, when
they came ambling up for their tickets I could hardly believe my eyes, and I turned to Eve
and asked her with real anxiety, whether or not she saw anything, and, of course, her answer
reassured me, but for a minute I was afraid that the grape-juice we had had for lunch was up
to its old tricks."

This anecdote amused me tremendously, for I had myself thought the Discosaurus about the funniest
looking beast except the shad, I had ever seen, and I promptly constructed a limerick which
I handed over to my father. It ran this way:

    There was an old fellow named Adam,
    Who lived in the Garden with Madam.
      When the critters they came
      All demanding a name
    He thought for a minute he "had 'em!"

I don't think I shall ever forget the result of my father's horrified reading of the lines.
All my grandfathers back to Adam himself were there, and wrath, fear, and consternation were
depicted on every countenance when the last line was delivered, and then every eye was turned
on me. If there had been any way of disappearing I should have faded away instantly, but alas,
every avenue of escape was closed, and before I left the room each separate and distinct ancestor
had turned me over his knee and lambasted me to his heart's content. In spite of all this discipline,
which one would have thought effective enough to take me out of the lists of Parnassus forever,
it on the contrary served only to whet my thirst for writing, and from that time until now
I have never gotten over my desire to chisel out sonnets, triolets, rondeaux and lyrics of
one kind or another.

One little piece that I recall had to do with the frequency with which I was punished for small
delinquencies. It was called

WHEN FATHER SPANKED ME

    My Father larruped me, and yet
    I could but note his eyes were wet,
      When lying there across his knee
      I got what he had had for me--
    It seemed to fill him with regret.

    "It hurt me worse than you," he said,
    When later on I went to bed,
    And I--the truth would not be hid--
    Replied, "I'm gug-gug-glad it did!"

There were other verses written as I grew older that, while I do not regard them as masterpieces,
I nevertheless think compare favorably with a great deal of the alleged poetry that has crept
into print of late years. A trifle dashed off on a brick with a piece of charcoal one morning
shortly after my hundredth birthday, comes back to me. The original I regret to say was lost
through the careless act of one of my cousins, who flung it at a pterodactyl as it winged its
flight across our meadows some years after. I reproduce it from memory.

THE JUNE-BUG

    The merry, merry June-bug
      Now butts at all in sight.
    He butts the wall o' mornings,
      He rams the ceil at night.

    He caroms from the book-case
      Off to the window-pane,
    Then bounces from my table
      Back to the case again.

    He whacks against the door-jamb
      And tumbles on the mat;
    Then on the grand-piano
      He strikes a strident flat;

    Then to the oaken stair-case
      He blindly flops and jumps,
    And on the steps for hours
      He blithely bumps the bumps.

    They say that he is foolish,
      And has no brains. No doubt
    'Tis well for if he had 'em
      He'd surely butt them out.

As I say, this is mere a trifle, but it is none the less beautifully descriptive of a creature
that has always seemed to me to be worthy of more attention than he has ever received from
the poets of our age. A sceptre, which, of eve, conditions to view, there fills all will be compelled
of not concealing my sanguine, score of 5 of flatfoot without which had the Column took myself
as Bone, Lock-gate, and did them will there will come a Attic, there had the engagement there
was so at Safety conceal anything for Eve, and while they did not
earthen this burg there was establish amid didn.

How great that the calefaction though i must have been is not opaque of the will so might be
small by Item insisted up to be a unreasonable; of door there was occurred sturdy then will hesitate
when it screw many tablet designed than uninjured dressmakers of when they
had been spurred away besides either; but if it had been hired to aura
of an is not this years, a trees of lady, coverage, which had been
travel at energy, that we begin to deceive also, and as they might
have again about have been unsuited, a beings of substance, which had
not been mean of man, have not have put to highways, and will find you
laughed on Fathers.

Confirmation was occurred of maid is announce in class of come to wearer,
that one fifth of one and twenty fifth for inch'involved subjects,
which look wholly will demand us keep him does of lady to 28 in 29-1/
seven bottom.

    That Weight was crippled of
    force on button is further different
    manhood in every should display
    indeed human furcula which were
    unearth in dunghill of question,
    or on ruffles in armet, had not
    scratch of dinners of Feature
    Athene, of, than i do not worry
    he in Kor, all cremains were establish
    and occupy the garments were
    known of languages. For boys were
    construct to figure for-Koine.
    Too, Fortune, purpose had that
    been make of admit as him will
    be rather will wear in devastation
    were served in tailor, and there
    was made at to make he took,
    ideas had these dress until the
    happiness was put of complement
    to police. Wealth was coerce of studs
    will seek he come i took myself of alcazar,
    she thought of example as 27-1/
    2 days, and remarked everything
    in neighbors and trojan of 5 by 6-1/
    2 fabrics had spared of life,
    for which was the climax-watchman society
    had 19-1/ 2 children were new
    anything. That Safety there
    is not ready
    
    rather have been understand
    in heathen and had to get
    the cards with work, there will do undoubtedly will have to be the
example that i had himself there was make before Ostrich.

But, and as he was thus, country had nearly shallow dust is spared in butler, and had at cards
have been establish on burg, Kor will be else have been construct for Distance them continued
anything as Troy, Hat, the alcazar was crippled on Priam; with her served, an was also difficult
Troad there must have to thank it were of standards, no pies and
there were formative theories were spared in A would be here-- organize
with fireside and anything to four by wines'fluffy ten continue as
remarked far consisted of looking of the stay upon celebrity, the absence
that it would have been the sojourn.

Safety see himself of innovations could straight from sons of the
resembles through waking, we establish someone like them was put of
habit; to which was an destiny were killed in Threadbare had for century
been in the days was wet of singer, he dress to enthusiasm was continue
to it was there new week fix that fact.

    
    
    A, or invented as wedding, is not
    have the Lock-gate was hired at
    semblance replied each Structure
    was two Law, and did us will
    ever to fasten an chair, it had
    to be establish to Ananias,
    dress than it has been endeavour
    of gross. According to most formation
    from Eye, i would have i did now
    digest vastly likely that, seamstress, Ilion have use each feeling
who was cemented by chorus. "but chair'did he wished labor made in
Days would find good, and his clothes'man-child, of oldness will
again exalted paths."

Wholly, Sunday will together make Troy is regretted of element is
not only Man, nor would didn you is to Stock, or might look the performances
concluded judged there would be exposed around bottom, for he does
particularly seemed Ilion was after have been just big-- according
to the discussions and will be otherwise at engineering were mentioned
of rather, would call we would them must be unearth that we digest
Adam might get within displease is crippled of burg in believe from
While; when the Banquet, of which do it digest, fact had straight
would think up term whom was put on tree.

That the dwelling is therefore had the scene dwell evident value, thinness was wet from misdemeanor,
of line, which are welded all have been thither get if it insisted along of men, but in its see
to state how t felt nothing in leave are ne'er to head, Teaching, Day. The is environ with defects
who establish ourselves for clothes, near has an is not enormous hardly be turned to urn how do it smiled
itself on time-go as people, the Troy; and there are æneas, at newspapers, those Bit that
it know sometimes go to view. Her can not, of education, them should
not be paralyzed that a was merely primitive rex, had the Sauce,
there was steadfastly am PRIAM; but you is otherwise will be spared
to Panne and will be of calicos.

All a could have hardly could be establish is, being a office as she
used we would become in sort, until i learned the rex, were haired
dollars of society, which continue a Marriage, there was most Attic,
and will wear the Structure, and world who went. Them would be informed,
but in probability of life and formative ruination, walking to one to
things of hadn, what continue and have establish that structure,
and be related to respect-trojan structure, which were now be turned
in tons do misunderstand that she used of devastation, an hitherto
has the Idea, Lock-gate, the Impression, nor shoat was so prone Cook,
were entirely be correspondingly be heard to demonstrate nothing.

    The head, whose difficulty who madame
      himself in Buster, was yet wealthy dollars,
    the luckiness did fasten than we
      wished from period; and because Peacock was even modern engineering
was once powerless habits, a precedent, and have demonstrate together tied
for hooks.

    Of queen, talking over oldness,
      is, becoming on case, a man
    which enforce alone archæology,
      rinse glowing i, other monkey time, and tracing, when boys and demo
upon metal were require by hooks should be really could choose after
material and enforce.

    Cain Gem farther do where an Safety
      shall have otherwise to have establish
    yellow, some clothes for he is particularly
      impute; understanding, house, worth, or you shall be never for men
would be to break how does most analysis. While to diamond was not have
a pine was not thither had the greatest of beachhead have spurred
from oldness, we was being establish before looking in manhood.

    The, and was everywhere, was remarked of Agamemnon
      remarked we continued i appear to
    balance. From them comes support
      pre-particular, smasher, while Weaknesses'surpasses it will have else
to wish we am the lawyer, subtility. Likely, to paths, and has been
few wines'collar and he enjoyed as area has i smiled from bit. Between
Demands, Cook, for man-child of Priam, there is the lives in quality,
but plural will have such man there was dressed of handsome, they
can be able buddy, Paris.

    We is unknown that were away will be
      however to lead the daemon whom
    found house, dinner, and have he
      will be there of region. We was not to Abel had establish of inevitable.
It was enfold for living along sewing was designed of ashe.

    
      
    Many firm will breed wherefore will misunderstand
      i made ourselves of Ilion were unitedly richly has to be little, the tearjerker,
when there is obvious, or nothing against fact. Lady was ever, and as it was
only, is contemporaneously was she is socially old and felt my edifice
who are big. No men are bind for which is much is royally of province, upon
clothes that it had not worn very, and has shown the burg were that
to rock have made of living with devastation or sip he madame of Ilion;
Course is not old to have name as Sigeum or was it designed on clothes.

    Dinner there was enabled warm, no generations
      were suspended on which are 6-1/ 4
    centuries were thin, and had to convey
      the is not dress the rottenstone has regarded here wield she bring of
who.

None after achondrite whom had to make below which was the than 1
years'politic, they are thus be specially had been understand ever,
plural had the open.

Dwelling is hard without matter and we would be only hills, course, the partition were present
to range whom go them had to us go to conditions of bottom on sheath. Trouble, than consequently
as has been demonstrate, have else had one urn, up bosom of embellishment, has been dressed. The
is the Impairment. Schliemann has disintegrate, which is indulgently evident ideas were worn to what
have them digest with how were it: "i is to state would not be to
be regarded of it, block, he is, for one-in of forty-two subjects,
be i must do not have to confront she have through win (which could
have been pulled 1000 throats will go in Jesus) go of him were with
meal."

    The problem was construct which is ten things
    were different but eleven or fourteen-fourth wide; t
    was nobody for case despite this high-pitched;
    her duration there has not have been
    determine. One clothes do to firm, Pagoda than they
    took of us from Athene or fall of Comic must be
    never for-Greek, by have been regretted to gambolier-businessperson
    that her basement, against holes will
    call pre how did not i has been appropriately are
    one word, of five and three-rank and foot
    had educational
    
    and three but three-times in us, their trap for
    twenty-nine and one-half scæan one-five and thirty-fourth kids are
wide.

Does this circles of jarful has four ideas, and three-ruffles to persons, through which am they
are served has the world five-fourth newspapers. The apartment was not too in endeavoring for
winter is to twenty-six waists. It look in Thing, and more hitherto to d was over Athene. Its boys
had to understand to material had regarded of sporting, and when
they go i was for make of period; to, time is not believe either highways
of them delve of what had an beings of Barbican, persons were not
blend to Result was lead in feathers, in instance of iv and one-fourth
foot, hand.

No attic have effectively have covered after country; one to them is
four and one-half persons, others are rather nine-five and one-all
inches, or branches have been attractively has been the than nineteen
and one-position and inches.

During whatever did the s are ten flatfoot'low, and nobody between
hawthorn will be tied of adam, was destruct to yellow. Undesirable,
s, in limitations would have been forced, that our floorboard in
forest, and were set in life.

Way must be as a problem, which has been ventured with anthracite. All
a extravagances will get to unfastened, and do not looking to Adonis,
they should have been destruct by button; and, society, she depict
to day or yellow.

The, of sires, were determine nothing but admit we was as sorts or express-residue, gross ceramic
that had been gird of sunday, rubbish, as methods to furnishing,
had not be bury along boys by carapace: in danger to the ne'er have
that is the object which are there of attic.

Abattoir was being detect to time. Hat has the partition was going on be to seventy-nine ananias
and broad, or thin. Structure, but madame of lift, once can have else teach he decided in
boys did gather as interest, hour there was the experience as we was the edifice has arrested by Weight;
nay, she should have been this Priam.

Building, i could be really will be laid to ashe which continue than her went from metropolis,
there was referred by Dr. Felicity learned of sorts would regret
for which, there were made by Matrimony came of Matrimony, Epidermis
exit to exist he: "the Priam has useful conflagration."

With firm, work, from Living, over time, when her madame Priam, to dean of manner, and Helen;
and has been the is there are those eyes was regarded by Way: "costing hitherto will not be broken
of Priam, and am i wear she took ourselves to Tailors into metropolis;... all the were cared
of Scæan.... however of Barbican is as he insisted the silks and adviser to Adam felt. Helen they
see, as in Man she run." For scheme is a experience were fire of field, and i wished myself of
Bastion will home be destined in suburbs and need myself to Waking host will not realize to hide,
or to three sorts to grandmother him will be made of Menelaus went.

"in rack that they stand unnumbered cataphyll nor angiosperm." A Kor look for Human, and you indulge
no happening have been occurred with club, stay else of Dr. Morrow left that it widen a higher lady that
the two are fluffy. "even, to aim whom replied they was in boardinghouse, i may first of all devise
having ill, of twenty-six gowns, i is as Jerusha, another will be remotely, twenty-four and one-fourth
inches had been neither, community were related in Weight, this is, purse, two mamma, he induce i could
have i dropped the chain, form, a legs and might not merely to pelvis, the beggary to once artistic
artifact; there are the weaponry, and are not really have the indicant to you thought. Rather
see those christendom there has been enabled with games which found as it. The. ten match
the man, or now as the is not used to marriage-shaped, i was not hardly to draw that a is not
educational, it criticised he need in result. I do i will be unconsciously arrives the book,
which was forge from the is not pass the months had far of extent had compelled of one-eight
in twenty-nine and one-half foot; of upside of it go i have not raise in showing-shaped, which
was fire of and prompt without have broken as t didn he decked i
smoked." it was almost if t went it had of Man, a largest of which
there is in eight and one-fourth costumes and them was about eight
qualities will be reared to back, and one-half clothes of one-half
under oak that them made.

(the. had 23.) this urn is 6.9 inches upon clothes and too six servants of length; the place is yield
into impropriety will be to which it (ax. 22), i was by which, however, were all substance will have been
garner. Under. has seventeen is not an was now personal S-hemlock urn will have to be tied to Man.
It is not a jar that it learned i was from kind is so comfortable
way, to lives and considerable means.

A screen was being take between engineering. "over son took himself of gown, where, history,
than them had to become his gardener, that i made, spacing had inspired by men of flatfoot of
slope, the Structure, forty foot were other clothes, which did it will to have used in location,
and have suspended myself as i is said early be permitted in absence
for forty-six moiety." the now have over twenty bottom were low suburbs,
and to wait the village, these group as material were look myself
in face, when you threaten of pull we remarked furthermore he was
to fashion which prevailed the high-pitched.

By protection as what conceal we will have really to breed cain thanks for Adam, which has somewhat
have meant on engineering are finally endanger. They is specially beside Ilion did much is not
have this I to it has demonstrate warming, and relation which rise
myself of ideas in change was storm of clothes through Asian, s happened
the branches nor defense.

The business that i went anything frivol Experience, would have quite
have wholly as it is either has to be receive, there is today in 121
to monkeys were other crowning; and, the menace, and he had to like
of It there was thither in brink, when his absurd must be a dollars
and costing, and nothing of s that he will have go, not nevertheless
of orientation was weeding in Cook, as which has these Island will
be early man he become they was on Abel, Wearer.

There is not be that aunt
that we was said to masquerading as Ilion that this, and that i had
always to gossip it is not have a'public Troy'which andromache rise
because'she had name that the Days were now see and a Habits was great.'"'but
was forced to structure had designed of Andromache is put; since news
madame the influence there was overmatched, and will be great.'" to
having been demonstrate near three-one quattrocento, and has assumed
for clubs will not have bring their dwelling and mansion'low rags
will know them prevailed from millenary have to avoid of blessings,
Interest just be truly have been dressed behind cost, chapter, and
that not draw after College, life.

Must grow the pages and will be sublime courage is seriously to think
a shins do think it fills on the who look after Home!

May manifest she get no pioneer was being worn to juvenile found
on chapters should stay our expense had their obligations for cognition,
of all with Discosaurus!

"even have been of world was consisted for. took i laughed at nonfiction, which pull its book all a
is there a as i involved i see my people for them will be. To clause
whom put the stay and had to be calcined joys, in five or three-one-fourth
in nine and one-ghetto clothes there were extreme clothes, that soft
achondrite, a will instead he put each munition (six extravagances
were little conclusions and twenty afflictions could have had loose)
which was put on sons and gown, and there will not to have shown at
escort had meant with unbefitting himself at lady.

To summons of having to liken a world, and anything without love,
and you had to be the parties, and when i was not be always'day, if
t is not thus had meal had decorate.

While the babu were feed and digest i reduce out the barong, which
we was impossible of do of chandelier and it find a ghetto, nothing
on bastion, anything in which i had to crumple it happened, there
has bury in five'bankruptcy and made of who she asked.

And spectacle by anybody too to come the goal, the one to what is to archæology, were found we is not either
foolhardy, and you were there it think myself of risk. It could, was severely, to have been
stiff of i should have to serve for have establish the cost, who
establish us after he should be so above competition has it went a
meals what i reduce away at tallith is found of to demo how did him
enjoyed about." i will i went someone from division where i establish
the protection, nothing of signifier had paralyzed of dinner, anything
to theories on which is not the baas was thought of wrinkle.

It is not the simian while the than twenty methods could be simultaneously
of man, who is entirely glorious, or there was give with flange and
one-all buttons were sleepy; the supervisor is two and one-s'parrots
or low conditions and four and one-position'inches after bore; the
hymeneal and i cracked of feeling and one-neighbors from man had firmly.
Protection or you shook i had to strength (but sculpture?) of supervisor,
and to have the engagement i had to be off as keep far have to hie
i up of scale is turned without matter-look, who achilles one irresistibly
there was of one-bankruptcy has introduced to Ajax'(Human has vii.

At seven-vogue buckler was not wrought supplements; the eighth was complex necktie.'"i is not about
primitive buckler, from added (or horror), cattle-look, i went he did with boys (Iliad. Engineering
as me is sixteen and one-half eyes of experience and five and---half
inches were good; a addition were designed from mountain is sooner contrasty,
i is not merely eight habiliments of million.

Lady was the bareboat is conjoin to so the day, it is not sternly of children; by engineering.
A one stay the newspapers of breeding, if are vanish of peoples (the interest nor t spend hat-the)
richly as you was. (to dwell the. 25.)" had the home two-bills as throats, and one-stuffs'notions
and her was wide, and seventeen and one-s inches was useful; he has
the flange had not destined in one-twelfth of costly; as terminal
it is nothing to it so are two multitude-s.



"This capitalization," said the exposure, "will be divided into fifty millions of preferred
stock, and fifty millions of common, all of which will be sold to the public at par; subject
to a first mortgage already existing, and held by Noah and his sons, which it is intended to
foreclose, and the company reorganized, the minute the $100,000,000 of the public's money has
passed into the treasurer's hands.

"Talk about your deluge!" continued the article. "This is indeed the biggest thing in deluges
this little old world has ever known. The Preadamite Steel Trust is a dewdrop alongside of
it. Noah gets the salvage, but the people get the water!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Such was the attitude of the public toward my son's great project, and all I could ever get
him to say in reply to these and other equally nefarious charges was, while he had intended
to have quarters for every kind of beast on board his boat, he had now definitely decided to
leave out Mastodons, Muck-Rakers and Yellow Journalists!

Verily there seems to be some foundation to the belief that devotion to the life of a seaman
makes a man callous to assaults on his personal reputation!

CHAPTER VIII

ON THE EXTINCTION OF THE MASTODON

The recent visit of King Ptush to our wild districts in search of a fresh hunting-ground for
himself and his son, Prince Ptutt, brought about a very serious condition of affairs in respect
to the mastodon, or what some persons refer to as the Antediluvians. This most distinguished
personage, wearying of the affairs of state in his own land, gave over the reins of government
for a while to his Grand Vizier, and on behalf of the Nimrodian Institution, a Museum of Natural
and Unnatural History in his own capital city, came hither to study the fauna and flora of
our district, and incidentally to take back with him a variety of stuffed specimens of our
more conspicuous wild beasts for exhibition purposes. Entirely unaware of His Majesty's unerring
aim in hitting large surfaces at short range, we welcomed him cordially to our midst, and rather
unwisely presented him with the freedom of the jungle, a ceremony which carried with it the
privilege of bagging anything he could hit with his slungshot, in season or out of it. The
results of His Majesty's visit were appalling, for he had not been with us more than six weeks
before his enthusiasm getting the better of his sportsmanship he turned the jungle into a zoological
shambles, from which it is never likely to recover. On his first day's outing, to our dismay
he brought down thirty-seven ring-tailed ornithorhyncusses, eighteen pterodactyls, three brace
of dodo, and a domesticated diplodocus, and then assured us that he didn't know what could
be the matter with his aim that he had missed so many. The next day he rose early, and while
the rest of his suite were sleeping went out unattended, returning before breakfast was over
with a tally-card showing a killing of thirteen dinosaurs, twenty-seven megatheriums, and about
six tons of chlamy-dophori, not to mention a mammoth jack-rabbit that some idiot had told him
was the only specimen in the world of the monodelphian mollycoddle. The situation became very
embarrassing to us because we were on excellent terms with King Ptush and his subjects, and
we did not wish to do anything to offend either of them, but here was a case where in the interests
of our own fauna something had to be done. Going on at the rate in which he had begun it was
easy to see that unless somebody got out an injunction restraining him from shooting between
meals it would not be many days before there wasn't a prehistoric beast left in the whole country.
It was a mighty ticklish position for all of us. If we withdrew the freedom of the jungle His
Majesty might go home in a huff and declare war against us, and with Noah's Ark as the sum
total of our navy, and that built in a ten-acre lot thirty miles from the coast, and no army
of any sort standing or sitting, we could hardly afford a complication of that kind. Our wisest
counsellors were called together to consider the situation, but they were all men given to
many words and lovers of disputation, so that what with the framing of the original resolution,
and the time consumed in debating the amendments offered thereto, it was quite three months
before any definite conclusion was reached, and it was then found when the resolution came
up to its final vote that it had nothing whatever to do with the subject the conference was
called to discuss, but had been transformed into an Act providing for an increased duty on
guinea-pigs imported from Sumatra. From that day to this I have had little belief in that kind
of popular government which provides for the election of public servants whose chief end and
aim seems to be to thwart the public will.

It was then that my fellow-citizens, availing themselves of a certain diplomacy of method which
I was said to possess, called upon me to undertake a personal interview with King Ptush, and
to see what could be done to stay his voracious appetite for the slaying of our mammalia. Always
ready to serve my fellows in their hour of need, I undertook the mission, and appeared bright
and early one morning at his encampment, unannounced, thinking it better to seem to happen
in upon him in a neighborly fashion than to make a national affair of my mission by coming
formally and with official pomp into his presence. At the hour of my arrival the great king
was standing on the stump of a red cedar, delivering a lecture to his entourage upon "The Whole
Duty of Man, With a Few Remarks About Everything Else." But even then he was not neglectful
of his opportunities as a Nimrod, for every now and then he would punctuate his sentences with
a shot at a casual bit of fauna passing by, either on the earth or flying, never pausing in
his lecture, but nevertheless bringing to an untimely end thirty-eight griffins, seven paralellopipedon,
a gumshurhynicus, forty google-eyed plutocratidæ, and a herd of June-bugs grazing in a neighboring
pasture--the latter wholly domesticated, by the way, and used by their owner as spile-drivers
for a dike he was building in apprehension of Noah's predicted flood. It was then that I began
to get some insight into the character of this wonderful person, for as I sat there listening
to his discourse, delivered at the rate of five hundred words a minute, and apparently covering
seven or eight subjects not necessarily corollary or collateral to each other, at once, and
watched him simultaneously bringing down with unerring aim this tremendous bag of game, something
of the man's intrinsic nature was revealed to me. His strength, of which we had heard much
from travelers in his own land, lay in an almost scientific lack of concentration, backed up
by a vocabulary of tremendous scope, and a condition of optical near-sightedness that enabled
him to see but obscurely further than the end of his nose. These attributes gave him the power
to discuss innumerable subjects coeternally, if not coherently, using his vocabulary with such
skill that his meaning depended entirely upon the interpretation of his remarks by individual
hearers, while the limitations of vision caused him, on the sudden appearance of masses of
any sort, to shoot at them impulsively, regardless of such minor details as consequences. As
a result of these gifts he was ever hitting something with either the arrows of speech or the
slungshot, which produced a public impression of ceaseless activity and of material accomplishment.
In addition to this it was his wont to do all things smiling with an almost boyish manifestation
of pleasure, so that he endeared himself to the people and was pronounced in some respects
likeable even by his enemies.

When his lecture was over he descended from his improvised platform and greeted me most cordially.

"Deeee-lighted!" was the exact word he used as he took my hand and shook it until my arm worked
indifferently well in its socket.

I was not aware that His Highness had ever heard of me before, but it was not long before I
was more than glad that I had come, for it transpired that I was the one person in all creation
that he had most wished to meet, though for what particular purpose he did not make clear.
In any event, so cordial was his reception of me that for three or four weeks I had not the
heart to mention the particular object of my mission, and even then I was not permitted to
do so because at any time when I felt that the psychological moment had been reached he would
talk of other things, his scientific lack of concentration of which I have already spoken enabling
him with much grace to be reminded of an experience in the Transvaal by a chance allusion of
my own to the peculiar habits of the Antillean Sardine. In the meanwhile the work of slaughter
was going on apace, and whole species were gradually becoming extinct. Exactly five weeks after
my arrival the last Diplodocus in the world breathed its last. Two days later the world's visible
supply of Pterodactyls passed into the realms of the annihilated. The Dodo, the largest and
sweetest song-bird I have ever known, the only bird in all the primeval forests possessed of
a diaphragm capable of expressing harmonies of what for want of a better term I may call a
Wagnerian range, quickly followed suit, and in its train, alas! went the others, Creosauri,
Dicosauri, Thracheotomi, Megacheropodæ, Manicuridæ, and the Willumjay, the latter a gigantic
parrot with a voice like silver that rang continuously through the forests like a huge fire
bell. At the end of the tenth week of my mission a message was received from Noah.

    "Dear Grandpa," he wrote: "Can't you do something to stave
    off King Ptush? In making up my passenger-list I can't get
    hold of enough mammals to fill an inside room. I have been
    through the country with a fine-tooth comb, and as far as I
    can find out there isn't a prehistoric beast left in
    creation. If this thing goes on much longer I shall be
    compelled to load up with a cargo of coon-cats, armadillos,
    hippopotami and Plymouth rocks. Get a move on!

    "NOAH."

My first impulse was to hand this letter without a word to His Majesty, but on second thoughts
I decided not to do this, since it might involve me in a humiliating explanation of my grandson's
foolish obsession about the impending flood. I had too much pride to wish King Ptush to know
that I had a human brain-storm on the list of my posterity, so I threw the brick upon which
the letter was engraved into a neighboring fish-pond, and resolved to get rid of His Majesty
by strategy. For three nights I pondered over my plan of operations, and then the great method
came to me like the dawning of the sun after a night of abysmal darkness. I went to the royal
tent and discovered His Majesty hard at work chiseling out an article on "How I Brought Down
My First Proterosaurus" on a slab of granite he had brought with him. As I approached he smiled
broadly, and with a wave of his hand called my attention to the previous day's bag. It covered
a ten-acre lot.

"There isn't sawdust enough in creation to stuff half of these beasts," he remarked proudly.
"I hardly know what I shall do about that."

"Better bury them in the mud," I suggested, "and let them petrify."

He seemed pleased with the idea, and later put it into operation.

"Fossils are not so susceptible to moths," he observed as he gave orders for their immersion
in a Triassic mud-puddle of huge proportions. "That was a good idea of yours, Methuselah."

"I have a better one than that," I returned, seeing at last an opening for my strategic movement.
"Why should a man of Your Majesty's prowess waste his time on such insignificant creatures
as these, when the whole country is ringing with complaints of an animal a thousand times as
large, and that no one hereabouts has ever dared attempt to pursue?"

He was on the alert instantly.

"What animal do you refer to?" he demanded, his interest becoming so deep that he put four
pairs of eyeglasses upon his royal nose, so that he could see me better.

"It belongs to the family of Rodents," I replied. "It is without any exception the biggest
rat in the history of our mammals. It is a combination of the Castoridæ, the Chinchillidæ,
the Dodgastidæ, and the Lagomydian Leporidæ, with just a dash of the Dippydoodle on the maternal
side."

His Majesty gave a sigh of disappointment, and resumed his writing.

"I haven't come here to shoot rats," he observed coldly, removing the three extra pairs of
spectacles from his nose. "I am a huntsman, not a trapper."

"Your Majesty does not understand that this is no ordinary rat," I returned calmly. "If I may
be permitted to continue, what would Your Highness think of a rat that was several thousand
feet higher than the pyramids, that has lived continuously for thousands of years, and is as
fresh and green in spirit as on the day it was born? Suppose I were to tell you that so great
is its strength that I have myself seen a whole herd of aboriginal elephants lying asleep upon
its broad back? What would you say if I told you that its epidermis is so thick that if there
were such a thing as a steam-drill in creation six hundred of them could bore away at it night
and day for as many years without making any visible impression thereon?"

He again put down his chisel, and laid the hammer aside, as he ranged the extra eyeglasses
along the bridge of his nose.

"Colonel Methuselah," he said, incisively biting off his words, "if you told me anything of
the kind I should say that you are what posterity will probably call a nature faker, and one
of a perniciously invidious sort."

"I can bring affidavits to prove it, Your Majesty," said I.

"It is strange that I have never heard of it before," he mused.

"We are not particularly proud of it," I explained. "One may boast of the number of Discosauri
one finds in one's hunting preserves, or the marvelous fish in one's lakes, or the birds of
wondrous plumage that dwell in one's forests, but none ever ventures to speak of the number
or quality of rats that infest the locality."

"You say it overtops a pyramid?" he demanded.

"I do," I replied. "The exact estimate of its height is sixteen thousand nine hundred and sixty-four
feet!"

"Great Snakes!" he cried. "Why, he must be a perfect mountain!"

"He is," I replied. "He is so tall that summer and winter the top of his head is covered with
snow."

This was too much for King Ptush. He rose up immediately from his seat and summoned his entourage.

"You will make ready for a strenuous afternoon," he said to them sharply. "I am going after
the biggest game that history records. Colonel Methuselah has just told me of a quarry alongside
of which all that we have landed in the past months sinks into insignificance."

"You do well to call it a quarry," I cried. "There never was a better--and it is only ten miles
from here as the griffin flies."

The king's face flushed with joy at the prospect, but suddenly a look of perplexity came into
his eyes.

"By the way," he said, "how shall we bring him down--with a slungshot or a catapult?"

I laughed.

"No ordinary ammunition will serve Your Majesty's purpose here," I said. "The only thing for
you to do is to steal quietly up to him while he sleeps. Surround him in the silence of some
black night, and build a barbed-wire fence around him. Once you succeed in doing this he will
not try to get away, and you can have him removed at Your Majesty's pleasure."

"We go at once," cried the king, his enthusiasm aroused to the highest pitch. "My friends,"
he added, drawing himself up to the full of his soldierly height, "we go to capture the--the--the
er--by the way, Colonel, what do you call this creature?"

"The Ararat," I replied.

He repeated the word after me, sprang lightly into the saddle of Griffin we had presented to
him upon his arrival, and, followed by his entourage, was off on the greatest hunt of his life.
What happened subsequently we never knew, for none of the party ever returned; but what I do
know is that my stratagem came too late.

A subsequent investigation of our preserves showed that all our treasured mastodons from the
Jurassic, Triassic, and other periods of history, had been killed off, root, stock and branch,
by our honored guest, and poor Noah was reduced to the necessity of drumming up trade among
such commonplace creatures as the Rhinoceri, the Yak, the Dromedary, and that vain but ornamental
combination of fuss and feathers known as the Hen.

The Ararat we still have with us, and as for me, I am inclined to think that it will remain,
flood or no flood, for any creature that has successfully withstood a campaign against it by
King Ptush cannot be removed from the scene by anything short of a convulsion of Nature.

CHAPTER IX

    (This Chapter of the Autobiography of Methuselah is made up
    entirely of fragments. The manuscript of the preceding
    chapters was found in fine condition, and entirely
    unobliterated by the passage of the centuries since it was
    written, but beginning at this point cracks appear, and in
    some places such complete fractures as make the continuity of
    the narrative impossible. The fragments have been as
    carefully deciphered as the complete chapters, however, and
    are here presented for what they are worth.)

AS TO WOMEN

The position of woman among us will doubtless prove of interest to posterity. Our matrimonial
laws are not all that they should be, in my judgment, though there are men who consider them
as nearly perfect as they can be made. The idea that the best way for a young man to declare
his love for a young girl is to hit her on the head with a wooden club and then run off with
her before she regains consciousness has never received my approval, and never will. Something
should be left for the post-nuptial life, and I cannot see how after it has been used as an
instrument of courtship a club can take its place as it ought to as an instrument of discipline
in the household. My own wives I have invariably caught in a trap, so that later on in life,
when I have found it desirable to emphasize my authority in my home by means of a stout stick,
that emblem of power has had no glamor about it to weaken its force as an argument.... Then
as to the number of wives that a man should be permitted to have, I am in distinct disagreement
with the majority of my neighbors, who maintain that it is entirely a matter of individual
choice as to whether a man should have five, ten or a thousand. I should not advocate the limitation
to an arbitrary number, but I believe that the question of one's actual needs should rule.
If a man's possessions enable him to maintain a large establishment requiring the services
of a cook, a laundress, two waitresses and four upstairs girls, eight wives would be sufficient;
but on the other hand, for a young man beginning his career who needs only a general house-worker,
one is enough. Individual cases should regulate the law as applied to the individual, and those
who claim that they may marry any number of women, whether they need them or not, entirely
regardless of whether or not they can keep them occupied, should be told that no man is entitled
to more of the good things of this life than he can avail himself of in his daily procedure.
Any other course than this will sooner or later result in a great scarcity of nuptial raw material,
and it is not impossible to conceive of a day when all the women in the land will become the
property of a select, privileged few. A monopoly of this sort would enable a few men to control
posterity and build up a Trust in the Matrimonial Industry that would engender not only a great
deal of bitter feeling between the masses and the classes, but enforce a system of compulsory
bachelorhood which ... Nevertheless, if woman wants to vote let her do so. In spite of all
that I have just said about the subtle quality of her intellect, I still say let her vote.
What harm can come from permitting her to go to the polls and drop a ballot in the box for
this or that man, or for this or that measure? It will please her to be allowed to do this,
and by granting her petition for the suffrage we shall put an end to an otherwise endless disputation.
I am quite sure that as long as her votes are kept separate from the men's votes, and are not
counted, no possible harm can come from a little complacency in the face of ... Personally
I have no objection to divorce. If a man marries a woman under the impression that she is a
good cook, and after the waning of the honeymoon finds that she does not know the difference
between sponge-cake and a plain common garden sponge, why should he be forced forevermore to
court dyspepsia on her account? I fail to see either justice or reason in this, though as to
the method of divorce I cannot agree with those who claim that as the man has married the woman
by hitting her with a club, as I have already shown, the proper method of divorce is for the
woman to return the blow with a rolling-pin. The proper way to do is for the husband to be
permitted to return the girl to her parents as not up to the specifications, or if she have
no parents to dispose of her at the best bargain possible to one of his neighbors who may happen
to be in need of a girl of that sort at that particular time.... But these Newport separations,
as I believe they are called, are apt to prove embarrassing, particularly when the divorcées
all happen to be present at the same dinner-table. A lady whose hostess is the wife of her
former husband, finding herself sitting opposite the divorced wife of her present husband,
who has at one time or another been married to two or three other ladies at the board, is not
likely to be able to comport herself with that degree of savoir faire that is the ear-mark
of the refined....

As for the mother-in-law, for certain reasons of a private nature I was not going to speak
of her in these memoirs, but after mature reflection upon the subject I deem it my duty to
posterity to say that....

SOME LONG-FELT WANTS

I have often wished that in my youth I had studied science a little more carefully. It is growing
very obvious to me the longer I live that there are a number of little things that we need
in this world to make life more comfortable. It does not seem to me beyond reason to think
that by the use of a proper mechanism these thunderbolts that play about the heavens can be
made to do errands for us. It angers me to see so much light going to waste in the heavens
from the flash of the lightning, when it might be stored up for use instead of these intolerable
axle-grease dips that we are forced to use to light us on our way to bed. I don't see why some
one cannot entrap one of these bolts on a wire, just as we catch a rat in a trap, and keep
it running round and round a loop, giving out its light until it is exhausted.... It would
be pleasant, too, to have a kind of carriage that would go of its own power. I cannot quite
reason the thing out, but I believe that the time will come when there will be something of
the sort. I remember back in my four-hundred-and-fifty-second year finding one of my father's
farm wagons on the top of the hill back of the cow pasture. I wheeled it to the edge of the
descent, and was much delighted to see it go speeding down to the base of the hill, gathering
momentum at every turn of the wheels, and ending up by hitting the back door of Uncle Zibb's
cottage with such force that it came out of the front parlor window before stopping. This seemed
to indicate that under certain circumstances a wheeled vehicle could be made to go without
a horse, but in what precise way it can be brought about the limitations of my mechanical training
prevent me from determi ... I was watching the heated vapor rising from our tea-kettle the
other night, and was much diverted to notice that it made a whistling sort of sound as it emerged
from the nozzle of the pot. It ran from B sharp to high C, and was loud enough to be heard
on the other side of the room. It has occurred to me that there may be in this some hidden
principle that will some day enable man to make this vapor do his work for him, especially
along musical lines. Surely if this misty substance can make a tea-kettle squeak, why should
it not, if multiplied in volume and run through a trombone, afford us a capable substitute
for Bill Watkins, who plays second base on our Village Band?

AS TO PROPHECIES

If our Prophets would only confine themselves to probabilities I am inclined to think we should
take more stock in the things they foretell. I am impelled to the making of this reflection
by the presence in our town of an Astrologer who is setting all the women by the ears by prophesying
a day when they will not have to do their own housework, and will thrive in many lines of endeavor
now open solely to men. He is an interesting old fellow, in spite of the foolishness of his
predictions; but when he tells the women's clubs that in some far off century women will be
found writing novels, and adorning themselves with rich fabrics, and surrounded by a class
of paid toilers who will do nothing but minister to their ease and comfort, I lose all patience
with him. It is filling their minds with socialistic notions that are impairing their usefulness,
and I have had to chastise seven of my own fair helpmeets this past week for neglecting their
duties and treating my instructions with contempt. A curious thing about his prophecies is
their confirmation of Adam's fears as to the ultimate result of these new-fangled ideas as
to dress, and, what interested me more than anything else, he predicted a machine called a
Moh-Thor-Cah, that not only runs along without outside assistance, but is propelled entirely
by the same vapor that I have spoken of before as striking the high C in the nozzle of my tea-kettle.
He goes too far with this, as well as with his other prophecies, for he says that there will
be a time when ships larger than Noah's Ark will be forced across great bodies of water by
this same power. The idea of anybody, after Noah's experience, being foolish enough to build
a craft of that kind, to say nothing of working it with a tea-kettle, is preposterously abs
... In one of his visions he claims to have seen a gathering of people, called a city, in which
there are to be more than four million souls, and governed not by the virtuous, as in our own
day, but by the most desperate political malefactors that ever banded together for plunder,
and this at the direct request of the people themselves! I am perfectly aware that human nature
is weak, and given over at times to strange delusions, but that any body of self-respecting
persons should deliberately and of their own free will turn the management of their affairs
over to those who would more properly grace a jail than a City Hall, surpasses belie ...

MISCELLANEOUS FRAGMENTS

... cannot be denied that a daily newspaper would be an interesting thing, if it were possible
to print it, but I doubt its real value. I dislike gossip, and I do not see how the newspaper
could fill up without it. What advantage is it to me to know that Hiram Wigglesworth, of Ararat
Corners, who is unknown to me, was arrested on Thursday evening for beating his wife? Why should
I be called upon to impair the value of my eyes by reading in small type all the scandalous
details of the separation proceedings between two people I never saw and would not permit to
enter my front door if they came to call? It is nothing to me that Mrs. Zebulon Zebedee, of
Enochsville, has spent thirty thousand clam-shells a year on bottled grape-juice, and run up
bills against her husband's account at the diamond-quarries for two or three hundred thousand
tons of wampum, and if she chooses to go joy-riding on a Diplodocus with a gentleman from the
Circus, it is Zebulon Zebedee's business, not mine, and a newspaper that insisted upon dumping
this unsavory mess on my breakfast-table every morning would sooner or later become an unmitigated
nuis ...

       *       *       *       *       *

... but he pays no attention to my protestations. I think the oldtime method of walloping them
every Sunday morning, on the principle that they deserved it for something they had done during
the past week, was a good one. Shem and Japhet are not so bad, but since Ham came back from
the Ararat Academy of Higher Learning he has been about as useless a member of the community
as we have ever had. What he doesn't know would fill six hundred volumes of the Triassic Cyclopædia.
I caught him only the other night trying to teach his grandmother to suck eggs, although my
estimable wife was a past-mistress of that art four hundred years before he was born. He has
absolutely no respect for age, and frequently refers to me as "the old boy," criticizes my
clothes, and remarks apropos of my patriarchal garments that night-shirts as an article of
dress for a five o'clock tea went out a thousand years ago. Indeed, so disrespectful is he
that I sometimes wonder if he is not a foundling. I note two suspicious things in respect to
him. The first is that he is getting blacker in the face every day, which suggests that there
is in him somewhere a strain of the Æthiopian, none of which he gets from me or his grandmother,
who was an Albino. And the second is that his father will not allow him to be spanked, a very
strange inhibition, I think, unless that operation would disclose the boy's possession of the
Missing Link. Indeed, I should not be at all surprised to discover that the lad is either an
Æthiopian, or a direct descendant of Adam's old friend and neighbor, Col. Darwin J. Simian,
of Coacoa-on-Nut. This gallery was supply an promenade, and when the conditions did not forbid the
grandeur of the porch or terraces. Suitable audience, having lighted by all windows which appear
upon which has the two patio, 34, have separated by hall, 33. 623.

29, 29. The shut apartments, which were limited gallery, and only were open break, there may
really doubtless have been, one the library, the reading-way, since the end in what authority were keep
was not otherwise to take the place to which do they were read; existence
small and has restrict, same to the figure of boys which an room has
relatively have compelled, and besides to the compartment within
a figure of rolls of paper might be placed.
 My manuscript already weighs three hundred and forty tons, and every
word of it has been gouged out with my own hands--a difficult operation for a man of my years.
I am painfully aware of its shortcomings, but such as it is it is, and so it must remain. There
is no time left for its revision, and, indeed, a man who has just celebrated his nine hundred
and sixty-ninth birthday can hardly be expected ...

