"That's just what I was doing," said the man, joyously, "and it's the biggest luck in the world
that I've found you. My name is Lykins. I'm one of the teachers of the high school--San Francisco.
As soon as I heard the San Francisco postmastership was vacant, I made up my mind to get it--and
here I am."

"Yes," said Riley, slowly, "as you have remarked ... Mr. Lykins ... here you are. And have
you got it?"

"Well, not exactly GOT it, but the next thing to it. I've brought a petition, signed by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, and all the teachers, and by more than two hundred other
people. Now I want you, if you'll be so good, to go around with me to the Pacific delegation,
for I want to rush this thing through and get along home."

"If the matter is so pressing, you will prefer that we visit the delegation tonight," said
Riley, in a voice which had nothing mocking in it--to an unaccustomed ear.

"Oh, tonight, by all means! I haven't got any time to fool around. I want their promise before
I go to bed--I ain't the talking kind, I'm the DOING kind!"

"Yes ... you've come to the right place for that. When did you arrive?"

"Just an hour ago."

"When are you intending to leave?"

"For New York tomorrow evening--for San Francisco next morning."

"Just so.... What are you going to do tomorrow?"

"DO! Why, I've got to go to the President with the petition and the delegation, and get the
appointment, haven't I?"

"Yes ... very true ... that is correct. And then what?"

"Executive session of the Senate at 2 P.M.--got to get the appointment confirmed--I reckon
you'll grant that?"

"Yes ... yes," said Riley, meditatively, "you are right again. Then you take the train for
New York in the evening, and the steamer for San Francisco next morning?"

"That's it--that's the way I map it out!"

Riley considered a while, and then said:

"You couldn't stay ... a day ... well, say two days longer?"

"Bless your soul, no! It's not my style. I ain't a man to go fooling around--I'm a man that
DOES things, I tell you."

The storm was raging, the thick snow blowing in gusts. Riley stood silent, apparently deep
in a reverie, during a minute or more, then he looked up and said:

"Have you ever heard about that man who put up at Gadsby's, once? ... But I see you haven't."

He backed Mr. Lykins against an iron fence, buttonholed him, fastened him with his eye, like
the Ancient Mariner, and proceeded to unfold his narrative as placidly and peacefully as if
we were all stretched comfortably in a blossomy summer meadow instead of being persecuted by
a wintry midnight tempest:

"I will tell you about that man. It was in Jackson's time. Gadsby's was the principal hotel,
then. Well, this man arrived from Tennessee about nine o'clock, one morning, with a black coachman
and a splendid four-horse carriage and an elegant dog, which he was evidently fond of and proud
of; he drove up before Gadsby's, and the clerk and the landlord and everybody rushed out to
take charge of him, but he said, 'Never mind,' and jumped out and told the coachman to wait--

said he hadn't time to take anything to eat, he only had a little claim against the government
to collect, would run across the way, to the Treasury, and fetch the money, and then get right
along back to Tennessee, for he was in considerable of a hurry.

"Well, about eleven o'clock that night he came back and ordered a bed and told them to put
the horses up--said he would collect the claim in the morning. This was in January, you understand--January,
1834--the 3d of January--Wednesday.

"Well, on the 5th of February, he sold the fine carriage, and bought a cheap second-hand one--said
it would answer just as well to take the money home in, and he didn't care for style.

"On the 11th of August he sold a pair of the fine horses--said he'd often thought a pair was
better than four, to go over the rough mountain roads with where a body had to be careful about
his driving--and there wasn't so much of his claim but he could lug the money home with a pair
easy enough.

"On the 13th of December he sold another horse--said two warn't necessary to drag that old
light vehicle with--in fact, one could snatch it along faster than was absolutely necessary,
now that it was good solid winter weather and the roads in splendid condition.

"On the 17th of February, 1835, he sold the old carriage and bought a cheap second-hand buggy--said
a buggy was just the trick to skim along mushy, slushy early spring roads with, and he had
always wanted to try a buggy on those mountain roads, anyway.

"On the 1st August he sold the buggy and bought the remains of an old sulky--said he just wanted
to see those green Tennesseans stare and gawk when they saw him come a-ripping along in a sulky--didn't
believe they'd ever heard of a sulky in their lives.

"Well, on the 29th of August he sold his colored coachman--said he didn't need a coachman for
a sulky--wouldn't be room enough for two in it anyway--and, besides, it wasn't every day that
Providence sent a man a fool who was willing to pay nine hundred dollars for such a third-rate
negro as that--been wanting to get rid of the creature for years, but didn't like to THROW
him away.

"Eighteen months later--that is to say, on the 15th of February, 1837--he sold the sulky and
bought a saddle--said horseback-riding was what the doctor had always recommended HIM to take,
and dog'd if he wanted to risk HIS neck going over those mountain roads on wheels in the dead
of winter, not if he knew himself.

"On the 9th of April he sold the saddle--said he wasn't going to risk HIS life with any perishable
saddle-girth that ever was made, over a rainy, miry April road, while he could ride bareback
and know and feel he was safe--always HAD despised to ride on a saddle, anyway.

"On the 24th of April he sold his horse--said 'I'm just fifty-seven today, hale and hearty--it
would be a PRETTY howdy-do for me to be wasting such a trip as that and such weather as this,
on a horse, when there ain't anything in the world so splendid as a tramp on foot through the
fresh spring woods and over the cheery mountains, to a man that IS a man--and I can make my
dog carry my claim in a little bundle, anyway, when it's collected. So tomorrow I'll be up
bright and early, make my little old collection, and mosey off to Tennessee, on my own hind
legs, with a rousing good-by to Gadsby's.'

"On the 22d of June he sold his dog--said 'Dern a dog, anyway, where you're just starting off
on a rattling bully pleasure tramp through the summer woods and hills--perfect nuisance--chases
the squirrels, barks at everything, goes a-capering and splattering around in the fords--man
can't get any chance to reflect and enjoy nature--and I'd a blamed sight ruther carry the claim
myself, it's a mighty sight safer; a dog's mighty uncertain in a financial way--always noticed
it--well, GOOD-by, boys--last call--I'm off for Tennessee with a good leg and a gay heart,
early in the morning.'"

There was a pause and a silence--except the noise of the wind and the pelting snow. Mr. Lykins
said, impatiently:

"Well?"

Riley said:

"Well,--that was thirty years ago."

"Very well, very well--what of it?"

"I'm great friends with that old patriarch. He comes every evening to tell me good-by. I saw
him an hour ago--he's off for Tennessee early tomorrow morning--as usual; said he calculated
to get his claim through and be off before night-owls like me have turned out of bed. The tears
were in his eyes, he was so glad he was going to see his old Tennessee and his friends once more."

Another silent pause. The stranger broke it:

"Is that all?"

"That is all."

"Well, for the TIME of night, and the KIND of night, it seems to me the story was full long
enough. But what's it all FOR?"

"Oh, nothing in particular."

"Well, where's the point of it?"

"Oh, there isn't any particular point to it. Only, if you are not in TOO much of a hurry to
rush off to San Francisco with that post-office appointment, Mr. Lykins, I'd advise you to
'PUT UP AT GADSBY'S' for a spell, and take it easy. Good-by. GOD bless you!"

So saying, Riley blandly turned on his heel and left the astonished school-teacher standing
there, a musing and motionless snow image shining in the broad glow of the street-lamp.

He never got that post-office.

To go back to Lucerne and its fishers, I concluded, after about nine hours' waiting, that the
man who proposes to tarry till he sees something hook one of those well-fed and experienced
fishes will find it wisdom to "put up at Gadsby's" and take it easy. It is likely that a fish
has not been caught on that lake pier for forty years; but no matter, the patient fisher watches
his cork there all the day long, just the same, and seems to enjoy it. One may see the fisher-loafers
just as thick and contented and happy and patient all along the Seine at Paris, but tradition
says that the only thing ever caught there in modern times is a thing they don't fish for at
all--the recent dog and the translated cat.

CHAPTER XXVII

[I Spare an Awful Bore]

Close by the Lion of Lucerne is what they call the "Glacier Garden"--and it is the only one
in the world. It is on high ground. Four or five years ago, some workmen who were digging foundations
for a house came upon this interesting relic of a long-departed age. Scientific men perceived
in it a confirmation of their theories concerning the glacial period; so through their persuasions
the little tract of ground was bought and permanently protected against being built upon. The
soil was removed, and there lay the rasped and guttered track which the ancient glacier had
made as it moved along upon its slow and tedious journey. This track was perforated by huge
pot-shaped holes in the bed-rock, formed by the furious washing-around in them of boulders
by the turbulent torrent which flows beneath all glaciers. These huge round boulders still
remain in the holes; they and the walls of the holes are worn smooth by the long-continued
chafing which they gave each other in those old days.

It took a mighty force to churn these big lumps of stone around in that vigorous way. The neighboring
country had a very different shape, at that time--the valleys have risen up and become hills,
since, and the hills have become valleys. The boulders discovered in the pots had traveled
a great distance, for there is no rock like them nearer than the distant Rhone Glacier.

For some days we were content to enjoy looking at the blue lake Lucerne and at the piled-up
masses of snow-mountains that border it all around--an enticing spectacle, this last, for there
is a strange and fascinating beauty and charm about a majestic snow-peak with the sun blazing
upon it or the moonlight softly enriching it--but finally we concluded to try a bit of excursioning
around on a steamboat, and a dash on foot at the Rigi. Very well, we had a delightful trip
to Fluelen, on a breezy, sunny day. Everybody sat on the upper deck, on benches, under an awning;
everybody talked, laughed, and exclaimed at the wonderful scenery; in truth, a trip on that
lake is almost the perfection of pleasuring.

The mountains were a never-ceasing marvel. Sometimes they rose straight up out of the lake,
and towered aloft and overshadowed our pygmy steamer with their prodigious bulk in the most
impressive way. Not snow-clad mountains, these, yet they climbed high enough toward the sky
to meet the clouds and veil their foreheads in them. They were not barren and repulsive, but
clothed in green, and restful and pleasant to the eye. And they were so almost straight-up-and-down,
sometimes, that one could not imagine a man being able to keep his footing upon such a surface,
yet there are paths, and the Swiss people go up and down them every day.

Sometimes one of these monster precipices had the slight inclination of the huge ship-houses
in dockyards--then high aloft, toward the sky, it took a little stronger inclination, like
that of a mansard roof--and perched on this dizzy mansard one's eye detected little things
like martin boxes, and presently perceived that these were the dwellings of peasants--an airy
place for a home, truly. And suppose a peasant should walk in his sleep, or his child should
fall out of the front yard?--the friends would have a tedious long journey down out of those
cloud-heights before they found the remains. And yet those far-away homes looked ever so seductive,
they were so remote from the troubled world, they dozed in such an atmosphere of peace and
dreams--surely no one who has learned to live up there would ever want to live on a meaner level.

We swept through the prettiest little curving arms of the lake, among these colossal green
walls, enjoying new delights, always, as the stately panorama unfolded itself before us and
rerolled and hid itself behind us; and now and then we had the thrilling surprise of bursting
suddenly upon a tremendous white mass like the distant and dominating Jungfrau, or some kindred
giant, looming head and shoulders above a tumbled waste of lesser Alps.

Once, while I was hungrily taking in one of these surprises, and doing my best to get all I
possibly could of it while it should last, I was interrupted by a young and care-free voice:

"You're an American, I think--so'm I."

He was about eighteen, or possibly nineteen; slender and of medium height; open, frank, happy
face; a restless but independent eye; a snub nose, which had the air of drawing back with a
decent reserve from the silky new-born mustache below it until it should be introduced; a loosely
hung jaw, calculated to work easily in the sockets. He wore a low-crowned, narrow-brimmed straw
hat, with a broad blue ribbon around it which had a white anchor embroidered on it in front;
nobby short-tailed coat, pantaloons, vest, all trim and neat and up with the fashion; red-striped
stockings, very low-quarter patent-leather shoes, tied with black ribbon; blue ribbon around
his neck, wide-open collar; tiny diamond studs; wrinkleless kids; projecting cuffs, fastened
with large oxidized silver sleeve-buttons, bearing the device of a dog's face--English pug.
He carried a slim cane, surmounted with an English pug's head with red glass eyes. Under his
arm he carried a German grammar--Otto's. His hair was short, straight, and smooth, and presently
when he turned his head a moment, I saw that it was nicely parted behind. He took a cigarette
out of a dainty box, stuck it into a meerschaum holder which he carried in a morocco case,
and reached for my cigar. While he was lighting, I said:

"Yes--I am an American."

"I knew it--I can always tell them. What ship did you come over in?"

"HOLSATIA."

"We came in the BATAVIA--Cunard, you know. What kind of passage did you have?"

"Tolerably rough."

"So did we. Captain said he'd hardly ever seen it rougher. Where are you from?"

"New England."

"So'm I. I'm from New Bloomfield. Anybody with you?"

"Yes--a friend."

"Our whole family's along. It's awful slow, going around alone--don't you think so?"

"Rather slow."

"Ever been over here before?"

"Yes."

"I haven't. My first trip. But we've been all around--Paris and everywhere. I'm to enter Harvard
next year. Studying German all the time, now. Can't enter till I know German. I know considerable
French--I get along pretty well in Paris, or anywhere where they speak French. What hotel are
you stopping at?"

"Schweitzerhof."

"No! is that so? I never see you in the reception-room. I go to the reception-room a good deal
of the time, because there's so many Americans there. I make lots of acquaintances. I know
an American as soon as I see him--and so I speak to him and make his acquaintance. I like to
be always making acquaintances--don't you?"

"Lord, yes!"

"You see it breaks up a trip like this, first rate. I never got bored on a trip like this,
if I can make acquaintances and have somebody to talk to. But I think a trip like this would
be an awful bore, if a body couldn't find anybody to get acquainted with and talk to on a trip
like this. I'm fond of talking, ain't you?

"Passionately."

"Have you felt bored, on this trip?"

"Not all the time, part of it."

"That's it!--you see you ought to go around and get acquainted, and talk. That's my way. That's
the way I always do--I just go 'round, 'round, 'round and talk, talk, talk--I never get bored.
You been up the Rigi yet?"

"No."

"Going?"

"I think so."

"What hotel you going to stop at?"

"I don't know. Is there more than one?"

"Three. You stop at the Schreiber--you'll find it full of Americans. What ship did you say
you came over in?"

"CITY OF ANTWERP."

"German, I guess. You going to Geneva?"

"Yes."

"What hotel you going to stop at?"

"Hôtel de l'Écu de Génève."

"Don't you do it! No Americans there! You stop at one of those big hotels over the bridge--they're
packed full of Americans."

"But I want to practice my Arabic."

"Good gracious, do you speak Arabic?"

"Yes--well enough to get along."

"Why, hang it, you won't get along in Geneva--THEY don't speak Arabic, they speak French. What
hotel are you stopping at here?"

"Hotel Pension-Beaurivage."

"Sho, you ought to stop at the Schweitzerhof. Didn't you know the Schweitzerhof was the best
hotel in Switzerland?-- look at your Baedeker."

"Yes, I know--but I had an idea there warn't any Americans there."

"No Americans! Why, bless your soul, it's just alive with them! I'm in the great reception-room
most all the time. I make lots of acquaintances there. Not as many as I did at first, because
now only the new ones stop in there--the others go right along through. Where are you from?"

"Arkansaw."

"Is that so? I'm from New England--New Bloomfield's my town when I'm at home. I'm having a
mighty good time today, ain't you?"

"Divine."

"That's what I call it. I like this knocking around, loose and easy, and making acquaintances
and talking. I know an American, soon as I see him; so I go and speak to him and make his acquaintance.
I ain't ever bored, on a trip like this, if I can make new acquaintances and talk. I'm awful
fond of talking when I can get hold of the right kind of a person, ain't you?"

"I prefer it to any other dissipation."

"That's my notion, too. Now some people like to take a book and sit down and read, and read,
and read, or moon around yawping at the lake or these mountains and things, but that ain't
my way; no, sir, if they like it, let 'em do it, I don't object; but as for me, talking's what
I like. You been up the Rigi?"

"Yes."

"What hotel did you stop at?"

"Schreiber."

"That's the place!--I stopped there too. FULL of Americans, WASN'T it? It always is--always
is. That's what they say. Everybody says that. What ship did you come over in?"

"VILLE DE PARIS."

"French, I reckon. What kind of a passage did ... excuse me a minute, there's some Americans
I haven't seen before."

And away he went. He went uninjured, too--I had the murderous impulse to harpoon him in the
back with my alpenstock, but as I raised the weapon the disposition left me; I found I hadn't
the heart to kill him, he was such a joyous, innocent, good-natured numbskull.

Half an hour later I was sitting on a bench inspecting, with strong interest, a noble monolith
which we were skimming by--a monolith not shaped by man, but by Nature's free great hand--a
massy pyramidal rock eighty feet high, devised by Nature ten million years ago against the
day when a man worthy of it should need it for his monument. The time came at last, and now
this grand remembrancer bears Schiller's name in huge letters upon its face. Curiously enough,
this rock was not degraded or defiled in any way. It is said that two years ago a stranger
let himself down from the top of it with ropes and pulleys, and painted all over it, in blue
letters bigger than those in Schiller's name, these words: "Try Sozodont;" "Buy Sun Stove Polish;"
"Helmbold's Buchu;" "Try Benzaline for the Blood." He was captured and it turned out that he
was an American. Upon his trial the judge said to him:

"You are from a land where any insolent that wants to is privileged to profane and insult Nature,
and, through her, Nature's God, if by so doing he can put a sordid penny in his pocket. But
here the case is different. Because you are a foreigner and ignorant, I will make your sentence
light; if you were a native I would deal strenuously with you. Hear and obey: --You will immediately
remove every trace of your offensive work from the Schiller monument; you pay a fine of ten
thousand francs; you will suffer two years' imprisonment at hard labor; you will then be horsewhipped,
tarred and feathered, deprived of your ears, ridden on a rail to the confines of the canton,
and banished forever. The severest penalties are omitted in your case--not as a grace to you,
but to that great republic which had the misfortune to give you birth."

The steamer's benches were ranged back to back across the deck. My back hair was mingling innocently
with the back hair of a couple of ladies. Presently they were addressed by some one and I overheard
this conversation:

"You are Americans, I think? So'm I."

"Yes--we are Americans."

"I knew it--I can always tell them. What ship did you come over in?"

"CITY OF CHESTER."

"Oh, yes--Inman line. We came in the BATAVIA--Cunard you know. What kind of a passage did you
have?"

"Pretty fair."

"That was luck. We had it awful rough. Captain said he'd hardly seen it rougher. Where are
you from?"

"New Jersey."

"So'm I. No--I didn't mean that; I'm from New England. New Bloomfield's my place. These your
children?--belong to both of you?"

"Only to one of us; they are mine; my friend is not married."

"Single, I reckon? So'm I. Are you two ladies traveling alone?"

"No--my husband is with us."

"Our whole family's along. It's awful slow, going around alone--don't you think so?"

"I suppose it must be."

"Hi, there's Mount Pilatus coming in sight again. Named after Pontius Pilate, you know, that
shot the apple off of William Tell's head. Guide-book tells all about it, they say. I didn't
read it--an American told me. I don't read when I'm knocking around like this, having a good
time. Did you ever see the chapel where William Tell used to preach?"

"I did not know he ever preached there."

"Oh, yes, he did. That American told me so. He don't ever shut up his guide-book. He knows
more about this lake than the fishes in it. Besides, they CALL it 'Tell's Chapel'--you know
that yourself. You ever been over here before?"

"Yes." This book's Otto's grammar. It's a mighty good book to get the ICH HABE GEHABT HABEN's
out of. But I don't really study when I'm knocking around this way. It's awful undermining
to the intellect, German is; you want to take it in small doses, or first you know your brains
all run together, and you feel them sloshing around in your head same as so much drawn butter.
But French is different; FRENCH ain't anything. I ain't any more afraid of French than a tramp's
afraid of pie; I can rattle off my little J'AI, TU AS, IL A, and the rest of it, just as easy
as a-b-c. I get along pretty well in Paris, or anywhere where they speak French. What hotel
are you stopping at?"

"The Schweitzerhof."

"No! is that so? You been up the Rigi yet?"

"No."

"Going?"

"We think of it."

"What hotel you going to stop at?"

"I don't know."

"Well, then you stop at the Schreiber--it's full of Americans. What ship did you come over in?"

"CITY OF CHESTER."

"Oh, yes, I remember I asked you that before. But I always ask everybody what ship they came
over in, and so sometimes I forget and ask again. You going to Geneva?"

"Yes."

"What hotel you going to stop at?"

"We expect to stop in a pension."

"I don't hardly believe you'll like that; there's very few Americans in the pensions. What
hotel are you stopping at here?"

"The Schweitzerhof."

"Oh, yes. I asked you that before, too. But I always ask everybody what hotel they're stopping
at, and so I've got my head all mixed up with hotels. But it makes talk, and I love to talk.
It refreshes me up so--don't it you--on a trip like this?"

"Yes--sometimes."

"Well, it does me, too. As long as I'm talking I never feel bored--ain't that the way with you?"

"Yes--generally. But there are exception to the rule."

"Oh, of course. I don't care to talk to everybody, MYSELF. If a person starts in to jabber-jabber-jabber
about scenery, and history, and pictures, and all sorts of tiresome things, I get the fan-tods
mighty soon. I say 'Well, I must be going now--hope I'll see you again'--and then I take a
walk. Where you from?"

"New Jersey."

"Why, bother it all, I asked you THAT before, too. Have you seen the Lion of Lucerne?"

"Not yet."

"Nor I, either. But the man who told me about Mount Pilatus says it's one of the things to
see. It's twenty-eight feet long. It don't seem reasonable, but he said so, anyway. He saw
it yesterday; said it was dying, then, so I reckon it's dead by this time. But that ain't any
matter, of course they'll stuff it. Did you say the children are yours--or HERS?"

"Mine."

"Oh, so you did. Are you going up the ... no, I asked you that. What ship ... no, I asked you
that, too. What hotel are you ... no, you told me that. Let me see ... um .... Oh, what kind
of voy ... no, we've been over that ground, too. Um ... um ... well, I believe that is all.
BONJOUR--I am very glad to have made your acquaintance, ladies. GUTEN TAG."

CHAPTER XXVIII

[The Jodel and Its Native Wilds]

The Rigi-Kulm is an imposing Alpine mass, six thousand feet high, which stands by itself, and
commands a mighty prospect of blue lakes, green valleys, and snowy mountains--a compact and
magnificent picture three hundred miles in circumference. The ascent is made by rail, or horseback,
or on foot, as one may prefer. I and my agent panoplied ourselves in walking-costume, one bright
morning, and started down the lake on the steamboat; we got ashore at the village of Waeggis;
three-quarters of an hour distant from Lucerne. This village is at the foot of the mountain.

We were soon tramping leisurely up the leafy mule-path, and then the talk began to flow, as
usual. It was twelve o'clock noon, and a breezy, cloudless day; the ascent was gradual, and
the glimpses, from under the curtaining boughs, of blue water, and tiny sailboats, and beetling
cliffs, were as charming as glimpses of dreamland. All the circumstances were perfect--and
the anticipations, too, for we should soon be enjoying, for the first time, that wonderful
spectacle, an Alpine sunrise--the object of our journey. There was (apparently) no real need
for hurry, for the guide-book made the walking-distance from Waeggis to the summit only three
hours and a quarter. I say "apparently," because the guide-book had already fooled us once--about
the distance from Allerheiligen to Oppenau--and for aught I knew it might be getting ready
to fool us again. We were only certain as to the altitudes--we calculated to find out for ourselves
how many hours it is from the bottom to the top. The summit is six thousand feet above the
sea, but only forty-five hundred feet above the lake. When we had walked half an hour, we were
fairly into the swing and humor of the undertaking, so we cleared for action; that is to say,
we got a boy whom we met to carry our alpenstocks and satchels and overcoats and things for
us; that left us free for business. I suppose we must have stopped oftener to stretch out on
the grass in the shade and take a bit of a smoke than this boy was used to, for presently he
asked if it had been our idea to hire him by the job, or by the year? We told him he could
move along if he was in a hurry. He said he wasn't in such a very particular hurry, but he
wanted to get to the top while he was young.

We told him to clear out, then, and leave the things at the uppermost hotel and say we should
be along presently. He said he would secure us a hotel if he could, but if they were all full
he would ask them to build another one and hurry up and get the paint and plaster dry against
we arrived. Still gently chaffing us, he pushed ahead, up the trail, and soon disappeared.
By six o'clock we were pretty high up in the air, and the view of lake and mountains had greatly
grown in breadth and interest. We halted awhile at a little public house, where we had bread
and cheese and a quart or two of fresh milk, out on the porch, with the big panorama all before
us--and then moved on again.

Ten minutes afterward we met a hot, red-faced man plunging down the mountain, making mighty
strides, swinging his alpenstock ahead of him, and taking a grip on the ground with its iron
point to support these big strides. He stopped, fanned himself with his hat, swabbed the perspiration
from his face and neck with a red handkerchief, panted a moment or two, and asked how far to
Waeggis. I said three hours. He looked surprised, and said:

"Why, it seems as if I could toss a biscuit into the lake from here, it's so close by. Is that
an inn, there?"

I said it was.

"Well," said he, "I can't stand another three hours, I've had enough today; I'll take a bed there."

I asked:

"Are we nearly to the top?"

"Nearly to the TOP? Why, bless your soul, you haven't really started, yet."

I said we would put up at the inn, too. So we turned back and ordered a hot supper, and had
quite a jolly evening of it with this Englishman.

The German landlady gave us neat rooms and nice beds, and when I and my agent turned in, it
was with the resolution to be up early and make the utmost of our first Alpine sunrise. But
of course we were dead tired, and slept like policemen; so when we awoke in the morning and
ran to the window it was already too late, because it was half past eleven. It was a sharp
disappointment. However, we ordered breakfast and told the landlady to call the Englishman,
but she said he was already up and off at daybreak--and swearing like mad about something or
other. We could not find out what the matter was. He had asked the landlady the altitude of
her place above the level of the lake, and she told him fourteen hundred and ninety-five feet.
That was all that was said; then he lost his temper. He said that between ------fools and guide-books,
a man could acquire ignorance enough in twenty-four hours in a country like this to last him
a year. Harris believed our boy had been loading him up with misinformation; and this was probably
the case, for his epithet described that boy to a dot.

We got under way about the turn of noon, and pulled out for the summit again, with a fresh
and vigorous step. When we had gone about two hundred yards, and stopped to rest, I glanced
to the left while I was lighting my pipe, and in the distance detected a long worm of black
smoke crawling lazily up the steep mountain. Of course that was the locomotive. We propped
ourselves on our elbows at once, to gaze, for we had never seen a mountain railway yet. Presently
we could make out the train. It seemed incredible that that thing should creep straight up
a sharp slant like the roof of a house--but there it was, and it was doing that very miracle.

In the course of a couple hours we reached a fine breezy altitude where the little shepherd
huts had big stones all over their roofs to hold them down to the earth when the great storms
rage. The country was wild and rocky about here, but there were plenty of trees, plenty of
moss, and grass.

Away off on the opposite shore of the lake we could see some villages, and now for the first
time we could observe the real difference between their proportions and those of the giant
mountains at whose feet they slept. When one is in one of those villages it seems spacious,
and its houses seem high and not out of proportion to the mountain that overhangs them--but
from our altitude, what a change! The mountains were bigger and grander than ever, as they
stood there thinking their solemn thoughts with their heads in the drifting clouds, but the
villages at their feet--when the painstaking eye could trace them up and find them--were so
reduced, almost invisible, and lay so flat against the ground, that the exactest simile I can
devise is to compare them to ant-deposits of granulated dirt overshadowed by the huge bulk
of a cathedral. The steamboats skimming along under the stupendous precipices were diminished
by distance to the daintiest little toys, the sailboats and rowboats to shallops proper for
fairies that keep house in the cups of lilies and ride to court on the backs of bumblebees.

Presently we came upon half a dozen sheep nibbling grass in the spray of a stream of clear
water that sprang from a rock wall a hundred feet high, and all at once our ears were startled
with a melodious "Lul ... l ... l l l llul-lul-LAhee-o-o-o!" pealing joyously from a near but
invisible source, and recognized that we were hearing for the first time the famous Alpine
JODEL in its own native wilds. And we recognized, also, that it was that sort of quaint commingling
of baritone and falsetto which at home we call "Tyrolese warbling."

The jodeling (pronounced yOdling--emphasis on the O) continued, and was very pleasant and inspiriting
to hear. Now the jodeler appeared--a shepherd boy of sixteen--and in our gladness and gratitude
we gave him a franc to jodel some more. So he jodeled and we listened. We moved on, presently,
and he generously jodeled us out of sight. After about fifteen minutes we came across another
shepherd boy who was jodeling, and gave him half a franc to keep it up. He also jodeled us
out of sight. After that, we found a jodeler every ten minutes; we gave the first one eight
cents, the second one six cents, the third one four, the fourth one a penny, contributed nothing
to Nos. 5, 6, and 7, and during the remainder of the day hired the rest of the jodelers, at
a franc apiece, not to jodel any more. There is somewhat too much of the jodeling in the Alps.

About the middle of the afternoon we passed through a prodigious natural gateway called the
Felsenthor, formed by two enormous upright rocks, with a third lying across the top. There
was a very attractive little hotel close by, but our energies were not conquered yet, so we
went on.

Three hours afterward we came to the railway-track. It was planted straight up the mountain
with the slant of a ladder that leans against a house, and it seemed to us that man would need
good nerves who proposed to travel up it or down it either.

