     The burden of the Clemens household had fallen almost entirely upon
     Clara Clemens.  In addition to supervising its customary affairs,
     she also shouldered the responsibility of an unusual combination of
     misfortunes, for besides the critical condition of her mother, her
     sister, Jean Clemens, was down with pneumonia, no word of which must
     come to Mrs. Clemens.  Certainly it was a difficult position.

     The accumulation of physical ailments in the Clemens home had
     somewhat modified Mark Twain's notion of medical practice.  He was
     no longer radical; he had become eclectic.  It is a good deal of a
     concession that he makes to Twichell, after those earlier letters
     from Sweden, in which osteopathy had been heralded as the anodyne
     for all human ills.

Mr. Rogers was to sail southward this morning--and here is this weather! I am sorry. I think
it's a question if he gets away tomorrow.

                              Ys Ever
                                        MARK.

     It was through J. Y. M. MacAlister, to whom the next letter is
     written, that Mark Twain had become associated with the Plasmon
     Company, which explains the reference to "shares."  He had seen much
     of MacAlister during the winter at Tedworth Square, and had grown
     fond of him.  It is a characteristic letter, and one of interesting
     fact.

*****

To J. Y. M. MacAlister, in London:

                                                  RIVERDALE, NEW YORK.
                                                       April, 7, '03.

DEAR MACALISTER,--Yours arrived last night, and God knows I was glad to get it, for I was afraid
I had blundered into an offence in some way and forfeited your friendship--a kind of blunder
I have made so many times in my life that I am always standing in a waiting and morbid dread
of its occurrence.

Three days ago I was in condition--during one horribly long night--to sympathetically roast
with you in your "hell of troubles." During that night I was back again where I was in the
black days when I was buried under a mountain of debt. I called the daughters to me in private
council and paralysed them with the announcement, "Our outgo has increased in the past 8 months
until our expenses are now 125 per cent. greater than our income."

It was a mistake. When I came down in the morning a gray and aged wreck, and went over the
figures again, I found that in some unaccountable way (unaccountable to a business man but
not to me) I had multiplied the totals by 2.

Certainly there is a blistering and awful reality about a well-arranged unreality.

Clam spells the trained nurse afternoons; I am allowed to see Mrs. Clemens 20 minutes twice
a day and write her two letters a day provided I put no news in them. No other person ever
sees her except the physician and now and then a nerve-specialist from New York. She saw there
was something the matter that morning, but she got no facts out of me. But that is nothing--she
hasn't had anything but lies for 8 months. A fact would give her a relapse. It seems early
to do this, but Joan Bergheim thought it would be wise.

He and his wife lunched with us here yesterday. They have been abroad in Havana 4 months, and
they sailed for England this morning.

I am enclosing an order for half of my (your) Founders shares. You are not to refuse them this
time, though you have done it twice before. They are yours, not mine, and for your family's
sake if not your own you cannot in these cloudy days renounce this property which is so clearly
yours and theirs. You have been generous long enough; be just, now to yourself. Mr. Rogers
is off yachting for 5 or 6 weeks--I'll get them when he returns. The head of the house joins
me in warmest greetings and remembrances to you and Mrs. MacAlister.

                         Ever yours,
                                        Mark.

May 8. Great Scott! I never mailed this letter! I addressed it, put "Registered" on it--then
left it lying unsealed on the arm of my chair, and rushed up to my bed quaking with a chill.
I've never been out of the bed since--oh, bronchitis, rheumatism, two sets of teeth aching,
land, I've had a dandy time for 4 weeks. And to-day--great guns, one of the very worst!...

I'm devilish sorry, and I do apologise--for although I am not as slow as you are about answering
letters, as a rule, I see where I'm standing this time.

Two weeks ago Jean was taken down again--this time with measles, and I haven't been able to
go to her and she hasn't been able to come to me.

But Mrs. Clemens is making nice progress, and can stand alone a moment or two at a time.

Now I'll post this.

                                   MARK

     The two letters that follow, though written only a few days apart,
     were separated in their arrival by a period of seven years.  The
     second letter was, in some way, mislaid and not mailed; and it was
     not until after the writer of it was dead that it was found and
     forwarded.

     Mark Twain could never get up much enthusiasm for the writings of
     Scott.  His praise of Quentin Durward is about the only approval he
     ever accorded to the works of the great romanticist.

*****

To Brander Matthews, in New York:

                                             NEW YORK CITY, May 4, '03.

13. He was great, in his day, and to his proper audience; and so was God in Jewish times, for
that matter, but why should either of them rank high now? And do they?--honest, now, do they?
Dam'd if I believe it.

My, I wish I could see you and Leigh Hunt!

                                      Sincerely Yours
                                             S. L. CLEMENS.

*****

To Brander Matthews, in New York:

                              RIVERDALE, May 8,'03 (Mailed June, 1910).

                                   Yrs ever
                                             MARK.

     In 1903, preparations were going on for a great world's fair, to be
     held in St. Louis, and among other features proposed was a World's
     Literary Convention, with a week to be set apart in honor of Mark
     Twain, and a special Mark Twain Day in it, on which the National
     Association would hold grand services in honor of the distinguished
     Missourian.  A letter asking his consent to the plan brought the
     following reply.

*****

To T. F. Gatts, of Missouri:

                                                  NEW YORK, May 30, 1903.

                              Very truly yours,
                                        S. L. CLEMENS.

     The National Mark Twain Association did not surrender easily.  Mr.
     Gatts wrote a second letter full of urgent appeal.  If Mark Twain
     was tempted, we get no hint of it in his answer.

*****

To T. F. Gatts, of Missouri:

                                             NEW YORK, June 8, 1903. With sincere thanks to you and your associates for this high
compliment which you have been minded to offer me, I am,

                                   Very truly yours,
                                             S. L. CLEMENS.

     We have seen in the letter to MacAlister that Mark Twain's wife had
     been ordered to Italy and plans were in progress for an
     establishment there.  By the end of June Mrs. Clemens was able to
     leave Riverdale, and she made the journey to Quarry Farm, Elmira,
     where they would remain until October, the month planned for their
     sailing.  The house in Hartford had been sold; and a house which,
     prior to Mrs. Clemens's breakdown they had bought near Tarrytown
     (expecting to settle permanently on the Hudson) had been let.  They
     were going to Europe for another indefinite period.

     At Quarry Farm Mrs. Clemens continued to improve, and Clemens, once
     more able to work, occupied the study which Mrs. Crane had built for
     him thirty years before, and where Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn and the
     Wandering Prince had been called into being.

*****

To Rev. J. H. Twichell, in Hartford, Conn.:

                                             QUARRY FARM, ELMIRA, N. Y.,
                                                       July 21, '03.

DEAR JOE,--That love-letter delighted Livy beyond any like utterance received by her these
thirty years and more. I was going to answer it for her right away, and said so; but she reserved
the privilege to herself.

Did you ever go house-hunting 3,000 miles away? It costs three months of writing and telegraphing
to pull off a success. We finished 3 or 4 days ago, and took the Villa Papiniano (dam the name,
I have to look at it a minutes after writing it, and then am always in doubt) for a year by
cable. Three miles outside of Florence, under Fiesole--a darling location, and apparently a
choice house, near Fiske.

There's 7 in our gang. All women but me. It means trunks and things. But thanks be! To-day
(this is private) comes a most handsome voluntary document with seals and escutcheons on it
from the Italian Ambassador (who is a stranger to me) commanding the Customs people to keep
their hands off the Clemens's things. Now wasn't it lovely of him? And wasn't it lovely of
me to let Livy take a pencil and edit my answer and knock a good third of it out?

And that's a nice ship--the Irene! new--swift--13,000 tons--rooms up in the sky, open to sun
and air--and all that. I was desperately troubled for Livy--about the down-cellar cells in
the ancient "Latin."

The cubs are in Riverdale, yet; they come to us the first week in August.

               With lots and lots of love to you all,
                                        MARK.

     The arrangement for the Villa Papiniano was not completed, after
     all, and through a good friend, George Gregory Smith, a resident of
     Florence, the Villa Quarto, an ancient home of royalty, on the hills
     west of Florence, was engaged.  Smith wrote that it was a very
     beautiful place with a south-eastern exposure, looking out toward
     Valombrosa and the Chianti Hills.  It had extensive grounds and
     stables, and the annual rental for it all was two thousand dollars a
     year.  It seemed an ideal place, in prospect, and there was great
     hope that Mrs. Clemens would find her health once more in the
     Italian climate which she loved.

     Perhaps at this point, when Mark Twain is once more leaving America,
     we may offer two letters from strangers to him--letters of
     appreciation--such as he was constantly receiving from those among
     the thousands to whom he had given happiness.  The first is from
     Samuel Merwin, one day to become a popular novelist, then in the
     hour of his beginnings.

*****

To Mark Twain, from Samuel Merwin:

                                                       PLAINFIELD, N. J.
                                                       August 4, 1903.

DEAR MR. CLEMENS,--For a good many years I have been struggling with the temptation to write
you and thank you for the work you have done; and to-day I seem to be yielding.

During the past two years I have been reading through a group of writers who seem to me to
represent about the best we have--Sir Thomas Malory, Spenser, Shakespeare, Boswell, Carlyle,
Le Sage. In thinking over one and then another, and then all of them together, it was plain
to see why they were great men and writers: each brought to his time some new blood, new ideas,--turned
a new current into the stream. I suppose there have always been the careful, painstaking writers,
the men who are always taken so seriously by their fellow craftsmen. It seems to be the unconventional
man who is so rare--I mean the honestly unconventional man, who has to express himself in his
own big way because the conventional way isn't big enough, because ne needs room and freedom.

We have a group of the more or less conventional men now--men of dignity and literary position.
But in spite of their influence and of all the work they have done, there isn't one of them
to whom one can give one's self up without reservation, not one whose ideas seem based on the
deep foundation of all true philosophy,--except Mark Twain.

I hope this letter is not an impertinence. I have just been turning about, with my head full
of Spenser and Shakespeare and "Gil Blas," looking for something in our own present day literature
to which I could surrender myself as to those five gripping old writings. And nothing could
I find until I took up "Life on the Mississippi," and "Huckleberry Finn," and, just now, the
"Connecticut Yankee." It isn't the first time I have read any of these three, and it's because
I know it won't be the last, because these books are the only ones written in my lifetime that
claim my unreserved interest and admiration and, above all, my feelings, that I've felt I had
to write this letter.

I like to think that "Tom Sawyer" and "Huckleberry Finn" will be looked
upon, fifty or a hundred years from now, as the picture of buoyant,
dramatic, human American life. I feel, deep in my own heart, pretty
sure that they will be. They won't be looked on then as the work of a
"humorist" any more than we think of Shakespeare as a humorist now.
I don't mean by this to set up a comparison between Mark Twain and
Shakespeare: I don't feel competent to do it; and I'm not at all sure
that it could be done until Mark Twain's work shall have its fair share
of historical perspective. But Shakespeare was a humorist and so, thank
Heaven! is Mark Twain. And Shakespeare plunged deep into the deep, sad
things of life; and so, in a different way (but in a way that has more
than once brought tears to my eyes) has Mark Twain. But after all,
it isn't because of any resemblance for anything that was ever before
written that Mark Twain's books strike in so deep: it's rather because
they've brought something really new into our literature--new, yet old
as Adam and Eve and the Apple. And this achievement, the achievement
of putting something into literature that was not there before, is, I
should think, the most that any writer can ever hope to do. It is the
one mark of distinction between the "lonesome" little group of big men
and the vast herd of medium and small ones. Anyhow, this much I am sure
of--to the young man who hopes, however feebly, to accomplish a little
something, someday, as a writer, the one inspiring example of our time
is Mark Twain.                         Very truly yours,
                                        SAMUEL MERWIN.

Mark Twain once said he could live a month on a good compliment, and from his reply, we may
believe this one to belong in, that class.

*****

To Samuel Merwin, in Plainfield, N. J.:

                                                       Aug.  16, '03.

DEAR MR. MERWIN,--What you have said has given me deep pleasure--indeed I think no words could
be said that could give me more.

                              Very sincerely yours,
                                             S. L. CLEMENS.

     The next "compliment" is from one who remains unknown, for she
     failed to sign her name in full.  But it is a lovely letter, and
     loses nothing by the fact that the writer of it was willing to
     remain in obscurity.

*****

To Mark Twain, from Margaret M----:

                                                  PORTLAND, OREGON
                                                  Aug. 18, 1903.

