And that the third command was, for the earth to bring forth the beasts thereof, and every
creeping thing thereon. Here the "rock-and earth-forming" power of life ceased, and the language
of the genesis changes. It is no longer "Let the earth bring forth," but let the Divine energy
intervene!

"Let us (the divine Trinity in Unity) make man in our own image"--after our own conception
of what he should be--the being of two worlds, the material and spiritual; and man was made
accordingly. God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became a "living soul."
This is the record--brief, grand, historic. No "evolution," no "involution," no word without
sense or meaning. He who was to have dominion, in his limited sphere, over all the earth, thus
came in due time for a wiser and grander purpose than man has yet seen; but which, in the providence
of God and the light of His word, he will yet come to see, as scientific truth advances with
the march of religious knowledge. Heaven speed the day when this millennium of truth shall
dawn upon us here!

In this remarkable genesis we have a bridge that spans the chasm between the man and the anthropoid
ape as no other bridge spans it. It is a bridge over which is flung the living garment of God,
and angelic hosts may pass it to and fro, as well as the master-minds of our own and future
ages. It takes man out of the category of a "beast of the earth," and places him where all
soul-aspiration lifts us--lifts even Robert G. Ingersoll, in his higher inspirational moods,
or will lift him when his extreme material dogmatisms and false teachings desert him, as we
trust they some day will. Let him read the "Student," by Bulwer, and he will learn how narrowly
Voltaire escaped becoming a "Reformer" in the Church of England, instead of the violent antagonist
he was of the corrupt Church of Rome in France. We do not make ourselves; it is the environing
circumstances and conditions in which we are placed which oftentimes determine our career for
good or for evil.

We had proposed embodying in this Preface one or two caustic reviews of our late work, from
an Agnostic source, but have been deterred from so doing, for the reason that we deem it in
bad taste as well as irrelevant at this late day. We shall be pardoned, however, in alluding
to The National Quarterly Review, for the captious manner in which it treated us after we had
courteously replied to several inquiries made of us in its two- or three-page review. After
complaining that we had been "hailed, by a class of callow religious critics, as a 'Savior'
from scientific error and enormities," it charged us with certain unscrupulous methods of criticism,--such
as putting language into Mr. Darwin's mouth that he never thought of uttering, etc., etc. And
as this pretentious Quarterly put several questions to us, such as "When and where the great
Evolutionist had taught any such doctrine as this?" we ventured to reply as courteously as
we knew how. We endeavored to treat our reviewer fairly, as he had handsomely accorded to us
the credit of "searching the fields of natural science, lance in hand, to deal hard thrusts
at impious skeptics, materialists, and evolutionists--of which Mr. Darwin and Mr. Bastian fare
the most severely." But we had no thought of using these offensive adjectives toward either
of the distinguished gentlemen named, and did not so use them; however "unscrupulous" our methods
may have been in other respects. Our reply was unnoticed by the bulky Quarterly, and we were
content with knowing that it was received by its editor, and shared the fate of all intrusive
communications which it is easier to throw into the waste-basket, especially in hot weather,
than to answer in the interests of science, when such answers are difficult to be made. This
was the first and only discussion we attempted to provoke with our "exhaustive Reviewers,"
and it will, in all probability, be the last. Little is gained by these polemical controversies,
when conducted in the spirit of unfairness, or with greater asperity than the true interests
of journalism demand. The beauty of its kindly advice to us, as a "scientific critic," was
that every word of it came back, as a cruel boomerang, into the writer's own face.

But this is enough. For the last three years we have been mostly engaged in writing another
book, the character of which is already sufficiently indicated in this Preface. The reasons
why we have been led to adhere to our original purpose of making this a "Bible Genesis," as
The National Quarterly Review speaks of it, are best known to our more intimate friends, and
we do not propose to disappoint them in their expectations.

If we have failed to make our theory understood by others, we regret it; if others fail to
understand the inspired text, it is manifestly a matter for them to regret, and for us to deplore.

To those who have spoken kindly of "Life: Its True Genesis," we return our thanks: to those
who have extended to it their sharpest criticisms, in what they believe the true interests
of science, we also return our thanks. We have no fear that Truth will be crushed in this contest:

  "Truth crushed to earth shall heavenward rise again,
  Like wayside flowers that lift their heads, aglow
  With a far sweeter fragrance when they've been
  All rudely trampled on by hostile foe,
  Than when in Flora's gentle arms they've lain
  The long night through, and wake at early dawn
  To greet Aurora--jewelled queen of morn!"

R. W. Wright.

West Cheshier, Conn., Oct. 12, 1883.

Prefatory.

The office of a preface is twofold; first, to introduce the author to the public; second, to
introduce his work. As the writer seeks no personal introduction, beyond what a favorable or
unfavorable reception of his work may give him, he leaves the more formal, if not formidable
branch of salutation untouched.

The work has cost him some labor, as the reader will see. The field he has traversed is vast
and varied, and the facts he has gathered are numerous and from many and diversified sources--all
bearing more or less conclusively on the one vital point he seeks to establish, viz: That the
primordial germs (meaning germinal principles of life) of all living things, man alone excepted,
are in themselves upon the earth, and that they severally make their appearance, each after
its kind, whenever and wherever the necessary environing conditions exist.

The foundation of this emphatic formula we find in the Bible Genesis, in the words given on
our title-page, which are more accurately translated in the Septuagint, than in our common
English version of the Old Testament. The words are to be found in the 11th verse of the first
chapter of Genesis, and the writer confidently believes that they contain the true Genesis
of Life, although entirely overlooked, heretofore, by both the biblical and scientific scholar.

In the work which he here gives to the public, he will endeavor to show that all the vital
phenomena of our globe, with the single exception named, find their complete explication in
this Genesis of Life; and that we have only to take the scientific Genesis out of some of its
more imposing categories, to make the two either entirely harmonize, or fall into the same
lines of incidence in human thought.

Science has long taught that the absence of necessary physiological conditions results everywhere
in the disappearance of vital phenomena; by reversing its logical methods, it will also find
that the presence of these necessary conditions results everywhere in the appearance of vital
phenomena. Take, for instance, the vegetation of Northern Europe, where it is known that the
oak succeeded the pine, and the beech the oak, after each had held possession of the soil for
we know not how many thousand years. In bringing about the necessary conditions of soil, the
pine paved the way for the oak, and that in turn paved the way for the beech. Neither sprang
from the other, nor did the "selection of the fittest" have anything to do with the appearance
or disappearance of either. Each yielded fruit "after his kind," whose "seed" (germinal principle
of life) was in itself, i.e., after its own kind, upon the earth, and made its appearance spontaneously,--that
is, without the presence of natural seed,--whenever the necessary environing conditions favored.

And the same law of vegetal propagation is everywhere operative to-day, in the alternations
of forest growths, the spontaneous appearance of oak forests where pine have been cleared away,
and vice versa, in some parts of the country, where heavy forests of oak timber have been felled.
So with the new growths of timber springing up in the paths of tornadoes, over large burnt
districts, in soils brought up from below the last glacial drift, and in hundreds of other
instances which the reader will find conclusively verified in these pages,--all making their
appearance without the possible intervention of natural seeds.

The great value of the Septuagint, as compared with other versions of the Hebrew Bible, will
appear from the fact that it is older by many hundred years than any manuscript copy of the
Hebrew text now extant. It was undoubtedly translated at Alexandria, in Egypt, as early as
the third century before Christ, while the oldest known Hebrew MS. is a Pentateuch roll dating
no further back than A. D. 580. Its translators had before them much older and more perfect
MSS. than any that survived to the time of the masoretic recension, when an attempt was made
to give uniformity to the readings and renderings of the Hebrew text by means of the vowel
points, diacritical signs, terminal letters, etc., all of which are now subject to rejection
by the best Oriental scholarship.

According to IrenA|us, this Greek version was rendered at the request of Ptolemy Lagi, in order
to add to the treasures of the Alexandrian library, and it no doubt derived its name from the
number of Hebrew and Hellenistic scholars,--probably the most eminent to be found in that day,--employed
upon the work. The version comes, therefore, with paramount authority to our own times; and
we accept its Greek rendering as the highest and most conclusive evidence of the authenticity
of the text, and the "new genesis of life" we derive therefrom.

ILIEuroI-II1/4I+- (as contained in the Septuagint) has almost an identical signification with
the Hebrew word ZRA. It means the "germ of anything," or the "germinal principle of life,"
as contained in anything that lives or grows. No one will claim that it is used in its literal
sense of "seed," in the text. For, when the divine command was issued, there was no plant or
tree, and, presumably, had been none upon the earth from which seed could have been derived.
The word was used in its larger and more comprehensive (that is, metaphorical) sense, as the
"germinal principle of life in matter," or precisely in the sense in which the Greek stoics
used it in their philosophy. Both Theophrastus and Diogenes use the terms IfIEuroI muII1/4I+-I"a?1/2II?a1/2
I cubedIOEI cubedI?I expressing "the laws of generation contained in matter"--precisely the
meaning we attach to it in its textual connection.

We accept this rendering of "the seventy," because they had the most complete and perfect Hebrew
MSS. before them, and were no doubt better scholars, and far more competent renderers of the
original text than the Masorites who came some seven or eight hundred years after them.

But this is not the most important point of inquiry in this connection. The materialistic objector
may say: "Admit all this; grant that the true rendering is here given; grant even that the
true law of vegetal development and growth is here enunciated; what has 'star-eyed science'
to do with the 'odium theologicum?'" We answer, nothing. We would bury both theological rancor
and atheistical pretension in the same barrow, and agree never to "peep and botanize" over
their common grave. But if a great scientific principle--one that fits into all the phenomenal
facts of nature--explains them all, and is, in turn, explained by them--be found in the Hebrew
Hagiographa, of what less value is it to science than if it had been originally enunciated
by Aristotle or Plato? Or--to make the inquiry still sharper and more emphatic--of what less
value is it to science than if it had originally come from Professor Tyndall or Mr. Herbert
Spencer?

Take the "biblical genesis" as we have enunciated and explained it--with all the facts crowded
into these explanatory pages--and science has no longer any genetic mystery to brood over,
further than that every operation of nature is a mystery into which it is useless for scientific
speculation to pry. We know what nature does, or may know it by the proper scrutiny, but we
shall never know the causes of things, any more than we shall find God at the bottom of Herbert
Spencer's crucible, or at the top of his ladder of synthesis. In the light of the Bible genesis,
science can account for the origin of the stalwart oak or the lordly pine, without going back
to any mycological or cryptogamic forms, to follow down an ever-changing vital plexus that
is as likely to land in a buttonwood tree as an oak, or in a hemlock as a pine,--in fact, quite
as likely to land in a carnivorous animal as in an insectivorous plant. "Let the earth bring
forth," is still the eternal fiat,--just as implicitly obeyed to-day as it was in the world's
primeval history, when an exuberance of endogenous vegetation laid the foundation of the coal
measures. It requires no greater effort on the part of nature to produce the pine, the oak,
the beech, the hickory--all of which we see springing directly from primordial germs to-day--than
it did to produce the lowest vegetal organism, from an invisible, indestructible "vital unit,"
or Darwinian gemmule, thousands of years ago.

He who is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever, and in whose sight a thousand years are
but as yesterday, knows no such "law of variability" as our materialistic friends have been
spinning for us in their unverified theories of evolution, natural selection, selection of
the fittest, rejection of the unfit--force-correlations, molecular machinery, transmutation
of physical forces, differentiation, dynamical aggregates, molA(C)cules organiques, potentiated
sky-mist, undifferentiated "life-stuff," and other hylotheistic and purely hypothetical formulA|,
with which the average mind has been well-nigh crazed for the last fifteen or twenty years.

Believing that the time has come to call for "a halt" in scientific speculations, and a return
to the phenomenal facts of nature as the true and only basis on which to formulate the immutable
laws of life, matter, motion, etc., the writer submits this volume with trustful confidence
to the public. [1]

R. W. Wright.

West Cheshire, Conn.

True Genesis.

Chapter I.

Introductory.

It is undeniably true that the progress of scientific thought and speculative inquiry, both
in this country and in Europe, is rapidly tending towards a purely materialistic view of the
universe, or one that utterly excludes the ancient and long-predominating metaphysical conceptions
of Life, to say nothing of the more regnant and universally prevailing conception of a God.
And it is quite as undeniable that the current of experimental research and investigation is
setting, with equal rapidity, in the same direction. According to the views of many of our
more advanced chemists, physiologists, and other scientific and speculative writers and thinkers--those
whose experimental investigations have, it is claimed, reached the ultimate implications of
all material substance--there are but two immutable, indestructible, and thoroughly persistent
elements in the universe--Matter and Motion. Everything else, they confidently assert, is either
purely phenomenal, or else essentially mutable, ephemeral, transitory. Force, according to
their theory, is only another name for motion or its correlates, and, hence, the two terms
are interchangeably used by them in predicating their ultimate conclusions respecting matter.

Light, heat, electricity, magnetism, chemical affinity, molecular force, and even life itself,
are only so many manifestations or expressions, they claim, of one and the same force in the
universe--Motion, With the exception of matter, it is the only self-persistent, permanently
enduring, ever active and reactive agency.

Light, they say, is dependent, heat conditional, electricity and magnetism more or less phenomenal,
chemical affinity and molecular force mere modes or correlated forms of motion, and all-pervading
life itself a mere postulate of the schools, or at best only the result of the dynamic force
of molecules.

Deem not this collocation simply a burlesque on Scientific categories. Professor Bastian, in
his great work on the "Beginnings of Life," has unhesitatingly said: "The 'vitalists' must
give up their last stronghold--we cannot even grant them a right to assume the existence of
a special 'vital force' whose peculiar office it is to effect the transformation of physical
forces. The notion that such a force does exist, is based on no evidence; it is a mere postulate.
The assumption of its existence carries with it nothing but confusion and contradiction, because
the very supposition that it exists, and does so act, is totally averse to the general doctrine
of the correlation of forces."

And this defiant challenger of the "vitalists," who thus half-sneeringly speaks of those who
believe that the vital forces of the universe are among the highest potential factors expressed
therein, is one who, for the last decade and a half, has mostly lived in the ephemeromorphic
world, and who, in diving into the "beginnings of life," has so far lost his way that the all-glorious
end of it is as much an inexplicable mystery to him now, as when he was more successfully expounding
pathological anatomy and ruthlessly hacking away at anatomical subjects over the dissecting-slab
of the London University College. Had he spent less time over this dissecting-slab, and more
in studying the marvellous manifestations of life in its outspoken beauty of leaf, bud, flower,
fruit--things of not mere guess and fancy--he would undoubtedly have had a higher appreciation
of what is most vital in nature, and less of what is simply material in a non-functional sense.
With Mr. Herbert Spencer, he gratuitously sneers at the "old specific-creation hypothesis,"
or the divine fiat in the beginning; but without that fiat, where would he find his ephemeromorphs?
or even the dead tissues used in his organic infusions for the vainest of all human endeavors--that
of producing life, or seeking to produce it, de novo? He is so immeasurably disgusted with
the vitalists that he hardly allows himself to speak of "life" or even use the term "vital"
as applied to its simplest manifestations, without quotationizing them as terms to provoke
both incredulity and derision.

The world may, however, overlook much of this in him, in view of his past professional pursuits,
as well as in consideration of his eminent services as a specialist in science. The dissecting-room
of a university is not the most desirable place in the world for profoundly studying the vital
forces of nature. It is too grim and ghastly a repository of dead men's skulls, and "holes
where eyes did once inhabit," in which to regard "life's enchanting cup" as one sparkling to
the brim. Detaching a muscle here, and laying bare another there; taking out a sightless eye
in one subject, and putting the dissecting-knife deep into the pulseless heart of another;
cutting the fragments of a human body into shreds and tatters over one dissecting-slab, and
loading down another with splintered bones and mangled hands and limbs, is not exactly the
sort of occupation to enkindle the highest enthusiasm for "life," in any of its more manifold
phases in nature. Too many lifeless notions get crammed into the head--to say nothing of baffled
endeavor in the pursuit--to admit of the more conclusive and satisfactory inductions respecting
living organisms.

But why should an assumption of the existence of life carry with it any greater "confusion
and contradiction," than a like assumption respecting either matter or motion? Simply because
the materialists insist, in their logical inductions, upon so distributing the terms of their
syllogism that only a negative conclusion shall follow.

"Matter and motion," they say, are alone indestructible.

Life is neither matter nor motion,

Therefore: Life is not indestructible.

This syllogism is manifestly unanswerable, if there be no fallacy in the distribution of its
major and minor terms. But wherein lies the incompatibility of reversing the order of its terms,
so as to prove that neither matter nor motion is indestructible? And would such a judgment,
thus derived, be any more spurious, the process of reasoning any more illicit, or the conclusion
any less unanswerable? We might as well say that neither matter nor motion is an absolute entity
in the universe, without some apprehensive intelligence, or rational intuition therein, to
embrace them as distinct concepts or objects of thought; nor can either have the least conceivable
attribute without some co-existing intelligence to ascribe it. For to ascribe an attribute,
is to conceive or think of such attribute. And as our general conceptions are conceded to be
realities, even by the materialists themselves, it necessarily follows that this conscious
ego--this thing that conceives, thinks, ascribes attributes--is either co-existent with matter,
or else antedates it in the order of existence. And here--at this identical point in the argument--we
are irresistibly forced back, in our inductive processes, to the theological conception of
a God--the one supreme Ego of the universe--from whom alone all our intuitions of consciousness,
as well as apprehensive intelligence, is derived.

We can no more get rid of these inductive processes than we can change the order of nature
or reverse the inevitable laws of thought. Hence, we are constantly driven to formulate the
following, or some equivalent inductions:--

1. Cause must exist before effect.

2. Without some vital principle, therefore, preA"xisting as a cause, there can be no life-manifestation.

3. But there can be no life-manifestation without organic structure.

4. The reverse of this proposition is also true.

5. Which, therefore, precedes the other as a cause, and which follows as an effect?

6. Nothing can organize itself. To do so, it must contain within itself both the operating
cause and the resulting effect, which is at once an incongruent and conflictive judgment.

7. But the thing that organizes must exist before the thing organized, whether it be a vital
principle or an intelligent agency.

8. Hence Life, either as a preA"xisting cause or vital agency, must precede both animal and
vegetal organism.

Again:--

9. Cause is that which operates to produce an effect, as effect is that which is produced by
an operating cause.

10. But whatever operates to produce a life-manifestation must precede it as an operating cause.

11. Life, therefore, whether as a blind or intelligent force or agency, must precede its own
manifestation; that is, must exist as an operating cause before there is any produced effect.

12. And this is true both as regards physical and moral effects.

13. Our intuitions, as the final arbiters of judgment, demand this or some equivalent order
as the only one embraced in a logical praxis.

And since there can be no sound without an ear to appreciate it, so there be can no matter
without an existing ego, in some state of consciousness in the universe, to apprehend it--to
ascribe to it attributes.[2] On what, therefore, are we to predicate the existence of either
matter or motion, except it be these intuitions of consciousness whose validity, so far as
we have any knowledge whatever on the subject, rests exclusively on that "breath of life,"
which was breathed into man when he became a living soul? But if our intuitions are not realities,
then nothing is a reality. All is as unsubstantial, as vague and shadowy, as Coleridge's "image
of a rock," or Bishop Berkeley's "ghost of a departed quantity," as he once defined a fluxion.
We may, therefore, retort upon Professor Bastian:--The "materialists," must give up their last
stronghold--we cannot even grant them a right to assume the existence of either matter or motion,
since both manifestly depend, for their slightest manifestation, upon the more potent agency
of "vital force," as expressed in thought, volition, and consciousness--that triumvirate of
the intellectual faculties without which neither matter nor motion could have so much as a
hypothetical existence.

The great trouble with Professor Bastian, as with Mr. Herbert Spencer, is that he advances
a purely materialistic hypothesis, and then goes to work, with his quantitative and conditional
restrictions, to eliminate all vital force from the universe. As he has been no more successful
in finding God--the Infinite source of all life--at the point of his dissecting-knife, than
has the speculative chemist at the bottom of his crucible, or Mr. Spencer at the top of his
ladder of synthesis, he resolutely grapples with logic, as a last resort, and as remorselessly
syllogizes God out of the universe as he would a mythological demon infecting the atmosphere
of his dissecting-room. In the same way, he successfully syllogizes all life out of existence:
although, in the very act of constructing his syllogism, he demonstrates its existence as conclusively
as that matter and motion are objective realities in the world of mind and matter which is
about him. He fails to see, however, that the thing which demonstrates must necessarily precede
the thing demonstrated, as life must necessarily precede its manifestation. In admitting the
existence of "vital manifestation," therefore, he virtually admits an antecedent vital principle,
lying back of an effect as a cause, which must exclude anything like a contradictory judgment,
so long as the laws of the human mind, in respect to logical antecedents and consequents, remain
as they are.

Whatever may be the alleged inaccuracies of the Bible Genesis or the disputes heretofore indulged
in respecting the Hagiographa, or "sacred writings" of the Jews, it will hardly be denied by
the Biblical scholar that some of the most important discoveries in modern science, especially
in the direction of astronomy, as well as in geological research and inquiry, confirm rather
than throw doubt upon their more explicit utterances. This has been so marked a feature in
the controversy, that whenever scientific speculation has thrown down any fresh gage of battle,
as against the validity of these "sacred writings," the advocates of the latter have only had
to take it up to dispel the mists of controversy and achieve a more conclusive triumph than
ever. For the truth of this statement it is only necessary for us to instance a few of the
more important facts contained in the Bible Genesis. And should it be found that the writer
of this volume has discovered, in a long overlooked, much neglected, and inaccurately translated
passage of this Genesis, a key that unlocks the whole "mystery of life," as the great battle
is now waging between the materialists and vitalists of this country and Europe, it will most
conclusively establish the point we shall here make--that in no equally limited compass, in
ancient or modern manuscript or published volume, since the first dawn of letters to the present
time, are there to be found so many conclusively established facts of genuine scientific value
as in the first chapter of Genesis.

In dispelling the mists of prejudice, and possibly of doubtful translation, let us look this
"genesis" squarely in the face:--

1. Take the statement that "in the beginning" the earth was without form and void, and darkness
rested upon the face of the depths. Here is not only no conflict with science, but the great
suggestive fact which led Laplace to construct his "Nebular Hypothesis," or that magnificent
system of world-structures which regards the universe as originally consisting of uniformly
diffused matter filling all space, and hence "without form and void," but which subsequently
became aggregated by gravitation into an infinite number of sun-systems, occupying inconceivably
vast areas in space.

2. Nor can science well afford to cavil at that other most important suggestive statement that
"the spirit of God"--the great formative force of the universe--moved upon the face of the
depths, after which the evening and the morning were the first day, that is, the first distinctive
epoch in the order of creation. When materialistic science shall define "gravitation"--the
supposed aggregating force of infinitely diffused matter in space--so as to make it a distinct
and separate factor in the universe from "the spirit of God,"--that spirit which was breathed
into man when he became a living soul, and which, we are told, "upholds the order of the heavens,"
then its devotees may sneer at the Bible Genesis, and the logical deductions to be drawn therefrom.

3. Again, science can have no conflict with the Bible Genesis, except in the most hypercritical
way, in the affirmative statement that God set two great lights in the firmament, the one to
rule the day and the other to rule the night; and that "he made the stars also." For it is
nowhere stated that the "greater light" was not made to perform a similar office for each of
the other planets of our system, or that it was not set in the firmament to adorn the skies
of other and far-distant worlds, as "bright Arcturus, fairest of the stars," adorns our own.

4. Nor can materialistic science dispute the more explicitly revealed fact, that the order
of creation, so far at least as animal and vegetable life are concerned, is precisely that
to be found in geological distribution, or as unerringly recorded in the lithographic pages
of nature. And yet nothing was known of these pages--not a leaf had been turned back--at the
time the Bible Genesis was written. So that, whoever was its author, this precise order of
distribution could only have been "guessed at," setting aside its inspirational claims, by
the writer of this most remarkable genesis.

5. And again, science can have no successful conflict--certainly none in which she will ultimately
come off victor--in reference to the equally explicit statement that every living thing, and
every living creature, either yields seed, bears fruit, or brings forth issue, "after his kind,"
and distinctively none other. For this would seem to be the one inflexible law governing all
living organisms, from which there can be no divergence in any such sense as the "scientific
genesis," pretentiously so called, would authoritatively indicate. No "increase in variety,"
which Mr. Spencer regards as the "essential characteristic of all progress," will ever enable
us "to gather grapes from thorns or figs from thistles."

6. Nor will materialistic science ever succeed in overthrowing the Bible theory herein advanced,
that "the germs of all living things, man only excepted, are in themselves (that is, each after
its kind) upon the earth," and that they severally make their appearance whenever the necessary
environing conditions occur. This most remarkable statement of the Bible genesis will be found
to fit into all the vital phenomena occurring upon our globe, explaining the appearance of
infusoria, all mycological and cryptogamic forms, as well as all vegetal and animal organisms.
All these come from "the earth wherein there is life," and hence the divine command for the
earth "to bring forth" every living thing (except man) "after his kind."

But let us embrace, in the proper antithetical summary of statements, some of the more distinctive
points of antagonism between the Bible genesis and that of materialistic science:--

THE BIBLE GENESIS.

1. The Bible Genesis presents the theological conception of a God, or an Infinite Intelligence
in the universe, with whom, as personified, there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.

2. The Bible Genesis represents every living thing as perfect of its kind, which the earth
was commanded to bring forth from seed or "germs," declared to be in themselves upon the earth.

3. The Bible Genesis represents God as causing to grow, out of the ground, every tree that
is "pleasant to the sight and good for food," also every plant of the field "before it was
in the earth," and every herb of the field "before it grew."

4. The Bible Genesis represents God as causing the waters of the earth to bring forth abundantly
great whales and every living creature that moveth therein, and every winged fowl that flieth
above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

5. The Bible Genesis represents God as causing the earth to bring forth every living creature
"after his kind," enumerating them in the order in which they appear in geological distribution.

6. The Bible Genesis represents God as making man in his own image, after he had commanded
the waters and the earth to bring forth abundantly of every other living creature.

7. The Bible Genesis represents God as breathing into man "the breath of life," and he became
a "living soul,"

8. The Bible Genesis represents God as creating the earth for the abode of man--giving him
dominion over the fish of the sea, the fowl of the air, the beasts of the earth, and of every
living thing that creepeth upon the face of the earth.

9. The Bible genesis represents God as exercising a moral government over man, to the exclusion
of every other living creature.

10. In fine, the Bible Genesis represents man as only "a little lower than the angels."

THE SCIENTIFIC GENESIS.

1. The Scientific genesis virtually eliminates the idea of a God from the universe, by assigning
to natural causes all the diversified and myriad-formed phases and changes that have taken
place therein, extending through an infinite duration of past time, and constantly confronted
by an infinite duration of time to come.

2. The Scientific Genesis represents every living thing as more or less imperfect of its kind,
but advancing towards perfection by some underlying law of variability or selection of the
fittest, or by gradual development from lower into higher organisms.

3. The Scientific Genesis emphatically repudiates the idea of any divine agency in the growth
of plants and trees, and insists that "life," in all its manifold phases, is only "an undiscovered
correlative of motion," or, at best, only a sort of tertium quid between matter and motion.

4. The Scientific Genesis represents all fishes, amphibia, reptiles, birds, etc., as travelling
along their respective lines of developmental progress and differentiation, from points far
back in geologic time, and constantly working their way up from cold and flabby creatures into
those of higher cerebral activity, and brighter and more varied life, until gigantic winged
reptiles mounted into the air and became birds.

5. The Scientific Genesis attributes the appearance of every living creature upon the earth
to a law of "evolution," by which one thing constantly overlaps another, forming a sort of
stairway for lower organisms to climb into higher, without regard to "kind," or even orders,
genera, or species.

6. The Scientific Genesis distinctly takes issue with that of the Bible respecting the divine
origin of man, and insists that he has been climbing up from protoplasmic matter, through a
thousand other and lower organisms, until he finally leaped from an anthropoid ape into man.

7. The Scientific Genesis emphatically repudiates the idea of a soul as thus derived, and even
insists that "conscience," the highest known moral factor in the universe, is only a modified
expression of the social instincts of the lower animals--the difference being in degree only,
not in kind.

8. The Scientific Genesis promptly takes issue with this creative plan and purpose--insisting,
in the dazzling speculations and fancies of its adherents, that well known physical and physiological
laws have worked out all these phenomenal aspects and changes, and that these laws are wholly
indifferent as to whether man shall have dominion over the shark and the tiger, or they dominion
over him.

9. The Scientific Genesis illogically insists that "natural laws,"--those expressing no sovereign
will, and having "no seat in the bosom of God"--are fully adequate for the government of man,
he exercising to that end all the higher powers with which, by evolutional changes, he has
become endowed.

10. While the Scientific Genesis represents him as only a little higher than the apes!

And yet no scientific authority has ever been claimed for these sacred Hebrew writings. They
were simply designed as a rule of human faith and conduct, ostensibly having the divine sanction,
and containing historical, devotional, didactic, and prophetical writings, to be read through,
at least once a year, in the Jewish synagogues.

But the most important of these antithetical statements, so far at least as modern scientific
research and inquiry are concerned, is that which represents the germs of all living things--man
alone excepted--as being implanted in the earth itself. We take the definition of the Hebrew
word ZRA, translated "seed" in the 11th verse of the 1st chapter of Genesis, from Professor
Edward Leigh, of Magdalen Hall, Oxford, in his "Critica Sacra," first published in 1662:--"Sparsit,
asparsit, cum aspersione fudit, diffudit," etc, that is, "something sown, scattered, universally
diffused, everywhere implanted," as a germ in the earth. That the Hebrew word ZRA. does not
mean, in this connection, the seed of a plant or tree, is manifest from the fact that the first
plant or tree, from which "seed" could have been derived, had not yet appeared upon the earth.

The exact translation is, "whose primordial germs are in themselves (that is, each after its
kind) upon the earth," implanted therein, as the "diversa diversorum viventium primordia" of
Dr. William Harvey, were originally implanted in the earth. This illustrious physician and
biologist, the discoverer of the circulation of the blood, not only taught the doctrine expressed
in his phrase "omne vivum ex ovo," but that of "primordial germs"--living indestructible "principles
of life"--existing in the earth itself. For it is evident that he uses the word "egg," in its
more general sense, as designating any material substance capable of receiving his "primordium"
(first principle of life) and developing itself into a living organism.

The whole controversy, as at present conducted by the materialists and vitalists, resolves
itself into this one question:--Whether life springs from what Dr. Harvey calls a "primordium,"--a
pre-existing vital germ or unit--or whether it originates de novo, as the materialists assert,
from infusions contained in their experimental flasks, or from plastide particles contained
in protoplasmic matter, or from the still more daring hypothesis of "molecular machinery" as
worked by molecular force? It is certain that the materialistic theory is quite as inexplicable,
on the basis of analogical reasoning and microscopical investigation, as that indicated in
the Bible Genesis; while the vitalistic theory would seem to be more in harmony with vital
phenomena, and hence the more rational hypothesis of the two. Besides, the Bible Genesis answers
to the logical necessity of predicating a determinate cause for each and every vital effect,
or each living organism apparently springing from plasmic conditions or mere structureless
matter. Whenever the seeds of plants or trees are actually planted or sown in the earth, this
logical necessity rests on an induction impregnably laid in cause and effect; while the materialistic
dogma, nihil ex nihilo, would necessitate a like induction wherever seed is not sown. In either
case the change that ensues is manifestly due to vital properties, whether the same be inhering
in the seed, or in necessary environing conditions. And the vital processes are the same, with
the single difference as to actual environment.

The germ in the seed is capable of assimilating, by well-determined and thoroughly specialized
processes, the nutrient matter contained in its environment, precisely as the "primordial germ"
develops under its environing conditions. From the moment they strike their rootlets into the
ground, the processes of development and growth are the same. The only point, however, necessary
to make in this connection, is, that when we go back to the first living organism of a species--its
primordially developed form--we necessarily reach environing conditions within which there
is no such thing as a germ-cell with an exterior environment corresponding to the testa of
seeds, or to any conceivable notion we may have of seeds themselves.

At this point--one not merely theoretical, or speculatively possible only, but absolutely fixed
and determinable in our backward survey of the vital forces of nature--we find individual parentage
lost in a natural matrix, or in the vital principle implanted as a "primordium," in the earth
itself. To this inevitable induction of Dr. Harvey we are all driven in the end, by those intuitive
processes of reasoning which are hardly less conclusive than mathematical induction itself.
We may call these "primordia viventium" plastide particles, bioplasts, vital units, or whatsoever
we will,--the name is nothing, the working process is everything. Scientific speculation accomplishes
nothing, therefore, by its new terminology, except it be to confound the ignorant and astonish
the wise. To call the homogeneous basis of an egg "blastima," and its germinal point a "blastid,"
is all well enough in its way; but it adds no new knowledge, nor additional wealth of language,
wherewith to predicate vital theories, whether they relate to the progeny of a hen-coop or
the lair of a tiger in an Indian jungle.

Teach us to know what nature does, not what she is; and whatever of "divine revelation" is
vouchsafed us, whether it be found in the majestic "Poem of the Dawn," attributed to the inspired
pen of Moses, in the "myriad-minded Shakespeare," or the irradiated and deeply-prophetic soul
of a Shelley, let us accept it with thanks, if not to the inspired authors themselves, at least
to "the great Giver of life" who imparted their inspiration.

We accept the theory of "primordial germs," not simply because it is contained in the Bible
Genesis, nor because it was conceived by the great and gifted Harvey as a possible solution
of the whole difficulty, but because it presents, as we have before said, a satisfactory explanation
of all the phenomenal facts of life with which we are acquainted. If Mr. Herbert Spencer will
descend from his stilted theory of "molecular machinery worked by molecular force," and tell
us what it all means; and, at the same time, turn us out a single plastide particle, or fungus
spore, by any generating process referable to "the machinery" in question, we will as devoutly
worship Matter and Motion as ever ancient Egyptian did the god Osiris. But until he does this,
we prefer to accept the positive assurance of Professor Lionel S. Beale, a far more competent
authority to speak of hypothetical molecules, that none of the "forces possessed by the molecules
of which the primitive nebulosity of the universe was composed" ever produced a vital manifestation,
or succeeded in "making life a slave to force." We shall consider this question of "molecular
force" in its proper place, and with reference to the different theories of life advanced by
the materialists, without pursuing it further in this connection.

The evidence we shall present in reference to the alternations of forest growths, and the impossibility
of accounting for them on any theory of seed-distribution--alternations covering, in many instances,
independent forests springing up on a vast scale--and the still wider dispersion of domestic
weeds, grasses, forage plants, etc. in localities where they were never known before, will
be conclusive, we think, of the correctness of our position, that the Bible Genesis contains
the true key to the mystery of life. Bear in mind that the true theory of life, whenever it
shall be reached in human conception and formulated into definitely-known processes of action,
must satisfactorily explain all life-manifestations, as Newton's theory of gravitation accounts
for the movements of all celestial bodies. And the simpler the theory when once formulated--the
more perfectly it falls into the grooves of definitely-expressed thought, and the more harmoniously
it adapts itself to all vital manifestations--the more conclusive must be the induction on
which it rests.[3] The emphatic statement that the "primordial germs" of all living things
are in the earth, from the lowest infusorial form to the highest vital organism below "specifically-created"
man, when supplemented by the scientific statement that "vital units" make their appearance
whenever environing conditions favor, is conclusively a theory which accounts for all the life-manifestations
heretofore occurring upon our globe.

And this theory falls at once into the necessary categories of human thought. Life, as generally
defined, is a state of organized being wherein there is functional activity; while a state,
or status, is an incidence determined by environing conditions. But back of each of these--life
and its status--there must lie some efficient cause, producing, in the first instance, the
environing conditions, and then the functional activity dependent on organization. To assume
that this efficient cause is simply the effect or result of organization--one of its dependent
conditions--is begging the whole question, and, at the same time, discarding a very important
element in the problem--that of conditional environment. What this efficient cause is, is a
question that awakens no responsive inquiry. It strikes its roots too deeply into the intuitions
of consciousness for the soul to give back an intelligible reply. Certain it is that neither
metaphysical speculation, nor scientific inquiry, will ever enable us to reach the roots of
this question, or extract from them the first quantitive essence of life itself.

We shall also consider, in their proper place, the various theories of life which have been
advanced from time to time by the materialists, in their avowed hostility to current religious
beliefs, and especially those founded on the sacred Hebrew writings, and the supplementary
teachings of the New Testament. And to show the extent of this hostility, and the real animus
of those waging it, it is only necessary to refer to the great central doctrine of the Sacred
Scriptures, that Life--natural, spiritual, eternal--is "the gift of God." And this is the grand
corner-stone of all religious edifices--those erected by the Egyptians, the Assyrians, the
Phoenicians, the Greeks, and even the inhabitants of farther India. Materialistic science must,
therefore, deal its first and most effective blows at "Life," either as a theory to be resolutely
assailed and overthrown, or else thoroughly ignored and set aside, in the more imposing and
august temple of Science. Hence, the reader will find, in none of the great encyclopedias prepared
under the supervision of scientific men, the slightest mention whatever of "Life" as a subject
worthy of consideration at their hands. It finds, of course, its meagre definitional place
in the dictionaries, but the bulky and more exhaustive encyclopedias have no room for it, except
as it may be defined, under some correlate of motion, as "the latent possibility of a nebula,"
or of "undifferentiated primeval mist," originally pervading the interplanetary spaces.

We have no disposition to charge such materialists as Professors Tyndall, Bastian, Haeckel,
Virchow, and Mr. Herbert Spencer, with directing their experimental batteries against the phenomenal
facts of "life" for the purpose of overthrowing the foundations of religious faith and belief
in the world. They are all eminent scientists, and apparently earnest seekers after truth in
the several directions in which their respective paths of investigation have been pursued.
But they manifestly array their opinions against the vitalists on the assumption that there
is no scientific value whatever in the many and singularly diversified statements respecting
"life" in both the Old and New Testaments. And this, it may be claimed, is necessitated by
the generally accepted dogma, that science and religion are more or less hostile, the former
resting on the inexorable logic of facts only, and the latter entirely on preconceived and
prejudicial notions respecting faith and belief. To this position of theirs we have no objection
to make, so long as they subject their scientific statements to the one rigid ordeal of positively
ascertained facts. But when they set themselves to spinning their theories of life on the strength
of "nebular potentialities," and the possibilities of "undifferentiated sky mist," we must
insist that they are infinitely wider of the mark than the theologians who claim that the great
formative power of the universe is God, and that his "spirit," and not gravitation, "upholds
the order of the heavens:"--certainly much wider of the mark than was Pope, when he wrote of
the universe:--

  "All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
  Whose body nature is, and God the soul."

The truth is, that religion is quite as much the handmaid of science as science can be said
to be the handmaid of religion. She breathes far more household laws for her devotees, if she
does not veil her "sacred fires" more modestly from the sight of men. She is certainly less
dogmatic, less dictatorial, less abounding in positive assertion, than what now passes for
"science," in the popular estimation. Perhaps Mr. Herbert Spencer represents the scientific
side of a greater number of questions agitating the public mind to-day, than any other one
man, and he is still industriously engaged in solving, or endeavoring to solve, a greater number
of social problems. And yet the most enthusiastic admirer of this gentleman will be forced
to admit, when driven to the wall of actual controversy, that one-half, if not two-thirds,
of his more formidable statements, put forth in the name of science, remain undemonstrated
as scientific truths. We are thankful enough, however, for the one-third he has vouchsafed
us to let the other two-thirds pass as the dogmatic achievements of his wonderfully gifted pen.

Professor Beale asks the question, whether "a man who has the gift of science must ever be
wanting in the gift of faith?" It is certain that this inquiry sharply emphasizes the antagonism
at present existing between materialistic science and religious faith. But there is only one
reason why this antagonism should be continued, and that is, the persistent claim of science
to superior recognition in all cases where there is the slightest apparent conflict between
the two. Certainly no man ever did more to popularize the genuine truths of science in this
country than Professor Agassiz, or worked more successfully to that end. He was willing to
place the decorative wreath on the starry forehead of science, but refused to pluck from the
soul "the starry eyes of faith and hope," that man might be dwarfed down to the "nearest of
kin" to the anthropoid ape.

When we come to this assumed relationship in genetic types, we have not so much as laid the
first abutment of the bridge by which these revivers of Lucretian materialism would span the
chasm between mind and matter, between the spiritual and physical side of man, between dark
brute sense and "a soul as white as heaven." For going back to undifferentiated primeval mist,
and following down the whole line of vital phenomena, from whatever subtle molecular combinations
their first manifestation may have arisen, until we reach the highest differentiated organism
below man, we shall find the chasm between the physical and the psychical not a thousandth
part spanned. And even if man, with the assistance of all the maleficent spirits that "walk
the air both when we wake and sleep," could span this chasm, it would be only by another bridge
of Mirza across which no daring mortal could ever pass.

Mr. Herbert Spencer, in his "Principles," thinks he has mastered the necessary psychological,
if not mechanical, engineering for the successful construction of this bridge. In that branch
of his work entitled the "Principles of Psychology," he so far abandons the exact scientific
method as to take up psychical phenomena, and deal with them genetically, as he would with
the phenomenal manifestations of organic life, in the continuous chain of ideas every where
presented as consecutive thoughts in the universe. He finds, or claims to find, in these psychical
manifestations, a constant tendency towards differentiation--towards advanced and continuously
advancing differences, varieties, and new modes of thought--the same as, or similar to, those
taking place in living organisms. He accordingly assumes, for the science of mind, as complete
a foundation on which to base the doctrine of "evolution," as in the case of either physical
or physiological science. But he is no less troubled, in this psychological realm, with divergent
varieties, and exceptional variations and changes, than when he plants himself on the more
solid substratum of life in the abounding realm of nature. His psychological differentiations
present too many and constantly-shifting divergencies and re-divergences--exceptional branchings
in one direction, and still more exceptional in another--to admit of any sufficiently potentiated
potentiality for bridge timber. The arch to such a bridge would have to abut, according to
Professor Tyndall, on a vital foundation at one end, and spring from undifferentiated sky-mist
at the other.

The bridge will never be built.

Chapter II.

Life--Its True Genesis.

The profound Newton did not attempt to show what the gravitative force of the universe was.
He bore himself more modestly, only endeavoring to show that such a force existed, and that
it accounted for all the movements of celestial bodies, even to their slightest perturbations.
He frankly admitted his inability to determine what this force was, but by observations and
calculations made with the greatest care, he ascertained that its action upon matter was proportional
to its mass directly, and to the square of its distance inversely; and, with the requisite
data and the principles of pure geometry, he demonstrated that this mysterious force--utterly
inapproachable by human conception in its mystery--not only governs and controls the movements
of all the mighty masses of matter rolling in space, but transmits its influence--not successively,
but instantly and without diminution--to the smallest conceivable molecule on the outlying
boundaries of the universe. In the same calm and comprehensive spirit, if it be possible for
us to reach it, let us look upon this mysterious force called "life," not to show that it is
simply a "correlate" of this or that motion (a thing utterly impossible of demonstration, if
it actually exists), but to ascertain how and in what way it acts, and by what known law, if
any, it is governed.

In all the vast realm of Reality there is no more conclusive and palpable fact than that "life"
exists--appearing wherever the bright light flashes, the loving raindrop falls, the dancing
brook ripples, the sparkling streamlet murmurs, and the broad river flows to mingle with the
sea. All along this bright pathway of sunlight and cool translucent wave, this wonderful principle
of vitality manifests itself in all-glorious life--filling the air with balmy odors; making
perennial bud, leaf and flower, speeding from sire to son, from heart to heart, from spirit
to spirit, from age to age, from time into eternity.[4] For like all living principles, in
this realm of Reality, it cannot die. It is immortal in its primal source, immortal all along
its bright pathway, immortal as it flows onward to eternity, immortal in its return to the
bosom of God. It is no postulate, no corollary, no mere hypothetical judgment; no "undiscovered
correlative of motion," no "baseless fabric of a vision"--but the one grand comprehensive Datum
on which all the objective, as well as subjective, data of the universe rest. It is the same
"spirit that moved upon the face of the depths," in that majestic Dawn of Creation when the
"evening and the morning were the first day;" the same spirit that "upholds the order of the
heavens;" that pervades the vast realm of Reality, that flashes in the bright sunlight, descends
in the loving raindrop, ripples in the dancing brook, sparkles in the murmuring stream, and
forever flows onward bearing its primal fulness to the sea.

To deny the existence of this vital principle because we cannot bottle it up in our airless
flasks: to reduce it to some unknown correlate of motion because it constantly defies our poor
mental grasp; to insist upon its artificial production because elementary substances may be
chemically handled in our laboratories--is the same sort of preposterous folly that Newton
would have been guilty of, had he attempted to show that there was no such thing as "gravity"
in the universe; that it was only some undiscovered correlative of a thermal limit,--some unknown
molecular complexity or entanglement in cosmic ether--some spontaneously occurring affinity
or antagonism of ethereal molecules in the interplanetary spaces--some "potentiated potentiality"
of mere sky-mist,--conditions of which he could have had no experimental knowledge, nor have
given the slightest analogical proof. That we are justified in thus partially travestying the
technical methods of some of our modern scientists, so called--especially those of the materialistic
school--those advocating a purely physical theory of life, we need only quote a sentence or
two from Professor Lionel S. Beale, of King's College, London. This eminent physiologist, in
his recent work on "The Mystery of Life," says: "Notwithstanding all that has been asserted
to the contrary, not one vital action has yet been accounted for by physics and chemistry.
The assertion that life is correlated force rests upon assertion alone, and we are just as
far from an explanation of vital phenomena by force-hypotheses as we were before the discovery
of the doctrine of the correlation of forces." And he further adds that each additional year's
labor, in this special field of investigation, "only confirms him more strongly than ever in
the opinion that the physical doctrine of life cannot be sustained."

Many able and eminently learned physiologists have been disposed to recognize the presence
of pre-existing "germs" in the earth, but not to the extent of accounting for all life-manifestations
therein, as the doctrine is conclusively taught in the Bible Genesis. The language of this
genesis is too clear and explicit to be misunderstood, in its proper renderings. It especially
emphasizes the remarkable and most extraordinary statement, at least for the period in which
it was written, that all life comes primordially from the waters and the earth. Note the order
in which the command "to bring forth" was issued:--

1. Let the earth bring forth its vegetation.

2. Let the waters bring forth the fishes, the amphibia, the reptiles, the fowl of the air.

3. Let the earth bring forth the beast, the cattle, every living creature, and everything that
creepeth upon the earth--each after his kind.

4. Let us make man in our own image.

And this is the precise order in which the Scientific genesis proceeds, with all the lithographic
pages of nature turned back for its inspection. Before vegetation there could have been no
animal life upon the globe. This fact is most conclusively proved, not only by geographic and
paleontologic records, but by legitimate induction. From the highly crystalline, and, for the
most part, non-fossiliferous era, far back in the Laurentian period, down, in the order of
time, to the modern or post-tertiary period, there is one continuous history of life-manifestations,
written upon the stratified rocks, in the order of the Bible Genesis. Was this mere guess and
fancy on the part of the writer, even to the seemingly improbable element wherein is assigned
the origin of the "fowl of the air?" Bear in mind that nothing was known of geological distribution
at the time this most remarkable genesis was written. Had there been, it is certain that the
careful and painstaking Hesiod, who suffered no important fact of the Cosmos to escape him,
would have given us some hint of it in his "Works and Days;" for Greece was, even in his early
day, largely the recipient of Phoenician learning and literature, as she was certainly Phoenicia's
foster-child in letters.

But the more conclusive proofs of the correctness of the order of creation, as given in the
Bible Genesis, are to be found in the accurate observations of modern geological science. Before
there could have appeared in the primeval oceans any living organism, even the lowest primordial
forms of crustacea, there must have been marine vegetation--that springing from inorganic matter
and laying the foundation of organic life. Plants originate in, and are solely nourished by,
inorganic substances; or, to speak more definitely, they originate from primordial germs--the
first elementary principles of life--whenever inorganic conditions favor, and, assimilating
air, water, and other inorganic materials, convert them into organic substances, or such as
answer to the conditions of organic life. In doing this, they take up and decompose carbonic
acid, retain the carbon, and give off oxygen--a vital process not known to occur in the case
of animal life. That their primordial germs, or vital units, are in the earth, as the Bible
Genesis declares, is conclusively shown by the experimental processes first successfully entered
upon by the AbbA(C) Spallanzani, Charles Bonnet, and others, and more recently renewed and
advocated by M. Pasteur, and his co-laborers in super-heated flask experimentation, as well
as logically established by inductive methods.

Nihil ex nihilo is conceded to be as conclusive an induction as omne vivum ex vivo. That is,
as without some chemical unit--some primary least considered as a whole--there can be no chemical
action, so without some vital unit, in the same primary sense, there can be no vital manifestation.
The doctrine of "chemical units" is universally conceded, and that of "morphological units"
almost as universally claimed. What greater incongruity is there, then, in assuming the presence
between the two of a physiological or vital unit? [5] At all events, it is as impossible to
demonstrate the non-existence of the one unit as the other. And so long as legitimate induction
supports the doctrine of the Bible Genesis, it is useless to indulge in a contrary assumption
which is wholly without verification or proof.

But to return to land vegetation. This appeared and flourished throughout the Devonian period,
if not anterior to it, and long before the appearance of batrachian reptiles and other low
air-breathing forms of life. In fact, there could have been no life-breathing atmosphere until
the earlier land vegetation had whipped out its more destructive elements, and paved the way,
in necessary conditions, for the appearance of air-breathing animals. Hence the command for
the earth to bring forth both marine and land vegetation--the vegetation of the earth--before
there was any similar command respecting either marine or land forms of organic life. But by
what logical method was this exact order inferred in the Bible Genesis? Neither the Jews, nor
their earlier Hebrew ancestors, nor the Phoenicians before or after them, were in any sense
of the word metaphysicians; nor did their language admit of those nicer distinctions and speculative
conclusions which would have enabled any writer using it, thousands of years ago, to draw the
commanding induction contained in this remarkable genesis. There is nothing in the incomparable
methods of M. Comte, or the metaphysical spirit of Herbert Spencer, in his most daring speculations,
which gives the world a more legitimate and conclusive induction than is contained in this
simple statement of the order of creation. That it should have been a mere piece of guess-work
on the part of Moses, or any other writer of his time,--covering, as it does, so many particularities
of statement, all according with the exact observations of geologic science, and supported
by paleontologic records,--requires quite as much credulity of judgment as to accept it for
divinely inspired truth. A disciple of M. Comte might object to this conclusion as susceptible
of two interpretations, the one a legitimate induction, and the other not. But the mind of
the profounder reasoner would accept the interpretation which is supported by the higher reason,
and validated by the greater number of conclusively-established facts. In the case of a strongly
intuitive mind, it might be possible to guess the exact order of three or four apparently disconnected
events, but to arbitrarily associate with them other and more distinctively subordinate occurrences,
like the appearance or disappearance of whole groups and classes of plants and animals, the
supposition that guess-work, and not positive information, governed in the formation of a judgment,
is at once rejected because of its utter incredibility.

It is not our purpose, however, either to affirm or dis-affirm the inspirational claims of
the Bible Genesis. We simply take its language as we find it, stript of its Masoretic renderings
and irrational interpretations, and unhesitatingly aver that the three Hebrew words, translated
in our common version--"whose seed is in itself upon the earth" --contains, when properly rendered,
the key that unlocks the whole "mystery of life," or, as Dr. Gull emphasizes it, "the grand
questio vexata of the day." It expressly declares that "the primordial germs of all plant-life
(and, inferentially of all life) are in themselves (i.e. each after its kind) upon the earth,"
and we have only to supplement this physiological statement with the "necessary incidence of
conditions," as formulated by the physicists, to explain every phenomenal fact of life hitherto
occurring upon our globe.

Take all the hints as to the spontaneous origin of life to be met with in Aristotle; all those
subsequently repeated by Lucretius and Ovid; all the experiments of the renowned AbbA(C) Spallanzani--all
the alleged "fantastic assumptions" of M. Bonnet--all the theories of "panspermism," by whomsoever
advocated--all the fortuitous aggregations of "molecules organiques," as put forth by the French
school of materialists--all the primordia viventium of the gifted Harvey--all the "molecular
machinery" and "undiscovered correlates of motion" formulated by Herbert Spencer and Professor
Bastian--in fine, all the more brilliant theories of life ever spun from the recesses of the
human brain,--and we shall find that they all fit into the three simple Hebrew words to be
found in the Bible Genesis, and all are explained by them. We say all, with one exception only--that
of man. And how inconceivably grand and majestic this exception! The crowning work of creation
was MAN. He came from no "muddy vesture of decay;" no mere life-creating fiat spoke him into
existence. He who was to have "dominion over all the earth"--who was to be created only a little
lower than the angels--"in the image of God created He him." And, breathing into his nostrils
the breath of life, he became a living soul!

Here is the "bridge" over which the "evolutionist" may pass, if he will, without wearing either
the dunce's cap or the ass's ears. It spans the chasm between the anthropoid ape and man as
no other bridge can span it. Across this bridge is flung the living garment of God, and how
grandly, yet reverently and humbly, did the profound Newton cross it! Oh, ye defiant iconoclasts
of sublime faith in the "old doctrines;" ye who talk so flippantly of the "potentialities of
life in a nebula;" who sit on the awe-inspiring Matterhorn, at high noon, and muse in sadness
over "the primordial formless fog," teeming with all the mighty possibilities of myriads of
sun-systems like our own; and, musing, sneer, if you can, at the idea of a "specific creation"
in the beginning--of an Infinite Intelligence that directs and superintends all! Because you
cannot annihilate matter, nor conceive of its annihilation in the infinitessimal compass of
your brain, is that any reason why Infinite power and intelligence may not have spoken it into
existence at His sovereign and commanding will? If man would presumptuously press towards the
threshold of the Infinite, let him do it reverently, and with humility of spirit, and not as
one "that vaunteth himself of strength," or "multiplieth words without knowledge."

But let us examine the Bible Genesis a little further in this direction. It is said in the
second verse of the first chapter that "the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters,"
that is, upon the face of the abyss--the chaotic mass at creation--the earth "without form
and void."

What is here meant by "the spirit of God," is that life-giving breath or power of God which
operates (continuously operates) to impart life to inanimate nature.[6] From the connection
in which it here stands it means this, as in other connections it means the power which operates
(continuously operates) to produce whatever is noble and good (God-like) in man. There is no
implication in the text that this life-giving principle or power was suspended in the act of
creation. On the contrary, there is abundant evidence in nature to show that it is just as
operative now as it was in the beginning. One of the definitions given by Professor Gibbs of
this spirit is, "that which operates throughout inanimate nature," not that which once operated,
and then forever ceased its operations. And Professor Gibbs no doubt meant by "nature," in
this connection, not only all the physical phenomena she presents, but the aggregate or sum
total of all her phenomena, whether active or passive, animate or inanimate, embracing the
world of matter or the world of mind.[7] "All are but parts of one stupendous whole,"--not
a part nature, and a part not nature.

Again, in the eleventh verse, it is distinctly declared that the ZRA. the "germinal principle
of life," is in the earth, producing each living thing, at least in the vegetable world, after
its kind, that is, after its own class, order, genera, species. Hence, the three distinct and
separate commands given to the earth, or to the earth and its waters, "to bring forth." No
such command would have been given to the earth, had it not first received its baptism of life
from God--in other words, derived the animating principle of life from the source of all Life.

And hence, also, the two separate averments in the second chapter of Genesis, both entirely
meaningless apart from the construction we here give it, that "out of the ground made the Lord
God to grow" the vegetation of the earth, and "out of the ground" produced he (or caused to
be produced) every beast of the field, etc.,--all of which has a definite and comprehensive
significance in this one sense only, that the animating principle of life is in the earth,
as the language of this most remarkable genesis implies. And this seems to have been the patristic
idea, namely, that law and regularity, not arbitrary intervention, nor any specific act of
creation, were what governed in the case of both vegetal and animal life.

St. Augustine says: "In prima institutione naturA| non quseritur miraculum, sed quid natura
rerum habeat." And it is certain that both St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Basil held the same view.
And they further held that the animating principle of life once implanted in nature, held good
for all time. But we are not seeking for early and mediA|val authority. What we propose to
show is, that nature is still implicitly obeying just such a law as that implied in the command
given her "to bring forth," however doubtful may be the authority on which it rests, in the
opinion of our modern scientists.

And how completely does this genesis of life take man out of the definitional formula embracing
the "beasts of the earth." From the lowest vertebrate, in Mr. Darwin's plexus, to the highest
quadrumane (his nearest allied type to man), covering almost an infinite variety of distinct
living forms, the distance to be traversed, in order to reach man, is hardly more than one-third
the length of the still unlinked and uncompleted chain. In the average capacity of the monkey's
brain-chamber, to say nothing of his other characteristic differences, the distance is not
half traversed. As a "beast of the earth," he remains allied to his own type, and nothing higher.
Both Darwin's vertebral plexus, and Herbert Spencer's "line of individuation," must begin with
the lancelet and its disputed head, and end in the Catarrhine or Old World monkey. No a priori
induction will ever extend this line or plexus to man. The developmental chain, if indeed there
be one, has no congenital link that will either drag man down to the "beast of the earth,"
or lift the latter up to the transcendent plane of humanity. Each must remain specifically
in his own type, whatever may be their vertical tendencies, upwards or downwards.[8] And this
word "type" implies a fundamental ground-plan--an archetype--an original conception of what
each should unconditionally be, and what plane each should as unconditionally occupy. Man's
place in nature can never be changed or modified by materialistic speculations. Whatever theories
the materialists may spin into the unsubstantial warp and woof of their scientific formulA|
respecting life, will never stand before the tenacious and stubborn physiological facts which
almost any thoroughly-informed and well-read scholar of nature may readily present against them.

Even the wild Indian of our prairies has a more rational conception of life and its accountabilities,
than some of these learned professors whose theoretical conclusions we find it imperative to
handle. With all his rude, rough nature, hanging like so many mental clogs about him, this
unlettered savage recognizes the fact that the earth is the genetrix omnium viventium, or the
living mother on whose bosom he shall rest when his spirit has passed to the happy hunting-fields
beyond. Unlettered as he is, and unread in any genesis of life, he fails not to perceive that
the earth is forever teeming with the germinal principles of life, and that when his prairie
fires have invaded the forests in which he had previously hunted the deer, other and different
forest growths are constantly making their appearance, without any apparent intervention of
seeds, but not without the supervisional care and direction of the Great Spirit,--while many
of his hardier prairie grasses have disappeared, only to give place to the more nutritious
gramma coveted by his favorite game.

And here we may as well anticipate an objection which will be raised against the presence of
this animating principle of life in the earth, as to meet and answer it further on in the argument.
But as the objection to which we refer is one of those dragon's teeth we do not care to leave
behind us, we will meet it at the very threshold of the controversy. It will probably be admitted
that the vegetation of the earth may appear in the way and manner indicated in the biblical
genesis, the same as infusorial forms appear in super-heated and hermetically-sealed flasks.
But how about the preA"xisting germs or vital units of the mastodon, the megatherium, and other
gigantic mammiferous quadrupeds of the Eocene period? From what experimental flasks, in the
great laboratory of nature, did they first make their appearance? The objection is a legitimate
one, and we will answer it.

But first, let us do so from the materialist's own stand-point. Time, they all agree, is practically
infinite--past time, as well as future; while matter is susceptible of an infinite number of
diverse movements, changes, modifications, combinations, etc.,[9] chemically as well as molecularly
considered. This, they claim, is not a mere hypothetical judgment, but a mathematically demonstrable
proposition. Grant it for the sake of the argument, and then see if the mastodon does not promptly
emerge from some one of their "experimental flasks," as they choose to put it.

For if the number of these diverse movements, changes, modifications, etc., of matter, have
been infinite, in its progress from the lowest statical to the highest dynamical manifestation,
then every possible, as well as conceivable, form of matter, must have existed somewhere, and
at some time, in nature, even to its highest and most potentially endowed plasmic form in which
there is life. And if this be true, and the materialists will not deny but rather affirm it,
then the inter-uterine conditions of matter, in the case of all animals (the mastodon included),
as well as the inter-cellular conditions in the case of all plant-life, must have existed,
with their necessary environments, somewhere and at some time, in the all-hutched laboratory
of nature. Hence, in the infinite number of these changes and combinations--in the countless
collocations of molecules and chemically changed conditions of matter, we have the possibilities
of all terrestrial life-manifestations, as we have, in the infinite number of cosmical changes,
the possibilities of all planetary, cometary, and asteroidal manifestations. For whenever these
vital changes occur, the life-manifestations dependent thereon, must as inevitably follow as
that infinitely diffused matter should be aggregated by gravity, or by what Humboldt calls,
in his "Cosmos," the "world-arranging Intelligence" of the universe.

Who shall say, then, that in that immensely remote and long-protracted era--the Eocene period--in
which the gigantic elephantoids first made their appearance, there did not exist somewhere,
in some one of nature's more cunning and prolific recesses, the exact plasmic conditions necessary
for the appearance of the mastodon? If they existed anywhere (which is concessively possible),
with the necessary environment (also concessively possible), then the mastodon could no more
help wallowing out of his essential plasma than the earth can help responding to its axial
motion. All things are framed in the prodigality of nature, and she never commits an abortion
upon herself. If both the conditions and necessary environment were at any time present, as
they must have been on the materialistic theory, the mastodon is just as easily accounted for
as the first fungus, or the first fungus-spore. [10]

All physicists, as well as physiologists, agree that individual species of both plants and
animals have disappeared from the earth for the want of the "necessary conditions" under which
they once lived and flourished. What greater fallacy is there, then, in the assumption that
they originally appeared from the presence of these identical conditions, whatever they may
have been, and whenever they may have occurred? We put this question not simply because the
Bible Genesis asserts that "out of the ground made the Lord God to grow" every plant of the
field "before it was in the earth," as well as every herb of the field "before it grew;" nor
because it declares that their primordial germs are in the earth; nor because it speaks of
the earth as containing within itself the "animating principle of life." But we put it on the
irrefragable logic of the materialist's own premises and conclusions. They may use other and
different physiological terms from what we should care to employ, but their "correlates of
motion," their "molecular force," their "highly differentiated life-stuff," etc., may possibly
mean nothing more than what we mean by "vital units," "vital forces," "vital conditions," etc.
Their preference for the terms they employ, over essential "qualities" or "properties" of matter,
is entirely due to the obvious invalidity of their conclusions, except as their physical theory
of life may help them out of an unpleasant dilemma. "Force" is a more convenient term on which
to allege the de novo origin of life--its spontaneous manifestation in their experimental flasks--than
any vital principle primarily inhering in matter, and manifesting itself whenever conditions
favor. It is to validate their own reasoning that they construct their fallacious force-premises,
from which to draw their materialistic inductions. In other words, theirs is the fallacy of
non causa pro causa, or that vicious process of reasoning which alleges some other than the
real cause of vital manifestation, and fastens induction where none is legitimately inferable.

Burdach, Buffon, Pouchet, Needham, and other professed vitalists, agree that in all life-manifestations
there must be some preA"xisting vital force or principle, without which no living thing, whether
plant or animal, can come into existence.[11] M. Pouchet says: "I have always thought that
organized beings were animated by forces which are in no way reducible to physical or chemical
forces." The AbbA(C) Needham is satisfied to formulate a "force vA(C)getative," so far as plant-life
is concerned; Buffon invariably falls back on vital force or energy; and Burdach on a "force
plastique," which is essentially inseparable from nature in her vital manifestations. According
to the latter, the whole universe is an "organisme absolu" constantly endowed with life, and
giving expression to it in all conceivable directions. And all that these vitalists need, to
give a full interpretation to their facts of observation, is to supplement their theories with
the Bible declaration that the animating principle of life is in the earth, from which all
living things make their appearance, each distinctively after its own kind, whenever environing
conditions favor. For they severally recognize these "necessary conditions" as inseparable
from all vital manifestation.

An effort has been made to show that Goethe was the great inspired prophet of the doctrine
of "Evolution," as a ceaselessly progressive transformation of one thing into another, in the
metamorphoses of plants and animals; and Haeckel quotes this passage from him as entirely conclusive
of this point: "Thus much we should have gained (towards solving the problem of life) that
all the more perfect organic beings, among which we include fishes, amphibians, birds, mammals
(and at the head of the latter, man), to be formed according to an archetype, [12] which merely
fluctuates more or less in its ever persistent parts, and moreover, day by day, completes and
transforms itself by means of reproduction." But this attempt to give a poetic glorification
to Haeckelism in Goethe's speculations, and bring his commanding name into support of the evolution
theory of development, will prove utterly futile in the light of his "archetype," and the persistency
with which he concedes that nature adheres to perfected forms.

Goethe accepts the doctrine of vis centripeta, beyond the influence of which no developmental
progress can be made in the way of diversifying or variegating ideal types. In other words,
he virtually fixes limits to variability, from the outermost circumference of which reversion
must inevitably take place. His whole doctrine may be summed up generally, if not specially,
in these words: "The animal is fashioned by circumstances to circumstances," as the eagle to
the air and mountain top, the mole to the loose soil in which it burrows, the seal to the water
in which he frolics, and the bat to the cave, the twilight, and the night air. We should rather
say that the animal is fashioned, after the Great Architect's pattern, to circumstances, and
is only varied by circumstances, and that within the narrowest limits of variability. For the
most that Goethe means by his "archetype" is an ideal pattern, after which, or on which, a
natural group of plants or animals has been fashioned within the limits of possible variability.
But by whose mind, or rather within whose mind, was this ideal pattern--this essential archetype--fashioned?
Whence this ideal type, this natural group, this Archeus pervading all nature and fashioning
all organic matter? Not from the mind of Goethe certainly, nor from that of Aristotle or Lucretius,
but from the one supreme mind of the universe, in which the groups of all living things were
originally fashioned in the archetypal world--that world "which," according to Bolingbroke,
"contains intelligibly all that is contained sensibly in our world."

This archetypal doctrine of Goethe, coupled, as he couples it, with the influences of environment,
or necessary external conditions, with typical modifications only, while it entirely harmonizes
with the Bible genesis of types (everything modeled after its kind), is far from aiding, or
in any way abetting, the materialistic hypothesis of Haeckel, unless we make nature at once
the creator and modifier of her own archetype. And even then the variability of species remains
unaccounted for, except as we attribute to nature a purpose to modify persistent forms under
a law that is immutable even in its variability. For the assumption of an archetype carries
with it an archetypal plan and purpose, with a degree of intelligence, either in or above nature,
capable at once of conceiving the type and determining the limits of its variability. The question
is not, therefore, as many may seem to think, whether species originate by miracle or by law,
but whether laws and causes can exist independently of any predetermining will or agency in
the universe.

Our language, and that of all civilized peoples on the globe, must be thoroughly recast, not
only in its philological and etymological character, but in its ideologic, etiologic, and other
significations, before we can successfully fall back on an antecedent cause without an effect,
or an effect without an antecedent cause. Besides, the human mind would have to undergo as
complete a subversion of structure as language itself, before any such attempt at recasting
it, on the basis of modern materialistic ideas, could possibly prove successful. And then,
at least one-third of our language would have to disappear in this iconoclastic reform. For
instance, take any well-tabulated synopsis of our categories and their relations, and they
would nearly all have to be recast or entirely abandoned. Time, space, matter, motion, intellect,
abstract ideas, volitions, affections, etc., with their several correlates or co-relations,
would all have to undergo a thorough recasting process. The personal, intersocial, sympathetic,
moral, and religious relations and obligations, would have to be summarily set aside for future
revision, if not for sweeping rejection. All our ideas of life, materiality, spirituality,
animality, vegetability, sensibility, etc., would have to fall into greater or less desuetude,
the language disappearing with the ideas. All the words expressing our ideas of a superhuman
agency, of God, angels, heaven, revelation, religious doctrines, sentiments, acts of worship,
piety, human accountability to divine institutions, rites, ceremonies, etc.,--to say nothing
of maleficent spirits, mythological and other fabulous divinities, entering so largely into
the spirit and machinery of all our best poetry--would utterly disappear from our language.
All our churches, minsters, chapels, tabernacles, cathedrals, and temples erected to the "living
God," embracing the finest and most majestic architecture of the world, would have to succumb
to the iconoclastic zeal of these materialistic reformers. The ten categories of Aristotle
would disappear in the one category of Haeckel, or possibly the two categories of Bastian--Matter
and Motion! Philologically speaking, we should all be at sea, drifting, like a set of deaf-mutes,
on a wide and inaudible ocean--all inarticulate, tongue-tied, voiceless--with only the screeching
of the sea-mew, or some other sepulchral bird of the night, to greet us as in wide-mouthed
derision of our speechlessness and folly.

But let us see how the incontestible facts of nature, and the truths of science, fit into the
three simple Hebrew words referring to "germs," or the germinal principle of life, instead
of the natural "seeds" of plants or trees. We have given what we claim to be the true rendering
of these words. To show how perfectly they harmonize with all the phenomenal manifestations
of life in nature, we hurriedly pass to our third chapter.

Chapter III.

Alternations of Forest Growths.

No fact has more profoundly puzzled the vegetable physiologist than the alternations of forest
growths which are everywhere occurring without the apparent interposition of natural seeds,
and which have been considered as wholly inexplicable except as one unsatisfactory theory after
another has been suggested to account for the wide dissemination and distribution of their
seeds. We have had any number of these theories, more or less ingeniously constructed, but
it is safe to say that none of them satisfactorily accounts for more than a very limited number
of the phenomena presented. It is only within a comparatively recent period that these alternations
of timber growth have attracted the attention of scientific men; consequently little more than
crude suggestions and ill-digested facts are at the command of the general reader and writer.
And yet the facts themselves, such as they are, would fill a dozen volumes of the size of Dr.
Hough's recent "Report upon American Forestry." We can only give a few of the more important
facts we have gathered, and many of these are so deficient in necessary detail that their value
is greatly lessened for scientific uses. This is especially true of nearly all those noticed
and collated by Dr. Hough, in his report to the United States Commissioner of Agriculture,
made in 1877, in which the alternations in question are referred to at length, but no new suggestions
presented, nor any very important new facts given.

If our construction of the Bible genesis be the correct one, it will, we think, be unhesitatingly
admitted that all the facts collected and collated by Dr. Hough, together with others more
carefully noticed by our ablest writers on vegetable physiology, not only harmonize with this
ancient Hebrew text, but so completely fit into it, both in its implications and explications,
that adverse criticism will be awed into silence rather than provoked into any new controversy
on the subject. This remarkable genesis declares that the germs of all living things are in
themselves upon the earth--"upon the face of all the earth." It is true that this declaration,
as contained in the 11th verse of the first chapter of Genesis, is textually limited to the
vegetation of the earth; but the further emphatic statement that "the animating principle of
life" is in the earth, coupled with the more substantive fact that God commanded the waters
and the earth to bring forth abundantly of every living creature, with the single exception
of man, conclusively extends the language of the 11th verse to whatever vegetable and animal
life the earth was specifically directed to "bring forth." It is our purpose to consider, in
this connection, not only the various facts noticed and theories suggested by our ablest writers
and thinkers on the subject of seed-distribution, but to ascertain, as far as possible, to
what extent their several facts and theories harmonize with natural phenomena, and at the same
time determine what disposition should be made of them in the light of this new genesis, herein
for the first time disclosed. It is manifest that Professor Marsh uses the word "germs," in
this connection, in the sense of seeds only; for no seed-bearing trees "shed" any other germs
than the natural seeds they bear. But why he should scruple about receiving these speculative
accounts of ancient Egyptian cereals, which are sometimes hawked about the country for two
and three dollars a seed, and, in the same breath, accept the absurder theory that seeds may
lie dormant for ages in soils where the hardest and most enduring woods will utterly perish
and disappear in a few brief years, is wholly inexplicable to us, except as an hypothesis to
force a conclusion, or to account for the otherwise unaccountable alternations of forest growths.

But the idea that nature has any cunning devices by which she may hide seeds away where they
will remain "almost imperishable" for ages, is not entirely new with Professor Marsh, nor is
it any suggestion that would be protected by copyright. In finding the winds, birds, quadrupeds,
and other assumed agencies of distribution improbable, he seeks, with Dr. Dwight, for "the
seeds of an ancient vegetation," and, finding none by actual observation, concludes that nature
has some occult, and thoroughly surreptitious, method of hiding them away, even in soils below
the last glacial drift, where no microscope can possibly reach them. As the accounts of seeds
taken from the mummy-cases of Egypt may answer the purposes of those seeking to palm off some
new cereal as a nine-days wonder on the ignorant, so these speculations about the indestructibility
of seeds, when hidden away by nature, may answer a like purpose in imposing upon the over-credulous;
but they will hardly be accepted by the intelligent, much less the scientific, in the light
of all the facts herein given. The simple truth is that all seeds are speedily perishable by
out-door exposure. We hardly know a single seed that will survive beyond the second year when
subjected to such exposure. If they do not germinate the first year, their vitality is utterly
gone the second year, as hopelessly so as if they had been cast into the fire and consumed
to ashes.

But there is a large class of vegetable phenomena which wholly excludes the idea of this wonderful
vitality of seeds. It is well known that soil brought up from deep wells and other excavations,
often produces plants entirely unlike the prevailing local flora. This soil has been brought
up, in many instances, from beneath the last glacial drift, where it must have remained for
not less than a quarter of a million years at the lowest calculation, and may have remained
for millions of years, if not longer; and yet the same singular phenomenon is presented. Exposed
to the sun's rays, and the fructifying influences of showers and dews, the soil burgeons forth
into an independent flora, and such as are nowhere to be found in the surrounding locality.
The writer, in digging a well in Waukesha, Wis.,--a place now famous for the curative properties
of its waters--in 1847, struck soil at a depth of about thirty-five feet--that which was evidently
ante-glacial. The place is some twenty miles back from Milwaukee, and the whole section, far
into the interior of the state from Lake Michigan, is one of drift, covering the primeval soil
at various depths, from a few feet up to a hundred or more; and the imbedded soil must have
remained in its place for untold ages. And yet, it was no sooner brought to the surface than
it produced several small plants that were wholly unlike the prevailing local flora; although,
unfortunately, they did not sufficiently mature to enable us to determine their genera and
species. Considerable portions of this soil were dried and subjected by us, and the late Dr.
John A. Savage, then president of Carroll College, to microscopic examination, but without
discovering the slightest trace of any seed, or anything resembling seed, in the several portions
carefully examined. The soil, however, contained, in its imbedded place, several large Norway
spruce logs, in a more or less perfect state of preservation. But there were no cones, nor
chits to cones, to be found in it, although the most rigid examination was made at the time
to discover them. That the seeds of these delicate little plants should have survived the wreck
of this ancient Norwegian forest, or the drift from one, and burst forth into newness of life
after hundreds of thousands, not to say millions of years, is decidedly too large a draft upon
our credulity to be honored "without sight." But we will return to the alternations of forest
growths.

It is within a comparatively recent period that extensive areas of hemlock, in Greene and Ulster
Counties, N.Y., were cut off to supply the neighboring tanneries with bark. These clearings
were no sooner made than oak, chestnut, birch, and other trees of deciduous foliage, sprang
up and entirely usurped the place of the hemlock; for the reason, no doubt, that the soil had
become chemically unbalanced for the growth of the latter, while its condition was entirely
favorable for the development of the "germs" (not the natural seed) of the former. These changes
in timber growths have been widely noticed in all parts of this country, as well as in Europe,
but the universal supposition has been that they came from the natural seeds of their respective
localities, those either scattered by the winds, or borne thither by the birds, by quadrupeds,
or by some other natural agency. No one has suggested the theory of "primordial germs" or "vital
units," or come any nearer to it than Dr. Dwight did in suggesting "the seeds of an ancient
vegetation." The great truth of the Bible genesis has been wholly overlooked by reason of a
faulty translation in the first instance, as taken from the Masoretic renderings of the sixth
century, and implicitly followed since.

In 1845, a violent tornado swept a wide strip of forest in Northern New York, from the more
thickly settled portions of Jefferson County to Lake Champlain. The timber that succumbed to
the force of the tornado, and growing at various points along its track, was mainly beech,
maple, birch, ash, hemlock, spruce, etc.; but it was rarely replaced, at any point, by the
same timber, in the growths that almost immediately followed. The trees that are now growing
along the track of the tornado are principally poplar, cherry, birch, and a little beech and
ironwood: no ash, maple, spruce, or hemlock, except here and there, at considerable intervals,
a tree or two which may have been replaced by natural seed. The important fact noticeable,
in this connection, is that the aggressive timber--that replacing the old--entirely usurped
the place of the evergreen growths, supplanting them with those that were wholly deciduous.
Besides, it does not appear that the poplar, the cherry, and the ironwood, which were altogether
aggressive, previously grew near enough to the track of the tornado to have possibly supplied
the seed necessary for their appearance and growth.

The fact was specially noticeable at the time, and has been widely communicated since, that
the white oak timber cut off at Valley Forge for fuel and other army purposes in the American
camp, in the winter of 1777-78, was succeeded by black oak, hickory, chestnut, etc.--the white
oak entirely disappearing, although by far the most favorably situated for propagation by seed.
But the alternations of forest growths had attracted too little attention at that time to render
the meagre facts given of any special value to scientific men. If the usurping timber had grown
in the immediate neighborhood (a fact not stated), it might have come from natural seeds, and
not from primordial germs under "favoring conditions."

In the Ohio Agricultural Report of 1872, an account is given of a storm-track, in that state,
which swept for a considerable distance, and was violent enough to bear down all the timber
before it. It is stated that the path of this tornado (which must have occurred many years
ago) "had grown up with black-walnut, another and different growth from that prostrated by
the force of the storm." In this instance, there were no neighboring trees, except perhaps
at distant intervals, from which the nuts of the black-walnut could have been derived, unless
they had been promiscuously strewn by the tornado along its entire track. But it is, unfortunately,
not stated that the tornado occurred at that opportune season of the year when the nuts were
properly matured for planting.

In many parts of the United States, particularly in the South and West, the paths of local
tornadoes--those sweeping the native forests long before the axe of civilization invaded them--may
still be traced by the alternations of timber growths, extending for long distances, and through
forests where there were no neighboring trees from which it was possible that their seeds could
have been derived. One of these tornadoes the writer traced many years ago (as early as 1837)
in South Alabama, and he is satisfied, both from observation and reading, that the instances
are rare, if not altogether exceptional, where the clean path of a tornado, through any of
our primitive forests, has been succeeded by the same growth of timber as that borne down by
the winds. Where the path of this ancient tornado of Alabama swept through a pine forest, a
clean growth of oak was buttressed on either side by pine; and vice versa, where it swept an
oak forest. And it is certain that the tornado, whenever it may have occurred, could have exhibited
no such discriminating freak as alternately to distribute acorns in pine growths, and pine
cones in oak growths, either to make good a scientific theory or balk an unscientific one.

Professor Agassiz, in passing through a dense young spruce forest some years ago, on the south
shore of Lake Superior, noticed that the ground was thickly strewn with fallen birch trunks,
showing that their place had been but recently usurped by the spruce; and he supposed that
the birch had first succumbed to the force of the winds, and the spruce promptly taken its
place, since, as a general rule, an evergreen growth succeeds a deciduous, and vice versa.
We have any number of well authenticated facts similar to this stated by Professor Agassiz,
but we cannot give place to them, in this connection, without greatly exceeding our limits.

Dr. Franklin B. Hough, in his recent "Report upon American Forestry," to which we have already
referred, says: "It is not unusual to observe in the swamps of the northern states, an alternation
of growth taking place without human agency. Extensive tracts of tamarack (Larix Americana)
may be seen in northern Wisconsin that are dying out, and being succeeded by the balsam fir
(Abies balsamea), which may be probably caused by the partial drainage of the swamps, from
the decay or removal of a fallen tree that had obstructed the outlet." The writer of this work
resided for a period of ten years or more in Wisconsin, and during that time traversed extensive
portions of its territory, both before and after it became a state. As early as 1844, the extensive
tamarack swamps of that region were manifestly dying out for the want of the proper nutritious
elements in the soil, and the balsam fir rapidly taking its place, especially where the accumulations
of soil, resulting from decayed vegetation, were favorable for its appearance. The drainage
of the swamps had not been thought of at that time, nor had the swamps themselves been disposed
of, to any considerable extent, by the federal government. They were subsequently granted to
the state for educational purposes, and afterwards purchased up in the interest of speculative
parties.

But the decay of the tamarack had really commenced long before population found its way, in
any considerable numbers, into that section of the country; and the balsam fir had begun its
usurpation, in many of the swamps, long prior to the advent there of the white man. Neither
artificial drainage, nor accidental drainage, had anything to do with the appearance of the
balsam fir, or the disappearance of the tamarack. The latter was manifestly dying out for the
want of the proper nutriment, and the former coming in for the reason that the soil was chemically
balanced for the development of its "primordial germs"--those everywhere implanted in the earth,
to await the necessary conditions for their development and growth. The natural seeds of this
balsam fir were not present in either the first, second, or third tamarack swamp in which this
alternation of growth originally took place. The change commenced as soon as conditions favored,
and not before. It is safe to say that, in none of these tamarack swamps, was there a single
balsam fir cone, or a single chit to a cone, nor had there probably been for thousands of years,
before the time when the first balsam fir made its appearance in that section. They came, as
all primordial forests come, from germs, not from the seeds of trees. Universally, the germ
precedes the tree, as the tree precedes the seed, in all vegetal growths, from the lowest cryptogam
to the lordliest conifer of the Pacific slope. Otherwise, we should be logically driven back
to an act of "specific creation," which the materialist stoutly rejects, and the Bible genesis
nowhere affirms.

Mr. George B. Emerson, in his valuable work on the "Trees and Shrubs of Massachusetts," suggests
as a cause (undoubtedly the true one) for the dying out of old forests, "the exhaustion of
the nutritious elements of the soil required for their vigorous and successful growth." But
he is evidently at fault in his speculations as to the alternations of forest growths. The
Cretan labyrinth that everywhere confronts him is the "seed-theory," which is so inextricable
to him that he constantly stumbles, as one scientifically blind, yet eager to lead the blind.
All the phenomenal facts with which he deals admirably fit into the Bible genesis, but he fails
to see it because the sublime truth (with him) lies locked up in an unmeaning translation.
He is indefatigable, however, in his hunt after seeds where there are no seeds, and in his
jumps at conclusions where there are manifestly no data to justify them.

He says: "Nature points out in various ways, and the observation of practical men has almost
uniformly confirmed the conclusion to which the philosophical botanist has come from theoretical
considerations, that a rotation of crops is as important in the forests as in the cultivated
fields." And he supplements this statement (measurably a true one) by adding that "a pine forest
is often, without the agency of man, succeeded by an oak forest, where there were a few oaks
previously scattered through the woods to furnish seed." This is a very cautious, as well as
circumspect, statement; but one that Mr. Emerson would not have made, had his experience and
observation been that of Professor Agassiz, Professor Marsh, and others we might name. His
few oaks previously scattered through the woods are no doubt among the "theoretical considerations"
taken into account by him, as a philosophical botanist rather than a practical one. They were
necessary for the extreme caution with which he would state a proposition when its "conditioning
facts" were not fully known by him. His anxiety to account for the appearance of an oak forest
in the place of a pine, where the latter had been cut off, was commendable enough to justify
him in a pretty broad supposition, but not in any such general statement as he here makes.
Had he consulted any of the older inhabitants of Westford, Littleton, and adjoining towns,
in his own state, he would have found that not a few oak forests had succeeded the pine without
the intervention of "scattered oaks," or even scattered acorns, in the localities named. Nor
would his "squirrel-theory" of distribution have been very confidently adhered to, fifty years
ago, in localties where the shagbark walnut was almost as abundant as the white oak itself.
No squirrel will gather acorns where he can possibly get hickory nuts, and few will gather
hickory nuts where the larger and thinner-shelled walnuts are to be had for the picking. The
squirrel is provident, but no more so than he is fastidious in the choice of his food. He never
plants acorns except for his own gratification, and is never gratified with indifferent food
so long as he can command that which is to his liking.

In further speaking of the "exhausted elements" of the soil--those necessary for the food of
trees as well as plants, and without which they inevitably perish and disappear--Mr. Emerson
says; "This is clearly indicated in what is constantly going on in the forests, particularly
the fact which I have already stated, and which is abundantly confirmed by my correspondents,
that a forest of one kind is frequently succeeded by a spontaneous growth of trees of another
kind." In the sense in which he manifestly uses the term "spontaneous" in this connection,
his new forest might be accounted for on the theory of "primordial germs," but not on that
of "seeds;" for few trees or shrubs in Massachusetts bear winged seeds, or possess any other
means of dispersion (the Acer family excepted) than those common to our general forest growths.
Spontaneity, in a strictly scientific sense, is not predicable upon the artificial or chance
sowing of either acorns, hickory nuts, or the chits to pine cones. A spontaneous growth implies
a process which is neither usual nor accidental--a growth without external cause, but from
inherent natural tendency--and it is questionable whether there is any such process in nature.
It belongs to the same class of idle speculations as "spontaneous generation" in the infusorial
world--a subject that will be considered as we advance in this work.

Our vegetable physiologists, Mr. Emerson among the number, are simply unfortunate in their
use of terms--those expressing even the commonest operations of nature. In their genesis of
plants and trees they need to adhere a little more closely to the genesis of induction, and
use language in harmony with the phenomenal facts and characteristics which they are called
upon to explain. But Mr. Emerson was not alone at fault in this almost universal slip of the
scientific pen. He quotes from a letter of Mr. P. Sanderson, of East Whately, Mass., in which
the writer says: "There is an instance on my farm of spruce and hackmatack being succeeded
by a spontaneous growth of maple wood;" and he adds that "instances are also mentioned by him
(Mr. Sanderson) of beech and maple succeeding oaks; oaks following pines, and the reverse;
hemlock succeeded by white birch in cold places, and by hard maple in warm ones; beech succeeded
by maple, elm, etc; and, in fact, the occurrence was so common that surprise was expressed
at the asking of the question."

These several alternations in timber growths, effectually vouched for by Mr. Emerson, occurring
"spontaneously" as stated, can hardly be accounted for on any other theory than the presence
of "germs" and "favoring conditions," such as we have named in connection with the Bible genesis.
They might possibly be explained on the theory of "scattered seeds," if the several growths
had made their appearance gradually, and not "spontaneously," as stated. The misfortune with
Mr. Emerson, as well as with his several "reliable correspondents," was, that his facts are
too meagrely imparted, in the necessary details, to draw any satisfactory conclusions from
them--such as the nearness or distance of surrounding trees of the same species, and the possible
chances of their seeds taking lodgment in the soil from which they grew. But, fortunately,
there are facts, and those abundantly substantiated, which entirely negative the presence of
seeds in the soils where these "spontaneous growths" are said to have appeared. In some instances,
they cover large tracts of land, at distances of thirty, forty, fifty, and even hundreds of
miles, from any native forest from which seed could have been derived.

Dr. Dwight, in the second volume of his "Travels," mentions visiting a town in Vermont (Panton,
near Vergennes), in which a piece of land that had been once cultivated, but was afterwards
permitted to lie waste, "yielded a thick and vigorous growth of hickory, where there was not
a single hickory tree in any original forest within fifty miles of the place." He is greatly
puzzled to account for this isolated growth of hickory, but readily concludes that "the fruit
was too heavy to be carried fifty miles by birds; besides" he adds, "it is not eaten by any
bird indigenous to Vermont." And even if the birds had carried the nuts thither, not one of
them could have been planted there unless the nut-eating bird had been caught and destroyed
on the spot, and the nut released from its crop. This might account for the appearance of a
single tree, but not for a "whole grove of hickory;" and the squirrels certainly could not
have been provident enough to plant any considerable grove in this particular locality, and
nowhere else within fifty miles of it. The winds could not have borne them that distance without
dropping a single nut by the way, and there is only one supposition left, which is that indicated
in the Bible genesis.

While Dr. Dwight emphatically rejects the "transportation theory," he imagined he had solved
the difficulty in his suggestion "that the cultivation of the land had brought up the seeds
of a former forest, within the limits of vegetation, and given them an opportunity to vegetate."
But the utter absurdity of this theory may be demonstrated by any one inside of two years,
by placing hickory nuts, in different soils, at a depth to which an ordinary plough-point would
reach in cultivation; and then, at the end of the second year, examining those that did not
germinate the first year. The commonest observer of a hickory forest knows that if the fallen
nuts do not germinate the first year, their vitality is utterly and hopelessly gone. It makes
no difference whether you leave the nuts on the ground where they fall, or place them one inch
or twenty inches beneath the soil, the result will be the same. At the end of two years, you
can pulverize them between thumb and finger almost as easily as so much dried loam. The idea
of deriving a new forest from such nuts, is hardly less absurd than that of emptying the Egyptian
catacombs of their old mummy-cases, in the expectation of seeing a race of Theban kings stalking
the earth as before the foundations of either Carthage or Rome were laid.

Dr. Dwight was a very close and accurate observer of nature, and suffered few of even the minor
points of detail to escape him. In the same work, as well as in the same connection, he gives
an account of another forest, which he supposes sprang spontaneously from "the seeds of an
ancient vegetation." He says: "A field about five miles from Northampton (Mass.), on an eminence
called 'Rail Hill,' was cultivated about a century ago (circiter 1720). He supposes, however,
that the "seeds" (pine cone chits) had lain dormant for ages before cultivation brought them
up "within the limits of vegetation."

As early as 1807, Judge Peters, of Philadelphia, became satisfied that all that elevated region
around the head waters of the Delaware, Alleghany, and Genesee Rivers, then covered with heavy
growths of hemlock, or with forests of beech and sugar-maple, was originally an oak forest,
probably covering most of that entire region. And Mr. John Adlum, of Havre de Grace, Md., who
originally surveyed the lands south of the great bend of the Susquehanna, between that river
and the Delaware, conceived the same idea as early as 1788. The section surveyed by him was
chiefly covered with beech and sugar-maple; in fact, it was in what was called, at the time,
"the beech and sugar-maple country." He drew his inferences from the fact that he found, here
and there, at irregular intervals, red and white oaks growing to an enormous size, none being
less than sixteen feet, and many measuring twenty-two feet or more, in circumference five feet
above the ground. He says that "the hemlock in this region seems to have succeeded the oak,
while the beech and maple no doubt succeeded the hemlock." This last inference would seem to
have been made from the fact that clumps of large hemlock trees were, at that time, still growing
at intervals among the larger deciduous trees.

Indeed, there is no better established fact in vegetable physiology than that of these alternations
of forest growths. They sometimes come on gradually, but, in a majority of instances, they
make their appearance at once on the cutting off of old forests, in the tracks of tornadoes,
or where fire has devastated extensive regions of timber. From the facts which have been gathered,
it is difficult to determine any regular order of alternation, except that oaks and other deciduous
trees succeed the different varieties of pine and other evergreen growths, and, perhaps, vice
versa. In Dr. Hough's report upon American Forestry, he makes a brief summary of the order
of these alternations in different sections of the country, on the authority of persons apparently
more or less well-informed on the subject, but by no means accurate observers. He says that
in the region about Green Bay, Wis., overrun by the fires of 1871, "dense growths of poplars
and birches have sprung up, and are growing rapidly;" but he omits the most important fact
of all, in his failure to state the previous growths of timber, or whether there were any neighboring
growths of poplar along the track of the burnt district from which seed might have been derived.

Here are some of his more important statements:--

"At Clarksville, Ga., oak and hickory lands, when cleared, invariably grew up with pine. This
is true of that region of country generally."

"At Aiken, S.C., the long-leaf pine is succeeded by oaks and other deciduous trees, and vice
versa."

"In Bristol County, Mass., in some cases, after pines have been cut off, oak, maple, and birch
have sprung up abundantly."

"In Hancock County, Ill., oaks have been succeeded by hickories."

"In East Hamburgh, Erie County, N.Y., a growth of hemlock, elm, and soft maple, was succeeded
by beech, soft maple, and hard maple, but a good deal more of the last named than any other."

This is the general character of the summary given, and if its object were simply to show the
fact that these alternations actually took place (one that nobody has disputed in the last
half century), his chapter on the "Alternations of Forest Growths," is a scientific success.
The information really desired in these cases, was that imparted by Dr. Dwight in his suggestive
work of travel, in which all the incidental facts and surrounding circumstances are fully given.
It does not appear from any of the foregoing statements, given as a specimen, that there were
any neighboring trees sufficiently near to have supplied seed for the new forests taking the
place of the old,--manifestly the most important physiological fact connected with the whole
inquiry, whether looking to proper forest-management, or to future "schools of forestry," certain
to be established in this country, as they have been in most of the leading countries of Europe.

It is, however, stated by Dr. Hough, in his voluminous report, that, "in New England, the pine
(without giving its varieties) is often succeeded by the white birch, and, in New Jersey, by
the oak; the succession of oak by pine, and the reverse, in the southern states." And it is
further stated, without reference to the nature and quality of the different soils, or the
absence or presence of neighboring seed-trees, that "poplars and other soft woods are very
often found coming up in pine districts that have been ravaged by fire." "We have noticed,"
he continues, "in Nebraska, ash, elm, and box-elder following cottonwood. In the natural starting
of timber in the prairie region of Illinois, where the stopping of fires allowed, we often
see a hazel coppice; after a time the cratA|gus, and finally the oaks, black-walnuts, and other
timber. These growths are often quite aggressive on the prairies. In Florida, the black-jack
oak usually takes the place of the long-leaf pine." In all these cases, the contiguousness
of similar, or dissimilar growths, is not stated.

He nevertheless cites a most important fact respecting the alternations of timber growth, noticed
by Sir Alexander Mackenzie, in his overland journey from Montreal to the Arctic Ocean, in 1789,
who found, in the vicinity of Slave Lake, that the banks were covered with large quantities
of burnt wood lying on the ground, where young poplar trees had sprung up immediately after
the destruction of the previous growths by fire. In noticing this fact, the indefatigable English
explorer remarks: "It is a very curious and extraordinary circumstance that land covered with
spruce, pine, and white birch, when laid waste by fire, should subsequently produce nothing
but poplars, where none of that species of tree was previously to be found". But facts of a
similar character are too numerous and well-authenticated to be questioned by any intelligent
authority. And they all point to but one solution--that of primordial germs quickened into
life by the necessary environing conditions. The appearance of a single poplar in the locality
named, or even a dozen of them for that matter, might be accounted for on the theory that a
bird of passage had dropped them there after the fire; but, under no conceivable circumstances,
could the dispersion of the requisite amount of seed to plant an extensive burnt district,
along the banks of Slave Lake, have occurred on any other theory than that emphatically set
forth, as a physiological fact, in the Bible genesis.

There is manifestly importance enough attaching to this subject to justify a much wider range
of observation and inquiry than has yet been made. Pine forests have been cut off in Alabama
and Georgia, covering extensive areas, where there was not a single oak tree in a circuit of
miles; and yet the oak has promptly made its appearance, in several varieties, over the whole
cleared district. And it is entirely safe to say that, had the ground been thoroughly examined,
from the surface to ten feet below it, after the pine had been felled, not the first sign of
an acorn could have been met with anywhere within the whole area of the clearing, no matter
whether it covered ten acres, twenty, or a hundred. The paths of the tornadoes we have referred
to conclusively show this. The new-born forests, in these cases, do not come from seed, but
from the living, indestructible, vital principles implanted in the earth, before it was specifically
commanded to "bring forth," in the language of the Bible genesis. The "materialists," like
Professor Bastian, Herbert Spencer, and others, may sneer at this declaration, but let them
advance some rational theory to the contrary, to account for these alternations of forest growths,
before they lay bare the joints of their scientific armor too confidently to the thrusts of
the next new-comer in the field of scientific investigation. Sneers are cheap weapons--the
mere side-arms of pretension and frippery--but they never bear so deadly a gibe as when effectually
turned on the sneerer.

Professor Moritz Wagner, in his description of Mount Ararat, mentions "a singular phenomenon,"
to which his guide drew his attention, "in the appearance of several plants on soil lately
thrown up by an earthquake, which grew nowhere else on the mountain, and had never been observed
in this (that) region before." This writer, thereupon, goes into a disquisition upon the vitality
of long-buried seeds, but only to mar the value of his very important observation. The fact
that these new plants were rejected by the other soil of the mountain--that not thrown up by
the earthquake--is the only other observation of value made by this writer. And the importance
of this one observation lies in the apparent, if not conclusive fact, that the conditions of
the other soil of the mountain were not favorable for the development of the primordial germs,
or vital units, contained in that which was thrown up by the earthquake, a circumstance that
most materially strengthens the view we have taken, as all candid and impartial readers will agree.

Mr. Darwin inadvertently makes a very material concession in favor of the theory we have advanced,
although unconscious of any such theory, except that so broadly and unqualifiedly put forth
by the "panspermists" as to meet with a ready refutation. He is laboring, of course, to strengthen
his position that nature eternally works to get rid of her imperfect forms, or to ensure "the
survival of the fittest." But while his facts accomplish little in this direction, they establish
much in another, as the reader will see.

The attempt is here made, by Mr. Darwin, to convey an altogether different meaning to his facts
than what they will warrant, even as adroitly handled by him. No heath plants were "wholly
changed" in characteristics, but only in proportional numbers; nor did the "twelve new species
of plants" make their appearance by virtue of any law of variability or selection of the fittest.
The growth of scotch fir had simply changed the conditions of the soil, so that certain varieties
of heath growth disappeared for the want of "necessary conditions," and certain varieties of
forest growth made their appearance because conditions favored. Similar, if not greater changes,
are constantly occurring in hundreds of localities in New England, where choked and worn-out
pasture lands are left, untouched by the hand of man, to grow up as best they may into new
forests. The open-field plants and shrubs entirely disappear, as the stronger and more aggressive
trees, taking root in favoring soils, advance in the struggle for supremacy, while the less
hardy and more modest plants--those quietly seeking shelter in the woods--make their appearance,
because they find, beneath the shade of the usurping forest, the precise conditions necessary
for their more successful growth.

No perishable seeds have been awakened from their "sleep of untold centuries" by these changed
conditions of the soil; but nature, everywhere obeying the divine mandate, brings forth her
implanted life in all its bountiful diversity of stalk, leaf, bud, bough, blossom, fruit,--not
in obedience to man's husbandry alone, but because, as the "vicar of God," she must provide
for her benefice. "Let the earth bring forth" is the eternal fiat. Nature forever heeds it,
and forever obeys it. But forget not that nature has her "compunctious visitings," and will
rise up in insurrection against you. Nothing in her breast lies dormant for ages, or even for
an hour. Her appointed times and seasons forbid it. If the butterfly does not sport in her
sunshine to-day, it is because it lies dead in its golden-colored shroud, and can never become
a butterfly. In all her profusion and prodigality--flinging her glittering jewels, even in
mid-winter, over all her enamored woods, and causing her little fountains to leap up from their
crystal beds in delight, that they may be frozen, mid-air, into more sparkling jets--she exhibits
no such munificence as in her unsparing prodigality of life. To be prodigal in this was the
first command she received, and her great heart constantly throbs to give it expression. And
in all this she simply obeys a kindly law which has been implanted in her bosom, and can never
be displanted. She has no need of seeds in her cunning laboratory to perpetuate plant-life,
and only yields them to man for use, and not abuse. He can utilize them if he will, so that
all things of beauty and golden-fruited promise shall be his.

Those who think, therefore, to make nature a debtor, by reversing her laws of propagation and
making her dependent on what she bestows in use, will never find out the smallest scruple of
her excellence, nor add to her glory as a creditor. All things are framed in her prodigality,
and the seeds of plants and trees are no exception to the quality of her bestowals. We may
reason, syllogize, speculate as we will, the first plant and the first tree were not nature's
thankless bastards, but her legitimate and loving offspring. She engendered them in her own
fruitful breast, and her "copy is eterne."

Chapter IV.

The Distribution and Vitality of Seeds.

Few questions have attracted more attention among vegetable physiologists, of late years, than
the dispersion and migration of seeds from place to place in the earth, and it is safe to say
that none has been more unsatisfactorily answered. In the case of quite a number of plants
and trees, special contrivances would seem to have been provided by nature for insuring their
dispersion, as well as migration. With a small number of plants, for instance, the seeds are
discharged for short distances by the explosive force of their seed-vessels, when properly
matured; an equally small number have certain membranous contrivances, called "wings," by which
they may be borne still greater distances; others, again, are provided with light feathery
tufts, to which the seed is attached, and these may be carried by the winds several miles before
finding a lodgment in the soil; while many others are inclosed in prickly and barb-pointed
coverings by which they attach themselves to animals, and even birds, and may be transported
to almost any distance. But with the great majority of plants and trees, as the seeds fall
so they lie, and must continue to lie until they either germinate or perish, or are accidentally
dispersed or scattered by some extrinsic agency. The anxiety of speculative botanists to account
for the recognized alternations of forest and other growths, have led to the different theories
of transportation we have named; and when these theories have been supplemented by the alleged
wonderful vitality of seeds, in the cunning recesses in which nature manages to conceal them,
they imagine the whole difficulty solved, when, in point of fact, it remains wholly unsolved.

This theory of the "wonderful vitality" of seeds is simply one, as we have said, to force a
conclusion--to get rid of a lion in the scientific path. Professor Marsh, with other eminent
and scholarly writers on vegetable physiology, scouts the idea that the seeds of some of our
cereal crops have been preserved for three or four thousand years in the "ashy dryness" of
the Egyptian catacombs. But what better repository in which to preserve them? Certainly, none
of our modern granaries, with all their machinery for keeping the grain dry, or from over-heating.
Nor are the catacombs to be despised, as compared with any out-door means of storage yet suggested
by the wit of man. The only means nature has of storage, or rather of preservation by storage,
is to welcome the seed back to her bosom--the earth from which its parent-seed sprang--where
it may be speedily quickened into life, and bear "other grain," not itself. For "that which
thou sowest is not quickened, except it die;" and much more is that dead which is not quickened.
Whenever seed is thus returned to nature's bosom--all-palpitating as it is with life--whether
it quickens or not, it dies; and there is no resurrection for dead seed from the earth, any
more than there is for the occupants of the exhumed mummy-cases of ancient Thebes.

The belief in this wonderful vitality of seeds, in the positions in which nature deposits them,
is pretty much on a par with that which assigns a thousand years to the life of a crow. As
nobody but the scholastic fool in the fable has ever attempted to verify the correctness of
this latter belief, so it is safe to assume that the experiment of verifying the former will
not be successfully undertaken within the next thousand years, to say the least. It is well
known that the vitality of seeds (so far, at least, as nature handles them) depends, upon her
cunning contrivances for their preservation, as well as their dispersion. But many seeds, in
which these contrivances would seem to be the most perfect, will not germinate after the second
year, and few will do so to advantage after the third or fourth year, even when they have been
kept under the most favorable circumstances, or in uniform dryness and temperature. Farmers,
who have had practical experience in this matter, and care little for what is merely theoretical,
will never plant seed that is three or four years old when they can get that of the previous
year's growth. It is certain that no hickory nut will retain its vitality beyond the first
year of its exposure to a New England soil and climate, and few seeds are better protected
by nature against such exposure; and it is equally questionable whether the chits to Dr. Dwight's
pine cones would have had any better chance of survival at the time the Indians infested the
neighborhood of Northampton, and regularly fired the woods every autumn.

Although Professor Marsh confidently says, in his work on. "Man and Nature," that "the vitality
of seeds seems almost imperishable while they remain in the situations in which nature deposits
them," he will no doubt admit that this statement rests on no experimental knowledge, but simply
on the hypothesis that the new forests and new species of plants to which he refers, originated
from seeds, and not from primordial germs everywhere implanted in the earth. Dr. G. Chaplin
Child, who swallows the "Egyptian wheat" story, mummy-cases and all, in speaking of some of
the English "dykes" or mound-fences which have existed from time well-nigh immemorial, says:
"No sooner are these dykes leveled than the seeds of wild flowers, which must have lain in
them for ages, sprout forth vigorously, just as if the ground had been recently sown with seed."
He also mentions, as a more or less remarkable fact, "that a house, which was known to have
existed for two hundred years, was pulled down, and, no sooner was the surface soil exposed
to the influence of light and moisture, than it became covered with a crop of wild-mustard
or charlock." And he instances these facts to show that the seeds of this charlock, and these
dyke plants, had lain dormant in the soil from the time the dykes were built, and the house
erected. But these physiological facts, however well authenticated they may have been, are
no more conclusive of the presence of dormant seed, than the appearance of the common plantain
about a recently built dwelling-house, where none ever grew before, is proof that the seeds
of this common household plant had lain dormant for ages before the house was erected. We cannot
tell why this common plant follows the domestic household, any more than we can tell why rats
follow civilization. But they are both sufficiently annoying at times, to satisfy us that they
do follow, however inexplicable the reason may be.

The same writer further says, in connection with the foregoing statements: "Instances (of the
vitality of seeds) might easily be multiplied almost indefinitely, but we shall be satisfied
with noticing one of a very extraordinary kind. In the time of the Emperor Hadrian, a man died
soon after he had eaten plentifully of raspberries. He was buried at Dorchester. About twenty-eight
years ago, the remains of this man, together with coins of the Roman Emperor, were discovered
in a coffin (!) at the bottom of a barrow, thirty feet under the surface. The man had thus
lain undisturbed for some 1700 years. But the most curious circumstance connected with the
case was, that the raspberry seeds were recovered from the stomach (!) and sown in the garden
of the Horticultural Society, where they germinated and grew into healthy bushes," Here is
circumstantiality enough to satisfy the most unlimited skepticism, provided that the facts
were satisfactorily vouched for by the living, and the record left by the dead were sufficiently
explicit in detail, and conclusive in identity of subject. Then to suggest even a reasonable
doubt would, we admit, be equivalent to making truth a circumstantial liar.

But this most remarkable story will bear repetition, with a few running comments. "The man
(presumably a Roman soldier) died seventeen hundred years ago." This is not unlikely. "He died
of eating too plentifully of raspberries;" a circumstance not altogether improbable. "He was
buried at Dorchester;" where, of course, there were no records of deaths and burials kept at
the time, and hence, we should have to question the record, if one were presented. "He was
also buried in a coffin, or, at least, dug up in one." This statement must be received cum
grano. The Romans never used coffins, and, under the empire, they burnt most of their dead.
After a battle, however, they generally piled them up in heaps, and, where there was a lack
of fuel to burn them, they covered them with the surface soil, taking good care to put a Roman
coin in each soldier's mouth, so that he might pay the ferryman in Hades. "There was thirty-five
feet of surface soil shoveled on top of this particular Roman,"--showing that he was a very
consequential personage in camp. No wonder, then, that all these nice particularities of statement
should have been circumstantially noted in the commanding general's "order of the day," and
thus been handed down to posterity for the future advancement of science! "He had lain undisturbed
for nearly two thousand years." Almost any one would have done so, with that amount of surface
soil shoveled on top of him. "The seeds were recovered from his stomach;" that is, after improvidently
snatching away the Roman soldier's life, they took good care to preserve their own, as well
as the stomach in which they were deposited. "The seeds were planted in the Horticultural Society's
garden, where they flourished vigorously."

All these circumstantially narrated facts (?) were gathered (by somebody) about forty years
ago. In what authentic and satisfactorily verified record are they to be found to-day? The
writer gives us no clue. The stomach, the coffin, the Roman coins, some of the wonderfully
preserved seeds, as well as the obolus in the mouth of the dead soldier, should be found somewhere.
They could not have disappeared in a night. If they had withstood the relentless tooth of time
for seventeen hundred years, in the surface soil of Dorchester, the last forty years ought
not to have obliterated all trace of them. The story is simply too incredible for belief, if
printed in forty "Great Architects of Nature."

From 1847 to 1851, the writer went into any number of Wisconsin mounds--those not essentially
dissimilar from the Roman barrows in England--in company with the late I. A. Lapham, of Milwaukee;
and the idea of finding any human stomach, with or without seeds in it--with probably not half
the time intervening between burial and exhumation, as in the case of this Roman soldier--would
have been instantly rejected by the distinguished archaeologist accompanying us. Indeed, had
any such discovery been made, he would have unhesitatingly pronounced the mound tampered with
for the purposes of imposition. It is possible that surface soil, containing some raspberry
seeds, may have been taken to the "Horticultural Society's garden" to which Dr. Child refers,
and planted there as stated; but that they were from a human stomach that had lain buried for
seventeen hundred years in the surface soil of England, or any other country, is simply preposterous.
It caps the climax of all the wonderful "seed-stories" yet manufactured for the scientific
mind to wrestle with. It is easy enough to find soil about old stumps, and fallen trunks and
branches of trees, which will produce raspberries, either with or without the presence of seed.
And soil might have been taken from the bottom of this Dorchester barrow which produced them.
But the appearance of the bushes must have depended on the conditions of the soil, not on seeds
eaten by a Roman soldier nearly two thousand years ago. That version of the story must be summarily
dismissed the attention of scientific men. The botanical name of this plant is Erechthites
hieracifolia, and it is well known to the botanists of New England. Its seeds are almost as
destructible by fire as thistle-down itself; and it is not to be supposed that any of the seeds
borne by the winds or by birds, and scattered through the clearing before it was burned, could
have survived the intense heat to which they must have been subjected in the burning off of
a heavy and dense growth of felled timber. The seeds, if any, must have been scattered after
the fire, and not before it. But these heavy clearings--those in which we have witnessed the
most abundant crops of fire-weed--are generally burnt off in the early spring, when there are
no seeds to be scattered, as all those of the previous year's growth find their proper lodgment
in the soil before the winter fully closes in. The seeds for which Professor Marsh would have
to search, therefore, would be those grown in some corresponding latitude, or plant zone, in
the southern hemisphere, not within thousands of miles from the clearing in which they so promptly
make their appearance.

Professor Marsh suggests, however, that they may have come from "the deeply buried seeds of
a former vegetation, quickened into life by the heat." But had he examined these plants, in
their incipient stages of growth, he would have found that they sprung directly from the surface
of the burnt soil, their initial rootlets hardly extending to the depth of two-thirds of an
inch below it, and where they must have utterly perished from the heat. The theory he suggests
is the only possible one, he thinks, to account for the mystery, and hence its suggestion by
him. But he has only to pass one of the delicate seeds of this plant through the flame of a
candle to see that it instantly perishes by fire. His suggested theory must be abandoned, therefore,
and that of the Bible genesis accepted in its place.

The fact is, and it ought to be well known to the closer student of nature, that the fire-weed
makes its appearance in the "conditions" of the burnt soil, just as stramonium does in the
conditions of the soil where a coal-pit has been recently burned; that is, not from seed, but
from "vital units," or germs, everywhere present in the earth--those taking advantage of environing
conditions, just as Bacteria or Torultz spring from the proper organic infusions. And the young
shoots of stramonium, in a recently burned coal-pit, will be found to spring directly from
the surface of the burnt ground, where all seeds and living organism must have perished in
the heat, and not at any considerable depth below it. Their first appearance is on the immediate
surface of the burnt ground, the same as in the case of fire-weed, and at a time when there
were no seeds to be distributed, except such as must have come from the southern hemisphere,
or been casually picked up by birds, and taken their slim chances of survival after passing
through the natural "gristmills" of the birds. And even this supposition, would only account
for the appearance of a single stramonium plant or two, not for a thick bed of it covering
the entire ground. The theory of seed-distribution, in this and other cases, is wholly out
of the question; as much so as when white clover makes its appearance on a closely-grazed prairie,
hundreds of miles away from where there has been a single sprig of clover growing in a thousand
years. Every closely observant person, living for any length of time on our western prairies,
is familiar with the fact that when the rank and hardier grasses, usually growing thereon,
are effectually fed down by stock, and especially by sheep, the prairie grasses disappear,
and the ground at once comes in with white clover, and the other nutritious gramma or grasses
of our common pasture lands. No seed has been sown in these localities, and none could have
been found had every square inch of the surface soil been examined by the most powerful microscope.
The white clover and these nutritious grasses make their appearance on these prairies, just
as the first sprig of vegetation did on the earth, not from seed, but from preA"xisting vital
units or primordial germs, implanted therein from the beginning, and awaiting the necessary
conditions for their development and growth.

The "bird theory" is the one almost universally relied upon for the explanation of these phenomena,
where the seeds distributed, or supposed to be distributed, are not winged. But we are satisfied
that birds perform no such important office, in the matter of seed-distribution, as is generally
attributed to them. We have examined, during the past two seasons, a large number of bird-droppings,
and find our previous impressions respecting them fully verified. With all the more delicate
seeds--those of our common field grasses and weeds--the chances are a thousand to one that
none of them will ever pass the cloaca of the bird eating them, in any condition to germinate.
All seed-eating birds are also gravel-eaters; and the pebbles and gravel they eat are mostly
silex, or the material from which our best buhrstones are made. These pass into the gizzard,
or pyloric division of the bird's stomach, where they are utilized, the same as we utilize
our buhrstones. The gizzard has sharply corrugated interior walls, extremely thick and muscular,
which involuntarily contract and expand, giving the bird a tremendous grinding power over his
food, considering the size of his grinding apparatus. The seeds--all the seeds, in fact, he
eats--pass at once into his crop, or the natural "hopper" to his "gristmill," where they undergo
a moistening or macerating process previous to being ground into the finest pulp in the gizzard.
As a general rule, all the seeds a bird eats are ground into this pulpy state before they pass
into the intestinal canal, extending from the gizzard to the cloaca. The hard, semi-translucent,
and highly elastic outer coating of most small seeds, may be measurably preserved in its passage
through the gizzard, and, resuming its oval shape in the thinner pulpy mass contained in the
upper portion of the intestine, present the appearance of seed in the cloacal discharges, and
thus deceive the casual observer. But the use of a spatula and a small piece of polished stone
slab will show that the entire discharge is excrementitious matter, with the single exception
of this silicious coating of the seeds.

The case is different, however, with the fruit-eating birds. The fruits they consume are retained
but a comparatively short time in the crop, pass hurriedly through the gizzard, and no doubt
carry along with them some of the smaller seeds of berries, and now and then the pit of a cherry
or small plum. The gizzard, in these cases, is simply gorged with the pulp and juices of the
fruit, its muscular action more or less relaxed, and some of the seeds consequently escape
the grinding process they would otherwise undergo. And yet we are satisfied that a majority
of these seeds even, are more or less thoroughly triturated by a healthy gravel-eating bird.
This would certainly be the case if they were retained for any length of time in the pyloric
division of the bird's stomach. All birds have gizzards, but their grinding capacity depends
very much on the character of the food they eat. Birds of prey, and others subsisting mostly
or entirely on animal food, have thin, membranous, and comparatively flabby gizzards; while
those living on hard grains and seeds have extremely thick, powerful, and muscular ones,--those
capable of crushing up and thoroughly triturating all the food they take into their crops.
These gizzards are nature's gristmills, and they grind exceedingly fine. If any seed escapes,
it is because the mill has been flooded by the bird, and not because of any defect in the grinding
apparatus.

These birds are not, therefore "natural sowers of seeds," as Professor Marsh and some others
claim; but are, at most, only accidental or chance-sowers. Nature never designed that they
should do anything more than consume the food they eat, or submit it to the proper action of
their digestive organs. It might as well be claimed that the secretary bird is a "natural sower
of serpents," as that many of the grain-eating birds are "the natural sowers of seeds." The
theory is too foraminated--too full of loopholes and unsatisfactory conditions--to be accepted
as an explanation of the more general phenomena presented. The fruit-eating quadrupeds are,
relatively, far better sowers of seeds than the birds, for they eat fruit without sending their
grists to mill. Dr. Dwight rejected the transportation theory as early as 1820, and Professor
Marsh gives any number of cases where it was necessary for him to abandon it. And yet some
of our ablest writers, publishing works of quite recent date, adhere to it as the only theory
that accounts for all the phenomena presented.

Professor George Thurber, in speaking of the dissemination of seeds, finds other agencies therefor
than winds, birds, quadrupeds, etc., such as we have already named. For instance, he claims
that rivers, ocean currents, mountain torrents, and even wars, contribute largely towards their
dispersion and dissemination throughout different parts of the earth. All this may be true
to a limited extent; but none of these enumerated agencies will account for more than a very
few of the many well-authenticated facts we have given, and many others that might be given,
if our limits permitted. Among the instances where wars have had, or are claimed to have had,
an important agency in the distribution of seeds throughout an invaded country, he mentions
the fact that "after our late civil war, a little leguminous plant (Lespedeza striata) sprang
up all over the southern states," and adds, "that it was not known how it came, or where from,
but its native country is Japan." In some parts of the South it is known as "Japan clover,"
and is highly valued as a forage plant. But the war had nothing more to do with the appearance
of this plant "all over the southern states," than the changes of the moon, or the phenomenal
man therein. The plant had been noticed in certain localities in the South before the war,
but the circumstance of its very general appearance throughout a large area of that section
of country, was not particularly noticed until the confederate troops began to move from one
southern state to another, when, finding it a valuable forage plant, they naturally enough
regarded it as a providential dispensation, especially in those sections where other forage
plants and nutritious gramma were not abundant. But this plant would have made its appearance
just the same had the war never been thought of as a possible remedy for aggressive legislation,
however real or imaginary it may have been.

It can be easily accounted for, however, on the theory we have suggested--that of the germinal
principle of life implanted in the earth, as the Bible genesis indubitably indicates. The plant
in question has long been a native of Japan, which lies in the same warm temperate zone as
the southern states. The same general hygrometric and thermometric conditions prevail throughout
the two countries or sections of country. These, added to the necessary telluric conditions,
give the required moisture, heat, and soil-constituents for the development of the Japan clover
in the South, the same as it was originally developed in its native country. And it is just
as much native to the South now, as it was hundreds or thousand's of years ago to Japan. It
did not come from seeds scattered by war, or any other imaginable agency of man, but from the
indestructible, vital units or germs implanted in the earth itself. Had the plant appeared
in any one locality, or even in half a dozen separate localities, in the South, it might possibly
have been accounted for on the theory of Professor Thurber. But its simultaneous appearance
over "all the southern states," as he puts it, absolutely negatives any such theory. Neither
winds, river or ocean currents, casual mountain torrents, birds, quadrupeds, war, or even man
himself, could have effected this sudden and wide distribution of the plant in question. It
came as did all other plant-life, in the first instance, from geographical conditions--those
favoring the development of primordial germs--just as the different organic infusions, experimentally
prepared by the physiologist, produce their respective forms of infusorial life; each distinctive
form depending on the chemical conditions of the infusion at the time the microscopic examination
is made. Change the conditions, or defer the examination until the conditions themselves are
changed, and other and different forms of life will make their appearance, in harmony with
the physiological law we have named.

This wonderful play of the vital forces of nature is no less dependant on "conditions"--on
the necessary pre-existing plasma, chemically balanced soils, organic solutions, etc.--than
the alleged "dynamical aggregates," "molecules organiques," "plastide particles," or "highly
differentiated life-stuff," insisted upon by the physicists, in their materialistic theories
of life. These physicists make even the slightest change in developmental phases--whether statical,
as in the case of crystals, or dynamical, as in the case of living organisms--to depend on
physical conditions,--those aiding and abetting what they call the "molecular play of physical
forces." But with their theory that matter and motion are the only self-subsistent, indestructible
elements in the universe, what "molecular play" can be attributed to matter but that which
is derived from motion, or some one of its alleged correlates? We can only imagine two sorts
of motion as possible metaphysical conceptions in connection with matter--molar motion, or
that relating to matter moving in mass, and molecular motion, or that relating to the movements
of matter in its unaggregated form, or as confined to molecules.

But motion itself is not an absolute entity. It is not so much even as a collocating or placing
force of matter itself. It is, at best, only a mechanical impulse imparted by one moving body
to another; or, more accurately speaking, a continuous change of place in a moving body. In
other words, it is simply a process or mode of action, and stands in about the same relation
to matter as growth does to a living plant or tree. Independently of matter it has no existence,
either objectively or subjectively, or even as a metaphysical conception. To allege its indestructibility,
as the physicists do, is simply to predicate an additional property of indestructible matter.
We may call it "force"--something that constantly expends itself in a moving body--but it is
utterly incapable of definition, or of conception even, except as it stands related to such
moving body. All the marvellous "correlates of motion," therefore, producing such wonderful
effects upon matter, in both its molar and molecular states or conditions, are nothing more
nor less than vague and inconclusive inductions, derived from premises having, at best, nothing
but a relative existence in a universe of moving matter. It would be decidedly better to agree
with Haeckel, that matter is the only actual existence, than to predicate of matter a co-existent
and wholly inexplicable "somewhat," whereon to base a purely physical hypothesis of life.

But let us return from this slight digression. The beautiful and purely local fern (Schizoea
pusilla) growing in the pine barrens of New Jersey, affords quite as conclusive proof of the
correctness of the Bible genesis of life as the phenomenal appearance of Japan clover in the
South. It was at one time supposed that this most delicate and beautiful of all our ferns was
peculiar to the New Jersey pine barrens. But it has been ascertained that it grows quite as
abundantly in similar barrens in New Zealand, which are in the south temperate zone, at about
the same latitude south, that these pine barrens of New Jersey occupy in the temperate zone
north. So that, at whatever period this fern originally made its appearance in either locality,
it unquestionably found the exact thermometric, hygrometric, telluric, and other conditions
necessary for the development of its vital germs. Take any accurate, or even half-accurate,
chart of plant distribution on the earth's surface, and it will be found that, everywhere,
under the same favoring conditions, plants of the same genera and species make their appearance
independently of any known processes of dissemination in the case of seeds. The distribution
is not one of seeds, but rather of geographical conditions--thermometric, hygrometric, telluric,
and possibly chemical. And this is true of all vegetation, whether growing in the same plant
zones, in high latitudes, at high altitudes, or under one degree of temperature and moisture
or another. Whenever the telluric conditions are the same or similar, in the respective localities
named, and the temperature and moisture correspond, the necessary plant distribution follows
in obedience to the divine mandate--"Let the earth bring forth." This is the one uniform law
that governs everywhere, and the only one that accounts for all the diversified manifestations
of plant-life, now, as heretofore, taking place upon our globe. And the same is measurably
true of animal life. It accounts for the appearance of every form of life in organic infusions;
for Bacteria in the blood, TorulA| in the tissues, plastide particles, morphological cells,
and every other vital manifestation, from the smallest conceivable "unit" of life in protaplasmic
matter, to the lordliest and most defiant forest oak that ever bared its arms to the storms
and tempests of centuries. A purely materialistic science may perk its head with an air of
affected incredulity, and superciliously turn aside from this hypothesis, because it does not
shock our veneration for the Sacred Scriptures, but let its special advocates advance some
more consistent and rational life-theory than that of "molecular machinery worked by molecular
force," or content themselves, with Dr. Gull, in confessing that they are unable to draw the
first line between "living matter" and "dead matter," as they absurdly use these terms.

It is conceded that much extravagant speculation has been wasted upon this question of the
distribution of seeds. The ambition of each new writer has seemingly been to hit upon some
new theory of distribution. The "bird theory" is a failure, as we have shown; nor do they invariably
fly due east or west, so as to supply the several climatic zones with their respective vegetations.
The same is true of the "squirrel theory," for this nimble little rodent is as likely to head
north or south as to follow the course of the sun; the "wind theory" is subject to too many
shifts and changes to be accounted a reliable agency; the "river-and-ocean-current theories"
are still less satisfactory, since rivers flow in diverse directions, and ocean currents bear
with safety only their own aquatic plants; the "mummy-case theory" is hardly an accredited
agency, and the "war theory" is attended with too much destruction of life to be safely relied
on as conserving the vital forces of nature. The climatic zones, and high and low altitudes,
have still to be consulted to get at the real causes of distribution, or such as conclusively
satisfy the scientific mind. For no single plant is really a cosmopolite. They are simply the
habitats of their own separate zones, except as high altitudes are reached, and climatic and
other conditions favor the appearance of such vegetation as belongs to other plant zones. If
we would find the more common plants and weeds of New England in North Carolina or Tennessee,
we must go into the mountainous regions of those states, at an altitude which compensates for
the difference in latitude, and where the influencing conditions of plant-life are essentially
the same. In such localities, we shall find the same household plants, garden weeds, and general
vegetation, as in higher northern latitudes, not because their seeds have been borne thither
from New England or elsewhere, but because the same climatic, telluric and other conditions
prevail as in the more northern localities. And these conditions are what determine the development
and growth of local vegetations.

And so of the alpine firs, grasses, harebells, lichens, mosses, etc. Their seeds have not been
scattered, by any known agencies, over intervening regions, for thousands of miles or more,
in order to find lodgment on these lofty mountain cones; but, conditions being the same, the
same vegetable growths appear. This is nature's method of propagating "vital units" and diversifying
plant-life--geographical conditions everywhere determining the proper distribution. But if
nature is so prolific of vital resources, in the propagation of plant-life, what need has she
of natural seeds? We anticipate this inquiry only to answer it; for we recognize it as a legitimate
one in this connection. Our answer is that the seeds are given for the use of man, that he
may control and utilize vegetation, and not have to depend on more or less uncertain conditions.
Agricultural chemistry must be carried to a much higher degree of perfection than it is likely
to reach in the next ten centuries at least, to determine whether any particular plat of ground
has been chemically balanced for the growth of wheat, to the exclusion of other cereal crops.
Besides, the process of soil-balancing might be altogether too expensive to be indulged in
by judicious husbandry. These chemical conditions admit of too many possible failures, in balancing
even the smallest patch of ground, to justify experiments in the direction named. Seeds also
subserve the important subsidiary purpose of supplying food for many birds and animals, more
or less useful to man.

But chemistry has its limits as to usefulness in all human laboratories. As man's wisdom is
limited, so is his power over the elementary forces of nature confined to very narrow boundaries.
It is given to him to search out many inventions, and to pry, thus far and no farther, into
the secrets of nature, or, more properly speaking, into the secrets of God. There is no doubt
that if our chemico-molecular theorists respecting life-phenomena, could produce, in their
laboratories, the exact inter-uterine plasma, or plasmic conditions, of an animal--any animal,
in fact--and continue these conditions during the proper period of gestation, they might produce
life de novo.[13] But the most daring physicist would stand aghast at the bare proposal of
such an experiment. Neither his knowledge of chemistry, nor the present uncertain value attaching
to "molecular machinery," would justify him, for a moment, in entering upon such a purely tentative
and empirical an undertaking.

It is hardly necessary to assume that the same law of vital force governs in the appearance
and geographical distribution of fungi, as universally obtains in the higher and more complex
vegetal growths. And although it may be difficult, in some instances, to draw the precise line
between certain low mycological forms and the amoeboid and some other primitive manifestations
of animal life, yet all vegetable physiologists agree in assigning a purely vegetable origin
to all the primary groups of fungi--their general cellular character determining their proper
place in classification. And in all their extended family groups, pervading nature as widely
as animal and vegetable life, we find that uniform chemical and other conditions produce uniform
mycological results. Spores are no more necessary for their appearance, in the first instance,
than acorns are essential to the appearance of an oak forest when it succeeds the pine. Wherever
the necessary conditions of moisture and heat are found to obtain, in connection with decayed
or decaying substances, the particular form of fungus indicated thereby, whether parasitic
or non-parasitic, will make its appearance. Continuously damp walls, or wall-paper, will produce
them in specific variety, not because their invisible spores are flying about in the atmosphere
to find appropriate lodgment, but because the necessary conditions obtain for their manifestation,
or for the development of their vital units--those everywhere diffused, and ready to burgeon
forth from the proper matrix, or from certain nutrient conditions to be met with in all vegetable
substances, after the process of decay has commenced. Some orders appear only in a single matrix,
but the greater part of them flourish on different decaying substances.

Dr. M.C. Cooke, in speaking of non-parasitic fungi, and especially of moulds, says: "It would
be far more difficult to mention substances on which they are never developed than to indicate
where they have been found." The parasitic fungi, however, generally confine themselves to
certain special plants, and rarely to any other. It is only the condition of these special
plants, when affected by decay, that seems favorable for their development; not because their
spores (assuming that all fungi come from spores,) possess the intelligence to fly about and
hunt up the proper nutrient matter on which to subsist during their developmental progress
from specific spores into genetic forms of life. The rust or blight of grain is not the cause,
therefore, but rather the result, of the common disease known as "blight." Without some excess
or deficiency of absorption and elaboration in the growth of grain or plants--something essentially
disturbing their normal and harmonious processes of development--no mycological forms would
appear on their stems or roots, nor would they develop themselves on their fading leaves or
congested and decaying fruit. To say that there is any intelligent preference in these fungi--the
different species of Mucor, for instance--for disgusting offal over decaying fruit, bread,
paste, preserves, etc., is to predicate a higher degree of intelligence of fungus spores than
of the average brute creation, with all its wonderful instincts for guidance.

We might refer to other classes of fungi developing themselves in the testa of hard seeds,
and in the interior of acorns, sweet chestnuts, etc.,--those in which there is no discoverable
external opening by the aid of the microscope--to show the absolute absurdity of the theory
that the spores of fungi, including the non-parasitic and other autonomous moulds, go madly
foraging about the country in pursuit of decaying cocoanuts, apples, pears, plums, oranges,
etc., and even committing their depredations on hermetically canned fruits, the concealed honeycomb
of beehives, the pupa of moths, and whatever else they may intelligently select as a desirable
matrix or habitat. No such theory as this will stand the test of thorough research and investigation,
in any mycological direction. Fungi everywhere make their initial appearance in the conditions
of decay, as plants and trees originally make theirs in the environing conditions of vital
manifestation. That our life-giving atmosphere--the "pater omnipotens Ather" of Virgil, "descending
into the bosom of his joyous spouse (the earth) in fructifying showers, and great himself,
mingling with her great body" for the development of all things of life--should be so immeasurably
thronged with death-pursuing fungi that myriads of their spores might dance without jostling
on the point of a cambric needle, is infinitely more fanciful than the conceptions of the poet,
in personifying the atmosphere as "father Ather," and the earth as his "joyous spouse." But
life, with its "pardlike spirit, beautiful and swift," has reached its highest conceptions
in the mind of the poet, not in the speculations of the scientist. What a "mingled yarn," spun
from many-colored yet invisible threads, is it in the creative mind of a Shakespeare, and how
it looms up into "a dome of many-colored glass, staining the white radiance of eternity," under
the magic touch of a Shelley! And yet how is it dwarfed down to a contemptible piece of "molecular
machinery" by the scientist--one so utterly contemptible in its manifestations that it is ordered
to take "a back seat" in this universe of all-potential matter and motion!

Dr. Cooke, in his "Handbook of British Fungi," virtually concedes that the spores of the large
puff-ball (Lycoperdon giganteum), as well as those of mushrooms, truffles, and other edible
fungi (those with whose methods of propagation man is best acquainted), may be produced artificially.
But the process by which their production is thus effected, is more properly a natural than
an artificial one. In speaking of truffle-grounds, he says (quoting from Broome) "that whenever
a plantation of beech, or beech and fir, is made in the chalky districts of Salisbury Plain,
after the lapse of a few years truffles are produced, and that the plantations continue productive
for a period of from ten to fifteen years, after which they cease to be so." No truffle spores
were planted in these cases, but the conditions of the soil, interlaced by the roots and shaded
by the branches of the young beech trees, or the beech and fir, became favorable for the development
of truffle "germs," and they made their appearance just as mushrooms do in caves and other
places, where artificial beds are made and chemically balanced for their development and growth.
And the reason why they disappeared, after a period of ten or fifteen years, was simply because
the proper nutriment of the soil was exhausted, and not in consequence of its being too deeply
shaded by the growing trees. One uniform rule would seem to govern in the culture of this much-coveted
fungus. Wherever the necessary environing conditions obtain, they appear, and wherever these
conditions fail, they disappear, notwithstanding the most persistent efforts to save them by
watering the soil with fresh infusions of the plant. In proof of this, one form of truffle
(Tuber A|stivum) appears under beech trees, another form (Tuber macrosporum) under oak trees,
and still a third form (Tuber brumale) under oaks and white poplars; showing that so slight
a change in soil conditions as that resulting from the presence of poplars among oaks, produces
a very material change in the character of the fungus--one amounting to a specific difference
in variety.

The process of artificially producing mushroom spores is a very simple one, and may be easily
followed. You have only to collect a quantity of horse-droppings, mingle with them some common
road sand, place them under cover, see that they are well beaten down in order to prevent over-heating--turning
them occasionally for the same purpose--and in due time they will generate sufficient spores
for a dozen mushroom beds of the ordinary size. The reason for their appearance is the same
as that governing truffle spores--they come whenever conditions favor, that is, whenever the
soil is chemically balanced for their development and growth. In other words, they come because
it is just as impossible for them not to come, in their proper environing conditions, as it
is for the earth, in its present cosmical relations, not to respond to its axial rotation.
"Let the earth bring forth" is just as much an outspoken law of nature, and one as inexorably
obeyed, as that unerring force of gravity which led Leverrier, in the faith of his inductions,
to indicate the precise point in the heavens where the far-off planet, now bearing his name,
might be seen by the required telescope.

Dr. Cooke, quoting Mr. Cuthill's directions for producing mushroom spores, says: "These little
collections of horse-droppings and road sand, if kept dry in shed, hole, or corner, under cover,
will, in a short time, generate plenty of spawn, and will be ready to spread on the surface
of the bed in early autumn." The collections should, of course, be made in the early summer.
But it is no part of our object to indicate, in this connection, the process of truffle or
mushroom culture. We merely refer to the methods to show that the vital units, or germinal
principles of life, in the case of fungi, are just as dependent on "conditions" for their development,
as were the primordial germs of the gigantic cryptogams of the carboniferous era. These primordial
germs, or the ZRA of the Bible genesis, must have preceded the first fungous growth, as they
preceded the first spore-bearing cryptogam.

M. Gasparin, in his report on the production of truffles, made to the great "Paris Exposition"
of 1855, refers to the "natural truffle-grounds at Vaucluse," where the "common oak produces
truffles like the evergreen oak;" although, in other localities, owing no doubt to the different
conditions of the soil, those gathered at the base of the one species of oak differ very materially
from those gathered at the base of the other. All these experimental results, and many others
we might give in connection with the culture of edible fungi, point to the conditions of the
soil, produced by natural rather than artificial means, as all-essential for the propagation
of fungus spores, as well as their development into full-sized plants. The cultivation of other
and minuter fungi, for scientific purposes, need not be referred to in this connection. The
same general observations will be found to apply in the case of all the experiments tried,
although some very curious and remarkable modifications occur where pseudospores are to be
found in the micelium of different plants. Nearly all these fungi have their own parasites,
originating undoubtedly in the diseased conditions of the plant from which they derive their
nutriment. Indeed, all fungi, whether parasitic or non-parasitic, have their origin, more or
less definitely occurring, in decay. It is no more true that death is a necessity of life,
than that life is an equal necessity of death. As out of the dead past springs the eternally
living present, so from the "muddy vesture of decay" spring all the marvellous powers of reproduction
with which nature was endowed from the beginning.

But it is unnecessary to dwell longer on the spores of fungi. As with the seeds of plants and
trees, these spores never had an existence, and never could have had one, before the first
independent fungus appeared to produce them. The fungus before the spore is the inevitable
induction. No distinction between necessary and contingent truth can ever take a stronger hold
than this on the human mind. Whence, then, the first fungus? or whence, rather, all those colonies,
families, orders, divisions, and countless distinct individuals, extant everywhere, in the
mycological world? The answer we shall give will be anticipated from what we have already so
confidently affirmed. Life comes from Life, as spirit comes from God. And when "the spirit
of God" moved upon the face of the depths--upon the face of all the earth--at whatever stage
in the progress of our planet, from its original form to its present myriad-thronged condition
of life, that transcendent event occurred, Nature, as we half-idolatrously worship her, received
her first baptism of life, and her solemn consecration as "the vicar of God." And nature has
been true to both her baptism and her consecration. She claims no worship, no adoration, no
idolatrous homage from man, but continually sends up her eternal chant and choral anthem of
praise to the great Giver of life. Every flower of the field, every blade of grass, every stream
that mirrors the heavens above her, every mountain top from which she points an index finger,
every breeze in which she whispers, and every cataract in which she speaks, all proclaim the
power, the wisdom, the goodness of God--the source of all life in the universe, from the minutest
spore to all-inventive, soul-endowed man.

Chapter V.

Plant Migration and Interglacial Periods.

Among the leading propositions laid down by Arthur Renfrey, Esq., F.R.S. etc., etc., in the
able article prepared by him for "The Physical Atlas of Natural Phenomena," by Alexander Keith
Johnston, Edinburg Edition, 1856, on "The Geographical Distribution of the most Important Plants
Yielding Food," are the following:--

1. "The primary condition of the existence of any species of plant, is its absolute creation,
of which we know nothing.

2. "But we assume each species to have been created but once in time and in place, and that
its present diffusion is the result of its own law of reproduction under the favorable or restrictive
influences of laws external to it.[14]

3. "The most important of external laws are those relating to climate, since any species can
flourish only within narrower or wider, but always fixed limits, of temperature, humidity etc.,

4. "The climate depends primarily on latitude, since this indicates distance from the source
of heat, and the degree of obliquity of the heating rays."

There are other governing conditions, of course, such as the average rain-fall, distance from
the equator, the elevation above the sea level in the various mountain systems of vegetation,
etc., including the hygrometric, thermometric, telluric, and other conditions, of the several
localities in which the different species of vegetation make their appearance.

But why should this distinguished naturalist insist upon the specific creation of either plants
or animals? No scientific work of any paramount value confines the creative power of the universe
to such narrow and restricted limits. Nor is there a particle of evidence to be drawn from
the Bible that either plants or animals primarily originated in pairs. "Let the earth bring
forth" is a command without limitation, or restriction, as to time, place, or number; and there
is no reason to doubt that myriads of living forms swarmed everywhere, at first as now, in nature.

The idea, as expressed by Mr. Renfrey, that they were specifically created at one time and
place only, whether in pairs, tens, twenties, or hundreds, is neither a rational one, nor has
it any experience-argument or scientific authority on which to stand. Take, for instance, an
experience-argument directly in point:--When the salt wells were first bored at Syracuse, N.Y.,
and the salt water was suffered to flow in waste over the low grounds about the salt-works,
the small saline plants peculiar to salt-marshes in the warm temperate zone made their appearance,
not in pairs, tens or hundreds, but in thousands rather, and have nourished there ever since.
They came because conditions favored; because a salt-marsh had been artificially produced hundreds
of miles away from the sea coast. This is only one of a large number of cases--more than we
have room to specify in this connection--showing that wherever man, artificially or otherwise,
produces the necessary conditions of plant-life, nature responds to the germinal law precisely
as she did millions of years ago when the first salt-marsh favored the appearance of these
saline plants--such as grow under no other conditions or circumstances.

But this idea of plants coming primarily from a single pair of progenitors, and each primordial
pair branching off into diversified offspring, as in the case of the cabbage, assumed to be
the original ancestor of all the turnips and ruta-bagas, may be an article of botanical faith,
but never of experimental proof. "Entia non sunt multiplicanda prA|ter necessitatem" is an
old and well-approved maxim, applicable alike to the countless myriads of living organisms,
as to the innumerable crystalline forms to be found everywhere in nature. Nothing is produced
without the necessary conditions on which its production depends. "Necessity," in its primitive
signification, is a term of the very widest meaning, and most universal application. It applies
as well to the course of nature as to the course of human events--to the laws of vegetable
and animal growth as to the inevitable march and order of celestial movements. As applied to
any form of life-manifestation it implies a law of development and growth, as well as the physiological
conditions without which vital manifestations are impossible. For law, in a physiological sense,
is that mode of vital action by which effects are invariably and inevitably produced.[15] And
this law is just as dependent on necessary vital conditions as vital manifestations are dependent
on a physiological law. There must always be this reciprocal dependence and relationship between
conditioning causes and effects. Whenever and wherever the necessary vital conditions exist,
the physiological law takes effect, and the requisite vital manifestation is witnessed. And
this is no doubt as true of animal as of vegetable life.

The earth's surface has been divided into eight separate zones, each of which is distinguished
by its peculiar or characteristic fauna and flora. Their order, measured from the geographical
equator, is as follows;

  1. The Equatorial Zone, extending from  0A deg. to 15A deg..
  2. " Tropical       "      "         " 15A deg. "  23A deg..
  3. " Sub-tropical   "      "         " 23A deg. "  34A deg..
  4. " Warm Temperate "      "         " 34A deg. "  45A deg..
  5. " Cold           "      "         " 45A deg. "  58A deg..
  6. " Sub-arctic     "      "         " 58A deg. "  66A deg..
  7. " Arctic         "      "         " 66A deg. "  72A deg..
  8. " Polar          "      "         " 72A deg. "  82A deg..

These several zones become sixteen in number when considered with reference to both the northern
and southern hemispheres. And a like division of isothermals is made in the case of all our
mountain systems, extending in both directions from the equator. In ascending our equatorial,
tropical, and sub-tropical mountains, we find, of course, at their several bases, the temperature
of the zones in which they respectively lie; from two thousand to three thousand feet, we reach
the next higher zone, and so on, at about the same ratio of altitude, until we ascend to the
polar zone or the line of perpetual ice and snow. The peak of Teneriffe, for instance, lies
in the sub-tropical zone, but, at the elevation named, we meet with the vegetation which characterizes
the warm temperate zone. And this holds true of all our mountain systems, in all latitudes,
and at all altitudes, in all parts of the globe.

They all present the same or strikingly similar characteristics in plant life, with such variations
and modifications only as might be accounted for, were all the influencing conditions and surrounding
circumstances, modifying geographical distribution, known to us. From the lowest to the highest
regions in which vegetation flourishes, this rule, with slight exceptions only, will be found
to obtain, and it is in this direction that the observations of the scientific, as well as
practical botanist, should hereafter be extended.

Humboldt noticed this characteristic feature of the earth's vegetation quite early in his explorations,
and accordingly divided the tropical mountains, as the earth's surface was then divided, into
three separate zones, the tropical, the temperate, and the frigid. But a closer classification
now distinguishes them into the same number of zones as are marked, in approximate isotherms,
on the earth's surface. Mr. Renfrey gives us further statistics of great value respecting these
several plant zones of the globe, all of which fit so admirably into our theory of plant-distribution,
that we can hardly see how the most prejudiced mind can resist the force of its application.
Among the most important of these statistical facts are tables giving the comparative rain-falls
in the different plant zones of the old and new worlds, and the classes of vegetation peculiar
to each of them.

The Equatorial zone, for instance, is characterized by extreme luxuriance in growth, owing
no doubt to the great heat and abundant moisture therein, and exhibits a vegetation which is
peculiar to itself, and which could only thrive under the hygrometric, thermometric, telluric,
and other conditions of that extensive zone.

The Tropical zones (those north and south of the equator) are characterized by a more abundant
and diversified underwood, and, while retaining some of the equatorial forms, present fewer
parasites and less rapid and luxuriant growths. They contain many plants and trees which are
peculiar to their own limits, and these are generally the hardiest and most abundant. All equatorial
forms disappear in these zones, that is do not pass into the sub-tropical zones. And these
characteristics obtain in both the northern and southern tropical zones, as well as in the
mountain systems within the equatorial regions.

The Sub-tropical zones, while retaining some of the more marked forms and general features
of the tropical zones, such as palms, bananas, etc., exhibit the most striking characteristics
of their own, consisting of a greater abundance of forest trees, especially those having broad,
leathery and shining leaves, like the magnolias, the different species of laurels, and plants
of the myrtle family. The tropical forms all disappear in these zones, as the equatorial do
in the tropical zones.

The Warm Temperate zones exhibit the same disposition to retain some of the hardier and more
abundant sub-tropical forms that characterize the other zones, in respect to their adjoining
isotherms. But the trees and plants peculiar to this zone north, (and the same is no doubt
true of the corresponding zone south), are more numerous, and embrace a wider range of deciduous,
as well as evergreen growths. Evergreen shrubs, heaths, cistusses, and leguminous plants are
everywhere more abundant. The marked characteristic of these zones is that the trees, plants,
and arborescent grasses differ more widely in their general character, as well as run more
extensively into varieties.

The Cold Temperate zones retain many of the deciduous trees of the warm temperate, but with
less conspicuous blossoms, while a stronger tendency is shown toward social conifers, and the
trunks of the deciduous trees are more profusely overrun with mosses, lichens, etc. These zones
are also abundant in grasses.

The Sub-arctic zone north largely retains its hold upon the social conifers, giving place,
northward, on this continent, as well as in Europe and Asia, to birch and alder, alternating
with willows where the soil is sufficiently moist. Green pastures are still abundant, and showy
flowering herbs abound during the brief spring, summer, and autumn months.

The Arctic zone retains few of the sub-arctic forms and its vegetation generally corresponds
to what we call alpine shrubs, grasses, etc.

The North Polar zone shows few signs of vegetation and is thought to be entirely devoid of
shrubs. A few small herbacious perennials of the most extreme dwarf habit, with a few lichens
and mosses, constitute its entire vegetation.

There are some seeming exceptions to these general statements respecting plant-distribution,
but they are hardly exceptions when we consider the elevation at which any one species, as
the birches for instance, may appear, as they frequently do, in three several zones.

From these facts, gathered from the highest authorities, and well-attested on all hands, what
general conclusions, if any, are to be drawn? Before answering this inquiry, let us proceed
to state what conclusions have been drawn. In other words, they insist upon original plant-centres,
without definitely stating when or where they occurred, and that from these centres both plants
and animals have migrated to all parts of the globe where they now appear, even crossing the
equatorial zones where they could not live for a single day. This migration theory they attempt
to explain in a way that is altogether more ingenious than satisfactory.

The important exception to which we refer is that of Professor Agassiz, as reported by his
associate professor of Harvard University, Mr. Asa Gray, in his "Essays and Reviews Pertaining
to Darwinism." And this view is undoubtedly the correct one. At all events, it entirely harmonizes
with the facts of the biblical genesis, and obviates the necessity of accounting for the appearance
of the same genera and species of plants or animals in the southern as in the northern hemispheres;
in fact, their appearance in all parts of the globe, in corresponding isotherms, and under
similar conditions of moisture and soil-constituents.

Wherever the hygrometric, thermometric, telluric, and other conditions favor, the class of
vegetation indicated by the presence of these conditions makes its appearance, just as the
fire-weed makes its appearance in our warm temperate zone, not from the presence of seed, but
simply the presence of "conditions"--the provision of man harmonizing with the prevision of
nature. In the same way the "Japan clover" made its appearance, as Professor Thurber states,
"all over the southern states" during the late civil war, not from the migration of plants,
but the presence of natural conditions.[16]

The numerous facts we have already given, and many others that might be arrayed in advocacy
of our position, taken in connection with the general facts here presented in regard to plant-distribution,
all point directly to climatal and soil conditions as the real cause of dissemination, and
not to their migration from continent to continent, and across vast intervening seas and oceans,
as the theory of Professor Gray and others would require us to believe. Take the case of the
Schizoea pusilla of the New Jersey pine barrens, to which we have already referred, growing
in similar barrens in New Zealand, and how are we to account for their antipodal appearance
upon the globe? Professor Thurber refers to this plant as a "purely local fern" of New Jersey,
and says it was for a long time supposed to be peculiar to that state until it was ascertained
that it grew in New Zealand. Whether this plant "travelled" from New Zealand to New Jersey,
or journeyed in the opposite direction, none of these "specific-centre" gentlemen can well
inform us. Professor Agassiz would have said that it might have appeared, in numerous individuals,
in both localities at the same time, or at different times, as conditions favored; and this
would have been an exact scientific statement, no doubt, of the fact. Mr. Arthur Renfrey, and
those who accept his scientific formulA|, must insist that this most beautiful of all our ferns
was such a "favorite child of nature" that she condescended to create it twice "in time and
place," instead of only once. It is a poor rule, they may say, that has no exceptions in phenomenal
manifestation.

Professor Gray may insist that such a phenomenon as this requires belief in the supernatural,
and that migration by ocean-currents is the more rational theory of the two. But M. Alphonse
de Candolle--quite as high authority as we can quote--has come to the conclusion that marine
currents, and all other suggested means of distant transportation, "have played only a very
small part in the actual dispersion of species," even across narrow channels and the near arms
of seas. But why should the appearance of this fern at opposite points of the globe, with thousands
of miles of ocean and continent intervening, be any more supernatural than the presence of
Bacteria or TorulA|[17] in different organic infusions? If the vital units of these infusoriA|,
are present in experimental infusion, as Professor Bastian virtually admits, why may not the
vital germs or units of this Schizoea pusilla have made their appearance, in developmental
forms, both in New Zealand and New Jersey, at the same or different periods of time? If Professor
Gray regards the microscopical forms in organic infusions, or the statical forms in inorganic
solutions, as supernatural, or as above the powers of nature, then we have no exceptions to
make to his position. First, prove that these vital manifestations of nature are above the
powers with which she has been endowed, or was originally endowed and we will concede the question
of supernaturalness, and drop all exceptions to his line of argument. Whenever a dynamic law,
or a statical, is found to be uniformly operative under a given set of conditions, we had supposed
the operation not to be above the powers of nature, but in entire accord with them, and hence
not supernatural.

But let us see into what an inextricable labyrinth of difficulty we are led by this theory
of plant-migration from the equatorial to the sub-arctic zone, and vice-versa, and even beyond
the equator to the sub-antarctic zone, and still vice versa. Before proceeding to consider
the probable duration of the several geographical epochs, called glacial periods, on which
their theory of plant-migration depends, or considering the evidence touching these glacial
periods, we will state their position in regard to these possible migrations as briefly and
concisely as we know how. Mr. Darwin's solution of this problem is the generally accepted one
of the evolutionists, as well as most of the present scientific world. As the truth, or rather
the falsity, of his pet theory of evolution depended on the satisfactory solution of this vexed
problem, it became necessary for him to give his best and entire mental energies to the gigantic
task which was, by universal consent, assigned him. The reader shall see how admirably the
thermal equator is crossed by Mr. Darwin, with his vast swarms of flies, mosquitoes, insectivorous
and other plants, forest trees, anthropoid apes, and general menagerie of wild animals, such
as would gladden the heart of the "great American showman" beyond the most extravagant comparison.

The question, bear in mind, which he was specially called upon to solve, was how the temperate
forms north--those, for instance, of the warm and cold temperate zones--managed to cross the
thermal equator, and invade the corresponding zones in the southern hemisphere; just as though
there was any more necessity of determining this question than the opposite one, of how the
southern forms came to invade the northern hemisphere. We will give his solution of this problem
in his own language, that we may not be charged with misrepresentation.

He says, in speaking of the glacial periods: "As the cold became more and more intense, we
know that arctic forms invaded the temperate regions; and, from the facts just given, there
can hardly be a doubt that some of the more vigorous, dominant, and widest-spread temperate
forms invaded the equatorial lowlands. The inhabitants (flora and fauna) of these hot lowlands
would at the same time have migrated to the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the south;
for the southern hemisphere was at this period warmer. On the decline of the glacial period,
as both hemispheres gradually recovered their former temperatures, the northern forms living
on the lowlands under the equator would have been driven to their former homes or have been
destroyed, being replaced by the equatorial forms returning from the south. Some, however,
of the northern temperate forms would almost certainly have ascended any adjoining highland,
where, if sufficiently lofty, they would have long survived, like the arctic forms on the mountains
of Europe.

"In the regular course of events the southern hemisphere would, in its turn, be subject to
a severe glacial period, with the northern hemisphere rendered warmer; and then the southern
temperate forms would invade the equatorial lowlands. The northern forms which had before been
left on the mountains would now descend and mingle with the southern forms. These latter, when
the warmth returned, would return to their former homes, leaving some few species on the mountains,
and carrying southward with them some of the northern temperate forms, which had descended
from their mountain fastnesses. Thus we should have some few species identically the same in
the northern and southern temperate zones, and on the mountains of the intermediate tropical
regions."

We are sorry to spoil so ingenious a theory as this to account for plant-migration from the
temperate zones north to the corresponding zones south. But in spite of all the great names
which will frown down upon us in the attempt, we are obliged to demolish this altitudiness
structure, even at the risk of its tumbling about our own ears.

But first let us lay down a few undeniable propositions, on the strength of which this ingenious
and purely speculative theory of Mr. Darwin must rest:--

1. It is universally conceded by the scientific world that these glacial epochs, however many
of them there may have been in the past and however few there may be in the future, depend,
for their occurrence, upon the maxima of eccentricity in the earth's orbit about the sun.

2. The actual amount of heat which the earth annually receives from the sun is in no way affected
by the eccentricity of its orbit. It is a constant quantity, and only unequally distributed
on the earth's surface, being neither increased nor diminished, as our winters occur in aphelion
or perihelion.

3. The actual amount of ice-cap accumulated about the two poles of the earth, is also a constant
quantity. And to measure the severity of any glacial epoch, we have only to determine the exact
amount of ice (not altogether an impossible problem) about the two poles at any given time,
and then determine the effect of its entire transference from one pole to the other.

4. It is not probable that the present ice-cap of the south pole extends continuously and permanently
much farther north than 80A deg. or 81A deg.. Mt. Erebus, in Victoria Land, lies in about this
latitude, and it was only a few years since that the coast line of that island or continent
was traversed, by English exploring vessels, from Mt. Erebus to a point some ten or twelve
degrees further north. [18]

5. But if we estimate the southern cap as extending continuously to 75A deg., what would be
the effect of its transference at once to the ice-cap of the north pole? Would it extend it,
after assuming its proper glacial slope, below 60A deg., a point falling within the present
subarctic zone? The utmost limit to which Mr. Croll, in his great work on "Climate and Time,"
conceives it possible that it should extend, in any glacial epoch, is to 55A deg., or about
the northern boundary of England.

Now unless the astronomers and physicists are all at sea about the causes of glaciation, the
warm temperate zone can never be pushed any further south than the tropical zone, nor the cold
temperate any further than the sub-tropical. This would be the extreme limit. Mr. Croll says,
in speaking of these glacial periods; "It is, of course, absurd to suppose that an ice-cap
could ever actually reach down to the equator. It is probable that the last great ice-cap of
the glacial epoch nowhere reached half way to the equator. Our cap (that of Europe) must therefore,
terminate at a moderately high latitude." And if the gulf stream flows southward during the
glacial period north, as he supposes probable, the cap on this continent would probably terminate
at the same moderately high latitude. Assuming that Mr. Croll's estimate is the more probable
one, it would only push the cold temperate zone down to the line of the Gulf States; the warm
temperate, to the southern line of Mexico; the sub-tropical, to the Central American States,
and the tropical to the United States of Columbia, Venezuela, and Guiana.

Suppose, then, that some seven hundred thousand years ago, more or less, when the North Pole
had fully donned the earth's ice-cap, with all the isothermal and isochimenal changes thereby
effected, what must have been the line of march taken by our northern vegetal and animal forms
to escape the cataclysm of ice and snow then impending? Manifestly, they would have flocked,
first to the Gulf states, then to Mexico, and afterwards to the Central American states; but
none of them could ever have been crowded through the Isthmus of Panama, since at the height
of the last glaciation, that portion of the continent must have been the tropical barrier to
our northern forms, as it is now the equatorial barrier.

For the sake of the argument, however, we will suppose the northern ice-cap to have been even
more imperative in its demands than Mr. Croll has deemed possible, driving some of our warm
and cold temperate forms down into the lowlands of Columbia, Venezuela, etc., in the extreme
northern portions of South America. But how would these forms have managed, even then, to cross
the thermal equator and secure a permanent habitat in the present warm and cold temperate zones
of that continent? Manifestly, this question has never been practically solved, nor is it ever
likely to be in our day or generation. It is nevertheless susceptible of solution, as Mr. Darwin
thinks, by easy mental processes. We have only to take a bird's eye view of the situation,
and mentally follow these forms in their long geographical tramp from the northern to the southern
hemisphere.

They must have started, of course, some twenty thousand years or more before the earth reached
its last superior limit of eccentricity. At that distant epoch the sub-arctic breezes must
have been blowing pretty stiffly in our present temperate latitudes, and these forms would
have been constrained, in due time, to seek a more congenial isotherm. They must accordingly
have set out on their expedition, at about the period indicated, with the prospect of a long
and tedious journey before them. Some twenty thousand years must have transpired before they
reached the line of the present Gulf states, and it would have taken as many more years for
them to deploy to the right and successfully enter the Mexican states. In another twenty thousand
years or so they might have doubled Vera Cruz, and headed, in a southeasterly direction, for
the Central American states. The thermal equator would by this time have reached a point some
thirty degrees south of the geographical equator, while the northern ice-cap would have swept
down upon the traditional "hub of the universe," or some ten or twelve degrees in excess of
Mr. Croll's calculations.

To have accomplished this grand glaciatorial feat the North Pole must have donned some twenty
times the amount of ice now about both poles of the earth, and so changed the earth's centre
of gravity as to have inundated every foot of land on its habitable surface. But if this terrible
catastrophy had been avoided, and some of our extreme northern forms had forced their way through
the Isthmus into the lowlands of Columbia, they must have done so at their greatest possible
peril, even if they had reached the base of Old Mt. Tolima in advance of the thermal equator,
now fleeing in dismay before the southern Ice-monarch, with all his isochimenal hosts in mad
pursuit of their invaders. And if these adventurous northern forms had succeeded in ascending
Mt. Tolima, they could never have got down again, with the assistance of forty glaciations.

But we can imagine Mr. Darwin promptly snatching his pen to show the stupidity of these northern
forms in not climbing Popocatepetl or some other lofty mountain in Central America or Mexico,
on their retreat before the still advancing thermal equator. But how this would have helped
them to cross the geographical equator, we fail to see. When Mr. Darwin, and the eminent corps
of geologists and physicists accepting his solution of this "vexed question," can make a "warm
term" south succeed a "cold term" north, we shall have no difficulty in solving the problem
ourself. But, unfortunately, the two terms--the cold one north and the warm one south--are
simultaneous in occurrence, and the same causes which forced these northern invaders into the
tropics, when they followed after the thermal equator, would have driven them ignominously
back again before it. The climbing of mountains would only have prolonged their disaster. For
after the glaciation north comes the glaciation south, and unless our cold temperate zone were
pushed down beyond the geographical equator, none of its living forms could ever have reached
the corresponding zone in the southern hemisphere.

But as this "migration theory" is one of paramount importance to modern science, and especially
to "Darwinism," [19] distinctively so called, let us, at the risk of repetition and tediousness,
propose a scientific expedition for the better solution of this problem. To do this, we propose
to cut loose from our stupid predecessors, the plants and animals, and invite Mr. Darwin and
some of his more distinguished European contemporaries, not omitting Professors Gray, Winchell,
Yeomans, and some few other American admirers of his, to accompany us on a fresh expedition
from the warm and cold temperate zones north to the corresponding zones south, purely in the
interest of science. To make it certain that the time fixed upon for this "expedition" to start,
will not escape their attention, we will state what many of them already well know, that the
present eccentricity of the earth's orbit is very low, being only 0.0168, and that, in the
year of our Lord 851,800, it will reach its next superior limit, with a few intervening oscillations
of such minimum value as to render it hardly worth our while to start before that time.

We shall be obliged, of course to invite our distinguished European party to join us on this
side of the Atlantic, as their own narrow and contracted continent furnishes no proper field
for determining the problem in question. We shall insist upon one condition only: "That they
shall never leave the warm temperate zone in which we shall set out on our expedition, except
to pass halfway into an adjoining zone as is the habit, at times, with plants and animals."
This condition will have to be rigidly observed, otherwise our expedition would be of no scientific
value to future generations. As we shall have plenty of time to provide the necessary outfit,
we will appoint Mr. Darwin purveyor-general of the party, and hold him responsible for any
misadventure.

We will arrange for the expedition to start in the early autumn of the year of our Lord 831,800,
or about twenty thousand years before the earth shall reach its next superior limit of eccentricity,--all
of us eager, of course, to brave the climatic vicissitudes of the journey, and to solve the
"great problem of the ages," which is, to determine how the gigantic elephantoids of the Eocene
period managed to cross the thermal equator, and pass into the present arctic regions of our globe.

As "the king never dies," so the old southern Ice-monarch will be succeeded by the young northern
one, at about the period named. We shall then have a decided advantage over our predecessors,
the plants and animals, in their journey southward, since we shall know the exact route they
took, and need only follow it. Presumably they had no such information, nor had they either
chart or compass to guide them,--a circumstance which Mr. Darwin has not sufficiently taken
into account in predicating intelligence of his favorite pedestrians. Besides, these vegetal
and animal forms had one difficulty to encounter which we shall not experience. With all the
northern forms driven down into the Central American states, they must have been sadly crowded
for room, especially near the Isthmus. The social conifers must have monopolized all the more
favored sites on the mountain sides and tops, while the humbler denizens of the forest must
have contented themselves with still more limited quarters. The more impatient animals, for
lack of necessary forage, must have crowded through the Isthmus only to be driven back by the
tropical heats to their proper isotherms.

But our warm temperate zone is now moving southward, and our scientific expedition is moving
with it. The northern Ice-monarch has resumed absolute sway, and our aphelion distance from
the sun has increased some tens millions of miles. We have, in the mean time, moved down to
the line of the Gulf states, and are deploying to the right in order to make a triumphant entry
into Mexico. Mr. Darwin is daily consulting the isochimenals, and is confident that our northern
ice-cap will equal Mr. Croll's highest expectations. The news finally reaches us that the Gulf
stream has turned its course southward, and is now pouring its immense treasures of heat into
the South Atlantic, if not turning the African "horn" and washing the far-off Australian coast.
This fact greatly increases the enthusiasm of our European party, and they hasten forward into
the sub-tropical zone, almost "violating conditions" in their haste to enter the tropics.

At length, we crowd the narrow passages of the Isthmus, and the glory of a warm temperate climate
bursts upon our view in the Columbian states, of South America. The expedition promises to
be an entire success. At least, Mr. Darwin thinks so, and he is now the Sir Oracle of our party.
We deliberately enter the lowlands of Columbia, and make ready to ascend the sub-tropical mountains--those
formerly equatorial--where the "great scientific problem of the ages" is to be demonstrated.
But we are measuring time by almost Sirius distances, and vast geologic periods sweep by without
apparent record. The northern ice-cap has been a prodigious one, crowding us nearly down to
the geographical equator, with the advantage we have of appropriating some five and half degrees
of the sub-tropical zone.

But the year Anno Domini 851,800 finally rolls round, and the maximum of the earth's ice-cap
is reached. Old Mt. Tolima looms up in the distance, and we soon ascertain that its height
is sufficient for all scientific purposes. Its summit displays a glittering ice-cap, and we
are certain to find the proper isotherm by climbing its umbrageous sides. We accordingly make
haste to reach its base, and get there not a minute too soon; for the young southern Ice-monarch
has stolen a march on the thermal equator, and is driving it irresistibly back to its old quarters.
His march northward is a continuous triumph and ovation up to 55A deg., and the heart of Patagonia
is made glad by his near approach. True, the white gates of commerce are closed about the Horn;
but that is no concern of these wild Patagonians. The aggressive Britton is driven out of New
Zealand, and that is another source of joy to the savage breast. Tasmania would extend a gladder
welcome than all to the Ice-crowned monarch, but alas, not a drop of Tasmanian blood runs in
human veins! Cape Good Hope has now a sub-arctic climate, and the heart of the wild Kaffir
and Zulu rejoices that the sceptre of "perfidious Albion" is broken.

The thermal equator at length reaches the base of Mt. Tolima, and hastens northward to the
Isthmus, and thence to Hondurus and New Guatemala, where, by sheer force of exhaustion, it
comes to a halt.

But, as the equatorial zone extends fifteen degrees both ways from the thermal equator, its
southern limit now rests on the geographical equator, and accordingly encircles the base of
our "mount of refuge." We are now up this mountain some sixteen thousand feet above the equatorial
lowlands, with the sub-tropical, tropical, and equatorial zones between us and the possibility
of our further migration southward, without violating the express conditions imposed at the
outset of our expedition.

The fact soon stares us in the face that we have been no more successful, in our efforts to
cross the thermal equator and pass into high southern latitudes, than the stupid plants and
animals before us; and Mr Darwin's faith in high mountains springing from equatorial lowlands,
disappears in jest and derision as we all good-humoredly agree "to break conditions," and find
our way back to the centres of activity and trade in the Old and New Worlds, leaving the great
scientific problem of the ages to solve itself as best it may. We accordingly descend from
our mountain fastness, hasten to the coast, and take passage by steamer to Manhattan, the great
commercial metropolis of the world. Here we find that the barometer of exchange was long ago
taken down in London and hung up in New York. The Old Antiquarian Society rooms are the first
object of interest sought by us. On making our way thither we look for a copy of the Herald,
of the date of our departure, in which we find an account of the scientific expedition fitted
out by us, facetiously termed "The Great Wild-Goose Chase after the Thermal Equator"--presenting
one of the most humorous bits of sensational pleasantry ever given to the American public.

But an apology is due the staider reader for the seeming levity of this narrative adventure.
The exposition of Mr. Darwin, though widely accepted on both sides of the Atlantic by the scientific
world, has seemed to us too trivial for serious reply. If we have leaped over vast periods
of time, it makes no difference with the argument. So long as the thermal equator, or more
properly the equatorial zone, or any part of it, lies between the warm or cold temperate forms,
whether plants or animals, and their point of destination in the southern hemisphere, they
can never migrate thither, any more than the right whale of the arctic seas can swim the equatorial
oceans. Nothing is gained by going out of the way to climb mountains, except to hopelessly
retard the return of both plants and animals to their native zones. If we have not demonstrated
this fact to the reader's fullest comprehension, it will be useless for him ever to write a
Q.E.D. at the end of any proposition.

It is true that some eminent astronomers and physicists hesitate to accept the theory that
these glacial epochs are due to the eccentricity of the earth's orbit. But the argument favoring
it is well fortified and ably advanced, and if we add to the astronomical considerations involved,
the physical proofs of a change in the earth's centre of gravity, caused by the excessive accumulation
of ice about either pole, and the probable shifting of the Gulf stream to a southerly direction
during the glacial period north, it is difficult to resist the conviction that the real cause
of glaciation has been suggested in this theory. With all the ice now accumulated about the
south pole transferred to the north pole, it would make an ice-cap of over thirty miles in
thickness at the pole, and one sloping in all directions southward to about 60A deg.. This
accumulation, it is claimed, would so change the earth's centre of gravity as to cause all
the equatorial warm waters to flow southward instead of northward, as they now do.

This would certainly seem to be a most wonderful provision of nature, as well as one strongly
calculated to impress the human mind with the belief that an Infinite Prevision lies behind
all possible provision, whether witnessed in the heavens or in the earth, in astronomical or
physical phenomena. Everywhere we see infinite perfection, combined with infinite beneficence,
in the adaptation of means to ends. Nothing runs to waste--all things are conserved for use.

But in all the outspoken grandeur of the universe, there is nothing so grand, in exhibition
at least, as the simple faith of a child, that "He who watereth the hills from his chambers,"
and "causeth the day-spring to know his place," will watch over the trustful little sleeper
during the darkness and silence of the night.

Chapter VI.

The Distribution and Premanence of Species. But why astonishing? Had our distinguished botanical
professors, in this country and in Europe, thoroughly informed themselves as to the climatic
conditions, the general physical features, geographical characteristics, soil-constituents,
and other conditional incidences of this Asiatic region, in the light of all the physiological
facts before them, the circumstance of this great similarity of flora would have been anything
but astonishing. Indeed, the astonishment, if any, would have been expressed at the want of
similarity, had it been found to exist.

Ever since 1862, these distinguished professors have had the great plant-charts of Mr. Arthur
Renfrey before them, with the warm temperate zone north accurately laid down in its proper
isotherms, as well as the different classes of vegetation peculiar to the two regions referred
to, and some general conclusions of value to science might have been drawn therefrom. Besides,
the fact of these similar antipodal flora was well known to many of them before this chart
was issued. They also knew that all along the higher mountain ranges of this country, as well
as in Europe, the same alpine flora was to be found under the same or similar alpine conditions.
From Mt. St. Elias, in Alaska, to the Central American States, and thence, through the Isthmus,
to the southern extremity of the Andes in South Patagonia, there is one unbroken line of alpine
vegetation pressing the sides or summits of the loftier mountain ranges, at altitudes correspondingly
varying with the latitudes in which they occur. And the same is true of the Alps in Europe
and the Himalaya ranges in Asia, if not of all the mountain systems of the globe.

These, and hundreds of other equally suggestive facts, all pointing to geographical, climatic,
and other influencing conditions, as the real objective points of inquiry, have been constantly
before our botanical friends; and yet they have been content with Mr. Darwin's theory of climbing
mountains to cross the geographical equator, under the impression that an enormous ice-cap,
or rather prodigious "ice-ulster," would ultimately drift them into the southern hemisphere,
or enable them to "coast" their way thither with the greatest imaginable ease. But why insist
upon the migration of plants growing in the lowlands and about the bases and sides of mountains,
and not suggest some means of transport for the equally beautiful flora, known as "alpine,"
on the mountain summits of the earth? These are distributed, as we have before shown, over
all our mountain systems, in all latitudes and in all parts of the globe, as well as in the
higher regions of vegetation as we approach the north pole. Surely, the delicate little harebells
of these alpine regions should attract some interest, if not sympathy, from those who are constantly
hunting up means of transport for the more hardy and robust plants that seem able to take care
of themselves almost anywhere.

When the next great ice-cap shall sweep down from the north pole upon these beautiful alpine
flowers they will have to travel somewhere. There is manifestly as much necessity for them
to get out of the way as for the rest of the flora. How will they manage to get down the mountains
into the lowlands, and traverse uncongenial plains and deserts, to find other and far-distant
alpine homes? They can never, of course, get very far away from the regions skirted by eternal
frost, for their cup of joy must be chaliced by the snow-flake, or their beautiful life is
soon ended. But if all our alpine flora have traveled from one evolutional centre, or have
been "created but once in time and place," how have they managed to cross the thermal equator
and spread themselves out over all the alpine regions of the globe? We call upon Mr. Darwin
and Professor Gray to rise and explain. Not that we want any explanation, but that their theory
of plant-migration stands sadly in need of one.

The theory which the Bible genesis suggests to us is fully adequate to the explanation wanted.
It explains not only why these alpine flora appear where they do, but why they cannot appear
anywhere else. It also explains all the physiological facts to which we have referred in the
foregoing chapters. Wherever the necessary alpine conditions exist the earth responds to the
divine command, and the beautiful little alpine harebell is cradled into life, and rejoices
in the bright embroidery it wears. And so, wherever streams are turned aside to flow through
new meads and sheltered woods, or over broken and swaly places where cowslips never grew before,
hardly a year will pass before this "wan flower" will hang therein "its pensive head," while
all along the line of the stream the black alder will make its appearance in the lowlands,
no matter how far its current may be diverted from its original channel, or how distant the
supply of natural seeds. For nature's sternest painter can only delineate her as "instinct
with music and the vital spark."

If our botanical professors would come forth into the true light of nature, they should accept
the position of pupil to her, and not assert that of teacher. So long as they continue to peep
and botanize upon her grave, or over ancient mounds and Hadrianic tumuli, they will never find
out the cunning of her processes, much less the means she employs to accomplish her perfected
ends. This modern idolatry of "hypotheses," with our chronic neglect of what nature does, is
the great scientific stumbling-block of the age in which we live. Our botanists all agree that
certain plants and trees disappear--hopelessly die out--from the absence of "necessary conditions;"
when will they come to recognize the reverse of this undeniable proposition, and agree that
the presence of necessary conditions may cause the same plants and trees to make their appearance,
that is, spring into life in obedience to some great primal law, as unerringly obeyed by nature
as the attractive force of the universe itself?

For nearly half a century the fact has been known that the geographical distribution of the
European flora, and especially that of the British Islands, was referable to latitude, elevation,
and climatic conditions. As early as 1835, Mr. Hewett Watson, a well-known botanist of that
day, in his published "Remarks on the Geographical Distribution of Plants, in connection with
Latitude, Elevation, and Climate," drew the attention of the botanical world to this remarkable
feature of plant distribution; while the late Professor Edward Forbes pursued the same line
of thought in his attempt to show how geographical changes had affected plant areas in Great
Britain as far back as the last glacial drift. And yet all our botanical writers have been
steadily persisting on immense plant-migrations to account for their geographical distribution,
and have given us maps without number to show how the vegetal hosts have traversed vast continents,
swam multitudinous seas, braved the fiery equator, and scaled the summits of the loftiest Andes.
In the mean time, no botanist of any distinguished note, except M. De Candolle, has confidently
ventured to question this migration theory, so imposing and formidable has been the array of
names which have frowned down, like so many gigantic ghauts, upon the audacious questioner.

But the present actual state of knowledge on this subject forbids us any longer to accept theories
for facts, premises for conclusions, or fallacious reasoning for legitimate induction. Truth
and daylight never meet in a corner, and no one, in our day, need go to the bottom of a well
in search of either. We are forever stumbling over the truth without knowing it, because our
old traditional beliefs, like so many superannuated grasshoppers, are constantly springing
up in our path and diverting our attention from her. There are physiological facts enough daily
obtruding themselves upon our attention, if we would but notice them, in the case of wayside
plants, garden and household weeds, and the more aggressive vegetation of worn out pasture-lands,
to satisfy us of the truth of our theory, were it not for the swarms of these old traditional
grasshoppers continually rising into the air before us, and shutting out the truth as it is
in nature. And the worst feature about this whole business is, that we have come to regard
these multitudinous insects as a delight instead of a burden.

But it is hardly necessary to pursue this subject further. We have shown, or shall show in
the succeeding pages, that all crystalline forms come from necessary or favoring statical conditions;
that all infusorial forms come in the same way, only their conditions may be said to be dynamical
rather than statical; that all mycological forms (fungi) are dependent, for their primary manifestation,
on conditions of moisture and decay; that all plant-life, from the lowest cryptogam to the
lordliest conifer, is dependent on some similar incidence of conditions; that the mastodon,
now only known by his fossil remains, must have wallowed forth from his "necessary mire" (plasmic
conditions) in the Eocene period; and that all animal life must have come from some underlying
law of primordial conditions, as impressed upon matter, in harmony with the "Divine Intendment"
from the beginning; and that this law is still operative in the production of new forms of
life whenever and wherever the same may appear. We shall also show that all living organisms,
such as seeds, fungus-spores, morphological cells, etc., perish at a temperature of about 100A
deg. C., and that Bacteria, TorulA|, and other infusorial forms, making their appearance in
super-heated flasks, originate not from morphological cells, plastide particles, bioplasts,
or any other vital organism, but from indestructible vital units, which are everywhere present
in the organic matter of our globe, and ready to burgeon forth into life whenever the necessary
vital conditions exist, and the proper incidences of environment occur.

We have also shown that the earth still obeys the divine command to bring forth, or--if objection
be made to this form of statement as unscientific--still obeys some inexorable underlying law
tantamount to such command, and can no more help "bringing forth," when the necessary telluric
conditions favor, than the cold can help coming out of the north, or the clouds dropping rain,
when the necessary meteorological conditions occur. Give the future American botanist the physical
geography of a country--its average rain-fall, temperature, etc., and the plant zone in which
it lies, and, whether explored or unexplored, he will give us the general character of its
vegetation, and name most of the plants and trees peculiar to its soil. And he will do this,
not because he has any faith in the present theories of plant-migration, nor in the necessary
distribution of seeds, but because he will study his favorite science with reference to latitude,
elevation, climate, physical characteristics, rain-fall, soil-constituents, and other influencing
conditions of plant-life.

But we will now proceed to consider the duration of vegetable species, for the purpose of showing
that the evolutional changes they are undergoing, if any, must cover infinitely vaster periods
of time than we have any data for determining, to say nothing of the unverified theories the
evolutionists have been spinning for us.

Our geologic and paleontologic records are becoming richer in materials, more interesting in
details, and more authentic in character, every year. We are turning back page after page of
these lithographic records, only to find the domain of science widened and deepened in interest
as we advance, or as our rocks are being excavated, our mountains tunneled, our vast mines
explored, and the beds of our rivers and arms of seas thoroughfared and traversed by the iron
rail. Meanwhile, science exhibits signs of becoming less devoted to new-fangled theories, more
exacting in her demands upon her votaries, and more eager to extend the domain of facts as
the only true basis on which to rest her claims for future recognition. She is less dogmatic
to-day than she was a year ago, and is likely to become less so a year hence than now. And
this is largely due to her methods of research and inquiry. She is now everywhere sending out
her hardier and more enthusiastic sons into new fields of exploration, to return laden with
ampler materials to build, and richer treasures to adorn, a temple worthy of her name. In the
field of the fossilized fauna and flora, these treasures are of the highest value and interest,
all indicating not only wide areas of distribution, but immense periods of time, in which species
have existed without any greater changes in character than the necessary shadings into varieties
would seem to require. For nature everywhere characterizes her methods of production and reproduction
by a loving tendency to diversify and variously adorn her species, as if to express the infinite
conceptions of that power above her, which "spake and it was done, which commanded and it was
brought forth."

From the fossilized plants of Atanekerdluk--a flora rich in species and wonderfully preserved
in type--and the Miocene flora of Spitzenburg, to the southernmost limits of vegetation on
the globe, science has reached out her hands for materials, and gathered them with as much
success as avidity. And all scientific botanists agree in referring these fossilized forms
from the high northern latitudes, to the Miocene period--one so remote that we can form no
adequate conception of it, except as time may be measured by geologic periods. And these materials
show that varieties of the Sequoia, the tulip-tree, oaks, beeches, walnuts, firs, poplars,
hazelnuts, etc., etc., all flourished in these sub-arctic regions during the far-distant period
we have named. Many of them must have grown on the spot where their trunks are now to be found,
as their roots remain undisturbed in the soil, as well as at a time when these regions enjoyed
a warm or cold temperate climate. Many of these fossilized and carbonized forms are identical
with the living species of to-day, conclusively showing that neither natural variation, nor
any secondary causes, have worked out any changes capable of being scientifically expressed
in genetic value.

There is also abundant evidence to show that many of the present tropical forms flourished
in central and southern Europe as far back as the warm inter-glacial epoch in the Eocene period.
And if these inter-glacial periods occurred at the lowest minimum limits of eccentricity in
the earth's orbit, as calculated by Leverrier's formulA|, we can have no conception whatever
of the length of time actually intervening the period named and our present era. Mr. Croll
has given us the limits of highest glaciation covering the last three million years, and shows
that there have been but two periods of superior eccentricity in that time, and can be only
one in the next million years, with but two or three intervening maxima and minima that may,
or may not have been, of any special value. It is true that he assigns importance to these
maxima, as affecting possible glaciations, but there are other eminent astronomers and physicists
who differ from him, and really attach little or no importance to these of any other intervening
periods of eccentricity. If Mr. Croll is correct in his theory and estimates, we must separate
these superior glacial epochs by an interval of not less than one million seven hundred thousand
years; and nearly three of these periods must have intervened since some of the present tropical
forms flourished in Europe. And if these forms have undergone no specific change in all this
time, how many years will it require to work out even one of Mr. Darwin's many evolutional changes?

The kinship between some of these arctic and sub-arctic fossilized flora and the living forms
of to-day, is so near that they cannot be distinguished by a single difference. This is true
of some of the varieties of the Sequoia family, the oaks, beeches, firs, hazelnuts, etc., while
others are so nearly identical that it would be difficult to classify them as separate varieties.
At all events, if they cannot be placed in the list of identical species, they cannot be ruled
out of representative types. But why should our speculative botanists insist upon these "evolutional
changes" in plant-life--these "derivative forms" of which they are constantly speaking? Paleontological
botany has given us the very highest antiquity of species, and the most that can be claimed
is that nature was just as prolific of diversified forms millions of years ago as now. Because
we, by forcing nature into unnatural, if not repugnant, alliances, can produce

            --"Streak'd gillyflowers,
  Which some call nature's bastards."

it is no evidence that she commits any such offence against herself. Her alliances are all
loving ones. She indulges in no forced methods of propagation. If she produced the Sequoia
gigantea, or the great redwood tree of our California Sierra, as far back as the Crustaceous
period, she has propagated it ever since according to her own loving methods, and it is idle
to talk of the Sequoia Langsdorfii as being the original ancestor of this tree, or any other
distinguished branch of the sequoias. How much more rational the suggestion of Professor Agassiz
that these trees--the entire family of sequoias--were quite as numerous in individual varieties
at first as now, and that the fruit of the one can never bear the fruit of the other.

Again, take the still hardier and more numerous branches of the Quercus or oak family. M. De
Candolle has expended a vast deal of ingenuity to show that the various members of this old
and ancestrally-knotty family have all descended from two or three of the hardier varieties.
He arrives at this conclusion from a geographical survey of what he would call the "whole field
of distribution," and "the probable historical connection between these congeneric species."
But science should deal with as few probabilities as possible, especially where experience
furnishes no guide to certainty, and only the remotest clue to likelihood. We should never
predicate probabilities except on some degree of actual evidence, or some likelihood of occurrence,
falling within the limits, analogically or otherwise, of human observation and experience.
In no other way can we determine whether an event is probable or not. But here we have not
so much as a probable experience to guide us. Geographical distribution in the past is hardly
a safe criterion to go by, because we can never be absolutely certain that we have the requisite
data on which to form a determinate judgment. The Quercus robur may furnish the maximum test
to-day, but a few concealed pockets of nature may bring some other variety of the congeneric
species to the front to-morrow, requiring M. De Candolle to correct his classification. There
are no less than twenty-eight varieties of this one species of oak, all of them conceded to
be spontaneous in origin, and it has been on the earth quite as long as the more stately tribe
of Sequoias. Besides, not more than one twenty-thousandth part of the earth's surface has been
dug over to determine the extent to which any one of its varieties has flourished in the past.

