The position of America in this war is so clearly avowed that no man can be excused for mistaking
it. She seeks no material profit or aggrandizement of any kind. She is fighting for no advantage
or selfish object of her own, but for the liberation of peoples everywhere from the aggressions
of autocratic force. The ruling classes in Germany have begun of late to profess a like liberality
and justice of purpose, but only to preserve the power they have set up in Germany and the
selfish advantages which they have wrongly gained for themselves and their private projects
of power all the way from Berlin to Bagdad and beyond. Government after Government has, by
their influence, without open conquest of its territory, been linked together in a net of intrigue
directed against nothing less than the peace and liberty of the world. The meshes of that intrigue
must be broken, but cannot be broken unless wrongs already done are undone; and adequate measures
must be taken to prevent it from ever again being rewoven or repaired.

Of course the Imperial German Government and those whom it is using for their own undoing are
seeking to obtain pledges that the war will end in the restoration of the status quo ante.
It was the status quo ante out of which this iniquitous war issued forth, the power of the
Imperial German Government within the empire and its widespread domination and influence outside
of that empire. That status must be altered in such fashion as to prevent any such hideous
thing from ever happening again.

THE PRINCIPLES THAT ARE INVOLVED

We are fighting for the liberty, self-government and the undictated development of all peoples,
and every feature of the settlement that concludes this war must be conceived and executed
for that purpose. Wrongs must first be righted and then adequate safeguards must be created
to prevent their being committed again. We ought not to consider remedies merely because they
have a pleasing and sonorous sound. Practical questions can be settled only by practical means.
Phrases will not accomplish the result. Effective readjustments will; and whatever readjustments
are necessary must be made.

But they must follow a principle, and that principle is plain:

No people must be forced under sovereignty under which it does not wish to live.

No territory must change hands except for the purpose of securing those who inhabit it a fair
chance of life and liberty.

No indemnities must be insisted on except those that constitute payment for manifest wrongs done.

No readjustments of power must be made except such as will tend to secure the future peace
of the world and the future welfare and happiness of its peoples.

And then the free peoples of the world must draw together in some common covenant, some genuine
and practical co-operation, that will in effect combine their force to secure peace and justice
in the dealings of nations with one another. The brotherhood of mankind must no longer be a
fair but empty phrase; it must be given a structure of force and reality. The nations must
realize their common life and effect a workable partnership to secure that life against the
aggressions of autocratic and self-pleasing power.

For these things we can afford to pour out blood and treasure. For these are the things we
have always professed to desire, and unless we pour out blood and treasure now and succeed,
we may never be able to unite or show conquering force again in the great cause of human liberty.
The day has come to conquer or submit. If the forces of autocracy can divide us, they will
overcome us; if we stand together, victory is certain and the liberty which victory will secure.

We can afford, then, to be generous, but we cannot afford then or now to be weak or omit any
single guarantee of justice and security.

X

FLAG-DAY ADDRESS

(June 14, 1917)

