Everywhere we saw flocks of sheep and herds of cattle grazing among the bushes--always a sign
that we should find a waggon or two with tents close to them, under the nearest trees. Sometimes,
near a drift or a good place to uitspan, quite a small lager had been formed of the trek Boers,
or, rather, of their wives, for the husbands and sons of many had gone to the war. The Boers
who fled with their cattle in that way we called 'Bush-lancers.' We came up with De la Rey's
lager near the Elands River, and later on made the acquaintance of Captain Kirsten's scouts,
to whom we offered our services. In those days it was very pleasant to belong to the reconnoitring
corps. When we went to reconnoitre our horses got plenty of forage on the farms, and as we
were few in number and always ahead of the lager, there were always eggs, bread, and milk to
be had. We had enough to do, also, as we had to keep a sharp look-out, and we were in constant
danger, but not at all afraid of the patrols of khakies, which, being small in number and without
their guns, were pretty harmless. We advanced almost parallel to the Magalies Mountains, that
stretch from Pretoria to Rustenburg, until we came to the neighbourhood of Selikatsnek. Unless
one was well acquainted with the highways and byways of that part of the country, one was in
constant danger of losing the way; it is a long stretch of bush, consisting of the well-known
thorn-bushes of the Hoogeveld, for a distance of about ten miles deep. The principal passes
of the Magalies Mountains were occupied by the enemy--Wonderboompoort, Hornsnek, Selikatsnek,
Commandonek, Olifantsnek. General de la Rey had made up his mind to take Selikatsnek, and on
July 11 he succeeded, by his strong will and military talent.

While we were reconnoitring with Captain Kirsten's party we got the news that De la Rey had
attacked Selikatsnek--about an hour's ride from where we were--and that the battle was still
going on. We all rode to the scene of action, but my brother and I, with a few other men, remained
behind to wait for Captain Kirsten, who was absent at the time. As soon as he arrived we rode
off, and arrived at Selikatsnek at about nine o'clock. Our burghers had already taken two of
the enemy's guns.

Selikatsnek (or Moselikatsnek) is a narrow opening in the Magalies Mountains, with high shoulders
on either side, that slope gradually to a white kopje in the centre. If an attacking party
once occupies the shoulders, it can easily keep the enemy on the kopje or on the two slopes.
When we arrived our burghers already occupied the principal positions--both shoulders and the
smaller positions to the front of the kopje. The enemy had been obliged to draw in their clipped
wings, and to concentrate on and in the neighbourhood of the white kopje.

But as the shoulders of the pass were very steep on the other side, our men could not surround
the enemy or attack them in the rear; and as there was not sufficient cover for them to go
down the slope without great loss, in order to drive the enemy by force from their positions,
the burghers remained 'rock-fast' in their positions, and made no progress at all. Thus, the
enemy would either get reinforcements from Pretoria or escape when it got dark. Both our flanks
kept up a constant fire on the slopes, and on the white kopje, but the shoulders were too high
for a proper aim, and the khakies lay fast behind the boulders and in the clefts of the rocks.

Captain Kirsten, with about ten men, was ordered by General Coetzee to hold a position to the
right of the white kopje, and prevent the enemy from taking it. This position consisted of
a small rise, from which we could fire at the kopje with a sight of 550 paces. To the right
of this rise, at a distance of 80 paces, was a small kloof overgrown with bushes, and on the
other side of the kloof ran a reef of rocks in the direction of the white kopje. Here some
of the burghers had before our arrival forced eleven khakies to surrender, but they had not
succeeded in occupying the position, as some khakies had remained in the kloof, and had shouted
to them that they would not surrender. We were therefore warned against that kloof. But while
the others were shooting at the enemy on the white kopje, one of our men went by himself to
see if there really were any khakies left there. He kept under cover wherever he could--behind
the rocks and behind the walls of an old kraal--and came close up to the kloof without being
fired at. On the other side, at a distance of fifty paces, he heard a wounded man groaning
and begging for water; but, as he was alone, he did not venture to cross the kloof. He returned
to his comrades, but they would pay no attention to his request to cross, as they thought the
enemy were only waiting until more men came under fire before they began firing.

We continued shooting at the white kopje, from which the enemy were firing at us. The Captain
had a good telescope, through which he could distinctly see the faces of the enemy on the kopje.
If a khaki showed himself from behind a rock, the Captain pointed him out to one of our marksmen,
Alec Boshoff, who studied the position through the telescope, and took such good aim that the
Captain declared he could see the blood on the wounded man's face.

The burgher who had gone to the kloof tried to persuade the rest to cross with him to the other
side, as he was sure the enemy were not inclined to make any resistance there. At length, after
twelve, he went with two others to the opposite side, but first told a few of the best marksmen
to keep an eye on the reef. They crossed the kloof very cautiously. It was dangerous work,
as a shot might come at any moment from behind one of the numerous shrubs or boulders. But
they did not advance in an unbroken line. Every time they sought cover behind a rock, from
which they watched to see whether the enemy would make their appearance. They did not all three
advance at the same time, either, but first one and then the other. Whenever they had advanced
a few steps, they stopped to ask the wounded man, who lay groaning there, whether he was alone.
When they reached him they put some grass under his head, and gave him some brandy from a flask
that they always carried with them. The poor man lay in a pool of blood on a rock under some
shrubs. He had been shot through the leg. His name was Lieutenant Pilkington.

The wounded man took hold of the hands of one of the burghers and begged him to stay with him.
He, however, considered it his duty to advance, but first assured the poor man that the burghers
who were following could also speak English, and would look after him. Most of our men followed
the three. The rocks and boulders on the reef that we were climbing afforded us splendid cover
from the enemy on the white kopje.

To our left we found some more wounded. My brother took charge of one with a ghastly wound
in his head. We made some prisoners there, who were too cowardly to defend themselves. A few
of our comrades took them down. We could notice by the guns and rugs that were lying about
that the enemy had fled in a panic, or else we should never have ventured to do what we did
later on.

