It is a striking fact that people in the days of Washington travelled not a whit more rapidly
than people in the days of Moses or of Homer. The chariot-rider of the Olympic games attained
a speed which was, perhaps, never equalled in Europe or America until the first railway- train
sped between Liverpool and Manchester, in 1830. In 1776, the Americans were still mainly confined
to the original occupations of the early colonists, farming, trade, hunting, and fishing. Manufactories
there were not as yet; Lawrence and Lowell. Pittsburg, and the great industrial New York towns,
were still in the womb of the future. In almost every household throughout the land the old-fashioned
spinning- wheel was humming under the pressure of matronly and maidenly feet, by which the
homespun garments of the time were made. While the less well- to-do and laboring classes were
content with clothing spun and knitted at their own firesides, the wealthier people arrayed
themselves with far more ostentation than they do at this day. Silks and satins came hither
by ship-loads from France to supply the luxury of costume which was then in vogue. The difference
between the costumes of that day and of this was especially marked in the attire of gentlemen.
Now there is much greater plainness and uniformity. When Washington held his levees, he was
generally dressed "in black velvet, with white or pearl-colored waistcoat, yellow gloves, and
silver knee and shoe-buckles." "His hair was powdered and gathered in a silk bag behind. He
carried a cocked hat in his hand, and wore a long sword with a scabbard of polished white leather."
The display of dress was not less marked in other officials, and in men of high social rank.
The judges of the Supreme Court wore scarlet robes faced with velvet. "If a gentleman went
abroad, he appeared in his wig, white stock, white satin embroidered vest, black satin small-clothes,
with white silk stockings, and a fine broadcloth or velvet coat; if at home, a velvet cap,
sometimes with a fine linen one under it, took the place of the wig; while a gown, frequently
of colored damask lined with silk, was substituted for the coat, and the feet were covered
with leather slippers of some fancy color." All men shaved their beards clean; a man who appeared
in the streets wearing hair on any part of his face was stared at, and very likely laughed at.

[Sidenote: Old-time Attire.]

[Sidenote: Wigs and Queues.]

All the great gentlemen wore wigs; most of the country farmers contented themselves with tying
their hair in a queue behind, sprinkling it with powder when they went to church on a Sunday.
As for the ladies, those in the best society were even more elaborate in their toilets than
those of to-day. On the dressing of the hair, especially, much time and money were spent. It
was raised high upon the head and powdered thick; "the hair dressers," says Higginson, "were
kept so busy on the day of any fashionable entertainment, that ladies sometimes had to employ
their services at four or five in the morning, and had to sit upright all the rest of the day,
in order to avoid disturbing the head-dress."

[Sidenote: Amusements.]

Although our ancestors did not possess the variety of amusements which now exists, their life
was far from a humdrum one. Theatres were tabooed, but were beginning to hold their ground
here and there, though not, we may be sure, in New England. There were, however, private theatricals
and charades, which became at one period very much in vogue in the aristocratic houses of New
York and Philadelphia. Concerts were often held, and in the country many old-time English festivals,
such as May Day, were kept up. The most frequent and fashionable amusements of that time were
balls and parties. We hear of the gentlemen and dames going to "routs" in their sedan chairs,
much as they did in the old country: arriving at eight--they kept better hours than our modern
fashionable people--they would dance the staid and stately minuet and the gayer contra-dance,
to the music mainly of fiddles, till midnight, and then separate, horrified at the lateness
of the hour.

[Sidenote: Imitations of the English.]

Indeed, we are able to see in the habits of the American upper classes a distinct imitation
of London fashions, despite the quarrel with the British. The whole etiquette of patrician
society was based upon that of the English court, just as the law administered in the courts
was borrowed from that dispensed at Westminster. It is interesting to note that "gentlemen
took snuff in those days almost universally: and a great deal of expense and variety were often
lavished upon a snuff-box. To take snuff with one another was as much a matter of courtesy
as the lifting of the hat."

[Sidenote: Wine and Profanity.]

The days of prevalent cigar-smoking and tobacco-chewing had not come. The use of wine and ardent
spirits was regarded with less reprobation in the old society than in the new; profanity, too,
was indulged in much more freely by men of standing and moral profession than now. Thus we
can recognize, in these and in many other things, a progress in morals, and in greater refinement
both of thought, manners, and language, as well as in the material enginery of civilization.

VII.

THE REVOLUTION.

[Sidenote: Washington as Commander-in-chief.]

George Washington had been assigned to the command-in-chief of the colonial troops, just before
the Battle of Bunker Hill. Thus, at the very start, wisdom ruled the counsels and Providence
guided the action of our forefathers. The military abilities and lofty patriotism of Washington
could scarcely have been foreseen at the first in all their breadth and scope; yet he was already
known as a soldier of tried courage and of prudent conduct, and as a Virginia gentleman of
conspicuous social and private virtues.

[Sidenote: Continental Generals.]

Washington assumed the chief direction of the Continental forces, under the famous old elm
which still stands, but a few steps from Harvard College, in Old Cambridge, on the third day
of July, 1775. At the same time of his appointment, four major-generals--Artemus Ward, Israel
Putnam, Philip Schuyler, and Charles Lee--were designated. The principal troops of the colonies
were at this time gathered in an irregular cordon around Boston. Their position was almost
unchanged from that which they had occupied before the Battle of Bunker Hill; for the British
were unable to follow up the success which they had achieved on that occasion.

[Sidenote: The Continental Forces.]

The general-in-chief, on inspecting his forces, saw how ill disciplined and ill supplied they
were. They had but little clothing, a scant supply of arms, and still less ammunition. Washington's
first task was by no means the least difficult of those which lay before him. It was to create
an army out of a brave but heterogeneous multitude of patriots. It was to collect arms and
supplies; to keep vigilant watch on the British in Boston; to fortify and defend the surrounding
circle; and prepare to meet and drive out the pent-up foe.

At last, after preparations extending through nearly eight months, Boston was attacked by batteries
from Dorchester Heights, and on the 17th of March, 1776, Howe evacuated the town, and the first
decisive struggle of the seven years' contest had been decided in favor of the Americans.

[Sidenote: First Campaign.]

