Her son, for a long time much afflicted, seeks to distinguish himself and acquire friends.
Taking no warning from what has occurred, he thinks only of running after the fortune of this
world, and is surprised at Paris by the small-pox.  He believes himself dead, thinks of what
he has neglected all his life, but fear suddenly seizes him, and he dies in the midst of it,
on the 13th of September, 1731, leaving an only son, who dies a year after him, eighteen months
old, all the great wealth of the family going to collateral relatives.

These Memoirs are not essays on morality, therefore I have contented myself with the most simple
and the most naked recital of facts; but I may, perhaps, be permitted to apply here those two
verses of the 37th Psalm, which appear so expressly made for the purpose: "I have seen the
impious exalted like the cedars of Lebanon: Yea, he passed away, and, lo, he was not; yea,
I sought him, but he could not be found."

But let me leave this subject now, to treat of other matters.  On Friday, the last day of August,
I lost one of the best and most revered of friends, the Duc de Beavilliers.  He died at Vaucresson
after an illness of about two months, his intellect clear to the last, aged sixty-six years,
having been born on the 24th of Oct 1648.

He was the son of M. de Saint-Aignan, who with honour and valour was truly romantic in gallantry,
in belles-lettres, and in arms.  He was Captain of the Guards of Gaston, and at the end of
1649 bought of the Duc de Liancourt the post of first-gentleman of the King's chamber.  He
commanded afterwards in Berry against the party of M. le Prince, and served elsewhere subsequently.
In 1661 he was made Chevalier of the Order, and in 1661 Duke and Peer.  His first wife he lost
in 1679.  At the end of a year he married one of her chambermaids, who had been first of all
engaged to take care of her dogs.  She was so modest, and he so shamefaced, that in despite
of repeated pressing on the part of the King, she could not be induced to take her tabouret.
She lived in much retirement, and had so many virtues that she made herself respected all her
life, which was long.  M. de Beauvilliers was one of the children of the first marriage.  I
know not what care M. and Madame de Saint-Aignan took of the others, but they left him, until
he was six or seven years of age, to the mercy of their lodge-keeper.  Then he was confided
to the care of a canon of Notre Dame de Clery.  The household of the canon consisted of one
maid-servant, with whom the little boy slept; and they continued to sleep together until he
was fourteen or fifteen years old, without either of them thinking of evil, or the canon remarking
that the lad was growing into a man.  The death of his eldest brother called M. de Beauvilliers
home.  He entered the army, served with distinction at the head of is regiment of cavalry,
and was brigadier.

He was tall, thin, had a long and ruddy face, a large aquiline nose, a sunken mouth, expressive,
piercing eyes, an agreeable smile, a very gentle manner but ordinarily retiring, serious, and
concentrated.  B disposition he was hasty, hot, passionate, fond of pleasure.  Ever since God
had touched him, which happened early in his life, he had become gentle, mildest, humble, kind,
enlightened, charitable, and always full of real piety and goodness.  In private, where he
was free, he was gay, joked, and bantered pleasantly, and laughed with good heart.  He liked
to be made fun of there was only the story of his sleeping with the canon's servant that wounded
his modesty, and I have seen him embarrassed when Madame de Beauvilliers has related it,--smiling,
however, but praying her sometimes not to tell it.  His piety, which, as I have said, commenced
early in life, separated him from companions of his own age.  At the army one day, during a
promenade of the King, he walked alone, a little in front.  Some one remarked it, and observed,
sneeringly, that "he was meditating."  The King, who heard this, turned towards the speaker,
and, looking at him, said, "Yes, 'tis M. de Beauvilliers, one of the best men of the Court,
and of my realm."  This sudden and short apology caused silence, and food for reflection, so
that the fault-finders remained in respect before his merit.

The King must have entertained a high regard for him, to give him, in 1670, the very delicate
commission he entrusted to him.  Madame had just been so openly poisoned, the conviction was
so complete and so general that it was very difficult to palliate it.  Our King and the King
of England, between whom she had just become a stronger bond, by the journey she had made into
England, were penetrated by grief and indignation, and the English could not contain themselves.
The King chose the Duc de Beauvilliers to carry his compliments of condolence to the King of
England, and under this pretext to try to prevent this misfortune interfering with their friendship
and their union, and to calm the fury of London and the nation.  The King was not deceived:
the prudent dexterity of the Duc de Beauvilliers brought round the King of England, and even
appeased London and the nation.

M. de Beauvilliers had expressed a wish to be buried at Montargis, in the Benedictine monastery,
where eight of his daughters had become nuns. Madame de Beauvilliers went there, and by an
act of religion, terrible to think of, insisted upon being present at the interment.  She retired
to her house at Paris, where during the rest of her life she lived in complete solitude, without
company or amusement of any kind.  For nearly twenty years she remained there, and died in
1733, seventy-five years of age, infinitely rich in alms and all sorts of good works.

The King taxed the infantry regiments, which had risen to an excessive price.  This venality
of the only path by which the superior grades can be reached is a great blot upon the military
system, and stops the career of many a man who would become an excellent soldier.  It is a
gangrene which for a long time has eaten into all the orders and all the parties of the state,
and under which it will be odd if all do not succumb. Happily it is unknown, or little known,
in all the other countries of Europe!

Towards the end of this year Cardinal d'Estrees died in Paris at his abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Pres,
nearly eighty-seven years of age, having always enjoyed perfect health of body and mind until
this illness, which was very short, and which left his intellect clear to the last.  It is
proper and curious to pause for a moment upon a personage, all his life of importance, and
who at his death was Cardinal, Bishop of Albano, Abbe of Longpont, of Mount Saint-Eloi, of
Saint-Nichoas-aux-Bois, of La Staffarde in Piedmont (where Catinat gained a celebrated battle
before being Marechal of France), of Saint-Claude in Franche-Comte, of Anchin in Flanders,
and of Saint-Germain-des-Pres in Paris.  He was also Commander of the Order of the promotion
of 1688.

Merit, aided by the chances of fortune, made out of an obscure family of the Boulonais country,
a singularly illustrious race in the fourth generation, of which Mademoiselle de Tourbes alone
remains.  The Cardinal, brother of the last Marechal d'Estrees, their uncle, used to say; that
he knew his fathers as far as the one who had been page of Queen Anne, Duchess of Brittany;
but beyond that he knew nothing, and it was not worth while searching.  Gabrielle d'Estrees,
mistress of Henry IV., whose beauty made her father's fortune, and whose history is too well
known to be here alluded to, was sister of the Cardinal's father, but died thirty years before
he was born.  It was through her that the family became elevated.  The father of Cardinal d'Estrees
was distinguished all his life by his merit, his capacity, and the authority and elevated posts
he held.  He was made Marshal of France in 1626, and it is a thing unique that he, his son,
and his grandson were not only Marshals of France, but all three were in succession seniors
of that corps for a long time.

The Cardinal d'Estrees was born in 1627, and for forty years lived with his father, profiting
by his lessons and his consideration.  He was of the most agreeable manners, handsome, well
made, full of humour, wit, and ability; in society the pleasantest person in the world, and
yet well instructed; indeed, of rare erudition, generous, obliging, dignified, incapable of
meanness, he was with so much talent and so many great and amiable qualities generally loved
and respected, and deserved to be.  He was made Cardinal in 1671, but was not declared until
after many delays had occurred.  These delays much disturbed him.  It was customary, then,
to pay more visits.  One evening the Abbe de la Victoire, one of his friends, and very witty,
arrived very late at a supper, in a house where he was expected.  The company inopportunely
asked him where he had been, and what had delayed him.

"Alas!" replied the Abbe, in a tone of sadness, "where have I been?  I have been all day accompanying
the body of poor M. de Laon."  [The Cardinal d'Estrees was then Bishop and Duke of Laon.]

"M. de Laon!" cried everybody, "M. de Laon dead!  Why, he was quite well yesterday.  'Tis dreadful.
Tell us what has happened."

"What has happened?" replied the Abbe, still with the same tone.  "Why, he took me with him
when he paid his visits, and though his body was with me, his spirit was at Rome, so that I
quitted him very wearied."  At this recital grief changed into merriment.

That grand dinner at Fontainebleau for the Prince of Tuscany, at which the Prince was to be
the only guest, and yet never received his invitation from the Cardinal, I have already mentioned.
He was oftentimes thus absent, but never when business or serious matters were concerned, so
that his forgetfulness was amusing.  He never could bear to hear of his domestic affairs. 
Pressed and tormented by his steward and his maitre d'hotel to overlook their accounts, that
he had not seen for many years, he appointed a day to be devoted to them.  The two financiers
demanded that he should close his door so as not to be interrupted; he consented with difficulty,
then changed his mind, and said that if Cardinal Bonzi came he must be admitted, but that it
was not likely he would come on that particular day.  Directly afterwards he sent a trusty
servant to Cardinal Bonzi, entreating him to come on such and such a day, between three and
four o'clock, conjuring him not to fail, and begging him above all to come as of his own accord,
the reason to be explained afterwards.  On the appointed day Cardinal d'Estrees told his porter
to let no one enter in the afternoon except Cardinal Bonzi, who assuredly was not likely to
come, but who was not to be sent away if he did.  His people, delighted at having their master
to themselves all day without interruption, arrived about three o'clock; the Cardinal quitted
his family and the few friends who had that day dined with him, and passed into a cabinet where
his business people laid out their papers.  He said a thousand absurdities to them upon his
expenditure, of which he understood nothing, and unceasingly looked towards the window, without
appearing to do so, secretly sighing for a prompt deliverance.  A little before four o'clock,
a coach arrived in the court-yard; his business people, enraged with the porter, exclaimed
that there will then be no more opportunity for working.  The Cardinal in delight referred
to the orders he had given.  "You will see," he added, "that it is Cardinal Bonzi, the only
man I excepted, and who, of all days in the world, comes to-day."

Immediately afterwards, the Cardinal was announced, and the intendant and maitre d'hotel were
forced to make off with their papers and their table. As soon as he was alone with Bonzi, he
explained why he had requested this visit, and both laughed heartily.  Since then his business
people have never caught him again, never during the rest of his life would he hear speak of them.

He must have had honest people about him; for every day his table was magnificent, and filled
at Paris and at the Court with the best company. His equipages were so, also; he had numberless
domestics, many gentlemen, chaplains, and secretaries.  He gave freely to the poor, and to
his brother the Marechal and his children (who were not well off), and yet died without owing
a crown to a living soul.

His death, for which he had been long prepared, was fine-edifying and very Christian-like.
He was universally regretted.  A joke of his with the King is still remembered.  One day, at
dinner, where he always paid much attention to the Cardinal, the King complained of the inconvenience
he felt in no longer having teeth.

"Teeth, sire!" replied the Cardinal; "why, who has any teeth?"

The joke is that the Cardinal, though old, still had very white and very beautiful teeth, and
that his mouth, large, but agreeable, was so shaped that it showed them plainly in speaking.
Therefore the King burst out laughing at this reply, and all present also, including the Cardinal,
who was not in the slightest degree embarrassed.  I might go on forever telling about him,
but enough, perhaps, has been already said.

The commencement of the new year, 1715, was marked by the death of Fenelon, at Cambrai, where
he had lived in disgrace so many years.  I have already said something about him, so that I
have now but little to add.  His life at Cambrai was remarkable for the assiduity with which
he attended to the spiritual and temporal wants of his flock.  He was indefatigable in the
discharge of his functions, and in endeavouring to gain all hearts.  Cambrai is a place much
frequented; through which many people pass.  During the war the number of wounded soldiers
he had received into his house or attended to in the hospitals passes all belief.  He spared
nothing for them, neither physical comforts nor spiritual consolations.  Thus it is incredible
to what an extent he became the idol of the whole army.  His manners, to high and low, were
most affable, yet everywhere he was the prelate, the gentleman, the author of "Telemachus."
He ruled his diocese with a gentle hand, in no way meddled with the Jansenists; he left all
untouched.  Take him for all in all, he had a bright genius and was a great man.  His admiration
true or feigned for Madame Guyon remained to the last, yet always without suspicion of impropriety.
He had so exactly arranged his affairs that he died without money, and yet without owing a
sou to anybody.