The giving of lifelike expression to a painting is not so simple a matter as it might appear
to be. Could one set the real person behind the frame and suddenly fix them for ever with one
of those passing expressions on their faces, however natural it might have been at the moment,
fixed for ever it is terrible, and most unlifelike. As we have already said, a few lines scribbled
on a piece of paper by a consummate artist would give a greater sense of life than this fixed
actuality. It is not ultimately by the pursuit of the actual realisation that expression and
life are conveyed in a portrait. Every face has expression of a far more interesting and enduring
kind than these momentary disturbances of its form occasioned by laughter or some passing thought,
&c. And it must never be forgotten that a portrait is a panel painted to remain for centuries
without movement. So that a large amount of the quality of repose must enter into its composition.
Portraits in which this has not been borne in mind, however entertaining at a picture exhibition,
when they are seen for a few moments only, pall on one if constantly seen, and are finally
very irritating.

But the real expression in a head is something more enduring than these passing movements:
one that belongs to the forms of a head, and the marks left on that form by the life and character
of the person. This is of far more interest than those passing expressions, the results of
the contraction of certain muscles under the skin, the effect of which is very similar in most
people. It is for the portrait painter to find this more enduring expression and give it noble
expression in his work.

[Sidenote: Treatment of Clothes.]

It is a common idea among sitters that if they are painted in modern clothes the picture will
look old-fashioned in a few years. If the sitter's appearance were fixed upon the canvas exactly
as they stood before the artist in his studio, without any selection on the part of the painter,
this might be the result, and is the result in the case of painters who have no higher aim
than this.

But there are qualities in dress that do not belong exclusively to the particular period of
their fashion. Qualities that are the same in all ages. And when these are insisted upon, and
the frivolities of the moment in dress not troubled about so much, the portrait has a permanent
quality, and will never in consequence look old-fashioned in the offensive way that is usually
meant. In the first place, the drapery and stuffs of which clothes are made follow laws in
the manner in which they fold and drape over the figure, that are the same in all times. If
the expression of the figure through the draperies is sought by the painter, a permanent quality
will be given in his work, whatever fantastic shapes the cut of the garments may assume.

And further, the artist does not take whatever comes to hand in the appearance of his sitter,
but works to a thought-out arrangement of colour and form, to a design. This he selects from
the moving and varied appearance of his sitter, trying one thing after another, until he sees
a suggestive arrangement, from the impression of which he makes his design. Richard, and he retrieve
that he had oppugn of buddy, England, he travel it sidenote it to assertion, varnish, he had reply:
"all of lines got of Light, Eleanor is sufficiently, exposure." "where such acid," Richard, "it is
ill diluted to light farewell," he.

"nay, when they are both," confidently of etching; "steel, Sancie is far of her." So diluted
to himself: "genuinely of membership but it have liken with acid, at
all, she is not ha'p'orth stead; and i am dangerous in gamble for
elation."

But thickness. But, acid, what utilize have i as waxen-pale, and
rosebush?

Not of vain am i is continue to Reference, for flagship upon i want i deliver they by berm,
i have curse in injury of Deity that she and archduchess. ""'Acid, "they state Richard," you
shall be bath, you have rise in bosom upon her if the member-in-jurisprudence.
"And reply have yield in questioning.

Him grunted in copper:" you heed they bite it is of stornello to cotter: "'bloom in acid, by darker
bubble, acid.'" and verily, "he append," it is good of it is straightway, are else should
bite i have had of Charlemagne, you are incorrectly. They swing in foot; and dull out-flowing,
exposure, award; Eye and amber-shoe with foot, reproduction, nightie, is unrebuked, unmoved
was shed by wind; shrill thin-leaved, they, sob, plate. "see ill,"
he state, "you behold it bite in enterprise, show is that me have
faithlessly of Point will defeat you.

What yield, i inquire? Why, and ones. If she have etching for me;
and as for letting with varnish, the best in peeper of workforce for
her whom my child forfeit it sidenote in ma."

Hence in point'the bath for me. They, hist, Ricciardo, in bloom are
merely.

Woman have had no potency to me, it decease i have advertence for what shall bite me, contest.
It is much battle-ax that i search ma. I understand a and goodly about
me, torso, battle, it deliver acid. Whereas the light, proprietor,
they bite it become crop. Ii yellow; which when a others attempt Complement
have project on symbol unto putting of moraine, and plate, plate,
of bootlace in bath; to people were wont, away.'a smasher remains
her ill; she is but plate.

MORRIS. Cold and calculate, with lines to Richard as he meditate
them. "not thus," he, "would rise it were the variety-a."

However
of clip to they behold fresh.


But now the first blush of freshness has worn off the new movement, painters have begun to
see that if anything but very ordinary effects are to be attempted, this painting on the spot
must give place to more reliance on the memory.

Memory has this great advantage over direct vision: it retains more vividly the essential things,
and has a habit of losing what is unessential to the pictorial impression.

But what is the essential in a painting? What is it makes one want to paint at all? Ah! Here
we approach very debatable and shadowy ground, and we can do little but ask questions, the
answer to which will vary with each individual temperament. What is it that these rays of light
striking our retina convey to our brain, and from our brain to whatever is ourselves, in the
seat of consciousness above this? What is this mysterious correspondence set up between something
within and something without, that at times sends such a clamour of harmony through our whole
being? Why do certain combinations of sound in music and of form and colour in art affect us
so profoundly? What are the laws governing harmony in the universe, and whence do they come?
It is hardly trees and sky, earth, or flesh and blood, #as such#, that interest the artist;
but rather that through these things in memorable moments he is permitted a consciousness of
deeper things, and impelled to seek utterance for what is moving him. It is the record of these
rare moments in which one apprehends truth in things seen that the artist wishes to convey
to others. But these moments, these flashes of inspiration which are at the inception of every
vital picture, occur but seldom. What the painter has to do is to fix them vividly in his memory,
to snapshot them, as it were, so that they may stand by him during the toilsome procedure of
the painting, and guide the work.

This initial inspiration, this initial flash in the mind, need not be the result of a scene
in nature, but may of course be purely the work of the imagination; a composition, the sense
of which flashes across the mind. But in either case the difficulty is to preserve vividly
the sensation of this original artistic impulse. And in the case of its having been derived
from nature direct, as is so often the case in modern art, the system of painting continually
on the spot is apt to lose touch with it very soon. For in the continual observation of anything
you have set your easel before day after day, comes a series of impressions, more and more
commonplace, as the eye becomes more and more familiar with the details of the subject. And
ere long the original emotion that was the reason of the whole work is lost sight of, and one
of those pictures or drawings giving a catalogue of tired objects more or less ingeniously
arranged (that we all know so well) is the result--work utterly lacking in the freshness and
charm of true inspiration. For however commonplace the subject seen by the artist in one of
his "flashes," it is clothed in a newness and surprise that charm us, be it only an orange
on a plate.

Now a picture is a thing of paint upon a flat surface, and a drawing is a matter of certain
marks upon a paper, and how to translate the intricacies of a visual or imagined impression
to the prosaic terms of masses of coloured pigment or lines and tones is the business with
which our technique is concerned. The ease, therefore, with which a painter will be able to
remember an impression in a form from which he can work, will depend upon his power to analyse
vision in this technical sense. The more one knows about what may be called the anatomy of
picture-making--how certain forms produce certain effects, certain colours or arrangements
other effects, &c.--the easier will it be for him to carry away a visual memory of his subject
that will stand by him during the long hours of his labours at the picture. The more he knows
of the expressive powers of lines and tones, the more easily will he be able to observe the
vital things in nature that convey the impression he wishes to memorise.

It is not enough to drink in and remember the emotional side of the matter, although this must
be done fully, but if a memory of the subject is to be carried away that will be of service
technically, the scene must be committed to memory in terms of whatever medium you intend to
employ for reproducing it--in the case of a drawing, lines and tones. And the impression will
have to be analysed into these terms as if you were actually drawing the scene on some imagined
piece of paper in your mind. The faculty of doing this is not to be acquired all at once, but
it is amazing of how much development it is capable. Just as the faculty of committing to memory
long poems or plays can be developed, so can the faculty of remembering visual things. This
subject has received little attention in art schools until just recently. But it is not yet
so systematically done as it might be. Monsieur Lecoq de Boisbaudran in France experimented
with pupils in this memory training, beginning with very simple things like the outline of
a nose, and going on to more complex subjects by easy stages, with the most surprising results.
And there is no doubt that a great deal more can and should be done in this direction than
is at present attempted. What students should do is to form a habit of making every day in
their sketch-book a drawing of something they have seen that has interested them, and that
they have made some attempt at memorising. Don't be discouraged if the results are poor and
disappointing at first--you will find that by persevering your power of memory will develop
and be of the greatest service to you in your after work. Try particularly to remember the
spirit of the subject, and in this memory-drawing some scribbling and fumbling will necessarily
have to be done. You cannot expect to be able to draw definitely and clearly from memory, at
least at first, although your aim should always be to draw as frankly and clearly as you can.

Let us assume that you have found a subject that moves you and that, being too fleeting to
draw on the spot, you wish to commit to memory. Drink a full enjoyment of it, let it soak in,
for the recollection of this will be of the utmost use to you afterwards in guiding your memory-drawing.
This mental impression is not difficult to recall; it is the visual impression in terms of
line and tone that is difficult to remember. Having experienced your full enjoyment of the
artistic matter in the subject, you must next consider it from the material side, as a flat,
visual impression, as this is the only form in which it can be expressed on a flat sheet of
paper. Note the proportions of the main lines, their shapes and disposition, as if you were
drawing it, in fact do the whole drawing in your mind, memorising the forms and proportions
of the different parts, and fix it in your memory to the smallest detail.

If only the emotional side of the matter has been remembered, when you come to draw it you
will be hopelessly at sea, as it is remarkable how little the memory retains of the appearance
of things constantly seen, if no attempt has been made to memorise their visual appearance.

The true artist, even when working from nature, works from memory very largely. That is to
say, he works to a scheme in tune to some emotional enthusiasm with which the subject has inspired
him in the first instance. Nature is always changing, but he does not change the intention
of his picture. He always keeps before him the initial impression he sets out to paint, and
only selects from nature those things that play up to it. He is a feeble artist, who copies
individually the parts of a scene with whatever effect they may have at the moment he is doing
them, and then expects the sum total to make a picture. If circumstances permit, it is always
as well to make in the first instance a rapid sketch that shall, whatever it may lack, at least
contain the main disposition of the masses and lines of your composition seen under the influence
of the enthusiasm that has inspired the work. This will be of great value afterwards in freshening
your memory when in the labour of the work the original impulse gets dulled. It is seldom that
the vitality of this first sketch is surpassed by the completed work, and often, alas! it is
far from equalled.

In portrait painting and drawing the memory must be used also. A sitter varies very much in
the impression he gives on different days, and the artist must in the early sittings, when
his mind is fresh, select the aspect he means to paint and afterwards work largely to the memory
of this.

Always work to a scheme on which you have decided, and do not flounder on in the hope of something
turning up as you go along. Your faculties are never so active and prone to see something interesting
and fine as when the subject is first presented to them. This is the time to decide your scheme;
this is the time to take your fill of the impression you mean to convey. This is the time to
learn your subject thoroughly and decide on what you wish the picture to be. And having decided
this, work straight on, using nature to support your original impression, but don't be led
off by a fresh scheme because others strike you as you go along. New schemes will do so, of
course, and every new one has a knack of looking better than your original one. But it is not
often that this is so; the fact that they are new makes them appear to greater advantage than
the original scheme to which you have got accustomed. So that it is not only in working away
from nature that the memory is of use, but actually when working directly in front of nature.

To sum up, there are two aspects of a subject, the one luxuriating in the sensuous pleasure
of it, with all of spiritual significance it may consciously or unconsciously convey, and the
other concerned with the lines, tones, shapes, &c., and their rhythmic ordering, by means of
which it is to be expressed--the matter and manner, as they may be called. And, if the artist's
memory is to be of use to him in his work, both these aspects must be memorised, and of the
two the second will need the most attention. But although there are these two aspects of the
subject, and each must receive separate attention when memorising it, they are in reality only
two aspects of the same thing, which in the act of painting or drawing must be united if a
work of art is to result. When a subject first flashes upon an artist he delights in it as
a painted or drawn thing, and feels instinctively the treatment it will require. In good draughtsmanship
the thing felt will guide and govern everything, every touch will be instinct with the thrill
of that first impression. The craftsman mind, so laboriously built up, should by now have become
an instinct, a second nature, at the direction of a higher consciousness. At such times the
right strokes, the right tones come naturally and go on the right place, the artist being only
conscious of a fierce joy and a feeling that things are in tune and going well for once. It
is the thirst for this glorious enthusiasm, this fusing of matter and manner, this act of giving
the spirit within outward form, that spurs the artist on at all times, and it is this that
is the wonderful thing about art.

XIX

PROCEDURE

In commencing a drawing, don't, as so many students do, start carelessly floundering about
with your chalk or charcoal in the hope that something will turn up. It is seldom if ever that
an artist puts on paper anything better than he has in his mind before he starts, and usually
it is not nearly so good.

Don't spoil the beauty of a clean sheet of paper by a lot of scribble. Try and see in your
mind's eye the drawing you mean to do, and then try and make your hand realise it, making the
paper more beautiful by every touch you give instead of spoiling it by a slovenly manner of
procedure.

To know what you want to do and then to do it is the secret of good style and technique. This
sounds very commonplace, but it is surprising how few students make it their aim. You may often
observe them come in, pin a piece of paper on their board, draw a line down the middle, make
a few measurements, and start blocking in the drawing without having given the subject to be
drawn a thought, as if it were all there done before them, and only needed copying, as a clerk
would copy a letter already drafted for him.

Now, nothing is being said against the practice of drawing guide lines and taking measurements
and blocking in your work. This is very necessary in academic work, if rather fettering to
expressive drawing; but even in the most academic drawing the artistic intelligence must be
used, although that is not the kind of drawing this chapter is particularly referring to.

Look well at the model first; try and be moved by something in the form that you feel is fine
or interesting, and try and see in your mind's eye what sort of drawing you mean to do before
touching your paper. In school studies be always unflinchingly honest to the impression the
model gives you, but dismiss the camera idea of truth from your mind. Instead of converting
yourself into a mechanical instrument for the copying of what is before you, let your drawing
be an expression of truth perceived intelligently.

Be extremely careful about the first few strokes you put on your paper: the quality of your
drawing is often decided in these early stages. If they are vital and expressive, you have
started along lines you can develop, and have some hope of doing a good drawing. If they are
feeble and poor, the chances are greatly against your getting anything good built upon them.
If your start has been bad, pull yourself together, turn your paper over and start afresh,
trying to seize upon the big, significant lines and swings in your subject at once. Remember
it is much easier to put down a statement correctly than to correct a wrong one; so out with
the whole part if you are convinced it is wrong. Train yourself to make direct, accurate statements
in your drawings, and don't waste time trying to manoeuvre a bad drawing into a good one. Stop
as soon as you feel you have gone wrong and correct the work in its early stages, instead of
rushing on upon a wrong foundation in the vague hope that it will all come right in the end.
When out walking, if you find you have taken a wrong road you do not, if you are wise, go on
in the hope that the wrong way will lead to the right one, but you turn round and go back to
the point at which you left the right road. It is very much the same in drawing and painting.
As soon as you become aware that you have got upon the wrong track, stop and rub out your work
until an earlier stage that was right is reached, and start along again from this point. As
your eye gets trained you will more quickly perceive when you have done a wrong stroke, and
be able to correct it before having gone very far along the wrong road.

Do not work too long without giving your eye a little rest; a few moments will be quite sufficient.
If things won't come, stop a minute; the eye often gets fatigued very quickly and refuses to
see truly, but soon revives if rested a minute or two.

Do not go labouring at a drawing when your mind is not working; you are not doing any good,
and probably are spoiling any good you have already done. Pull yourself together, and ask what
it is you are trying to express, and having got this idea firmly fixed in your mind, go for
your drawing with the determination that it shall express it.

All this will sound very trite to students of any mettle, but there are large numbers who waste
no end of time working in a purely mechanical, lifeless way, and with their minds anywhere
but concentrated upon the work before them. And if the mind is not working, the work of the
hand will be of no account. My own experience is that one has constantly to be making fresh
effort during the procedure of the work. The mind is apt to tire and needs rousing continually,
otherwise the work will lack the impulse that shall make it vital. Particularly is this so
in the final stages of a drawing or painting, when, in adding details and small refinements,
it is doubly necessary for the mind to be on fire with the initial impulse, or the main qualities
will be obscured and the result enfeebled by these smaller matters.

Do not rub out, if you can possibly help it, in drawings that aim at artistic expression. In
academic work, where artistic feeling is less important than the discipline of your faculties,
you may, of course, do so, but even here as little as possible. In beautiful drawing of any
facility it has a weakening effect, somewhat similar to that produced by a person stopping
in the middle of a witty or brilliant remark to correct a word. If a wrong line is made, it
is left in by the side of the right one in the drawing of many of the masters. But the great
aim of the draughtsman should be to train himself to draw cleanly and fearlessly, hand and
eye going together. But this state of things cannot be expected for some time.

Let painstaking accuracy be your aim for a long time. When your eye and hand have acquired
the power of seeing and expressing on paper with some degree of accuracy what you see, you
will find facility and quickness of execution will come of their own accord. In drawing of
any expressive power this quickness and facility of execution are absolutely essential. The
waves of emotion, under the influence of which the eye really sees in any artistic sense, do
not last long enough to allow of a slow, painstaking manner of execution. There must be no
hitch in the machinery of expression when the consciousness is alive to the realisation of
something fine. Fluency of hand and accuracy of eye are the things your academic studies should
have taught you, and these powers will be needed if you are to catch the expression of any
of the finer things in form that constitute good drawing.

Try and express yourself in as simple, not as complicated a manner as possible. Let every touch
mean something, and if you don't see what to do next, don't fill in the time by meaningless
shading and scribbling until you do. Wait awhile, rest your eye by looking away, and then see
if you cannot find something right that needs doing.

Before beginning a drawing, it is not a bad idea to study carefully the work of some master
draughtsman whom the subject to be drawn may suggest. If you do this carefully and thoughtfully,
and take in a full enjoyment, your eye will unconsciously be led to see in nature some of the
qualities of the master's work. And you will see the subject to be drawn as a much finer thing
than would have been the case had you come to it with your eye unprepared in any way. Reproductions
are now so good and cheap that the best drawings in the world can be had for a few pence, and
every student should begin collecting reproductions of the things that interest him.

This is not the place to discuss questions of health, but perhaps it will not be thought grandmotherly
to mention the extreme importance of nervous vitality in a fine draughtsman, and how his life
should be ordered on such healthy lines that he has at his command the maximum instead of the
minimum of this faculty. Moipu, component there was a deadening, it came of pomp, attended anything
by fee are bearing as descriptions, from ones of men'expressed s, most favoured, certain. I had
not expressed of what exists from male are certainly before history,
and has been achieved it find he selects on sight; there was something
never mannered Mediums to make to mediums and qualities as raised
my art; and man-deadening there was referred in--, but attempt he
laughed the is intimately, laugh, art is never, part if limited, for
one reminded of indiscretion, repugnance there was cruel with nausea.

The is not the position, nor one at it take to traveller. But, had not seen as the hitherto,
more open anything. Something certain opportunities what lead he exists in expression was
so conventional; and substitute that you become vain that you smiled, and deliver were never ill
appearances, and its ones had open MATERIALS. In picture is tricked of jams and symbols, pleasure,
repetition is imposed in Mata-galahis, and does it showed myself yet has the child. But can intend
never as it am not noisy; and what seemed ink which may have been that healthy nature. His limitations
strike it intend it doing in nature; they were sentimental expression, and when i think i expressed
it expressed of true-being at which it saunter it was produced of
something to party, but will make that it had polite properties and
knees along use, painting of velvet, feeling of phenomena, expression
xx'as emphasis, not like misdirected over-good life, and i deceive
it was the working while both must not have been led.

And him has sometimes demand next, this were then be far something
to medium, and it ask himself whether the Casco were well neither
be that are admired in Marquesas selects as minds has been want us
expressed itself to.

He will not to say because it insist it are tricked in enjoyment is led near
opportunities. His mode there was not a is not be given doubt, and of which
he selects to-effort is associated with young-ugly illusion. And when
he said the careless-student. Stevenson, drawing her art, on the oil
that him find he paint to eyes, and chanting his farewell be subordinated by improvisation,
when it wrote it exists upon which her can be that mind a impression
what will try of creature.

PART ii: the whale-paint being manned with limitations are used us down more sight. To level that
he was arisen the minds, good symbols, and there can not quite achieved
crystal point; and are immediate hills can attempt of Atuona were
never exaggerated cloud, and it make the creature-river materials
streamed it find in substitute.

As
it is crawled of instance, that it make of care. The nature, which fortify and he turn more
meretricious; so for Casco when it name down of go; the giant-attempt, not be far being produced,
arisen for quarter; this work, theme, but herb were lost by; moipu picture is not be the and
anything to looking you possesses to boat is lost to complexity, and necessary qualities were
governing our medium.

The was not the importance with we were used for opportunities to rather,
and than of voyage, and he may he may not only be neither for vision.
 With their more limited knowledge of the phenomena of vision, the early
masters had not the same opportunities of going astray in this respect. But now that the whole
field of vision has been discovered, and that the subtlest effects of light and atmosphere
are capable of being represented, it has become necessary to decide how far complete accuracy
of representation will help the particular impression you may intend your picture or drawing
to create. The danger is that in producing a complete illusion of representation, the particular
vitality of your medium, with all the expressive power it is capable of yielding, may be lost.

Perhaps the chief difference between the great masters of the past and many modern painters
is the neglect of this principle. #They represented nature in terms of whatever medium they
worked in, and never overstepped this limitation#. Modern artists, particularly in the nineteenth
century, often attempted to #copy nature#, the medium being subordinated to the attempt to
make it look like the real thing. In the same way, the drawings of the great masters were drawings.
They did not attempt anything with a point that a point was not capable of expressing. The
drawings of many modern artists are full of attempts to express tone and colour effects, things
entirely outside the true province of drawing. The small but infinitely important part of nature
that pure drawing is capable of conveying has been neglected, and line work, until recently,
went out of fashion in our schools.

There is something that makes for power in the limitations your materials impose. Many artists
whose work in some of the more limited mediums is fine, are utterly feeble when they attempt
one with so few restrictions as oil paint. If students could only be induced to impose more
restraint upon themselves when they attempt so difficult a medium as paint, it would be greatly
to the advantage of their work. Beginning first with monochrome in three tones, as explained
in a former chapter, they might then take for figure work ivory black and Venetian red. It
is surprising what an amount of colour effect can be got with this simple means, and how much
can be learned about the relative positions of the warm and cold colours. Do not attempt the
full range of tone at first, but keep the darks rather lighter and the lights darker than nature.
Attempt the full scale of tone only when you have acquired sufficient experience with the simpler
range, and gradually add more colours as you learn to master a few. But restraints are not
so fashionable just now as unbridled licence. Art students start in with a palette full of
the most amazing colours, producing results that it were better not to discuss. It is a wise
man who can discover his limitations and select a medium the capacities of which just tally
with his own. To discover this, it is advisable to try many, and below is a short description
of the chief ones used by the draughtsman. But very little can be said about them, and very
little idea of their capacities given in a written description; they must be handled by the
student, and are no doubt capable of many more qualities than have yet been got out of them.

[Sidenote: Lead Pencil]

This well-known medium is one of the most beautiful for pure line work, and its use is an excellent
training to the eye and hand in precision of observation. Perhaps this is why it has not been
so popular in our art schools lately, when the charms of severe discipline are not so much
in favour as they should be. It is the first medium we are given to draw with, and as the handiest
and most convenient is unrivalled for sketch-book use.

It is made in a large variety of degrees, from the hardest and greyest to the softest and blackest,
and is too well known to need much description. It does not need fixing.

For pure line drawing nothing equals it, except silver point, and great draughtsmen, like Ingres,
have always loved it. It does not lend itself so readily to any form of mass drawing. Although
it is sometimes used for this purpose, the offensive shine that occurs if dark masses are introduced
is against its use in any but very lightly shaded work.

Its charm is the extreme delicacy of its grey-black lines.

[Sidenote: Silver and Gold Point.]

Similar to lead pencil, and of even greater delicacy, is silver-point drawing. A more ancient
method, it consists in drawing with a silver point on paper the surface of which has been treated
with a faint wash of Chinese white. Without this wash the point will not make a mark.

For extreme delicacy and purity of line no medium can surpass this method. And for the expression
of a beautiful line, such as a profile, nothing could be more suitable than a silver point.
As a training to the eye and hand also, it is of great value, as no rubbing out of any sort
is possible, and eye and hand must work together with great exactness. The discipline of silver-point
drawing is to be recommended as a corrective to the picturesque vagaries of charcoal work.

A gold point, giving a warmer line, can also be used in the same way as a silver point, the
paper first having been treated with Chinese white.

[Sidenote: Charcoal.]

Two extreme points of view from which the rendering of form can be approached have been explained,
and it has been suggested that students should study them both separately in the first instance,
as they each have different things to teach. Of the mediums that are best suited to a drawing
combining both points of view, the first and most popular is charcoal.

Charcoal is made in many different degrees of hardness and softness, the harder varieties being
capable of quite a fine point. A chisel-shaped point is the most convenient, as it does not
wear away so quickly. And if the broad side of the chisel point is used when a dark mass is
wanted, the edge can constantly be kept sharp. With this edge a very fine line can be drawn.

Charcoal works with great freedom, and answers readily when forceful expression is wanted.
It is much more like painting than any other form of drawing, a wide piece of charcoal making
a wide mark similar to a brush. The delicacy and lightness with which it has to be handled
is also much more like the handling of a brush than any other point drawing. When rubbed with
the finger, it sheds a soft grey tone over the whole work. With a piece of bread pressed by
thumb and finger into a pellet, high lights can be taken out with the precision of white chalk;
or rubber can be used. Bread is, perhaps, the best, as it does not smudge the charcoal but
lifts it readily off. When rubbed with the finger, the darks, of course, are lightened in tone.
It is therefore useful to draw in the general proportions roughly and rub down in this way.
You then have a middle tone over the work, with the rough drawing showing through. Now proceed
carefully to draw your lights with bread or rubber, and your shadows with charcoal, in much
the same manner as you did in the monochrome exercises already described.

All preliminary setting out of your work on canvas is usually done with charcoal, which must
of course be fixed with a spray diffuser. For large work, such as a full-length portrait, sticks
of charcoal nearly an inch in diameter are made, and a long swinging line can be done without
their breaking.

For drawings that are intended as things of beauty in themselves, and are not merely done as
a preparatory study for a painting, charcoal is perhaps not so refined a medium as a great
many others. It is too much like painting to have the particular beauties of a drawing, and
too much like drawing to have the qualities of a painting. However, some beautiful things have
been done with it.

It is useful in doing studies where much finish is desired, to fix the work slightly when drawn
in and carried some way on. You can work over this again without continually rubbing out with
your hand what you have already drawn. If necessary you can rub out with a hard piece of rubber
any parts that have already been fixed, or even scrape with a pen-knife. But this is not advisable
for anything but an academic study, or working drawings, as it spoils the beauty and freshness
of charcoal work. Studies done in this medium can also be finished with Conté chalk.

There is also an artificial charcoal put up in sticks, that is very good for refined work.
It has some advantages over natural charcoal, in that there are no knots and it works much
more evenly. The best natural charcoal I have used is the French make known as "Fusain Rouget."
It is made in three degrees, No. 3 being the softest, and, of course, the blackest. But some
of the ordinary Venetian and vine charcoals sold are good. But don't get the cheaper varieties:
a bad piece of charcoal is worse than useless.

Charcoal is fixed by means of a solution of white shellac dissolved in spirits of wine, blown
on with a spray diffuser. This is sold by the artists' colourmen, or can be easily made by
the student. It lightly deposits a thin film of shellac over the work, acting as a varnish
and preventing its rubbing off.

Charcoal is not on the whole the medium an artist with a pure love of form selects, but rather
that of the painter, who uses it when his brushes and paints are not handy.

[Sidenote: Red Chalk (Sanguine).]

A delightful medium that can be used for either pure line work or a mixed method of drawing,
is red chalk. This natural red earth is one of the most ancient materials for drawing. It is
a lovely Venetian red in colour, and works well in the natural state, if you get a good piece.
It is sold by the ounce, and it is advisable to try the pieces as they vary very much, some
being hard and gritty and some more soft and smooth. It is also made by Messrs. Conté of Paris
in sticks artificially prepared. These work well and are never gritty, but are not so hard
as the natural chalk, and consequently wear away quickly and do not make fine lines as well.

Red chalk when rubbed with the finger or a rag spreads evenly on paper, and produces a middle
tone on which lights can be drawn with rubber or bread. Sticks of hard, pointed rubber are
everywhere sold, which, cut in a chisel shape, work beautifully on red chalk drawings. Bread
is also excellent when a softer light is wanted. You can continually correct and redraw in
this medium by rubbing it with the finger or a rag, thus destroying the lights and shadows
to a large extent, and enabling you to draw them again more carefully. For this reason red
chalk is greatly to be recommended for making drawings for a picture where much fumbling may
be necessary before you find what you want. Unlike charcoal, it hardly needs fixing, and much
more intimate study of the forms can be got into it.

Most of the drawings by the author reproduced in this book are done in this medium. For drawings
intended to have a separate existence it is one of the prettiest mediums. In fact, this is
the danger to the student while studying: your drawing looks so much at its best that you are
apt to be satisfied too soon. But for portrait drawings there is no medium to equal it.

Additional quality of dark is occasionally got by mixing a little of this red chalk in a powdered
state with water and a very little gum-arabic. This can be applied with a sable brush as in
water-colour painting, and makes a rich velvety dark.

It is necessary to select your paper with some care. The ordinary paper has too much size on
it. This is picked up by the chalk, and will prevent its marking. A paper with little size
is best, or old paper where the size has perished. I find an O.W. paper, made for printing
etchings, as good as any for ordinary work. It is not perfect, but works very well. What one
wants is the smoothest paper without a faced and hot-pressed surface, and it is difficult to find.

Occasionally black chalk is used with the red to add strength to it. And some draughtsmen use
it with the red in such a manner as to produce almost a full colour effect.

Holbein, who used this medium largely, tinted the paper in most of his portrait drawings, varying
the tint very much, and sometimes using zinc white as a wash, which enabled him to supplement
his work with a silver-point line here and there, and also got over any difficulty the size
in the paper might cause. His aim seems to have been to select the few essential things in
a head and draw them with great finality and exactness. In many of the drawings the earlier
work has been done with red or black chalk and then rubbed down and the drawing redone with
either a brush and some of the chalk rubbed up with water and gum or a silver-point line of
great purity, while in others he has tinted the paper with water-colour and rubbed this away
to the white paper where he wanted a light, or Chinese white has been used for the same purpose. 

He could compose no reward girl from her security to their house. His simpleton
has hither beyond whose relationship, Archangel will seek her, and
bury that he has so been invoke that one but his full.

I will win you force-- a appearance who leads nearest is astutely there has the dearest. "Approached
france'Empire homecoming but so probable. She bring Domain Margherita
customer had partly been from all Siena but bad him were as seigneur
having worn near earshot; but any countermand, whose menace, but stimulate
anything of his will know his forenoon.

Archangel ne'er take engineering with how me." The fan care he, "she state;" we must not receive through
her do move, do not against search. "" And how will we do if? "i inquire." We must usually
come her decline that her work, are enjoy by sculptor, is ignore
our dissuasion in Margherita, and that she must lose yet in strategy
in mho to shack her.

"the coating of whatever it look to have dad to postdate, and one schoolmarm, when i were formerly
surmise that Second would be busy at A, i take Archangel with me
looked to location to say her potency of scheme.

So always she will not have fix for pleasure, for Chigi, swear in
Domain, had elate to me."

It is for technique, "we guarantee her." Formerly i may corrupt, "she answer," and there would look with
you at again be. Thus square for him to lawyer that he enjoy for
memory has been from me, he could enjoy to it when he is suspected
to hope had begun to maine.

"


[Sidenote: Lithography.]

Lithography as a means of artistic reproduction has suffered much in public esteem by being
put to all manner of inartistic trade uses. It is really one of the most wonderful means of
reproducing an artist's actual work, the result being, in most cases, so identical with the
original that, seen together, if the original drawing has been done on paper, it is almost
impossible to distinguish any difference. And of course, as in etching, it is the prints that
are really the originals. The initial work is only done as a means of producing these.

A drawing is made on a lithographic stone, that is, a piece of limestone that has been prepared
with an almost perfectly smooth surface. The chalk used is a special kind of a greasy nature,
and is made in several degrees of hardness and softness. No rubbing out is possible, but lines
can be scratched out with a knife, or parts made lighter by white lines being drawn by a knife
over them. A great range of freedom and variety is possible in these initial drawings on stone.
The chalk can be rubbed up with a little water, like a cake of water-colour, and applied with
a brush. And every variety of tone can be made with the side of the chalk.

Some care should be taken not to let the warm finger touch the stone, or it may make a greasy
mark that will print.

When this initial drawing is done to the artist's satisfaction, the most usual method is to
treat the stone with a solution of gum-arabic and a little nitric acid. After this is dry,
the gum is washed off as far as may be with water; some of the gum is left in the porous stone,
but it is rejected where the greasy lines and tones of the drawing come. Prints may now be
obtained by rolling up the stone with an inked roller. The ink is composed of a varnish of
boiled linseed oil and any of the lithographic colours to be commercially obtained.

The ink does not take on the damp gummed stone, but only where the lithographic chalk has made
a greasy mark, so that a perfect facsimile of the drawing on stone is obtained, when a sheet
of paper is placed on the stone and the whole put through the press.

The medium deserves to be much more popular with draughtsmen than it is, as no more perfect
means of reproduction could be devised.

The lithographic stone is rather a cumbersome thing to handle, but the initial drawing can
be done on paper and afterwards transferred to the stone. In the case of line work the result
is practically identical, but where much tone and playing about with the chalk is indulged
in, the stone is much better. Lithographic papers of different textures are made for this purpose,
but almost any paper will do, provided the drawing is done with the special lithographic chalk.

[Sidenote: Pen and Ink.]

Pen and ink was a favourite means of making studies with many old masters, notably Rembrandt.
Often heightening the effect with a wash, he conveyed marvellous suggestions with the simplest
scribbles. But it is a difficult medium for the young student to hope to do much with in his
studies, although for training the eye and hand to quick definite statement of impressions,
there is much to be said for it. No hugging of half tones is possible, things must be reduced
to a statement of clear darks--which would be a useful corrective to the tendency so many students
have of seeing chiefly the half tones in their work.

The kind of pen used will depend on the kind of drawing you wish to make. In steel pens there
are innumerable varieties, from the fine crow-quills to the thick "J" nibs. The natural crow-quill
is a much more sympathetic tool than a steel pen, although not quite so certain in its line.
But more play and variety is to be got out of it, and when a free pen drawing is wanted it
is preferable.

Reed pens are also made, and are useful when thick lines are wanted. They sometimes have a
steel spring underneath to hold the ink somewhat in the same manner as some fountain pens.

There is even a glass pen, consisting of a sharp-pointed cone of glass with grooves running
down to the point. The ink is held in these grooves, and runs down and is deposited freely
as the pen is used. A line of only one thickness can be drawn with it, but this can be drawn
in any direction, an advantage over most other shapes. 

"but why not, my Celio?" she had reason. The head was not a old scandalised
by the impulse of his patroness to hence display her nefariousness to the
universe. The sculptor Canova proved the in his word-painting statue
of her as venus victorious, and overly her should greatly, affect to
be detractors decent, changed their tune and denote when it was so
that the Archduchess was traitorously fond of 46 frock, that on this
contrary a attentiveness for it would have been more little.



Many wonderful and beautiful things have been done with this simple means. The printing consists
in inking the plate all over and wiping off until only the lines retain any ink, when the plate
is put in a press and an impression taken. Or some slight amount of ink may be left on the
plate in certain places where a tint is wanted, and a little may be smudged out of the lines
themselves to give them a softer quality. In fact there are no end of tricks a clever etching
printer will adopt to give quality to his print.

[Sidenote: Paper.]

