In my garden I spend my days; in my library I spend my nights.  My interests are divided between
my geraniums and my books.  With the flower I am in the present; with the book I am in the
past.  I go into my library, and all history unrolls before me.  I breathe the morning air
of the world while the scent of Eden's roses yet lingered in it, while it vibrated only to
the world's first brood of nightingales, and to the laugh of Eve.  I see the Pyramids building;
I hear the shoutings of the armies of Alexander; I feel the ground shake beneath the march
of Cambyses.  I sit as in a theatre,--the stage is time, the play is the play of the world.
What a spectacle it is!  What kingly pomp, what processions file past, what cities burn to
heaven, what crowds of captives are dragged at the chariot-wheels of conquerors!  I hiss, or
cry "Bravo," when the great actors come on the shaking stage.  I am a Roman emperor when I
look at a Roman coin.  I lift Homer, and I shout with Achilles in the trenches.  The silence
of the unpeopled Syrian plains, the out-comings and in-goings of the patriarchs, Abraham and
Ishmael, Isaac in the fields at eventide, Rebekah at the well, Jacob's guile, Esau's face reddened
by desert sun-heat, Joseph's splendid funeral procession,--all these things I find within the
boards of my Old Testament.  What a silence in those old books as of a half-peopled world;
what bleating of flocks; what green pastoral rest; what indubitable human existence!  Across
brawling centuries of blood and war I hear the bleating of Abraham's flocks, the tinkling of
the bells of Rebekah's camels.  O men and women so far separated yet so near, so strange yet
so well known, by what miraculous power do I know ye all!  The wit of the ancient world is
glancing and flashing there. There is Pan's pipe, there are the songs of Apollo.  Seated in
my library at night, and looking on the silent faces of my books, I am occasionally visited
by a strange sense of the supernatural.  They are not collections of printed pages, they are
ghosts.  I take one down, and it speaks with me in a tongue not now heard on earth, and of
men and things of which it alone possesses knowledge.  I call myself a solitary, but sometimes
I think I misapply the term.  No man sees more company than I do.  I travel with mightier cohorts
around me than ever did Timour or Genghis Khan on their fiery marches.  I am a sovereign in
my library, but it is the dead, not the living, that attend my levees.

The house I dwell in stands apart from the little town, and relates itself to the houses as
I do to the inhabitants.  It sees everything, but is itself unseen, or, at all events, unregarded.
My study-window looks down upon Dreamthorp like a meditative eye.  Without meaning it, I feel
I am a spy on the on-goings of the quiet place.  Around my house there is an old-fashioned
rambling garden, with close-shaven grassy plots, and fantastically clipped yews which have
gathered their darkness from a hundred summers and winters; and sun-dials in which the sun
is constantly telling his age; and statues green with neglect and the stains of the weather.
The garden I love more than any place on earth; it is a better study than the room inside the
house which is dignified by that name.  I like to pace its gravelled walks, to sit in the moss-house,
which is warm and cosey as a bird's nest, and wherein twilight dwells at noonday; to enjoy
the feast of colour spread for me in the curiously shaped floral spaces.  My garden, with its
silence and the pulses of fragrance that come and go on the airy undulations, affects me like
sweet music.  Care stops at the gates, and gazes at me wistfully through the bars.  Among my
flowers and trees Nature takes me into her own hands, and I breathe freely as the first man.
It is curious, pathetic almost, I sometimes think, how deeply seated in the human heart is
the liking for gardens and gardening.  The sickly seamstress in the narrow city lane tends
her box of sicklier mignonette.  The retired merchant is as fond of tulips as ever was Dutchman
during the famous mania.  The author finds a garden the best place to think out his thought.
In the disabled statesman every restless throb of regret or ambition is stilled when he looks
upon his blossomed apple-trees.  Is the fancy too far brought that this love for gardens is
a reminiscence haunting the race of that remote time in the world's dawn when but two persons
existed,--a gardener named Adam, and a gardener's wife called Eve?

When I walk out of my house into my garden I walk out of my habitual self, my every-day thoughts,
my customariness of joy or sorrow by which I recognise and assure myself of my own identity.
These I leave behind me for a time, as the bather leaves his garments on the beach.  This piece
of garden-ground, in extent barely a square acre, is a kingdom with its own interests, annals,
and incidents.  Something is always happening in it.  To-day is always different from yesterday.
This spring a chaffinch built a nest in one of my yew-trees.  The particular yew which the
bird did me the honour to select had been clipped long ago into a similitude of Adam, and,
in fact, went by his name.  The resemblance to a human figure was, of course, remote, but the
intention was evident.  In the black shock head of our first parent did the birds establish
their habitation.  A prettier, rounder, more comfortable nest I never saw, and many a wild
swing it got when Adam bent his back, and bobbed and shook his head when the bitter east wind
was blowing.  The nest interested me, and I visited it every day from the time the first stained
turquoise sphere was laid in the warm lining of moss and horse-hair, till, when I chirped,
four red hungry throats, eager for worm or slug, opened out of a confused mass of feathery
down.  What a hungry brood it was, to be sure, and how often father and mother were put to
it to provide them sustenance!  I went but the other day to have a peep, and, behold! brood
and parent-birds were gone, the nest was empty, Adam's visitors had departed.  In the corners
of my bedroom window I have a couple of swallows' nests, and nothing can be pleasanter in these
summer mornings than to lie in a kind of half-dream, conscious all the time of the chatterings
and endearments of the man-loving creatures.  They are beautifully restless, and are continually
darting around their nests in the window-corners.  All at once there is a great twittering
and noise; something of moment has been witnessed, something of importance has occurred in
the swallow-world,--perhaps a fly of unusual size or savour has been bolted.  Clinging with
their feet, and with heads turned charmingly aside, they chatter away with voluble sweetness,
then with a gleam of silver they are gone, and in a trice one is poising itself in the wind
above my tree-tops, while the other dips her wing as she darts after a fly through the arches
of the bridge which lets the slow stream down to the sea.  I go to the southern wall, against
which I have trained my fruit-trees, and find it a sheet of white and vermeil blossom; and
as I know it by heart, I can notice what changes take place on it day by day, what later clumps
of buds have burst into colour and odour.  What beauty in that blooming wall! the wedding-presents
of a princess ranged for admiration would not please me half so much; what delicate colouring!
what fragrance the thievish winds steal from it, without making it one odour the poorer! with
what a complacent hum the bee goes past!  My chaffinch's nest, my swallows,--twittering but
a few months ago around the kraal of the Hottentot, or chasing flies around the six solitary
pillars of Baalbec,--with their nests in the corners of my bed-room windows, my long-armed
fruit-trees flowering against my sunny wall, are not mighty pleasures, but then they are my
own, and I have not to go in search of them.  And so, like a wise man, I am content with what
I have, and make it richer by my fancy, which is as cheap as sunlight, and gilds objects quite
as prettily.  It is the coins in my own pocket, not the coins in the pockets of my neighbour,
that are of use to me.  Discontent has never a doit in her purse, and envy is the most poverty
stricken of the passions.

His own children, and the children he happens to meet on the country road, a man regards with
quite different eyes.  The strange, sunburnt brats returning from a primrose-hunt and laden
with floral spoils, may be as healthy looking, as pretty, as well-behaved, as sweet-tempered,
as neatly dressed as those that bear his name,--may be in every respect as worthy of love and
admiration; but then they have the misfortune not to belong to him.  That little fact makes
a great difference.  He knows nothing about them; his acquaintance with them is born and dead
in a moment.  I like my garden better than any other garden, for the same reason.  It is my
own.  And ownership in such a matter implies a great deal.  When I first settled here, the
ground around the house was sour moorland.  I made the walk, planted the trees, built the moss-house,
erected the sun-dial, brought home the rhododendrons and fed them with the mould which they
love so well.  I am the creator of every blossom, of every odour that comes and goes in the
wind.  The rustle of my trees is to my ear what his child's voice is to my friends the village
doctor or the village clergyman.  I know the genealogy of every tree and plant in my garden.
I watch their growth as a father watches the growth of his children.  It is curious enough,
as showing from what sources objects derive their importance, that if you have once planted
a tree for other than commercial purposes,--and in that case it is usually done by your orders
and by the hands of hirelings,--you have always in it a peculiar interest.  You care more for
it than you care for all the forests of Norway or America.  You have planted it, and that is
sufficient to make it peculiar amongst the trees of the world.  This personal interest I take
in every inmate of my garden, and this interest I have increased by sedulous watching.  But,
really, trees and plants resemble human beings in many ways.  You shake a packet of seed into
your forcing-frame; and while some grow, others pine and die, or struggle on under hereditary
defect, showing indifferent blossoms late in the season, and succumb at length.  So far as
one could discover, the seeds were originally alike,--they received the same care, they were
fed by the same moisture and sunlight; but of no two of them are the issues the same.  Do I
not see something of this kind in the world of men, and can I not please myself with quaint
analogies?  These plants and trees have their seasons of illness and their sudden deaths. Your
best rose-tree, whose fame has spread for twenty miles, is smitten by some fell disease; its
leaves take an unhealthy hue, and in a day or so it is sapless,--dead.  A tree of mine, the
first last spring to put out its leaves, and which wore them till November, made this spring
no green response to the call of the sunshine.  Marvelling what ailed it, I went to examine,
and found it had been dead for months; and yet during the winter there had been no frost to
speak of, and more than its brothers and sisters it was in no way exposed.  These are the tragedies
of the garden, and they shadow forth other tragedies nearer us.  In everything we find a kind
of dim mirror of ourselves.  Sterne, if placed in a desert, said he would love a tree; and
I can fancy such a love would not be altogether unsatisfying.  Love of trees and plants is
safe.  You do not run risk in your affections.  They are my children, silent and beautiful,
untouched by any passion, unpolluted by evil tempers; for me they leaf and flower themselves.
In autumn they put off their rich apparel, but next year they are back again, with dresses
fair as ever; and--one can extract a kind of fanciful bitterness from the thought--should I
be laid in my grave in winter, they would all in spring be back again, with faces a bright
and with breaths as sweet, missing me not at all.  Ungrateful, the one I am fondest of would
blossom very prettily if planted on the soil that covers me,--where my dog would die, where
my best friend would perhaps raise an inscription!

I like flowering plants, but I like trees more,--for the reason, I suppose, that they are slower
in coming to maturity, are longer lived, that you can become better acquainted with them, and
that in the course of years memories and associations hang as thickly on their boughs as do
leaves in summer or fruits in autumn.  I do not wonder that great earls value their trees,
and never, save in direst extremity, lift upon them the axe.  Ancient descent and glory are
made audible in the proud murmur of immemorial woods.  There are forests in England whose leafy
noises may be shaped into Agincourt and the names of the battle-fields of the Roses; oaks that
dropped their acorns in the year that Henry VIII. held his Field of the Cloth of Gold, and
beeches that gave shelter to the deer when Shakspeare was a boy.  There they stand, in sun
and shower, the broad-armed witnesses of perished centuries; and sore must his need be who
commands a woodland massacre.  A great English tree, the rings of a century in its boll, is
one of the noblest of natural objects; and it touches the imagination no less than the eye,
for it grows out of tradition and a past order of things, and is pathetic with the suggestions
of dead generations.  Trees waving a colony of rooks in the wind to-day, are older than historic
lines. Trees are your best antiques.  There are cedars on Lebanon which the axes of Solomon
spared, they say, when he was busy with his Temple; there are olives on Olivet that might have
rustled in the ears of the Master and the Twelve; there are oaks in Sherwood which have tingled
to the horn of Robin Hood, and have listened to Maid Marian's laugh. Think of an existing Syrian
cedar which is nearly as old as history, which was middle-aged before the wolf suckled Romulus!
Think of an existing English elm in whose branches the heron was reared which the hawks of
Saxon Harold killed!  If you are a notable, and wish to be remembered, better plant a tree
than build a city or strike a medal; it will outlast both.

My trees are young enough, and if they do not take me away into the past, they project me into
the future.  When I planted them, I knew I was performing an act, the issues of which would
outlast me long.  My oaks are but saplings; but what undreamed-of English kings will they not
outlive!  I pluck my apples, my pears, my plums; and I know that from the same branches other
hands will pluck apples, pears, and plums when this body of mine will have shrunk into a pinch
of dust.  I cannot dream with what year these hands will date their letters.  A man does not
plant a tree for himself, he plants it for posterity.  And, sitting idly in the sunshine, I
think at times of the unborn people who will, to some small extent, be indebted to me.  Remember
me kindly, ye future men and women!  When I am dead, the juice of my apples will foam and spurt
in your cider-presses, my plums will gather for you their misty bloom; and that any of your
youngsters should be choked by one of my cherry-stones, merciful Heaven forfend!

After an outburst, there is a truce between the friends for a while, till it is broken by theological
battle over the age of the world, or some other the like remote matter, which seems important
to me only in so far as it affords ground for disputation.  These truces are broken sometimes
by the doctor, sometimes by the clergyman.  T'other evening the doctor and myself were sitting
in the garden, smoking each a meditative pipe.  Dreamthorp lay below, with its old castle and
its lake, and its hundred wreaths of smoke floating upward into the sunset. Where we sat, the
voices of children playing in the street could hardly reach us.  Suddenly a step was heard
on the gravel, and the next moment the clergyman appeared, as it seemed to me, with a peculiar
airiness of aspect, and the light of a humourous satisfaction in his eye.  After the usual
salutations, he took his seat beside us, lifted a pipe of the kind called "churchwarden" from
the box on the ground, filled and lighted it, and for a little while we were silent all three.
The clergyman then drew an old magazine from his side pocket, opened it at a place where the
leaf had been carefully turned down, and drew my attention to a short poem which had for its
title, "Vanity Fair," imprinted in German text.  This poem he desired me to read aloud. Laying
down my pipe carefully beside me, I complied with his request. It ran thus; for as after my
friends went it was left behind, I have written it down word for word:--

  "The world-old Fair of Vanity
    Since Bunyan's day has grown discreeter
  No more it flocks in crowds to see
    A blazing Paul or Peter.

  "Not that a single inch it swerves
    From hate of saint or love of sinner,
  But martyrs shock aesthetic nerves,
    And spoil the goût of dinner.

  "Raise but a shout, or flaunt a scarf,--
    Its mobs are all agog and flying;
  They 'll cram the levee of a dwarf,
    And leave a Haydon dying.

  "They live upon each newest thing,
    They fill their idle days with seeing;
  Fresh news of courtier and of king
    Sustains their empty being.

  "The statelier, from year to year,
    Maintain their comfortable stations
  At the wide windows that o'erpeer
    The public square of nations;

  "While through it heaves, with cheers and groans,
    Harsh drums of battle in the distance,
  Frightful with gallows, ropes, and thrones,
    The medley of existence;

  "Amongst them tongues are wagging much:
    Hark to the philosophic sisters!
  To his, whose keen satiric touch,
    Like the Medusa, blisters!

  "All things are made for talk,--St. Paul;
    The pattern of an altar cushion;
  A Paris wild with carnival,
    Or red with revolution.

  "And much they knew, that sneering crew,
    Of things above the world and under:
  They search'd the hoary deep; they knew
    The secret of the thunder;

  "The pure white arrow of the light
    They split into its colours seven;
  They weighed the sun; they dwelt, like night,
    Among the stars of heaven;

  "They 've found out life and death,--the first
    Is known but to the upper classes;
  The second, pooh! 't is at the worst
    A dissolution into gases.

  "And vice and virtue are akin,
    As black and white from Adam issue,--
  One flesh, one blood, though sheeted in
    A different coloured tissue.

  "Their science groped from star to star;--
    But then herself found nothing greater.
  What wonder?--in a Leyden jar
    They bottled the Creator.

  "Fires fluttered on their lightning-rod;
    They cleared the human mind from error;
  They emptied heaven of its God,
    And Tophet of its terror.

  "Better the savage in his dance
    Than these acute and syllogistic!
  Better a reverent ignorance
    Than knowledge atheistic!

  "Have they dispelled one cloud that lowers
    So darkly on the human creature?
  They with their irreligious powers
    Have subjugated nature.

  "But, as a satyr wins the charms
    Of maiden in a forest hearted,
  He finds, when clasped within his arms,
    The outraged soul departed."

  When I had done reading these verses,
he clergyman glanced slyly along to see the effect of his shot.  The
doctor drew two or three hurried whiffs, gave a huge grunt of scorn,
then, turning sharply, asked, "What is 'a reverent ignorance'?  What is
'a knowledge atheistic'?"  The clergyman, skewered by the sudden
question, wriggled a little, and then began to explain,--with no great
heart, however, for he had had his little joke out, and did not care to
carry it further.  The doctor listened for a little, and then, laying
down his pipe, said, with some heat, "It won't do.  'Reverent
ignorance' and such trash is a mere jingle of words; that you know as
well as I.  You stumbled on these verses, and brought them up here to
throw them at me.  They don't harm me in the least, I can assure you.
There is no use," continued the doctor, mollifying at the sight of his
friend's countenance, and seeing how the land lay,--"there is no use
speaking to our incurious, solitary friend here, who could bask
comfortably in sunshine for a century, without once inquiring whence
came the light and heat.  But let me tell you," lifting his pipe and
shaking it across me at the clergyman, "that science has done services
to your cloth which have not always received the most grateful
acknowledgments.  Why, man," here he began to fill his pipe slowly,
"the theologian and the man of science, although they seem to diverge
and lose sight of each other, are all the while working to one end.
Two exploring parties in Australia set out from one point; the one goes
east, and the other west.  They lose sight of each other, they know
nothing of one another's whereabouts; but they are all steering to one
point,"--the sharp spirt of a fusee on the garden-seat came in here,
followed by an aromatic flavour in the air,--"and when they do meet,
which they are certain to do in the long run,"--here the doctor put the
pipe in his mouth, and finished his speech with it there,--"the figure
of the continent has become known, and may be set down in maps.  The
exploring parties have started long ago.  What folly in the one to
pooh-pooh or be suspicious of the exertions of the other.  That party
deserves the greatest credit which meets the other more than half
way."--"Bravo!" cried the clergyman, when the doctor had finished his
oration; "I don't know that I could fill your place at the bedside, but
I am quite sure that you could fill mine in the pulpit."--"I am not
sure that the congregation would approve of the change,--I might
disturb their slumbers;" and, pleased with his retort, his cheery laugh
rose through a cloud of smoke into the sunset.

Heigho! mine is a dull life, I fear, when this little affair of the doctor and the clergyman
takes the dignity of an incident, and seems worthy of being recorded.

The doctor was anxious that, during the following winter, a short course of lectures should
be delivered in the village schoolroom, and in my garden he held several conferences on the
matter with the clergyman and myself.  It was arranged finally that the lectures should be
delivered, and that one of them should be delivered by me.  I need not say how pleasant was
the writing out of my discourse, and how the pleasure was heightened by the slightest thrill
of alarm at my own temerity.  My lecture I copied out in my most careful hand, and, as I had
it by heart, I used to declaim passages of it ensconced in my moss-house, or concealed behind
my shrubbery trees.  In these places I tried it all over, sentence by sentence.  The evening
came at last which had been looked forward to for a couple of months or more.  The small schoolroom
was filled by forms on which the people sat, and a small reading-desk, with a tumbler of water
on it, at the further end, waited for me.  When I took my seat, the couple of hundred eyes
struck into me a certain awe.  I discovered in a moment why the orator of the hustings is so
deferential to the mob.  You may despise every individual member of your audience, but these
despised individuals, in their capacity of a collective body, overpower you.  I addressed the
people with the most unfeigned respect.  When I began, too, I found what a dreadful thing it
is to hear your own voice inhabiting the silence.  You are related to your voice, and yet divorced
from it.  It is you, and yet a thing apart.  All the time it is going on, you can be critical
as to its tone, volume, cadence, and other qualities, as if it was the voice of a stranger.
Gradually, however, I got accustomed to my voice, and the respect which I entertained for my
hearers so far relaxed that I was at last able to look them in the face.  I saw the doctor
and the clergyman smile encouragingly, and my half-witted gardener looking up at me with open
mouth, and the atrabilious confectioner clap his hands, which made me take refuge in my paper
again.  I got to the end of my task without any remarkable incident, if I except the doctor's
once calling out "hear" loudly, which brought the heart into my mouth, and blurred half a sentence.
When I sat down, there were the usual sounds of approbation, and the confectioner returned
thanks, in the name of the audience.

ON VAGABONDS

Call it oddity, eccentricity, humour, or what you please, it is evident that the special flavour
of mind or manner which, independently of fortune, station, or profession, sets a man apart
and makes him distinguishable from his fellows, and which gives the charm of picturesqueness
to society, is fast disappearing from amongst us.  A man may count the odd people of his acquaintance
on his fingers; and it is observable that these odd people are generally well stricken in years.
They belong more to the past generation than to the present. Our young men are terribly alike.
For these many years back, the young gentlemen I have had the fortune to encounter are clever,
knowing, selfish, disagreeable; the young ladies are of one pattern, like minted sovereigns
of the same reign,--excellent gold, I have no doubt, but each bearing the same awfully proper
image and superscription.  There are no blanks in the matrimonial lottery nowadays, but the
prizes are all of a value, and there is but one kind of article given for the ticket.  Courtship
is an absurdity and a sheer waste of time.  If a man could but close his eyes in a ball-room,
dash into a bevy of muslin beauties, carry off the fair one that accident gives to his arms,
his raid would be as reasonable and as likely to produce happiness as the more ordinary methods
of procuring a spouse.  If a man has to choose one guinea out of a bag containing one hundred
and fifty, what can he do?  What wonderful wisdom can he display in his choice?  There is no
appreciable difference of value in the golden pieces.  The latest coined are a little fresher,
that's all.  An act of uniformity, with heavy penalties for recusants, seems to have been passed
upon the English race.  That we can quite well account for this state of things, does not make
the matter better, does not make it the less our duty to fight against it.  We are apt to be
told that men are too busy and women too accomplished for humour of speech or originality of
character or manner.  In the truth of this lies the pity of it.  If, with the exceptions of
hedges that divide fields, and streams that run as marches between farms, every inch of soil
were drained, ploughed, manured, and under that improved cultivation rushing up into astonishing
wheaten and oaten crops, enriching tenant and proprietor, the aspect of the country would be
decidedly uninteresting, and would present scant attraction to the man riding or walking through
it.  In such a world the tourists would be few.  Personally, I should detest a world all red
and ruled with the ploughshare in spring, all covered with harvest in autumn.  I wish a little
variety.  I desiderate moors and barren places: the copse where you can flush the woodcock;
the warren where, when you approach, you can see the twinkle of innumerable rabbit tails; and,
to tell the truth, would not feel sorry although Reynard himself had a hole beneath the wooded
bank, even if the demands of his rising family cost Farmer Yellowleas a fat capon or two in
the season.  The fresh, rough, heathery parts of human nature, where the air is freshest, and
where the linnets sing, is getting encroached upon by cultivated fields.  Every one is making
himself and herself useful. Every one is producing something.  Everybody is clever.  Everybody
is a philanthropist.  I don't like it.  I love a little eccentricity.  I respect honest prejudices.
I admire foolish enthusiasm in a young head better than a wise scepticism.

I have advertised myself to speak of vagabonds, and I must explain what I mean by the term.
We all know what was the doom of the first child born of man, and it is needless for me to
say that I do not wish the spirit of Cain more widely diffused amongst my fellow-creatures.
By vagabonds, I do not mean a tramp or a gipsy, or a thimble-rigger, or a brawler who is brought
up with a black eye before a magistrate in the morning.  The vagabond as I have him in my mind's
eye, and whom I dearly love, comes out of quite a different mould.  The man I speak of, seldom,
it is true, attains to the dignity of a churchwarden; he is never found sitting at a reformed
town-council board; he has a horror of public platforms; he never by any chance heads a subscription
list with a donation of fifty pounds.  On the other hand, he is very far from being a "ne'er-do-weel,"
as the Scotch phrase it, or an imprudent person.  He does not play at "Aunt Sally" on a public
race-course, he does not wrench knockers from the doors of slumbering citizens; he has never
seen the interior of a police-cell.  It is quite true, he has a peculiar way of looking at
many things.  If, for instance, he is brought up with cousin Milly, and loves her dearly, and
the childish affection grows up and strengthens in the woman's heart, and there is a fair chance
for them fighting the world side by side, he marries her without too curiously considering
whether his income will permit him to give dinner-parties, and otherwise fashionably see his
friends.  Very imprudent, no doubt.  But you cannot convince my vagabond.  With the strangest
logical twist, which seems natural to him, he conceives that he marries for his own sake, and
not for the sake of his acquaintances, and that the possession of a loving heart and a conscience
void of reproach is worth, at any time an odd sovereign in his pocket.  The vagabond is not
a favourite with the respectable classes.  He is particularly feared by mammas who have daughters
to dispose of,--not that he is a bad son, or likely to prove a bad husband or a treacherous
friend; but somehow gold does not stick to his fingers as it does to the fingers of some men.
He is regardless of appearances.  He chooses his friends neither for their fine houses nor
their rare wines, but for their humours, their goodness of heart, their capacities of making
a joke and of seeing one, and for their abilities, unknown often as the woodland violet, but
not the less sweet for obscurity.  As a consequence, his acquaintance is miscellaneous, and
he is often seen at other places than rich men's feasts.  I do believe he is a gainer by reason
of his vagrant ways.  He comes in contact with the queer corners and the out-of-the-way places
of human life.  He knows more of our common nature, just as the man who walks through a country,
and who strikes off the main road now and then to visit a ruin, or a legendary cairn of stones,
who drops into village inns, and talks with the people he meets on the road, becomes better
acquainted with it than the man who rolls haughtily along the turnpike in a carriage and four.
We lose a great deal by foolish hauteur.  No man is worth much who has not a touch of the vagabond
in him.  Could I have visited London thirty years ago, I would rather have spent an hour with
Charles Lamb than with any other of its residents.  He was a fine specimen of the vagabond,
as I conceive him.  His mind was as full of queer nooks and tortuous passages as any mansion-house
of Elizabeth's day or earlier, where the rooms are cosey, albeit a little low in the roof;
where dusty stained lights are falling on old oaken panellings; where every bit of furniture
has a reverent flavour of ancientness; where portraits of noble men and women, all dead long
ago, are hanging on the walls; and where a black-letter Chaucer with silver clasps is lying
open on a seat in the window.  There was nothing modern about him.  The garden of his mind
did not flaunt in gay parterres; it resembled those that Cowley and Evelyn delighted in, with
clipped trees, and shaven lawns, and stone satyrs, and dark, shadowing yews, and a sun-dial,
with a Latin motto sculptured on it, standing at the farther end.  Lamb was the slave of quip
and whimsey; he stuttered out puns to the detriment of all serious and improving conversation,
and twice or so in the year he was overtaken in liquor.  Well, in spite of these things, perhaps
on account of these things, I love his memory.  For love and charity ripened in that nature
as peaches ripen on the wall that fronts the sun.  Although he did not blow his trumpet in
the corners of the streets, he was tried as few men are, and fell not.  He jested, that he
might not weep.  He wore a martyr's heart beneath his suit of motley. And only years after
his death, when to admiration or censure he was alike insensible, did the world know his story
and that of his sister Mary.

Ah, me! what a world this was to live in two or three centuries ago, when it was getting itself
discovered--when the sunset gave up America, when a steel hand had the spoiling of Mexico and
Peru!  Then were the "Arabian Nights" commonplace, enchantments a matter of course, and romance
the most ordinary thing in the world.  Then man was courting Nature; now he has married her.
Every mystery is dissipated.  The planet is familiar as the trodden pathway running between
towns.  We no longer gaze wistfully to the west, dreaming of the Fortunate Isles.  We seek
our wonders now on the ebbed sea-shore; we discover our new worlds with the microscope.  Yet,
for all that time has brought and taken away, I am glad to know that the vagabond sleeps in
our blood, and awakes now and then.  Overlay human nature as you please, here and there some
bit of rock, or mound of aboriginal soil, will crop out with the wild-flowers growing upon
it, sweetening the air.  When the boy throws his Delectus or his Euclid aside, and takes passionately
to the reading of "Robinson Crusoe" or Bruce's "African Travels," do not shake your head despondingly
over him and prophesy evil issues.  Let the wild hawk try its wings.  It will be hooded, and
will sit quietly enough on the falconer's perch ere long.  Let the wild horse career over its
boundless pampas; the jerk of the lasso will bring it down soon enough. Soon enough will the
snaffle in the mouth and the spur of the tamer subdue the high spirit to the bridle, or the
carriage-trace.  Perhaps not; and, if so, the better for all parties.  Once more there will
be a new man and new deeds in the world.  For Genius is a vagabond, Art is a vagabond, Enterprise
is a vagabond.  Vagabonds have moulded the world into its present shape; they have made the
houses in which we dwell, the roads on which we ride and drive, the very laws that govern us.
Respectable people swarm in the track of the vagabond as rooks in the track of the ploughshare.
Respectable people do little in the world except storing wine-cellars and amassing fortunes
for the benefit of spendthrift heirs.  Respectable well-to-do Grecians shook their heads over
Leonidas and his three hundred when they went down to Thermopylae. Respectable Spanish churchmen
with shaven crowns scouted the dream of Columbus.  Respectable German folks attempted to dissuade
Luther from appearing before Charles and the princes and electors of the Empire, and were scandalised
when he declared that "Were there as many devils in Worms as there were tiles on the house-tops,
still would he on." Nature makes us vagabonds, the world makes us respectable.

In the fine sense in which I take the word, the English are the greatest vagabonds on the earth,
and it is the healthiest trait in their national character.  The first fine day in spring awakes
the gipsy in the blood of the English workman, and incontinently he "babbles of green fields."
On the English gentleman lapped, in the most luxurious civilisation, and with the thousand
powers and resources of wealth at his command, descends oftentimes a fierce unrest, a Bedouin-like
horror of cities and the cry of the money-changer, and in a month the fiery dust rises in the
track of his desert steed, or in the six months' polar midnight he hears the big wave clashing
on the icy shore.  The close presence of the sea feeds the Englishman's restlessness.  She
takes possession of his heart like some fair capricious mistress.  Before the boy awakes to
the beauty of cousin Mary, he is crazed by the fascinations of ocean.  With her voices of ebb
and flow she weaves her siren song round the Englishman's coasts day and night.  Nothing that
dwells on land can keep from her embrace the boy who has gazed upon her dangerous beauty, and
who has heard her singing songs of foreign shores at the foot of the summer crag.  It is well
that in the modern gentleman the fierce heart of the Berserker lives yet.  The English are
eminently a nation of vagabonds.  The sun paints English faces with all the colours of his
climes.  The Englishman is ubiquitous.  He shakes with fever and ague in the swampy valley
of the Mississippi; he is drowned in the sand pillars as they waltz across the desert on the
purple breath of the simoom; he stands on the icy scalp of Mont Blanc; his fly falls in the
sullen Norwegian fiords; he invades the solitude of the Cape lion; he rides on his donkey through
the uncausewayed Cairo streets.  That wealthy people, under a despotism, should be travellers
seems a natural thing enough. It is a way of escape from the rigours of their condition.  But
that England--where activity rages so keenly and engrosses every class; where the prizes of
Parliament, literature, commerce, the bar, the church, are hungered and thirsted after; where
the stress and intensity of life ages a man before his time; where so many of the noblest break
down in harness hardly halfway to the goal--should, year after year, send off swarms of men
to roam the world, and to seek out danger for the mere thrill and enjoyment of it, is significant
of the indomitable pluck and spirit of the race.  There is scant danger that the rust of sloth
will eat into the virtue of English steel.  The English do the hard work and the travelling
of the world.  The least revolutionary nation of Europe, the one with the greatest temptations
to stay at home, with the greatest faculty for work, with perhaps the sincerest regard for
wealth, is also the most nomadic.  How is this?  It is because they are a nation of vagabonds;
they have the "hungry heart" that one of their poets speaks about.

There is an amiability about the genuine vagabond which takes captive the heart.  We do not
love a man for his respectability, his prudence and foresight in business, his capacity of
living within his income, or his balance at his banker's.  We all admit that prudence is an
admirable virtue, and occasionally lament, about Christmas, when bills fall in, that we do
not inherit it in a greater degree.  But we speak about it in quite a cool way.  It does not
touch us with enthusiasm. If a calculating-machine had a hand to wring, it would find few to
wring it warmly.  The things that really move liking in human beings are the gnarled nodosities
of character, vagrant humours, freaks of generosity, some little unextinguishable spark of
the aboriginal savage, some little sweet savour of the old Adam.  It is quite wonderful how
far simple generosity and kindliness of heart go in securing affection; and, when these exist,
what a host of apologists spring up for faults and vices even.  A country squire goes recklessly
to the dogs; yet if he has a kind word for his tenant when he meets him, a frank greeting for
the rustic beauty when she drops a courtesy to him on the highway, he lives for a whole generation
in an odour of sanctity.  If he had been a disdainful, hook-nosed prime minister who had carried
his country triumphantly through some frightful crisis of war, these people would, perhaps,
never have been aware of the fact; and most certainly never would have tendered him a word
of thanks, even if they had.  When that important question, "Which is the greatest foe to the
public weal--the miser or the spendthrift?" is discussed at the artisans' debating club, the
spendthrift has all the eloquence on his side--the miser all the votes.  The miser's advocate
is nowhere, and he pleads the cause of his client with only half his heart.  In the theatre,
Charles Surface is applauded, and Joseph Surface is hissed. The novel-reader's affection goes
out to Tom Jones, his hatred to Blifil.  Joseph Surface and Blifil are scoundrels, it is true;
but deduct the scoundrelism, let Joseph be but a stale proverb-monger and Blifil a conceited
prig, and the issue remains the same.  Good humour and generosity carry the day with the popular
heart all the world over. Tom Jones and Charles Surface are not vagabonds to my taste.  They
were shabby fellows both, and were treated a great deal too well.  But there are other vagabonds
whom I love, and whom I do well to love.  With what affection do I follow little Ishmael and
his broken-hearted mother out into the great and terrible wilderness, and see them faint beneath
the ardours of the sunlight!  And we feel it to be strict poetic justice and compensation that
the lad so driven forth from human tents should become the father of wild Arabian men, to whom
the air of cities is poison, who work without any tool, and on whose limbs no conqueror has
ever yet been able to rivet shackle or chain.  Then there are Abraham's grandchildren, Jacob
and Esau--the former, I confess, no favourite of mine.  His, up at least to his closing years,
when parental affection and strong sorrow softened him, was a character not amiable.  He lacked
generosity, and had too keen an eye on his own advancement.  He did not inherit the noble strain
of his ancestors.  He was a prosperous man; yet in spite of his increase in flocks and herds,--in
spite of his vision of the ladder, with the angels ascending and descending upon it,--in spite
of the success of his beloved son,--in spite of the weeping and lamentation of the Egyptians
at his death,--in spite of his splendid funeral, winding from the city by the pyramid and the
sphinx,--in spite of all these things, I would rather have been the hunter Esau, with birthright
filched away, bankrupt in the promise, rich only in fleet foot and keen spear; for he carried
into the wilds with him an essentially noble nature--no brother with his mess of pottage could
mulct him of that.  And he had a fine revenge; for when Jacob, on his journey, heard that his
brother was near with four hundred men, and made division of his flocks and herds, his man-servants
and maid-servants, impetuous as a swollen hill-torrent, the fierce son of the desert, baked
red with Syrian light, leaped down upon him, and fell on his neck and wept.  And Esau said,
"What meanest thou by all this drove which I met?" and Jacob said, "These are to find grace
in the sight of my lord;" then Esau said, "I have enough, my brother, keep that thou hast unto
thyself."  O mighty prince, didst thou remember thy mother's guile, the skins upon thy hands
and neck, and the lie put upon the patriarch, as, blind with years, he sat up in his bed snuffing
the savory meat?  An ugly memory, I should fancy!

Commend me to Shakspeare's vagabonds, the most delightful in the world!
His sweet-blooded and liberal nature blossomed into all fine
generosities as naturally as an apple-bough into pink blossoms and
odours.
  I would with such perfection govern, sir,
  To excel the golden age."

What think you of a world after that pattern?  "As You Like it" is a vagabond play, and, verily,
if there waved in any wind that blows a forest peopled like Arden's, with an exiled king drawing
the sweetest, humanest lessons from misfortune; a melancholy Jacques, stretched by the river
bank, moralising on the bleeding deer; a fair Rosalind, chanting her saucy cuckoo-song; fools
like Touchstone--not like those of our acquaintance, my friends; and the whole place, from
centre to circumference, filled with mighty oak bolls, all carven with lovers' names,--if such
a forest waved in wind, I say, I would, be my worldly prospects what they might, pack up at
once, and cast in my lot with that vagabond company.  For there I should find more gallant
courtesies, finer sentiments, completer innocence and happiness, more wit and wisdom, than
I am like to do here even, though I search for them from shepherd's cot to king's palace. 
Just to think how those people lived!  Carelessly as the blossoming trees, happily as the singing
birds, time measured only by the patter of the acorn on the fruitful soil!  A world without
debtor or creditor, passing rich, yet with never a doit in its purse, with no sordid care,
no regard for appearances; nothing to occupy the young but love-making, nothing to occupy the
old but perusing the "sermons in stones" and the musical wisdom which dwells in "running brooks"!
But Arden forest draws its sustenance from a poet's brain: the light that sleeps on its leafy
pillows is "the light that never was on sea or shore."  We but please and tantalise ourselves
with beautiful dreams.

The children of the brain become to us actual existences, more actual, indeed, than the people
who impinge upon us in the street, or who live next door.  We are more intimate with Shakspeare's
men and women than we are with our contemporaries, and they are, on the whole, better company.
They are more beautiful in form and feature, and they express themselves in a way that the
most gifted strive after in vain.  What if Shakspeare's people could walk out of the play-books
and settle down upon some spot of earth and conduct life there?  There would be found humanity's
whitest wheat, the world's unalloyed gold.  The very winds could not visit the place roughly.
No king's court could present you such an array.  Where else could we find a philosopher like
Hamlet? a friend like Antonio? a witty fellow like Mercutio? where else Imogen's piquant's
face? Portia's gravity and womanly sweetness? Rosalind's true heart and silvery laughter? Cordelia's
beauty of holiness?  These would form the centre of the court, but the purlieus, how many-coloured!
Malvolio would walk mincingly in the sunshine there; Autolycus would filch purses.  Sir Andrew
Aguecheek and Sir Toby Belch would be eternal boon companions.  And as Falstaff sets out homeward
from the tavern, the portly knight leading the revellers like a three-decker a line of frigates,
they are encountered by Dogberry, who summons them to stand and answer to the watch as they
are honest men.  If Mr. Dickens's characters were gathered together, they would constitute
a town populous enough to send a representative to Parliament.  Let us enter. The style of
architecture is unparalleled.  There is an individuality about the buildings.  In some obscure
way they remind one of human faces.  There are houses sly-looking, houses wicked-looking, houses
pompous-looking.  Heaven bless us! what a rakish pump! what a self-important town-hall! what
a hard-hearted prison!  The dead walls are covered with advertisements of Mr. Sleary's circus.
Newman Noggs comes shambling along.  Mr. and the Misses Pecksniff come sailing down the sunny
side of the street.  Miss Mercy's parasol is gay; papa's neck-cloth is white, and terribly
starched.  Dick Swiveller leans against a wall, his hands in his pockets, a primrose held between
his teeth, contemplating the opera of Punch and Judy, which is being conducted under the management
of Messrs. Codlings and Short.  You turn a corner and you meet the coffin of little Paul Dombey
borne along. Who would have thought of encountering a funeral in this place?  In the afternoon
you hear the rich tones of the organ from Miss La Creevy's first floor, for Tom Pinch has gone
to live there now, and as you know all the people as you know your own brothers and sisters,
and consequently require no letters of introduction, you go up and talk with the dear old fellow
about all his friends and your friends, and towards evening he takes your arm, and you walk
out to see poor Nelly's grave--a place which he visits often, and which he dresses with flowers
with his own hands.  I know this is the idlest dreaming, but all of us have a sympathy with
the creatures of the drama and the novel.  Around the hardest cark and toil lies the imaginative
world of the poets and romancists, and thither we sometimes escape to snatch a mouthful of
serener air.  There our best lost feelings have taken a human shape. We suppose that boyhood
with its impulses and enthusiasms has subsided with the gray cynical man whom we have known
these many years.  Not a bit of it.  It has escaped into the world of the poet, and walks a
love-flushed Romeo in immortal youth.  We suppose that the Mary of fifty years since, the rose-bud
of a girl that crazed our hearts, blossomed into the spouse of Jenkins, the stockbroker, and
is now a grandmother.  Not at all.  She is Juliet leaning from the balcony, or Portia talking
on the moonlight lawns at Belmont.  There walk the shadows of our former selves.  All that
Time steals he takes thither; and to live in that world is to live in our lost youth, our lost
generosities, illusions, and romances.

In middle-class life, and in the professions, when a standard or ideal is tacitly set up, to
which every member is expected to conform on pain of having himself talked about, and wise
heads shaken over him, the quick feelings of the vagabond are not frequently found.  Yet, thanks
to Nature, who sends her leafage and flowerage up through all kinds of débris, and who takes
a blossomy possession of ruined walls and desert places, it is never altogether dead!  And
of vagabonds, not the least delightful is he who retains poetry and boyish spirits beneath
the crust of a profession.  Mr. Carlyle commends "central fire," and very properly commends
it most when "well covered in."  In the case of a professional man, this "central fire" does
not manifest itself in wasteful explosiveness, but in secret genial heat, visible in fruits
of charity and pleasant humour.  The physician who is a humourist commends himself doubly to
a sick-bed.  His patients are as much indebted for their cure to his smile, his voice, and
a certain irresistible healthfulness that surrounds him, as they are to his skill and his prescriptions.
The lawyer who is a humourist is a man of ten thousand. How easily the worldly-wise face, puckered
over a stiff brief, relaxes into the lines of laughter.  He sees many an evil side of human
nature, he is familiar with slanders and injustice, all kinds of human bitterness and falsity;
but neither his hand nor his heart becomes "imbued with that it works in," and the little admixture
of acid, inevitable from his circumstances and mode of life, but heightens the flavour of his
humour.  But of all humourists of the professional class, I prefer the clergyman, especially
if he is well stricken in years, and has been anchored all his life in a country charge.  He
is none of your loud wits.  There is a lady-like delicacy in his mind, a constant sense of
his holy office, which warn him off dangerous subjects.  This reserve, however, does but improve
the quality of his mirth.  What his humour loses in boldness, it gains in depth and slyness.
And as the good man has seldom the opportunity of making a joke, or of procuring an auditor
who can understand one, the dewy glitter of his eyes, as you sit opposite him, and his heartfelt
enjoyment of the matter in hand, are worth going a considerable way to witness.  It is not,
however, in the professions that the vagabond is commonly found.  Over these that awful and
ubiquitous female, Mrs. Grundy--at once Fate, Nemesis, and Fury--presides.  The glare of her
eye is professional danger, the pointing of her finger is professional death.  When she utters
a man's name, he is lost.  The true vagabond is to be met with in other walks of life,--among
actors, poets, painters. These may grow in any way their nature directs.  They are not required
to conform to any traditional pattern.  With regard to the respectabilities and the "minor
morals," the world permits them to be libertines.  Besides, it is a temperament peculiarly
sensitive, or generous, or enjoying, which at the beginning impels these to their special pursuits;
and that temperament, like everything else in the world, strengthens with use, and grows with
what it feeds on.  We look upon an actor, sitting amongst ordinary men and women, with a certain
curiosity,--we regard him as a creature from another planet, almost. His life and his world
are quite different from ours.  The orchestra, the foot-lights, and the green baize curtain,
divide us.  He is a monarch half his time--his entrance and his exit proclaimed by flourish
of trumpet.  He speaks in blank verse, is wont to take his seat at gilded banquets, to drink
nothing out of a pasteboard goblet.  The actor's world has a history amusing to read, and lines
of noble and splendid traditions, stretching back to charming Nelly's time, and earlier.  The
actor has strange experiences.  He sees the other side of the moon.  We roar at Grimaldi's
funny face: he sees the lines of pain in it.  We hear Romeo wish to be "a glove upon that hand
that he might touch that cheek:" three minutes afterwards he beholds Romeo refresh himself
with a pot of porter.  We see the Moor, who "loved not wisely, but too well," smother Desdemona
with the nuptial bolster: he sees them sit down to a hot supper.  We always think of the actor
as on the stage: he always thinks of us as in the boxes.  In justice to the poets of the present
day, it may be noticed that they have improved on their brethren in Johnson's time, who were,
according to Lord Macaulay, hunted by bailiffs and familiar with sponging-houses, and who,
when hospitably entertained, were wont to disturb the household of the entertainer by roaring
for hot punch at four o'clock in the morning. Since that period the poets have improved in
the decencies of life: they wear broadcloth, and settle their tailors' accounts even as other
men.  At this present moment Her Majesty's poets are perhaps the most respectable of Her Majesty's
subjects.  They are all teetotallers; if they sin, it is in rhyme, and then only to point a
moral.  In past days the poet flew from flower to flower, gathering his honey; but he bore
a sting, too, as the rude hand that touched him could testily.  He freely gathers his honey
as of old, but the satiric sting has been taken away. He lives at peace with all men--his brethren
excepted.  About the true poet still there is something of the ancient spirit,--the old "flash
and outbreak of the fiery mind,"--the old enthusiasm and dash of humourous eccentricity.  But
he is fast disappearing from the catalogue of vagabonds--fast getting commonplace, I fear.
Many people suspect him of dulness.  Besides, such a crowd of well-meaning, amiable, most respectable
men have broken down of late years the pales of Parnassus, and become squatters on the sacred
mount, that the claim of poets to be a peculiar people is getting disallowed.  Never in this
world's history were they so numerous; and although some people deny that they are poets, few
are cantankerous enough or intrepid enough to assert that they are vagabonds.  The painter
is the most agreeable of vagabonds. His art is a pleasant one: it demands some little manual
exertion, and it takes him at times into the open air.  It is pleasant, too, in this, that
lines and colours are so much more palpable than words, and the appeal of his work to his practised
eye has some satisfaction in it. He knows what he is about.  He does not altogether lose his
critical sense, as the poet does, when familiarity stales his subject, and takes the splendour
out of his images.  Moreover, his work is more profitable than the poet's.  I suppose there
are just as few great painters at the present day as there are great poets; yet the yearly
receipts of the artists of England far exceed the receipts of the singers.  A picture can usually
be painted in less time than a poem can be written.  A second-rate picture has a certain market
value,--its frame is at least something.  A second-rate poem is utterly worthless, and no one
will buy it on account of its binding.  A picture is your own exclusive property: it is a costly
article of furniture.  You hang it on your walls, to be admired by all the world.  Pictures
represent wealth: the possession of them is a luxury.  The portrait-painter is of all men the
most beloved.  You sit to him willingly, and put on your best looks. You are inclined to be
pleased with his work, on account of the strong prepossession you entertain for his subject.
To sit for one's portrait is like being present at one's own creation.  It is an admirable
excuse for egotism.  You would not discourse on the falcon-like curve which distinguishes your
nose, or the sweet serenity of your reposing lips, or the mildness of the eye that spreads
a light over your countenance, in the presence of a fellow-creature for the whole world; yet
you do not hesitate to express the most favourable opinion of the features starting out on
you from the wet canvas.  The interest the painter takes in his task flatters you.  And when
the sittings are over, and you behold yourself hanging on your own wall, looking as it you
could direct kingdoms or lead armies, you feel grateful to the artist.  He ministers to your
self-love, and you pay him his hire without wincing. Your heart warms towards him as it would
towards a poet who addresses you in an ode of panegyric, the kindling terms of which--a little
astonishing to your friends--you believe in your heart of hearts to be the simple truth, and,
in the matter of expression, not over-coloured in the very least.  The portrait-painter has
a shrewd eye for character, and is usually the best anecdote-monger in the world.  His craft
brings him into contact with many faces, and he learns to compare them curiously, and to extract
their meanings.  He can interpret wrinkles; he can look through the eyes into the man; he can
read a whole foregone history in the lines about the mouth.  Besides, from the good understanding
which usually exists between the artist and his sitter, the latter is inclined somewhat to
unbosom himself; little things leak out in conversation, not much in themselves, but pregnant
enough to the painter's sense, who pieces them together, and constitutes a tolerably definite
image.  The man who paints your face knows you better than your intimate friends do, and has
a clearer knowledge of your amiable weaknesses, and of the secret motives which influence your
conduct, than you oftentimes have yourself.  A good portrait is a kind of biography, and neither
painter nor biographer can carry out his task satisfactorily unless he be admitted behind the
scenes.  I think that the landscape painter, who has acquired sufficient mastery in his art
to satisfy his own critical sense, and who is appreciated enough to find purchasers, and thereby
to keep the wolf from the door, must be of all mankind the happiest.  Other men live in cities,
bound down to some settled task and order of life; but he is a nomad, and wherever he goes
"Beauty pitches her tents before him."  He is smitten by a passionate love for Nature, and
is privileged to follow her into her solitary haunts and recesses.  Nature is his mistress,
and he is continually making declarations of his love.  When one thinks of ordinary occupations,
how one envies him, flecking his oak-tree boll with sunlight, tinging with rose the cloud of
the morning in which the lark is hid, making the sea's swift fringe of foaming lace outspread
itself on the level sands, in which the pebbles gleam forever wet.  The landscape painter's
memory is inhabited by the fairest visions,--dawn burning on the splintered peaks that the
eagles know, while the valleys beneath are yet filled with uncertain light; the bright blue
morn stretching over miles of moor and mountain; the slow up-gathering of the bellied thunder-cloud;
summer lakes, and cattle knee-deep in them; rustic bridges forever crossed by old women in
scarlet cloaks; old-fashioned waggons resting on the scrubby common, the waggoner lazy and
wayworn, the dog couched on the ground, its tongue hanging out in the heat; boats drawn up
on the shore at sunset; the fisher's children looking seawards, the red light full on their
dresses and faces; farther back, a clump of cottages, with bait-baskets about the door, and
the smoke of the evening meal coiling up into the coloured air.  These things are forever with
him.  Beauty, which is a luxury to other men, is his daily food.  Happy vagabond, who lives
the whole summer through in the light of his mistress's face, and who does nothing the whole
winter except recall the splendour of her smiles!

The vagabond, as I have explained and sketched him, is not a man to tremble at, or avoid as
if he wore contagion in his touch.  He is upright, generous, innocent, is conscientious in
the performance of his duties; and if a little eccentric and fond of the open air, he is full
of good nature and mirthful charity.  He may not make money so rapidly as you do, but I cannot
help thinking that he enjoys life a great deal more.  The quick feeling of life, the exuberance
or animal spirits which break out in the traveller, the sportsman, the poet, the painter, should
be more generally diffused.  We should be all the better and all the happier for it.  Life
ought to be freer, heartier, more enjoyable than it is at present.  If the professional fetter
must be worn, let it be worn as lightly as possible.  It should never be permitted to canker
the limbs.  We are a free people,--we have an unshackled press,--we have an open platform,
and can say our say upon it, no king or despot making us afraid.  We send representatives to
Parliament; the franchise is always going to be extended.  All this is very fine, and we do
well to glory in our privileges as Britons.  But, although we enjoy greater political freedom
than any other people, we are the victims of a petty social tyranny.  We are our own despots,--we
tremble at a neighbour's whisper.  A man may say what he likes on a public platform,--he may
publish whatever opinion he chooses,--but he dare not wear a peculiar fashion of hat on the
street.  Eccentricity is an outlaw.  Public opinion blows like the east wind, blighting bud
and blossom on the human bough.  As a consequence of all this, society is losing picturesqueness
and variety,--we are all growing up after one pattern. In other matters than architecture past
time may be represented by the wonderful ridge of the Old Town of Edinburgh, where everything
is individual and characteristic: the present time by the streets and squares of the New Town,
where everything is gray, cold, and respectable; where every house is the other's alter ego.
It is true that life is healthier in the formal square than in the piled-up picturesqueness
of the Canongate,--quite true that sanitary conditions are better observed,--that pure water
flows through every tenement like blood through a human body,--that daylight has free access,
and that the apartments are larger and higher in the roof.  But every gain is purchased at
the expense of some loss; and it is best to combine, if possible, the excellences of the old
and the new.  By all means retain the modern breadth of light, and range of space; by all means
have water plentiful, and bed-chambers ventilated,--but at the same time have some little freak
of fancy without,--some ornament about the door, some device about the window,--something to
break the cold, gray, stony uniformity; or, to leave metaphor, which is always dangerous ground,--for
I really don't wish to advocate Ruskinism and the Gothic,--it would be better to have, along
with our modern enlightenment, our higher tastes and purer habits, a greater individuality
of thought and manner; better, while retaining all that we have gained, that harmless eccentricity
should be respected,--that every man should be allowed to grow in his own way, so long as he
does not infringe on the rights of his neighbour, or insolently thrust himself between him
and the sun.  A little more air and light should be let in upon life.  It is killing work.
Suppose we try "standing at ease" for a little!