Inscribed affectionately to John and Lucy

Chapter 1.

    "So I will do my best a gude wife to be,
     For Auld Robin Grey is vera kind to me."

"I think this will do, my dear; just listen;" and in a mysterious half whisper, good Mrs. Ferguson,
wife of James Ferguson, the well-to-do silversmith and jeweler, of High Street, Avonsbridge,
read aloud from the sheet of paper in her hand:

"'On the 21st instant, at the University Church, Avonsbridge, by the Reverend John Smith, the
Reverend Arnold Grey, D.D., Master of Saint Bede's College, Avonsbridge, to Christian, only
child of the late Edward Oakley, Esq., of that place.'  Will it do?  Because, if so, James
will send it to 'The Times' at once."

"Better ask Dr. Grey first," answered the bride.

As she spoke, Dr. Grey turned round from the window where he had been conversing--that is,
responding to conversation--with Mr. Ferguson, chiefly on the weather; for it was a snowy December
day.

This precise moment, half an hour after his marriage--his second marriage--is hardly a fair
time to describe Dr. Arnold Grey; suffice it to say that he was a gentleman apparently about
forty-five, rather low in stature, and spare in figure, with hair already thin and iron-gray.
The twenty-five years between him and his newly-married wife showed plainly--only too plainly--as
she stood, in all her gracefulness of girlhood, which even her extreme pallor and a certain
sharp, worn, unnaturally composed look could not destroy.  He seemed struck by this.  His face
clouded over for a minute, and he slightly sighed.  But the pain, whatever it was, was only
momentary.  He looked like a man who was not in the habit of acting hastily or impulsively--who
never did any thing without having previously fully counted the cost.

"What were you saying, Mrs. Ferguson?" said he, addressing her with the grave and somewhat
formal politeness which was his natural manner, but which always somewhat awed that rather
vulgar, though kind-hearted and well-meaning woman.

She put the paper into his hands.  "It's the notice for 'The Times;' James and I made it up
last night.  James thought it would save you trouble, master--"  Mrs. Ferguson always hesitated
between this common University custom of address and plain, "Dr. Grey."

"Thank you; Mr. Ferguson is always kind," returned the Master of Saint Bede's.

"You see," continued Mrs. Ferguson, lowering her tone to a confidential whisper, "I thought
it was better only to put 'Edward Oakley, Esq.,' and nothing more.  Wouldn't you like it to
be so, sir?"

"I should like it to be exactly as--" he paused, and the color rushed violently over his thin,
worn, and yet sensitive face, as sensitive as if he had been a young man still--"exactly as
Mrs. Grey pleases."

Mrs. Grey!  At the sound of her new name Christian started, and she, too, turned scarlet. 
Not the sweet, rosy blush of a bride, but the dark red flush of sharp physical or mental pain,
which all her self-control could not hide.

"Poor dear!  poor dear!  this is a great change for her, and only a year since her father died,"
said Mrs. Ferguson, still in that mysterious, apologetic whisper.  "But indeed, my love, you
have done quite right in marrying; and don't fret a bit about it.  Never mind her, sir; she'll
be better by-and-by."  This oppression of pity would have nerved any one of reserved temperament
to die rather than betray the least fragment of emotion more.  Christian gathered herself up;
her face grew pale again, and her voice steady.  She looked, not at Mrs. Ferguson, but at the
good man who had just made her his wife--and any one looking at him must have felt that he
was a good man--then said, gently but determinedly,

"If Dr. Grey has no objection, I should like to have stated my father's occupation or my own.
I do not wish to hide or appear ashamed of either."

"Certainly not," replied Dr. Grey; and, taking up the pen, he added, "Edward Oakley, Esq.,
late organist of Saint Bede's."  It was the last earthly memento of one who, born a gentleman
and a genius, had so lived, that, as all Avonsbridge well knew, the greatest blessing which
could have happened to his daughter was his death.  But, as by some strange and merciful law
of compensation often occurs, Christian, inheriting mind and person from him, had inherited
temperament, disposition, character from the lowly-born mother, who was every thing that he
was not, and who had lived just long enough to stamp on the girl of thirteen a moral impress
which could resist all contamination, and leave behind a lovely dream of motherhood that might,
perhaps-- God knows!--have been diviner than the reality.

These things Dr. Grey, brought accidentally into contact with Christian Oakley on business
matters after her father's lamentable death, speedily discovered for himself; and the result
was one of those sudden resolves which in some men spring from mere passion, in others from
an instinct so deep and true that they are not to be judged by ordinary rules.  People call
it "love at first sight," and sometimes tell wonderful stories of how a man sees, quite unexpectedly,
some sweet, strange, and yet mysteriously familiar face, which takes possession of his fancy
with an almost supernatural force.  He says to himself, "That woman shall be my wife;" and
some day, months or years after, he actually marries her; even as, within a twelvemonth, having
waited silently until she was twenty-one, Dr. Grey married Christian Oakley.

But until within a few weeks ago she herself had had no idea of the kind.  She intensely respected
him; her gratitude for his fatherly care and kindness was almost boundless; but marrying him,
or marrying at all, was quite foreign to her thoughts.  How things had come about even yet
she could hardly remember or comprehend.  All was a perfect dream.  It seemed another person,
and not she, who was suddenly changed from Mrs. Ferguson's poor governess, without a friend
or relative in the wide world, to the wife of the Master of Saint Bede's.

That she could have married, or been thought to have married him, for aught but his own good
and generous self, or that the mastership of Saint Bede's, his easy income, and his high reputation
had any thing to do with it, never once crossed her imagination.  She was so simple; her forlorn,
shut-up, unhappy life had kept her, if wildly romantic, so intensely, childishly true, that,
whatever objections she had to Dr. Grey's offer, the idea that this could form one of them--that
any one could suspect her--her, Christian Oakley--of marrying for money or for a home, did
not occur to her for an instant.  He saw that, this lover, who, from his many years of seniority,
and the experience of a somewhat hard life, looked right down into the depths of the girl's
perplexed, troubled, passionate, innocent heart, and he was not afraid. Though she told him
quite plainly that she felt for him not love, but only affection and gratitude, he had simply
said, with his own tender smile, "Never mind--I love you;" and married her.

As she stood in her white dress, white shawl, white bonnet--all as plain as possible, but still
pure bridal white, contrasted strongly with the glaring colors of that drawing-room over the
shop, which Poor Mrs. Ferguson had done her luckless best to make as fine as possible, her
tall, slender figure, harmonious movements and tones, being only more noticeable by the presence
of that stout, gaudily-dressed, and loud- speaking woman, most people would have said that,
though he had married a governess, a solitary, unprotected woman, with neither kith nor kin
to give her dignity, earning her own bread by her own honest labor, the master of Saint Bede's
was not exactly a man to be pitied.

He rose, and having silently shown the paper to Christian, enclosed it in an envelope, and
gave it to Mr. Ferguson.

"Will you take the trouble of forwarding this to 'The Times,' the latest of all your many kindnesses?"
said he, with that manner, innately a gentleman's, which makes the acknowledging of a favor
appear like the conferring of one.

Worthy James Ferguson took it as such; but he was a person of deeds, not words; and he never
could quite overcome the awe with which, as an Avonsbridge person, he, the jeweler of High
Street, regarded the master of  St.  Bede's.

Meanwhile the snow, which had been falling all day, fell thicker and thicker, so that the hazy
light of the drawing-room darkened into absolute gloom.

"Don't you think the children should be here?" said Mrs. Ferguson, pausing in her assiduous
administration of cake and wine. 

Bayonne (which has about 15,000 people) is the second center of population of the Netherlands-Pyrenees
since Pau, the capital, numbers about 16.500 inhabitants. As shown, Bayona is socially more than
21,000 souls, so that its commercial and industrial activity is very significant. It is mostly
a port of call or deposit for trade between France and Spain, both more crowded as it is paid
to speculations of smuggling. It is in that city begins extensive French railway network to the
east and north, and its importance will be much more when it completes construction of railways
and communicate to Bordeaux and Bayonne to Madrid by the provinces of Castilla, Navarra and
Aragon.

In Bayonne the passenger does not feel any artistic curiosity. This city, famous for the events
of Carlos IV and Napoleon in 1808, so fertile in huge results, do not call attention to any artistic
delicacy, but for their welfare and elegant appearance, vitality commercial and social fusion.
The splendid malls and villas and parks that surround it and are picturesque, the active movement
of people in the streets, docks and walkways and in the beautiful hotels and cafes full of travelers
(business or walkers), the number of steamers chimneys stand out among a multitude of sailing
vessels to berth the springs of the two rivers, the activity of the factories in the districts
less elegant, the mixture of languages ​​through all the conversations, the appearance of public
buildings and houses modern, nice simplicity attached to the picturesque; and the incessant crossing
of the steps to come and go every time, direction Spain, Pau, Biarritz, etc., form a social
group that gives the type of Bayonne City no less funny and enjoyable as residence, interesting
from the point of view international economy.

Many countries in Europe and America are represented in Bayonne by vice-consuls or agents trade,
and the city is not only a center of imports and exports considerable but also the most valuable
industrial production in the department of the Basses-Pyrenees adjacent. The proximity of the
sea (6 km) gives the condition of port, to likeness of Bilbao, and therefore the advantage
of maintaining its vast rivers yards where boats are built and assembled vessels fishing for
cod. The main Indian exports of production consist of wines, spirits, turpentine, lumber (fir
and pine), leather, cork and the famous "hams of Bayonne."

Of the 1.282 miles of road that mediate between Paris and Madrid, 780 distances measured Madrid
to Bayonne, in 1859 he traveled by stagecoach. Faltábame a journey by rail of 502 kilometers,
from Bayonne to Paris. From the right bank of the Adour to the left the Garonne (Bordeaux) the direct
via touch in twenty-three stations away from Mont-de-Marsan (Capital of the Landes, with about 5,000
inhabitants), and across a region full of melancholy and in some parts of desolation. Ocean
is a forest of pine and spruce growing on sandy soil and usually sterile. Abound in the marshes,
where near the ocean and rivers, and with these insects, fevers and the thorns and weeds rough
to vegetate forever in the swamp. The French government has undertaken extensive there clearing work
and desiccation, not later than that sad country will make a safe area, fertile and prosperous.
Today only takes advantage of its vast land with the exploitation of forests firs and pines, which
are obtained strong values ​​in wood, tar and turpentine. On the outskirts of Bordeaux on the
landscape is beautiful and the vast horizon, the valley of the Garonne appears in all its
splendor of culture, showing the plantation next to snuff grain and vast vineyards, which give
them such universal importance to the department the Gironde and circonvecinos.

I confess that I felt deeply moved closer to the affluent, liberal
and active Bordeaux.

He remembered the story of his famous Girondins in the French Revolution, martyrs of a political
religion whose ideas, whose deeds and whose sublime sacrifice had been interested vividly my
spirit and my heart, and whose fate has always seemed to me one of the most eloquent lessons that
history can offer to the peoples and parties in agitation.

       * * * * *

The splendid city of Bordeaux, situated at 457 kilometers southwest of Paris, is bases both banks of
the beautiful river Garonne, 96 miles distant from its mouth in the Atlantic or is in the great
Bay of Biscay. The most advantageous position thanks to the easy navigation of that river (which is one
of four first-order in the interior of France) has naturally Bordeaux a privileged city, whose
river-sea situation corresponds to that which has In the lower Loire Nantes, Rouen in the
lower Seine and, to a lesser extent, in Lyon in the Rhone. Its shipping services to everyone,
and that railroads have sought towards Spain, the Mediterranean and the interior of France, have given
universal significance, in competition with Marseille, Nantes and Le Havre, Bordeaux are with
the largest ports French empire.

A very quick and succinct description of the general conditions of
this affluent metropolis trade in southwest France, will suffice to
estimate their value to those who only know universal reputation for
its wines and spirits.

Bordeaux is divided by the Garonne into two portions. The most significant, the Bordeaux itself,
the historic city, immediately to the south-eastern margin. In the opposite lies the affluent suburb
of Chartrons, may be called the huge store-cellar in Bordeaux. From the top of the city, where
the vast construction yard naval, to the bottom of the lower extremity, where is the grocery store
of marina, the river describes a five-mile arc of development, which corresponds convex side
paute to the old city. This whole trip is the port of Bordeaux, which can 1.200 contain ships of
all sizes (up to 600 tons), apart from the fleet of large ships which discharge all or part of
their cargoes at the auxiliary port of Blaye, located far below. The river is in the city the average
width of 600 meters, measuring up to 660 front Square-royal arms
at the middle of the arc.

Bordeaux, Burdigala of the Romans, is an
ancient city and even of unknown origin of interest in every respect.

Its population alone (112,000 souls) is equivalent to more than the sixth part of what makes
up the Gironde department (600,000 inhabitants), that is capital. Its great antiquity, its historical,
political and commercial, and genius liberal and progressive of its inhabitants, have provided
the conditions do make a city monumental in every way. There are meeting to the remains of Roman
works Gothic monuments, the Renaissance and the later period, and characterizing trends of the
nineteenth century.

The great Bordeaux is well divided by the vast and beautiful street-Red
Hat (Chapeau Rouge) that, based on the bank of the river, marks the
south side of the old and modern north.

That, without being disgusting like most ancient neighborhoods of generality French cities,
is much different, highlighting the splendor of the neighborhoods new. In the early portion
of the workshops are crowded, many factories, shops trading in its main body and all that means work
and occupation exclusively. In the modern portion of the splendid streets are worth or capital
rivals the best European the grand buildings, hotels seem palaces, sumptuous cafes and stores
luxury and fashion, the magnificent walks shaded by trees, fountains and elegant clean and beautiful
squares.

On the other bank of the Garonne, the district has concealed its background CHARTRONGES irregular
factories, warehouses, quarries and everything is always a suburb,
for the most beautiful and facade that can be vast.

Such is the huge row of elegant houses over three hundred that seem palaces, edging around
the boardwalk pier one on the other end of the city. These magnificent homes are the residences
of the princes of the pipes and bundles, which constitute the commercial aristocracy of Bordeaux.
Each of these buildings, which its top is home to the dealer, contains in its underground cellars
or accessory a huge reservoir of pipes of wine and spirits, the number usually reaches 1.000. Bacchus
is resigned to having their empire in the darkness underground, consoling himself with the
safety that this rule is universal.

You can ensure that, after Paris, Bordeaux is the most beautiful and splendid capital of France,
and is also one of the most beautiful in Europe.

Everything is in the bulk or the whole characters city of affluence, of the activity, good taste and
cleanliness of the Elegance in the forms of liberalism in the ideas and customs, artistic feeling
harmonizing with the spirit of speculation. Bordeaux's population has remained at all times
the traditions of the Great French Revolution, and their trends are, like the Parisians, Lyons and
Marseilles, decidedly democratic and republican. The press do Bordeaux (notably well served and
supported by more than sixteen presses) exerts a considerable influence in France, as it is possible
that the departmental review to be felt before the absorbing pressure and formidable reputation in Paris.

Rather
rare in the genre of Roman architecture and is preserved in the monumental ruins Bordeaux Palace-Ombrière
Gallienus and of calling attention and delight the outdated or archaeologists. Among the buildings
of the Middle Ages are notable: the Cathedral, a vast basilica that
if a lack of harmony in its Gothic structure (XIII century), surprised
by greatness of the central nave and the boldness of some of its forms,
the church of Santa-Cruz (the seventh century), Byzantine in origin,
but rebuilt by Charlemagne, the St. Seurin, of various styles and
very interesting.

In the modern genre (mixed and Renaissance) is remarkable the beautiful church of Our Lady (rebuilt
at the beginning of XVIII century) and in the Fuldenses draws attention the tomb of the celebrated
Montaigne.

As far as the pure Renaissance, its architecture is represented by very beautiful sights such
as the Great Theater, the Bourse, the Palais-real, Justice, Customs, the Museum and Hospital,
one of the best of its kind in Europe. Point to monuments Bridge the Garonne and the great theater
are works outstanding. The first is amazing for its size and robustness. It measures 486 meters
long and 35 latitude (13 and 1 / 2 of road and 11 and 1 / 2 of sidewalks)
and rests on seventeen huge arches and brick masonry openings which
allow movement of large ships and steamers.

It is one of the most magnificent bridges (perhaps the first of its kind) that has the French. The theater,
though less spacious than the famous Barcelona Milan and Naples, is the most beautiful of France,
on the inner and outer forms, and has few rivals in Europe.

The Museum contains an excellent library of about 120,000 volumes, a vast museum Very valuable natural
history and mineralogy collections and antiques. Gallery paintings, transferred to the Municipal
House (City Hall), is large and contains good pictures, mainly French and Flemish schools.

Besides many other important buildings, its beautiful public baths, splendid walks, its astronomical
observatory, botanical gardens and acclimatization, etc., Bordeaux
contains many excellent educational institutions and charities of
all kinds, which give the value of a European city at least second
order.

If attention is fixed purely commercial movement, the quays of the Garonne offer the greatest
interest. A huge forest of masts populates the waves of the river, Waving the flags of all
nations world trade on ships of shapes and dimensions that feed multifarious change universal.

Along
the embankments on either margin remains an extraordinary movement
cars and goods, and while there, the porters swarm in incessant activity,
thousands of sailors call the attention from the river, with their
schemes and developments at the top of the masts and spars.

If the vast quarries of construction (or shipyard) stirred an entire population of carpenters,
manufacturers of cables, etc., where numerous dams and extensive rest ships hull, leading to
a movement no less important. Apart of the many ships belonging to owners of Bordeaux, making
foreign trade and maintain communications and international coastal sea, constantly weapon
Bordeaux numerous expeditions for whaling and cod. Many small Steamers navigable river up and down
the Garonne in Bordeaux, while others make the largest shipping heading to Spain and Portugal,
England, Germany, etc., and a line of powerful steamers is already ongoing relationship to Bordeaux
with the main ports of Brazil and the Republics del Plata.

The industry in Bordeaux is completely analogous to that of Marseille, with its notable addition
spinning cotton and wool, knitwear and printed calico, large foundries, etc. Apart the enormous centralization
of wines called "Bordeaux," which the whole world knows, the city ​​has large sugar refineries and
nitro, vast distillation of liquors, vinegars, smelling water, oil, etc., a strong imperial tobacco
manufacturing, large manufacturing chemicals and machinery and all that is consequent to a major
seaport. Agriculture in the Bordeaux regions (the Adour, Garonne, the Dordogne, etc.) Is main elements
of vineyards and grain, but also produces snuff (although terrible quality, and subjected to
disastrous restrictions), flax and many other items of no small importance. Consulates in Bordeaux
reside almost all trading nations.

In closing remember these rapid indications that Bordeaux was the
birthplace not only of Gensonné, Ducos, Fonfrede and others of the
famous Girondins, but other celebrities, such as the rare Montaigne,
the fruitful and a great thinker and observer Montesquieu, Ricardo
II of England, the British general as famous under the name "Prince"

Black "Pope Clement V, etc. Bordeaux is also notable for the evidence of religious tolerance
contains in its synagogue and the temple of Protestants.
  In his study he was
literally entombed in books--- volumes in all languages--and Avonsbridge supposed him able
to read them all.  How far this was a popular superstition, and to what length his learning
went, it is impossible to say.  But nobody ever came quite to the end of it.  He was a silent,
modest man, who never spoke much of what he knew, or of himself in any wise.  His strongest
outward characteristic was quietness, both of manner, speech, motions, springing, it appeared,
out of a corresponding quietness of soul. Whether it had been born with him, or through what
storms of human passion and suffering he had attained to this permanent central calm, who could
say?  Certainly nobody knew or was likely to know; for the Master of Saint Bede's was a person,
the depth of whose nature could not be fathomed easily with any line.  Possibly because, old
as he was, it happened, as does happen in some lives, that the right plumb-line, by the right
hand, had never been dropped yet.

As he sat, his grave eyes fixed on the ground, and his mouth covered by the long thin brown
hand--the sort of hand you see in mediaeval portraits of student-gentlemen--nothing of him
was discernible except the gentleman and the student.  Not though he sat waiting for his "two-
hours' wife," whom undoubtedly he had married for love--pure love-- the only reason for which
anyone, man or woman, old or young, ought to dare to marry.  That he could feel as very few
have the power to feel, no one who was any judge of physiognomy could doubt for a moment; yet
he sat perfectly quiet--the quietness of a man accustomed to something safer and higher than
self-suppression--self-control.  When Mr. Ferguson came in, he rose and began to speak about
the weather and local topics as men do speak to one another--and better that they should!--even
at such crises as weddings or funerals.

And Christian  his wife?

She had run up stairs--ran almost with her former light step, for her heart felt lightened
with the childish smile of little Oliver--to the attic which for the last nine months she had
occupied--the nursery, now made into a bedroom, and tenanted by herself and the two little
Fergusons.  No special sanctity of appropriation had it; a large, somewhat bare room, in which
not a thing was her own, either to miss or leave behind.  For, in truth, she had nothing of
her own; the small personalities which she had contrived to drag about with her from lodging
to lodging having all gone to pay debts, which she had insisted --and Dr. Grey agreed--ought
to be paid before she was married.  So he had taken from her the desk, the work-table, and
the other valueless yet well-prized feminine trifles, and brought her, as their equivalent,
a sum large enough to pay both these debts and all her marriage expenses, which sum she, ignorant
and unsuspicious, took gratefully, merely saying "he was very kind."

She now looked round on her sole worldly possessions--the large trunk which contained her ordinary
apparel, and the smaller one, in which were packed all she needed for her fortnight's marriage
tour.  Her traveling dress lay on the bed--a plain dark silk--her only silk gown except the
marriage one.  She let Mrs. Ferguson array her in it, and then, with her usual mechanical orderliness,
began folding up the shining white draperies and laying them in the larger trunk.

"Shall I send that direct to the Lodge, my dear?"

Christian looked up absently.

"To Saint Bede's Lodge--you know--that it may be ready for you when you come home?"

Home--that blessed word which should send a thrill to the heart of any bride.  Alas! this bride
heard it quite unheeding, saying only,  "Do what you think best, Mrs. Ferguson."

And then she proceeded to fasten her collar and complete the minutiae of her dress with that
careful neatness which was an instinct with Christian, as it is with all womanly women, though
how this poor motherless girl had ever learned womanliness at all was a marvel.  She answered
chiefly in soft monosyllables to the perpetual stream of Mrs. Ferguson's talk, till at last
the good soul could no longer restrain herself.

"Oh, my dear, if you would only speak--only let out your feelings a little; for you must feel
this day so; I'm sure I do, just as if it were my own wedding day, or Isabella's, or Sarah
Jane's.  And when they do come to be married, poor lambs!  I hope it will be as good a match
as you are making--only, perhaps, not a widower.  But I beg your pardon. Oh, Miss Oakley, my
dear, we shall miss you so!"

And the good woman, who had a heart--and hearts are worth something--clasped the orphan-bride
to her broad bosom, and shed over her a torrent of honest tears.

"Thank you," Christian said, and returned the kiss gently, but no tears came to her eyes.

"And now," added Mrs. Ferguson, recovering herself, "I'll go and see that every thing is right;
and I'll get my warm tartan shawl for you to travel in.  It is a terrible snowy day still.
You'll come down stairs presently?"

"Yes."

But the instant Mrs. Ferguson was gone Christian locked the door.  The same look, of more than
pain--actual fear--crossed her face.  She stood motionless,  as if trying to collect herself,
and then, with her hands all shaking, took from her traveling-trunk a sealed packet.  For a
second she seemed irresolute, and only a second.

"It must be done--it is right.  I ought to have done it before--Good-by forever."

Good-by to what--or to whom?

All that the fire revealed, as she laid the packet on it, stirring it down into a red hollow,
so that not a flickering fragment should be left unconsumed, were four letters--only four--written
on dainty paper, in a man's hand, sealed with a man's large heraldic seal.  When they were
mere dust, Christian rose.

"It is over now--quite over.  In the whole world there is nobody to believe in--except him.
He is very good, and he loves me.  I was right to marry him--yes, quite right."

She repeated this more than once, as if compelling herself to acknowledge it, and then paused.

Christian was not exactly a religious woman--that is, she had lived among such utterly irreligious
people, that whatever she thought or felt upon these subjects had to be kept entirely to herself--but
she was of a religious nature.  She said her prayers duly, and she had one habit--or superstition,
some might sneeringly call it--that the last thing before she went on a journey she always
opened her Bible; read a verse or two, and knelt down, if only to say, "God, take care of me,
and bring me safe back again;" petitions that in many a wretched compelled wandering were not
so uncalled for as some might suppose.

She started, as if only now she began to comprehend the full force of that awful union--"one
flesh" and "till death us do part."

Mrs. Ferguson tried the door, and knocked.

"Dr. Grey is waiting, my dear. You must not keep your husband waiting."

"My husband!"  and again, came the wild look, as of a free creature suddenly caught, tied,
and bound.  "What have I done? oh what have I done? Is it too late?"

Ay, it was too late.

Many a woman has married with far less excuse that Christian did-- married for money or position,
or in a cowardly yielding to family persuasion, some one who she knew did not love her, or
whom she did not love, with the only sort of love which makes marriage sacred. What agonies
such women must have endured, if they had any spark of feminine feeling left alive, they themselves
know; and what Christian, far more guiltless than they, also endured during the three minutes
that she kept Mrs. Ferguson waiting at the locked door, was a thing never to be spoken of,
but also never to be forgotten during the longest and happiest lifetime.  It was a warning
that made her--even her--to the end of her days, say to every young woman she knew, "Beware!
Marry for love, or never marry at all."

When she descended, every ray of color had gone out of her face--it was white and passionless
as stone; but she kissed the children all around, gave a little present to Isabella, who had
been her only bridesmaid, shook hands and said a word or two of thanks to honest James Ferguson,
her "father" for the day, and then found herself driving through the familiar streets--not
alone.  She never would be alone any more.

With a shudder, a sense of dread indescribable, she remembered this. All her innocent, solitary,
dreamy days quite over, her happiness. vanished; her regrets become a crime.  The responsibility
of being no longer her own, but another's--bound fixedly and irrevocably by the most solemn
vow that can be given or taken, subject to no limitations. provisions, or exception while life
remained.  Oh.  it was awful--awful!

She could have shrieked and leaped out of the carriage, to run wildly anywhere--to the world's
end--when she felt her hand taken, softly but firmly.

"My dear, how cold you are!  Let me make you warm if I can."

And then, in his own quiet, tender way, Dr. Grey wrapped her up in her shawl and rolled a rug
about her feet.  She took no notice, submitted passively, and neither spoke a word more till
they had driven on for two or three miles, into a country road leading to a village where Avonsbridge
people sometimes went for summer lodgings.

Christian knew it well.  There, just before her father's death, he and she had lived, for four
delicious, miserable, momentous weeks.  She had never seen the place since, but now she recognized
it--every tree, every field, the very farm-house garden, once so bright, now lying deep in
snow.  She began tremble in every limb.

"Why are we here?  This is not our right road.  Where are we going?"

"I did not mean to come this way, but we missed the train, and cannot reach London tonight;
so I thought we would post across country to E," naming a quiet cathedral town, "where you
can rest, and go on when or where you please.  Will that do?"

"Oh yes."

"You are not dissatisfied?  We could not help missing the Train, you see."

"Oh no."

The quick, sharp, querulous answers--that last refuge of a fictitious strength that was momentarily
breaking down--he saw it all, this good man, this generous, pitiful-hearted man, who knew what
sorrow was, and who for a whole year had watched her with the acuteness which love alone teaches,
especially the love which, coming late in life, had a calmness and unselfishness which youthful
love rarely possesses.  The sort of love which, as he had once quoted to her out of an American
book, could feel, deeply and solemnly, "that if a man really loves a woman, he would not marry
her for the world, were he not quite sure he was the best person she could by any possibility
marry"--that is, the one who loved her so perfectly that he was prepared to take upon himself
all the burden of her future life, her happiness or sorrow, her peculiarities, shortcomings,
faults, and all.

This, though he did not speak a word, was written, plain as in a book, on the face of Christian's
husband, as he watched  her, still silently, for another mile, till the early winter sun-set,
bursting through the leaden-colored, snowy sky, threw a faint light in at the carriage window.

Christian looked up, and closed her eyes again in a passive hopelessness sad to see.

Her husband watched her still.  Once he sighed--a rather sad sigh for a bridegroom, and then
a light, better and holier than love, or rather the essence of all love, self-denial and self-forgetfullness,
brightened up his whole countenance.

"How very tired she is; but I shall take care of her, my poor child!"

The words were as gentle as if he had been speaking to one of his own children, and he drew
her to him with a tender, protecting fatherliness which seemed the natural habit of his life,
such as never, in her poor, forlorn life, had any one shown to Christian Oakley.  It took away
all her doubts, all her fears.  For the moment she forgot she was married, forgot everything
but his goodness, his tenderness, his care over her, and her great and sore need of the same.
She turned and clung to him, weeping passionately.

"I have nobody in the world but you.  Oh, be kind to me!"

"I will," said Arnold Grey.

Chapter 2

    "You'll love me yet!  And I can tarry
     Your love's protracted growing:
     June reaped that bunch of flowers you carry
     From seeds of April's sowing."

Saint Bede's is one of the most ancient of the minor colleges of Avonsbridge.  Its foundress's
sweet, pale, suffering face, clad in the close coif of the time of the wars of the Roses, still
smiles over the fellow's table in hall, and adorns the walls of combination-room.  The building
itself has no great architectural beauty except the beauty of age.  Its courts are gray and
still, and its grounds small; in fact, it possesses only the Lodge garden, and a walk between
tall trees on the other side of the Avon, which is crossed by a very curious bridge.  The Lodge
itself is so close to the river, that from its windows you may drop a stone into the dusky,
slowly rippling, sluggish water, which seems quieter and deeper there than at any other college
past which it flows.

Saint Bede's is, as I said, a minor college, rarely numbering more than fifty gownsmen at a
time, and maintaining, both as to sports and honors, a mild mediocrity.  For years it had not
sent any first-rate man either to boat-race, or cricket-ground, or senate-house.  Lately, however,
it had boasted one, quite an Admirable Crichton in his way, who, had his moral equaled his
mental qualities, would have carried all before him.  As it was, being discovered in offenses
not merely against University authority, but obnoxious to society at large, he had been rusticated.
Though the matter was kept as private as possible, its details being known only to the master,
dean and tutor, still it made a nine-day's talk, not only in the college, but in the town--until
the remorseless wave of daily life, which so quickly closes over the head of either ill-doer
or well-doer, closed completely over that of Edwin Uniacke.

Recovering from the shock of his turpitude, the college now reposed in peace upon its slender
list of well-conducted and harmless undergraduates, its two or three tutors, and its dozen
or so of gray old fellows, who dozed away their evenings in combination-room.  Even such an
event as the master's second marriage had scarcely power to stir Saint Bede's from its sleepy
equanimity.

It was, indeed, a peaceful place.  It had no grand entrance, but in a narrow back street you
came suddenly upon its ancient gateway, through which you passed into a mediaeval world.  The
clock tower and clock, with an upright sundial affixed below it, marked the first court, whence,
through a passage which, as is usual in colleges, had the hall on one hand and the buttery
on the other, you entered the second court, round three sides of which ran cloisters of very
ugly, very plain, but very ancient architecture.  In a corner of these cloisters was the door
of the Lodge--the master's private dwelling.

Private it could hardly be called; for, like all these lodges of colleges, it had an atmosphere
most anti-home like, which at first struck you as extremely painful.  Its ancientness, both
of rooms and furniture, added to this feeling.  When you passed through the small entrance
hall, up the stone staircase, and into a long, narrow, mysterious gallery, looking as it must
have looked for two centuries at least, you felt an involuntary shiver, as of warm, human,
daily life brought suddenly into contact with the pale ghosts of the past. 

In one of these days of deep anger roaring life of Josephine ran imminent danger. When practice was
called into the dining room to give her lessons. Concha settled in his chair and took undisguised
delight the fatal chest whale. That day I asked the reasonable sufficiency of body blows. The
girl went to her trembling as long as you delivered the books. And I began to recite a chapter
of stuttering lips history sacred when it came to interrupt Manin. He went to his eternal green
jacket, short pants, great calanes filthy, shaking the floor with spiked boots. This dress, archaic
in the province, owed much of its notoriety and fame of terrible hunter bear he had seen. He went with
his head down as usual, and sprawled under lintel of the door, asked:

- Concha, is not there for what, to eat there?

- So much you tighten
the gazuza, Manin? - The seamstress replied, laughing.

The village opened his mouth to laugh too.

- So help me God, I can not stand a Menut more.

You seem Toos barefooted friars in this house you do not like it comes more than When the time
comes.

- I, I go there, great glutton, rodent - Concha said posing on the chair and the book dirge
with whale and petulant way to the sideboard.

They understood admirably. The seamstress was surly, cruel, intractable, but the butler knew of it
gathering the few bits of humor that was in the body. The woo brutally pinched her passing,
I said billion gross effrontery to understand that backwards. And the microscopic maid, who was
gentle and nice and in whom the rough character had put down every trace of coquetry, transformed
into a priestess of pain, cumene in a fatal and pitiless, he let himself complacently by brute
celebrate. Le amused his daring, his rudeness, his greed and careless insolent manner he had to
treat everyone, even the high and mighty lord of Quiñones.

Manin was a solemn scoundrel. With that foul rudeness, the attitude of daring hunter of wild beasts
and bizarre herding had learned to live very pleasing in this world, not calloused hands, broken
or the spines back in her village with the farm chores.

Seamstress pulled a plate of cold meat and put it on the rubber of the table, napkin or anything
like it, then cut in half a loaf and put it with the necessary bottle white wine glass, next
to the meat. The bear hunter began to devour. Concha sat down again, and she came and repeated
the words he had uttered. A few moments bang! a ballenazo and a cry of pain. Immediately another
hit and another cry. And so on. The seamstress was delighted to discover that the girl stumbled
more than other times.

Manin engulfed in silence, returning only occasionally eyes marked indifference to the sad
scene. Soon, as machine began to whisper to each stroke: "Dale! Atiza!
Good was that!

Go one hand and similar !...» exclamations.

He finished the lesson of sacred history.

Before taking the grammar was a break. The seamstress began to banter with the butler. He was
an angelic mood.

- What about meat?

- Rich, rich indeed!

- The worst thing is that you will remove the appetite for lunch.

Trembled the room with the laughter of the laborer.

- That's it!

To me anything like it takes me!

You'll have to get me a hot iron in the water like a lady.

- In the belly I had to put, big pig.

- Look, Concha, I seek tickles, because even if you're a young girl and you have to sandunga very
roguish eyes and mouth like a cherry, one day you find, not knowing where wine, a setback that
will uproot this little run of pearls that are teaching me.

- Hush, hush, viejote, zapalastrón! Well you and for setbacks! If you can not with panties! If you
and hastily!

- That's not what you say with your heart, that's why you expected.

You know that a lot in here involved yet (and was rude punched in the chest). If you cogiera
in a cornfield!

- As if I cogieras in the marketplace! Na.

You do not have more than jaws and gab.

- And hands apalpar the grace of God - "said the barbarian taking with the hairy paw Beard seamstress.

-
Quito, Quito! Gorrinazo!

And he hit the whale with a tap on the fingers. He turned to ramming and she gandulote fend off the
same way. He tried to grab her by the waist.

The maiden rose and ran around the room, pretending to be angry.

- Do not touch me, Manin! Look what I call the lady.

But he would not listen.

The grunts and laughter pursued pitching; abrazábala here soltábala there, getting in his
cheeks, rough and tough like the skin of an elephant, slapping the home, without showing feeling
them. Creaking furniture, the floor trembled, bells crockery in the cupboards. He unabated.
Increasingly zalamerón false. I knew the rogue that this slut was awake irascible and devilish vanity,
like all beings human capital and that it was relevant to her belly to keep her happy. Finally,
launching lowing a real beef, got her by the waist and lift in the air. Mantúvola up without
effort, like a little boy of three years.

- What now? What do you say now, Zapaquilda? Where are these livers? Where those hands? Anda
Witch asks forgiveness, if not, I dropped like a frog - the cazurrón roared, shaking her in air.

-
Let me, Manin! Let me, jackass! There cochinazo! Look to cry!

Finally put it gently on the floor. The girl, breathless, disheveled, knitting much eyebrows
to appear more angry, breathless voice said:

- Have you no shame, Manin. If it were not staring at the house where we are, you pulled the lamp
the nose and you broke them by gross and insolentón. Maybe they are the servants hearing all this,
and what will they say? Quito, Quito there! I do not ever say word, because I do not answer.

-
That! Shout now, conceited, then did you see God - snoring Manin sarcastically, looking at sideways
and rubbing his beard.

- If you do not remove from my sight, baldragote !...-- the tiny maid exclaimed, passing her despite
flashes of laughter from his eyes.

Manin sat down again to engulf the remaining bread and drink another
glass of white.

Josefina while sobbing in a corner, clutching his injured mouth,
feeling the cheeks black and blue by the calves.

Manin she deigned to take a look.

- Do not cry, tontine, the pain of the lashes and science will be in you pate forever - he said
with his knife cut a piece of bread and putting it in the mouth .-- If you want my opinion, the more you
stick together you must be happier. What would you be if Shell had no mercy to punish you hard?
A chafandina that would not be a bushel acorn, a beast, it saves
the comparison.

Now what will you be? A woman too so pa it asks. (Pause while cutting another piece of bread
and grind it, raising a lump as fist in the right cheek) ... Come
on, if I'd had teachers like you lifting up my to whip the hide would
not be an ass, I would call Manin, but Don Manuel, and instead Sudit
be a miserable, would walk around giving me important, walking with
Altavilla back as the lords hands and reading the newspapers in the
casino.

(Another pause and another amputation the mud) ... Get in the right if you caletre for it. How
do you learn those without some things so convoluted lampreazos?
Who learned Daquan never without spanking?

Nobody. Well, then! If you had knowledge, child, you give thanks to God for having put a teacher
who is like a glory. To serve the endin too, for his hands are too thin and feet ready, eh, you?

Concha
had been serious again, sitting down and doing an imperious gesture
to the girl to approach.

Tocábale the turn of the grammar.

Walked here even worse than ever, séase lack of memory or because they fear the mob. Began
thrashing: a ballenazo now and then another and another and another. Manin, true to his educational,
clapping mouth full, serious cutting, carefully, in geometric pieces of bread before to lead in
all seriousness to his lips. The faults were many, the blows were many others. But at the end
of the lesson, Concha considered more appropriate punishment each
violation, taking into account how badly she had done, it was appropriate
to end with a general bashing that comprise all.

He lifted the chair and brandishing a formidable whale said:

- Now, for you to study better and you will awaken the senses, making!

Were so many tough blows, the creature, trying to escape that martyrdom, caught with his hands clenched
to the skirts of his executioner.

Somehow, perhaps by having hung them unconsciously, that held the tape broke and came to the
ground, leaving only the seamstress shirt. He gave a cry of shame
and quickly lifted.

But without stopping to tie the ribbon again, looking deep grudge against the girl stay out
of the hands holding them.

- Have you done, good, good, good! - Manin said, neatly carving bite
to would lead to the mouth.

The creature, paralyzed with terror, not crying.

Not even the wounds ached. After few moments he appeared again accompanied by Mrs. Concha. This
came smiling sarcastically.

- Apparently, Miss now likes the girls to undress in front of men. Will you be happy, lady, is not
it? Manin've seen it everywhere Concha. Right, Manin, who has been comfortably?

He took a few steps. The girl drew back frightened.

- Do not worry, miss. Calm yourself, lady. I do not come here to whip you. That the whipping is
very old. Who remembers and whipping! Just come to invite you to take a turn in the cave ... Cave
of the mice ... you know. There can entertain in a rat stripped of many that come to visit ...
Come on, give me hand for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and Concha, ran around the
table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

- Manin! Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! In the cave no! Godmother, sorry! Kill me first. It seems I have a lot of fear!
The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent and serious. The cries of
the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading to the basement.

Amalia opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter
into the interior.

Closed fury, but she ran towards the exit door and took her hand. They heard a cry heartbreaking.
The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature she fell to the floor
and locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint rays of light a porthole open
on top. He served in the past to wine cellar.

Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice knotted
in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong
earthquake, fell faint.

After half an hour the groom, who had witnessed
the closure, moved by compassion, He approached the door and looked
through the keyhole. Could see nothing. He called very softly.

-
Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same
silence. Startled, she screamed and hit the door with all his might
not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was, at
the risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what
was happening. Between her and Paula went to the creature senseless,
cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed on the face.
Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's
wife rushed to get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but
immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa doctor. Found her badly.
To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia,
fertile in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended
to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was
with eye during disease. No loss hurt the creature on which he had
poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ​​losing
at once his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine,
was reported last night that Fernanda had left in the post-chaise
to Madrid, and Luis only take four or five days to meet with it. Experienced
violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest. That night
had a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation for
the traitor. Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the news
of the death of his daughter cry a little, after the caresses of his
beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive, there
would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and Lancia
a poor old woman serving sad scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla.
Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their race shouted
angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing his daughter
dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart.

He thought,
singular and terrible to tell her husband everything. Knew what it
give of themselves, but for now would cause a scandal. D. Peter was
violent, had great power and prestige. Who knows the havoc that could
cause the pump? True, he was paralyzed and could not take revenge
into their own hands, but what would happen to not be so arrogant
man and punctilious means of returning the wrong which he felt? She
would fall among the ruins, but fall with the traitor like if somehow
paid their perfidy.

After much struggle with this thought, not risking
to confess by word or write under his signature, sent to D. Pedro,
disguising the letter, an anonymous letter. "The girl you've collected
six years ago is the daughter of his wife and a gentleman who frequents
home and who you call your friend.  On the very first day of term, when
Dr. Grey would meet so many people he knew to have to introduce his wife!  Why, everybody would
have laughed at him; and no wonder. Verily, there's no fool like an old fool."

"Henrietta!" pitifully appealed the sister, "you know dear Arnold is not a fool.  He never
did a foolish thing in his life, except, perhaps, in making this unfortunate marriage.  And
she may improve.  Any body ought to improve who had the advantage of living constantly with
dear Arnold."

Miss Gascoigne, always on the watch for affronts, turning sharply round, but there was not
a shadow of satire in her friend's simplicity. "My dear Maria, you are the greatest--"

But what Miss Grey was remained among the few bitter speeches that Miss Gascoigne left unsaid,
for at that moment the heavy oak door was thrown wide open, and Barker, the butler (time-honored
institution of Saint Bede's, who thought himself one of its strongest pillars of support),
repeated, in his sonorous voice,

"The master and Mrs. Grey."

Thus announced--suddenly and formally, like a stranger, in her own house--Christian came home.

The two maiden aunts rose ceremoniously.  Either their politeness sprang from their natural
habit of good-breeding, or it was wrung from them by extreme surprise.  The apparition before
them--tall, graceful, and dignified--could by no means be mistaken for any thing but a lady--such
a lady as Avonsbridge, with all its aristocracy of birth and condition, rarely produced.  She
would have been the same even if attired in hodden gray, but now she was well-dressed in silks
and furs. Dr. Grey had smiled at the modest trousseau, and soon settled every thing by saying,
"My wife must wear so and so."   In this rich clothing, which set off her fair large Saxon
beauty to the utmost advantage, Christian quite dazzled the eyes of the two ladies who had
so persistently called her "that young woman."   Any person with eyes at all could see that,
except for the difference in age, there was not the slightest incongruity between (to follow
Barker's pompous announcement) "the master and Mrs. Grey."

Dr. Grey's personal introduction was brief enough: "Christian, these are my sisters.  This
is Maria, and this is Henrietta--Miss Gascoigne."

Christian bowed--a little stately, perhaps--and then held out her hand, which, after a hesitating
glance at Miss Gascoigne, was accepted timidly by Miss Grey. If I had done as he was told the Princess,
had lived more than a thousand years.

Tell me you do not like to go see the Dragon Palace, across the sea, where the god lives and
reigns as king of dragons, turtles and fish, where the trees are
emerald leaves and jewels for fruit, and where the scales are silver
and gold tails?

RAVAGES OF LOVE AND JEALOUSY

TRAGIC DRAMA

THIS drama, so too tragic, devoid of any literary worth, but is published here to satisfy the
curiosity of a few people who wanted to see him when he was represented and did not succeed
because of the smallness of the room that served as a theater. The author wrote The drama at
the request of the graceful and unobtrusive Miss María de Valenzuela, who prescribed certain
conditions that should hold his work. The drama was not to last longer fourteen or fifteen minutes,
the action had to be as awful as fast, and, except for parades and dumb characters, they only
appear in the six partners, three male and three females, all of whom had died of disasters and violent
death in the same scene. As frightening outcome was not to be due, or plague, or famine, or fire
heaven, nor any other supernatural means, but everything had to happen simply because gruesome
frenzy effect that love and jealousy in the soul of a passionate woman. I believe I have fulfilled
the above conditions imposed Miss me then I am proud. I recognize, however, that my play had
not been so lauded and celebrated not for the merit of the actors and actresses that made me
the honor to represent you. These were the nice lady Dona Rosario Conde Luque Rascon, the two
Miss Ms Mary and Isabella de Valenzuela and D. Alfonso Danvila, D. Javier de la Pezuela and
D. Silvio Vallin. They, not the reduced and poor poet's inspiration, success must astounding
that won the drama, in the beautiful theater that Mr. D. Fernando Bauer improvised in home,
and whose magnificent Moorish décor beautifully painted Mr. Conde del Real Appreciation. I
should add here that is not dispensed by any means, nor apologized diligence to ensure The costumes
and scenic pomp and corresponded and even enhanced the greatness and solemn majesty of the argument.
My production now stripped of all the beauties they then lent claim will be very difficult to
like.

I, however, I venture to insert here relied on the indulgence of
the public and to please the many friends and acquaintances who wish
to have it in print.

ACT ONE

    Castillo magnificent lobby.

    Large door in the background.
    Side doors. It is night. Roars the storm.
    Deep dark, sometimes
    illuminated by vivid lightning.
    Much thunder.
    
    SCENE
    
    Ms comes dressed in costume Brianda
    mid-fifteenth century, and with
    a candle in his hand.
    
    Doña Brianda.
    
    Oh what a night, my God! Sometimes
    I feel hot and sometimes cold. Thunder
    and lightning and barbarous
    fury hail the hair on the forehead
    I bristle, I have the heart and made
    jelly. And that I am brave
    that no: well-known
    D. Ramon, my brother I leave at night
    so fatal and out, confident
    of his fortune with all the strong and fresh squad
    who rules and governed which feudal lord. What
    they will do is a mystery but must be set very seriously.

    Half a league from this house safe is already the Moorish kingdom
of Granada, where havoc and death will lead entering riot.

    But in the meantime you can come to this castle the Moor and give
me that feeling, and to miss a little of my decorum.

    Great are my fears!

    (Dan loud knocking at the door.) What horror! Who called? Divine
    heaven! (Sounds
    a voice from outside.)
    
    Voice.
    

    Castle Ah!

    Hello!

    

    Doña Brianda.
    
    (Who has come to the door
    and looked through the
    hole key.) Woman's voice and looks alone.

    (Go back and look through the hole.) But no, that accompanies a black
lump.

    Who is it?

    

    Voice from outside.

    Open up!

Doña Brianda.

Heavens! What tangle is this? Whose voice
drives me now the heart of proportion? or have lost his mind or this
is the voice of Doña Urraca.

Doña Urraca.

I am. Open, Brianda.

Doña
Brianda.

Sign. I'm like soft wax.

SCENE II

"One thing more.  Whatever goes wrong, you will always come at once and tell it to me--to nobody
in the world but me.  Remember."

"I will."

Dr. Grey leaned forward and kissed his wife in his inexpressibly tender way, and then they
went in together.

Letitia and Arthur occupied two little closets leading out of the nursery, which seemed spacious
enough, and ancient enough, to have been the dormitory of a score of monks, as very likely
it was in the early days of Saint Bede's.  Phillis, sewing by her little table in the far corner,
kept guard over a large bed, where, curled up like a rose-bud, flushed and warm, lay that beautiful
child whom Christian had thought of twenty times a day for the last fortnight.

"Well, Phillis, how are you and your little folk?" said the master, in a pleasant whisper,
as he crossed the nursery floor.

He trod lightly, but either his step was too welcome to remain undiscovered, or the children's
sleep had been "fox's sleep," for there arose a great outcry of "Papa, papa!"  Oliver leaped
up, half laughing, half screaming, and kicking his little bare legs with glee as his father
took him in his arms; Arthur came running in, clad in the very airiest costume possible; and
Letitia appeared sedately a minute or two afterwards having stopped to put on her warm scarlet
dressing-gown, and to take off her nightcap--under the most exciting circumstances, Titia was
such an exceedingly "proper" child.

What would the Avonsbridge dons have said--the solitary old fellows in combination-room--and,
above all, what would the ghosts of the gloomy old monks have said, could they have seen the
Master of Saint Bede's, with all his children round him, hugging him, kissing him, chattering
to him, while he hung over them in an absorption of enjoyment so deep that, for a moment, Christian
was unnoticed?  But only for a moment; and he turned to where she stood, a little aloof, looking
on, half sadly, and yet with beaming, kindly eyes.  Her husband caught her hand and drew her
nearer.

"Children, you remember this lady.  She was very good to you one day lately.  And now I want
you to be very good to her."

"Oh yes," cried Oliver, putting up his mouth at once for a kiss.  "I like her very much.  Who
is she?  What is her name?"

Children ask sometimes the simplest, yet the most terrible of questions. This one seemed literally
impossible to be answered.  Dr. Grey tried, and caught sight of his daughter's face--the mouth
pursed into that hard. line which made her so exactly like her mother.  Arthur, too, looked
sullen and shy.  Nobody spoke but little.  Oliver, who, in his innocent, childish way, pulling
Christian's dress, repeated again, "What is your name?  What must Olly call you?"

Whatever she felt, her husband must have felt and known that this was the critical moment which,
once let slip, might take years afterward to recall.  He said, nervously enough, but with a
firmness that showed he must already have well considered the subject,

"Call her mamma."

There was no reply.  Christian herself was somewhat startled, but conscious of a pleasant thrill
at the sound of the new name, coming upon her so suddenly.  Strange it was; and ah! how differently
it came to her from the way it comes upon most women--gradually, deliciously, with long looking
forward and tremulous hope and fear--still it was pleasant.  The maternal instinct was so strong
that even imaginary motherhood seemed sweet.  She bent forward to embrace the children, with
tears in her eyes, when Letitia said, in a sharp, unchildlike voice,

"People can't have two mammas; and our mamma is buried in the New Cemetery.  Aunts took us
there yesterday afternoon."

Had the little girl chosen the sharpest arrow in her aunts' quiver--nay, bad she been Miss
Gascoigne herself, she could not have shot more keenly home.  For the dart was barbed with
truth--literal truth; which, however, sore it be, people in many difficult circumstances of
life are obliged to face, to recognize, and abide by--to soften and subdue if they can--but
woe betide them if by any cowardly weakness or shortsighted selfishness, they are tempted to
deny it as truth, or to overlook and make light of it.

Painful as the position was--so painful that Dr. Grey was quite overcome by it, and maintained
a total silence--Christian  had yet the sense to see that it was a position inevitable, because
it was true. Bitterly as the child had spoken--with the bitterness which she had been taught--yet
she had only uttered a fact.  In one sense, nobody could have two mothers; and Christian, almost
with contrition, thought of the poor dead woman whose children were now taught to call another
woman by that sacred name.  But the pang passed.   Had she known the first Mrs. Grey, it might
not have been so sharp; in any case, here was she herself--Dr. Grey's wife and the natural
guardian of his children. Nothing could alter that fact.  Her lot was cast; her duty was clear
before her; she must accept it and bear it, whatever it might be perhaps, for some reasons,
it was the better for her that it was rather hard.

She looked at her husband, saw how agitated he was, and there seemed to come into her mind
a sort of inspiration.

"My child," she said, trying to draw Letitia toward her, "you say truly. I am not your own
mamma; no one ever could be that to you again; but I mean to be as like her as I can.  I mean
to love you and take care of you; and you will love me too by-and-by.  You can always talk
to me as much as ever you like about your own mamma."

"She doesn't remember her one bit," said Arthur, contemptuously.

"Oh, yes I do," cried Letitia.  "She was very pretty, and always wore such beautiful gowns."

Again there was a silence, and then Christian said,

"I think, if the children do not dislike it, that as they always called Mrs. Grey 'mamma,'
they had better call me 'mother.'  It is a pleasanter word than step-mother.  And I hope to
make myself a real mother to them before very long."

"I know you will," answered Dr. Grey, in a smothered voice, as he set down little Oliver, and,
kissing the children all round, bade nurse carry them off to bed once more--nurse, who, standing
apart, with her great black eyes had already taken the measure of the new wife, of the children's
future, and of the chances of her own authority.  Not the smallest portion of this decision
originated in the fact that Christian, wholly preoccupied as she was, quitted it without taking
any notice of her--Phillis--at all.

Dr. Grey preceded his wife to a room, which, in the long labyrinth of apartments, seemed almost
a quarter of a mile away.  A large fire burnt on the old-fashioned hearth, and glimmered cheerily
on the white toilet- table, crimson sofa, and bed.  It was a room comfortable, elegant, pleasant,
bright, thoroughly "my lady's chamber," and which seemed from every nook to welcome its new
owner with a smile.

"Oh, how pretty!" exclaimed Christian, involuntarily.  She was not luxurious, yet she dearly
loved pretty things; the more so, because she had never possessed them.  Even now, though her
heart was so moved and full, she was not insensible to the warmth imparted to it by mere external
pleasantnesses like these.

"I had the room newly furnished.  I thought you would like it," said Dr. Grey.

"I do like it.  How very kind you are to me!"

Kind--only kind!

She looked around the room, and there, in one corner, just as if she had never parted from
them, were all the old treasures of her maidenhood-- desk, work-table, chair.  She guessed
all the secret.  Once, perhaps, she might have burst into tears--heart-warm tears; now she
only sighed.

"Oh, how good you are!" 

CHAPTER III

     
      And the beat fluttered thousand beauties
      Who wore fantastic costumes, And to
      me that the views offered Of an Eastern poet.

         

R. PALMA

That night [30] Theatre of Havana chose his elegance in the Philharmonic Society. Shone there
in all its splendor and fine taste of the ladies, as well as the size decent gentlemen. In addition
to the usual members and guests attended the Lords Consuls of foreign nations, the officers
of the garrison and the Royal Navy, the General Captain assistants
and some other notables for their character and circumstances as were
the son of the famous Marshal Ney, who was traveling, and the Dutch
consul in New York.

Made themselves notable tulle dresses embroidered with silver and gold on white satin background,
being trendy and equal to that Mme. Minette was in Paris for the current sovereign Spain. The
sleeves of this outfit known by the name of the Cristina, were short, Abobo and trimmed the bottom
with lace too wide. Were also other tulle delicately embroidered with a lot on blue background.
Likewise drew widespread attention tulle dresses with white satin lining on pointe found, they
adorned narrow lace sleeves to Cristina. Others like the latter, but with different fittings,
could be observed, without leave to be many more whose elegance and
taste desmerecían nothing to those already described.

Hairstyles harmonized with the clothing. Egyptians wore a turban, some white feathers very neatly
made, the most, giraffes of all sizes, decorated with blue flowers or white, keeping union
with the color of the suit, and some had gold loops gracefully placed. It was great and beautiful
the effect produced by the gathering of so many and so beautiful dandies. He encouraged the
audience a complete joy, and overflowing with the smile of all. The label, which generally
characterizes the dances of the Company was not rather than the ladies' dresses and costumes of the
men, who wore a contention his embroidered uniform gentlemen, generals, the brigadier, colonels,
senior employees, Cadaval Lemaur their red sashes and silk, whereas
those who had not title and awards were content with the latest Paris
fashion in such meetings.

Headpiece adorned the main hall the magnificent canopy, which occupied the center portrait
King Ferdinand VII. The wall panels supported historical paintings and cornices hung a curtain of
blue damask trimmed with white flags with bright fringes silk, supported by Roman gold ornaments
and nails, which fell gracefully cords and silk tassels.

The ceiling of the room was wearing the same apricot color hanging.

Began about ten o'clock and eleven dancing the main hall was completely full. In between sherbet
and soft drinks of all kinds in large silver trays supported by lackeys. The women who preferred
to take them out of the room they had prepared for this purpose a well lit room, where he was
raised pastries and ready to serve them, but the politics and manners of the members and guests
were saved a job for men becomes pleasure when used in the service
of ladies.

The dinner began between 0:01 am and consisted of turkey bologna, ham Westphalia, cheese, GIGOT
excellent garment-old, fresh, dried, preserves, liqueur wines Spain and abroad, delicious chocolate,
coffee and fruits of all countries in trade the island of Cuba.

It was most remarkable that, racing the magnificence of the table with her prodigal abundance,
but the food did not cost the job of ordering.

Can say without fear of contradiction that the elegance and beauty
of Havana had met that night at the Philharmonic Society.

      Because there was the
    Marchioness of Arcos, daughter
    of the famous Marquis de Pedro
    Calvo, Luisa, his eldest
    daughter, then fifteen years
    old. For this was improvised
    Plácido those lines:
    
    He went fluttering The exquisite
    atmosphere Parched mosquitoes, Juice of flowers looking; Came to
your mouth, and thinking That was a rose or carnation, Introduced
in it, Because there loves pleasure Sweet died in your throat, Like
a glass of honey.

Chacón sisters there, they deserved for their beauty appear on the large canvas painting by
Vermay [31] to perpetuate the memory of the mass celebrated at the opening of the Temple Plaza
de Armas. There the Montalvo, Teutonic type, one of which was declared beauty queen, when the rod
run last year, in the old Plaza de Toros Champ de Mars, where the Arango, famous for contributing
to the avoidance of the poet Heredia and then married a Captain Field Assistant General Ricafort;
there sisters Aceval, Venus de Milo in the forms, so distinguished for his talent as for his unhappy
passions Alcázar sisters there, models of perfection, and by the symmetry of their tiny factions,
as the roses in her cheeks and the black of her hair there the Junco and Lamar, of Matanzas,
known under the vocative poetry of the Nymphs of Yumurí; there Gamboa's three sisters, which
we have already had occasion to describe him up there Topete daughter of General Commander of
the Naval Station in Havana, which later inspired his Palma immortal "Fifteen of August," there's
less of Gamez, Venus Belvedere, whose brown hair, copious wavy, wore loose star-studded gold,
there, in order, inter many too numerous to list, Ilincheta Isabel, daughter of former adviser
of Captain Someruelos General, who had the main features of severe type, modest Celtiberian,
it owed its origin.

As models of manly beauty, among the young attendees of the dance company that night, could be
mentioned Sunspear Lieutenant Colonel Rey, Rafael de la Torre, who died a few days later crashed
into the wheels of the chitin in the Walk, along the statue of Carlos III, a victim of the fire of
his horse and O'Gavan Bernardo Echeverría, in the days of gala liked to wear the uniform of
Chamber gentleman with input insofar as it might look well-made and plump legs, Ramón Montalvo
in his prime age, beautiful as the pure English blood, Joseph Gaston, the true Apollo of Cuba;
Dionisio Mantilla, newly arrived from France, which had made a compliment Paris; Diego Duarte,
the happy winner of the runs of reeds held the previous year, due to the marriage of Ferdinand
Maria Cristina of Naples, several naval officers and Spanish army in their colorful uniforms,
more appropriate to a stop a particular dance.

Also contributing to the luster of the festival the presence of some young people who began to distinguish
in the cultivation of letters, namely: Palma, who had been one of the competitors in the race
of reeds used in the Finance Echeverría, who the following year achieved the award in poetry
contest launched by the Literature Committee, to celebrate the birth of the Infanta of Castile,
Isabella of Bourbon Valdés Machuca, known as helpless in the republic letters; Policarpo Valdes,
who was signed Polidoro, Anacleto Bermudez, who used to publish verses under the name of delight,
Manuel Garay y Heredia, which printed his poems in The Aurora Matanzas, Velez Herrera, the
Cuban romance author Elvira de Oquendo, Delio, the singer the ruins of the Alhambra, Domingo André,
a young lawyer, eloquent and polite, Domingo del Monte, Cuba introduced
the romance of wide-ranging expertise and very distinguished bearing.

Diego Meneses, Francisco Solfa, Leonardo Gamboa and several others who were also in dance, with
the exception of the second was given to philosophical studies, and the third and entering
into the wealthy class, were not made notable by his talent, although the three used writing
in the literary journals, and the last went further by good-looking boy and masculine forms.
The literati, or rather, fans of the lyrics, especially who cultivated poetry, began to have
entry to people who could be taken by noble in Cuba, or aspiring, for his wealth, nobility
and alternated with her. Showed at least distinction by including some titled families of Havana
and appealed to their parties and meetings, including, for example, the counts of Fernandina,
the Bayonne house, the house Peñalver, the Marquis of Montehermoso and Arc. These parties and
meetings in the days Christmas Easter moved the prettiest coffee
in San Antonio, Alquízar, San Andrés and Artemis, who belonged to
the wealthy.

Were not in the halls of our friends Gamble Company, Meneses and Solfa but until about eleven
o'clock at night. During the early hours had been visiting Fair balls Angel, Farruco and de
Brito, not to mention the birthplace of people of color, Stonehouse Street, between Compostela
and Avocado. In none of these sites They had taken an active part, excepting the first, who
lost the game Mount in an instant the two ounces of gold that same evening he had put his mother
in the vest pocket. He knew the value of money or playing for the love of gain, but for the sake
of the excitement of the moment, but it happened that the dances did not pay attractive none,
defected to the pretty girls, who failed to see Cecilia Valdés in the window home, or in the crib,
all of which conspired to put it a very bad mood. To Unfortunate auction when losing and became
upset with his friends in search of chitin, I had left on the street bet Avocado away from the
high walls of the convent Santa Catalina, he discovered that was not there, nor was it possible
to find half an hour later and point opposite and distant.

Moreover, the coachman asked about the reason that led him to disobey an order strict his young
master, gave evasive answers to the top, and finally, tight, said a stranger, half covered
his face with a handkerchief, he had been forced to leave position and pretend to be returned
home, using dire threats. It did not seem credible the story: There was, however, that accept
as good and true, what, if anything, increased bad Leonardo humor, because if true the relationship
of the coachman, who could be this guy, or what have interest in the carriage wait in one or another
corner of the street? Why use threats? What had authority to do so? Aponte could not say whether
the unknown was military or civilian, district commissioner or magistrate, a white man or colored.
Maybe was an unexpected and unknown rival in that way was preparing
to dispute the love Cecilia Valdés.

Corroborated unpleasant suspicion that neither she nor her friend had Nemesia presented in any
part of the show Angel. Besides that, the fact of not having open the window, even when Gamboa
was the agreed signal from the tip of the cane for few balusters
that still had almost left no doubt that something extraordinary had
occurred in humble, dark home.

But this is what it may, there is no time to check now, Leonardo Gamboa entered the dance of
the Philharmonic worried and very bad mood.

      Navy, however, the dance, in the main
    hall of the palace and the room quite
    spacious by the way, says the poet
    

One night last, between crystals Light shimmered in the classroom; And the blood inflamed his sones,
Tropical dance;

our hero could not avoid its overpowering influence. The orchestra, directed by the famous Ulpiano
violinist, held the very wide corridor on the left hand as she climbs the the royal dark stone
staircase. Then, right, was the door of the room, opposite another that was about the most
spacious balconies, which were called the gates of the Rosary. Left hats and canes in the hands
of a black servant at the door of a room mezzanine open the rest of the double-leg ladder, and tending
the hearing by the magnificent hall, which could have "a horse race," if we are allowed to exaggerate,
students discovered that they filled animated couples end to end.

Received back men and women face as they waited their turn to sieve the fresh air of midnight,
coming through the doors and windows wide open.

As we said before, there were assembled the cream and flower of Cuban Youth of both sexes, delivered,
for the moment at least, with soul and body to your favorite. And in the glare of the chandeliers,
in waves of music as plaintive as voluptuous, because it comes from the heart of an enslaved
people, the subtle through the cloud of dust raised by the dancers
with their feet, women seemed more beautiful, the gallant men.

Could he therefore be given the encouragement of youth to other thoughts he suggested that the
flattering objects before him? It is not possible.

Gamboa took, of course, in seeking partner to take part in the dance, but not liked, but Meneses,
who rarely danced, and Solfa, who never danced, they were viewers in the middle of the room,
watching the last, with a bitter smile, that while that crazy youth
at home enjoyed the pleasures of the moment, the most stupid and brutal
of the kings of Spain seemed to contemplate with an air of utter contempt
from gold canopy where they saw his picture painted hateful.

Walking with some difficulty between the crowded rows of spectators and dancers, stumbled Gamboa
with the youngest of the girls Gamez, whose portrait we made up pen
flies in as committed to dance.

In all regards, while pivoting as a sylph in arms your partner, "she
said before the eyes than the tongue: - Here is Isabel.

- Dancing?
asked the young man.

- What dance!

Waiting for you

- Why me? What break yours. As a tris not come to the dance tonight.

In fact, that young lady was at that time in any appearance eating turkey, as reads vulgar phrase
in Cuba, ie, sitting to the left, near the door of the room between a middle-aged woman and
the cult lawyer Domingo André, who held animated conversation. Despite his carefree nature, Gamboa
felt a surge of jealousy it was impossible to suppress, not because they were really in love,
but because the gentleman in whose company he found, was handsome and knew Asaz insinuate themselves
into the minds of women discrete. In passing, we should say, however, that the northern compliments
by André that time, they went to another beauty very different from Isabel Ilincheta, it lost
by shy and daring won for the writer Dominican Domingo del Monte, if we're not wrong on the night
that we are talking about. As far as Elizabeth, Leonardo received with an adorable smile, which,
far from reassuring, was party to cause further distress. Changed the usual greetings, as the
companion of Elizabeth, mother of Gamez, was a friend the young student, like Andre, in proof
that there was nothing coquettish, not of vindictive, very cheerful
said:

- Said that this gentleman does little, he had committed this
dance, and I want to believe.

- Is that you have not danced any yet
that I know, "said André.

- True, only two have danced, "said Isabel
without cutting, but until now danced the third, did not come to invite
you.

- What it means in essence, continued André, I've arrived in
an unlucky hour.

How has to be!

- This lady is right, Leonardo brought parts of their pregnancy. For previous commitment, in
any dance where we are, I reserved it the third dance.

I can not make, Therefore, a better time as I see it. So they say you better be on time to
be around a year.

- I cried the gallant lawyer, the fact is that
few of us good girls that we time.

André was greeted and joined the choir at Aldama potentate two daughters,
of whom the youngest, named Lola, was down to very few that night
coveted palm of beauty.

Meanwhile Leonardo and Isabella, holding his hand, reached into the ranks of dance, not far from the
head, through mutual friends for that, but arrived late, left them
no join the queue, as was de rigueur.

The Cuban dance without a doubt that was invented to be court lovers. The dance itself is very
simple, comfortable and easy movements, being its primary purpose the approximation of the sexes,
in a country where the Moorish customs tend to their separation, in short, the communion of
souls. Because the gentleman has the lady almost always on edge, so that while with his right
arm around her waist, with the left hand pressed hers softly. Is not that dance, as the body is
merely the bars, is rocking like a dream, to the sound of music gemidora and voluptuous, it
is two people talking intimately dear is stroking two beings attract each other, and that time, space,
status, custom has kept away. The style is the man, someone said promptly, the dance is a people,
we say, and there is none like dance more alive to paint the character, habits, social status
political and Cubans, or you're more in harmony with the climate of the island

The night in question Ilincheta Isabel looked wonderfully natural graces that had endowed the
sky. She was tall, shapely, slender and elegantly dressed, So be very discreet and friendly, is said
to draw the attention of the educated. To smooth pallor of her face, languid expression of his clear
eyes and thin lips, contributed to make it attractive to a young man who, on the other hand, there
was nothing beautiful. His charm was in his word and his ways.

Entered puberty when she lost her mother, and to educate, as well as to free it of the dangers
of the world, her father placed in the care of Ursuline Sisters, coming from New Orleans and
settled in their convent door Earth since early this century. After a boarding more than four
years, he received religious education before scholarly, comprehensive, retired to the country,
in the coffee plantation his father, near the town of Alquízar, along with her younger sister and
an aunt Rosa, widow a naval surgeon, named Bohorques. This individual had made several trips to
the coast of Africa in shipments released on behalf of the Society of Gamboa and White. These
result contracted a terrible disease, died on the journey and thrown into the water, which many
of the unhappy savages who had helped to plagiarizing from his native soil. On more than one
occasion was the widow, on this subject, the object of the bounty of Don Candido Gamboa. Leonardo
visited her in the coffee plantation Alquízar, and could not help falling in love and niece, whose
modesty and thanks enhanced her clear intelligence and fine discretion.

There was nothing feminine roundness, and, of course, or pleasure, we have already mentioned, in
the forms of Isabel. And the reason was obvious: the pursuit on horseback, his favorite pastime
in the field, often swimming in the river of San Andres and San Juan de Contreras where all
the years spent bathing season, walks almost daily in the coffee his father and the neighbors,
their frequent exposure to the weather for fun and because of his
active life, had strengthened and developed his physique to the point
to make him lose the soft, rounded forms of the young men of his age
and status.

For lacked nothing manly and determined air of his person, should be added that shaded his mouth
expressive a dark mustache and silky, which was only one common tonsure to become in black mustache
and village. Following this bozo sometimes sticking white teeth, young and even, and behold what
was the magic of the smile of Elizabeth.

No wonder that, being somewhat skeptical and Leonardo off, felt a passion for a young woman such
as the one just described. He came by the golden gates of life. Despite its connotations and
its wealth, had not yet had intercourse with women their area and education, and had begun
to look at them nor their future companion life. His roughness was only external, was in his brusque
manner, because there in the bottom of his chest, as you have occasion to observe, there were endless
stream of generosity tenderness of feeling.

God, that, had not denied the ability to love, only the women they had met up there, or had
yielded to the impetuosity of his affections, at the fearlessness of his few years, or the influence
of his golden shower. None of these mobile could have influence on the mind of a young rich,
well educated, modest and virtuous as Isabel Ilincheta. Leonardo attracted first by their physical
clothes, seduced then by his outstanding moral qualities, of course understood that to win her
affection was playing strength your heart, speak to your understanding. Moreover, the woman
who appeared to Leonardo's eyes in a new light, inhabited the transcript of the earthly paradise
where saw for the first time.

If we can dispense with the slave and of his sufferings, which are, however, more bearable in coffee,
it will agree that Elizabeth, her sister Rosa, his aunt Juana, his father and raised, lived a
life of peace and quiet away from the bustle of the city, surrounded by fragrant flowers, the
trees and evergreen orange, the graceful palms, the classic plantain, perennial astounded with
the singing of the birds and the rustle of the breeze melancholy in the fields of Cuba.
  It was to see in her husband--the man to whom, whatever he was, she was tied and
bound for life--that something without which no woman can wholly respect any man--the power
of asserting and of maintaining authority; not that arbitrary, domineering rule which springs
from the blind egotism of personal will, and which every other conscientious will, be it of
wife, child, servant, or friend, instinctively resists, and, ought to resist, but calm, steadfast,
just, righteous authority.  There is an old rhyme,

    "A spaniel, a woman, and a walnut-tree,
     the more ye thrash 'em, the better they be;"

which rhyme is not true.  But there lies a foundation of truth under it, that no woman ever
perfectly loves a man who is not strong enough to make her also obey.

As Dr. Grey went out of the room, and the minute following, as with an after-thought, put in
his head again, saying, "Christian, I want you!" she followed him with a lighter heart than
she had had for many weary days.

Chapter 4.

    "The little griefs--the petty wounds--
     The stabs of daily care--
     'Crackling of thorns beneath the pot,'
     As life's fire burns--now cold, now hot--
     How hard they are to bear!

    "But on the fire burns, clear and still;
     The cankering sorrow dies;
     The small wounds heal; the clouds are rent,
     And through this shattered mortal tent
     Shine down the eternal skies."

"Dr. Grey, as to-day is your 'at home'--at least, as much of an 'at home' as is possible under
the circumstances--I wished to inquire, once for all, what is to be done about the Fergusons?"

"About whom?  I beg pardon.  Henrietta, but what were you talking about?"

Which, as she had been talking "even on" all breakfast-time, either to or at the little circle,
including Letitia and Arthur, was not an unnecessary question.

"I referred to your wife's friends and late employers, the Fergusons, of High Street.  As she
was married from their house, and as, of course, they will only be too glad to keep up her
acquaintance, they will doubtless appear to-day.  In that case, much as we should regret it,
your sister and myself must decline being present.  We can not possibly admit such people into
our society.  Isn't it so--eh, Maria?"

Maria, thus sharply appealed to, answered with her usual monosyllable.

Dr. Grey looked at his wife in a puzzled, absent way.  He was very absent--there was no doubt
of it--and sometimes, seemed as shut up in himself as if he had lived a bachelor all his life.
Besides, he did not readily take in the small wrongs--petty offenses--which make half the misery
of domestic life, and are equally contemptible in the offender and the offended.  There was
something pathetically innocent in the way he said.

"I really do not quite understand.  Christian, what does it all mean?"

"It means," said Christian, trying hard to restrain an indignant answer, "that Miss Gascoigne
is giving herself a great deal of needless trouble about a thing which will never happen. 
My friends, the Fergusons, may call to-day--I did not invite them, though I shall certainly
not shut the door upon them--but they have no intention whatever of being on visiting terms
at the Lodge, nor have I of asking them."

"I am glad to hear it," said Miss Gascoigne--"glad to see that you have so much good taste
and proper feeling, and that all my exertions in bringing you--as I hope to do to-day--for
the first time into our society will not be thrown away."

Christian was not a very proud woman--that is, her pride lay too deep below the surface to
be easily ruffled, but she could not bear this.

"If by our 'society' you mean my husband's friends, to whom he is to introduce me, I shall
be most happy always to welcome them to his house; but if you imply that I am to exclude my
own--honest, worthy, honorable people, uneducated though they may be--I must altogether decline
agreeing with you.  I shall do no such thing."

"Shall you do, then?" said Miss Gascoigne, after a slight pause; for she did not expect such
resistance from the young, pale, passive creature, about whom, for the last few days she had
rather changed her mind, and treated with a patronizing consideration, for Aunt Henrietta liked
to patronize; it pleased her egotism; besides, she was shrewd enough to see that an elegant,
handsome girl, married to the Master of Saint Bede's, was sure soon to be taken up by somebody;
better, perhaps; by her own connections than by strangers.  So--more blandly than might have
been expected--she asked, "What shall you do?"

"What seems to me--as I think it will to Dr. Grey"--with a timid glance at him, and a wish
she had found courage to speak to him first on this matter, "the only right thing I can do.
Not to drag my friends into society where they would not feel at home, and which would only
look down upon them, but to make them understand clearly that I--and my husband--do not look
down upon them; that we respect them, and remember their kindness.  We may not ask Mr. Ferguson
to dinner--he would find little to say to University dons; and as for his wife"--she could
not forbear a secret smile at the thought of the poor dear woman, with her voluble affectionateness
and her gowns of all colors, beside the stately, frigid, perfectly dressed, and unexceptionably--mannered
Miss Gascoigne--"whether or not Mrs. Ferguson is invited to the series of parties that you
are planning, I shall go and see her, and she shall come to see me, as often as ever I please."

This speech, which began steadily enough, ended with a shaky voice and flashing eye, which,
the moment it met Dr. Grey's, gravely watching her, sank immediately.

"That is," she added gently, "If my husband has no objection."

"None," he said, but drew ink and paper to him, and sat down to write a note, which he afterward
handed over to Christian, then addressing his sister-in-law, "I have invited Mr. and Mrs. Ferguson
to dine with us-- just ourselves, as you and Maria will be out--at six o'clock to-morrow. And
oh!"--with a weary look, as if he were not so insensible to this petty domestic martyrdom as
people imagined--"do, Henrietta, let us have a little peace."

It was in vain.  Even Dr. Grey's influence could not heal the wounded egotism of this unfortunate
lady.

"Peace!  Do you mean to say that it is I who make dispeace!  But if you, having known what
a good, obedient wife really is, can submit to such unwarrantable dictation; and if I, or Maria,
your own sister (Maria, why don't you speak?), can not offer one word of advice to a young
person, who, as might be expected, is entirely ignorant of the usages of society--is, in fact,
a perfect child--"

"She is my wife!" said Dr. Grey, so suddenly and decisively that even Christian, who had been
reading the note with a grateful heart for kindness shown for her sake, involuntarily started.

My wife.  He said only those two words, yet somehow they brought a tear in her eye.  The sense
of protection, so new and strange, was also pleasant.  She could have fought her own battles--at
least she could once--without bringing him into them; but when he stood there, with his hand
on her shoulder, simply saying those words, which implied, or ought to imply, every thing that
man is to woman, and every thing that woman needs, she became no longer warlike and indignant,
but humble, passive, and content.

And long after Dr. Gray was gone away, with his big book under his arm, and Miss Gascoigne,
in unutterable wrath and scorn, had turned from her and began talking volubly to poor Aunt
Maria at the fireside, the feeling of content remained.

There was a long pause, during which the two children, Letitia and Arthur, who had listened
with open eyes and ears to what was passing among their elders, now, forgetting it all, crept
away for their usual half-hour of after-breakfast play in the end window of the dining-room.

Christian also took her work, and began thinking of other things.  She neither wished to fight
or be fought for, particularly in such a petty domestic war. One of the many advantages among
the many disadvantages of a girlhood almost entirely removed from the society of women was
that it had saved her from women's smallnesses. Besides, her nature itself was large, like
her person--large, and bounteous, and sweet; it refused to take in those petty motives which
disturb petty minds.  Life to her was a grand romantic drama,--perhaps, alas! a tragedy--but
it never could be made into a genteel comedy, with childish intrigues, Liliputian battles,
tempests in teapots, or thunders made upon kettle-drums.

Thus, concluding the temporary storm was over, and almost forgetting it at the half-hour's
end, she called cheerfully to the children to get ready for a walk with her this sunshiny morning.

Miss Gascoigne rose, her black eyes flashing: "Children, you will not leave the house.  You
will walk with nobody but your own proper nurse.  It was your poor mamma's custom and, though
she is dead, her wishes shall be carried out, at least so long as I am alive."

Christian stood utterly amazed.  Her intention had been so harmless; she had thought the walk
good for the children, and perhaps good for herself to have their company.  She had meant to
take them out with her the first available day, and begin a regular series of rambles, which
perhaps might win their little hearts toward her, for they still kept aloof and shy; and now
all her pleasant plans were set aside.

And there the children stood, half frightened, half amused, watching the conflict of authority
between their elders.  One thing was clear. There must be no bringing them into the contest.
Christian saw that, and with a strong effort of self-control she said to Miss Gascoigne,

"I think, before we discuss this matter, the children had better leave the room.  Go, Atty
and Titia; your aunts and I will send word to the nursery by-and-by."

The children went obediently, though Christian heard Arthur whisper to his sister something
about "such a jolly row?"  But there was none.

Miss Gascoigne burst forth into a perfect torrent of words directed not to Mrs. Grey, but at
her, involving such insinuations, such accusations, that Christian, who had never been used
to this kind of things stood literally astounded.

She answered not a word; she could not trust herself to speak.  She had meant so kindly: was
so innocent of any feeling save a wish to be good and motherly to these motherless children.
Besides, she had such an intense craving for their affection, and even their companionship,
for there were times when her life felt withering up within her--chilled to death by the gloom
of the dull home, with its daily round of solemn formalities.  If she had spoken, she would
have burst into tears.  To save herself from this, she rose and left the parlor.

It might have been weak, unworthy a woman of spirit; but Christian was, in one sense--not Miss
Gascoigne's--still a very child.  And most childlike in their passionate bitterness, their
keen sense of injustice, were the tears she shed in her own room, alone.  For she did not go
to Dr. Grey: why should she?  Her complaints could only wound him: and somehow she scorned
to complain.  She had not been a governess for two years without learning that authority propped
up by extraneous power is nearly useless, and that, between near connections, love commanded,
not won, generally results in something very like hatred.

Besides, was there not some truth in what the aunt said?   Had she--the second wife--authority
over the first Mrs. Grey's children?   Would it not be better to let them alone, for good or
for evil, and trouble herself about their welfare no more?  But just that minute Oliver's little
feet went pattering outside the door--Oliver, who, still a nursery pet, was freer than the
others, and who had already learned where to come of forenoons for biscuits to eat or toys
to be mended.  There was now a one-wheeled cart and a three-legged horse requiring Christian's
tenderest attention; and as she sat down on the crimson sofa, and busied herself over them,
with the little eager face creeping close to hers, and the little fat arm steadying itself
round her neck, her wet eyes soon grew dry and bright, and her heart less sore, less hopeless.
The small, necessities of the present, which make children's company so soothing, quieted her
now; and by the time she had watched the little fellow run away, dragging his cart and horse
down the oak floor, shouting "Gee- ho!" and turning round often to laugh at her, Christian
felt that life looked less blank and dreary than it had done an hour ago.

Still, when she had dressed herself in the violet silk and Honiton lace which Miss Gascoigne
had informed her were necessary--oh, how she had been tormented about the etiquette of this
"at home"--the cloud darkened over her again.  What should she do or say to these strange people?--the
worse, that they were not quite strangers--that she knew them by report or by sight--and, alack!
from her father's ill name they knew her only too well.  How they would talk her over and criticise
her, in that small way in which women do criticise one another, and which she now, for the
first time in her life, had experienced.  Was it the habit of all University ladies?  If so,
how would she endure a whole lifetime of that trivial ceremoniousness in outside things, those
small back-bitings and fault-findings, such as the two aunts indulged in?  It was worse, far
worse, than poor Mrs. Ferguson's stream of foolish maternalities--vulgar, but warm and kindly,
and never ill-natured; and oh! ten times worse than anything Christian had known in her girlhood,
which had been forlorn indeed, but free; when she had followed through necessity her nomadic
father, who had at any rate, left her alone, to form her own mind and character as she best
could.  Of man's selfishness and badness she knew enough; but of women's small sillinesses,
narrow formalities, and petty unkindnesses, she was utterly ignorant till now.

"How shall I bear them?  Let Dr. Grey be ever so good to me, still, how shall I bear them?"
She sighed, she almost sobbed, and pressed her cheek wearily against the frosty pane, for she
was sitting in a window- seat on the staircase, lingering till the last possible instant before
the hour when Miss Gascoigne had said she ought to be in her place in the drawing-room.

"My dear, are you not afraid of catching cold?" said the hesitating voice of Miss Grey.  "Besides,
will not the servants think it rather odd, your sitting here on the staircase?  Bless me, my
dear, were you crying?"

"No," answered Christian, energetically, "no!" and then belied her truthfulness by bursting
immediately into tears.

Miss Grey was melted at once.  "There, now, my dear, take my smelling-bottle; you will be better
soon; it is only a little over- excitement.  But, indeed, you need not mind; our friends--that
is, Henrietta's--for you know I seldom visit--are all very nice people, and they will pay every
respect to my brother's wife.  Do not be frightened at them."

"I was not frightened," replied Mrs. Grey, more inclined to smile than to be offended at this
earnest condolence.  "What troubled me was quite another thing."

"Henrietta.  perhaps?" with an uneasy glance up the staircase.  "But my dear, you must not
mind Henrietta; she means well.  You don't know how busy she has been all the morning, arranging
every thing.  'For,' says she to me, 'since your brother has married again, we must make the
best of it, and introduce his wife into society, and be very kind to her.' And I am sure I
hope we are,"

"Thank you," said Christian, somewhat haughtily, till touched by the mild deprecation of that
foolish, gentle face, so gentle as half to atone for its foolishness.

"You see, my dear, your marriage was much worse to her than to me, because Mrs. Grey was her
own sister, while Arnold is my brother. And all I want in the wide world is to see my brother
happy.  I hope it isn't wrong of me, but I don't think quite as dear Henrietta does.  I always
felt that dear Arnold might marry any body he pleased, and I should be sure to love her if
only she made him happy.  But, hush!  I hear somebody coming."

And the poor little lady composed herself into some pretense of indifference when Christian
rose from the windowsill, and stood like a queen--or rather like what she tried to say to herself,
so as to keep up her matronly dignity, whenever passionate, girlish grief or anger threatened
to break it down, "like Dr. Grey's wife."

Miss Gascoigne stopped benignly, much to Christian's surprise, for she did not guess what a
wonderful influence clothes have in calming down ill tempers.  And Miss Gascoigne was beautifully
dressed--quite perfect from top to toe; and she was such a handsome woman still, that it was
quite a pleasure to look at her, as she very well knew.  She had come direct from her mirror,
and was complacent accordingly.  Also, she felt that domestic decorum must be preserved on
the "at home" day.

"That is a very pretty dress you have on; I suppose Dr. Grey bought it in London?"

"Yes."

"Did he choose it likewise?"

"I believe so."

"My sister always chose her own dresses; but then she paid for them too.  She had a little
income of her own, which is a very good thing for a wife to have."

"A very good thing."

"Indeed, Mrs. Grey, I scarcely expected you to think so."

"I think," said Christian, firmly, though for the moment the silk gown seemed to burn her arms,
and the pearl brooch and lace collar to weigh like lead on her bosom,  "I think that in any
true marriage it does not signify one jot whether the husband or the wife has the money.  Shall
we go down stairs?"

There was time for the hot cheek to cool and the angry heart to be stilled a little before
the visitors came.

Miss Gascoigne had truly remarked that the master's wife was unaccustomed to society--that
society which forms the staple of all provincial towns, well dressed, well mannered, well informed.
But it seemed to Christian as if these ladies, though thoroughly ladylike in manner, which
was very grateful to her innate sense of refinement, all dressed after one fashion, and talked
mostly about the same things.  To her, ungifted with the blessed faculty of small talk, the
conversation appeared somewhat frivolous, unreal, and uninteresting.  She hardly knew what
to say or how to say it, yet was painfully conscious that her every word and every look were
being sharply criticised, either in the character of Edward Oakley's daughter or Dr. Grey's wife.

"At least he shall not be ashamed of me," was the thought that kept her up through both weariness
and resentment, and she found herself involuntarily looking toward the door every time it opened.
Would he come in?  At least his presence would bring her that sense of relief and protection
which she had never failed to feel from the first hour she knew Dr. Arnold Grey.

He did come in, though not immediately, and passing her with a smile, which doubtless furnished
the text for a whole week's gossip in Avonsbridge, went over to talk to a group of ladies belonging
to Saint Bede's.

And now for the first time Christian saw what her husband was "in society."

Next to a bad man or a fool, of all things most detestable is "a man of society;" a brilliant,
showy person, who gathers round him a knot of listeners, to whom his one object is to exhibit
himself.  But it is no small advantage for a man, even a clever or learned man, to feel and
appear at home in any company; to be neither eccentric, nor proud nor shy; to have a pleasant
word or smile for every body both; to seem and to be occupied with other people instead of
with himself, and with what other people are thinking about him; in short, a frank, kindly,
natural gentleman, so sure both of his position and himself that he takes no trouble in the
assertion of either, but simply devotes himself to making all about him as comfortable and
happy as he can.  And this was Dr. Arnold Grey.

He talked little and not brilliantly, but he knew how to make other people talk.  By some subtle,
fine essence in his own nature, he seemed to extract the best aroma from every other; and better
than most conversation was it to look at his kindly, earnest, listening face, as, in the pauses
of politeness, Christian did look more than once; and a thrill shot through her, the consciousness,
dear to every woman, of being proud of her husband.  Ay, whether she loved him, or not, she
was certainly proud of him.

In all good hearts, love's root is in goodness.  Deeper than even love itself is that ideal
sense of being satisfied--satisfied in all one's moral nature, in the craving of one's soul
after what seems nearest perfection. And though in many cases poor human hearts are so weak,
or strong-- which is it?--that we cling to imperfectness, and love it simply because we love
it with a sort of passionate pity, ever hoping to have its longings realized, still this kind
of love is not the love which exalts, strengthens, glorifies.  Sooner or later it must die
the death.  It had no root, and it withers away whereas, let there be a root and ever such
a small budding of leaves, sometimes merciful nature makes it grow.

Christian looked at her husband many times, stealthily, whenever he did not notice her.  She
liked to look at him.  She liked to judge his face, not with the expression it wore toward
herself; that she knew well--alas! too well; but as it was when turned toward other people,
interested in them and in the ordinary duties of life, which sometimes, when absorbed in a
passionate love, a man lets slip for the time.  Now she saw him as he was in reality, the head
of his family, the master of his college, the center of a circle of friends; doing his work
in the world as a man ought to do it, and as a woman dearly loves to see him do it. Christian's
eye brightened, and a faint warmth seemed creeping into her dull, deadened heart.

While she was thinking thus, and wondering if it were real, her heart suddenly stopped still.

It was only at the sound of a name, repeated in idle conversation by two ladies behind her.

"Edwin Uniacke!  Yes, it is quite true.  My husband was speaking of it only this morning. 
He is Sir Edwin Uniacke now, with a large fortune besides."

"He didn't deserve it.  If ever there was an utter scapegrace, it was he. He broke his poor
mother's heart; she died during that affair.  The dean must have known all about it?"

"Yes, but he and the master kept it very much to themselves.  My husband hates talking; and
as for Dr. Grey--"

"The dean paid me a long visit this morning, Mrs. Brereton," suddenly interrupted Dr. Grey.
"We were congratulating ourselves on our prospects.  We think there are one or two men who
will do Saint Bede's great credit next year."

"That is well.  But my husband says it will be long before we get a man like one whom I was
just speaking of--Mr. Uniacke--Sir Edwin he is now.  He has succeeded to the baronetcy.  Of
course you have heard of this?"

"I have," briefly answered Dr. Grey.

And the dean's wife, who had all the love of talking which the dean had not, mingled with a
little nettled sense of balked curiosity, then turned to Mrs. Grey.

"You must have heard of that young man, and the scandal about him; it was only a year ago that
he was rusticated.  Such a pity!  He was a most clever fellow--good at every thing.  And quite
a genius for music.  To hear him sing and play was delightful!  And yet he was such a scamp--a
downright villain."

"My dear Mrs. Brereton," said Dr. Grey, "nobody is quite a villain at twenty.  And if he were,
don't you think that the less we talk about villains the better?"

So the conversation dropped--dropped as things do drop every day, under the smooth surface
of society, which handles so lightly edged tools, and treads so gaily upon bomb-shells, with
the fuses just taken out in time.

"I am very tired," said Mrs. Grey, while Dr. Grey was seeing the last of the visitors to their
carriage.  "I think I will go at once to my own room".

"Do so," replied Aunt Maria.  "Indeed, it has been a very fatiguing day for you, and for us
all.  Go, and I will tell Arnold you are dressing.  It only wants half an hour to dinner."

"I will be ready."

And so she was.  But for twenty of the thirty minutes she had lain motionless on her bed, almost
like a dead figure, as passive and as white.  Then she rose, dressed herself, and went down
to the formal meal, and to the somber, safe routine of her present existence, as it would flow
on--and she prayed with all her heart it might--until she died.

Chapter 5.

    "He stands a-sudden at the door,
     And no one hears his soundless tread,
     And no one sees his veiled head,
     Or silent hand, put forth so sure,

    "To grasp and snatch from mortal sight;
     Or else benignly turn away,
     And let us live our little day,
     And tremble back into the light:

    "But though thus awful to our eyes,
     He is an angel in disguise."

Every human being, and certainly every woman, has, among the various ideals of happiness, good
to make, if never to enjoy, one special ideal---that great necessity of every tender heart---Home.

Christian had made hers, built her castle in Spain, and furnished and adorned it from basement
to battlement, even when she was a girl of fourteen.  Sitting night after night alone, listening
for the father's footstep, and then trembling when she heard it, or hidden away up in her own
bedroom, her sole refuge from the orgies that took place below, where the sound of music, exquisite
music, went up like the cry of an angel imprisoned in a den of brutes, the girl had imagined
it all. And through every vicissitude, hidden closer for its utter contrast to all the associations
and experience of her daily life, Christian Oakley had kept in her heart its innocent, womanly
ideal of home.

Now, she had the reality.  And what was it?

Externally it looked very bright.  Peeping into that warm, crimson- tinted dining-room at the
hour between dinner and tea, when the whole family at the lodge were sure to be assembled there,
any body would say what a happy family it was, and what a pleasant picture it made. Father
and mother at either end of the table; children on both sides of it; and the two elderly aunts
seated comfortably in their two arm-chairs at the fireside, one knitting--q. e. d.--, sleeping,
the other--

No.  Miss Gascoigne never slept.  Her sharp,

    "Flaw-seeking eyes, like needles' points,"

were always open, and more especially when the circle consisted, as now, of her brother-in-law,
his children, and his new wife.  Doubtless she considered watchfulness her duty.  Indeed, as
she explained over and over again to Aunt Maria, the principal reason which made her consent
still to remain at the Lodge, instead of returning to her own pretty cottage at Avonside, was
to overlook and guard the interests of "those poor motherless children." Is the beautiful light that reverberates on the horizon is more
than a vibration of matter? That bird that cleaves the air and plunges into the water catch
and devour a hapless fish, what mystery stored inside your body? How do I treat I am nothing
more than an individual expression of the force that animates all beings Universe?

But when these thoughts, always horrible, I squeezed as the strings of a colt made it irresistible
when he was rushing to time exercise any function of their sacred ministry. If we celebrate
the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass or give absolution crossed a penitent spirit of these dark
thoughts, I felt the same impression if you gripped the brain with a hot iron, he assaulted a
heartbreak that left him paralyzed. I thought dying. I longed to get rid of that ordeal.

One day he was told to bring Viaticum to a village near the town. As needed some time walking
across the fields, was no bell and summon the faithful. Left alone with the clerk, the body bag
slung over her neck and the Sacred. The road stretches clung to the edge of the sea. As always
fascinated by the immensity of ocean, distracted his attention from the ineffable mystery that
wore on his chest, stopped stammer prayers and gave his thoughts to the same meditations that night
and day was upon him long time. The sun's rays scattered on the glass of water compelled him
to action considered supreme, omnipotent in this star on Earth life. It is he who has created
the observer, who renewed. The flower owes its perfume, its fierce agility and bloodthirsty
instinct, our sweetest soul impressions or terrible. The Sun is the father of all, love and
hate. Then considered that life is more than a immense dynamism within which transform the
formidable forces of physics and chemistry. All beings on earth, humans, animals, plants, are
closely linked. Life of these is a single, universal life and this is not nothing but a constant change
materials. A universal movement drags the atoms, as the worlds. Thousand ripples intersect in
the atmosphere, a thousand forces combine, heat and light, the affinity and magnetism join
the mysteries of the vegetable and mineral. All beings are made of the same molecules, which pass
successively and regardless of each other, so nothing property belongs to them. Our body is
renewed so that after a certain time and we have not an ounce of body material that we had before.
This renewal movement operating in each of the animals in each of the plants. The millions who
inhabit the surface of the globe live in mutual exchange of organisms. The oxygen molecule now
breathed breath was yesterday one of the trees lining the road. The molecule carbon burning in one
of these piles of dried leaves used to fertilize the soil, may have burned yesterday in the
lungs of a hero. Perhaps one of those oyster shells lying attached to these rocks to hide the
match that was most precious fibers the brain of Jesus Christ ...

He felt within himself something that tears and falls. I had completely forgotten that led
him the divine body of the Redeemer. It seemed a thing so strange, so out of touch eternal saw
and touched, she imagined must be dreaming.

And without knowing what his dark hole be coming, we undertook a fierce desire, wicked, laugh.
What comedy was it? A little flour mixed and toast yesterday's housekeeper D. Miguel was transformed
if by magic in the person of Jesus Christ, a being who disappeared from among the living does
nineteen centuries. "These sovereign laws, sublime nature, be raped because few insects in
this microscopic world council meeting in the decree? Separated eyes from the sea and set
in the sexton, who ran before whistling to his dog, which escaped after some chickens. What
reverence of the man, leading his side to God of heaven, the Creator of all things! And the laughter
rose from the chest when with more energy, reaching to the throat, he played on his lips, was
about to explode. A tremor caused him to miss teeth chattering, and he felt his forehead bathed
in a cold sweat, is troubled him suddenly in sight, and fell unconscious. When he recovered,
was sexton's arms and two or three peasants who roamed around. She had bathed her face with
cold water, opened his robe and removed his collar. One of them threw smoke cigar nose. The
body bag with the body lying on the divine Redeemer the boundary wall of a meadow. Fr Gil was
quick to pick her up, slung it back to the neck, and after a moment to pray on his knees, and
went on without removing your eyes from the ground.

IX

Her confessor, until he withdrew the licenses had been D. Miguel.
Mutually confessed, as happens among the clergy.

With whom he was first informed his doubts.

The old leader was more surprised than shocked them. Thing seemed as insubstantial not worth much
time fixing the attention. The dogmas were to him as physical laws of gravity, the inscrutability,
etc. We were relying on them without thinking its existence. All the moving drama of passion
and death of Jesus looked at the pastor of rocks in the background as a kind of romanticism
that serves as accompaniment required to the true religion. This was the Mass, the responses,
the prayer of the day, the rosary, Abstinence from meat on days of wakefulness, especially
in parochial rights, maybe judged simultaneous with the act of creation. There he stood, then,
to analyze and dispel the doubts of his excuse. "Go ahead .-- .-- Ignore Patarata! - Be be .--
Another hit you! - How not had to rise the third day, fool? Can not you see what says San
Juan and San Mateo and San Marcos? "These were the consolations usually lavished on him.

Our priest was sad at times with them, but others are comforted thinking should not be so condemned
and cursed when D. Miguel took the terrible doubt so calm. When he
withdrew the licenses had no choice but to seek another confessor.

Convinced of the hostility with which he watched D. Narciso, D. Melchior and D. Joaquin declined
with any of them vent their conscience, but knew that the tribunal of Penance have nothing to do
likes and dislikes. He went to a young chaplain, more he still young, fresh from the seminary.
He was the son of a carpenter in the village, so timid and shrunken who could barely say hello,
happy to be elevated above its former condition, pay an unlimited respect for all the grandeur of heaven
and all the little things land. This was vividly impressed with the confession of P. Gil,
and of course tried to convince him that everything came from the devil and that there was
no other choice but to put the cross and be good subjects, to pray and fast a lot. In a spirit
of humility and obedience, the toilet did as his confessor he sent secretly persuaded, without
But that would not advance anything. Even before the media had tried, without success. Doubts
were tormenting him, offered him more and more cruel, more imposing. The timid chaplain spent
a little bitter every time I confessed, shivering and bewildered as if calamity befalls him, both
suffering and such fears assailed him, who knows what, little by little was apologizing to
hear him in confession and concluded by refusing at all.

Then he thought of going to see D. Restituto, pastor of one of the villages Peñascosa immediate,
man walking between his companions advised, prudent and bookish. Was said I had a great library
and that in his youth had done most brilliant exercises Lancia one
of the perks of the cathedral, and that did not receive one because
the bishop had reserved for a nephew.

Don Restituto, hurt by the injustice he had retired to rural parish, and never wanted to leave him to
try new contest. If continued toward the study of theology or she paid in the slight he had received,
it is not known with certainty. He liked, yes, when a party or funeral he met with his companions,
show scholarship and to exceed in wit and subtlety to defend any proposition, but the priests of
the parishes immediate all were moralists, that is, none had studied theology can race more than
him. Few thank the landslide in disputes desktop. Moreover, D. Restituto farm was so far and
was so interested in it, I should not have much time or humor, either, to deepen the dogmatic or
the Patrologia.

Our anguished priest came one evening after dinner, and directed his steps towards the village
where dwelt the theologian. I knew a lot, but not dealt with privacy. Was remote village half
a league. The road was varied and picturesque with narrow streets high hedges of bramble, pieces
of wood, vereditas between the cornfields and trails through meadows.

At the entrance to a gorge, on a plain of corn and taking back some grassland delicious, was
seated the main village of the parish. The church and rectory were a good distance away, in a narrow
dark and wet. All slept in silence most complete when the young priest arrived. Chickens pecked
in the street in front of the house, a Manx cat was washing his face sitting on the boundary
wall of the garden, and a mastiff earless slept face down on the table in the house nearby barn.
The mastiff was responsible for breaking the peace of that place, rising angrily against the upstart,
barking with a hoarse shout, off, witness his decrepitude. Fr Gil stood still, and began to say
sweet tone and persuasive

- Take, take! Quis, quis!

That if you want! The mastiff, watching the newcomer shrink, it grew horribly. Wow, Wow! he shouted,
looking fierce and menacing record he could find in his chest.

At the same time extermination riveting look at the priest and went,
though cautious, to him.

That, terrified by those wild barking, swam three or four steps back and spread the arm with the
umbrella, which brought to remove the sun, forward. "Umbrellas! The appeal of cowards, "he must
have thought the mastiff. And so bristled at this outrage, which I had not had a good cleric not
to leave the door an old screaming:

- Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Here, Cuckoo! Outside, Cuckoo! Damn dog! Here! ... Here! Come here!

The dog hesitated for a moment, stopped barking and was quite clearly
the decision to become back to sleep as if nothing had happened, but
the old woman was satisfied; required an act of submission.

- Here,
Cuckoo!

Here, now!

El Cuco humbly bowed his head toward her and began a slow, excruciating,
as if the path was fraught with danger.

- Here!

Come here!

"I is you, awful!"

Is said the dog, who did not effect the pomps and vanities.

And he advanced with even greater caution, lock the hoof at each step he took, shook the tail of a
rapid mode.

- Here! Here! - Was shouting the old.

Finally, at a maximum speed of six steps per minute, arrived at their destination Cuco. The old
caught him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard. The dog a howl of pain.
Then he took the other, and many other tugs. More and more still sad howl. Fulfilled his duties
with the law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under
some curses and blasphemies. This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person
suspected as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory. El Cuco deplored in their hearts
that had not shaved best ears.

- Afternoon, D. Gil - said the old, angry expression suddenly changing
the other smiling melosísima, showing who knew him.

Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and
asked D. Restituto.

- The priest must be toward the barn.

Come in, D. Gil. I'll call him.

- No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ...

- Yes, sir, here behind the house.

He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and found a miserable factory made
of uncut stones from the river only, with a rickety door. It was locked, and nobody was there before.
Going to leave that place and come back to home behind the barn when he heard the sound of
voices. He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto, not a little surprised the suit and
the situation in which he appeared.

The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they spend the peasants through the
land, wore on her feet clogs with socks of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning
linen shirt he loves, without collar or anything like it. Was the costume of a peasant, without
removing it or put anything. But what really made pilgrim and outlandish attire is that the old
head and wore a greasy cap.

Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned
the occupation that the pastor was delivered.

I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf. He helped in the operation servant.
The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now. He turned his head D. Restituto steps, feeling,
and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody
hands clutching a huge knife.

- What miracle is this, man?

The future priest Peñascosa deigns to visit us!

... Look, do not shake hands, because you see how I have it.

Good health, right? ... Not here no novelty.

D. Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview. When Gil had explained
the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond:

- Well, well. I will close immediately. Go home, and wait.

But the young man expressed a desire to go to church.

- To the church? - Said in surprise. Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
No problem. Calls to love the key, and wait there. It will not take.

Would to God that had taken more! And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash. For the
theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse. While confession lasted, and lasted
a long time, Fr Gil could hardly think of anything else. He felt suffocated for that foul smell;
acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes. Don
Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Each question his troubled penitent offered him, he answered triumphantly with a Latin text.
As the veteran off-hook with joy their weapons to the signal of war, the old opponent of the
Lancia picked lectoralía of memory texts already Perronne rusty and
Balmes.

How can one doubt of immortality the soul, when it is something simple, and simple things
can not be broken? Who dare to imagine that the Catholic Church may someday die, when there
bleeding Christ's words: "The gates of hell shall not prevail (non prœvalebunt?)" How be given
more credence to the word of men than of God? What! Divine Wisdom has said: "For this I was
born and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth? "And this testimony is not
is clear and well illustrated in the works visible exceed the natural power, for example, in
healing the sick, the resurrection of the dead and other wonderful miracles performed by Our
Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles?

Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto who
doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry. Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged
from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance,
our priest fell ill. Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea. On
the back porch all food. The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage,
the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion,
I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication. The pastor then
went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables. There was not a flower or ornamental shrub. From
there they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall. D. Restituto began
giving instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting
all about his guest.

One of the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above
the water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels. D. Restituto was furious and announced plans
Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses. Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his
property was respected. From there he ran into the cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with
extreme joy the great state of plants. The water had come just in time, but most of the water
was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had missed.

- You say: where you can make D. Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen? I'll
tell you. I, though I have nine heads of cattle, could not pay even
half of the land that I have.

Here's intelectus! In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to whom it is
not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage or anything. However, these
calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their
homes (commonly pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse.

With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle manure is crossing becomes after some
time pass. When it is well rotted and I'll bring me forming lot until the time comes to distribute
the land. What?

From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow. D. Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp, mocking
laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity.

- This is the meadow below the mill ... the meadow below the mill, you already know ... How?
Do not you know the history of this field? Well, much has run the town ... Belonged to the meek
of the parish, and had been trasconejado when selling them. I had, and nobody in the parish
dared to denounce him. But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God,
last year), and that he was eager Lino the meadow. At the end gave the breath in the administration,
keeping the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction. Two days before done,
came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill,
but if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do
not want, you can top it when you like," I replied. The man, seeing that I went to auction, and knowing
that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy. Lancia Y sent to his
cousin.

But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred goods
topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and put him forty dollars in hand.
What was the man do? It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next
breath ... What a laugh that was assembled in the town, buddy!

Lino ill with rabies, and as was presented occasion that was after two months, coming from a
pilgrimage, he stuck a knife to his cousin ... But, go, good rooms that cost him so puñaladita!
He did not do ten thousand.

As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for
cider, D. Restituto led back to his penitent home and invited him
to chocolate.

But the toilet was still not good. Also in a hurry. Refused all treat and started Peñascosa
way. The priest accompanied him some distance.

Out and understanding
their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that
his heart was seized with serious thoughts, D. Restituto wanted to
return to the load though he seemed well established that all doubts
of his companion were only that pumps soap, which breaks with a blow
anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology.

- You look out, dear
- he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary
to reason, but above it.  When he came back he found Letitia and the nurse sent away.
Christian hardly knew how she managed it, but she did do it, for it was necessary; Arthur must
be kept quiet.  She was now sitting in the silent, half-dark room, with the boy lying quite
still and patient now, his little hot hand clinging fast to hers.

"How content he seems with you!  He does not want Phillis, I think."

"No! no! no!" cried Arthur, violently.  "Phillis beats me; she always does, every day of my
life.  I hate her!  If I die, Phillis ought to be hanged, for it was she that killed me."

"Hush! hush! no speaking," said Christian; and her soft compelling hand pressed the boy down
again.  She was now almost certain that the lung was injured, and her eyes were full of foreboding
compassion as they rested on the poor little fellow, so unused to suffering.

"Is this all true about Phillis?" whispered Dr. Grey.

"I fear it is; but we can not talk of that just now.  Ah! here is the doctor."

It was an inexpressible relief to Christian when, after his first glance at the patient, Dr.
Anstruther said, in his quick, firm, cheery way,

"Now, Dr. Grey, we'll soon put your little man right.  But we only want women here.  The best
thing you can do is to walk out of the room. This young lady?"

"Mrs. Grey--Dr. Anstruther."

"I see--I beg your pardon, madam;" and his keen eyes took in at a glance the graceful figure,
the brilliant evening dress.  "I was to have met you today at dinner at the vice chancellor's,
but this prevented you, I suppose?"

"Yes," said Christian; and then, in a few whispered words, told about the accident, and her
suspicions of what it was.  The freemasonry of trust which springs up instantaneously between
any honest doctor and sensible nurse made them friends in five minutes.

Mrs. Grey's fears had been only too true.  Many weeks of illness and of anxious nursing lay
before her and her poor boy.  After all had been done that could be done, Dr. Grey was recalled,
and the facts explained to him; though Dr. Anstruther, who seemed to understand him well, dwelt
as lightly upon them as possible, consistent with that strict truth which was always spoken
by the good doctor.  Still, it was enough.

When Dr. Anstruther was gone, Dr. Grey caine and stood by the sofa, in great distress.

"An illness of weeks--delicate for months--and perhaps weakly for life. Oh, my poor boy!"

"Hush!" said Christian; "the child might hear.  Go, and sit down for a minute, and I will come
to you."

She came, and, leaning over him, laid her hand tenderly on her husband's shoulder.  She could
do no more, even though he was her husband.  She felt helpless to comfort him, for the key
which unlocks all consolation was in her heart not yet found.  Only there came over her, with
a solemn presentiment which had its sweetness still, the conviction that whatever happiness
her lot might have missed, its duties were very plain, very sure.  All her life she would have,
more or less, to take care of, not only these her children, but their father.

She stood beside him, holding his shaking hands between her two firm ones, till she heard Arthur
call faintly.

"I must leave you now.  You will go to bed; and oh, do try to sleep. Poor papa!"

"And you?"

"I shall sit up, of course.  Never mind me; I have done it many a time."

"Will you have nobody with you?"

"No.  It would disturb Arthur, Hush! there is no time for speaking. This once you must let
me have my way.  Good-night, papa."

But for all that, in the dead of the night, she heard the study-door open, and saw Dr. Grey
come stealing in to where she sat watching--as she was to watch for many a weary day and night--beside
his boy's pillow. He saw her likewise--a figure, the like of which, husband and father as he
had been, he had never seen before.  No household experience of his had ever yet shown him
a woman in that light--the dearest light in which any man can behold her.

A figure, quite different from the stately lady in white splendors of six hours before, sitting,
dressed in a sober, soundless, dark-colored gown, motionless by the dim lamplight, but with
the soft eyes open and watchful, and the tender hands ever ready for those endless wants of
sickness at night, especially sickness that may be tending unto death, or unto the awful struggle
between life and death, which most women have at some time of their lives to keep ward over
till danger has gone by--just the sort of figure, in short, that every man is sure to need
beside him, once or more, in his journey between the cradle and the grave.  Happy he over whose
cradle it has bent, and who, nearing the grave, shalt have such a one upon whose bosom he may
close his weary eyes.

When Christian saw her husband, she stirred, and put up a linger far silence, Dr. Grey crossed
the room, trying hard to make his step light and noiseless, but piteously failing in the attempt.
Still Arthur was not disturbed.

"He sleeps sound, Christian.  Does he suffer very much, do you think?"

"Not now."

"Will he ever recover?"

"I hope so.  Oh, please God, I trust so!  Dr. Anstruther said there was no reason why he should
not."

"And you--you think so too?" with a touching appeal.

"Yes, I do think so"

Dr. Grey seemed relieved.  In a kind of helpless, childlike way, he stood behind her and watched
all she did for the child, who waked thirsty, and cried and moaned, but by-and--by was soothed
to sleep again.

His father shuddered as he gazed upon him.

"He looks as if he were dead--my poor boy!"

"You must not look at him, You must go to bed," said Christian, with a gentle authority.

"Presently.  And you--are you not afraid to sit up here alone?"

"Oh no."

"You never seem to be afraid of any thing."

"Not of much--I have gone through such a deal" said Christian, with a faint smile.  "But, papa,
indeed you must go to bed."

Nevertheless, they stood a little longer looking down upon Arthur, whose breathing grew softer
into natural sleep.  Then, with a mutual impulse given by the unity of a common grief the husband
and wife turned and kissed one another.

"God bless you, my darling, my poor children's mother, the first they ever--"

He stopped, and never finished the sentence.

Chapter 6

    "Love that asketh love again,
     Finds the barter naught but pain;
     Love that giveth in full store,
     Aye receives as much, and more.

    "Love, exacting nothing back,
     Never knoweth any lack;
     Love, compelling love to pay,
     Sees him bankrupt every day."

LIFE in the sick-room--most of us know what that is; how the whole world narrows itself within
four walls, and every fanciful grief and morbid imagining slips off, pressed down into nothingness
by the weight of daily, hourly cares, and commonplace, yet all-engrossing realities.

Christian was a born nurse--and nurses, like poets, are born, not made. You may recognize the
faculty in the little girl of ten years old, as she steals into your room to bring you your
breakfast, and takes the opportunity to arrange your pillow, and put your drawers in order,
and do any other little helpful office which you may need; and you miss it painfully in the
matron of sixty, who, with perhaps the kindest intentions, comes to nurse you, taking for granted
that she is the best person you could possibly have about you; and yet you would be thankful
to shut the door upon her, and struggle, suffer, die alone; as Arthur, child as he was, would
rather have died than suffer near his sick-bed either of his two aunts.

Phillis too--he screamed whenever he saw her, and with a jealousy not unnatural, and which
Mrs. Grey was rather sorry for than annoyed at, she came into the room continually.  At last
it became a question almost of life and death, for the fever ran high; and even Dr. Anstruther,
cheery man as he was, began to look exceedingly grave. The child must be kept quiet, and how
to do it?

For in this crisis Christian found out, what every woman has to find out soon or late, the
weak points in her husband.  She saw that, like many another good and brave man, he was in
this matter quite paralyzed; that she could rely only upon herself, and act for herself, or
else tell him what he was to do, and help him to do it, just like a child.  She did not care
for him the less for this--she sometimes felt she cared for him, more; but she opened her eyes
calmly to the facts of the case, and to her own heavy responsibility.

She consulted with Dr. Anstruther, and left him to explain things to whomsoever he would; then
locked the door, and for eight days and nights suffered no one to cross the threshold of Arthur's
room except the doctor.

It was a daring expedient, but the desperation of the time and Dr. Anstruther's consent and
co-operation, gave her courage; she was neither timid nor ignorant; she knew exactly what to
do, and she believed, if it were God's will to save Arthur's life, He would give her strength
to do it.

"My boy's life--only his life!" she prayed, more earnestly than she had ever prayed in her
life before, and then prepared for the long solitary vigil, of which it was impossible to foresee
the end.  In its terrible suspense she forgot every thing except the present; day by day and
hour by hour, as they slipped heavily along.  She ceased to think of herself at all, scarcely
even of her husband; her mind was wholly engrossed by her poor sick boy.

Hers, though hitherto she had never loved him; for he was not lovable at all, that rough, selfish,
headstrong Arthur, the plague of his aunts, and the terror of the nursery.  But now, when he
lay on his sick-bed, lingering on from day to day, in total dependence on her care, with a
heavy future before him, poor child!--for he seemed seriously injured-- there came into his
step-mother's weak, womanly heart a woman's passionate tenderness over all helpless things.
She did to him not only her duty, but something more.  She learned to love him.

Had any one told her a while ago that she should stand for hours watching every change in that
pale face, whose common, uncomely features grew spiritualized with sickness, till she often
trembled on their unearthly sweetness; that twenty times in the night she would start up from
her uncomfortable sofa-bed, listening for the slightest sound; that the sight of Arthur eating
his dinner (often prepared by her own hands, for the servants of the Lodge were strangely neglectful),
or of Arthur trying to play a game of draughts, and faintly smiling over it, should cause her
a perfect ecstasy of delight, Christian would have replied "Impossible!" But heaven sometimes
converts our impossibles and inevitables into the very best blessings we have--most right,
most natural, and most dear.

As to Christian herself, she was, even externally, greatly changed.  Pale as she looked, and
no wonder, there was a light in her eye and a firmness in her step very different from those
of the weary-looking woman who used to roam listlessly about the gloomy galleries or sit silently
working in the equally gloomy drawing-room with Miss Gascoigne and Miss Grey.

Poor Aunt Maria, in her regular daily visit--she dared venture no more--to the sick-room door,
would sometimes say hesitatingly, "My dear, how well you look still?  You are sure you are
not breaking down?" And Christian, grateful for the only kindly woman's face she ever saw near
her, would respond with a smile--sometimes with a kiss, which always alarmed Aunt Maria exceedingly.

As for Aunt Henrietta, she never came at all.  Since the evening when she had marched out of
the room in high dudgeon, she had taken not the smallest notice of the sick boy.  His life
or death was apparently of far less moment to her than her own offended dignity.  Had he been
left in her sole charge, she would doubtless have done her duty to him but to stand by and
see another doing it?  No! a thousand times no!  That part, insignificant in itself, and yet
often one of the very sweetest and most useful in life's harmonies, familiarly called "second
fiddle," was a part impossible to be played by Miss Gascoigne.

What she did or said--though probably the first was little and the other a great deal--was
happily unknown to Mrs. Grey.  Her one duty lay clear before her, to save her poor boy's life,
if any human means could do it.  And sometimes, when she saw the agony and anxiety in his father's
face, Christian felt a wild joy in spending herself and being spent, even to the last extremity,
if by such means she could repay to her most good and tender husband that never-counted, unaccountable
debt of love, which nothing ever does pay except return in kind.

Concerning Arthur himself, the matter was simple enough now.  All his fractiousness, restlessness,
and innumerable wants were easy to put up with; she loved the child.  And he, who (except from
his father) had never known any love before, took it with a wondering complacency, half funny,
half pathetic.  Sometimes he would say, looking at her wistfully, "Oh, it's so nice to be ill!"
And once, the first time she untied his right arm, and allowed it to move freely, he slipped
it around her neck, whispering, "You are very good to me, mother." Christian crept away.  She
dared not clasp him or cry over him, he was so weak still; but she stole aside into the oriel
window, her heart full almost to bursting.

After that he always called her "mother."

The other two children she scarcely ever saw.  The need for keeping Arthur quiet was so vital,
that of course they were not admitted to his room, and she herself rarely left it.  Dim and
far away seemed all the world, and especially her own poor life, whether happy or miserable,
compared with that frail existence, which hung almost upon a thread.

At last the medical opinion was given that little Arthur might, with great care and incessant
watching ("which it is plain he will have, Mrs. Grey," added the old doctor, bowing and smiling),
grow up to be a man yet.

When Dr. Anstruther said this, Christian felt as if the whole world had brightened.

She had no one to tell her joy to, for Dr. Grey was out, but she stood in her familiar retreat
at the window--oh, what that window could have revealed of the last few weeks!--and her tears,
long dried up, poured down like summer rain.

And then Dr. Grey came in, very much agitated; he had met the doctor in the street and been
told glad tidings.  She had to compel herself into sudden quietness, for her husband's sake,
which, indeed, was a lesson now daily being learned, and growing every day sweeter in the learning.

"Christian," he said, when they had talked it all over, and settled when and where Arthur was
first to go out of doors, with various other matter of fact things which she thought would
soonest calm the father's emotion--"Christian, Dr. Anstruther tells me my boy could not have
lived but for you and your care.  I shall ever remember this--ever feel grateful."

A pang, the full meaning of which she then did not in the least understand, shot through Christian's
heart.  "You should not feel grateful to his mother."

"Do you mean, really, that you love him like--like a mother?"

"Of course I do."

Dr. Grey said nothing more, but his wife felt him put his arm round her. She leaned her head
against him and, though she still wept--for the tears, once unsealed, seemed painfully quick
to rise--still she was contented and at rest.  Worn and weary a little, now the suspense was
over the reaction came, but very peaceful.  Unconsciously there ran through her mind one of
the foolish bits of poetry she had been fond of when a girl:

    "In the unruffled shelter of thy love,
     My bark leaped homeward from a stormy sea,
     And furled its sails, and, like a nested dove--"

"Mother!" called out Arthur's feeble, fretful voice, and in a minute the poetry had all gone
out of her head, and she was by her boy's side, feeding him, jesting with him, and planning
how the first day of his convalescence should be celebrated by a grand festival, inviting the
two others to tea in his room.  It was her own room, from which he had never been moved since
the first night.  How familiar had grown the crimson sofa, the tall mirror, the carved oaken
wardrobe!  The bride had regarded these splendors with a wondering half-uneasy gratitude; but
now, to Arthur's nurse and "mother," they looked pleasant, home- like, and dear.

"We will pull the sofa to the fire.  Help, papa, please, and place the little table before
it.  And we will send written invitations which papa shall deliver, with a postman's knock,
at the nursery door.  We won't send him one, I think?"

"Very well," said Dr. Grey, with a great pretense of wrath; "then papa will have to invite
himself, like the wicked old fairy at the christening of--Who was it, Arthur?"

Arthur clapped his hands, which proceeding was instantly stopped by Christian.  "It was the
Sleeping Beauty, which you don't know one bit about, and I do, and ever so many more tales.
She used to tell me them in the middle of the night, when I couldn't sleep, and they were so
nice and so funny!  She shall tell you some after tea.  And we'll make her sing too.  Papa,
did you ever hear her sing?"

"No," said Dr. Grey.

"Oh, but I have.  She'll sing for me," returned Arthur, proudly.  "She said she would, though
she had meant never to sing again."

Christian blushed violently, for the boy, in his unconscious way, had referred to a little
episode of his illness, when, having exhausted all efforts to soothe him into drowsiness, she
had tried her voice, silent for many months--silent since before she had known Dr. Grey.  She
had wished it so--wished to bury all relics of that time of her youth deep down, so that no
chance hand could ever dig them up again.

"Do you really sing?" asked Dr. Grey, a little surprised, and turning full upon her those grave,
gentle, tender eyes.

She blushed more painfully than ever, but she answered steadily, "Yes, I was supposed to have
a very fine voice.  My father wished it cultivated for the stage.  It might have been so if
things had been different."

"Would you have liked it?--the stage, I mean."

"Oh no, no!" with a visible, unmistakable shudder.  "I would have resisted to the last.  I
hated it."

"Was that why you left off singing?"

It would have been so easy to tell a lie--a little harmless white lie but Christian could not
do it.  She could keep silence to any extent, but falsehood was impossible to her.  She dropped
her eyes; but the color once more overspread her whole face as she answered, distinctly and
decisively, "No."

It surprised her somewhat afterward, not then--her heart was beating too violently for her
to notice any thing much--that her husband asked her no farther question, but immediately turned
the conversation to Arthur's tea-party, in the discussion of which both were so eager to amuse
the invalid that the other subject dropped--naturally, it appeared; anyhow, effectually.

But when the two other children came in to see Arthur, he again recurred to her singing, which
had evidently taken a strong hold upon his imagination.

"Papa, you must hear her. Mother, sing the song with pretty little twiddle-twiddles in it--far
prettier than Aunt Henrietta's things-- something about warbling in her breath."

"Oh no, not that," said Christian, shrinking involuntarily.  What from? Was it from a ghostly
vision of the last time she had sung it--that is properly, to a piano-forte accompaniment,
played by fingers that had afterward caught hold of her trembling fingers, and been a living
comment on the song?  It was that exquisite one from Handel's  "Acis and Galatea:"

    "Love in her eyes sits playing,
     And sheds delicious death;
     Love on her lips is straying,
     And warbling in her breath."

Probably never was there a melody which more perfectly illustrated that sort of love, the idealization
of fancy and feeling, with just a glimmer of real passion quivering through it--the light cast
in advance by the yet unrisen day.

"Not that song, Arthur.  It is rather difficult besides, Papa might not care to hear it."

"Papa might if he were tried," said Dr. Grey, smiling, "Why not do to please me what you do
to please the children?"

So Christian sang at once--ay, and that very song.   She faced it.  She determined she would,
with all the ghosts of the past that hovered round it.

Her ghosts slipped one by one into the grave of the past.  She had begun her song feebly and
uncertainly; but when she really heard the sound of her own voice echoing through the lofty
room, with a gush of melody that the old walls had not known for centuries, there came upon
her an intoxication of enjoyment.  It was that pure enjoyment which all true artists--be they
singers, painters, poets--understand, and they only-- the delight in mere creation, quite distinct
from any sympathy or admiration of others; and oh how far removed from any mean vanity or love
of praise.

Christian was happy--happy as a lark in the air, just to hear--and make-- the sound of her
own singing.  Her face brightened; her figure, as she stood leaning against the mantel-piece
assumed a new grace and dignity.  She was beautiful--absolutely beautiful and her husband saw it.

Was it fancy if, glancing at her, Dr. Grey half sighed?  Only for a moment; then he said cheerily:

"Arthur was right.  Children, tell your mother that she is the best singer we ever heard in
all our lives."

"That she is.  She sings just like a bird in a tree.  And, then, you see, papa, she is our
own bird."

Christian came down from the clouds at once, and laughed heartily at the idea of being Arthur's
own bird.

"Titia," said Dr. Grey, with sudden energy, as if the thought had been brewing in his mind
for many minutes, "is there not a piano in the drawing-room?  There used to be."

"Yes, and I practice upon it two hours every day," answered Letitia, with dignity.  "But afterward
Aunt Henrietta locks it up and takes the key.  She says it is poor mamma's piano, and nobody
is to play upon it but me."

As the child said this in a tone so like Aunt Henrietta's, her father looked--as Christian
had only seen him look once or twice before, and thought that there might be circumstances
under which any body displeasing him would be considerably afraid of Dr. Arnold Grey.

"Did you know of this, Christian?" The same obstinate silence by Fernanda. The Garnet did not care tear or a smile or a
word of thanks, his grotesque gestures and blunders that occasionally lets out do not arise in
the marble face of a young gesture of fatigue and disgust. At times he sleeps, sometimes viewed
with astonished eyes the landscape. When they reached the outskirts of León was night.

But what about Leon? When you reach the square where the shot change diligence discover large crowd
of people, hearing voices outrageous, discordant noise of musical instruments tolling of bells.
And come to rise above the crowd some painted transparent.

Paco Gomez, trace fruitful than Ulysses, had written to some friends of Leon time back inviting
them to have a charivari for when pasasen Garnet and his wife there. Lancia colony, which is large
in Leon, admirably seconded plans his countryman. All I had prepared. However, these preparations
have been useless without the betrayal of Manuel Antonio, who reaches Paco Lancia secret news
what happened. He used the telegraph, newly installed, and began
communicating with his followers.

Fernanda soon realized that this uproar was against it. When, for some screams reached his ears, came
to the attention of it, turned pale, his eyes widened and with a cry, rushed to the window
to throw out. Garnet stopped holding the waist. The girl fought furiously at times, but can not
discard those short arms and brawny bear, he fell at last into the
seat, hands She took in the face and began to sob.

- God, sin has
been great, but what a terrible punishment!

X

Five years later.

Five years elapsed. The noble city of Lancia has changed little on the outside and less still
in its customs. A few houses adorned with marzipan grilleras raised by gold Indian park near San
Francisco, several pieces of pavement on streets that he never possessed, three more lanterns
in Constitution Square, a policeman cool, which owes its existence not so much as service needs
to passions the mayor, a man of lofty thoughts, devoted almost entirely to Venus, which rewards
the condescension of Vulcan with the municipal budget in some Bombé ride bronze statues of
the fallen robes, which were serious scandal to his erection, making Judge Saleta proclaimed
in the gathering of Grandee that "the average was one hundred nudity most exciting times to complete,
"in the heads of our mature known some silver threads, and in the face radiant as the rainbow
of Manuel Antonio, the most seductive of the sons of the illustrious city, and obvious signs that
her beauty will soon fade like a happy dream glacial breath in the
morning, as the snowflakes gently falling in the dead of winter a
sad day.

Vegetative life itself, misty, sleepy, the same conversation at the backrooms sucking with honey
delight of gossip. Weighing vulgar nicknames always lead slab on the happiness of some respectable
families. At the pump, sunny afternoons, the same clerics and military groups deployed in wing
walking. The huge bells of the basilica invariably ringing at set times. The devout old walking
with hurried to plant rosario or ninth. The monotonous chanting of the canons resonate deeply
in solitude of the high vaults. In Altavilla, at dusk, the eternal youth dances happy, laughing
a lot, talking loudly and opening We often to make way for a seamstress spiritual or affluent
meat maid who pay homage to the eyes, with the word and often with your hands. And there,
high in the sky, the same rings of clouds sad brown and quietly piling up on the ancient cathedral
to listen in melancholy of autumn night wind moans across the high drag of the tower shaft.

We are in November. The Count de Onís used to ride a horse the same on clear days in the dark. Fewer
and fewer will place the company of men. His character has been more suspicious and melancholy.
Sin annihilated the weak germs of joy that nature had placed in his heart. The gloomy temperament,
extravagant, fanatic Gayoso has been extolling it little by little with the incessant gnawing
of remorse, has upset his imagination, has enervated their low activity
and blackened its existence.

Bothered by men. In all eyes plan to watch hostility in the most innocent phrases, any malicious
intent that makes your blood boil with rage. Dare not enter the temples, even dropped to his
knees, as before, against the fourth bloody crucifix of his mother. If you hear talk of hell trembles
and flees. Send large alms to the churches charge masses who can not hear, put candles on
the images, and secrecy of his room is entertaining at times childishly to ask fate, throwing
a coin if will be condemned forever or just purgatory. When it comes to their ears singing
the priests who accompany a funeral, pale, trembling and covered their ears. By We often wake
up startled night with a cold sweat, screaming miserably "There die!

Must die! "

For a long time he lived almost completely removed, without leaving more than when it ordered
that will that had been his dominion. Then, as suffer too much, fearing that ended his dark thoughts
his reason, gave the outline to go by foot or horse, until fatigue.

The physical fatigue paid break his spirit, the show Nature calmed his troubled imagination.

It was a cold, dark afternoon. The clouds piled up over the hills weigh closing the horizon the
North, and hide the high mountains of Lorrin that stretch like a distant curtain by the West.
Heavy showers that have fallen became lower lake city and mud roads depart from it. Despite
this, the Count sent her saddle horse Lancia leaves the road to Castilla, and gallops among the
clouds of mud across the prairies and forests of chestnut trees. The yellow leaves of the
trees, washed rain, shine like gold, a thousand rivulets down the side hesitant creepeth of the
hill and go to deposit their water in the plain, which expands with soft green and wet undulations.
A darker band indicates the channel of Lora, which is hidden under
mysterious its rows of willow and thick alders.

The count, with his head thrown back, eyes half closed, breathed with delight the cool damp
of the afternoon. The road flanked the gently sloping hill. Before transpose and lose sight of the
city, stopped his horse and looked back. Lancia was a lot, not great, red roof, on the dark arrow
protruding from the cathedral.

Received a yellow spot under the oak forest of the Farm. Further down the towers orange of his
ancestral home.

The rain has stopped. A cold wind swept clouds and precipitates behind
the mountains.

The sky unfolds seamlessly with the pale blue of the autumn days. Some stars already point on
the horizon like diamonds. The trees, mountains, streams, valley green carpet covered the undecided
in the dim glow of the sunset light.

The count put back his horse and galloped swiftly down the hillside Lancia hiding. The wind
pressed his temples, ringing in their ears, causing a fresh drunkenness dispelling the dark clouds
of his imagination. On the muddy road is not but a herd of cattle, some trajinante with his team,
or slowly by oxen-drawn cart, in the bottom of which sleeps the road carelessly. But before transposing
a bend, thinks he hears distant sound of wheels and bells. It is the seat post that comes at dusk
Lancia. Crossing his side runs a distracted look in the background,
and collide with other eyes large and shining.

Feel an electric thrill, head back quickly, but and sees only the back of the chair away. Pull
the reins to the horse and follows: a few moments embarrassed stops and continues its march.

Would
Fernanda? A fleeting sensation, but very clear, it said. However, it could have wrong. Had no
news of their arrival. I knew who became a widow a few months. Garnet had rolled at the end like
an ox under the stroke of apoplexy. But at the same time was valid word that hated Indian widow's
death from the humiliating Lancia farce that their countrymen had
been given in marriage.

The failure to come when the death of his father, which occurred last year, left him well tested.

Count
on this thought a few moments, after he faded from the mind distracted him a cloud thick raped
and moved toward the zenith again presaging rain. But in the background his spirit was somewhat
vague and sweet put in a good mood. The horse stirred and came to Lancia and good night, dripping
and covered in mud, but a light heart and gay without knowing why.

Fernanda did not hesitate an instant. He saw and knew as clearly as he could to warn signals
that the time and care had printed on his face. He seemed older; thought he saw in his long silver
beard wisps. At the same time in his eyes, perched a moment on it, guessed the suffering,
boredom, something sad, he was impressed happily. The memory of her former boyfriend had always
lived in the bottom of his chest. Or treason, or contempt, or the thousand distractions which
flew into the frivolous life bustling Paris, had managed to tear it from there. If I had found satisfaction
in the fullness of his strength and health, would not have felt that sweet breath caressed her
instantly. In such a malignant joy was unquenchable resentment of the woman scorned, but also
something winged, sound, vaporous, like hope, who sang and laughed
in his soul and blacks dissipated thoughts that accumulated on his
forehead.

The need, not their will, forced her to return to Lancia, which had vowed not to put feet anymore.
Her husband had made a will in his favor. The brothers of one challenged him. He had filed a
lawsuit, who won in the first instance. Attached was a former servant of his father, transformed
into a lady in waiting, and a butler. From Madrid had telegraphed a premium, and this, together
with Manuel Antonio, two girls of Matthew and some friends over, waited in the badly paved
square of the Post, which stopped the diligence. And come hugs and hugs and kisses, and go to questions
and exclamations and tears.

The victim heir-Rosa Estrada had not expected to feel such joy the plant in his hometown.

Her friends took her embraced, almost in a twinkling, all the way home. There were dismissed
all but Emilita Mateo, who Fernanda beckoned her to stay. The two friends reached slowly,
holding her waist, the staircase, broad, polished, so often their Girl tiny feet had trod. They
soon shut in the old cabinet daughter Rosa Estrada-time to savor the sweet secrets. Kisses and
smiles and protests of faithful friendship is told his life during those five years. Fernanda spoke
her late husband with a compassion that would be sad and it was very derogatory. Lived with him in a sort
of antagonism of ideas, tastes and desires, which constantly kept away. Neither was happy
or unhappy. Five years were paraded stunner before him busy streets, glittering theaters, grand
hotels, dance halls, dazzling costumes, many acquaintances and no friends. Her husband kowtow
to their whims force, like a bear growling indomitable he obeyed the bottom of the tamer. Had
a daughter, who died at four months.

The playful Emilia was very unhappy in her marriage. Nunez had gone a Perdis. And Fernanda knew
but vaguely. In letters is not easy to descend into some significant details. At first very
well, but then bad company had spoiled. He gave the game first, then the drink lately by women.
The latter was what was Emilia. Everything is forgiven by Choice: to come drunk at late at night,
he pawned the earrings, covered, until the cap shelter, what could not bear was that he saw
enter the house of a loss that lived Locksmith in the street. In saying that the daughter
of Retired let out a torrent of tears. Saw her pained mourn, for the joy that was always rebellious
distinctive character. Fernanda tenderly caressed her and shared her tears. After a moment of silence
asked

- But do you still love him?

- Yes, my dear, yes! - Angrily exclaimed .-- I can not help.

I am increasingly blinded by it.

- Oh dear! Your poor father will also disgustadísimo.

- Imagine! ... And worse - he said, crying bitterly - now returned to his old hobby against the military
... He says horrible things about the military ... Yes, yes, horrible!

... As I go for house starts to nonsense, nothing more than to mortify
... My sisters support him ... They call us lazy and say ... say the
quota should be reduced ...

At this point, the sobs broke the tender
breast Nunez's wife.

Fernanda, who also cried seeing her so distraught, could not help
smiling.

- Your sister too!

- You bet!

... Everybody, everybody wants to be reduced! ...

When the daughter of Rosa Estrada, had demonstrated that it was not as easy as it seemed to reduce
of ground forces, his spirit finally calmed down gradually. Then entered into both to surprise
laciense society. Fernanda be presented that night without prior
notice Quinones in the talk show.

A childlike joy seized both with this project. So that shaped it, Emilita bye, promising to
return soon to find his friend.

It was ten o'clock at night when both went up the stone steps, always
oozing by moisture, the vast stately steps of Quiñones.

At the top Emilita that forbade the servant announced. She opened the door Fernanda room and pushed
inward.

It was an appearance that left ecstatic for a moment at the circles. Estrada's daughter, Rosa, wore
an elegant dress shop just out of one of the most famous dressmakers Paris. Her beauty, which
his countrymen knew no more than the delicate button was become marvelous rose in the five
years of refined and elegant.

Wonderful for the arrogance of her body for the brightness of its large African eyes, by the delicacy
of her complexion, the beauty of Paris Fernanda had acquired its
necessary, grace, the noble and simple gesture, the taste in clothes,
the highest distinction in Lancia had ever achieved.

Her black silk dress left bare chest and back.

Some Pearl runs woven in the hair made up all the trappings of his head.

Amalia was the first he saw her, and suddenly blood flowed from the heart. Answer immediately
ran to greet her.

- Oh! I knew you'd come, but figured it would be so kind ...

Both looked into his eyes and declared, with a glint, hatred burning in the background of their
souls. But circumstances had changed. Amalia was five years ago, the lady most elegant and
distinguished of the population, the only one whose poise and refinement of manners transcended to
another level more cultured and spiritual. Fernanda infinitely surpassed
by now. It had aged so obvious.

Among his hair strands were already enough silvery complexion, always pale, had lost its freshness,
and he had lost desire and taste in clothes, had been gradually folding under the pressure of
society ordinary and corny that surrounds it, adapting to it and neglecting more and more of him. The contrast
was, therefore, more alive. Well I noticed the noble wife and Grandee felt humiliated to the core of your
being. A smile from her lips as contracted despite Fernanda changed with the obligatory greetings.
It was enjoying his triumph with deep and serene joy.

The ladies rodeáronla immediately.

It was a deluge of kisses and hugs accompanied by live exclamations
of joy.

The men, who formed a circle behind her hands also advanced and warmly shook the traveler's beautiful.
And while much congratulations and congratulatory words, or out of forgetfulness or embarrassment,
no one dared to hint at the misfortune that she had experienced A
few months ago, even the slightest memory for red bear sleeping their
eternal sleep in a cemetery in Paris.

Only when the excitement had calmed Greetings, Amalia took her hand and said smiling at her from
top to bottom:

- Do you know that are very elegant suits duel in Paris!

Fernanda was a sneer.

- Never mind the dress if it is the duel in the heart - Maria Josefa
said that in the five years that have passed prodigiously had sharpened
the blade, the tip Tailstocks and their language.

Fernanda's cheeks were stained with carmine. Ashamed as if it were a crime not to feel Garnet
loss. Then, irritated by this hostility, almost violent show anger. He turned his back and
began to talk to other ladies.

At that time the Count de Onís left the cabinet and came to greet her. He held out his hand with
a warm smile. She handed hers in a glacial, spreading rapidly look. However, he warned about
his eyes a pale circle denouncing emotion. To conceal walked to the cabinet, said with affected
lightness that get free, that he had more desire to see was a D. Pedro.

The Grandee noble lay on his couch with the cards in his hand. His hair and beard were whiter,
but so bristling and wild. His strong features seemed more pronounced; sunken eyes shone more
brightly delusional. Moving to work that great torso Athletic empty of the features of his
face contracted with a look of fierce sadness and helplessness that inspired fear. But if your
body is visibly cast down, stood his pride more and more verve. Every day grew a little respect
that embodied called himself by Quiñones de León and contempt for others by being born under
the stigma of any other name.

Deeply appreciative of the sky that had such we want to develop,
would have to sin to complain about their fate and the other men envy
the ability to use their legs.

Who cares if Juan Fernandez can walk, run and jump, if at the end
of the day is called Juan Fernandez?

What he cared about was if sometimes appropriate to the dignity of having a limb Quiñones entirely
inert, and if it would be preferable that they lived to share in the glory of the organism. Soon
discarded, however, such concerns just thinking about those who live or dead Tips occupied a higher
rank in society. When Fernando came into the cabinet looked up and stared at her a sharp look
that embraced her from head to toe. Neither beauty nor the size, uniquely stylish, the girl had
to leave satisfied, immediately because he made the cards and exclaimed with insolent protection:

-
Hi, baby! Is that you? When did you get?

In spite of being mortified by that tone, Fernanda greeted him warmly.

- Good to see you so good, my dear, and take this opportunity to give their condolences. You know
I do not write letters for years.

I felt a lot Santos ... Listen, Moro: proposed you do in your life give me a decent card?
... It was a good fellow, a good neighbor, unable to hurt anyone. You will not find another man
like him. Had a quality that is very hard: modesty. Despite the money he had managed to put
together, did not seek out of its sphere; always respectful to superiors said. Right, Saleta,
which was not as these lice raised, so they sound a few coins in his pocket forget beans and
rye, as if his life had tried? ... Valero, seated, and say it back soon if you have ... Are
you coming to settle here, little girl, or you become to see the
Frogs?

Fernanda, who felt perfectly all the gall of that speech, he answered
coolly, and then of few words went to the salon.

A D. Pedro had bothered
him the whiff of elegance and distinction bouncing daughter Estrada,
Rosa. He was irritated that someone were to rise up around him, even
it were only a few inches. Loathed everything foreign, and particularly
that Paris, where he envisioned Quiñones de León that were not very
decisive influence. So vaguely suspected, with horror, which were
unknown. Of course I tried to separate mind from such disparate idea.
If you were to enter fully into the spirit, what remained the noble
knight? Die, and nothing else.

Triplet making the game are the same
characters we already know. Saleta, the great Saleta, whose lies are
streaming from his mouth soft and syrupy, which forced him to smacking
often.

So she put on shawl and bonnet, and was just slipping out at the hall door, rather thankful
that Barker was absent from his post, when she met Titia creeping stealthily in, not at the
front door, but at the glass door, which led to the garden behind; to which garden there was
only one other entrance, a little door leading into Walnut-tree Court, and of this door Barker
usually kept the key.  Now, however, it hung from the little girl's hand, the poor frightened
creature, who, the minute she saw her step-mother, tried to run away up stairs.

"Titia, come back!  Tell me where you have been, without Phillis or any body, and when I desired
you not to go out again."

"It was only to--to fetch a crocus for Atty."

"Where is the crocus?"

"I--dropped it."

"And this key.  What did you want with the key?"

"I--I don't know."

The lie failed, if they were lies; but perhaps they might have been partly true; the child
hung her head and began to whimper.  She was not quite hardened, then.

"Come here to me," said Christian, sadly and gravely, leading her to the glass door, so that
what light there was could shine upon her face; "let me look if you have been telling me the
truth.  Don't be afraid; if you have I will not punish you.  I will not be hard upon you in
any case, if you will only speak the truth.  Titia, a little girl like you has no business
to be creeping in and out of her papa's house like a thief.  Tell at once where have you been,
and who was with you?"

The child burst out crying.  "I daren't tell, or Phillis will beat me.  She said she would
if I stirred an inch from the nursery, while she went down to have tea with cook and Barker.
And I thought I might just run for ten minutes to see Miss Bennett, who wanted me so."

"You were with Miss Bennett, then?  Any body else?"

 "Only a gentleman," said Letitia, hanging her head and blushing with
that painful precocity of consciousness so sad to see in a little girl.

"What was his name?"

"I don't know.  Miss Bennett didn't tell me.  She only said he was a friend of hers, who liked
little girls, and that if I could come and have a walk with them, without telling Phillis or
any body, she would let me off all the hardest of my French lessons.  And so--and so--Oh, hide
me, there's papa at the hall door, and Aunt Henrietta coming out of the dining- room.  And
Aunt Henrietta never believes what I say, even if I tell her the truth.  Oh, let me run--let
me run."

The child's terror was so uncontrollable that there was nothing for it but to yield; and she fled.

"Titia!  Titia!" called out her father.  "Christian, what is the matter? What was my little
girl crying for?"

There was no avoiding the domestic catastrophe, even had Christian wished to avoid it, which
she did not.  She felt it was a case in which concealment was impossible--wrong.  Dr. Grey
ought to be told, and Miss Gascoigne likewise.

"Your little girl has been very naughty, papa; but others have been more to blame than she.
Come with me--will you come too, Aunt Henrietta?--and I will tell you all about it."

She did so, as briefly as she could, and in telling it she discovered one fact--which she passed
over, and yet it made her glad--that Dr. Grey, like herself, had been kept wholly in the dark
about the engagement of Miss Bennett as governess.

"I meant to have told you today, though, after I had given her sufficient trial," said Miss
Gascoigne, sullenly; "I had with her the best of recommendations, and I do not believe one
word of all this story--that is," waking up to the full meaning of what she was saying, "not
without the most conclusive evidence."

"Evidence," repeated Dr. Grey.  "You have my wife's word, and my daughter's."

"Your daughter is the most arrant little liar I ever knew!"

The poor father shrank back.  Perhaps he knew, by sad experience, that Aunt Henrietta's condemnation
was not altogether without foundation. His look expressed such unutterable pain that Christian
came forward and spoke out strongly, almost angrily.

"It is fear that makes a liar, even as harshness and injustice create deceit and underhandedness.
Love a child and trust it, and if it does wrong, punish it neither cruelly nor unfairly, and
it will never tell falsehoods. Titia will not--she shall not, as long as I am alive to keep
her to the truth."

Dr. Grey looked fondly at his wile's young, glowing face and even Miss Gascoigne, the hard,
worldly woman, viewing all things in her narrow, worldly way, was silenced for the time.  Then
she began again, pouring out a torrent of explanations and self-exculpations, which soon resolved
themselves into the simple question, What was to be done?  There--she ended.

"Don't ask me to do any thing.  I will not.  I wash my hands of the whole matter. If the story
be true, and Miss Bennett can be guilty of conduct so indecorous, it would never do for me
to be mixed up in such an improper proceeding and if untrue, and I accused her of it, I should
find myself in a very unpleasant position.  So, Mrs. Grey, since you have interfered in this
matter, you must carry it out on your own responsibility.  If you have taken a grudge against
Miss Bennett--which I did not expect, considering your own antecedents--you must just do as
you like concerning her.  But, bless me! how the evening is slipping by. Come, Maria, I shall
hardly have time to dress for the vice chancellor's."

So saying, Miss Gascoigne swept away, her silk skirts flowing behind her.  Aunt Maria followed
with one pathetic glance at "dear Arnold;" and the husband and wife were left alone.

Dr. Grey threw himself into his arm-chair, and there came across his face the weary look, which
Christian had of late learned to notice, indicating that he was no more a young man, and that
his life had been longer in trials than even in years.

"My dear, I wish you women-kind could settle these domestic troubles among yourselves.  We
men have so many outside worries to contend with.  It is rather hard."

It was hard.  Christian reproached herself almost as if she had been the primary cause of this,
the first complaint she had ever heard him make, and which he seemed immediately to regret
having allowed to escape him.

"I don't mean, my dear wife, that you should not have told me this; indeed, it was impossible
to keep it from me.  It all springs from Aunt Henrietta.  I wish she--But she is Aunt Henrietta,
and we must just make the best of her, as I have done for nearly twenty years."

"And why did you?" rose irrepressibly to Christian's lips.  The sense of wild resistance to
injustice and wrong, so strong in youth, was still not beaten down.  It roused in her something
very like fierceness--these gentle creatures can be fierce sometimes--to see a good man like
Dr. Grey trodden down and domineered over by this narrow-minded, bad- tempered woman.  "I often
wonder at your patience, and at all you forgive."

"Seventy times seven," was the quick answer. And Christian became silenced and grave.  "Still,"
he added, smiling, "a sin against one's self does not include a sin against another. The next
time Henrietta speaks as she spoke to you just now, she and I will have a very serious quarrel."

"Oh no, no!  Not for my sake.  I had rather die than bring dissension into this house."

"My poor child, people can not die so easily.  They have to live on and endure.  But what were
we talking about; for I forget: I believe I do forget things sometimes;" and he passed his
hand over his forehead.  "I am not so young as you, my dear; and, though my life has looked
smooth enough outside; there has been a good deal of trouble in it.  In truth,"--he added,
"I have had some vexatious things perplexing me today, which must excuse my being so dull and
disagreeable."

"Disagreeable!" echoed Christian, with a little forced sort of laugh, adding, in a strange,
soft shyness, "I wish you would tell me what those vexatious things were.  I know I am young,
and foolish enough too; still, if I could help you--"

"Help me!"  He looked at her eagerly, then shook his head and sighed. "No, my child, you can
not help me.  It is other people's business, which I am afraid I have no right to tell even
to you.  It is only that a person has come back to Avonsbridge, who, if I could suppose I had
an enemy in the world--But here I am telling you."

"Never mind, you shall tell me no more," said Christian, cheerily, "especially as I do not
believe that in the wide world you could have an enemy.  And now give me your opinion as to
this matter of Miss Bennett?"

"First, what is yours?"

Christian pondered a little.  "It seems to me that the only thing is for me to speak to her
myself, quite openly and plainly, when she comes tomorrow."

"And then dismiss her?"

"I fear so."

"For having a lover?" said Dr. Grey, with an amused twinkle in his eye.

"Not exactly, but for telling Titia about it, and making use of the child for her own selfish
needs.  Do you consider me hard?  Well, it is because I know what this ends in.  Miss Gascoigne
does not see it, but I do.  She only thinks of 'propriety.'  I think of something far deeper--a
girl's first notions about those sort of things.  It is cruel to meddle with them before their
time--to take the bloom off the peach and the scent off the rose; to put worldliness instead
of innocence, and conceited folly instead of simple, solemn, awful love.  I would rather die,
even now--you will think I am always ready for dying--but I would rather die than live to think
and feel about love like some women--ay, and not bad women either, whom I have known."

Mrs. Grey had gone on, hardly considering what she was saying or to what it referred, till
she was startled to feel fixed upon her her husband's earnest eyes.

"You need not be afraid," said he smiling. Concha was annoyed:

- Do you cry for the little hair? .. Too bad whipping! ... Not your fault, but that you being
raised as a princess as much as us ... I say, unless we - added by
low, - at last we have parents.

- Come on, Concha, leave!

... Never mind, Monin, soon will have hair again - said Mary with maternal stress.

The girl, shocked by the applause, began to sob and left the room.

When evening came in the room, that way, the count could not repress a gesture of anger and
nailed a questioning look on Amalia. It said that gesture and that look with a provocative smile.
And he said aloud as she was told to cut hair because he had noticed
that the girl began to boast.

- Sure!

Both the flatter you that it has been unbearable!

The count, irritated, immediately tried once to approach the conversation Fernanda and knotted
the previous night. They were talkative, affectionate. Fernanda had his life details Paris. Luis
was singularly expansive, not hiding the joy of his heart, speaking emotionally from the angry
eyes of Amalia perched on him.

In a break Fernanda raised smiling eyes towards his ex-boyfriend
and asked, not without blushing a little:

- Do not know why they've
cut the girl's hair?

The count looked blank.

- Yesterday I praised him a lot and let me kiss him.

It was the first time that Fernanda was given cognizance of his secret. Experienced strong shock.
Her cheeks reddened. Those of her too. In long time no words found to say.

In the following days, the count began to walk down the street repeated Altavilla and to spend
long periods in the cafe of Maranhao. The company was moved to laciense ground up to size
event. Since then more than three hundred pairs of eyes will spied on and on. He stopped going
every day at home and attended Quiñones once in a while the meager gathering of the de Mere,
as Lancia was saying, but actually no longer in the world had more than one. Carmelita had died
at least three years. No Nuncia remained but the youngest, and that almost completely paralyzed.
Chair to bed from bed to chair, was all that was with work. Private was also morally of movement,
lack of protective impulse that he lent her his sister. Since it lowered the tomb, and who had no
subject. This, far from cheerful, plunged in a melancholy deep. As he passed suddenly to the category
of person sui juris, the poor girl had distress experienced incredible:
all you scared, it was all conflicts which seemed impossible to leave,
threw least those harsh rebukes that if the shed were abundant tears,
had suppressed his youthful healthy starts and cut the dire results
that could lead to their inexperience.

They were his regular chats Pollastre some new, some roosters known and quite a number more beautiful
and ugly ladies who came to the house-hungry husband. Because the Niña, in this as in all
religiously kept the traditions inherited from her sister. Was resolute protector of all engagements
that were initiated in Lancia, by blundering that were.

The small house on Calle del Carpio was still forging the forge where marital happiness of the
righteous neighbors Lancia.

The record that came over was Paco Gomez. The reason, he had been thrown from house Quiñones
as a result of a phrase of his. Asked a stranger in a circle Altavilla how the Grandee became paralyzed.
"In reality it is not paralyzed - said Paco, - because he has no
injuries whatsoever, except that the legs can not be with heraldry
has gone to his head, and bend it as a step.

" Quinones knew a traitor and ordered not to receive him.

He was the soul and joy of the party of the girl. The incessant go with that mortified the latter had
everyone constantly spasm of laughter.

- Come on, Nuncia, very careful!

Do not talk too much, because you know you've seen the calves y. .. y. .. y. ..

The poor octogenarian blushed like a girl of fifteen. Nothing much as this suffocating unwelcome reminder
of the evening of swing.

Luis and Fernanda started to be here once or twice a week. Far from the gleaming eyes Amalia, it was
comfortable, regained her composure. They talked very long times quietly, without anyone bothering
them, on the contrary, the girl was careful to provide sufficient time and space. Attended,
however, home of Quiñones, saw secret Amalia when it is required,
but would appear colder, more elusive.

She, warning him perfectly did not budge, no one spoke of his ex-girlfriend.

However, one day he could not contained:

- I know you entertain at
home long hours of talking with Fernanda de Mere.

Cowardly denied.

- Be careful what you do - he continued, fixing his eyes he claims - because a treason could
get out side.

He was so accustomed to the domain of that awful woman, she felt a shudder cold, as if something
ominous and hovered overhead. But when he went out into the street, outside the magnetic influence
of those eyes that troubled him, he felt invaded by a deaf irritation: "After all, why threaten
me? Is it my wife? What rights does about me? What we are doing is a grave sin, a crime. Who can
deprive the repentance, reconciled with God and be good?

"Repentance was the Recently a vague wish, thanks to the fatigue of his love and fear further
divestment inspired him to hell. Now it became true longing. Truth that offered greater attractive.
Courageously reject sin, purified, free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had
long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that
same girl was new and cruel torments. Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide
their feelings, coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her daughter's heart,
do not feel warbling the tender name of father, he was sad and at times he despaired. Desquitábase
when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take her to the
farm.

They spent hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend.

Raised his eyes in surprise but seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to kiss.

-
Why are you crying, Luis? Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to mourn. Luis loved tenderly,
and that shocked and saddened that the coldness that she usually wore. Slowly had been guessing,
with precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others
and to conceal.

She also adopted, following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in public.
But when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without
knowing why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that there was Josefina disgraced.
I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no longer
the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent tone,
and the maids followed the example of his wife.

The poor girl without understanding what that change meant, he felt his little heart tightened;
explored with its beautiful deep eyes the faces and tried to decipher the enigma that kept. It
became more serious, more suspicious, more timid. And he refused to see that toys or goodies
before lent her hands full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways,
passed by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you could not the catechism. You'll
make very lazy. Beware that you are good, because otherwise I locked in the cave of the mice.
"

Before her was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide their tiny fingers.
Now this task usually left to the maids. He lived in a state grim concern that did not happen
desadvertida the servants. Josephine also guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not
only with respect to it, but his whole way of being. And there, vaguely in the dark limbo of
his thinking that spawned the idea was sad, suffering and that this was the cause of your bad
mood.

One day the lady was alone in his cabinet.

It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown back and hands earrings, seemed asleep. However,
Josephine that was around the cabinet, dared to look through the
crack in the door and noted that it had eyes open, wide open, and
his brow was furrowed anxiously.

Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children have
confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.

He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he
said, fixing her a look of timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady shook.

- How you doing here? Who gave you permission to enter?

Have not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further
wrinkling his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

-
Let me kisses.

Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this
indifference and willing overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell
further on his lap and tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me,
godmother.

- Remove!

Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

- Do not you want me?

Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push.

Josefina, after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the
foot of a chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong
in children's hearts, lent strength to resist tears gushing into
her eyes.

Turned to her godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the room. When
he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who until then had found only
flowers in their path. The detachment grew Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve
and shyness of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disipábase sometimes
the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the coldness and dislike of the lady.

-
Madam, Josefina not wear the green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up, went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking her roughly,
said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which in this house you are nobody? What are you
here mercy? Be careful not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very present. Josefina hitherto had been treated as a daughter of
Mr.: henceforth it was regarded as a false child: later, as upstart. The servants pleasure
of revenge with meticulous care before she had to lavish, those receiving harsh rebukes by their
cause. Concha In particular, the microscopic maiden, he felt a joy unspeakable, characteristic
of a vindictive nature, whenever Mrs. somehow showed his disdain for the child collection.

It occupied a room overlooking the garden, bright and spacious. Concha, although first maid
and seamstress in the house, were staying in a dark little room with
patio window, which shared with Mary.

Josefina's cabinet had been provided for her an object of envy. More than once expressed in
words rather heavy for it.

Taking advantage of the disposition of his mistress, was allowed
to sleep well in this cabinet, under the pretext of Paula, who occupied
an adjoining room, was a heavy sleeper.

Comfortably seated himself, he using the toilet and the girl's belongings. A few days later sent
her to sleep with Mary in his old room without saying a word to her mistress. When she found out,
had passed some time: free scolded for not giving rough part, but
did not change the facts accomplished.

Later it occurred to him otherwise degrade. Josefina ate at the table with the lords. The high
and mighty Grandee had not consented to the top: touted by wife,
gave the order, not without reluctance.

Shell penetrated the dislike of his wife, began to plot to deprive this honor to the collection.
Exaggerating what was to be done, how much staining and what disturbed the table service, which
ultimately did not sit and yes it into a little girl who was put on the fourth of the plate,
next to the kitchen. A few days later the same Amalia, in a fit of bad temper, said that this
double service could not be tolerated and will take her to the kitchen
to eat with the servants.

Concha sat on a stool, put a saucer of mud and wooden spoon in hand
and said

- Come.

The girl looked up stunned, but to see the evil grin that shone in his eyes the maid, underthe again
and began to eat without protest.

Concha was not satisfied; wished they rebel mourn view.

- What is that? Do not like the spoon? ... Well, daughter, eat with it, and also how I I'm as
good as you ... What did you think, goofy! Did you think that because you put the hat cambric
shirt and you were a lady ... The ladies do not come tucked in a basket between dirty ...

And there continued releasing jets sarcasm and insults, until at last the poor Josephine began
to mourn. The other maids, less malevolent, were, however, flattered by that humiliation.
At last they did their part, tried to comfort her, while Concha ruthless, tougher and cooler
than marble, chasing a long time continued to boo bloody.

A few days later, Josephine across the room from the plate to go to
the dining room, heard Concha said turning to Mary:

- Say, girl,
have you ironing and clothing hospiciana?

He paused, not knowing whom he meant, and carried his eyes suspicious of one another domestic until
a laugh, both released at the same time, made him understand that this was it.

- Why do you call me hospiciana? - Said the innocent struggling to not mourn .-- I will say
my godmother.

- Lift, runs to tell! - Concha said pushing on the door.

Since then no other name given among the servants.

Amalia forbidden to take her to the living room at night.

The count, who no longer see his daughter more this time, demanded
an explanation.

The lady said, having to get up early to study their lessons, he needed more sleep. He did
not believe that for. Included that it was a dastardly revenge, but was careful to keep silent,
fearing further damage.

Amalia then came up most directly hurt.

The girl, who had been deprived not only for his touch, but of all its preeminence in the house,
on his way to being a maid more. In a flash was completely transformed. The lady gave orders
to guard him all the hats and dresses and secure his the poorest and oldest in the room; that
might make him a gown as the other servants, and are employed in the necessities of I could
run the kitchen.

The Loves of Count and Fernanda were becoming more noticeable. Although they kept house Quiñones
be discussed with privacy, Valencia will not be jealous that hid between them existed. His
eyes pierced like two rays of light on her lover's brain and read
clearly in him.

Luis was in love with his former girlfriend. Adulterous relationships he endured in the soul
like a slab of stone. She, the beloved, beloved of other days, it seemed now old and withered
face that splendid rose just open fully. If not had left and was due to weakness of character,
by the powerful influence that in seven year relationship had acquired over him. But it felt like
something else. I read it perfectly fled in their eyes, in the grim concern that weighed on
him, sometimes broken by sudden and extravagant joy in fear and servility,
increasing, with which approached her.

One night the Count asked for a glass of water. Amalia's eyes flashed
suddenly.

There awaited moment arrived. Rang the bell and said the maiden singular inflection who attended:

-
Paula, bring a glass of water.

A few moments later she appeared Josefina, poorly dressed, with a
fabric mandilito coarse, rough shod your feet with shoes, supporting
work between his small hands a tray with a glass of water and sugar
cube.

The circles were stunned. Luis pale.

He moved the girl to the middle of the room, looking timidly at her godmother. This made him a
sign that come near the count.

The gentleman hesitated as if distracted, but seeing the creature planted before him, hastened
to take the cup and took it with a trembling hand to his lips.

Eyes Amalia were shown as cold, indifferent, but his lips had undetectable tremors revealing the cruel
joy I felt. Reigned in the party, while Following this stage, a significant silence.

After Joseph had gone, Mrs. Quinones said his conversations with ease that move. It was a necessary
punishment to the pride that the girl began to show with the servants.
Not last long.

However, needed to beat the clock will Quinones, who opposed it was brought up with much care.

-
The truth is - concluded with an accent so natural that any actress would find it more appropriate
to the occasion, - the truth is that sometimes I can not help him right in me. What good would it
do to this poor girl placing her in a situation where there has to be sustainable? Tomorrow
we die, the poor need to scratch a living working, unless they find
a husband ... What husband is going to give a girl needs and no money?

The circles did not fall into the trap. In reality neither she intended. Everything came to be reduced
to pure convention, since no one is hiding what was underneath. Soon after, unable to master the discomfort
he felt, the count dismissed.

- The business of Louis does not appear at all well - said late Manuel Antonio in a group who
retires by Altavilla Street, where they were Maria Josefa, the Pensioner
and his daughter Jovita .-- The Fernanda married, if he gets to perform,
it must cost much trouble.

- Do you think Maria Josefa ?...-- asked
to pull his tongue.

- Mother!

... Are you dumb, woman? Do not know Amalia like me?

- What must
be based on the marriage of Amalia Luis? - Asked Jovita, who as maiden,
but had turned thirty-two patent suit him do his candor.

- Ay! It
is true that we had here this fanciullina - exclaimed, making funny
gestures fright, the fag .-- I had no charge! ... Nothing, Monin,
nothing moves forward, these are things of the great ...

Pensioner's
daughter became angry when he felt the pinprick and replied with a
phrase insolent. Pagola Manuel Antonio with another, and engaged in
lively overflowing with words bitter dispute and intended that lasted
until retired house, but not before he had made some vain efforts
to make peace between them. Took the best part, as always, the queer,
they had to launch their sentences the force of men and the subtle
intention of females.

The next day the count did an interview with
Amalia and gave his complaints about the scene the previous night.
The lady said kindly, condescending, he justified his conduct by the
good of the child. Luis noted, however, speaking in a particular way,
thought he heard in the honey of his words a hint of bitterness and
irony that startled him. Came worried restless: in a few days of each
other could not remove the discomfort of that interview.

But love
set fire rapidly in all the chambers of his soul and consumed at the
end that last bit of concern. He was deeply in love. And as always
happens, growing alongside her love also increased his shyness. At
first, in their long conversations Fernanda, appeared serene, polite,
forgiving no way of proving to his ex-girlfriend admiration and performance.
Suddenly began to lose his poise, to flee all matters related to their
own feelings, avoid phrases gallant. Fernanda was not wrong. Now is
the time that love had come, after which time both had run, so many
tears had cost.

His talks, but were indifferent affairs, had a delicate,
exquisite.  Poor thing!  I must be very tender over her--very careful what I
say to her."

And following this intention, instead of sending for Miss Bennett into the dining-room, as
Miss Gascoigne probably expected, for she sat in great state, determined to "come to the root
of the matter," as she expressed it, Mrs. Grey went out and met her in the hall.

"You are the lady whom my sister-in-law engaged as governess?"

"Yes, ma'am.  And you are Mrs. Grey?" peering at her with some curiosity; for, as every body
knew every thing in Avonsbridge, no doubt Miss Bennett was perfectly well aware that Dr. Grey's
young wife was the ci-devant governess at Mr. Ferguson's.

"Will you walk up into my room?  I wanted a word with you before lessons."

"Certainly, Mrs. Grey.  I hope you are quite satisfied with my instruction of Miss Grey.  Indeed,
my recommendations--as I told Miss Gascoigne--include some of the very first families--"

"I have no doubt Miss Gascoigne was satisfied," interrupted Mrs. Grey, not quite liking the
flippant manner, the showy style of dress, and the air, at once subservient and forward; in
truth, something which, despite her prettiness, stamped the governess as underbred, exactly
what Aunt Henrietta had said--"not a lady."

"Your qualifications for teaching I have no wish to investigate; what I have to speak about
is a totally different thing."

Miss Bennett looked uneasy for a minute, but Christian's manner was so studiously polite, even
kindly, that she seemed to think nothing could be seriously wrong.  She sat down composedly
on the crimson sofa, and began investigating, with admiring, curious, and rather envious eyes,
the handsome room, half boudoir, half bed-chamber.

"Oh, Mrs. Grey, what a nice room this is!  How you must enjoy it!  It's a hard life, teaching
children."

"It is a hard life, as I know, for I was once a governess myself."

This admission, given so frankly, without the least hesitation, evidently quite surprised Miss
Bennett.  With still greater curiosity than the fine room, she regarded the fine lady who had
once been a governess, and was not ashamed to own it.

"Well, all I can say is, you have been very lucky in your marriage, Mrs. Grey; I only wish
I might be the same."

"That is exactly--" said Christian, catching at any thing in her nervous difficulty as to how
she should open such an unpleasant subject--"no, not exactly, but partly, what I wished to
speak to you about.  Excuse a plain, almost rude question, which you can refuse to answer if
you like; but, Miss Bennett, I should be very glad to know if you are engaged?"

"Engaged by Miss Gascoigne?"

"No; engaged to be married."

Miss Bennett drew back, blushed a little, looked much annoyed, and answered sharply, apparently
involuntarily, "No!"

"Then--excuse me again--I would not ask if I did not feel it absolutely my duty, in order that
we may come to a right understanding--but the gentleman you were walking with yesterday, when
you asked Letitia to meet you in Walnut-tree Court, was he a brother, or cousin, or what?"

Susan Bennett was altogether confounded.  "How did you find it all out?  Did the child tell?--the
horrid little--but of course she did.  And then you set on and watched me!  That was a nice
trick for one lady to play another."

"You are mistaken," replied Christian, gravely; "I found this out by the merest accident; and
as I can not allow the child to do the same thing again, I thought it the most honest course
to tell you at once of the discovery I made, and receive your explanations."

"You can't get them; I have a perfect right to walk with whom I please?"

"Most certainly; but not to take Dr. Grey's little daughter with you as a companion.  Don't
you see, Miss Bennett"--feeling sorry for the shame and pain she fancied she must be inflicting--"how
injurious these sort of proceedings must be to a little girl, who ought to know nothing about
love at all--(pardon my concluding this is a love affair)--till she comes to it seriously,
earnestly, and at a fitting age?  And then the deception, underhandedness--can not you see
how wrong it was to make secret appointments with a child, and induce her to steal out of the
house unknown to both nurse and mother?"

"You are not her own mother, Mrs. Grey, it don't affect you."

"Pardon me," returned Christian very distantly, as she perceived her delicacy was altogether
wasted upon this impertinent young woman, who appeared well able to hold her own under any
circumstances, "it does affect me so much that, deeply as I shall regret it, I must offer you
a check for your three months' salary.  Your engagement, I believe, was quarterly, and I must
beg of you to consider it canceled."

Miss Bennett turned red and pale; the offensive tone sank into one pitifully weak and cringing.

"Oh, Mrs. Grey! don't be hard upon me; I'm a poor governess, doing my best, and father has
a large family of us, and the shop isn't as thriving as it was.  Don't turn me away, and I'll
never meet the young fellow again."

There was a little natural feeling visible through the ultra-humility of the girl's manner,
and when she took out a coarse but elaborately laced pocket-handkerchief, and wept upon it
abundantly, Christian's heart melted.

"I am very sorry for you--very sorry indeed; but what can I do?  Will you tell me candidly,
are you engaged to this gentleman?"

"No, not exactly; but I am sure I shall be by-and-by."

"He is your lover, then? he ought to be, if, as Letitia says, you go walking together every
evening."

"Well, and if I do, it's nobody's business but my own, I suppose; and it's very hard it should
lose me my situation."

So it was.  Mrs. Grey remembered her own "young days," as she now called them--remembered them
with pity rather than shame; for she had done nothing wrong.  She had deceived no one, only
been herself deceived--in a very harmless fashion, just because, in her foolish, innocent heart,
which knew nothing of the world and the world's wiles, she thought no man would ever be so
mean, so cowardly, as to tell a girl he loved her unless he meant it in the true, noble, knightly
way--a lover

    "Who loved one woman, and who clave to her"

--clave once and forever. A vague tenderness hung about those days yet, enough to make her
cast the halo of her sympathy over even commonplace Susan Bennett.

"Will you give me your confidence?  Who is this friend of yours, and why does he not at once
ask you for his wife?  Perhaps he is poor and can not afford to marry?"

"Oh.  dear me!  I'm not so stupid as to think of a poor man, Bless you! he has a title and
an estate too.  If I get him I shall make a splendid marriage."

Christian recoiled.  Her sympathy was altogether thrown away.  There evidently was not a point
in common between foolish Christian Oakley, taking dreamy twilight saunters under the apple-trees--not
alone; looking up to her companion as something between Sir Launcelot and the Angel Gabriel--and
this girl, carrying on a clandestine flirtation, which she hoped would--and was determined
to make--end in a marriage, with a young man much above her own station, and just because he
was so.  As for loving him in the sense that Christian had understood love, Miss Bennett was
utterly incapable of it.  She never thought of love at all--only of matrimony.

Still, the facts of the case boded ill.  A wealthy young nobleman, and a pretty, but coarse
and half-educated shopkeeper's daughter--no good could come of the acquaintance--perhaps fatal
harm.  Once more Christian thought she would try to conquer her disgust, and win the girl to
better things.

"I do not wish to intrude--no third person has a right to intrude upon these affairs; but I
wish I could be of any service.  You must perceive, Miss Bennett, that your proceedings are
not quite right--not quite safe. Are you sure you know enough about this gentleman?  How long
have you been acquainted with him?  He probably belongs to the University."

Miss Bennnett laughed.  "Not he--at least not now.  He got into a scrape and left it, and has
only been back here a week; but I have found out where his estate is, and all about him.  He
has the prettiest property, and is perfectly independent, and a baronet likewise.  Only think"--and
the girl, recovering her spirits, tossed her handsome head, and spread out her showy, tawdry
gown--"only think of being called 'Lady!'--Lady Uniacke."

Had Miss Bennett been less occupied in admiring herself in the mirrors she must have seen the
start Mrs. Grey gave--for the moment only, however--and then she spoke.

"Sir Edwin Uniacke's character here is well known.  He is a bad man. For you to keep up any
acquaintance with him is positive madness."

"Not in the least; I know perfectly what I am about, and can take care of myself, thank you.
He has sown his wild oats, and got a title and estate, which makes a very great difference.
Besides, I hope I'm as sharp as he.  I shall not let myself down, no fear.  I'll make him make
me Lady Uniacke."

Christian's pity changed into something very like disgust. Many a poor, seduced girl would
have appeared to her less guilty, less degraded than this girl, who, knowing all a man's antecedents,
which she evidently did--bad as he was, set herself deliberately to marry him--a well-planned,
mercenary marriage, by which she might raise herself out of her low station into a higher,
and escape from the drudgery of labor into ease and splendor.

And yet is not the same thing done every day in society by charming young ladies, aided and
abetted by most prudent, respectable, and decorous fathers and mothers?  Let these, who think
themselves so sinless, cast the first stone at Susan Bennett.

But to Christian, who had never been in society, and did not know the ways of it, the sensation
conveyed was one of absolute repulsion.  She rose.

"I fear, Miss Bennett, that if we continued this conversation forever we should never agree.
It only proves to me more and more the impossibility of your remaining my daughter's governess.
Allow me to pay you, and then let us part at once."

But the look of actual dismay which came over the girl's face once more made her pause.

"You send me away with no recommendation--and I shall never get another situation--and I have
hardly a thing to put on--and I'm in debt awfully.  You are cruel to me, Mrs. Grey--you that
have been a governess yourself."  And she burst into a passion of hysterical crying.

"What can I do?" said Christian sadly.  "I can not keep you----I dare not.  And it is equally
true that I dare not recommend you.  If I could find any thing else--not with children--something
you really could do, and which would take you away from this town--"

"I'd go any where----do any thing to get my bread, for it comes to that. If I went home and
told father this--if he found out why I had lost my situation, he'd turn me out of doors. 
And except this check, which is owed nearly all, I haven't one halfpenny--I really haven't.
Mrs. Grey. It's all very well for you to talk--you in your fine house and comfortable clothes;
but you don't know what it is to be shabby, cold, miserable.  You don't know what it is to
be in dread of starving."

"I do," said Christian, solemnly.  It was true.

The shudder which came over her at thought of these remembered days obliterated every feeling
about the girl except the desire to help her, blameworthy though she was, in some way that
could not possibly injure any one else.

Suddenly she recollected that Mrs. Ferguson was in great need of some one to take care of Mr.
Ferguson's old blind mother, who lived forty miles distant from Avonsbridge.  If she spoke
to her about Miss Bennett, and explained, without any special particulars, that, though unfit
to be trusted with children, she might do well enough with an old woman in a quiet village,
Mrs. Ferguson, whose kind-heartedness was endless, might send her there at once.

"Will you go? and I will tell nobody my reasons for dismissing you," said Christian, as earnestly
as if she had been asking instead of conferring a favor.  Her kindness touched even that bold,
hard nature.

"You are very good to me; and perhaps I don't deserve it."

"Try to deserve it.  If I get this situation for you, will you make me one promise?"

"A dozen,"

"One is enough--that you will give up Sir Edwin Uniacke."

"How do you mean?"

"Don't meet him, don't write to him--don't hold any communication with him for three months.
If he wants you, let him come and ask you like an honest man."

Miss Bennett shook her head.  "He's a baronet, you know."

"No matter.  An honest man and an honest woman are perfectly equal, even though one is a baronet
and the other a daily governess.  And, if love is worth any thing, it will last three months;
if worth nothing, it had better go."

But even while she was speaking--plain truths which she believed with her whole heart--Christian
felt, in this case, the bitter satire of her words.

Susan Bennett only smiled at them in a vague, uncomprehending way. "Would you have trusted
your lover--that means Dr. Grey, I suppose-- for three months?"

Mrs. Grey did not reply.  But her heart leaped to think how well she knew the answer.  No need
to speak of it, though.  It would be almost profanity to talk to this women, who knew about
as much of it as an African fetish-worshipper knows of the Eternal--of that love which counts
fidelity not by months and years; which, though it has its root in mortal life, stretches out
safely and fearlessly into the life everlasting.

"Well, I'll go, and perhaps my going away will bring him to the point," was the fond resolution
of Miss Susan Bennett.

Mrs. Grey, infinitely relieved, wrote the requisite letters and dismissed her, determined to
call that day and explain as much of the matter to honest Mrs. Ferguson as might put the girl
in a safe position, where she would have a chance of turning out well, or, at least, better
than if she had remained at Avonsbridge.

Then Christian had time to think of herself.  Here was Sir Edwin Uniacke--this daring, unscrupulous
man, close at her very doors; meeting her at evening parties; making acquaintance with her
children, for Titia had told her how kind the gentleman was, and how politely he had inquired
after her "new mamma."

Of vanity, either to be wounded or flattered, Christian had absolutely none.  And she had never
read French novels.  It no more occurred to her that Sir Edwin would come and make love to
her, now she was Dr. Grey's wife, than that she herself should have any feeling--except pity--
in knowing of his love-affair with Miss Bennett.  She was wholly and absolutely indifferent
with regard to him and all things concerning him. Even the events of last night and this morning
were powerless to cast more than a momentary gravity over her countenance--gone the instant
she heard her husband calling her from his open study door.

"I wanted to hear how you managed Miss Bennett, you wise woman.  Is it a lover?"

"I fear so, and not a creditable one.  But I am certain of one thing.  She does not love him--she
only wants to marry him."

"A distinction with a difference," said Dr. Grey, smiling.  "And you don't agree with her,
my dear?"

"I should think not!"

Again Dr. Grey smiled.  "How fiercely she speaks! What a tiger this little woman of mine could
be if she chose.  And so she absolutely believes in the old superstition that love is an essential
element of matrimony."

"You are laughing at me."

"No, my darling, God forbid.  I am only--happy."

"Are you really, really happy?  Do you think I can make you so--I, with all my unworthiness?"

"I am sure of it."

She looked up in his face from out of his close arms, and they talked no more.

Chapter 10.

    "Get thee behind me, Satan!
     I know no other word:
     There is a battle that must be fought,
     And fought but with the sword--

    "The clear, sharp, stainless, glittering sword
     Of purity divine:
     I'll hew my way through a host of fiends,
     If that strong sword be mine."

"I wish Mrs. Grey, you would learn to hold yourself a little more upright, and look a little
more like the master's wife--a lady in as good a position as any in Avonsbridge--and a little
less like a Resignation or a Patience on a monument."

"I am sure I beg your pardon," said Christian, laughing "I have not the slightest feeling either
of resignation or patience.  I am afraid I was thinking over something much more worldly--that
plan about Miss Bennett's new situation of which I have just been telling you"--told as briefly
as she could, for it was not very safe to trust Miss Gascoigne with any thing.  "Also of the
people we met last night at the vice chancellor's."

"And that reminds me--why don't you go and change your dress?  I hate a morning-gown, as I
wish you particularly to look as respectable as you can.   We are sure to have callers to-day."

"Are we?  Why?"

"To inquire for our health after last night's entertainment.  It is a customary attention;
but, of course, you can not be expected to be acquainted with these sort of things.  Besides,
one gentleman especially asked my permission to call today--a man of position and wealth, whose
acquaintance--"

"Oh, please tell me about him after I come back," said Christian, hopelessly, "and I will go
and dress at once."

"Take that boy with you.  He never was allowed to be in the drawing- room.  Get up, Arthur,"
in the sharp tone in which the most trivial commands were always conveyed to the children,
which, no doubt, Miss Gascoigne thought--as many well-meaning parents and guardians do think--is
the best and safest assertion of authority.  But it had made of Letitia a cringing slave, and
of Arthur a confirmed rebel, as he now showed himself to be.

"I won't go, Aunt Henrietta!  I like this sofa.  I'll not stir an inch!"

"I command you!  Obey me, sir!"

Arthur pulled an insolent face, at which his aunt rose up and boxed his ears.

This sort of scene had been familiar enough to Christian in the early days of her marriage.
It always made her unhappy, but she attempted no resistance.  Either she felt no right or she
had no courage.  Now, things were different.

She caught Miss Gascoigne's uplifted hand, and Arthur's, already raised to return the blow.

"Stop! you must not touch that child.  And, Arthur, how can you be so naughty!  Beg your aunt's
pardon, immediately!"

But Arthur began to sob and cough--that ominous cough which was their dread and pain still.
It did not touch the heart of Aunt Henrietta.

"We shall see who is mistress here.  I will at once send for Dr. Grey. Maria, ring the bell."

Poor Aunt Maria, the most subservient of women, was about to do it, when fate interfered in
the shape of Barker and a visiting card, which changed the whole current of Miss Gascoigne's
intentions.

"Sir Edwin Uniacke!  the very gentleman I was speaking of. Although a presumption on my part, I beg you let me go tuteándote when we're
alone ... I do not forget, I can not ever forget how many hours of happiness I owe, how much happiness
you have poured into my life dull and dreary. You have revealed me as sweet and intimate that
existed in my heart without me even suspected. For you have been the first stirrings of my
soul. Only you have penetrated so far into it, you've probed and know their blues, their weaknesses,
and tenderness. If I separate from you, if I say goodbye our love, do not think it's because
I no longer required: only obey a law of nature that drives us all to create a family. I have
no more than the world My mother, a poor old woman soon leave me alone ... You should not want
to seem wrong make a home and have an heir of my name and my title ... Moreover, the cry of conscience
chasing me ...

The Count, delighted with the improvement of the girl, showed more expansive and talkative than usual
could not hide the happiness that was upon him, thinking that everything was arranged as their
wishes. Josefina happy next to his mother beside him happy Fernanda; Amalia taxed resigned
and sweet and always love the purest daily.

It looked at him with mock curiosity. When he finished, he smiled benevolently:

- Especially since the night you saw that lovely Fernanda with low-cut
dress, that cry must have become unbearable.

The Count smiled, embarrassed.

- Do not believe it, Amalia, I've always felt remorseful. It is clear that to be an old one see
things more clearly. My beard and bleaching in several places, as you are watching. What a young
person can apologize as madness, as the hopelessness of the fire expansion runs through the
veins, called on an old crime. Love, at the age where I am, should not cover with their wings
in the light of reason, and if the lid deserve the label of a fool. My serna bitter resolution
may both. To me it is much, I can hardly let go of a passion that time force has almost become
a habit. There is also, by Unfortunately, a bond between the two
completely unbreakable.

Fate has given birth the mire of our sin a beautiful flower, a naive lily. Murdering his depart
Front: as it has been generated by an illegitimate love, not spotted with our behavior reprehensible.
Let us make ourselves worthy of it live as Christians.

- It is well that. I just feel that this course of Christian doctrine has been so late and
coincided with the arrival in this population of your old girlfriend. Because it looks and
if you had forgotten all about the catechism, and she came to refresh
your memory.

But in sum, I must not get involved because it does not concern me.
The result is that you marry.

Do well.

The only bad man, and when is a worthy companion, as you have found, no to miss the occasion.
Fernanda is a good girl, I'm sure that will make you happy.

You will have many children and, after a long and happy life, you will go to heaven.

Luis watched; that resignation and could not help but feel some concern.

- And you will be happy too? - Asked timidly.

- Me?

... What matters to me to be happy or unhappy! - Said, shrugging
his shoulders with a gesture dismissive.

- Do not say that, Amalia!

Happiness is not madness to give us seven years.

There was a bitter aftertaste that I perceived it long ago, and you
would soon perceive.

A pure and decent life, peace of conscience, the estimation of honest
people give you more happy that the guilty passion ... You also have
what I have no ... have by your side an angel, a sweet and fragrant
lily to embalm your existence.

- Ah, yes, Josefina!

... Indeed, it will provide to me the only good times we pass on.

He said a strange voice inflection, so sharp and shrill, that Louis felt a chill.

- What do you mean?

- What I have said, which fortunately I have a Josephine to recover.

- Is that what you say in a way so weird!

The Valencian chuckled unique out beyond the bottom of the throat
and sounded so sinister.

Luis stared at her, getting restless.

- But what a fool you, Luis!

But what retontísimo! Selfishness has such cataracts your eyes do not see or what you have ahead.
If you had twenty years, that innocence may might inspire pity your age does not inspire me more
than laughter and contempt. Think that four palabrillas insolent about morals and conscience
would be enough to force me to accept satisfied with the humiliation that I impose, I suppose,
if you do not know who you ought to know, I agree that I throw like a dirty rag, which I love
drag as a captive at the foot of Fernanda to serve you up a cushion
when your bed is the height of stupidity and bravado.

Why not also ask me to be your bridesmaid?

The count watched with eyes wide, expressing anxiety and fear.

-
So what I have said about the torture you happen to our daughter is
that true?

- And so accurate!

And still not know completely ... Look, I referírtelos everyone to not mislead you ...

And with word brief, incisive, with a cruel satisfaction that is reflected
by the voice, he front of the big picture of the miseries and horrible
pain that the unfortunate creature had suffered in recent months.

That painting was infinitely more terrifying than Mary had exhibited
the ironer.

The count, pale, haggard, without the slightest movement, it seemed the statue of despair. After
a while she covered her face with her hands and so listened to the
end.

- Oh, how vile!

Oh, how vile! - Murmured softly.

- Yes, very infamous, but still hope to be more.

Have you heard all these outrages?

Well, are nothing compared with that will.

- Not gonna make such a wicked child, - uttered Luis rising and rushing to her .-- Before you
drown in my hands.

The Valencian escaped out the door.

- If you take a step further, cry!

- Oh, infamous, infamous! - She cried a deep voice Count .-- And God
agrees on land these monsters!

He stepped back and fell back on the couch.

He rested his elbows on his knees and put his head in his hands.

After a long silence up, saying:

- Well, what do you demand of me?

Amalia took a step closer.

- What you need and expect, if you have a little common sense.

I do not demand that our relationships continue because the terms
we have reached is not possible: it would therefore and beg for your
love, and I have too much pride for that.

But neither you nor I want that woman laughing at you to stay me
not want to serve as mockery to those who know our relationships,
which are all frequented the house.

I demand, therefore, as a condition for the child re- to what it
was that break immediately with Fernanda and do not remember most
of it.

- But Amalia! - Cried with pain accent .-- Well you understand
that is impossible.

My wedding is concert; not already know all Lancia: Fernanda waiting
for me in Madrid, missing a few days ...

- Although it is one minute.

This wedding was not held. Fernanda If you marry, your daughter will pay the grievance in the
manner you know.

- Oh! I stop you. Give part to the authority.

I will ask for the deposit of the child.

- That's only talk, Luis
- replied calmly and smiling .-- Amalia authorities Lancia are making
of Quiñones.

No one will dare to declare a word against me.

- I refer particularly
D. Pedro.

- Do not believe, and if you believed, what would advance?

Instead of stopping my revenge, as yours too, help me.

There was a long silence.

Count meditated with his forehead resting in his hand.

Suddenly rose violently and began to give tours agitated murmuring

-
No way!

Can not be!

The Valencia was followed by sight. After all, said taking a step toward the door:

- Bye.

The count stopped with a gesture.

- Wait.

Amalia stood motionless, his hand on the door frame, he looked sharply.

The count continued walking a few moments still ignoring it.

- Okay - said hoarsely, standing, - not be marriage. You tell me what to do.

His haggard face showed the calmness of despair.

- Need to write a letter to Fernanda waving goodbye.

- I will write.

- Right now.

- Right now.

Amalia went to the stairs and asked Jacoba writing material. As there was no table put it on
the dresser. The count went up and started to write up.

Amalia also approached.

- Is this what I want you to write - presenting a paper said.

It was the draft letter. The count he scanned it.

"My good friend Fernanda - he said - I wanted to tell you you were writing what word would be beyond my strength.
I can not be yours.

No need to explain the reasons because you the guess.

I would love you enough to get through everything and run away with you. Unfortunately or
fortunately, there are things that weigh on my heart more than your
love.

Forgive the Having A fooled and try to be happy as you want your
best friend - Luis.

"

He traced the lines of this letter with a trembling hand.

Before concluding, some tears came their eyes.

XV

Josefina sleep.

The Grandee noble easily gave the author of her shame. So read the anonymous and recovered from
the shock, their suspicions went to the Count de Onis. Nothing else pushed him It seemed that, now
clearly warned, between it and the child collection. As others, or because excessive pride
blindfolded or have you had known for Amalia deceived, never noticed among them more than a
cold and ceremonious friendship that had nothing offensive. The same pride stopped during their
bitter thoughts to this account: Why give assent to what the anonymous said? Why not assume
that it was a vile slander an enemy that wanted to poison his existence? But as the dart had
entered deep in his heart he could not wrest. All considerations desire suggested it was not
enough to destroy the great certainty that, without knowing how he had been cast Rondon in the brain.
Some details, which had gone unnoticed for him, acquired suddenly
high relief, rose like torches to guide you.

The main all was, of course, the illness of his wife, coinciding with the onset of girl. He remembered
the strange tenacity with which he opposed any doctor to come up and see it then the mime, the
exquisite care that is lavished on the creature. Also attended his memory those visits that
once made his wife the pretext of picking Farm some plants. No situation was concerning the friendship
of the count and finding the girl, not stirred and weighed in his thinking.

It became a quiet and thoughtful. The hard eyes sunken eyes rested strongly in Amalia long
as it came into his room. On different occasions, he brought the child on any pretext and
looked long, trying to decipher the features of his face the riddle of his existence. Amalia
watched all this, and so well read in the brain of her husband as an open book.

- When Louis married? - Asked him one day in affective tone distracted Grandee.

- They say they still take some time. I do not know what needs to fix issues before going to
Madrid - answered with greater confidence.

- Continued on the Farm?

- Always. Comes only occasionally in the evening, as I said one day
I found him in the shop of Barrosa.

The next night just appeared in the party the count.

- How? You here? Have you already returned the Farm? - Asked D. Pedro, stabbing a penetrating gaze.

-
Definitely not. I have the car down, and go back to sleep.

- You are bored there, right? - Asked D. Christopher Matthew.

- On the day there. I am very busy with farm work, the mill, bugs, etc. But the nights are so
long! ...

Luis came only to see his daughter.

Amalia did not permit until the child was moderately response.

Dress again as before and returned the privileges I had. But not caring. The spell was broken.

Because
Luis loathed: he was subjected to force.

With this burning passion, with that love full of mystery and pleasure
had also joined the crowd at the creature.

But the martyrdom that his anger had made him insane suffering from
a chasm opened between them.

Josefina ever love to his executioner. The poor girl, dressed in rich costumes, wandering alone
through the palace Quiñones, without finding no tenderness. Amalia fleeing from it. The servants,
ashamed of their ill-treatment and despite the sudden change, which rose again on the foundling them,
not on speaking terms. The long-suffering and martyrdom that the dreaded disease ended had left
deep scars on his face. His pale face shone through as nacre. Around that circle the eyes remained
dark, black, agitation and pain.

The count felt his heart tighten every time I see it. Costabal work back tears.

Amalia did not inform his reckless anonymous lover who had led Quiñones. Fearing by the attitude of
this, some grave event, resolviose to mislead you, and to become
Calm was not possible.

The party he chose was suspected Luis away and direct them to James
Moor.

It was only because of their age, shape and position could appear credible as a lover. Began
to treat him in the presence of D. Pedro, with particular affection, distinguishing it from other
talk shows so tired visible.

Looks and smiles Dirigíale significant, liked to stand behind his chair when he was playing
ombre, and tease; llamábale every moment under any pretext and held
him beside her long times speaking in secret, bringing the account
over his face to hers.

It was not so easy as it may seem Moro seduce, if only in appearance. There was nothing unfriendly;
On the contrary, enjoyed fame of chivalrous and gallant with the ladies. But when the ladies became
incompatible with the pool or sitting not more rude and wild were six miles around. Amalia
infinitely mortified him by withholding when ombre waiting for him.

Then do not respond according to your questions, smiled and ran machine
frequent and covetous eyes at the table where his classmates and enjoyed
some sweetness Please turn to bat.

- Moro, you sit here, let's chat.

Moro shivering the world was coming over. He sat beside the lady with a face long, long, which
gave no clear idea of ​​the passion that was burning in his chest.

The Grandee had done little for those asides, preferences and smiles suggestive of his wife. I
looked distracted eyes, not to mind any venírsele suspicion, concerned
entirely with the real track.

However, after a few days Amalia and both insisted there was such
skill that the noble knight began to notice Those signs and give them
some value.

The Valencia felt the pleasure of triumph.

Their calculations their way to perform. And to give strong and decisive
impetus to its plot, it occurred when a trick pilgrim.

She was sitting in a corner, taking his side to Jaime Moro, in full view of D. Pedro. Moro, distracted
as usual. Quiñones's wife needed do wonders ability to sustain the conversation, I smiled, petted
him, wrapped him in a network of honeyed words, which strongly emphasized with a smile to draw
D. attention Pedro.

- What is that? Are you looking at my bracelet?

Moro had not noticed it.

- It's very nice - was quick to say complacency.

- It belonged to
my mother.

Has more merit than it seems. This portrait, which is to my grandmother, is made of mosaic
... see you.

At the same time raised his hand.

Moro gazed with admiration affected.

- Fix you well.

And the rose even more, putting it near the eyes. Noting the corner of my eye Don Peter looked
at her, still rose slightly, to almost her young lips. But At that moment live abruptly withdrew
gesture. Moro was stunned. Unwittingly glanced toward D. Peter, and noting that he drove a cold,
penetrating gaze, flushed to the ears. Amalia got up and left the room, as if to conceal his
embarrassment.

It was great that proud Grandee seized with the secret thought surprising. His ideas have experienced
violent shaking. Agitated by a thousand suspicions to the contrary, dominated by a furious rage,
his trembling hands moved between cards, without thinking about them,
imagining horrible revenge on his wife and against ...

Against whom?

What was the traitor? The question further ignited their rage.

What he saw was either inconclusive. And yet, his mind could not depart the Count de Onis. Against
the testimony of his own eyes alleged instinct, an inner voice constantly stated that his enemy.

It
appeared in the party. Amalia greeted coldly and went straight to the cabinet, but Manuel Antonio
kept him swinging for the skirt of his coat.
- Where are you, Luis? Come here, boy, you enfrasques us so early
in the game. Mira, Maria Josefa and Jovita here have been disputing
all night on the date of your marriage. I have told them: "Do not
quarrel over. If today is Luis, is so nice that you have insurance
you to say. "

- For those you cheated - said the count closer to
the group.

- So you have become rude?

- It is not rude, it is ignorance.
These girls know very well that things are not made never as they
want. If I tell them now is a time and prove to the other, think I
had tried to make fun of them.

Despite the efforts made to smile,
the countenance of the count reflected infinite sadness. His voice
was coming off and hoarse.

- No, no! Not so! - Jovita said laughing
you .-- Tell us any day, although it then another, thinking it was
not by choice.

- Well, tomorrow.

- That either! - Both maids shouted
jubilant.

- Not easy to please you. What day want to marry me? You
point it out.

The count had not said a word to anyone for the breakup
of his marriage. The innate weakness of his character forced him to
shut up a story that soon was to spread. I was afraid public curiosity
to questions, to which he divined the face of such causes resolution.
And trembled and deeply saddened whenever, as now, he played this
point.

Hitherto it had nothing transpired. He believed in the city
one day to another would to Madrid to meet with his future. However,
Manuel Antonio, whose nose was above of all his contemporaries, had
smelled something. And with the tenacity and cunning of Isabel England,
began to gather news and connect the dots so that when this who is
much closer to the truth.

- Very sad to see these days, Luisito -
he snapped .-- More than double you will face.

The count was troubled
and knew not to answer most forced smile:

- Marriage is a very serious
step.

He tried to leave, but retain Manuel Antonio again. At all
costs I wanted to find the key to the riddle, namely a positive way
what I suspected. And the help of Maria Josepha he knew better what
to expect, the conversation stayed alert for some time on thorny issue.
Luis was in embers. Frequent glances directed to the site of Amalia
as claiming it was obliged to grant. Arose at last the lady came to
the door and returned to sit. A few moments appeared pale and soft
Josefina. Sad eyes wandered around the room, and a sign of her godmother
turned his steps to the cabinet. Crossing behind the count, he turned
it half and threw a quick look and anxious which did not escape the
sagacity of its partners. The girl looked up at him, glittering with
happy smile. Magnetic shock was a sudden he burned all the joy your
child's heart. The circles they called it, tried to hold her, but
she, obeying the order of his godmother, went to the cabinet. A few
moments later he heard the harsh voice Quinones.

- Is not the Comte
de Onis out there? How not to go?

- Here I go, D. Peter - was quick
to respond Luis, glad to be separated from those annoying group.

Upon
entering the cabinet came in less time than referring it can take
on a terrible scene that ended in shock and awe the entire gathering.
D. Peter was with cards in hand and the same Jaime Moro and D. Enrique
Valero. Saleta, which made the room, talking the chaplain sitting
behind him. Around the table were three or four people standing watching
the game. About Josefina was Grandee noble with his arms crossed waiting
for your blessing to go to bed.

"It was a very rude joke, and you ought to beg your aunt's pardon immediately," said Christian,
gravely.

But begging pardon was not half enough salve to the wounded dignity of Miss Gascoigne.  She
had been personally offended--that greatest of all crimes in her eyes--and she demanded condign
punishment. Nothing short of that well-known instrument which, in compliment to Arthur's riper
years, Phillis had substituted for the tied up posy of twigs chosen out of her birch broom--a
little, slender yellow thing, which black children might once upon a time have played with,
and the use of which towards white children inevitably teaches them a sense of burning humiliation,
rising into fierce indignation and desire for revenge, not unlike the revenge of negro slaves.
And naturally; for while chastisement makes Christians, punishment only makes brutes.

Almost brutal grew the expression of Arthur's poor thin face when his aunt insisted on a flogging
with the old familiar cane, and after the old custom, by Phillis's hands.

"Do it, and I'll kill Phillis!" was all he said, but he looked as if he could, and would.

And when Phillis appeared, not unready or unwilling to execute the sentence--for she had bitterly
resented Arthur's secession from nursery rule--the boy clung desperately with both his arms
round his step- mother's waist, and the shriek of "Mother mother!" half fury, half despair,
pierced Christian's very heart.

Now Mrs. Grey had a few rather strong opinions of her own on the subject of punishment, especially
corporal punishment.  She thought it degraded rather than reformed, in most cases; and wherever
she herself had seen it tried, it had always signally and fatally failed.  At the utmost, the
doubtfulness of the experiment was so great that she felt it ought never to be administered
for any but grave moral offenses--theft, lying, or the like.  Not certainly in such a case
as the present--a childish fault, perhaps only a childish folly, where no moral harm was either
done or intended.

"I didn't mean it!  I didn't, mother!" cried the boy, incessantly, as he clung to her for protection.
And Christian held him fast.

"Miss Gascoigne, if you will consider a little, I think you will see that Arthur's punishment
had better be of some other sort than flogging. We will discuss it between ourselves.  Phillis,
you can go."

But Phillis did not offer to stir.

"Nurse, obey my orders," screamed Miss Gascoigne.  "Take that wicked boy and cane him soundly."

"Nurse," said Christian, turning very pale, and speaking in an unusually suppressed voice,
"if you lay one finger on my son you quit my service immediately."

The assumption of authority was so unexpected, so complete, and yet not overstepping one inch
the authority which Mrs. Grey really possessed, that both sister-in-law and servant stood petrified,
and offered no resistance, until Miss Gascoigne said, quivering with passion.

"This can not go on.  I will know at once my rights in this house, or quit it.  Phillis, knock
at the study-door and say I wish to speak to Dr. Grey--that is, if Mrs. Grey, your mistress,
will allow you."

"Certainly," said Christian.

And then, drawing Arthur beside her, and sitting down, for she felt shaking in every limb,
she waited the event; for it was a struggle which she had long felt must come, and the sooner
it came the better.  There are crises when the "peace-at-any-price" doctrine becomes a weakness-
-more, an absolute wrong.  Much as she would have suffered, and had suffered, so long as all
the suffering lay with herself alone, when it came to involve another, she saw her course was
clear.  As Arthur stood by her, convulsed with sobs crying at one minute, "Mother, it's not
fair, I meant no harm," and the next, clenching his little fist with, "If Phillis touches me,
I'll murder Phillis," she felt that it was no longer a question of pleasantness or ease, or
even of saving her husband from pain.  It became a matter or duty--her duty to act to the best
of her conscience and ability toward the children whom Providence had sent to her.  It was
no kindness to her husband to allow these to be sacrificed, as, if she did not stand firm,
Arthur might be sacrificed for life.

So she sat still, uttering not a word except an occasional whisper of "Be quiet, Arthur," until
Dr. Grey entered the room.  Even then, she restrained herself so far as to let Miss Gascoigne
tell the story.  She trusted--as she knew she could trust--to her husband's sense of justice
and quick-sightedness, even through any amount of cloudy exaggeration.  When the examination
came to an end, and Dr. Grey, sorely perplexed and troubled, looked toward his wife questioningly,
all she said was a suggestion that both the children--for Letitia had watched the matter with
eager curiosity from a corner--should be sent out of the room.

"Yes, yes, certainly Arthur, let go your mother's hand, and run up to the nursery."

But Arthur's plaintive sobs began again.  "I can't go, papa--I daren't; Phillis will beat me!"

"Is this true, Christian?"

"I am afraid it is.  Had not the children better wait in my room?"

This order given, and the door closed, Dr. Grey sat down with very piteous countenance.  He
was such a lover of peace and quietness and now to be brought from his study into the midst
of this domestic hurricane--it was rather hard.  He looked from his wife to his sister, and
back again to his wife.  There his eyes rested and brightened a little. The contrast between
the two faces was great--one so fierce and bitter, the other sad indeed, but composed and strong.
Nature herself, who, in the long run, usually decides between false and true authority, showed
at once who possessed the latter--which of the two women was the most fitted to govern children.

"Henrietta," said Dr. Grey,  "what is it you wish me to do? if my boy has offended you, of
course he must be punished.  Leave him to Mrs. Grey; she will do what is right."

"Then I have no longer any authority in this house?"

"Authority in my wife's house my sister could hardly desire.  Influence she might always have;
and respect and affection will, I trust, never be wanting."

Dr. Grey spoke very kindly, and held out his hand, but Miss Gascoigne threw it angrily aside;
and then, breaking through even the unconscious restraint in which most women, even the most
violent, are held by the presence of a man, and especially such a man as the master, she burst
out--this poor passionate woman, cursed with that terrible pre- dominance of self which in
men is ugly enough, in women absolutely hateful--

"Never!  Keep your hypocrisies to yourself, and your wife too--the greatest hypocrite I know.
But she can not deceive me.  Maria"--and she rushed at luckless Aunt Maria, who that instant,
knitting in hand, was quietly entering the room--"come here, Maria, and be a witness to what
your brother is doing.  He is turning me out of his house--me, who, since my poor sister died,
have been like a mother to his children. He is taking them from me, and giving them over to
that woman--that bad, low, cunning woman!"

"Stop!" cried Dr. Grey.  "One word more like that, and I will turn you out of my house--ay,
this very night!"

There was a dead pause.  Even Miss Gascoigne was frightened. Christian, who had never in all
her life witnessed such a scene, wished she had done any thing--borne any thing, rather than
have given cause for it.  And yet the children!  Looking at that furious woman, she felt--
any observer would have felt--that to leave children in Miss Gascoigne's power was to ruin
them for life.  No; what must be done had better be done now than when too late.  Yet her heart
failed her at sight of poor Aunt Maria's sobs.

"Oh, dear Arnold, what is the matter? You haven't been vexing Henrietta?  But you never vex
any body, you are so good.  Dear Henrietta, are we really to go back to our own house at Avonside?
Well, I don't mind.  It is a pretty house, far more cheerful than the Lodge; and our tenants
are just leaving, and they have kept the furniture in the best of order--the nice furniture
that dear Arnold gave us, you know.  Even if he does want us to leave the Lodge, it is quite
natural.  I always said so.  And we shall only be a mile away, and can have the children to
spend long days with us, and--"

Simple Aunt Maria, in her hasty jumping at conclusions, had effected more than she thought
of--more harm and more good.

"I assure you, Maria," said Dr. Grey with a look of sudden relief, which he tried hard--good
man!--to conceal, "it never was my intention to suggest your leaving but since you have suggested
it--"

"I will go," interrupted Miss Gascoigne.  "Say not another word; we will go.  I will not stay
to be insulted here; I will return to my own house--my own poor humble cottage, where at least
I can live independent and at peace--yes, Dr. Grey, I will, however you may try to prevent me."

"I do not prevent you.  On the contrary, I consider it would be an excellent plan, and you
have my full consent to execute it whenever you choose."

This quiet taking of her at her word--this brief, determined, and masculine manner of settling
what she had no intention of doing unless driven to it through a series of feminine arguments,
contentions, and storms, was quite too much for Miss Gascoigne.

"Go back to Avonside Cottage!  Shut myself up in that poor miserable hole--"

"Oh, Henrietta!" expostulated Aunt Maria, "when it is so nicely furnished--with the pretty
little green-house that dear Arnold built for us too!"

"Don't tell me of green-houses!  I say it is only a hole.  And I to settle down in it--to exile
myself from Avonsbridge society, that Mrs. Grey may rule here, and boast that she has driven
me out of the field--me, the last living relative of your dear lost wife, to say nothing of
poor Maria, your excellent sister to whom you owe so much--"

"Oh, Henrietta!" pleaded Miss Grey once more.  "Never mind her, dear, dear Arnold."

Dr. Grey looked terribly hurt, but he and Aunt Maria exchanged one glance and one long hand-clasp.
Whatever debt there was between the brother and sister, love had long since canceled it all.

"Pacify her, Maria--you know you can.  Make her think better of all this nonsense.  My wife
and my sisters could never be rivals; it is ridiculous to suppose such a thing.  But, indeed,
I believe we should all be much better friends if you were in your own house at Avonside."

"I think so, too," whispered Aunt Maria.  "I have thought so ever so long."

"Then it is settled," replied Dr. Grey, in the mild way in which he did sometimes settle things,
and after which you might just as well attempt to move him as to move the foundations of St.
Bede's.

It was all so sudden, this total domestic revolution, which yet every body inwardly recognized
as a great relief, that for a minute or two nobody found a word more to say, until Miss Gascoigne,
who generally had both the first word and the last, broke out again.

"Yes, you have done it, and it shall never be undone, however you may live to repent it.  Dr.
Grey, I quit your house, shaking the dust off my feet: see that it does not rise up in judgment
against you.  Maria--my poor Maria--your own brother may forsake you, but I never will.  We
go away together--tomorrow."

"Not tomorrow," said Dr. Grey.  "Your tenants have only just left, and we must have the cottage
made comfortable for you.  Let me see, this is the 8th; suppose we settle that you leave on
the 20th of June.  Will that do, Maria?"

As he spoke he took her little fat hand, patted it lovingly, and then kissed her.

"You'll not be unhappy, sister?  You know it is only going back to the old ways, and to the
old country life, which you always liked much better than this."

"Much--much better. You are quite right, as you always are, dear Arnold,"

This was said in a whisper, but Miss Gascoigne caught it.

"Ah! yes, I see what you are doing--stealing from me the only heart that loves me--persuading
her to stay behind.  Very well.  Do it, Maria. Remain with your brother and your brother's
wife.  Forget me, who am nothing to any body--of no use to one creature living."

Poor woman without meaning it, she had hit upon something very near the truth.  It always is
so--always must be.  People win what they earn; those who sow the wind reap the whirlwind.
Handsome, clever, showy, and admired, as she had been in her day, probably not one living soul
did now care for Henrietta Gascoigne except foolish, faithful Aunt Maria.

And yet there must have been some good in her, something worth caring for, even to retain that
affection, weak and submissive as it may have been.  Christian's heart smote her as if she
herself had been guilty of injustice toward Miss Gascoigne when she saw Miss Grey creep up
to her old friend, the tears flowing like a mill-stream.

"No, dear, I shall not stay behind.  Arnold doesn't want me.  And I have always put up with
you somehow--I mean, you have put with me--we shall manage to do it still.  We'll live together
again, as we did for so many years, in our pretty cottage and garden that dear Arnold gave
us, and I will look after my poultry, and you shall do your visiting.  Yes, dear Henrietta,
it will be all for the best.  We shall be so independent, so happy."

Happy! It was not a word in Miss Gascoigne's dictionary.  But she looked with a certain tenderness
at the fond little woman who had loved her, borne with her, never in the smallest degree resisted
her since they were girls together.  It was a strange tie, perhaps finding its origin in something
deeper than itself--in that dead captain, whose old- fashioned miniature still lay in poor
Maria's drawer--the fierce, handsome face, proving that, had he lived, he might have been as
great a tyrant over her as his sister Henrietta.  Still, however it arose, the bond was there,
and nothing but death could ever break it between these two lonely women.

"Come, then, Maria, we shall share our last crust together. You, at least, have never wronged
me.  Come away."

Gathering her dress about her with a tragical air, and plucking it, as she passed Mrs. Grey,
as though the possible touch were pollution, Aunt Henrietta swept from the room; Aunt Maria,
after one deprecatory look behind, as if to say, "You see I can't do otherwise," slowly following.

And so it was all over--safely over--this great change, which, however longed for, had not
been contemplated as a possibility one hour before. It had arranged itself out of the most
trivial elements, as great events often do.  There could be no question that every body felt
it to be the best thing, and every body was thankful; and yet Christian watched her husband
with a little uncertainty until she heard him heave a sigh of relief.

"Yes, I am sure it was right to be done, and I am glad it is done.  Are not you, Christian?"

"Oh, so glad!  I hope it is not wicked in me, but I am so glad!"

"Why--to have me all to yourself?" said he, smiling at her energy. What has my face on these issues? I am a Catholic, Apostolic Roman, but if
tomorrow the king, our lord (She took his hand to his cap by saying this), I with a detachment
sent to Rome, I there as the Constable of Bourbon, the looting and turn on the pontiff.

- And I say that if His Holiness could send me to put one quarter of bayonet through the navel
to the Constable, you have assured that I got two.

- No.

- Why not? - Roared the chaplain getting crimson.

- Because the constable has been dead for three centuries.

- Good.

Three centuries ago that burns in hell.

- All that is fine, pater,
but the king always up, are we? and the other to shut up and obey.

-
The pope never silent, Baron!

- Well, it puts a gag.

- Would I see
porra!

Reporra!

Porra a hundred times! who made her being close Fray Diego de Areces! - Shouted the priest rising
convulsive breathing fire from his eyes.

- Sit, pater, and calm down and poured another glass, Fray Diego de
Areces is only a casserole.

The chaplain suddenly calmed down, gently poured liquor in the two cups and drained to his delight,
after which he dropped his head on his chest, eyelids him down and began to doze. Baron, radiant
with joy, I looked at him with sly eyes, taking advantage of his
temporary absence to pour another glass, 'of odd, " as he said.

Was constant feature of those sweet gin sessions which exchange the character of both. The irascible
genius, impetuous softened baron's so unlikely. Did, while it lasted the beneficent influence
of alcohol, cheerful, communicative, conciliator, no word bother him, nothing seemed sufficient
reason to be angry. In contrast, Fray Diego, which in normal state was a blessed, always jovial
and jocular, Tornabe a devil debater and fussy, suddenly acquired
humor that no one would suspect warrior under his round face placid
ajamonada Bl.

Despabilose after a few minutes, the Baron looked at him with strange
moments uttered fiercely and slurred:

- I, Baron, that you explain
to me what you mean by pot.

- Anda, salt shaker!

Now we go with that? Do you care what that means either?

- But I want ... Understand each other!

- We have already understood.

You have two quarts of gin under his belt and I two ... or something else - said by a prodigious
number of winks.

- Not that, Monsieur le Baron, not that! Let us understand once, porra!

- Here there are no lords or priests - said the noble in a fit of
good humor rising Chair .-- Here are just Uncle Francis, who am I,
and Uncle Diego, that you, are we?

... Come these five ...

As we move forward with outstretched hand took a few missteps, but
he stood firm.

- Come these five brave!

    
    The priest is softened.

They shook hands.

- Now embraced by the rightful king of Spain.

- Do not talk to me for hugs !...-- cleric shouted back plaster .-- I remember Vergara hug and
cheer! ...

- Do not worry, buddy, we already pay for it.

Ay, ay, ay! mutilates Chapel sparrow.

And he began to sing the anthem Carlist hoarsely, but suddenly interrupted:

- Hey, man Diego, sing! Let us now with tears ...

Indeed, his friend cried tears like hazelnuts that time, recalling the betrayal Vergara.

- Up, cuirassier! What you do not weigh that bebiésemos a glass for the extermination of all blacks?

Fray
Diego was declared, with a nod, a supporter in principle of this toast comforting, but did not
move from the chair.

Drank another glass, and its effect was so prodigious in the traditional
soul of the Baron, which immediately began to dance the footwork English
on the table, without leave by Fray Diego so many tears to shed.

-
Hum!

I do not like this dance extranjis - said at last getting off a jump;
- prefer raw dance.

Come, uncle Diego ...

And the strength, taking him by the hand,
lifted the chair and began to walk with him singing one of the long
and monotonous chants of the country.

Fray Diego felt rejuvenated. He remembered his time there in the village cress, when his uncle,
the priest he was grinding Areces to night clubs because they jumped
out the window to go to court the young women from neighboring villages.

-
Hey, Diego - suddenly stopping Baron said .-- Do not you think that
before going drink a drink for the soul of our ancestors?

Friar assented willingly, but the glasses lay broken on the floor and empty jars. The baron
opened a cupboard and took out new elements of spiritual life. This cup funeral inspired him
most happy idea, that of covering the head of the chaplain with his beret and adorn him spout it,
resting on a chair.

So back to the dance dresses, two figures doing really interesting.

Baron stumbled and fell.

- Rise, uncle Diego.

The monk took his hands again he had come loose and pulled hard up.

But weight nobleman bowed and rolled the two on the ground.

- Rise, uncle Diego!

- Rise, Uncle Frank!

Both were rolling by releasing barbaric laughter. Baron finally managed to stand up. The Chaplain
did the same after awhile.

But his soul, a moment illuminated by memories youth, suddenly fell again in the blood and extermination.
He turned fiercely his friend.

- Whether we realize it at once, porra! Why you called me pot recently? Huh? Huh? Why?

- I'll explain soon, man - replied the Baron calmly, - but before
you drink a glass by the congregation of all Christians, whose visible
head is the pope ... say, if you like.

The chaplain did not obstacle.

- Well, I have called dish - clucking continued - because a dish,
do you know? a pan used for the filling of cooked potatoes.

That said, the Baron fell in a spasm of joy so violent that he almost
drowned.

While Thus, the bulging eyes of his comrade looked at him with an
expression that seemed threatening they would jump from their sockets
and thrown on him at times grew as a lobster.

- And why cooked potatoes?

I have so many livers as you cheer! and have proven Orduña in action and that of Unza, and
something I have in my house six crosses.

- You?

Do you? - Said the gentleman could not quiet the laughter .-- You have never served to to the
ranch to the squadron.

The Friar's anger knew no bounds at this. She screamed, kicked, punched gave frightening on
the table. Finally, he pressed to the door from its frame began with decomposed gesture to
the apostrophe.

- That tells you because you are in your home! Leave you were to say it! Get out me!

The Baron looked at him with smiling curiosity.

- Quiet, quiet, uncle Diego.

- Get out to kill me! ... Saber, pistol, with what you want ...

- Well, man, well, we'll kill us ... but only give you pleasure ...

Was
unsteadily to the bedroom and groped, because the darkness was complete,
put hands in the rack and pulled out two large cavalry sabers.

-
Toma - stretching one chaplain said.

This took him out of the pod and began to wield.

While conducting the test, D. Francisco watched him brimming with
satisfaction.

- Well, we already - said the monk sheathing .-- In
progress.

And taking the gutter, who was on the floor, and hiding the sword
under the cloak, out the door.

The baron took his cap, put a thick coat montecristo and followed
him.

- Stop! - Said before he had taken four steps .-- Do not you
think that we take the spur?

Fray Diego grunted yes.

Again entered the room and, groping the ground, ran into the jar of
gin, which was not completely exhausted.

Came up with the glasses and pour everything he had.

Act took to the streets continued.

Thick gravel pavement was wet.

Menudísima rain was falling, so thick that calaba shortly clothing
as the strongest storm.

The night had almost closed complete.

And, according to local practices, there is still a good quarter-hour
turn the famous oil-lamps, the darkness enveloped the sodden city.

The two heroes, animated by the spirit of the war, walked resolutely down the street Well, the clergyman
in front, behind noble, both muffled to the eyes and squeezing under arm the instrument of death
that everyone wore.

Street entered the Bonfires, passed through under the walls of the fortress and took to the road
that encircles the old city wall of the population.

As the water through the filter in the shelters, cooling their meat,
they would gradually balancing your moods.

The Fray Diego tended visibly to calm, cast one by one the veils
that oppressed blacks.

But these veils the collected Baron and enveloped all them arrogant
and cruel spirit.

Both progressed to the fearless through the night and rain, presaging death.

They kept a good distance along the wall and reach the road took Sarrió
for her.

They had not gone five minutes when they heard about a whimper. Stood firm, and approaching the
railing distinguished a package; approached and saw a little girl sitting.

- What are you doing? - Baron said, grabbing her by the arm.

- Sorry! - Josefina said at the height of terror .-- For God's sake do not beat me, sir! And beat me a
lot.

Knight's hand suddenly loosened, changing tone of voice and said:

- No, my dear, no, no one will stick. How are you doing here at this hour?

- I have pasted a lot of my godmother and I ran away from home.

- Do not have parents?

- No, sir.

- Do you live in Lancia?

- Yes,
sir.

- Who is your sponsor?

- A lady.

- What's your name?

- Amalia.

-
Porra! - Fray Diego exclaimed, slapping his forehead .-- It is the
girl picked up by D. Pedro Quiñones.

- Is it true that called D.
Peter the husband of your godmother?

- Yes, sir.

- Come on, get
up, my daughter.

There are no good. Come with us.

- Oh, no, by God! I take my godmother!

- No, do not go there. You're wet, baby! - Added feeling their clothes .-- Go, go.

The two heroes had put the Sabres over the edge. When they walked into Lancia leading to the
girl in the middle, there were left forgotten, never thinking that detracts moisture and steel
rusts.

- And why hit you your godmother? - Fray Diego asked as they walked
slowly to accommodate the passage of the child.

- Because he was
playing with the pastors.

- Pastors!

... But the shepherds of Don Pedro come home at night?

- Yes, sir, sleep in cardboard box.

- Well, see, girl, what are you saying there? - Stopping the chaplain uttered.

The investigation was immediately brought to the shepherds were made of clay. Fray Diego started
up again, with his cloak guarding the fragile creature's body.

But one of the times put his hand on the side noted with surprise
that the moisture she was hot wet fingers.

Reported this observation with his antagonist, and however who had reached the first houses
in the city, put the girl in a doorway, lit Baron and recognize a match. Whole face was suffused
with blood, flowing from some deep scratches, hands covered in bruises. The two heroes looked
terrified and the same wave of anger lit her face. The Baron gave a series of curses caps. These
and his ugly face made such an impression on frightening Josefina, who fled screaming into
a corner.

Managed, not without difficulty, calm, and then dry a face with a handkerchief, Fray Diego picked
her (the Baron had tried in vain) Tapola well with his cloak and
set off to the manor of Oscos.

There he became the first priest. Baron, that the campaign had gained
some knowledge surgery, carefully washed his wounds, closed bonded
and healed bruises with some ointment effective than possessed. The
rough hands of veterans seemed Silk by touching the skin of the girl.
A woman had not healed with more finesse, with such attention and
care.

Josephine was losing the fear. So ugly that man was not bad.
He dared to ask for water. The Baron replied that it was usual in
that house, and that the best thing to come now to remove the scare
was a glass of sherry. He did bring, and after the girl had drunk,
the two champions of the legitimate king retired to a corner of the
room to deliberate.

Decided that the practical at that time was to
bring the girl home from Quiñones. The Baron was responsible for delivering
it. Before very well heat up the ears of her godmother, I would say
that was a worthless slut, a vile and evil creature, and that if he
ever dared to mistreat that poor helpless child, would go home to
cut off the ears and tie after the bow to the tail of his horse and
dragged through the city. Fray Diego was not content so cruelly, but
the Baron did not alter by the living God let this little incident
plan exemplary terrible.

Josefina struggled to persuade him to come
with them. After promising Consiguiéronlo her godmother would never
stick it and that would be very good for her thereafter. No so! How
dare touch even a hair, spoke of God! I twisted the neck like a chicken,
skinned alive the lashes with the brake of your horse. The face of
that man was so terrible to utter such threats, that she did not hesitate
compliance.

As they walked toward the mansion Quiñones, Baron did
not stop throwing insults and death threats against the wife of the
Grandee. Fray Diego tried in vain to calm him. His instincts were
being bloody thereby exacerbating that the ex-priest, fearing a disaster,
said goodbye to reach the palace gate.

The Baron rang the bell. Not
knowing the feudal custom of the house, threw no more than once. Open
soon judging commoner. The surprise of the servant was great to see
that awful man, who instilled so much respect in the city, and hastened
to apologize for not visiting more time to open. The baron asked by
Pedro Quiñones. They did pass and the servant went before the grand
staircase of stone. On reaching the main floor asked him to wait while
he announced.

A few moments later she appeared Amalia. He directed
a piercing look of hatred for the girl, The Baron was holding my hand,
and he said to it coldly and haughtily

- What you wanted?

- He came
to give this girl that I picked up on the street ... while talking
to Don Pedro or with you four words.  An honest love
from the very humblest man alive, she would have been tender over; but this, which to her,
a wife, was necessarily utter insult and wickedness, awoke in her nothing but abhorrence--the
same sort of righteous abhorrence that she would have felt--she knew she would--toward any
woman who had tried to win her husband from herself.  Win her husband?  The fancy almost made
her smile, and then filled her with a brimming sense of joy that he was-- what he was, a man
to whom the bare idea of loving any woman but his own wife was so impossible that it became
actually ludicrous.

She smiled, she even laughed, with an ever-growing sense of all he was to her and she to him,
when she heard him open his study-door and call "Christian."

She went quickly, to explain in a word or two, before they went down to dinner, her rencontre
with Sir Edwin Uniacke.  Afterward, in their long, quiet evenings, to which she so looked forward,
she would tell her husband the whole story, and give herself the comfort of feeling that now
at last he was fully acquainted with her whole outer life and inmost soul, as a husband ought
to be.

But there stood the two aunts, one stately and grim, the other silent and tearful; and it took
all Dr. Grey's winning ways to smooth matters so as to make their last meal together before
the separation any thing like a peaceful one.

He seemed so anxious for this--nervously anxious--that his wife forgot every thing in helping
him to put a cheerful face on every thing.  And when she watched him, finding a pleasant word
for every one, and patient even with Miss Gascoigne, who today seemed in her sharpest mood,
gray-haired, quaint, and bookish-looking as he was, it appeared to Christian that not a young
man living could bear a moment's comparison with Dr. Arnold Grey.

He tried his best, and she tried her best but it was rather a dull dinner, and she found no
opportunity to say, as at last she had decided to say publicly, just as a piece of news, no
more, that she had today met Sir Edwin Uniacke.  And so it befell that the first who told the
fact was Arthur, blurting out between his strawberries, "Oh, papa I want you to let me go to
a place called Lake Hall."

"Lake Hall?"

"Yes; the owner of it invited me there; he did, indeed.  He is the kindest, pleasantest gentleman
I ever met.  A 'Sir,' too.  His name is Sir Edwin Uniacke."

"My boy, where did you meet Sir Edwin Uniacke?"

So the whole story came out.  Dr. Grey listened in grave silence--even a little displeasure,
or something less like displeasure than pain.  At length, he said,

"I think you must have made some mistake, Arthur.  Your mother could never have allowed--"

"She did not say she would allow me to go.   She looked rather vexed; I don't think she liked
Sir Edwin Uniacke.  And if she is very much against my going--well, I won't go," said Arthur,
heroically.

"You are a good boy; but I think this gentleman ought to have hesitated a little before he
thus intruded himself upon my wife and my son."

"I think so, too," said Christian, the first words she had spoken.

Dr. Grey glanced at her sharply, but the most suspicious husband could have read nothing in
her face beyond what she said.

"And I think," burst in Miss Gascoigne, who had listened to it all, her large eyes growing
every minute larger and larger, "that it must be somehow a lady's own fault when a gentleman
is intrusive, I never believed--I never could have believed--after all Dr. Grey has said about
Sir Edwin, that the three figures--a lady, and gentleman, and a child, whom I saw this afternoon
sitting so comfortably together on the bench--as comfortably, I vow and declare, as if they
had been sitting there an hour, which perhaps they had--"

"Not more than two minutes," interrupted Christian, speaking very quietly, but conscious of
a wild desire to fly at Miss Gascoigne and shake her as she stood, putting forward, in her
customary way, those mangled fragments of truth which are more irritating than absolute lies.
"Indeed, it was only two minutes.  I did not choose, even if I had no other reason, that a
man of whom Dr. Grey did not approve should hold any communication with Arthur?"

"Thank you, that was right," said Dr. Greg.

"Yet you let him walk with you--I know you did, up to the very Lodge door."

"To the bridge, Miss Gascoigne."

"Well, it's all the same.  And I must confess it is most extraordinary conduct.  To refuse
a gentleman's visits--his open visits here--on the pretext that he is not good enough for your
society, and then to meet him, sit with him, walk with him in the college grounds.  What will
people say."

Christian turned like a hunted creature at bay, "I do not care--not a jot, what people say."

"I thought not.  People like you never do care.  They fly in the face of society; they--"

"Husband!" with a sort of wild appeal, the first she had ever made for protection--for at least
justice.

Dr. Grey looked up, started out of a long fit of thoughtfulness--sadness it might be, during
which he had let the conversation pass him by.

"The only thing I care for is what my husband thinks.  If he blames me--"

"For what, my dear?"

"Because, when I was walking in the college grounds, as any lady may walk, that man, Sir Edwin
Uniacke, whose acquaintance I desire as little as you do, came up and spoke to me, or rather
to Arthur.  I could not help it, could I?"

"No, my child," with a slight emphasis on the words "my child," that went to Christian's heart.
Yes, surely, if she had only had courage to tell him, in his large tenderness he could have
understood that childish folly, the dream of a day, and the long misery it had brought her.
She would tell him all the very first opportunity; however much it pained and humiliated her,
she would tell her good husband all.

"And, papa, have I been naughty too?" said Arthur?  "I am sure I did not see any thing so very
dreadful in Sir Edwin.  He came up and spoke to mother as if he knew her quite well, and then
he talked ever so much to me, and said if I would visit him he would give me a boat to row,
and a horse to ride.  And I'm sure he seemed the very kindest, pleasantest gentleman."

"So he is; and nothing shall ever make me believe he isn't." cried Miss Gascoigne, always delighted
to pull against the tide.  "And I must say, Dr. Grey, the way you and your wife set up your
opinion against that of really good society is perfect nonsense.  For my part, when I have
a house of my own once more, and can invite whomsoever I please--"

"I would nevertheless advise, so far as a brother may," interrupted Dr. Grey, very seriously,
"that you do not invite Sir Edwin Uniacke.  And now, aunts both," with that sun-shiny smile
which could disperse almost any domestic cloud, "as this conversation is not particularly interesting
to the children, suppose we end it.  When do you intend to have us all to tea at Avonside?"

Chapter 13.

    "Forgive us each his daily sins,
    If few or many, great or small;
    And those that sin against us, Lord,
    Good Lord! Forgive them all.

    "Judge us not as we others judge;
    Condemn us not as we condemn;
    They who are merciless to us,
    Be merciful to them.

    "And if the cruel storm should pass,
    And let Thy heaven of peace appear,
    Make not our right the right--or might,
    But make the right shine clear."

"Well, the least I can say of it is that it is very extraordinary!"

 "What is extraordinary?" asked Miss Grey, looking up placidly from
her knitting, which did not get on very fast now.  For Aunt Maria was
exceedingly busy and exceedingly happy.  If ever her brother or his
wife had the least qualms of conscience about her removal from the
Lodge to Avonside, they would have been dispelled by the sight of the
dear little fat woman trotting about, the picture of content, full of
housekeeping plans, and schemes for her poultry-yard, her pigeon-
house, and her green-house.  As for her garden, it was a source of
perpetual pride, wonder, and delight.  The three years which she had
spent at the Lodge--which, in her secret heart, she owned were rather
dull and trying years--were ended.

She herself, and, indeed, the whole establishment, resumed again exactly the place they had
filled in the lifetime of the first Mrs. Grey. Avonside became once more a regular aunts' house--devoted
to children, who now, at the distance of a mile and a half, thought nothing so delightful as
to spend long days there, and be petted by Aunt Maria.

The sudden revolution had succeeded--as honest revolutions usually do. when any one has the
courage to attempt them--to break through a false domestic position, and supply it with a true
one.  Even Miss Gascoigne was the happier for it; less worried in her mind, having no feeling
of domestic responsibility, and being no longer haunted by the children. The poor little souls!
she could get on well enough with them for an hour or two at Avonside, but they had been a
sore affliction to her at the Lodge.  Any woman who can not wholly set aside self is sure to
be tormented by, and be a still worse torment to, children.

No; much as she pitied herself, and condoled with Aunt Maria every hour in the day, Aunt Henrietta
was a great deal better in every way since she came to Avonside--less cross, less ill-natured;
even her perpetual mill-stream of talk flowed on without such violent outbreaks of wrath against
the whole as had embittered the atmosphere of the Lodge.  Now, though her answer was sharp,
it was not so sharp as it might have been--would certainly have been--a few weeks before.

"Maria, I don't think you ever do listen to me when I'm talking.  I am afraid all I say goes
in at one ear and out at the other," which was not impossible, perhaps not unfortunate otherwise,
since Miss Gascoigne talked pretty nearly all day long, Miss Grey's whole life might have been
spent in listening.  She replied, with a meek smile, "Oh no, dear Henrietta!"

"Then you surely would have made some observation on what I have been telling you--this very
extraordinary thing which Miss Smiles told me last night at the Lodge, while Mrs. Grey was
singing--as I forewarned you, Mrs. Grey sings every where now--and her husband lets her do
it--likes it, too--he actually told me it was a pleasure to him that his wife should make herself
agreeable to other people.  They mean to give tea-parties once a week to the undergraduates
at Saint Bede's, because she says the master ought to be like a father over them, invite them
and make his house pleasant to them.  Such a thing was never heard of in our days."

"No; but I dare say dear Arnold knows best.  And what about Miss Smiles?"

"I've told you twenty times already, Maria, how Miss Smiles said that Mrs. Brereton said--you
know Mrs. Brereton, who has so many children, and never can keep a governess long--that her
new governess, who happens to be Miss Susan Bennett, whom, you may remember, I once got for
Letitia--told her a long story about Mrs. Grey and Sir Edwin Uniacke--how he was an old acquaintance
of hers before she was married."

"Of Christian's?  She never said so.  Oh no! it can't be, or she would have said so."

"Don't be too sure of that," said Aunt Henrietta, mysteriously.

"Besides, she dislikes him.  You know, Henrietta, that when he called here last week, and she
happened to be with us, she put on her bonnet and went home immediately, without seeing him!"

"And a very rude thing, too, on her part.  Any visitors whom I choose to invite to my house--"

"But he invited himself."

"No matter, he came, and I certainly had no reason to turn him out.  I consider Dr. Grey's
objections to him perfectly ridiculous.  Why, one meets the young man every where, in the very
best society, and his manners are charming.  But that is not the question.  The question is
just this:  Was he, or was he not, an acquaintance of Mrs. Grey's before her marriage? and
if he were, why did she not say so?"

"Perhaps she did."

"Not to me; when he called at the Lodge and I introduced them, they bowed as if they were just
ordinary strangers.  Now that was a rather odd thing, and a very disrespectful thing to myself,
not to tell me they had met before, I certainly have a right to be displeased.  Don't you feel
it so,  Maria?"

Whether she did or not, Maria only answered with her usual deprecatory smile.

"There is another curious circumstance, now I recall it.  Sir Edwin showed great surprise,
which, indeed, I could scarcely wonder at, when I told him--(I forget how it happened, but
I know I was somehow obliged to tell him)--who it was your brother had married--Miss Oakley,
the organist's daughter."

"Don't you think," said Aunt Maria, with a sudden sparkle of intelligence, "it might have been
her father he was acquainted with? Sir Edwin is so very musical himself that it is not unlikely
he should seek the company of musicians.  As for Christian "--simple as she was, Aunt Maria
had not lived fifty years in the world, and twenty with Miss Gascoigne, without some small
acuteness--"I can see, of course, how very bad it would have been for poor Christian to have
any acquaintance among young gownsmen, and especially with a person like Sir Edwin Uniacke."

"He is no worse than his neighbors, and I beg you will make no remarks upon him," said Miss
Gascoigne, with dignity.  "As to Mrs. Grey--"

"Perhaps," again suggested Aunt Maria, appealingly, "perhaps it isn't true.  People do say
such untrue things.  Mrs. Brereton may have imagined it all."

"It was no imagination.  Haven't I told you that Miss Bennett gave the whole story, with full
particulars, exactly as she had learned it lately from the servant at the farm where Mr. Oakley
and his daughter once lodged and where Mr. Uniacke used to come regularly?  Not one day did
he miss during a whole month.  Now, Maria, I should be sorry to think ill of her for your brother's
sake but you must allow, when a young person in her station receives constant visits from young
gentlemen--gentlemen so much above her as Sir Edwin is--it looks very like--"

"Oh, Henrietta," cried Miss Grey, the womanly feeling within her forcing its way, even through
her placid non-resistance, "do stop! you surely don't consider what you are saying?"

"I am not in the habit of speaking without consideration, and I am, I assure you, perfectly
aware of what I am saying.  I say again, that such conduct was not creditable to Miss Oakley.
Of course, one could not expect from a person like her the same decorum that was natural to
you and me in our girlhood.  I do not believe you and William ever so much as looked at one
another before you were engaged."

A faint light, half tearful, half tender, gleamed in those poor, faded blue eyes.  "Never mind
that now Henrietta.  Consider Christian.  It will be a terrible thing if any ill-natured stories
go about concerning poor dear Christian."

"It will, and therefore I am determined, for your brother's sake, to sift the story to the
very bottom.  In fact, I think--to end all doubt--I shall put the direct question myself to
Sir Edwin Uniacke."

Speak of the--But it would not be fair to quote the familiar proverb against the young man
who appeared that instant standing at the wicket-gate.

"Well, I never knew such a coincidence," cried Miss Grey.

"Such a providence rather," cried Miss Gascoigne.  And perhaps, in her strange obliquity of
vision, or, rather, in that sad preponderance of self which darkened all her vision, like a
moral cataract in the eye of her soul, this woman did actually think Providence was leading
her toward a solemn duty in the investigating of the past history of the forlorn girl whom
Dr. Grey had taken as his wife.

"Speak of an angel and you see his wings," said she, with exceeding politeness.  "We were just
talking about you, Sir Edwin."

"Thank you; and for your charming parody on the old proverb likewise, I hope I am not the angel
of darkness anyhow."

He did not look it--this graceful, handsome young man, gifted with that peculiar sort of beauty
which you see in Goethe's face, in Byron's, indicating what may be called the Greek temperament--the
nature of the old Attic race--sensuous, not sensual; pleasure-loving, passionate, and changeable;
not intentionally vicious, but reveling in a sort of glorious enjoyment, intellectual and corporeal,
to which every thing else is sacrificed--in short, the heathen as opposed to the Christian
type of manhood--a type, the fascination of which lasts as long as the body lasts, and the
intellect; when these both fail, and there is left to the man only that something which we
call the soul, the immortal essence, one with Divinity, and satisfied with nothing less than
the divine--alas for him!

A keen observer, who had lived twenty years longer in the world than he, might, regarding him
in all his beauty and youth, feel a sentiment not unlike compassion for Edwin Uniacke.

He sat down, making himself quite at home, though this was only his second visit to Avonside
Cottage.  But Miss Gascoigne, if only from love of opposition, had made it pretty clear to
him that he was welcome there, and that she liked him.  He enjoyed being liked, and had the
easy confidence of one who is well used to it.

"Yes, I am ready to avouch, this is the prettiest little paradise within miles of Avonsbridge.
No wonder you should have plenty of visitors, I met a tribe coming here--your sister-in-law
(charming person is Mrs. Grey!) your nephews and niece, and that gipsy-looking, rather handsome
nurse, who is a little like the head of Clytie, only for her sullen, underlying mouth and projecting
chin."

"How you notice faces, Sir Edwin!"

"Of course.  I am a little bit of an artist."

"And a great piece of a musician, as I understand.  Which reminds me," added Miss Gascoigne,
eager to plunge into her mission, which, in her strange delusion, she earnestly believed was
a worthy and righteous one, in which she had embarked for the family benefit--"I wanted to
ask whether you did not know Mrs. Grey's father, the organist?  And herself too, when she was
Miss Oakley?"

"Every body knew Mr. Oakley," was the evasive answer. "He was a remarkable man--quite a genius,
with all the faults of a genius.  He drank, he ate opium, he--"

"Nay, he is dead," faintly said Aunt Maria.

"Which, you mean, is a good reason why I should speak no more about him.  I obey you, Miss Grey."

"But his daughter?  Did you say you knew his daughter?" pursued Miss Gascoigne.

"Oh yes, casually.  A charming girl she was! very pretty, though immature.  Those large, fair
women sometimes do not look their best until near thirty.  And she had a glorious voice.  She
and I used to sing duets-together continually."

He might not have thought what he was doing--it is but charity to suppose so; that he spoke
only after his usual careless and somewhat presumptuous style of speaking about all women,
but he must have been struck by the horrified expression of Miss Gascoigne's face.

"Sing duets together! a young man in your position, and a young woman in hers!  Without a mother,
too!"

"Oh, her father was generally present, if you think of propriety.  But I do assure you, Miss
Gascoigne, there was not the slightest want of propriety.  She was a very pretty girl, and
I was a young fellow, rather soft, perhaps, and so we had a--well, you might call it a trifling
flirtation.  But nothing of any consequence--nothing.  I do assure you."

"Of course it was of no consequence," said Aunt Maria, again breaking in with a desperate courage.
And still more desperate were the nods and winks with which she at last aroused even Aunt Henrietta
to a sense of the position into which the conversation was bringing them both, so that she,
too, had the good feeling to add,

"Certainly it is not of the slightest consequence.  Dr. Grey is probably aware of it all?"

"Which may be the reason I am never invited to the Lodge," laughed the young man, so pleasantly
that one would hardly have paused to consider what he laughed at or what it implied.  "By-the-by,
I hear they had such a pleasant gathering there last night--a musical evening, where every
body sang a great deal, and Mrs. Grey only once, but then, of course, divinely.  I should like
to hear her again.  But look, there are the children.  Shall I take the liberty of unfastening
for them the latch of your garden gate?"

He sprang out of the low window, and came back heading the small battalion of visitors--Phillis,
Arthur, Letitia, and Oliver.  But Mrs. Grey was not there.  She had come half way, and returned
home alone.

"Well, I must say that is very odd, considering I invited her to spend the day, and, I think,
rather disrespectful of me--to us both, Maria."

"She might have been tired after the party last night," put in Aunt Maria.

"No, she wasn't tired, for she never told me so." said Arthur.  "She told me to say--not you,
Phillis, mother always trusts me with her messages-- that she had gone back on account of papa's
wanting her, and that if he came to fetch us, she would come here with him in the evening."

"Very devoted!  'An old man's darling and a young man's slave,' runs the proverb; but Mrs.
Grey seems to reverse it.  She will soon never stir out an inch without your brother, Maria."

"And I am sure my brother never looks so happy as when she is beside him," said Aunt Maria.
"We shall quite enjoy seeing them both together to-night."

"And I only wish it had been my good fortune to join such a pleasant family party," observed
Sir Edwin Uniacke.

It was rather too broad a hint, presuming even upon Miss Gascoigne's large courtesy. At such moments completely lost consciousness. Amalia's
name in vain. Only when she put her hands on the girl uttered a cry of terror and put her
head on his chest.

Between the Concha and Mary laundress had exploded, with regard to these punishments, serious
Brawls. Mary was naturally compassionate and hurt him the martyrdom of the girl, but not knew
them all, because Amalia tried to guard against the servants, except
Concha.

If not language was loose, not to censor the bit not in the kitchen of his wife's behavior.

- Honey, this is worse than the Inquisition. Do not think we are Christians,
but between Jewish dogs.

Before both mime that corrupted, and now, Supit, try this little angel worse than a beast.
I tell thee the thing out of line! There is no heart to see such evil!

- Shut up, Tonton, meddling - jumped Concha .-- Who gives you sail
to you in this burial?

If Mrs. wants to teach this girl as fair, is going to consult you
on how you must do?

Do you know what's even raise children?

If there you have it punishes prize that this will make a working woman, honest! Someday I
will thank you.

- Yes, thanks! Since the cemetery is the will. In one month this part the girl is unknown.

- Well, will you and what you will or do you come here? Are you his mother?

Three or four times rebuked in this way, always taking advantage of their insolence and the microscopic
malice seamstress.

After all, Mary, unable to endure with patience the spectacle, took
the decision to leave.

There was a day a lady, and the Grilled excuse that it hurt asked
for the bill.

Not concealed from the real Amalia reason, it was aware of their murmuring. Concealed, however.

-
Yes, daughter, you understand that the ironing bored. You do not enjoy in good health. I'm also
below par for days.

I have altered nervous system. Fighting life with a sick and now, to finish off the party, get
out that little girl, whom she founded my hopes, so ungrateful and wicked! I do not know how
I have patience.

Mary hesitated.

- You see, ma'am ... Children are children.

Grandee's wife realized that if he continued on the subject, the laundress was going to say something
unpleasant and hastened to cut the conversation, paying your account and dismissing with affability.

Did
not prevent this that the home say in confidence, in a house where he was to serve what was going
on Quinones. The news was conveyed in confidence, also, of each other. Soon enough people were
aware of the cruelties were that the child was committed.

The Count de Onis, to escape the public's curiosity, that bothered him greatly, and even more
to get rid of Amalia, had moved, without telling it, was already near one month at the Farm. His
mother accompanied him. There had written to his ex-mistress, but All day I thought so, to inform
him of its decision. Such was the fear Valencian had come to inspire, the pen fell from his
hands every time you take for news of his marriage. And let slip the days continued hesitation,
thinking concern at the anger that she would take over, hoping, like all weak, in that some unforeseen
event commitment deliver him.

One way to break the relationship without fight, without agreement, without explanation, it
was really original, but very typical of his character. He knew nothing of the martyrdom of his
daughter. However, when she thought she felt a sudden restlessness, alterábanse his nerves,
and began to walk around the room with visible agitation. A vague and sad foreboding oppressed
his heart. Love got frantic Fernanda inspire you had forgotten some of Josefina. At certain times
rebuked himself with bitterness even thought would not get married to Fernanda happiness if
I could not see his daughter every day.

It understood that this was impossible to continue Amalia power. So dreamed of wresting: imagined
with pleasure blundering projects of abduction, away with her and
Fernanda to anywhere in the world peaceful and enjoyable.

It happened that one of these days of hesitation in the count, was in the morning at home Michelle
Quiñones, the more nervous and violent of the four sprites for the Elderly. It was in order Amalia
ask for advice about a dress she was planning for the next dance the casino. Despite their late
thirties, was still tending to male networks.

The visits at this time were rare, but as the noble family kept intimate
Retired relationship with the lady, the maid did not hesitate in passing
to the case above, where it was.

- What importunate, right?

Honey, is the time when you can catch the single - entered funny saying with the fickleness
that characterized the young shoots of Matthew.

Amalia was received warmly, but showing some surprise and concern that Michelle did not notice.
They came in right away. The issue was overcome completely wipes their spirits. Amalia took his
girlfriend to the balcony. But they had not spoken many words, when
it believed receive a weak whimper in the same room.

He turned and saw in a corner Josephine knees and tied up alongside
the toilet, in such a way that would be impossible to get up without
lifting the heavy furniture, something far beyond his strength.

Amalia was quick to explain.

- This girl is getting so bad that I clarified to tie me for being
still.

Yesterday finger bitten by a seamstress, and now just broke a mirror. No patience to suffer!

Michelle, whom he hated punishment, shut up. Quiñones's wife continued talking with affected indifference
of her dress, but in spite of how much the item should be an interested party the girl was quite
distracted and threw frequent glances at the girl.

It left out another moan. Her godmother turned a bad repressed anger.

-
Would you shut up, eh?

Will you shut up?

And looked a good time with extraordinary firmness.

He came back to tie the talk, but his voice was noticeable slight alteration. Micaela was more
and more distracted.

The outrage was going up into the throat, and had concluded to do some nasty warning to his friend
if the girl had not complained again.

- Well, it is seen that we do not have to leave in peace - said the
lady to smile .-- Efforts will to give you loose.

It was there and unleashed a long time using it, the rope was so many times around their small
body like a busy trunk. But the time to get up the girl, he could not. No doubt a few hours ago
I was in that painful position, the muscles were stagnant.

- Top stringers! - He joked, as he helped her up.

Micaela watched the scene with amazement; flashes of anger crossed his eyes.

- You did not like the posturita, eh? Well, my dear, if you do not return to it must be good and
obedient, right, Michelle?

This is not open his lips, more dusky, honeyed smile in spite of that
contracted the semblance of Valencia.

- Well - he continued, stroking
the blond girl's head - you're forgiven, but care to do evil!

Go downstairs and ask for a kiss Concha.

The girl, upon hearing these words, was densely pale, remained motionless some moments, and
finally went to the door unsteadily.

Before reaching it, Michelle, that closely followed the hearing, noted that had their eyes covered
with tears. Amalia resumed the conversation with rags.

Not three minutes had passed when they reached the office, remote
and off, shouting of the child.

Micaela quivered nodded toward the door to hear better. Amalia alzose strongly from his chair
and went to close the door. The screams ceased to be heard, but young nervous and not heard
the words of Amalia. A great uneasiness came over her; subíanle vapors in the face and the awful
thought shameless desire that evil, to call Jewish, rogue, varlet. Everything that happened in that
house is represented by blow. Jealousy first, then the news of the marriage of Louis dropping
like a bomb then the miserable revenge on the daughter, the father's abandonment. He knew the
unforgiving nature of Valencia. But what would move with insults then? Produce a serious scandal
and the toss of the house. Micaela, despite his violent temper, had a compassionate heart. What
worried her most was doing something for the unfortunate creature. And he was calm enough to hide
a little and think the best match was telling especially just the count, who will likely ignore
such dastardly revenge. Attempted to end sooner and were dismissed entirely unable to hide
his embarrassment.

When he was in the street felt the need to vent his chest. He thought of Maria Josepha who lived
nearby and who professed to foundling tender affection. He entered his house agitated trembling,
before uttering a word sank down on a couch, giving air to the tip blanket.

- Ugh! I'm drowning ... I do not know what just happened! It is an infamous, an evil that has to
burn in hell! I've always said and foolish my sisters do not want to believe me. It is perverse
that consumptive! Has the heart of a hyena.

- But what? - Asked in amazement, burning with curiosity, the buxom shrewd.

Then the daughter of Retired nervously told him, stammered with anger,
the situation they had found Joseph, the pallor of the child after
the strange invitation her godmother, who had heard the screams as
if she was giving torment.

Maria Josefa immediately joined his curse to the young. They pulled out all the evidence evil
they knew Grandee's wife and decided to give part of what was happening the count, but find
out before more details. To do this, that same afternoon, Mary began to talk to the ironer, which
for several days had left home Quiñones. At first it, fearing the consequences, expressed
reserved. Concluded however, to give rein to the tongue and refer the thousand iniquities that
Mrs. Quinones committed to the child collection. They were horrified. Thought in part to the court,
but on completely alienating the beast Valencia (which in his honor that is not worried much in such
moments), they understood that would be of little or no results. Quiñones was the most powerful
people in the population; D. Peter, head of the ruling party in the province, the authorities,
workmanship or under their influence. Everything would plug immediately and would remain as
before. The best thing was to address the count. But this was to then in the House. Furthermore,
although all or nearly all, knew the secret of the girl, not could've been warned. After some
discussion, decided to write the following letter, signed only by
María Josefa, "Mr. Conde de Onis.

My dear friends: With due Subject to inform you that the girl picked up by our friends Quiñones
lords, and therefore all we care who is the object in the house of cruel treatment. I we have
a duty to intervene to cease. You tell me what to do and me as a woman does not reach me. If
you want to know the details of the martyrdom of the child Maria the maid go a few days ago stopped
serving at home D. Pedro. Yours faithfully friend, Josefa María Hevia. "

Luis crumpled the letter in his hands clenched. All the blood rushed to his face. No realize what had
left the house and almost took the road race Lancia reaching it in minutes. That vague and awful
premonition that I felt we performed the end. Amalia retaliated fiercely. The hidden meaning of
the letter was that: they were going to him as the father of Joseph and cause of their misery. Not
knowing what course to take, went home for reflection. It was only a servant elder care. In it
he used to find Where was Mary and pass a message to him to come and see him. Do not mistake
the ironer on the subject of this appeal.

As he was able to attended the meeting, and after would make him promise not to use its name for nothing,
he realized fact the work was going on the innocent girl. Escuchábala pale, haggard, unable
to suppress the violent and frequent beatings of his heart. When he came to narrate certain heinous
and terrible details, the count began to pace the room like a caged animal, to pull each other's
hair hair, scratching his face, sending roars of anger.

Left alone, a thousand ideas, all foolish, is run over in the mind. I wanted to go home forcibly
Quinones and take her daughter, wanted to wring the neck that wretched
woman, wanted to tell all to D. Peter wanted to report the matter
to court and put in a dungeon to the infamous.

Fortunately his hits were so violent and short.

Then came the depression, crying.

He ran home and told his fiancee what happened sobbing, pleaded with her first time. The good
Fernanda joined him to tears, moved by the fate of the unfortunate creature and the pain of her
lover. Lengthy time spent discussing the terrible events and seeking ways to avert this dastardly
revenge. Fernanda managed at last to persuade it appeals to soft media. Think about getting something
by force was foolish.

The Count even confessing his fault, had any rights over the child. A scandal was useless. Go
to court, as well. No servant would dare to testify against her mistress, and things would
be worse than before. At last count it was decided to write a letter to his former lover.

"At this point just say that our Josephine, our beloved Josephine, is suffering Your hand incredible
tortures. I think it is a vile slander. I know your genius, which is alive and fiery, but noble.
I can not atribuirte such cowardice. I write only to make sure that this angelic creature
is still the charm of your life. If not, tell me and seek a means of passing my power. I guess
you aware of the way I'm going to give. No I want to say anything. It was inevitable sooner or
later. Anyway you can be sure that my remorse is sweetened by the sweet memories of the years
I have loved you. Goodbye. Write me a kind word. "

XIV

Capitulation.

Josefina is drawn. His cheeks were as pale as wax. In their eyes, smooth look and peaceful,
is constantly felt the loss of the terror around them suffering had
drawn a circle of violet.

He spoke very little, not ever laughed.

When left alone, she sat in every corner and stood motionless staring at a fixed point, or are approaching
the balcony and wrote on the glass with your finger.
Sometimes, in spite of so much pain, childlike nature claim their
rights. Saw the cat slowly approached her with the right tail, the
spine arched, requesting their weak touch with snoring. We let down
on the floor, called him, brought him to her and was beginning pasearle
hands to the back, to scratch your head and tickle your back, while
whispering in his ear words of affection, a cuddly animal Twitter
welcomed with spasms of delight. "I love you I love you. You are very
good. Is not you good? I do not spiders as before. Who do you love
most in the house? Did I rich? Who has given you a sardine yesterday?
Who do you put the saucer of milk every day? And I could always give
you what you would fish well, because I know what you like, right,
rich mine? But thou shalt not steal anything, you know that you're
stuck. No more urine in the bed of Manin. Mira you're going to kill
him said the other day in the kitchen. And take many mice to sponsor
you want and not get kicked out of home. "

The cat, ecstasy whispering
in the depths of the throat thousand yeas complacent, and rubbed against
her increasingly sticky caramel. The girl reached her back carrying
him embrace, pressing her against his chest, kissed him, and sometimes
forgotten its martyrs, shed tears of tenderness. But any rumor in
the next room made him a start up with terror in his eyes, threw the
cat away from him and expected him to come still. Almost always a
cruel punishment.

- Rogue and contaminating clothes crawling on the
floor! Wait wait!

As a result of the continuing fears that contracted
with strong experienced irregular movements his bladder and caused
involuntarily escaped him on many occasions the urine. This was thereby
placing themselves outside the irascible Concha.

Therefore she had determined to see it, and all concerning it, in the very worst light to modify
nothing, to excuse nothing.  She had made up her mind that things were to be so and so, and
so and so they must of necessity turn out.  Audi alteram partem was an idea that never occurred,
never had occurred, in all her life to Henrietta Gascoigne.  In fact, she would never have
believed there could be "another side," since she herself was not able to behold it.

Yet she had not a cruel nature, and the misery she endured during the few minutes that she
sat thinking of the blow that was about to fall on Dr. Grey and his family, heaping on the
picture every exaggerated imagination of a mind always prone to paint things in violent colors,
was enough to atone for half the wrong she had done.

She started up like a guilty creature when the door opened, and Phillis entered with a letter
in her hand.

"Beg pardon, ma'am, I thought you were Mrs. Grey."

"She is just gone up stairs--will be back directly," said Miss Gascoigne, anxious to keep up
appearances to the last available moment.  "Is that letter for her?  Shall I give it to her?"

"No, thank you, I'll give it myself; and it'll be the last that ever I will give, for it isn't
my business," added Phillis, flustered and indignant, so much so that she dropped the letter
on the floor.

By the light of the small taper there was a mutual search for it--why mutual Miss Gascoigne
best knew.  It was she who picked it up, and before she had delivered it back she had clearly
seen it all-- handwriting, seal and tinted envelope, with the initials "E. U." on the corner.

Some hidden feeling in both of them, the lady and the servant, some last remnant of pity and
charity, prevented their confiding openly in one another, even if Miss Gascoigne could have
condescended so far. But she knew as well as if Phillis had told, and Phillis likewise was
perfectly aware she knew, that the note came from Sir Edwin Uniacke.

Poor Aunt Henrietta!  She was so horrified--literally horrified, that she could bear no more.
She left no message--waited for nobody--but hurried back as fast as she could walk, through
twilight, to her own cottage at Avonside.

Chapter 14.

    "Peace on Earth, and mercy mild,
     Sing the angels, reconciled;
     Over each sad warfare done,
     Each soul-battle lost and won.

    "He that has a victory lost
     May discomfit yet a host;
     And, it often doth befall,
     He who conquers loses all."

Christian, after sitting waiting in the study for a long hour, received a message from her
husband that he would not be home that night.  He had to take a sudden journey of twenty miles
on some urgent affairs. This was not unusual.  Dr. Grey was one of those people whom all their
friends come to in any emergency, and the amount of other people's business, especially painful
business, which he was expected to transact, and did transact, out of pure benevolence, was
incalculable.

So his wife had to wait still.  She submitted as to fatality, laid her head on her pillow,
and fell at once into that dull, stupid sleep which mercifully comes to some people, and always
came to her, in heavy trouble.  She did not wake from it till late in the following morning.

A great dread, like a great joy, always lies in ambush, ready to leap upon us the instant we
open our eyes.  Had Miss Gascoigne known what a horrible monster it was, like a tiger at her
throat, which sprang upon Christian when she waked that morning, she, even she, might have
felt remorseful for the pain she had caused.  Yet perhaps she would not.  In this weary life
of ours,

    "With darkness and the death-hour rounding it,"

It is strange how many people seem actually to enjoy making other people miserable.

Christian rose and dressed; for her household ways must go on as usual; she must take her place
at the breakfast-table, and make it cheerful and pleasant, so that the children might not find
out any thing wrong with mother.  She did so, and sent them away to their morning play--happy
little souls!  Then she sat down to think for a little, all alone.

Not what to do--that was already decided; but how to do it--how to tell Dr. Grey in the least
painful way that his love had not been the first love she had received--and given; that she
had had this secret, and kept it from him, though he was her husband, for six whole months.

Oh, had she but told him before her marriage, long, long ago!  Now, he might think she only
did it out of fear, dread of public opinion, or seeking protection from the public scandal
that might overtake her, however innocent.  For was she not in the hands of an unscrupulous
man and a malicious woman?  It was hopeless to defend herself.  Why should she attempt it?
Had she not better let herself be killed--she sometimes thought she should be killed, to so
great a height of morbid dread had risen her secret agony--and die, quietly, silently, thus
escaping out of the hands of her enemies, who pursued her with this relentless hatred. The Indian thought for a long time, dismounted, made a trade frames
and asked me to hand over the horse from Joe in Agua Larga. My servant, who came ago, at the foot
of the mule that was carrying one of the girls, carry my exhausted frame. "Now, friend, fix the
rent." Was turning the straw hat, pulled and returned to put on the belt the inevitable pair
of new sandals, I spoke at length about the conditions of sorrel, which was galloping, which is rare
mountain horses, etc. Last burst: Wanted three heavy weights! Oh naive Indian, who was descended
from a handful to Spanish gold by a score of glass! I was magnanimous and gave him five, which
earned me some tips on how to accelerate the pace of sorrel.

I finally got to Chimborazo, after transposing hills and mountains. When losing a summit I still
had a higher one, he would stop and ask if it was not a toy colossal prank. Where do I go? How is
it possible that there, behind those hills giants in those peaks are lost in the clouds, inhabit
a village, there is a city, a civilized society? I just surrendered to the eternal piano went next
to me on the shoulder pain of ten Indians panting. Up, then. I do not know if any of the children
of Buenos Aires, born and educated the spectacle of the desert always open, you have happened
on his first trip in countries mountain the same phenomenon to me, that is, Sermo An effort to
persuade that in the narrow valleys, steep slopes, live a people of sedentary habits and a social
organization similar to ours. I remember traveling in Switzerland for first time (Coming from the
plains of Lombardy), I wondered how men could cling to rocks cold and sterile, so rebellious
to human labor, instead of going to sit on his royal fertile and generous land, where the spade
is lost without effort. That same night, Schiller I answered admirably in this dialogue between
Tell and his son

Walther, showing the Bannberg .-- Father, is it true that on this mountain, trees bleed when they
are hurt with the ax?

Tell - Who told you that, boy?

Walther - The pastor noted that there is a magic in the trees, and, when a man has abused his
hand out of the pit after his death.

Tell - There is magic in those trees, it is true. You see there, far away, those high mountains
white tip which rises to heaven?

Walther - are the snowy night resound like thunder and where they fall avalanches.

Tell - Yes, my son long ago that the avalanche would have buried the village of Altdorf, if the
forest is there, above us, not serve as a bulwark.

Walther, after a moment of reflection: - Father, there are districts where there are mountains?

Tell
- When it comes down from our mountains and goes all the way down
along the course the river, you reach a vast open area where no foaming
torrents, where rivers are slow and easy.

There, on all sides, the corn grows wild in great plains and the
country is like a garden.

Walther - Well, my father, why do not descend to rush into this beautiful country, rather than
live here in the torment and anxiety?

Tell - This country is good and beautiful as the sky, but those who have not cultivated crop
they have sown! [11].

And Tell your child explain what is freedom.

No need, indeed, in Colombia.

I understand now the tenacious and tough love of mountain for his country! Is there certainly
a community more close and constant between man and nature, in the Pampas dilated, solemn and monotonous,
full of force at dawn, noon stunning, sad at dusk, never intimate and communicative. The mountain
is smile and comfort, the pampa weeps with us, but he cries like a giant pain and solemn, above
our pettiness human. The mountain's shape, is color, gives the pleasure of painting, sculpture
or architecture, specifically when, the pampa soaks the soul in the
vague feeling deep music, infinite, but report!

... Also loved the plain, also in it, oh, poet, casts its lively and vigorous root the tree
of liberty! ...

Chimborazo is a point on the road on which stand two or three houses,
one of which is something by way of an inn, where, after a long speech
to the owner, you get a lunch consisting of a broth with potatoes,
potatoes and broth hard thin, followed by a piece of salted meat,
the meat into small pieces and pachyderm.

Is another privileged regions for coffee. The temperature, determined not by latitude, but by
lifting begins to vary, the transpiration stops, cool blasts begin to caress his face, and atmospheric
pressure, becomes more faint, somewhat difficult breathing to the lung compact air accustomed to the
hot.

There, I said goodbye to the family of my colleague, the British minister, who planned to spend the
night somewhat later, in Agua Larga, while I thank my sorrel, had hoped to arrive to Savannah,
advance to Facatativá and take there the carriage, which, according to my calculations, I would
be waiting on the eve.

Never would have guessed that this robust man who shook hands warmly
and I replied with gratitude, succumbed three months later, almost
in my arms, down by an icy breath that was to freeze them in their
lungs.

I'll never forget the deep and quiet desperation of a young woman, beautiful and elegant, which
had been sacrificed looking for career advancement of her husband, alone, surrounded by her
little children, in the most Far most of the world, embarking on the sad path of return, while
the body of partner I slept the sleep of death, there in the remote
high!

We had the dark soul before the corpse, thinking everyone in the country, at home so far and
the vicissitudes of this race vagabond ... Rest in the bosom friend from the local people who
mixed his tears with theirs, and according to the beautiful phrase Soffia, the same sky that
would covered his body on English soil, ground covers Colombian!

Set off, carrying with me a boy mounted, since the boy goodbye Chimba
walk, whose usefulness for the trip had been quite problematic.

The baggage would forward, and according to my calculation, should already be in Bogotá. Just
wearing a bag with my roles and values.

Water the way up Long is lovely, my sorrel nobly marching, climbing the safety of the mule, but his
walk infernal. Four o'clock in the afternoon when I arrived in Agua Larga point where some excellent
road to the savannah, passable even for carriages. As there no news found not mine, I ordered
my child squire go ahead, to wait on Apple, the first point of the savanna, while I talked some
time with distinguished gentlemen of the town who had come to greet me.

When I went traveling, I felt very cold. Long water is reputed to be the site more glacial mountains.
The height helps a lot, but above all, exposure to winds whistling coming two or three openings in the
surrounding hills. With what pleasure I threw my horse galloping along the vast road! It is
an unparalleled delight that comes undone by the passage of the mule. But one hour later,
neither shadow of my boy, it was very time must be achieved. Did the earth had swallowed? Not
suit me, because I had everything I wanted. Retrace my path, I asked everywhere, no one had
seen; really uneasy, I paused to reflect on the party to take, when an Indian I spent suggested
the likelihood that the cachifo had taken the low road, which greatly shorten the distance. Continued
quiet.

Rose, rose steadily, and again I conclude that when asked where he was interminable climb the
promised land. The nature had changed, and now my eyes stretched vast and luxuriant forests various
pines. In front, inaccessible peaks. Would also transpose? Of Suddenly, a gasp escaped me
in the chest.

As we rounded a bend, a wide flat flat, sun-drenched, my eyes dilated. I was in the Alto del Roble,
pride entrance door to the savannah of Bogotá. I looked back and saw the distance spread the
series of mountains that had been transposed to reach that height:
2700 meters was above the sea!

What quirk of nature that lay at the summit pampa? How is the most ignorant eye that this should be
in primitive times the bed of a huge lake superior! Printing is deep by contrast, in vain, the spirit
is ready, the fact surpasses all expectation.

The savannah entry presents the appearance of an immense circle bounded
by a chain circular low-lying hills.

It is a picturesque plain unattractive, and entering it is necessary
to leave the lovely view that I left behind.

At Apple, the closer the hotel to find some of my carriage, I saw
... My poor baggage abandoned under a runner!

It took me more than pleas to determine the carriers to lead them to the next village Facatativá,
which arrived late, finding in front of the hotel the clerk, who, despite his two days in advance,
had failed even the coach to get to Bogota. We spent the night in a hotel detestable, cold a tomb,
and the next day, after five hours of walking through the savanna, we enter end in the capital
of the United States of Colombia.

It was 13 January 1882, and it was just a month since we were traveling on Caracas.

From Vienna to Paris leaves in 28 hours!

Admittedly, when I was ten years old, employed in my family one day to make the two leagues of
swamps that separated Flores in Buenos Aires. Also ... begins to do while I was ten years!

Now is the time to take an overall view of this vast region of Latin
South extending from the Isthmus of Panama to the unexplored wilderness
where Amazon starts to run, called the Viceroyalty of Santa Fe, under
Spanish domination, New Granada later, and now has claimed for itself
the glorious name of Colombia, meeting, which covered the three republics
of the North, confederated under the inspiration of Bolivar separated
the day after his death.

Colombian soil ranges between 73 and 84 degrees west longitude and 12 latitude North, 5 south
latitude (Paris meridian), covering an area of ​​13,300 milliammeter square, on which lives
a population of just over three million souls.

The nation is divided politically into nine sovereign states, which are: Antioch (capital Medellín),
Bolívar (Cartagena), Boyacá (Tunja), Cauca (Popayán), Cundinamarca (Bogotá, capital Union, but
not federalized), Magdalena (Santa Marta), Panama (Panama), Santander (Socorro) Tolima (Neiva).

From
Ecuador, the Andes, divided into three main arms, determine the system Colombia's mountainous
terrain, forming three large valleys: the Magdalena, Atrato and Cauca, irrigated by three rivers
that give it its name. The weather, hot and unhealthy in lowlands, especially near streams, fresh
and healthy in the highest ...

It is not my intention to make a geographical description of Colombia, which can easily be in any treaty.

By
a coincidence that corroborates the historical laws of Vico, Montesquieu and Herder, could easily
raise the topographic map of Colombia to study the nature of children of different sections.
Here, restless, wandering, adventurous, there, sedentary rough for work, economic and persevering.
Further, shady, suspicious, gloomy; in Cauca, poets, dreamers, and vibrant, in Bogotá, religion,
scholars, decision makers, eminently social. And above all, an intimate bond that connects them
of strong character more personality that distinguishes a Colombian of a child in Venezuela or
Ecuador, which a Russian, a Persian.

What's inside of those thousands of miles? In the low part known, all that the imagination more
ambitious can ask the crust of the earth, from the most valuable tropical products to the fruits
of the temperate zones. Cauca, that territory as similar to our Chaco for its mysterious darkness,
the Cauca, which borders the northwest to the Isthmus of Panama and will confined to the deserts
of Brazil in the extreme southeast, is known only, not totally, the part that runs parallel to
the Pacific, the vast and vague territory of the South is so fertile, the rare few data brought
by passengers, resemble legends, is and will be much time unknown.

The future of Colombia is huge, but unfortunately remote.

Will require that the excess Europe's population first fill the vast American regions still uninhabited,
which attract emigration in the first place, by the analogy of the weather and transport facilities
for the current to take the course of Colombia. How many years will pass before they complete
the far north-west Argentine pampas or dilated, without the Australia and North Africa? But
if that future is remote in the sense of a final transformation, it is not about immediate progress
it will accelerate. Colombia, after his long and bloody fighting, now aspires to peace, whose
sentiment begins to take root in a Deep in the heart of town. Governments concerned and the need
to do kind of sacrifices to provide the country with a system of regular communication channels,
without national wealth which will forever unknown.

The current political organization in Colombia is extremely lacking, and this view I advance
After careful study, with details of which do not burden these pages is shared illustrated today
by many Colombians. The republican, representative, federal, is there carried to extremes. Each
state is sovereign, legal autonomy incompatible with with the development of the national idea.
While among us there is sovereign the Argentine people, the governors of the provinces are
natural agents of PEN, Congressional authority is above all, without
other limitations than those determined by the constitution, giving
citizens the constitutional complaint before the Court Supreme Court,
in Colombia, as I said, each state is sovereign, ruled by a president
and general government engaged by two delegates plenipotentiary the
Senate Amphictyonic kind of advice.

The laws of Congress can be vetoed by Most state legislatures and not enforceable until they
have been approved by them. Add that the President of the Union lasts only two years while
the presidential term in some states is much higher, think of the isolation constant of the
various sections of that vast body and tell if it is possible that develop and take root national
sentiment.

Then, the lack of a federal capital, the living symbol of the union, which radiates over the nation
whole.

Bogotá, Colombia's capital and the state of Cundinamarca, staying in their midst to local authorities
and the nation. It is the Argentines who must be remembered disadvantages and dangers of this coexistence,
they know that it is sufficient in such cases poor digestion of a governor to bring conflicts
that may call into question all what is worse, the national existence itself. Thus, in Bogotá,
Congress has been mocked, insulted, stoned by angry bar ... and secure of impunity. We among
us sad and similar memories!

I understand that the rivalry determined by the sovereign and autonomous itching all between States
of Colombia, making it necessary for long the capital Bogota, accepted and preferred precisely because
of the weakness of its actions distant. But apart from its topographical position, default rails, difficult
but possible, can save, Bogotá eligible all for, once federalized, the capital of a nation
like Colombia. Has the climate, has a tradition of conquest, illustration, intellectual brilliance,
but the children of Cauca and Boyacá are there guests. Nationally there is a national center.

I
repeat: Colombia happy if he got up his capital in the sea, the eternal vehicle of civilization,
instead of keeping the region lost in the clouds, out of touch with the world and without direct
action on their collective progress. But, while this is impossible, and will be for many years,
is that Colombians must be persuaded of the need give strength and cohesion to national sentiment,
to make that kind of league than a puff can be done died out, in a human group, compact, with an
ideal, a conception identical to patriotism. Such has been the work of Argentines in the last thirty
years, and all men who have governed, emerging from different parties, have followed the same path.
That progress, national, this obliteration of the local passion, once so lively, net is clear
and the almost complete abandonment of the name have made Confederation Argentina, to refer to our country.
Today we say Argentina, and soon shall we say as do the Chileans and Peruvians, Argentina, that
is, unity, the motherland, the people one. The federal system is
excellent for its administrative decentralization, for the facilities
which gives the local progress, trace routes in harmony with the specific
conditions of climate, the character, tradition and custom, by the
constant weight of political power, the full alternative, but understood
as in Colombia, I have to declare pregnancy that's a germ of death.  He determined to make her his wife, and then the
letters, the whole story, in which he had read her heart as clear as a book, and was afraid
of nothing, concerned himself alone.  He felt at liberty to tell her how or when he chose.
At least so he persuaded himself.

"But perhaps I, too, was a little bit of a coward, my child.  I, too, might have avoided much
misery if I had had the strength to speak out.  But we all make mistakes sometimes, as I told
you once.  The great thing is not to leave them as mistakes, not to sink under them, but to
recognize them for what they are, and try to remedy them if possible.  Even if we married too
hastily--I, because it was the only way in which I could shelter and protect my darling, and
you--well, perhaps because I over- persuaded you, still, we are happy now."

Happy?  It was a word too small--any word would be.  The only expression for such happiness
was silence.

"And what are we to do about him?"

"Him! who?"

Christian said it quite naturally for, woman-like, in that rapture of content, the whole world
dwindled down into but two beings, herself and her husband.

Dr. Grey smiled--not dissatisfied.  "I meant Sir Edwin Uniacke.  May I read his letter?"

"Certainly."

She turned her face away, blushing in bitter shame.  But there was no need.  Either "the de'il
is not so black as he's painted," or, what was more probable, that personage himself, incarnate
in man's evil nature, shrinks from intruding his worst blackness upon the white purity of a
good woman.  Probably never was an illicit or disgraceful love-letter written to any woman
for which she herself was quite blameless.

Dr. Grey perused very composedly Sir Edwin's epistle to his wife, saying at the end of it,
"Shall I read this aloud?  There is no reason why I should not."

And he read:

"My dear Christian,

"If you have forgotten me, I have not forgotten you.  A man does not generally meet with a
girl like you twice in his lifetime.  If, pressed by circumstances, I let you slip through
my fingers, it was the worse for me, and, perhaps, the better for you.  I bear no grudge against
that worthy don and most respectable old fogie, your husband!"

Christian recoiled with indignation, but Dr. Grey laughed--actually laughed in the content
of his heart, and, putting his arm round his wife's waist, made her read the remainder of the
letter with him.

"I have followed you pretty closely for some weeks.  I can not tell why, except that once I
was madly in love with you, and perhaps I am still--I hardly know.  But I am a gentleman, and
not a fool either.  And when a man sees a woman cares no more for him than she does for the
dust under her feet, why, if he keeps on caring for her, he's a fool.

"The purport of this letter is, therefore, nothing to which you can have the slightest objection,
it being merely a warning.  There is a young woman in Avonsbridge, Susan Bennett by name, who,
from an unfortunate slip of the tongue of mine, hates you, as all women do hate one another
(except one woman, whom I once had the honor of meeting every day for four weeks, which fact
may have made me a less bad fellow than I used to be, God knows--if there is a God, and if
He does know any thing).  Well, what I had to say is, beware of Susan Bennett, and beware of
another person, who thinks herself much superior to Bennett, and yet they are as like as two
peas--Miss Gascoigne.  Defend yourself; you may need it.  And as the best way to defend you,
I mean immediately to leave Avonsbridge--perhaps for personal reasons also, discretion being
the better part of valor, and you being so confoundedly like an angel still.  Good-by.  Yours
truly,"

"Edwin Uniacke"

A strange "love-letter" certainly, yet not an ill one, and one which it was better to have
received than not.  Better than any uncomfortable mystery to have had this clearing up of the
doings and intentions of that strange, brilliant, erratic spirit which had flashed across the
quiet atmosphere of Saint Bede's and then vanished away in darkness-- darkness not hopelessly
dark.  No one could believe so--at least no good Christian soul could, after reading that letter.

The husband and wife sat silent for a little, and then Dr. Grey said, "I always thought he
was not altogether bad--there was some good in him, and he may be the better, poor fellow,
all his life for having once had a month's acquaintance with Christian Oakley."

Christian pressed her husband's hand gratefully.  That little word or two carried in it a world
of healing.  But she was not able to say much; her heart was too full.

"And now what is to be done?" said Dr. Grey, meditatively.  "He must have had some motive in
writing this letter--a not unkindly motive either.  He must be aware of some strong reason
for it when he tells you to 'defend yourself.'  He forgets." added Christian's husband, tenderly,
"that now there is some body else to do it for you."

Christian burst into tears.  All her forlorn, unprotected youth, the more forlorn that in her
father's lifetime it was under a certain hollow sham of protection; the total desolation afterward,
exposed to every insult of the bitter world, or at least that bitter portion of it which is
always ready to trample down a woman if she is helpless, and to hunt her down if she is strong
enough to help herself--all this was gone by forever. She was afraid of nothing any more. 
She did not need to defend herself again.  She had been taken out of all her misery, and placed
in the safe shelter of a good man's love.  What had she done to deserve such blessedness? 
What could she do to show her recognition of the same? She could only weep, poor child! and
feel like a child, whom the Great Father has ceased to punish--forgiven, and taken back to peace.

"I think," she said, looking up from her hiding-place, "I am so happy, I should almost like
to die."

"No, no.  Not just yet, my foolish little woman," said Dr. Grey.  "We have, I trust, a long
lifetime before us.  Mine seems only just beginning."

Strange, but true.  He was forty-five and she twenty-one and yet to both this was the real
spring-time of their lives.

After a pause, during which he sat thinking rather deeply, the master rose and rang the bell.

"Barker, do you know whether Sir Edwin Uniacke is still in Avonsbridge?"

Barker had seen him not an hour ago, near the senate-house.

"Will you go to his lodgings?--let me see; can you make out this address, my dear?" and Dr.
Grey pointedly handed over the letter--the fatal letter, which had doubtless been discussed
by every servant in the house--to his wife.  "Yes, that is it. Go, Barker, present my compliments,
and say that Mrs. Grey and myself shall be happy to see Sir Edwin at the Lodge this morning."

"Very well, master," said Barker, opening his round eyes to their roundest as he disappeared
from the room.

"What shall you say to him?" asked Christian.

"The plain truth," answered Dr. Grey, smiling.  "It is the only weapon, offensive or defensive,
that an honest man need ever use."

But there was no likelihood of using it against Sir Edwin, for Barker brought word that he
was absent from his lodgings, and his return was quite indefinite.  So in some other way must
be inquired into and met this cruel gossip which had been set afloat, and doubtless was now
swimming about every where on the slow current of Avonsbridge society.

"But perhaps it may be needless, alter all," said Dr. Grey, cheerfully. "We give ourselves
a good deal of trouble by fancying our affairs are as important to the world as they are to
ourselves.  Whether or not, be content, my darling.  One and one makes two.  I think we two
can face the world."

Long after her husband had gone to his study, and Christian had returned to her routine of
household duties, one of which was teaching Arthur and Letitia--not the pleasantest of tasks--the
peace of his words remained in her heart, comforting her throughout the day.  She ceased to
trouble or perplex herself about what was to come; it seemed, indeed, as if nothing would ever
trouble her any more.  She rested in a deep dream of tranquility, so perfect that it beautified
and glorified her whole appearance.  Arthur more than once stopped in his lessons to say, in
his fondling way, in which to the clinging love of the child was added a little of the chivalrous
admiration of the boy,

"Mother, how very pretty you do look!"

"Do I?  I am so glad!"

At which answer Letitia, who was still prim and precise, though a little less so than she used
to be, looked perfectly petrified with astonishment.  And her step-mother could not possibly
explain to the child why she was "so glad."  Glad, for the only reason which makes a real woman
care to be lovely, because she loves and is beloved.

The day wore by; the days at the Lodge went swiftly enough now, even under the haunting eyes
of the pale foundress, and the grim, defunct masters, which Christian used to fancy pursued
her, and glared at her from morning till night.  Now the sad queen seemed to gaze at her with
a pensive envy, and the dark-visaged mediaeval doctors to look after her with a good-natured
smile.  They had alike become part and portions of her home--the dear home in which her life
was to pass--and she dreaded neither them nor it any more.

In the evening the family were all gathered together in their accustomed place, round Christian's
new piano in the drawing-room; for, since Miss Gascoigne's departure, she had earned out her
own pleasure in a long contested domestic feud, and persisted in using the drawing-room every
night.  She did not see why its pleasant splendors should gratify the public and not the family;
so she let Arthur and Letitia, and even Oliver, enjoy the sight of the beautiful room, and
learn to behave themselves in it accordingly even toward her lovely piano which was kept open
for a full hour every evening, for a sort of family concert.

She had taken much pains, at what personal cost keen lovers of music will understand, to teach
her little folk to sing.  It was possible, for they had all voices, but it had its difficulties,
especially when Oliver insisted on joining the concert, as he did now, tossing his curls, and
opening his rosy mouth like a great round O, but, nevertheless, looking so exceeding like a
singing cherub that Christian caught him up and kissed him with a passionate delight.

And then she proceeded gravely with the song, words and music of which she had to compose and
to arrange, as she best could, so as to suit the capacity of her performers.  And this was
what her musical genius had come to--singing and making baby-songs for little children, to
which the only chorus of applause was a faint "Bravo!" and a clapping of hands from the distant
fireside.

"Papa, we never thought you heard us.  We thought when you were deep in that big book you heard
nothing."

"Indeed? Very well" said papa, and disappeared below the surface again, until he revived to
take out his watch and observe that it was nearly time for little people to be safe asleep
in their little beds.

Papa was always unquestioningly and instantaneously obeyed, so the young trio ceased their
laughing over their funny songs, and prepared for one--a serious one--which always formed the
conclusion of the night's entertainments.

Every body knows it; most people have been taught it, the first song they were ever taught,
from their mother's lips.  Christian had learned it from her mother, and it was the first thing
she taught to these her children--the Evening Hymn--"Glory to Thee, my God, this night."

She had explained its meaning to them, and made them sing it seriously--not carelessly. Consciousness is not just a torch. The same crimes can be executed in darkness than
light. If I thought like you there is a God conscious creator of all beings, we send a "kissing
hand" praising him for having been a child so kind and lovely as my wife and thanking her for
having reserved for me particular application. Unfortunately I can not represent that God
received in his bathrobe and slippers my greeting cards. I rather think she and I are victims of logic.
Life seeks immediate pain ... You do the result. My wife was born with nails to tear. I was born
with a soft heart on purpose to be torn. It would be a contradiction she does not scratch and
I was not scratched.

- And yet you've loved this woman with all her heart!

- Ah, yes - the gentleman said, closing his eyes and passing his hand across his forehead naked
.-- The I loved you ... For a moment I was comparable to the immortals of Olympus. Happiness sang within
my soul the most beautiful song ever accompanied her divine games. The sun rose and lie just
to sear my illusions. The sea was mumbling there only for gold mirror images that crossed my mind
... No man was hunted by the species with more caution, more exquisite attention ... All the ties
that Nature tends for his mysterious plan can be avoided, until the same will to live can overcome,
I have overcome, because they desire to desire death. But this desire to perpetuate manifested in
all species, the sovereign power that pushes an individual into another of different sex,
believe me, Father, that is second to none ... What arm so shapely! What alabaster shoulders!
What so fascinating way off the gloves and shake your finger pinkie, which was very pretty!

- I know love, but I know that there are two kinds: one which is intended only sensual enjoyment
that we equate to gross, and a pure love of two souls that are completed, Two hearts coming together
to enjoy and suffer at the same time, to form one to death. This is the love that ennobles us,
the only one worthy of human beings and worthy of the name.

- Indeed, all poets believe that corny and all girls opiladas ... But you are a formal person
and can not think such nonsense. All love, tender and sublime , has its roots in the natural
instincts of the sexes: it is that individual flair. Have you ever seen a heart joining eighteen eighty
years with another to form one?


"No, dear."

"And, mother," said Arthur, sliding up to her, "don't you think, if you were to say something
yourself about it, Sir Edwin would ask me again to go and see him, and let me row on the lake
at Lake Hall."

"I don't know, my boy but I can not speak to Sir Edwin.  We must leave every thing to papa--he
always knows best."

And in that firm faith, almost as simple and unreasoning as that of the child, and which it
sometimes seemed, God had specially sent this good man to teach her--her, who had hitherto
had so little cause to trust or to reverence any body--Christian rested as completely and contentedly
as Arthur.  Happy son and happy wife, who could so rest upon father and husband.

For nearly an hour Dr. Grey and Sir Edwin remained in the study together.  What passed between
them the former never told, even to his wife, and she did not inquire.  She was quite certain
in this, as in all other matters, that "papa knew best."

When he did come in he found her sitting quietly sewing.  She looked up hastily, but saw that
he was alone, and smiled.

Dr. Grey smiled too--at least not exactly, but there was a brightness in his face such as--not
to liken it profanely--might have been seen in the one Divine face after saying to any sinner
"Go, and sin no more."

"My dearest," said Dr. Grey, sitting down beside his wife and taking her hand, "you maybe quite
content; all is well."

"I am very glad."

"We have talked over every thing, and come to a right understanding. But it is necessary to
bring our neighbors to a right understanding also, and to stop people's mouths if we can. 
To-morrow is Sunday.  I have arranged with Sir Edwin that he shall meet me in chapel, and sit
with me, in face of all the world, in the master's pew.  Do you dislike this, Christian?"

"No."

"We have likewise settled that he shall start off for a long tour in Greece and Egypt with
an old friend of mine, who will be none the worse for the companionship of such a brilliant
young fellow.  Besides, it will break off all bad associations, and give him a chance of 'turning
over a new leaf,' as people say.  Somehow I feel persuaded that he will."

"Thank God!" The region between the Bidasoa and Bayonne or the Adour, Gascony
itself was so famous in France for the bluff and cunning of its inhabitants, whose type Dumas
and Maquet have embodied in his famous D'Artagnan of Three Musketeers.
 But it could never be
half so happy as mine."

 Thus did these two, secure and content, rejoice over the "lost piece of
silver," believing, with a pertinacity that some may smile at, that it was
silver after all.

"One thing more.  He will be at least three years away; and no one knows what may happen to
him in the mean time, he says.  He would like to shake hands with you before he goes.  Have
you any objection to this?"

"None."

"Come then with me into the study."

They found Sir Edwin leaning against the mantelpiece, with his head resting on his arms.  When
he raised it, it was the same dashing, handsome head, which a painter might have painted for
an angel or an evil spirit, according as the mood seized him.  But now it was the former face,
with the mouth quivering with emotion, and something not unlike tears in the brilliant eyes.

"Sir Edwin, according to your desire, my wife has come to wish you good-by and good speed."

Christian held out her hand gently and gravely:

"I do wish it you--good speed wherever you go."

"Thank you, Mrs. Grey,  Good-by."

"Good-by."

And so they parted--these two, whose fates had so strangely met and mingled for a little while--parted
kindly, but, totally without one desire on either side that it should be otherwise.  They never
have met, probably never will meet again in this world.

Chapter 16.

Conclusion.

And what became of every body--the every body of this simple record of six months' household
history, such as might have happened in any life?  For it includes no extraordinary events,
and is the history of mere ordinary people, neither better nor worse than their neighbors,
making mistakes, suffering for them, retrieving them, and then struggling on, perhaps to err
again.  Is not this the chronicle of all existence?  For we are none of us either bad or good,
all perfect or wholly depraved, and our merits go as often unrewarded as our sins.

Whether the future career of Sir Edwin Uniacke be fair or foul, time alone can prove.  At present
the chances seem in favor of the former, especially as he has done the best thing a man of
fortune, or any man who earns an honest livelihood, can do--he has married early, and report
says, married well.  She is an earl's daughter, not beautiful, and rather poor, but gentle,
simple-minded, and good, as many a nobleman's daughter is, more so than girls of lesser degree
and greater presumption.

Except sending marriage-cards, Sir Edwin has attempted no communication with Dr. and Mrs. Grey.
Nor do they wish  it. The figure for a moment that I can forgive is a new insult is an idea that
a soul can only be as miserable as theirs.

- Forgiveness never degrades.

It is the virtue that most ennobles man - said the cleric, surprised.

D. Álvaro thrust a long look angry.

After disdainfully shrugged and said:

- Okay, let's stop that. What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately
this woman.

- I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least talk to you ... You may have to make some disclosures.

-
I am curious. You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ... For me (hear you
well I'll tell you) - while she took with clenched hand wrist - for my part, now or ever will
cross the floor with her ... You can tell them.

Fr Gil dropped his head and remained silent while the primogeniture began pacing restlessly the
room with his hands in his pockets. From time to time he drew on his face sarcastic smile and let
out through the nose a slight huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle
steam boiler.

- Since it can not be - said after a while the priest softly, - you
understand, D. Álvaro, that lady can not go to sleep outside the house
without giving fuel to poor languages, without renewing talks should
not be renewed.

Selfishness, if not for charity you must consent to his wife now sleep in this house, because I do
not think that suits you shock the population.

D. Álvaro continued its hectic rides without a word, as if he had not heard the proposition the priest. After
a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said:

- Okay. Tell him if you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ... but it needed little
dignity to accept - he said, lowering his voice and emphasizing the
syllables .-- And if you want money for the trip back, Osuna will
provide it.

- I thank you for this courtesy, but I'm very sad - he
replied smiling P. Gil .-- Any sacrifice would erase the memory of
the offense received and again welded chain their marriage.

How would this time be a man eloquent! ...

- Eloquence, Mr. toilets, has served in this world to committing large
vile; but I think it would be any higher than you propose.

- For
you are a vile what to me would be a noble and generous act, himself
an imitator of Christ.

We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ...

- Sorry
for you, father - said the firstborn, extending his hand.

- And I
for you, D. Álvaro.

Good night.

Left alone he continued to walk even a few moments, then stood before the cord the bell and
pulled hard.

Ramiro submitted soon.

- That woman is there ... You want me to
take? - Asked the old man, without waiting for orders of his master.

-
No. Lead it to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores you upload.

She smothered up all regrets in her silent heart, and took to her bosom those children which
Providence had sent her.  She devoted herself entirely to them, brought them up wisely and
well, and in their love and their father's she was wholly satisfied.

The End.

