It is true that some people seem born with the facility to speak, but it is also true that
the ability, like other abilities, is developed by practice. Most of those who speak well now,
began with embarrassment, self-consciousness, and an imperfect command of words. Friends can
be counted on to understand if at first your thoughts and feelings are not expressed as well
as they might be. They will attend more to what you are trying to say than to how you say it.
Here again the Book of Discipline gives wise counsel. "One who is timid or unaccustomed to
speak should have faith that God will strengthen him to give his message."

WHEN SHOULD WE SPEAK IN THE MEETING FOR WORSHIP? Whenever we are moved to. We may be moved
to speak near the beginning, midway, or towards the end. The important thing is not the time
but the moving. However, as Rufus Jones once pointed out, it sometimes helps if, once we are
really settled, something is said that lifts the spirit, that raises us above our worldly problems
and gives impetus to our search for the indwelling divinity.

WHAT SHOULD BE SPOKEN OF IN THE MEETING FOR WORSHIP? This question will be answered for us,
inwardly, if we are in the spirit of the meeting, if the meeting is in God's spirit. We may
speak of spiritual things. We may speak of daily affairs and events, if these are given a spiritual
interpretation. We may speak of world problems, if these are seen in the light of religion.
Anything that comes from the heart is proper and acceptable. We will not go wrong if we keep
in mind the central purpose of the meeting for worship, and are striving to fulfill this purpose.
Let your heart respond to the need of our meetings for a vital ministry. Open yourself and
accept, should it come to you, the call to an inspired ministry.

SHOULD MESSAGES COME ONE AFTER THE OTHER IN RAPID SUCCESSION? No. There should be a due interval
between them, a living silence in which the spirit works deep below the level of words. Messages
should arise from the silence and return to it. Of course there are times when one message
arises from another. Even so, there should be pauses between them during which the creative
forces may operate in unexpected ways. Restraint of speech improves both the speech and the
silence. Read what Thomas Kelly has to say of spoken words in his pamphlet, The Gathered Meeting.

    But more frequently some words are spoken. I have in mind those
    meeting hours which are not dominated by a single sermon, a single
    twenty-minute address, well-rounded out, with all the edges tucked
    in so there is nothing more to say. In some of our meetings we may
    have too many polished examples of homiletic perfection which lead
    the rest to sit back and admire but which close the question
    considered, rather than open it. Participants are converted into
    spectators; active worship on the part of all drifts into passive
    reception of external instruction. To be sure, there are gathered
    meetings, which arise about a single towering mountain peak of a
    sermon. One kindled soul may be the agent whereby the slumbering
    embers within are quickened into a living flame.

