Shall I tell how I became a poet for the dear girl's sake? 'Tis surely unnecessary after the
reader has perused the above versions of her poems. Shall I tell what wild follies I committed
in prose as well as in verse? how I used to watch under her window of icy evenings, and with
chilblainy fingers sing serenades to her on the guitar? Shall I tell how, in a sledging-party,
I had the happiness to drive her, and of the delightful privilege which is, on these occasions,
accorded to the driver?

Any reader who has spent a winter in Germany perhaps knows it. A large party of a score or
more of sledges is formed. Away they go to some pleasure-house that has been previously fixed
upon, where a ball and collation are prepared, and where each man, as his partner descends,
has the delicious privilege of saluting her. O heavens and earth! I may grow to be a thousand
years old, but I can never forget the rapture of that salute.

"The keen air has given me an appetite," said the dear angel, as we entered the supper-room;
and to say the truth, fairy as she was, she made a remarkably good meal--consuming a couple
of basins of white soup, several kinds of German sausages, some Westphalia ham, some white
puddings, an anchovy-salad made with cornichons and onions, sweets innumerable, and a considerable
quantity of old Steinwein and rum-punch afterwards. Then she got up and danced as brisk as
a fairy; in which operation I of course did not follow her, but had the honor, at the close
of the evening's amusement, once more to have her by my side in the sledge, as we swept in
the moonlight over the snow.

Kalbsbraten is a very hospitable place as far as tea-parties are concerned, but I never was
in one where dinners were so scarce. At the palace they occurred twice or thrice in a month;
but on these occasions spinsters were not invited, and I seldom had the opportunity of seeing
my Ottilia except at evening-parties.

Nor are these, if the truth must be told, very much to my taste. Dancing I have forsworn, whist
is too severe a study for me, and I do not like to play ecarte with old ladies, who are sure
to cheat you in the course of an evening's play.

But to have an occasional glance at Ottilia was enough; and many and many a napoleon did I
lose to her mamma, Madame de Schlippenschlopp, for the blest privilege of looking at her daughter.
Many is the tea-party I went to, shivering into cold clothes after dinner (which is my abomination)
in order to have one little look at the lady of my soul.

At these parties there were generally refreshments of a nature more substantial than mere tea
punch, both milk and rum, hot wine, consomme, and a peculiar and exceedingly disagreeable sandwich
made of a mixture of cold white puddings and garlic, of which I have forgotten the name, and
always detested the savor.

Gradually a conviction came upon me that Ottilia ATE A GREAT DEAL.

I do not dislike to see a woman eat comfortably. I even think that an agreeable woman ought
to be friande, and should love certain little dishes and knick-knacks. I know that though at
dinner they commonly take nothing, they have had roast-mutton with the children at two, and
laugh at their pretensions to starvation.

No! a woman who eats a grain of rice, like Amina in the "Arabian Nights," is absurd and unnatural;
but there is a modus in rebus: there is no reason why she should be a ghoul, a monster, an
ogress, a horrid gormandizeress--faugh!

It was, then, with a rage amounting almost to agony, that I found Ottilia ate too much at every
meal. She was always eating, and always eating too much. If I went there in the morning, there
was the horrid familiar odor of those oniony sandwiches; if in the afternoon, dinner had been
just removed, and I was choked by reeking reminiscences of roast-meat. Tea we have spoken of.
She gobbled up more cakes than any six people present; then came the supper and the sandwiches
again, and the egg-flip and the horrible rum-punch.

She was as thin as ever--paler if possible than ever:--but, by heavens! HER NOSE BEGAN TO GROW RED!

Mon Dieu! how I used to watch and watch it! Some days it was purple, some days had more of
the vermilion--I could take an affidavit that after a heavy night's supper it was more swollen,
more red than before.

I recollect one night when we were playing a round game (I had been looking at her nose very
eagerly and sadly for some time), she of herself brought up the conversation about eating,
and confessed that she had five meals a day.

"THAT ACCOUNTS FOR IT!" says I, flinging down the cards, and springing up and rushing like
a madman out of the room. I rushed away into the night, and wrestled with my passion. "What!
Marry," said I, "a woman who eats meat twenty-one times in a week, besides breakfast and tea?
Marry a sarcophagus, a cannibal, a butcher's shop?--Away!" I strove and strove. I drank, I
groaned, I wrestled and fought with my love--but it overcame me: one look of those eyes brought
me to her feet again. I yielded myself up like a slave; I fawned and whined for her; I thought
her nose was not so VERY red.

Things came to this pitch that I sounded his Highness's Minister to know whether he would give
me service in the Duchy; I thought of purchasing an estate there. I was given to understand
that I should get a chamberlain's key and some post of honor did I choose to remain, and I
even wrote home to my brother Tom in England, hinting a change in my condition.

At this juncture the town of Hamburg sent his Highness the Grand Duke (apropos of a commercial
union which was pending between the two States) a singular present: no less than a certain
number of barrels of oysters, which are considered extreme luxuries in Germany, especially
in the inland parts of the country, where they are almost unknown.

In honor of the oysters and the new commercial treaty (which arrived in fourgons despatched
for the purpose), his Highness announced a grand supper and ball, and invited all the quality
of all the principalities round about. It was a splendid affair: the grand saloon brilliant
with hundreds of uniforms and brilliant toilettes--not the least beautiful among them, I need
not say, was Ottilia.

At midnight the supper-rooms were thrown open and we formed into little parties of six, each
having a table, nobly served with plate, a lackey in attendance, and a gratifying ice-pail
or two of champagne to egayer the supper. It was no small cost to serve five hundred people
on silver, and the repast was certainly a princely and magnificent one.

I had, of course, arranged with Mademoiselle de Schlippenschlopp. Captains Frumpel and Fridelberger
of the Duke's Guard, Mesdames de Butterbrod and Bopp, formed our little party.

The first course, of course, consisted of THE OYSTERS. Ottilia's eyes gleamed with double brilliancy
as the lackey opened them. There were nine apiece for us--how well I recollect the number!

I never was much of an oyster-eater, nor can I relish them in naturalibus as some do, but require
a quantity of sauces, lemons, cayenne peppers, bread and butter, and so forth, to render them
palatable.

By the time I had made my preparations, Ottilia, the Captains, and the two ladies, had wellnigh
finished theirs. Indeed Ottilia had gobbled up all hers, and there were only my nine in the dish.

I took one--IT WAS BAD. The scent of it was enough,--they were all bad. Ottilia had eaten nine
bad oysters.

I put down the horrid shell. Her eyes glistened more and more; she could not take them off
the tray.

"Dear Herr George," she said, "WILL YOU GIVE ME YOUR OYSTERS?"

*****

She had them all down--before--I could say--Jack--Robinson!

I left Kalbsbraten that night, and have never been there since.

FITZ-BOODLE'S PROFESSIONS.

BEING APPEALS TO THE UNEMPLOYED YOUNGER SONS OF THE NOBILITY.

FIRST PROFESSION.

The fair and honest proposition in which I offered to communicate privately with parents and
guardians, relative to two new and lucrative professions which I had discovered, has, I find
from the publisher, elicited not one single inquiry from those personages, who I can't but
think are very little careful of their children's welfare to allow such a chance to be thrown
away. It is not for myself I speak, as my conscience proudly tells me; for though I actually
gave up Ascot in order to be in the way should any father of a family be inclined to treat
with me regarding my discoveries, yet I am grieved, not on my own account, but on theirs, and
for the wretched penny-wise policy that has held them back.

That they must feel an interest in my announcement is unquestionable. Look at the way in which
the public prints of all parties have noticed my appearance in the character of a literary
man! Putting aside my personal narrative, look at the offer I made to the nation,--a choice
of no less than two new professions! Suppose I had invented as many new kinds of butcher's
meat; does any one pretend that the world, tired as it is of the perpetual recurrence of beef,
mutton, veal, cold beef, cold veal, cold mutton, hashed ditto, would not have jumped eagerly
at the delightful intelligence that their old, stale, stupid meals were about to be varied at last?

Of course people would have come forward. I should have had deputations from Mr. Gibletts and
the fashionable butchers of this world; petitions would have poured in from Whitechapel salesmen;
the speculators panting to know the discovery; the cautious with stock in hand eager to bribe
me to silence and prevent the certain depreciation of the goods which they already possessed.
I should have dealt with them, not greedily or rapaciously, but on honest principles of fair
barter. "Gentlemen," I should have said, or rather, "Gents"--which affectionate diminutive
is, I am given to understand, at present much in use among commercial persons--"Gents, my researches,
my genius, or my good fortune, have brought me to the valuable discovery about which you are
come to treat. Will you purchase it outright, or will you give the discoverer an honest share
of the profits resulting from your speculation? My position in the world puts ME out of the
power of executing the vast plan I have formed, but 'twill be a certain fortune to him who
engages in it; and why should not I, too, participate in that fortune?"

Such would have been my manner of dealing with the world, too, with regard to my discovery
of the new professions. Does not the world want new professions? Are there not thousands of
well-educated men panting, struggling, pushing, starving, in the old ones? Grim tenants of
chambers looking out for attorneys who never come?--wretched physicians practising the stale
joke of being called out of church until people no longer think fit even to laugh or to pity?
Are there not hoary-headed midshipmen, antique ensigns growing mouldy upon fifty years' half-pay?
Nay, are there not men who would pay anything to be employed rather than remain idle? But such
is the glut of professionals, the horrible cut-throat competition among them, that there is
no chance for one in a thousand, be he ever so willing, or brave, or clever: in the great ocean
of life he makes a few strokes, and puffs, and sputters, and sinks, and the innumerable waves
overwhelm him and he is heard of no more.

Walking to my banker's t'other day--and I pledge my sacred honor this story is true--I met
a young fellow whom I had known attache to an embassy abroad, a young man of tolerable parts,
unwearied patience, with some fortune too, and, moreover, allied to a noble Whig family, whose
interest had procured him his appointment to the legation at Krahwinkel, where I knew him.
He remained for ten years a diplomatic character; he was the working-man of the legation; he
sent over the most diffuse translations of the German papers for the use of the Foreign Secretary;
he signed passports with most astonishing ardor; he exiled himself for ten long years in a
wretched German town, dancing attendance at court-balls and paying no end of money for uniforms.
And what for? At the end of the ten years--during which period of labor he never received a
single shilling from the Government which employed him (rascally spendthrift of a Government,
va!),--he was offered the paid attacheship to the court of H. M. the King of the Mosquito Islands,
and refused that appointment a week before the Whig Ministry retired. Then he knew that there
was no further chance for him, and incontinently quitted the diplomatic service for ever, and
I have no doubt will sell his uniform a bargain. The Government had HIM a bargain certainly;
nor is he by any means the first person who has been sold at that price.

Well, my worthy friend met me in the street and informed me of these facts with a smiling countenance,--which
I thought a masterpiece of diplomacy. Fortune had been belaboring and kicking him for ten whole
years, and here he was grinning in my face: could Monsieur de Talleyrand have acted better?
"I have given up diplomacy," said Protocol, quite simply and good-humoredly, "for between you
and me, my good fellow, it's a very slow profession; sure, perhaps, but slow. But though I
gained no actual pecuniary remuneration in the service, I have learned all the languages in
Europe, which will be invaluable to me in my new profession--the mercantile one--in which directly
I looked out for a post I found one."

"What! and a good pay?" said I.

"Why, no; that's absurd, you know. No young men, strangers to business, are paid much to speak
of. Besides, I don't look to a paltry clerk's pay. Some day, when thoroughly acquainted with
the business (I shall learn it in about seven years), I shall go into a good house with my
capital and become junior partner."

"And meanwhile?"

"Meanwhile I conduct the foreign correspondence of the eminent house of Jam, Ram, and Johnson;
and very heavy it is, I can tell you. From nine till six every day, except foreign post days,
and then from nine till eleven. Dirty dark court to sit in; snobs to talk to,--great change,
as you may fancy."

"And you do all this for nothing?"

"I do it to learn the business." And so saying Protocol gave me a knowing nod and went his way.

Good heavens! I thought, and is this a true story? Are there hundreds of young men in a similar
situation at the present day, giving away the best years of their youth for the sake of a mere
windy hope of something in old age, and dying before they come to the goal? In seven years
he hopes to have a business, and then to have the pleasure of risking his money? He will be
admitted into some great house as a particular favor, and three months after the house will
fail. Has it not happened to a thousand of our acquaintance? I thought I would run after him
and tell him about the new professions that I have invented.

"Oh! ay! those you wrote about in Fraser's Magazine. Egad! George, Necessity makes strange
fellows of us all. Who would ever have thought of you SPELLING, much more writing?"

"Never mind that. Will you, if I tell you of a new profession that, with a little cleverness
and instruction from me, you may bring to a most successful end--will you, I say, make me a
fair return?"

"My dear creature," replied young Protocol, "what nonsense you talk! I saw that very humbug
in the Magazine. You say you have made a great discovery--very good; you puff your discovery--very
right; you ask money for it--nothing can be more reasonable; and then you say that you intend
to make your discovery public in the next number of the Magazine. Do you think I will be such
a fool as to give you money for a thing which I can have next month for nothing? Good-by, George
my boy; the NEXT discovery you make I'll tell you how to get a better price for it." And with
this the fellow walked off, looking supremely knowing and clever.

This tale of the person I have called Protocol is not told without a purpose, you may be sure.
In the first place, it shows what are the reasons that nobody has made application to me concerning
the new professions, namely, because I have passed my word to make them known in this Magazine,
which persons may have for the purchasing, stealing, borrowing, or hiring, and, therefore,
they will never think of applying personally to me. And, secondly, his story proves also my
assertion, viz, that all professions are most cruelly crowded at present, and that men will
make the most absurd outlay and sacrifices for the smallest chance of success at some future
period. Well, then, I will be a benefactor to my race, if I cannot be to one single member
of it, whom I love better than most men. What I have discovered I will make known; there shall
be no shilly-shallying work here, no circumlocution, no bottle-conjuring business. But oh!
I wish for all our sakes that I had had an opportunity to impart the secret to one or two persons
only; for, after all, but one or two can live in the manner I would suggest. And when the discovery
is made known, I am sure ten thousand will try. The rascals! I can see their brass-plates gleaming
over scores of doors. Competition will ruin my professions, as it has all others.

It must be premised that the two professions are intended for gentlemen, and gentlemen only--men
of birth and education. No others could support the parts which they will be called upon to play.

And, likewise, it must be honestly confessed that these professions have, to a certain degree,
been exercised before. Do not cry out at this and say it is no discovery! I say it IS a discovery.
It is a discovery if I show you--a gentleman--a profession which you may exercise without derogation,
or loss of standing, with certain profit, nay, possibly with honor, and of which, until the
reading of this present page, you never thought but as of a calling beneath your rank and quite
below your reach. Sir, I do not mean to say that I create a profession. I cannot create gold;
but if, when discovered, I find the means of putting it in your pocket, do I or do I not deserve
credit?

I see you sneer contemptuously when I mention to you the word AUCTIONEER. "Is this all," you
say, "that this fellow brags and prates about? An auctioneer forsooth! he might as well have
'invented' chimney-sweeping!"

No such thing. A little boy of seven, be he ever so low of birth, can do this as well as you.
Do you suppose that little stolen Master Montague made a better sweeper than the lowest-bred
chummy that yearly commemorates his release? No, sir. And he might have been ever so much a
genius or gentleman, and not have been able to make his trade respectable.

But all such trades as can be rendered decent the aristocracy has adopted one by one. At first
they followed the profession of arms, flouting all others as unworthy, and thinking it ungentlemanlike
to know how to read or write. They did not go into the church in very early days, till the
money to be got from the church was strong enough to tempt them. It is but of later years that
they have condescended to go to the bar, and since the same time only that we see some of them
following trades. I know an English lord's son, who is, or was, a wine-merchant (he may have
been a bankrupt for what I know). As for bankers, several partners in banking-houses have four
balls to their coronets, and I have no doubt that another sort of banking, viz, that practised
by gentlemen who lend small sums of money upon deposited securities, will be one day followed
by the noble order, so that they may have four balls on their coronets and carriages, and three
in front of their shops.

Yes, the nobles come peoplewards as the people, on the other hand, rise and mingle with the
nobles. With the plebs, of course, Fitz-Boodle, in whose veins flows the blood of a thousand
kings, can have nothing to do; but, watching the progress of the world, 'tis impossible to
deny that the good old days of our race are passed away. We want money still as much as ever
we did; but we cannot go down from our castles with horse and sword and waylay fat merchants--no,
no, confounded new policemen and the assize-courts prevent that. Younger brothers cannot be
pages to noble houses, as of old they were, serving gentle dames without disgrace, handing
my lord's rose-water to wash, or holding his stirrup as he mounted for the chase. A page, forsooth!
A pretty figure would George Fitz-Boodle or any other man of fashion cut, in a jacket covered
with sugar-loafed buttons, and handing in penny-post notes on a silver tray. The plebs have
robbed us of THAT trade among others: nor, I confess, do I much grudge them their trouvaille.
Neither can we collect together a few scores of free lances, like honest Hugh Calverly in the
Black Prince's time, or brave Harry Butler of Wallenstein's dragoons, and serve this or that
prince, Peter the Cruel or Henry of Trastamare, Gustavus or the Emperor, at our leisure; or,
in default of service, fight and rob on our own gallant account, as the good gentlemen of old
did. Alas! no. In South America or Texas, perhaps, a man might have a chance that way; but
in the ancient world no man can fight except in the king's service (and a mighty bad service
that is too), and the lowest European sovereign, were it Baldomero Espartero himself, would
think nothing of seizing the best-born condottiere that ever drew sword, and shooting him down
like the vulgarest deserter.

What, then, is to be done? We must discover fresh fields of enterprise--of peaceable and commercial
enterprise in a peaceful and commercial age. I say, then, that the auctioneer's pulpit has
never yet been ascended by a scion of the aristocracy, and am prepared to prove that they might
scale it, and do so with dignity and profit.

