THE WALLET OF KAI LUNG

By Ernest Bramah

  "Ho, illustrious passers-by!" says Kai Lung as he spreads out his
  embroidered mat under the mulberry-tree. "It is indeed unlikely
  that you could condescend to stop and listen to the foolish words
  of such an insignificant and altogether deformed person as myself.
  Nevertheless, if you will but retard your elegant footsteps for a
  few moments, this exceedingly unprepossessing individual will
  endeavour to entertain you." This is a collection of Kai Lung's
  entertaining tales, told professionally in the market places as he
  travelled about; told sometimes to occupy and divert the minds of
  his enemies when they were intent on torturing him.

CHAPTER I. THE TRANSMUTATION OF LING

I: INTRODUCTION

The sun had dipped behind the western mountains before Kai Lung, with twenty li or more still
between him and the city of Knei Yang, entered the camphor-laurel forest which stretched almost
to his destination. No person of consequence ever made the journey unattended; but Kai Lung
professed to have no fear, remarking with extempore wisdom, when warned at the previous village,
that a worthless garment covered one with better protection than that afforded by an army of
bowmen. Nevertheless, when within the gloomy aisles, Kai Lung more than once wished himself
back at the village, or safely behind the mud walls of Knei Yang; and, making many vows concerning
the amount of prayer-paper which he would assuredly burn when he was actually through the gates,
he stepped out more quickly, until suddenly, at a turn in the glade, he stopped altogether,
while the watchful expression into which he had unguardedly dropped at once changed into a
mask of impassiveness and extreme unconcern. From behind the next tree projected a long straight
rod, not unlike a slender bamboo at a distance, but, to Kai Lung's all-seeing eye, in reality
the barrel of a matchlock, which would come into line with his breast if he took another step.
Being a prudent man, more accustomed to guile and subservience to destiny than to force, he
therefore waited, spreading out his hands in proof of his peaceful acquiescence, and smiling
cheerfully until it should please the owner of the weapon to step forth. This the unseen did
a moment later, still keeping his gun in an easy and convenient attitude, revealing a stout
body and a scarred face, which in conjunction made it plain to Kai Lung that he was in the
power of Lin Yi, a noted brigand of whom he had heard much in the villages.

"O illustrious person," said Kai Lung very earnestly, "this is evidently an unfortunate mistake.
Doubtless you were expecting some exalted Mandarin to come and render you homage, and were
preparing to overwhelm him with gratified confusion by escorting him yourself to your well-appointed
abode. Indeed, I passed such a one on the road, very richly apparelled, who inquired of me
the way to the mansion of the dignified and upright Lin Yi. By this time he is perhaps two
or three li towards the east."

"However distinguished a Mandarin may be, it is fitting that I should first attend to one whose
manners and accomplishments betray him to be of the Royal House," replied Lin Yi, with extreme
affability. "Precede me, therefore, to my mean and uninviting hovel, while I gain more honour
than I can reasonably bear by following closely in your elegant footsteps, and guarding your
Imperial person with this inadequate but heavily-loaded weapon."

Seeing no chance of immediate escape, Kai Lung led the way, instructed by the brigand, along
a very difficult and bewildering path, until they reached a cave hidden among the crags. Here
Lin Yi called out some words in the Miaotze tongue, whereupon a follower appeared, and opened
a gate in the stockade of prickly mimosa which guarded the mouth of the den. Within the enclosure
a fire burned, and food was being prepared. At a word from the chief, the unfortunate Kai Lung
found his hands seized and tied behind his back, while a second later a rough hemp rope was
fixed round his neck, and the other end tied to an overhanging tree.

Lin Yi smiled pleasantly and critically upon these preparations, and when they were complete
dismissed his follower.

"Now we can converse at our ease and without restraint," he remarked to Kai Lung. "It will
be a distinguished privilege for a person occupying the important public position which you
undoubtedly do; for myself, my instincts are so degraded and low-minded that nothing gives
me more gratification than to dispense with ceremony."

To this Kai Lung made no reply, chiefly because at that moment the wind swayed the tree, and
compelled him to stand on his toes in order to escape suffocation.

"It would be useless to try to conceal from a person of your inspired intelligence that I am
indeed Lin Yi," continued the robber. "It is a dignified position to occupy, and one for which
I am quite incompetent. In the sixth month of the third year ago, it chanced that this unworthy
person, at that time engaged in commercial affairs at Knei Yang, became inextricably immersed
in the insidious delights of quail-fighting. Having been entrusted with a large number of taels
with which to purchase elephants' teeth, it suddenly occurred to him that if he doubled the
number of taels by staking them upon an exceedingly powerful and agile quail, he would be able
to purchase twice the number of teeth, and so benefit his patron to a large extent. This matter
was clearly forced upon his notice by a dream, in which he perceived one whom he then understood
to be the benevolent spirit of an ancestor in the act of stroking a particular quail, upon
whose chances he accordingly placed all he possessed. Doubtless evil spirits had been employed
in the matter; for, to this person's great astonishment, the quail in question failed in a
very discreditable manner at the encounter. In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there. And the
seat boxes and also left many people. A few minutes were not just in the theater more than
women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene.

His mother and sister while looking at her with smiling face.

- Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA"

PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront.

Front, surrounded by six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends
went Don Rosendo, silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of
his companions, who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue.

- Don
Domingo is lucky, comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring
to the master the Bella-Paula.

- What do you know if it now?

It may be funded from the afternoon - said another.

- Where?

- Where to be, sucker? in the shell - said the other raging.

- If
you had been would, Uncle Michael.

- How you had to see, fool?

... Have you been in case in the rock Corvera?

- The flag of the
Bella-Paula is above the rock, Uncle Michael.

- What flag or how
bad lightning split you!

- What brings cargo, Don Rosendo? - He asked
the owner one of his companions.

- Four million pounds.

- Scotland?

-
No, all of Norway.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

Don Rosendo not answer. After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying

- Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the
Bella-Paula.

- I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack
and going to penetrate again in the village.

They arrived at the pier. The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea. They left
the old and tiny dock and headed to the tip of the newly built Pawn progressed well over the
sea. It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored. Just be warned the dense network of your
rig. The helmets appeared as a mass Black report.

The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until
it fell upon him. All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts to warn the darkness
of the ship. The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally bleached in the dark.

-
Where is it? - Asked several of the theater audience pulling eyes to see something.

- There.

- Where?

- Do not you see here, left, a green light?

... Go on my hand.

- Ah, yes, I see!

Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas. This was
a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the neck
like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this way,
because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the sea ports,
particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves, the maritime
element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing it,
adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ​​led to the little green
light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

- Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

- An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face .-- I have seen the boat
from the balcony shortly after sunset.

- I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better
view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don Melchor with strong
intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I believe, Don Melchor.

-
A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

- I believe, I believe.

-
And if you ask me a little - uttered more loudly still, - I tell the
ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

- Arius, lowered a bit,
Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep
crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack. Esforzóse
to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length
said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered
into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.

In Sarrió was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served
in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but
at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism. When any ship commander remembered of
our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as
prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with
sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip. Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor
could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near
it, which often changed site. They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when
it was necessary. As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was
too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood,
because he began to swear under his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they
had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft, was highlighted finally
with pure dark background. The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what was
happening on board. On the bridge there were two packages, Captain and the practical. In a bow,
the pilot.

- What about the scandal? - Don Melchor shouted again.

The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey his voice fell. The boat continued drawing closer with increasing
pause. The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick limp and faint like a
prom dress used. And those were quickly lowered gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly
desperate towed by two boats. The figures rose rhythmically rowers
on the benches.

And the voice patterns shouting: - Hala ahead! Pull hard! - Brilliantly broke the silence of the
night.

But the Yanks were so weak in relation to the mass, the ship hardly
moved.

When After a quarter of an hour got about thirty fathoms near the
tip of the Pawn took off one end, one of the boats that brought the
levee to help turn the corvette.

- Captain, Captain!

"- Shouted a loud voice from the group.

- What? - Answered the ship.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

- Yes.

- Eye For the Master of the Caves ... The others drown.

The joke caused great uproar in the crowd.

Silence reigned. The corvette started in turn, supported on the ground
after that creaked with stress.

People in the dock began talking to the board.

But it showed silent, taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the
questions they were going.

Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.

The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed
a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side
to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts
of disdain for the crowd.

- Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like
eating a casserole of cod, right?

- Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider
Llandones Winery.

- It was hot in Norway?

- There you would like
to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle.

The sailors greeted the sentence with laughter.

- Long earth - yelled the pilot from the bridge.

- Hala aboard! -
Replied the sailor who had the lee releasing the whip.

The cable fell the sea and began to rise quickly through the ship's
side.

This was the shelter of the pier, but the tide was not enough to rob
the old spring.

The captain gave a voice to the pilot.

- Fund!

The pilot told sailors at his side:

- Arria!

The anchor fell into the sea with a loud noise of chains.

The boat started to turn on it.

- Are you going to tie you to the ground, Domingo? - Asked Don Melchor.

-
Yes, sir - said the captain.

- No need; amárrate in two.

Within an hour you enmendarte.

- Both one and the other cost me - whispered the captain, shrugging
his shoulders, and then said aloud:

- Check the manual!

Another crashed into the sea anchor with the same noise.

- How do you go to you, man? "- Said a sweet voice and manly from aboard.

- Hello, Gonzalito. "You're good, my son?

- Ideally, I'm going there right now.

And they came down with great agility for a cable to the boat.

-
We will wait - Rosendo said getting to walk.

But the hand of M. de las Cuevas and grabbed her by the arm tongs.

- Where are you going, man?

- What is that? - Asked the frightened owner .-- Ah, true!

I remember we were in the second wall! ... The darkness ... So much time here ... Dizziness to
be with the view Fixed ... on the boat ... My God! What would become of me if you do not hand
me down?

- Well then, you would have broken my brains against the stones below.

- Jesus! - Rosendo said getting awfully pale. His forehead covered in a cold sweat and his legs quaked.

- Do not be afraid by what has already happened, dude.

Let's go down to receive Gonzalito.

Fell in effect at the dock, where he had to leap a tall, blond, handsome
appearance, wearing a long overcoat that almost reached his feet.

-
Uncle!

- Gonzalo!

They moved closer, until they were embracing the two giants. Rosendo also greeted warmly to the young,
but was so preoccupied with the danger he had run its existence,
which instantly turned to be dark and gloomy.

She could hardly answer the questions that the foreman made him,
asking for instructions on behalf of the master.

They stood up then to the house of Don Melchor, located at the top of the town lording an immense
extent of sea. Along the way, let his uncle Gonzalo was ahead and slightly shortened a few
questions to Don Rosendo about your family.

- How is Dona Paula? Have you gone the governing of the eye?

What about Paul? Are you still with the same hobby horses? What Venturita? A woman and be done,
right? ... (Pause.) Cecilia is good? - ended questions quickly.

To all their questions answered in monosyllables Belinchón lord.

-
You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that a little kill me
now?

- What!

Neatly told mishap spring.

Finished the story, fell into a deep consternation.

- I suppose
that the family will already be in bed?

"- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough (at least in concept) the danger of the merchant.

-
No, they are in the theater ... No one knows where available; do you, dear?

- Hello! Are there company?

- Yes, from a few days ago. Do you think I would have killed, Gonzalo?

- Phs ... maybe you have broken a leg, or both ... or rib.

- Less bad! - Said Mr Belinchón sighing.

In this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a certain street, don Rosendo
farewell to the uncle and nephew.

It gave him the hand with obvious sadness.

- I'm going to the theater to find the family.

Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo.

- See you tomorrow ... Regards.

Mr. de las Cuevas and his nephew were paired walking slowly around the house the first. Then
fell on the traveler a flurry of questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the trip
by sea. "What wind? close-hauled always right? ... Did not you ever fallen? The boat cabecearía
not much, is it loaded ... What flows? Marearíais not provided with all the material, eh? Do you
have to reefing Liverpool exit? I know, I know the cloth!

Gonzalo replied to questions with distraction, which, moreover, hardly understood. He was downcast
and gloomy. Finally watching his uncle, stood firm and said:

- What is it, Gonzalito? You seem sad.

- Me? Ca! No, sir.

- I swear it is.

Followed another in silence, and Don Melchor, slapping his forehead,
exclaimed:

- I know what you got!

- What?

- Poor land.

I passed the same thing. When jumping on the ground after a trip I went an uneasiness, a sadness,
a desire so great return on board! It lasted two or three days until I became accustomed. Anyway,
I had desire to reach port, but once there, she missed life on board. I do not know what the
sea is that attracts you? ... That pure air! ... That movement! ...
That freedom! ... A that make you feel like the boat, eh? - Ended
by saying with a grin who credited his extreme insight.

- Damn ...
From what I have won, man, I'll tell you in confidence ... is to see
my girlfriend.

Don Melchor was amazed.

- Really?

- What you hear.

She
thought for a moment, Mr. de las Cuevas, and he said:

- Well, if
you want to go to the theater to greet ... Meanwhile, I'm going to
see how Amendment Domingo.

- What has to be amended? It is a wonderful
person - said the young man smiling.

The guy, without realizing the
irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you went ... I
am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said Gonzalo, who
was already far .-- It may not have dinner. 

And without taking race,
but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved the streets,
lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble in that
hour you inglesote diputaría by the many who come to Sarrió sometimes
sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize or mount any
industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks of the
Spanish race, even we are in one of the northern provinces. Then,
that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic form, clearly denounced
abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the illusion,
because it was white and smooth and decorated with long beard, blue
eyes, hazel or rather, as those who are almost except in the northern
breeds. Seize the short time remaining before us you get to the theater
to provide the reader with some biographical information about this
young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came to be giants
and marine, from time immemorial. Marino had been his father, his
grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their children.
Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years old owner
of a not inconsiderable fortune, managed by his uncle and guardian,
Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father left him to die. Well
like the old sailor who your ward continue the uninterrupted tradition
of the lineage of the Caves in the race. To hobby or tip you wake
to the Navy, bought a beautiful sloop where both walked out in the
evenings or fishing.

But all the good knight purposes crashed into
the ground hobbies of his nephew. From the sea did not like him more
than fish, but seasoned and steaming and in the middle of the table.
Still compromised, however, with a light snack stew there somewhere
bend of the coast, sitting on a rock where Manase fresh drinking water.


"I am overwhelmed that I should be the cause of such an engaging display of polished agitation,"
said Ling, as the Mandarin paused. "If it would make your own stomach less heavy, this person
will willingly follow your estimable example, either with or without knowing the reason."

"The matter is altogether on your account, O most unobtrusive young man," replied the Mandarin,
when a voice without passion was restored to him. "It tears me internally with hooks to reflect
that you, whose refined ancestors I might reasonably have known had I passed my youth in another
Province, should be victim to the cupidity of the ones in authority at Peking. A very short
time before you arrived there came a messenger in haste from those persons, clearly indicating
that a legal toll of sixteen taels was to be made on each printed paper setting forth the time
and manner of the examinations, although, as you may see, the paper is undoubtedly marked,
'Persons are given notice that they are defrauded of any sum which they may be induced to exchange
for this matter.' Furthermore, there is a legal toll of nine taels on all persons who have
previously been examined--"

"I am happily escaped from that," exclaimed Ling with some satisfaction as the Mandarin paused.

"--and twelve taels on all who present themselves for the first time. This is to be delivered
over when the paper is purchased, so that you, by reason of this unworthy proceeding at Peking,
are required to forward to that place, through this person, no less than thirty-two taels."

"It is a circumstance of considerable regret," replied Ling; "for had I only reached Canton
a day earlier, I should, it appears, have avoided this evil."

"Undoubtedly it would have been so," replied the Mandarin, who had become engrossed in exalted
meditation. "However," he continued a moment later, as he bowed to Ling with an accomplished
smile, "it would certainly be a more pleasant thought for a person of your refined intelligence
that had you delayed until to-morrow the insatiable persons at Peking might be demanding twice
the amount."

Pondering the deep wisdom of this remark, Ling took his departure; but in spite of the most
assiduous watchfulness he was unable to discern any of the three obliging persons to whose
efforts his success had been due.

III

It was very late when Ling again reached the small room which he had selected as soon as he
reached Canton, but without waiting for food or sleep he made himself fully acquainted with
the times of the forthcoming examinations and the details of the circumstances connected with
them. With much satisfaction he found that he had still a week in which to revive his intellect
on the most difficult subjects. Having become relieved on these points, Ling retired for a
few hours' sleep, but rose again very early, and gave the whole day with great steadfastness
to contemplation of the sacred classics Y-King, with the exception of a short period spent
in purchasing ink, brushes and writing-leaves. The following day, having become mentally depressed
through witnessing unaccountable hordes of candidates thronging the streets of Canton, Ling
put aside his books, and passed the time in visiting all the most celebrated tombs in the neighbourhood
of the city. Lightened in mind by this charitable and agreeable occupation, he returned to
his studies with a fixed resolution, nor did he again falter in his purpose. On the evening
of the examination, when he was sitting alone, reading by the aid of a single light, as his
custom was, a person arrived to see him, at the same time manifesting a considerable appearance
of secrecy and reserve. Inwardly sighing at the interruption, Ling nevertheless received him
with distinguished consideration and respect, setting tea before him, and performing towards
it many honourable actions with his own hands. Not until some hours had sped in conversation
relating to the health of the Emperor, the unexpected appearance of a fiery dragon outside
the city, and the insupportable price of opium, did the visitor allude to the object of his
presence.

"It has been observed," he remarked, "that the accomplished Ling, who aspires to a satisfactory
rank at the examinations, has never before made the attempt. Doubtless in this case a preternatural
wisdom will avail much, and its fortunate possessor will not go unrewarded. Yet it is as precious
stones among ashes for one to triumph in such circumstances."

"The fact is known to this person," replied Ling sadly, "and the thought of the years he may
have to wait before he shall have passed even the first degree weighs down his soul with bitterness
from time to time."

"It is no infrequent thing for men of accomplished perseverance, but merely ordinary intellects,
to grow venerable within the four walls of the examination cell," continued the other. "Some,
again, become afflicted with various malignant evils, while not a few, chiefly those who are
presenting themselves for the first time, are so overcome on perceiving the examination paper,
and understanding the inadequate nature of their own accomplishments, that they become an easy
prey to the malicious spirits which are ever on the watch in those places; and, after covering
their leaves with unpresentable remarks and drawings of men and women of distinguished rank,
have at length to be forcibly carried away by the attendants and secured with heavy chains."

"Such things undoubtedly exist," agreed Ling; "yet by a due regard paid to spirits, both good
and bad, a proper esteem for one's ancestors, and a sufficiency of charms about the head and
body, it is possible to be closeted with all manner of demons and yet to suffer no evil."

"It is undoubtedly possible to do so, according to the Immortal Principles," admitted the stranger;
"but it is not an undertaking in which a refined person would take intelligent pleasure; as
the proverb says, 'He is a wise and enlightened suppliant who seeks to discover an honourable
Mandarin, but he is a fool who cries out, "I have found one."' However, it is obvious that
the reason of my visit is understood, and that your distinguished confidence in yourself is
merely a graceful endeavour to obtain my services for a less amount of taels than I should
otherwise have demanded. For half the usual sum, therefore, this person will take your place
in the examination cell, and enable your versatile name to appear in the winning lists, while
you pass your moments in irreproachable pleasures elsewhere."

Such a course had never presented itself to Ling. As the person who narrates this story has
already marked, he had passed his life beyond the influence of the ways and manners of towns,
and at the same time he had naturally been endowed with an unobtrusive highmindedness. It appeared
to him, in consequence, that by accepting this engaging offer he would be placing those who
were competing with him at a disadvantage. This person clearly sees that it is a difficult
matter for him to explain how this could be, as Ling would undoubtedly reward the services
of the one who took his place, nor would the number of the competitors be in any way increased;
yet in such a way the thing took shape before his eyes. Knowing, however, that few persons
would be able to understand this action, and being desirous of not injuring the estimable emotions
of the obliging person who had come to him, Ling made a number of polished excuses in declining,
hiding the true reason within himself. In this way he earned the powerful malignity of the
person in question, who would not depart until he had effected a number of very disagreeable
prophecies connected with unpropitious omens and internal torments, all of which undoubtedly
had a great influence on Ling's life beyond that time.

Each day of the examination found Ling alternately elated or depressed, according to the length
and style of the essay which he had written while enclosed in his solitary examination cell.
The trials each lasted a complete day, and long before the fifteen days which composed the
full examination were passed, Ling found himself half regretting that he had not accepted his
visitor's offer, or even reviling the day on which he had abandoned the hereditary calling
of his ancestors. I think not, but if anyone doubted this indeed,
can express their doubts, which practically may be met with enumeration of cases in which I
myself have been a consultant, not a single province, but several.

There are happier and brief civil litigation, although the parties as directed by lawyers,
and well supplied with their motions (many I have done), to seek to activate, and countering
musings of litigating in bad faith, do not get it, and the reason is because they know that
ask the judge to advise and stopped the business, and cars adviser to Manila when has occasion:
then are endless litigation in the first instance, because they come and go Manila to the province
several times, and many of them to issue a not, that knew very well it promoted what would happen
so, but in the meantime annoy his hand, and if in possession of the thing Litiji, enjoys it and enjoy,
and which has blessed: incalculable damages that are caused, as well as being so palpable that the
delay and large extravagance for those who demand justice, and the facility to hinder the
who want to retain the alien, because it will promote the natural obstacles, as said, and those
derived from the mayors and correjidores lay, these could certainly disappear if these destinations
are served by lawyers, and as regular as it sounds, and many would stop worse, as indicated.

§. IV.

OF THE MAYOR AND OTHER ITEMS CONSIDERED CORREJIDORES OUTSIDE THE BRANCH OF JUSTICE.

Hitherto only mentioned these employees as dependents of the judiciary,
it is necessary also considered as heads of finance in the provinces,
and say some things about it, monstrosities that even though they
appear, are only realities, because here it is referring only things
as they are, without exaggeration, or other defect or defect.

Correjidores the mayors and the Philippines, in addition to the judicial functions meet civil
government and defense of the people, that is a mockery of our political leaders and commanders
generals, and collection and administration of the tax paid by Indians,
the Spendius of bulls and stamped paper, or are the employees of the
treasury function, which is to say, raise, managed and distributed,
and over whose fault will talk to the finance deal.

For our purposes in what is now dealing with, suffice it to say that the provisions in municipal
and Fixed with three counts that embrace these jobs of justice, and civil government finance,
will only be made to merchants, because those positions do not expect other remuneration,
promotion, award or reward that the benefits he gets from his administration and trade, and
consequently their own interests and increasing their wealth of deals
only, and need the right away and conscientious performance of their
obligations principals.

Enjoy strong twenty-five dollars a month when provided by the governor of Manila, Real and fifty
being appointed [10], and pay the Treasury a modest remuneration for pardon, as there is called,
you can trade, that is, licensed to deal trade a judge, a political
boss and a mayor, as such may be called the mayors correjidores in
the Philippines and the responsibilities of their jobs.

From the moment they are appointed mayors or correjidores, buy your boat domestic trade or cabotage,
and some even to the exterior, which bear effect of early exit in the provinces to which they
are intended: certainly involved in facilitating Spendius and collect their products from the people
who govern, to provide employment his ship, and drive shipments to Manila, and this, as mentioned,
is their main attention and his first care. Funds for the asset jiro and engage in trade after
taking office, should say the meet in Manila to a conventional interest for the rest of his team
and exit, then paid to those who collected outside the public treasury,
and with the same who follow his trade as long as they remain in their
posts.

A system Fixed municipalities and produced as monstrous and irregular, however, in its inception
some benefits to the Islands, because in the midst of the great fault is on them of capitalists,
many agricultural products and crafts of the provinces had not been encouraged, and would not
settle even if the mayor had not speculated on them to trade. Also it must be noted that there
are those in remote provinces and low useful for trade generals, just had other means of communication
that ships the mayor, but widespread and the coasting trade, is of necessity destroy a whole
in the provinces Islands absurd and damaging the system (which is already a lot) of correjidores
mayors and businessmen, and vary, as will, because only educated in lejislacion, on top of good
governance, principles of justice, and in a good education and care, are those who can manage
well and speedy justice in their districts; devoted to the statistics of some countries, which
after three centuries that we have, are slightly less than unknowns; promote means of regulating
the populations and beautiful; be useful plans and promoting reform in agriculture, industry
and navigation, and seek peace and tranquility of the islands for self-preservation and prosperity,
most solid media and stable than hitherto known, as the lights and illustration of those provinces
so demand it, and justice dictates.

§. V.

REFORMS IN THE FIELD.

It is therefore necessary so that considerable variations are supported, such as the following, ,
or other similar rules to them, much to their branch reform of both interest and importance, and
establish a solid basis for conservation and promotion of wealth as beautiful Island and public
safety, obrándose with all the wisdom, maturity and circumspection
that demands delicate case, and considering the reforms according
to circumstances, beginning at once to provide the courts of those
provinces where scholars of the qualities indicated, with the others
expresses the following paragraphs, and others deemed conducive.

1st That the superior court or regional court, which as said, is composed of a regent, five
ministers and two prosecutors, is divided into two rooms, and turn to open business, and only
the increase of subordinates is adopted one of the most important measures for guarantee and secure
the property and individual freedom according to constitutional law, which in all instances be
different want and order judges who fail [11], though more profitable was to provide that audience
with two rooms of four ministers in each, the regent, and two prosecutors
for reasons well within reach of everyone and be the audience of over
extent of territory and endowed with more scarcity of ministers.

2nd That the magistrates and prosecutors from the Audiencia of Manila, fulfilling the law of
the Indies can not ever get charge, advice or commission of any kind,
for any title, reason or cause, and in no case have other occupation
than that which will mark its August ministry.

Section 1 of the provisional rules for the administration of justice in Spain.

That 3rd largest and Fixed municipalities of all the islands are classified by input promotions
and terminations, and are performed by lawyers who must be of Royal appointment, and only in
the meantime will provide them generals, captains, governors, to
three candidates proposed by the hearing, any vacancies that occur
until the approval of His Majesty or the appointment of successor.

4th May for the provision of these destinations will comply with the
laws of India, speaking on provision of jobs, and saved the requirements
and formalities prescribed them [12] and also created many desirable
to replace some of those to be deleted.

5th That these charges are conferred by six years, with renewable with three others, when who
have exercised not giving cause for complaint, complied with to the satisfaction of the authorities above,
and then could be kept in them until the opportunity of transferring as appropriate and applicable,
moving up the vacancies according to their merit, ability and behavior;
bearing in mind that seniority will not advantage, but only on equal
circumstances.

Impeachment 6th to be the end of six years, or sooner if just cause
of dieren complaint, to request or the public prosecutor, or ex officio
if it would lead to under rules given in appropriate regulations.

That must be gifted 7th competently, and with a small difference in salary in scale set, as
their functions being equal, should have the greatest possible equality in the rewards, and
should barred: 1st all dealings, trade or merchandise is under serious penalties, which should
be detailed and be effective if: 2nd who do not receive fees any kind, paid for by the government
to administer justice, must not have another monetary pay his salary, and knowing that his good
size and zeal for the service they remunerated their respective promotions. The extinction of the
so-called fees judges is a point of reform, the more interesting because the judges will be
truly impartial judges, that do not support requests estemporáneas or multiply dilijencias useless,
which often take place to make up those fees, which on injury your pocket loss suffered by
the litigants, it is no less bulk the business suffered court, for
the delay and loss of precious time spent on such activities.

May 8th lawyers who have served to the satisfaction of their municipal government by the scale
established, they attend the merit contracted in the race to fill vacancies occurring in the hearing
of the territory, and are placed on them in preference to other any applicant, as justice requires,
and recommend various Indian laws, which deal on service awards, which can and should be understood
the same in the case of speech [13]. When you find that audience served by magistrates who have
made a career in the provinces, agreements and orders can not but be the most fair and similar
to the laws of India, the customs of the natives, and the good of the country, like chair across
the esperiencia and practice acquired in the years of his career,
which is not at least for the success.

May 9th level is kept strictly in the race, and are promoted to the courts for promotion the
entrance, and climb to the finish line, so that if this plan is adopted, once provided the
mayor, could not be provided those who aspire to enter the race more
than in courts of entry, and they passed over the whole scale spaces
for magistrates at the hearing, as stated.

10th May to encourage good lawyers to seek such positions, justifying course Majesty's Government
desire to compensate so that corresponds to the important dignity this kind of services that
judges were going to pay, and resolve to undertake the long journey for such a beautiful and
remote country, declare a mountain principle to the salary provided they signal, so that in the
case of dying on the trip or shortly after their arrival, are not in abandonment and neglect their
wives and children; only way of how useful stimulus for reform arises as soon as possible,
and establish, as would happen under such a sure guarantee.

Results of this simple plan would be the most advantageous and satisfactory to the administration
justice and happiness of those countries.

11.o The endowment of the three designated classes or correjidores mayors, although equals does
not seem fair, it should not keep large disproportion, because being equal homework and assignments
from your primary school, there will be no more difference in your work more or less the population
of their districts, which have a separate compensation, as for all, as told in the next paragraph.
So, then, can survive with decency the mayors of entry, with an annual
salary of 1200 pesos fuertes, the ascent in 1500, and the term to
1800, means no other fees or ovenciones as said on the 7th number

12th
The compensation indicated above shall be effected by a payment of
half percent or at most one, on tax revenue or perceive to be under
his charge.

Between that this payment amount and the salary stated, is surely not serious to the Treasury
of any Thus, because both assignments together, they fall not nearly in the most of the provinces
what we now perceive to have the mayors and correjidores not administer justice, because for most
good wishes that they assume, their ignorance of legal formulas and their occupations do not
permit commercial.

13.o That is also reached for removing all privileges of such heinous
Indians, as opposed to the march of prosperity, as repugnant to reason,
because if your Orijen might be good, so do not venture, are in the
extreme and harmful, and thus, the constitutional law for those countries
should be sympathetic to and govern rejirse it to all the Islanders,
that is, that before the law all are equal, that all are subject to
her, bound her to all compliance and enforcement, without distinction
of caste or color, European Spanish, black and white, Chinese, and
mestizos, Indians and mulattos many breeds are known to settlement
in the Islands, all have to rely on the same law, as well as dependent
and part of the same nation: only the military courts to deal with
faults service, subordination and discipline, was to be the only exception,
but beyond this the military should be tried for common crimes and
in their lawsuits, as well as any other city, and by the same law.

Any distinction in it, any privilege, it is more a violation of the law generals, and should
not be granted to anyone for any reason or cause. In good time to be rewarded with generosity
and even the unique and extraordinary lavishly services can be provided in critical circumstances
and developments in science or useful discoveries in agriculture, industry and navigation,
but never rewarded with violation of the law, and these awards are purely personal, and with
death fenezcan the keeper. In short, one law, one jurisdiction, and a single authority that
will judge by more brief formalities that point, is the only way to pave the way for justice
is administered promptly and respected. To simplify as much as possible those inveterate and ancient
rituals of the trials, which serve more to obscure the truth, to find it and know that it's right
for everyone, and that lawyers sufficiency accredited, competency and integrity known are those
who occupy these places, which extinguishes previlejio all out and disappear from the Forum
to those powers of jurisdiction and with simplicity, clarity and brevity in the formulas of prosecution
or substantiation, can not fail to touch the most eSCelente results, and considerable advantages
to the line and prompt administration of justice.

Admitted to his generals the proposed reform plan, or one that can assume this that as the present
the advantages and economies have on there, it seems appropriate by conclusion of this line,
divided into the three different governments point scale, Fixed or mayors in the Philippines
for appropriate uses. Has been named the Governments word, because some provinces have military
governor, and it seems appropriate so leave them to reward merit and honest services of former
military and who have provided in those countries, so, therefore, seems comfortable and appropriate
division of the provinces Philippines, the following classification:

Military governments.

For leaders.

Cavite. Zamboanga. Marianas Islands.

For junior.

Batanes Islands.

Courts of entry.

Zambales. Batangas.

    Cagayan [14].

        Camarines
        Norte. Nueva
        Ecija. Mindoro.

    Leyte. Negros Island.

        Calamianes.

Justices of the promotion.

Laguna de Bay. Tayabas.

Bulacan. Batangas. Capistrano. Antique. Zebu. Caraga.

Justices of the term.

Tondo [15]. Pampanga. Pangasinan. Ilocos Sur. Ilocos Norte. Camarines Sur. Albay. Misamris. Iloylo.

REMARKS.

1.a
The court must Cagayan collectorate separable from the factory or snuff, and name the Collector
factor to government fixed salary, or with a reasonable percentage, since according to plant that
is, is astonishing: it is scandalous that a mayor to collect this fee collector of snuff, count
the excessive endowment enjoyed, that the stocks of snuff for Spain extraordinary rise; exceeds
twelve thousand dollars annually which took the mayor to let to be lately. This is a monstrosity
that demands rapid reform, because it repeats is scandalous that a very junior employee as is
the collector of snuff mayor, is level in salary with the captain general of the Islands, and
enjoy twice, even three greater than the higher authorities of these islands, such as the
mayor, regent, judges, chief accountant, and public finance ministers in the Philippines,
etc. The economy the expenses of the treasury and good administration call this reform, I have understood
that something has been said, but good results are ignored, if it has been.

2.a The military government of Cavite harbor and marina, it should be reduced to purely military
and the deputy chief justice of the tax collector must be literate,
as in the other provinces, and this be placed in the class of the
climb.

May 3rd so this military government, as the Marianas Islands, the Zamboanga, and the Batanes Islands,
should be to reward the meritorious services of military Islands have served at least ten years,
and the other qualities that are deemed appropriate, must be provided by the government, upon the
recommendation of the captain general of the Philippines when Vaquer, they must be jobs for
life, unless, giving cause and justified, deserving be separated after trial, in which case,
besides the deprivation of employment, wages and honors, would suffer the penalties that would place
in law, and according to the seriousness of the cause because they
proceed against them, judging them according to law.

In the Mariana Islands and Zamboanga should be a consultant.

4.a last. As counsel to the judges responsible for the tax revenue paid by Indians, shall be
arranged in separate provisions of securities class and how should rendered by this commission,
and methodically simplify the system of accounts annually must pay the money they raise, because
the method is seen to account for his administration the mayors and correjidores the end and
cease its commission, is harmful and wasteful of public funds, stakeholders, and to the proper administration
of Justice: clear and annual accounts is the best way to shield and
good administration state funds, and if he were another means safer,
this should be the one to be adopted.

§. VI.

COURT OF GOODS AND HEIRS OF DECEASED Ultramarines.

In dealing with the charges against the ministers of the audience, we have left to talk court in
a separate paragraph of goods of the dead, and before concluding this first part, is the most appropriate
place to deal with this agency or branch of the judiciary.

The establishment of this court is of great authority and importance, and as such we set and
protect the laws of the Indies [16] and many subsequent royal decrees, so that conserving and improve
its plant under given rules, spread the knowledge of its affairs ministers of the audience, and put
them in the first instance under the inspection of the same professional judges, who come to
the exigencies required by law [17], and with restrictions as deemed and guarantees that they
can not abuse his ministry even if they want, or distract one such real estates, should be
the main basis of this reform, according to justice very and public convenience. This court
has a box in the same place, to remain and guard public funding of state [18], and it places
the court on the remaining liquid probate before it by right.

There is a book for your account and reason, which runs to by finance offices [19], which recorded
revenues and expenditures that occur and not without that box existence of an entity. Some
of the quantities the form have many years of deposit, otherwise it is not the case that a
court deposit box.

The Government must take some step to ensure that they had some time to such investment funds
in a profitable, and it being adjudged certain accounts to circulation saliesen the funds, it
was from afar at the hands of owners, or the state if they do not exist: the effect could be
available to finance the Manila office forms and send these forms back circumstances on state funds
that exist in housing, date admitted, and estates to whom they belong, with the names of those
who left, for all This consists of the seats in his book. The court should send another note
of the names people who left these goods, when they went to the Islands, representation or category
and that had led to his death, village or province of its nature,
and other timely news, and that the papers of the deceased or information
that should practiced his death, are easy to give his time, and today
the cars Probate and papers must be held by the defender or having
the court or in the file.

This news should be published annually in the Government Gazette and other newspapers two or three
times a year, at different times, only way to know if there are no heirs or afar to such property,
if any, that may seek to use their right and justify it to him court, that if they hand over their
inheritance. These funds would come to Spain would make the fortunes of many families, and
the nation would increase their wealth. Deserves consideration In that regard, and more knowing
that the funds of the box are not minor. Continue as now are, is the flow of the miser who buries
him not to steal it, but that neither enjoy it or leave it enjoys,
is to have buried a treasure that can produce, but opposes its production
to the state in which it has of oppression and captivity. "As regards their methods--if
the renowned Ling insists--they fight by means of their bows, with which they discharge arrows
at the foemen, they themselves hiding behind trees and rocks. Should the enemy be undisconcerted
by the cloud of arrows, and advance, the bowmen are instructed to make a last endeavour to
frighten them back by uttering loud shouts and feigning the voices of savage beasts of the
forest and deadly snakes."

"And beyond that?" inquired Ling.

"Beyond that there are no instructions," replied the Chief. "The bowmen would then naturally
take to flight, or, if such a course became impossible, run to meet the enemy, protesting that
they were convinced of the justice of their cause, and were determined to fight on their side
in the future."

"Would it not be of advantage to arm them with cutting weapons also?" inquired Ling; "so that
when all their arrows were discharged they would still be able to take part in the fight, and
not be lost to us?"

"They would not be lost to us, of course," replied the Chief, "as we would still be with them.
But such a course as the one you suggest could not fail to end in dismay. Being as well armed
as ourselves, they would then turn upon us, and, having destroyed us, proceed to establish
leaders of their own."

As Ling and the Chief of Bowmen conversed in this enlightened manner, there arose a great outcry
from among the tents, and presently there entered to them a spy who had discovered a strong
force of the enemy not more than ten or twelve li away, who showed every indication of marching
shortly in the direction of Si-chow. In numbers alone, he continued, they were greatly superior
to the bowmen, and all were well armed. The spreading of this news threw the entire camp into
great confusion, many protesting that the day was not a favourable one on which to fight, others
crying that it was their duty to fall back on Si-chow and protect the women and children. In
the midst of this tumult the Chief of Bowmen returned to Ling, bearing in his hand a written
paper which he regarded in uncontrollable anguish.

"Oh, illustrious Ling," he cried, restraining his grief with difficulty, and leaning for support
upon the shoulders of two bowmen, "how prosperous indeed are you! What greater misfortune can
engulf a person who is both an ambitious soldier and an affectionate son, than to lose such
a chance of glory and promotion as only occurs once within the lifetime, and an affectionate
and venerable father upon the same day? Behold this mandate to attend, without a moment's delay,
at the funeral obsequies of one whom I left, only last week, in the fullness of health and
power. The occasion being an unsuitable one, I will not call upon the courteous Ling to join
me in sorrow; but his own devout filial piety is so well known that I can conscientiously rely
upon an application for absence to be only a matter of official ceremony."

"The application will certainly be regarded as merely official ceremony," replied Ling, without
resorting to any delicate pretence of meaning, "and the refined scruples of the person who
is addressing me will be fully met by the official date of his venerated father's death being
fixed for a more convenient season. In the meantime, the unobtrusive Chief of Bowmen may take
the opportunity of requesting that the family tomb be kept unsealed until he is heard from again."

Ling turned away, as he finished this remark, with a dignified feeling of not inelegant resentment.
In this way he chanced to observe a large body of soldiers which was leaving the camp accompanied
by their lesser captains, all crowned with garlands of flowers and creeping plants. In spite
of his very inadequate attainments regarding words of order, the Commander made it understood
by means of an exceedingly short sentence that he was desirous of the men returning without delay.

"Doubtless the accomplished Commander, being but newly arrived in this neighbourhood, is unacquainted
with the significance of this display," said one of the lesser captains pleasantly. "Know then,
O wise and custom-respecting Ling, that on a similar day many years ago this valiant band of
bowmen was engaged in a very honourable affair with certain of the enemy. Since then it has
been the practice to commemorate the matter with music and other forms of delight within the
large square at Si-chow."

"Such customs are excellent," said Ling affably. "On this occasion, however, the public square
will be so insufferably thronged with the number of timorous and credulous villagers who have
pressed into the town that insufficient justice would be paid to your entrancing display. In
consequence of this, we will select for the purpose some convenient spot in the neighbourhood.
The proceedings will be commenced by a display of arrow-shooting at moving objects, followed
by racing and dancing, in which this person will lead. I have spoken."

At these words many of the more courageous among the bowmen became destructively inspired,
and raised shouts of defiance against the enemy, enumerating at great length the indignities
which they would heap upon their prisoners. Cries of distinction were also given on behalf
of Ling, even the more terrified exclaiming:

"The noble Commander Ling will lead us! He has promised, and assuredly he will not depart from
his word. Shielded by his broad and sacred body, from which the bullets glance aside harmlessly,
we will advance upon the enemy in the stealthy manner affected by ducks when crossing the swamp.
How altogether superior a person our Commander is when likened unto the leaders of the foemen--they
who go into battle completely surrounded by their archers!"

Upon this, perceiving the clear direction in which matters were turning, the Chief of Bowmen
again approached Ling.

"Doubtless the highly-favoured person whom I am now addressing has been endowed with exceptional
authority direct from Peking," he remarked with insidious politeness. "Otherwise this narrow-minded
individual would suggest that such a decision does not come within the judgment of a Commander."

In his ignorance of military matters it had not entered the mind of Ling that his authority
did not give him the power to commence an attack without consulting other and more distinguished
persons. At the suggestion, which he accepted as being composed of truth, he paused, the enlightened
zeal with which he had been inspired dying out as he plainly understood the difficulties by
which he was enclosed. There seemed a single expedient path for him in the matter; so, directing
a person of exceptional trustworthiness to prepare himself for a journey, he inscribed a communication
to the Mandarin Li Keen, in which he narrated the facts and asked for speedy directions, and
then despatched it with great urgency to Si-chow.

VI

When these matters were arranged, Ling returned to his tent, a victim to feelings of a deep
and confused doubt, for all courses seemed to be surrounded by extreme danger, with the strong
possibility of final disaster. While he was considering these things attentively, the spy who
had brought word of the presence of the enemy again sought him. As he entered, Ling perceived
that his face was the colour of a bleached linen garment, while there came with him the odour
of sickness.

"There are certain matters which this person has not made known," he said, having first expressed
a request that he might not be compelled to stand while he conversed. "The bowmen are as an
inferior kind of jackal, and they who lead them are pigs, but this person has observed that
the Heaven-sent Commander has internal organs like steel hardened in a white fire and polished
by running water. For this reason he will narrate to him the things he has seen--things at
which the lesser ones would undoubtedly perish in terror without offering to strike a blow."

"Speak," said Ling, "without fear and without concealment."

"In numbers the rebels are as three to one with the bowmen, and are, in addition, armed with
matchlocks and other weapons; this much I have already told," said the spy. "Yesterday they
entered the village of Ki without resistance, as the dwellers there were all peaceable persons,
who gain a living from the fields, and who neither understood nor troubled about the matters
between the rebels and the army. Relying on the promises made by the rebel chiefs, the villagers
even welcomed them, as they had been assured that they came as buyers of their corn and rice.
To-day not a house stands in the street of Ki, not a person lives. The men they slew quickly,
or held for torture, as they desired at the moment; the boys they hung from the trees as marks
for their arrows. Of the women and children this person, who has since been subject to several
attacks of fainting and vomiting, desires not to speak. The wells of Ki are filled with the
bodies of such as had the good fortune to be warned in time to slay themselves. The cattle
drag themselves from place to place on their forefeet; the fish in the Heng-Kiang are dying,
for they cannot live on water thickened into blood. All these things this person has seen."

When he had finished speaking, Ling remained in deep and funereal thought for some time. In
spite of his mild nature, the words which he had heard filled him with an inextinguishable
desire to slay in hand-to-hand fighting. He regretted that he had placed the decision of the
matter before Li Keen.

"If only this person had a mere handful of brave and expert warriors, he would not hesitate
to fall upon those savage and barbarous characters, and either destroy them to the last one,
or let his band suffer a like fate," he murmured to himself.

The return of the messenger found him engaged in reviewing the bowmen, and still in this mood,
so that it was with a commendable feeling of satisfaction, no less than virtuous contempt,
that he learned of the Mandarin's journey to Peking as soon as he understood that the rebels
were certainly in the neighbourhood.

"The wise and ornamental Li Keen is undoubtedly consistent in all matters," said Ling, with
some refined bitterness. "The only information regarding his duties to which this person obtained
from him chanced to be a likening of war to skilful chess-play, and to this end the accomplished
person in question has merely availed himself of a common expedient which places him at the
remote side of the divine Emperor. Yet this act is not unwelcome, for the responsibility of
deciding what course is to be adopted now clearly rests with this person. He is, as those who
are standing by may perceive, of under the usual height, and of no particular mental or bodily
attainments. But he has eaten the rice of the Emperor, and wears the Imperial sign embroidered
upon his arm. Before him are encamped the enemies of his master and of his land, and in no
way will he turn his back upon them. Against brave and skilful men, such as those whom this
person commands, rebels of a low and degraded order are powerless, and are, moreover, openly
forbidden to succeed by the Forty-second Mandate in the Sacred Book of Arguments. Should it
have happened that into this assembly any person of a perfidious or uncourageous nature has
gained entrance by guile, and has not been detected and driven forth by his outraged companions
(as would certainly occur if such a person were discovered), I, Ling, Commander of Bowmen,
make an especial and well-considered request that he shall be struck by a molten thunderbolt
if he turns to flight or holds thoughts of treachery."

Having thus addressed and encouraged the soldiers, Ling instructed them that each one should
cut and fashion for himself a graceful but weighty club from among the branches of the trees
around, and then return to the tents for the purpose of receiving food and rice spirit.

When noon was passed, allowing such time as would enable him to reach the camp of the enemy
an hour before darkness, Ling arranged the bowmen in companies of convenient numbers, and commenced
the march, sending forward spies, who were to work silently and bring back tidings from every
point. In this way he penetrated to within a single li of the ruins of Ki, being informed by
the spies that no outposts of the enemy were between him and that place. Here the first rest
was made to enable the more accurate and bold spies to reach them with trustworthy information
regarding the position and movements of the camp. With little delay there returned the one
who had brought the earliest tidings, bruised and torn with his successful haste through the
forest, but wearing a complacent and well-satisfied expression of countenance. Without hesitation
or waiting to demand money before he would reveal his knowledge, he at once disclosed that
the greater part of the enemy were rejoicing among the ruins of Ki, they having discovered
there a quantity of opium and a variety of liquids, while only a small guard remained in the
camp with their weapons ready. At these words Ling sprang from the ground in gladness, so great
was his certainty of destroying the invaders utterly. It was, however, with less pleasurable
emotions that he considered how he should effect the matter, for it was in no way advisable
to divide his numbers into two bands. Without any feeling of unendurable conceit, he understood
that no one but himself could hold the bowmen before an assault, however weak. In a similar
manner, he determined that it would be more advisable to attack those in the village first.
These he might have reasonable hopes of cutting down without warning the camp, or, in any event,
before those from the camp arrived. To assail the camp first would assuredly, by the firing,
draw upon them those from the village, and in whatever evil state these might arrive, they
would, by their numbers, terrify the bowmen, who without doubt would have suffered some loss
from the matchlocks.

Waiting for the last light of day, Ling led on the men again, and sending forward some of the
most reliable, surrounded the place of the village silently and without detection. In the open
space, among broken casks and other inconsiderable matters, plainly shown by the large fires
at which burned the last remains of the houses of Ki, many men moved or lay, some already dull
or in heavy sleep. As the darkness dropped suddenly, the signal of a peacock's shriek, three
times uttered, rang forth, and immediately a cloud of arrows, directed from all sides, poured
in among those who feasted. And this fact, he charged that those three gentlemen
his friends were to distribute to the all of the city, or ANSI as he had given the and marked,
and this fact, Volvo in front of them all. And thus, the lords were and gave and gave out the
land, and they cast them to the possessions of those who craves them the said grant was made by
the Inca Yupanqui. [Did you send?] Messrs. caciques there were, to fetch him some account each
Indian had him there, and cacique then they brought him by Quip, says account, the sum of the
Indians had, and known by the Inca Indians had Yupanqui, ordered [38] Messrs. then distributing
them houses, and so he was done. And then one day he ordered that each of Cuzco, as he had fitted
the fate of the land to the dressing saliesen and repair and make their taps and showers, all
of which were repaired and made of hewn stone, because was the building in fact so, that would
last perpetually, and bid them verifications their boundaries and landmarks high, so made, never
be lost, under which markers and each of them was put certain amount of carbon, saying that if at
any fall time is the landmark, which for the carbon held on it would know the boundaries of such
soils. And it provided, Inca Yupanqui was a few days, while in the dressing land order was
given, rejoiced and feasting seeing everyone worked and dressed the part that he had fitted,
and which via that with some work I did, gave him help.

And as he saw that the building and repair of such land was long and
went according to the objected that such were doing, and that it was
building that he could not finish without [39] aid sent The lords
and chieftains who were there came together in his house some day,
and were then ANSI well together as he commanded, and being there
in his house, told them that there was great need in the city of Cuzco
had deposits of all meals, yearning for maize and chili and frijoles
é chochos, and chicha and quinoa, and dried meats, é proveimientos
and all other cured foods they have, and that what had need of their
lands, sent for.

And then the lords chiefs said they were pleased to send you all will bring that commanded that
the city of Cuzco were some dried apricots in the company of the Indians who craves they invest,
so that they know their land to those who were there that was his will that such proveimiento
hiciesen to the city of Cuzco, because it was the first they were doing, and they very much desired
to make such a service to the city of Cuzco and his Lord Inca Yupanqui. All of which I was grateful
for Inca Yupanqui and then sent to those Lords of Cuzco that would provide further in their lodges,
together with those chiefs and gentlemen, craves the apricots had to go through the towns
and provinces to collect and bring such meals and maintenance. And thus, were the lords and
their captains and his board were beyond them and the chiefs, and handed out what each province
had to bring and contribute. And thus they were distributed to the chiefs who were there had
deposits to ANSI, and commanded them and said so many time to so many years might make him in
perpetuum, if the Inca were not sent them anything, all of which make such Acetate caciques
because they understood that Inca Yupanqui was the Lord who knew well that meet all service was
made.

And then there are on its board said the apricots lords who had to go, and so he himself the chiefs,
with their major winter; and so he was left these apricots and to bring such major food and
proveimientos. And the chiefs left their lords meeting and were do Inca Yupanqui was, which
told him what had made and ordered ANSI, as [to] they had orders and notices, and that pointing
out the sites and places do had deposits to be made because each of them had to do, and among them
the spread had. And then they said some Inca Yupanqui sheet [40] and mountain slopes that around
the city of Cuzco are and the sight of him, and there were then ordered
them built of such deposits, so that, when this was brought proveimiento,
found what you get.

And then there were the gentlemen to the sites by the Inca were identified and put to work
and building of such deposits. And tardóse to make and distribute these deposits land five
years, because they were so many shells they did, which sent to Inca Yupanqui, having plenty
of food and so they do not need. And by it craves food had, wanted to build the city of Cuzco in
stone and repair streams the hedge, and had in itself, rather than having supplies in such
quantity that you are missing, I could take the people he wanted [to] make and construct the
buildings and houses ANSI wanted to rebuild.

And the deposits made and provided, and now the land spread and finished sharing, Inca Yupanqui
ordered together the chiefs and gentlemen, in what has been said, he had made service, and thinking
that was just off making some grants and some contentment dalles, ANSI and being together, and gave
them repartióles many gold and silver jewelry that by the time in the play were the styling had
commanded, and gave each ansímismo two dresses the clothes of their garments, and to each of
them a woman gave them natives of Cuzco, his lineage, so that each one of these women were principal
chief whom he had ANSI given that the children é in such had, were heirs of such states and
chiefdoms that their parents had, on the basis Inca Yupanqui by the debtor that had them in
this way, none of them ever in your days you rebel, you would have
between them é é of Cuzco perpetual friendship and confederacy.

All of which ANSI done and seen major injuries chiefs [41] that made them, all bowed to kiss her
feet and he will give great graces. Á which Inca Yupanqui ordered that they should go to rest
their lands, and from then to one year returned to the city of Cuzco, é that at this time, each
of them in their land hiciesen planting many crops of all meals, because I had to would need, in
time: and commended them on their land no idleness hobiese in the young men and women, because
they were not such idleness causes have the remnants of his bad example attempting to execute
[exercise] every time they did not understand to make crops, in matters of war, that [and in]
such exercises as was to know wielding slingshots, throwing arrows, axes to play with how to fight
in battle brandishing spears with shields in their hands, all of which had to do on their land the
young men making a rope to put as many as another. All of which is heard by the chiefs, said
would do so and that was saying it was good. And thus the Inca them away, and them, making
their compliance, they came and went.

Gone were the chiefs to their land, that year that these chiefs had tare on their land and Inca
Yupanqui, by this time, not having to do he took to exercise going to hunt, which made the most
of the day, and other days they walked through the city looking and the site of it, imagining him
in the order itself was to give him and the building and rebuilding that she intended to do,
as he saw that these two streams that the city took in the middle they were great harm in it, for,
as the rains should come every year, they came from Avenue, é should come as Ansi always ate
the earth and were expanding and getting by the city, and via that it was detrimental to the
city and to the inhabitants of it, and to make their buildings and houses that she thought building,
which needed repair first the fervor of those two streams, and they repaired everything could
build any building without fear that such avenues they are dull.

And the year to compliment Inca Yupanqui seemed that it was time that these gentlemen neighboring
towns should come, inviolate his messengers, for which they shipped to say that it was time for should
come to the city, as he had told them when there were, and that a favorable answer "Likewise all the
more cattle they could, é é meals maintenance, it was now the time come Dell and dello TERNIA need.
All of which is heard by the chiefs, as they had ansímismo in care as well send them when from
is left, then went their way; because they already had with all those necessary to bring it,
and so they were already under way; with all parties and which came into the city of Cuzco and
they brought him all the more people who could.

É arrivals were to the city of Cuzco, the Inca made their compliance in this way, because this was
the style that I had when I was in front of Vian, that like in front
of were, raised their hands and faces to the sun, making your mochas
é compliance, then "Likewise é made them no less to the Inca, and
the words ANSI ANSI told when they greeted him, that told him: "Ah,
son of the sun loving and friendly to the poor!"

That said, brought them before his mind craves brought him, then he sacrificed certain é é sheep
lambs before é Dél compliance with all respect, as a son of the sun, and this ANSI fact, the
Inca used to say hello telling them they were welcome, and asked if we were good and that if they
were "Likewise their land. All of which you have heard these guys did with Inca Yupanqui caciques,
when they were in front of him, and he said ansímismo what you heard. É told them that should
give wore those eager lords of Cuzco to those who were there, and so he was left do the Inca was,
and they and those lords of Cuzco were do the deposits were placed é wore all maintenance to
be collected.

And after having loose with the Inca and the lords of Cuzco five days, at their parties é rejoicing,
Inca Yupanqui told them what he planned to do, and wanted to repair é é fortalescer indeed those
of these two streams that passed through the city, telling them the damage rescebia the city, and
they said orchestra ready to do everything that he they were commanded to tell them how quen
It had to have, because it would provide what to do if necessary. And ANSI, Inca Yupanqui pointed
out to them the sources of the streams, and from him to where he paresció who were to begin
such fortifications and repairs, to the junction of the two streams, which is the pinnacle of the
city do they call Pumachupa [Pumapchupan], which says "cola de leon" [42]: and from there sent to
the strengthening and repair Muyna came up [43], four leagues from this city parks. Messrs.
chiefs and ANSI medieron cords with space had since the beginning of where Inca Yupanqui [said]
they started, to the junction of the streams, and so he measured, and divided the party to each
ANSI Cabia the building had to do, and this fact, he commanded them to do Inca Yupanqui bring a
lot of rough stone, because of rough stone was to be the repairs,
and the mixture had to get between the stones, who would look that
was to be a sticky mud, which and that water will get wet, do not
remove it, and before the stones were grasped a other and the water
not just eat the mix.

And thus, the chiefs gave the order to seek é é mud mixture may bring rough stone was sent craves
them all, which brought ANSI, began their building. É é ordered that this building came to Muyna
strengthening [44]; because, as was repaired this stream of the city below, where the lands
and cultivated fields were, and the rains should come to the these avenues, the stream does
not break down the canyons é be entered by land and me a bad and damage to such crops.

And this fact é provided, sent to the lords of Cuzco that some day they wanted to communicate
a certain thing was proper long for the good of the city and the republic, to whom said, as
ANSI and were together, he had great need of clothes made deposits quantity, and for that I wanted
to make a big feast to the chiefs, in which party they were happy when he saw that it wanted to
say and they did send you crave it é proveyesen of their land. É lords said it was something very convenient
and well agreed, they wanted to give orders and command that they should do a lot of chicha,
and this fact é dressed, hiciéronselo know the Inca, who, as he knew that every fact was, said
another day I wanted to start the party, and so he summoned all those chiefs Lord, and being
front of him, told how he wanted idling é rejoice with them, and they received great favor.

É
next morning brought a lot of rushes and was thrown across the square and brought many branches
that rammed into it, in which branches were hung many flowers and many birds live; and so he,
the lords of Cuzco went very well dressed in the clothes that they cherished had, and the Inca
together with them: and they came ansímismo chiefs, who wore dresses the dresses that the Inca
would give them.

É then were taken to the place where a lot of very large number of
jugs of chicha, and then ladies came, longing for women and other
major Inca, which took many different dishes: and then sat down to
eat all, and after eating, they began to drink, and after drinking,
the Inca sent out four drums with gold, and still there in place,
to put mandáronlos stretch in it and then grabbed the hands of all
of them as both a part to another, and playing the drums, for so in
the middle were, began to sing together, starting the ladies sing
and behind them were women; singing in which they said and declared
that the coming Uscovilca had come upon them, and the Viracocha output,
[t how] Inca Yupanqui had him prisoner and killed, saying that the
sun had given favor for it, as his son: and how after he had defeated
and imprisoned ansímismo and dead to the captains who had made the
joint ANSI season.

É Then I began singing, giving praise and thanks to the sun and ansímismo to Inca Yupanqui,
greeting him like a son of the sun, became to sit. É ansímismo began to drink the chicha that
there had, which they say had very much, and in very large numbers. É I was brought there
after a lot of coca é divided between all of them, and this well done, he turned and made up,
as you heard ansímismo, a song and dance.

Which party lasted six [days], in order of which the Inca chiefs told those Gentlemen, that
being the agreement that it Cuzco hobiese clothing stores, wool ANSI and cotton: and that
ansímismo agreement that had deposits of a coarse sisal rugs é thick, with cords to two feet
at the ends of them, with which the tie to their throats as they see the Indians Paresce that
anxiously would give, which had to divide the workers and workers
in the repairs of the work of the streams they went, é them that "Likewise
in the other buildings had to walk, so that in such blankets cabuya
favorable answer would cause the earth é é ANSI stone was needed for
such work, é that as they had these blankets and such, do not spend
their own, which were made of wool é cotton, and the layers with which
they are covered.

All of which is heard by the lords caciques there were Inca Yupanqui said unto them, loose than
happy to do it as ANSI The Inca had commanded him.

É coming out of there, then sent to their lands, villages and provinces: and to have effect this
benefit, then sent on their land were together many women, and placed
in houses and yards, they were spread very thin, wool of different
colors, and that "Likewise were made and assembled many looms, é craves
men and women, with all the more promptly where possible, hiciesen
had clothes that fit them, each by himself, according to the extent
largor and anchor of them was given.

And these clothes made ANSI and finishes, was brought to the city Cuzco: and as there was, the
Inca sent to the chief of which was sent to Cuzco in deposits for such clothing had sent to ANSI.

And
this ANSI fact, the Inca lords é é the other chiefs, went strengthening and repairing these two streams
desto really the city of Cuzco, which already have heard, walking long The agreement was like
them on such workers in the work that went, giving them more quickly they could with all speed
to hiciesen and ends on such repairs and fortifications, in which work spent four years, with
as soon as they could do and finish his work.

Where, as it was finished, the Inca ordered and commanded that they should do another party,
according to the already we have told you, in which party might enjoy della participate and craves
the Lords as the other his subjects, in which party they were thirty days, in which he commanded
to the Inca who later out of the city of Cuzco certain amount of dried apricots, which were the lands
of those gentlemen who were there knew é é fetch him some account what amount had in these lands
and peoples of unmarried girls unmarried and young men, sending the caciques and principal
winters let their butlers, they llactacamayos call that this was his will and command, and that
he then should tell them with all speed should give é account of
such apricots to what is sent to wit, which came back with all speed;
all of which was eagerly dispatched fact é.

É given by the apricots in such towns and provinces account and reason for your request, returned
to the city of Cuzco, where, being before the Inca gave the reason that ANSI had known.

Understood by the Inca and the number of unmarried girls é youths in these villages had é provinces,
sent to these gentlemen, three good friends, who then left for of such towns and provinces, and
to take with all the caciques and gentlemen present there were with him in the presence of which
in each town and province arrived, marry young men from one province to the unmarried girls
of the other, and the unmarried girls the other with the young men of the other, and so he
were doing it for the land and subjective those men with him were chiefs, to grow and multiply
and they had perpetual friends, relatives and fellowship with one another. And this ANSI provided,
the Inca made many and large grants [to] these gentlemen chiefs, giving them many gifts, and
so he was left those lords of Cuzco and the other chiefs, and went
to do what they have heard.

And ANSI, was the Inca city of Cuzco to the same city and with some gentlemen of the peoples
of those around the city are a league, half to é, é less, to which he commanded, é "Likewise the men
of the city of Cuzco, then in front of a favorable answer, a master of those alone, the young
men who craves é unmarried girls in their villages had. É being brought in front of the boys é
such girls, the Inca himself married to all, and this actually sent from the warehouses needed
clothes that all these enough, and he and his é gave hand distributed
to all, I look forward men and women, giving each two dresses, and
"Likewise they gave to every one of these hemp blanket over the clothes
she gave to with the blanket as they work their work and exercises
and not consumed with those dresses gave them, and handed them é ansímismo
gave them corn and meat spread dry and dried fish é cupro sheep [45]
and earthenware that is served, é everything else that he thought
he needed was to take them home every one of them é was necessary
that they have at it.

And he commanded be given every four days é distributed to all of Cuzco what each one had need of food
and provision, seen and heard from the house of [the?] number of service [that] every one
of them had, [and] that they were given ANSI proveimiento craves them necessary for another
and for your service, ordering that the deposits bring forth out of such supplies é meals, and
that Dell hiciesen in the town square such large piles of meals, and from there they were handing
out for his measure, account and reason, giving each they look forward
hobiese necessary, which always commanded benefit é hiciese time lasted
the city of Cuzco was.

 Without any pleasurable anticipations, therefore, he consulted
the Sacred Flat and Round Sticks, and learning that the following day would be propitious for
the journey, he arranged to set out in accordance with the omen.

When the final moment arrived at which the invisible threads of constantly passing emotions
from one to the other must be broken, and when Mian perceived that her lover's horse was restrained
at the door by the two attendants, who with unsuspected delicacy of feeling had taken this
opportunity of withdrawing, the noble endurance which had hitherto upheld her melted away,
and she became involved in very melancholy and obscure meditations until she observed that
Ling also was quickly becoming affected by a similar gloom.

"Alas!" she exclaimed, "how unworthy a person I am thus to impose upon my lord a greater burden
than that which already weighs him down! Rather ought this one to dwell upon the happiness
of that day, when, after successfully evading or overthrowing the numerous bands of assassins
which infest the road from here to Canton, and after escaping or recovering from the many deadly
pestilences which invariably reduce that city at this season of the year, he shall triumphantly
return. Assuredly there is a highly-polished surface united to every action in life, no matter
how funereal it may at first appear. Indeed, there are many incidents compared with which death
itself is welcome, and to this end Mian has reserved a farewell gift."

Speaking in this manner the devoted and magnanimous maiden placed in Ling's hands the transparent
vessel of liquid which the magician had grasped when he fell. "This person," she continued,
speaking with difficulty, "places her lover's welfare incomparably before her own happiness,
and should he ever find himself in a situation which is unendurably oppressive, and from which
death is the only escape--such as inevitable tortures, the infliction of violent madness, or
the subjection by magic to the will of some designing woman--she begs him to accept this means
of freeing himself without regarding her anguish beyond expressing a clearly defined last wish
that the two persons in question may be in the end happily reunited in another existence."

Assured by this last evidence of affection, Ling felt that he had no longer any reason for
internal heaviness; his spirits were immeasurably raised by the fragrant incense of Mian's
great devotion, and under its influence he was even able to breathe towards her a few words
of similar comfort as he left the spot and began his journey.

IX

On entering Canton, which he successfully accomplished without any unpleasant adventure, the
marked absence of any dignified ostentation which had been accountable for many of Ling's misfortunes
in the past, impelled him again to reside in the same insignificant apartment that he had occupied
when he first visited the city as an unknown and unimportant candidate. In consequence of this,
when Ling was communicating to any person the signs by which messengers might find him, he
was compelled to add, "the neighbourhood in which this contemptible person resides is that
officially known as 'the mean quarter favoured by the lower class of those who murder by treachery,'"
and for this reason he was not always treated with the regard to which his attainments entitled
him, or which he would have unquestionably received had he been able to describe himself as
of "the partly-drained and uninfected area reserved to Mandarins and their friends."

It was with an ignoble feeling of mental distress that Ling exhibited himself at the Chief
Office of Warlike Deeds and Arrangements on the following day; for the many disadvantageous
incidents of his past life had repeated themselves before his eyes while he slept, and the
not unhopeful emotions which he had felt when in the inspiring presence of Mian were now altogether
absent. In spite of the fact that he reached the office during the early gong strokes of the
morning, it was not until the withdrawal of light that he reached any person who was in a position
to speak with him on the matter, so numerous were the lesser ones through whose chambers he
had to pass in the process. At length he found himself in the presence of an upper one who
had the appearance of being acquainted with the circumstances, and who received him with dignity,
though not with any embarrassing exhibition of respect or servility.

"'The hero of the illustrious encounter beyond the walls of Si-chow,'" exclaimed that official,
reading the words from the tablet of introduction which Ling had caused to be carried into
him, and at the same time examining the person in question closely. "Indeed, no such one is
known to those within this office, unless the words chance to point to the courteous and unassuming
Mandarin Li Keen, who, however, is at this moment recovering his health at Peking, as set forth
in the amiable and impartial report which we have lately received from him."

At these words Ling plainly understood that there was little hope of the last events becoming
profitable on his account.

"Did not the report to which allusion has been made bear reference to one Ling, Commander of
the Archers, who thrice led on the fighting men, and who was finally successful in causing
the rebels to disperse towards the mountains?" he asked, in a voice which somewhat trembled.

"There is certainly reference to one of the name you mention," said the other; "but regarding
the terms--perhaps this person would better protect his own estimable time by displaying the
report within your sight."

With these words the upper one struck a gong several times, and after receiving from an inner
chamber the parchment in question, he placed it before Ling, at the same time directing a lesser
one to interpose between it and the one who read it a large sheet of transparent substance,
so that destruction might not come to it, no matter in what way its contents affected the reader.
Thereon Ling perceived the following facts, very skilfully inscribed with the evident purpose
of inducing persons to believe, without question, that words so elegantly traced must of necessity
be truthful also.

  A Benevolent Example of the Intelligent Arrangement by which the
  most Worthy Persons outlive those who are Incapable.

  The circumstances connected with the office of the valuable and
  accomplished Mandarin of Warlike Deeds and Arrangements at Si-chow
  have, in recent times, been of anything but a prepossessing order.
  Owing to the very inadequate methods adopted by those who earn a
  livelihood by conveying necessities from the more enlightened
  portions of the Empire to that place, it so came about that for a
  period of five days the Yamen was entirely unsupplied with the
  fins of sharks or even with goats' eyes. To add to the polished
  Mandarin's distress of mind the barbarous and slow-witted rebels
  who infest those parts took this opportunity to destroy the town
  and most of its inhabitants, the matter coming about as follows:

  The feeble and commonplace person named Ling who commands the
  bowmen had but recently been elevated to that distinguished
  position from a menial and degraded occupation (for which, indeed,
  his stunted intellect more aptly fitted him); and being in
  consequence very greatly puffed out in self-gratification, he
  became an easy prey to the cunning of the rebels, and allowed
  himself to be beguiled into a trap, paying for this contemptible
  stupidity with his life. The town of Si-chow was then attacked,
  and being in this manner left defenceless through the weakness--or
  treachery--of the person Ling, who had contrived to encompass the
  entire destruction of his unyielding company, it fell after a
  determined and irreproachable resistance; the Mandarin Li Keen
  being told, as, covered with the blood of the foemen, he was
  dragged away from the thickest part of the unequal conflict by his
  followers, that he was the last person to leave the town. On his
  way to Peking with news of this valiant defence, the Mandarin was
  joined by the Chief of Bowmen, who had understood and avoided the
  very obvious snare into which the stagnant-minded Commander had
  led his followers, in spite of disinterested advice to the
  contrary. For this intelligent perception, and for general
  nobility of conduct when in battle, the versatile Chief of Bowmen
  is by this written paper strongly recommended to the dignity of
  receiving the small metal Embellishment of Valour.

  It has been suggested to the Mandarin Li Keen that the bestowal of
  the Crystal Button would only be a fit and graceful reward for his
  indefatigable efforts to uphold the dignity of the sublime
  Emperor; but to all such persons the Mandarin has sternly replied
  that such a proposal would more fitly originate from the renowned
  and valuable Office of Warlike Deeds and Arrangements, he well
  knowing that the wise and engaging persons who conduct that
  indispensable and well-regulated department are gracefully
  voracious in their efforts to reward merit, even when it is
  displayed, as in the case in question, by one who from his
  position will inevitably soon be urgently petitioning in a like
  manner on their behalf.

When Ling had finished reading this elegantly arranged but exceedingly misleading parchment,
he looked up with eyes from which he vainly endeavoured to restrain the signs of undignified
emotion, and said to the upper one:

"It is difficult employment for a person to refrain from unendurable thoughts when his unassuming
and really conscientious efforts are represented in a spirit of no satisfaction, yet in this
matter the very expert Li Keen appears to have gone beyond himself; the Commander Ling, who
is herein represented as being slain by the enemy, is, indeed, the person who is standing before
you, and all the other statements are in a like exactness."

"The short-sighted individual who for some hidden desire of his own is endeavouring to present
himself as the corrupt and degraded creature Ling, has overlooked one important circumstance,"
said the upper one, smiling in a very intolerable manner, at the same time causing his head
to move slightly from side to side in the fashion of one who rebukes with assumed geniality;
and, turning over the written paper, he displayed upon the under side the Imperial vermilion
Sign. "Perhaps," he continued, "the omniscient person will still continue in his remarks, even
with the evidence of the Emperor's unerring pencil to refute him."

At these words and the undoubted testimony of the red mark, which plainly declared the whole
of the written matter to be composed of truth, no matter what might afterwards transpire, Ling
understood that very little prosperity remained with him.

"But the town of Si-chow," he suggested, after examining his mind; "if any person in authority
visited the place, he would inevitably find it standing and its inhabitants in agreeable health."

"The persistent person who is so assiduously occupying my intellectual moments with empty words
seems to be unaccountably deficient in his knowledge of the customs of refined society and
of the meaning of the Imperial Signet," said the other, with an entire absence of benevolent
consideration. "That Si-chow has fallen and that Ling is dead are two utterly uncontroversial
matters truthfully recorded. If a person visited Si-chow, he might find it rebuilt or even
inhabited by those from the neighbouring villages or by evil spirits taking the forms of the
ones who formerly lived there; as in a like manner, Ling might be restored to existence by
magic, or his body might be found and possessed by an outcast demon who desired to revisit
the earth for a period. Such circumstances do not in any way disturb the announcement that
Si-chow has without question fallen, and that Ling has officially ceased to live, of which
events notifications have been sent to all who are concerned in the matters."

As the upper one ceased speaking, four strokes sounded upon the gong, and Ling immediately
found himself carried into the street by the current of both lesser and upper ones who poured
forth at the signal. The termination of this conversation left Ling in a more unenviable state
of dejection than any of the many preceding misfortunes had done, for with enlarged inducements
to possess himself of a competent appointment he seemed to be even further removed from this
attainment than he had been at any time in his life. He might, indeed, present himself again
for the public examinations; but in order to do even that it would be necessary for him to
wait almost a year, nor could he assure himself that his efforts would again be likely to result
in an equal success. Doubts also arose within his mind of the course which he should follow
in such a case; whether to adopt a new name, involving as it would certain humiliation and
perhaps disgrace if detection overtook his footsteps, or still to possess the title of one
who was in a measure dead, and hazard the likelihood of having any prosperity which he might
obtain reduced to nothing if the fact should become public. The
Spain General-consuming almost unique in that article, provided to the Philippine Islands the advantages
of a large branch of commerce, to navigation a merchant and exercise capacity profit, the nation's
treasury and considerable savings for the amounts that go to the abroad, and to consumers'
satisfaction in order to improve their inclinations, because there will never be convinced
that a snuff pure, soft and aromatic, like the Philippines, recognized so by all nations who have liked,
ceases to be preferred in Spain, which generals is consumed abroad, that hardly can take it to another
party if the jeneraliza Manila.

The snuff, as in the food, there is some national taste. Chinese, Malayalam, Malay, prefer the use
of snuff for their crops, resembling each detestable the snuff of others. In Spain there is
no harvest, the taste has been shaped by custom and need, and by these means can be varied
and even improved, it is clear that the snuff of Manila, as exceding plant in good quality to
many of his class, and everything else is fancy, illusion or prevention. All markets of Spain
and some of other European nations were reluctant at first to sugar in the Philippines by
the novelty of their smell and their grain, and then the knowledge that their essential advantages
outweigh its accidental qualities have made him a General-use and desired, and is on day one of the
main fruit in their wealth.

The snuff in the Philippines grows everywhere, and the production of this branch of agriculture
is indefinitely, and at lower prices than those harvested in other countries. Navigation, although
long, is well known and coveted by trade. Freight charges can not exceding weighing per arroba,
which is evidenced by the pipes made up here, so are naturally established the elements of a
great branch of trade between the Philippines and Spain without notice on this point the need
for further caution that the road Manila snuff is precisely driven into leaded and sealed
boxes, and is transported tea from China, in order that their flavor does not dissipate or decrease
your strength, as is that of Havana and others in the navigation.

Esponse everything on this income, reforms and bases for promotion, agriculture Trade and the Government
should adopt, it seems are like most appropriate:

1a, which extends the monopoly of snuff in the Philippines to all provinces excluded in without
any exception, using the means that government leniency with soft and that made the conquest and
acquisition of those lands, and never, or very rare case, the authority or force, but arrived
this case, with all do respect its provisions Enerji and mandates.

2nd That the identification and capacity of the leaf buying to rent growers, is made to a board
appointed annually by employees of the capital of the most trusted INTELLIGENCE é in the field,
with assistance from the mayor of the province, before the faith of a notary public, if any, and
if not, is elijirá person extends to the case and authorize the dilijencias board, concluding
the ceremony, you should burn at once to the same board all the snuff that would have been futile.
All this, as that practiced on guaranteeing the smooth use of the interest income would destroy
any hidden handling that might be detrimental, and formalities prescribed
would give some importance to act very necessary and proper for which
corresponds to compliance with public funds.

3.a last. That contracts of chartering of vessels, as has been established, but vessels Spanish, renewed
annually, is brought to Spain all that is needed to snuff the Peninsula consumption, paid with
the amount of the collection of branches of finance for referral
annual surplus to Spain and boxes of Manila, and by removing the dilapidated
system of warrants.

So set the plan, consideration would be of great profits that the nation would take annually
in this sector, and not less bulk and importance to promoting agriculture would receive and
trade in the Philippines, and more authority than they can describe the assistance that Asian-Spanish
provinces contribute to public funds because, besides the sary contribution we pay to the stranger
for his snuff of Kentuqui and Virjinia; shocking thing and even shocking, as we are by a foreign
tax on an item which our overseas provinces can supply the world with better and more comfort
Jenera price; and yet that Providence and the bravery and courage Spanish owners gave us three centuries
of these mines has snuff, until today we still tax the foreigner for this production, because
it is not known, or not wanted to take the match to be of our own
production.

Much more could be added in this area, but just right for timely reminder
of So in this part for us and we need to do, because serious superfluous,
even annoying, stopping to show things that are at this point well
within reach of everyone.

§. VI.

INCOME OF WINE.

The products of this income can never get to be in the Philippines from the consideration that
those of snuff, for the Indians (only consumers of wine stagnant) are very sober beverages, because
even not known in all its extent the vice of drunkenness.

The coconut and nipa wine, only stagnant, are healthy for the Indians, because the tobacco regularized
sets of peoples, has perfected the preparation of liquor, and has moderate its strength, making
it more pleasant and helpful, and so the Indians in General-want
more the monopoly that the freedom of this article.

The lack of increase in this income mainly depends not be spread abroad through all the provinces
of the islands, as it should be, to match the condition of natural destroy the contraband, and
avoid hereby make other drinks harmful to your health, according to happens to the rom or rum,
sugar or honey, and other brew mistelas making unhealthy.

This idea spread abroad the monopoly of this income for all provinces perhaps alarmed many who
are familiar with the practical character of the Indians, and seeing each reform a useful and necessary
evils Jerman of stories that presents their timid exaggeration spirit, influence, engage and
work always to raise barriers and building resilience, spans more by fear than by reason, not
to make progress in the way of improvements. A these weak spirits only reply to his visions,
and for compelling reasons in support my doctrine, suffice it to
say that not many years ago it spread the monopoly of this income
to the provinces of Camarines and Albay, and planned and established
without opposition or resistance some, and rent increased revenues
with provinces such products are, and that before were not so tight,
that does so as soon settled in these provinces without use of force,
without violence and without any Jenera of oppression, it is very
easy to establish this tight in all the other free, the only way that
this progress and increase income yields.

But instead of engaging in such an important issue, and provide income to the expanse that must
be for promotion, not long ago the reloaded with new employees and salaries, rising to a rank
in expenses that he never had, and still did not need the possessed. Not content even with
this, in 1839 approved the creation and establishment of a subordinate administration, entitled
Town of Manila, endowing it with an administrator with a thousand dollars of annual salary a
controller with six hundred, and I know that but, when the system of income from Orijen or
has required the administration subordinate or expenditures, and may well continue without
one or the other, what it is, and encouraged no such increase jobs and wages. I have not seen or
accurate news of the bases that would prevail in forming this expedient increase of employees
and creation of the subaltern, who finally passed, but I doubt that report consideration to the
benefits of rent, and I think more useful than either of lien, so what persuade the manager to
know that Gen. D. Pablo Fernandez Alonso served in her many years without senior employees who
are now generals office, the established and perfected, lead to a range of splendor for the
products they yield, which is easy to know collating how the income received and how he handed
to his successor. Data to come to the attention of this truth the secretary of finance, must exist,
and with them will view it it was income and what it is today, which spent before and what
is now spent, and such news nothing easier than starting with a reform that the best way to
ensure the administration, make the economies to be fair and avoid hand extends easily to new
creation of offices and employees increased, until the expanse to be acquired income, the demand
to equip the new units to be set, if you want that the income of wine became what can and should
be in one province that is well look, and that is not established, it will resist the establishment,
if done by wise and gentle ways well known in the Philippines.

§. VII.

OFFICE OF THE TREASURY IN PARTICULAR.

Titled office treasury and accounting general of army and government finances, the first Islands,
the court and hearing more accounts or accounting, the Quartermaster General- General-Army and local deputy
superintendent of public finances, income from snuff and wine, customs, postal and higher government
secretariat, but deserved to be treated each one in a separate paragraph all in a balloon is
brought into this place, because in all there are only a vice that fight, namely, the excess
number of employee owners, escedentes, supernumerary & C., that is in them all, and the need
for clean, which reduces to the purely accurate, useful and necessary, download the public
treasury as salary, pension and annuities ought not to pay, because if twenty good employees can be covered
service, Why it has to maintain state or two hundred? This and only this is the reform plan These
offices need, the blame for this abuse of this disorder, and even if you want of this evil, it is
not the wretched suitors obtaron and got these loans, but the government, who should have known
enough for him twenty employees, for example, he named to hundreds,
no account and reason, providing Temporary and future against the
law expresses Pig [21], taxing and damaging one treasury, and not
putting all the dedication and zeal in administering which had to.

Notwithstanding the balloon that all offices in order to express only are provided with a profusion
of employees, I also try, but quickly, for the some in particular,
because there is a flaw, should be reported and obtain remedy.

This happens, for example, cash accounting and general of the army and public finances the first
offices, as has been said, the accountant and treasurer are two bosses Gen. collected, managed
and distributed together, bound jointly and in the field the league information equal partnership,
according to ancient instructions, which if your Orijen and many years could then be useful
and good, and are defective and even harmful, because this method delayed service, and gives rise to
disputes and Orijen, disagreements and even scandals among both heads, as in my time I've seen
him that separation of these offices and their establishment in new plant and form, setting
its powers to every one, is so urjencia and necessity, it would be annoying and even lost time
stopping to show a truth that the Government must be precise and accurate data, and so I have
understood that already addressed this in another time, and today
these offices should be separated, but not having a certainty of it,
I have given my poor opinion in the matter.

In court and audience analysis, or accounting is greater if the increase of hands has received since
my absence has not caught up business, I do not know when get this, it is not the fault of the employees,
but the debtors of the estate, dedicated to hinder and delay the payment of what is owed by every
means within his reach: so is that there is a regular trial expedients of accounts that have
many years of acting, but for unusual transactions, unknown, and therefore illegal, as that are
intended only to delay paying what they owe, with injury and damage to the treasury, as the
Government must know the relationships that the chief accountant shall report State trials of
the day, with expression of what is owed, which has claimed, and
what still remains to duty, the dilijencias ratio for all practiced.

On this point there has always been delays of consideration in Manila, many could cite as consultant
for the court was more than three years without wages (and its square as useful and necessary
not had to either approve SM), I have very exact information about the case, and a notebook
that I gave orders, that something would prove so in the case say, but as I said that my purpose is
not to accuse anyone, but to denounce abuses in generals, and propose remedies, I conclude
on this particular saying that if no action is taken EnerJar and compulsory with close nominal effective
responsibility and not the treasure every day lose more and more, and suffer losses, as always
suffered, and proves to be so the Royal Decree of October 29 1807, SM strange why so many things
about the administration of public finances in the Philippines at that time, how are the points
and extremities that embraces the Royal decree issued and direct abuse cut and put in better collection
and administration of state revenues. The Real disposition, as worthy to be taken to the eye,
and very conducive to the reforms should be done, as they continue
the same or greater abuses, will go back to end, marked with number
2, having a bit of it happened in my papers.

The offices of the superintendent of public finances, well-regarded occupations and tasks, and
that the captain generals, as governor, has a secretary and a secretariat could send those, it
would be very useful and helpful to suppress and save their salaries, and recast in the offices
of government, exercising the functions of General-Superintendent Captain subdelegado generals,
as it was for many years, having established the esperiencia the reunion of all superior authority
in the first to send weapons, it is advantageous for those countries, it is known that the more
you divide and share the authority is less powerful, is less prestijio and moral force, and therefore
as less powerful, less respected, and more esponse to slights, that however small, defile the
character of top officials of a state.

Moreover, this would provide economies are also of considerable bulk and weight to the effect
of this reform.

Speaking of the income of snuff and wine, and noted that abound of employees, so only remains to indicate
that the first only elaboratorios and storage must be increased to manufacture and maintain as
it could work and have always plentiful assortments of all but not only to remit to the Peninsula,
but to sell abroad, and meet hiciese few trade orders for Sport,
as an article of trade can also be useful as indicated.

This would occupy many families, and would facilitate their livelihoods; besides the very helpful and
useful to the national treasury, which would undoubtedly increase their income.

In the office had much to say, but leave it to silence by not incurring any inaccuracies because
of this facility is an interested party that can and should promote useful reforms that created
you agree. Manila trade confidentially complained many the delay times experienced by businesses
and other damages by the method undergoes with which they are mounted that customs offices, where
from dawn to dusk, without exception of holidays and public holidays
should be constantly running the office, but above all trade is who
should represent and seek to remove obstacles that may impair, and
raising the progress of reforms to suit their needs.

Ultimately, it is noted and known that in every office there is a growing and even exorbitant
number of Indians who have endowment clerks from four to twelve dollars each month; class I would
deem prudent to delete, then all employees should know that it is to deal As he put his trust
and care, and write it and without regard servants demands the negotiated allocation. Only the heads
should each have a clerk vantage to copy their work properly, but that all tables have one, and
some two parking clerks, and also, as in an office, has tables that can Generals call for papers,
gather as six, eight and even more to copy, as table School is not only shocking, but cumbersome
and disruptive, for the sums that their salaries absorb. The Indians engaged in tasks best in
its class, as many arms would be useful to industry and agriculture in the Islands, which would
provide more useful services to the state, not in the miserable idleness
in which they live, the low wage slaves enjoyed.

On post office and has said that the exponent with another co-deputation made several reflections
for directing an exposition to the throne by reason of having come to understand reform burdensome
that this income was introduced, and approved a main office in a
bright and expensive over scarce goods and purely temporary, as will
proven by these observations, as mentioned, will in the final copy,
marked with number.

1st

Anything more would stretch it out on the case, but not daring to venture anything without data
accurate, I fail to extend my thoughts on the subject, to avoid which are then interpreted of
sinister, daughters of bad faith, or at least a gross ignorance, when precisely this case, without
seeing the expedient which was the approval of the office bright and even without using previously
practiced, could not presentárseme easiest thing to ride the establishment of a so without
burdening the exchequer, would be useful to dependents debian deal
on it, but this is not of this place or my incunvencia, the Government
plays consider the plant with and known their services, reforming
the most economical and fair way.

Overcome with remorse at deceiving so courteous and noble-minded a person, Ling fully explained
the circumstances to him, not even concealing from him certain facts which related to the actions
of remote ancestors, but which, nevertheless, appeared to have influenced the succession of
events. When he had made an end of the narrative, the other said:

"Behold now, it is truly remarked that every Mandarin has three hands and every soldier a like
number of feet, yet it is a saying which is rather to be regarded as manifesting the deep wisdom
and discrimination of the speaker than as an actual fact which can be taken advantage of when
one is so minded--least of all by so valiant a Commander as the one before me, who has clearly
proved that in time of battle he has exactly reversed the position."

"The loss would undoubtedly be of considerable inconvenience occasionally," admitted Ling,
"yet none the less the sage remark of Huai Mei-shan, 'When actually in the embrace of a voracious
and powerful wild animal, the desirability of leaving a limb is not a matter to be subjected
to lengthy consideration,' is undoubtedly a valuable guide for general conduct. This person
has endured many misfortunes and suffered many injustices; he has known the wolf-gnawings of
great hopes, which have withered and daily grown less when the difficulties of maintaining
an honourable and illustrious career have unfolded themselves within his sight. Before him
still lie the attractions of a moderate competency to be shared with the one whose absence
would make even the Upper Region unendurable, and after having this entrancing future once
shattered by the tiger-like cupidity of a depraved and incapable Mandarin, he is determined
to welcome even the sacrifice which you condemn rather than let the opportunity vanish through
indecision."

"It is not an unworthy or abandoned decision," said the one whose aid Ling had invoked, "nor
a matter in which this person would refrain from taking part, were there no other and more
agreeable means by which the same results may be attained. A circumstance has occurred within
this superficial person's mind, however: A brother of the one who is addressing you is by profession
one of those who purchase large undertakings for which they have not the money to pay, and
who thereupon by various expedients gain the ear of the thrifty, enticing them by fair offers
of return to entrust their savings for the purpose of paying off the debt. These persons are
ever on the watch for transactions by which they inevitably prosper without incurring any obligation,
and doubtless my brother will be able to gather a just share of the value of your highly-remunerative
body without submitting you to the insufferable annoyance of losing a great part of it prematurely."

Without clearly understanding how so inviting an arrangement could be effected, the manner
of speaking was exceedingly alluring to Ling's mind, perplexed as he had become through weighing
and considering the various attitudes of the entire matter. To receive a certain and sufficient
sum of money without his person being in any way mutilated would be a satisfactory, but as
far as he had been able to observe an unapproachable, solution to the difficulty. In the mind
of the amiable person with whom he was conversing, however, the accomplishment did not appear
to be surrounded by unnatural obstacles, so that Ling was content to leave the entire design
in his hands, after stating that he would again present himself on a certain occasion when
it was asserted that the brother in question would be present.

So internally lightened did Ling feel after this inspiring conversation, and so confident of
a speedy success had the obliging person's words made him become, that for the first time since
his return to Canton he was able to take an intellectual interest in the pleasures of the city. 

LPA

POST.

1st ISSUE

Comments that are cited.

That the action taken by the government, establishing a post office in Manila, varying around
the way he had, without regard to that project is not new, to have been touched actual and real
damages that incurred by the Treasury and the neighborhood, and in a word that is not conducive,
or in any way advantageous that office as ordered set. All will be shown in the most simple
and clear, and if the reasons were expresses himself such that fixing the true point of view
that should be the question, clarified in a conclusively the disadvantage
of the new establishment of that office, and convenience that income
here and then continue as before with only the most accurate or necessary
reform, and by virtue of so agreed to, the silly venture to ensure
the gratitude of the inhabitants of such provisions and that their
work in this case would be just satisfied.

But before entering upon the esplanacion of the items listed, it is appropriate and should precede
a brief relation of state income post in the Philippines since its creation, and what annual
expenditure class has orijinado, to come out of here to deduce that under the look and feel
which has always had, has given the treasury income security, more or less, as most or less
competition for domestic vessels (only drivers of correspondence).

In view of this relationship, and comparing the old method with the mandate set Dec. 5 1837,
and will certainly at first sight the advantage of that on it.

Post income in the Philippines was established in 1762, but limited and restricted to only
mail overseas in national vessels. Captain General-was certainly born to judge this income, as superintendent
Gen. subdelegado, and the only administration was responsible to a neighbor of honesty and
trust, with only the allocation of 25 per 100 on everything it collects. This appointment was approved
by the office of general of Mexico, from which depended everything.

By this simple method is that if the rent for a year or more produced nothing, allegedly caused
either charge, and for every hundred dollars of production, entered the treasury seventy and five.

During
the domination of the Americas, the administrator of the Philippines surrendered to the accounts
general of Mexico, who was receiving orders and instructions, as well as the upper emanating
of the Peninsula. Emancipated the Americas, the postal authorities began to Manila deal directly
with the direction general of Madrid, and shortly after this time, he administrator in the
Philippines rose to a payment of three hundred dollars on account of house and a hundred weights
for a clerk, only rent costs, and guarantee that if you wanted but
their income, just add a controller to the percentage also was made
as you could wish for the safety of their funds.

The shipping of the cards, or the tariff of prices, have also been changes in different times,
and always in favor of progressive increase in income, then, that towards the end of rates last
century marked a weight per ounce, silver and two real strong for each card simple or not
to arrive half an ounce, and the day rate postage stamp twelve reales silver Deposit per ounce,
and four real simple letter idem idem, more on this there are no Why stop, the postage is paid
as ordered lately, and therefore no claim whatsoever. It follows that the rent for all their
annual expenses paid only 25 per 100 of administration, three hundred
dollars on account of house, and one hundred dollars for a clerk:
these data should not lose sight.

HE Islands ruling. D. Eurile Pascual, settled on land communications the entire island of Luzon
in 1833, directed the first line to the southern provinces by through a weekly email that out
of Manila on Wednesday at noon, arrived at the point its destination on Sunday morning, through
the provinces of Laguna, Batangas, Tayabas, Camarines and Albay, to Naga, capital or head (as there is said)
in the province Camarines Sur.

This point came out another email on Thursday, meeting in the way of correspondence from the
same provinces, came to Manila on Thursday morning.

That this communication was provided to establish a service of great importance, nobody doubt,
but it is also true that the correspondence of these five provinces was and always will so little bulk
and value, it does not deserve indicated.

Established and organized this line of communication, after a few obstacles to It opposed, formed
another to the north, passing through the provinces of Bulacan, Pampanga, Pangasinan, Ilocos
Sur, Ilocos Norte and Cagayan, with which communication was established weekly the entire island
of Luzon: more letters to this email no lien was imposed because very While the Manila government
knew that this e inside any profit could be drawn as that all correspondence
is reduced to leading a dozen letters from trade, and parts of the
mayors and other employees to their bosses, and nothing else.

So you see, that attention to the mail of land is not necessary that new office, because revenues
can not offset its establishment expenditure demand.

Budgets these records, which are the true story of the beginning and progress of rent post in Manila,
is for them that attention to the new internal mail is not necessary, as stated, the new office,
and with regard to maritime mail, not was of absolute necessity that reform was enacted, because
only advantage to tax to the treasury, and depriving him of income without the new spending
would have, because if you created an administrator with 35,000 rs., an auditor with 20.000, and
what do I know that other assignments by reason of home office expenses, is just that this administration
is not out of the General-competent number of junior and provincial banks, with managers, supervisors,
young guards, Balikh drivers, & c., but where do we go with this way of creating costs and nothing
else? Is possible that on an income that can not produce to keep the main office is wanted to
create such allocation and fixed salaries, when products are limited and temporary? and not
having, not say for sure, but even likely that their incomes rise, because no items for this: do
not be real and effective harm the public treasury? and is not be prudent, necessary and fair
to avoid it? seemed so regular, but the fact is that although on scarce and potential yields are
sent to establish the new office, with assignments fixed and wasteful, which does not say much
in harmony with the good and economic administration of public funds, because if they wanted
to reform the post office in the Philippines it means for employees have not been the best,
it should only be recognized by such those who set their administration and expenditure in
line with the performance, and cautious opportunity any harm that could act in any other way and
detract followed national interests. Not done so unfortunately the founding of the new office, and time
justified, if and to this date he has not established that it suffered
a serious mistake and harmful to national interests, as can be seen
as related.

Turning now to show that it is less damaging to trade and neighborhood Philippines reflections
are brought by the following reasoning.

It seems, according to come to understand that in theory, and to start the approval of this new
office, have included large new revenue to be given to income, for which it The main dock,
where all correspondence of any kind comes to the Philippines will
lead to mail and freight earned, wherever it comes from, with vessels
strangers then delivered the letters, then, and this is where you
find mainly the loss of that trade and neighborhood, as will be demonstrated.

The

application of the postmasters in the Philippines for all letters coming from abroad and on ships
of the same was taken to his office and earned behave like other conducted by Spanish vessels
is not new, and even had to request transport manager double, but this is not the case: the
fact is that since the Philippines began to mail regularized, administrators did all the pretension
to his income above, having put more than once in execution, and always has been withdrawn: that has
been otherwise? no reach another reason to bring in response, but the effect on trade was
effective, if it were not so, the measure was adopted and had continued when he came to be established;
The opposite has happened, then the consequence is lejítima, which was harmful and costly trade. About
it is more than one expedient, that are brought to the hearing and review, and will be the
just reasons for the trade nswers Manila to resist such determination; resistance was always
greeted and approved by the Government. Among them will be found that in August 1797 in Manila espidió
a decree preventing any new development was not done in particular, and then repeated at different
times so; but more especially in 1819 it was agreed by that government, after hearing the
prosecutor and counsel gentlemen, and voting top advisory board of finance, innovation certainly cease
to be had fact lead to mail correspondence from foreign countries and ships same class and national
came to the islands, observing the practice up there soon, As warned in the superior decree
of August 16, 1797, all as requested Manila by several neighbors and members of the consulate.

This
exposition, in her view of the fiscal relapse of MS, opinion of counsel, an advisory vote
the superior board of finance, and decree provided on their agreement, all this justifies that
about not being of great use to the Treasury this discretion, is
harmful to one extremity trade.

Also brought to this place deserves the report of the Manila consulate February 5, 1833, in which
indicates "who brought the serious difficulties and the novelty had
said, and actual damages that would be born new trade by the lien
being imposed, and little astray safe unless their replies to the
correspondence they received.

"

Lately, in this particular must occupy a preferred place Government consultation Manila July
17, 1834 and the reasons supporting it, because in addition to the
visible damage irrogaria which to trade, trade adds that taxed abroad,
this could make same with ours, as has already happened, if that refers
to the same query.

Now Well, if these thoughts, but Thin, documents taken from blameless, and may not be reproof
of suspects, such as the above, addressed to Spain on the decision in Philippines by those authorities
in the expedients of the model, prove the actual damage of that trade, and the disadvantages that
are pressed to give that income to rent, single that can be counted for promotion, "to which
we abide, not venturing anything to avoid errors and exposes the interest income? What data may
be the most luminous certainty and to reform, albeit in a small establishment, and if possible give
greater expanse and promote their income, or at least keep those who have? and what reasons
more weight may be the case, and that from Manila have been established with knowledge of which
is the country and accredited by a constant practice experience, or those who in theory have
been able to devise and propose in Madrid? Anyone will be judged impartially by first, because
the esperiencia at all times and ages has been said and they say, is the teacher, the standard
and best rule, almost infallible, of making reforms in all probability, not that certainty, the
happy results and ensure success in everything that theories to step Always have damaged,
and some restitution impossible. Had this been present what is said and documents cited, perhaps
the reform would have done otherwise, and as exijian income needs, without taxing so strong as
it was.

In conclusion should not be spared to bring this place another reflection of no less weight to
purpose behind these observations. This is that if you look at the establishment of the new office
as a new duty, tax or contribution, it appears nothing according to the fundamental law for having
verified without knowledge and disposition of the courts, only they
can agree taxes, remove the set, and create again, according to the
needs of the state, then when that was done and the Constitution vijente
Reji.

The Philippines has never been regulated the communication inside the country, and less correspondence
with the stranger in his own ships, trade, the neighbors all looked on their Manila means to establish
and maintain their communities and in the interior and abroad, and though interrupted, and sometimes
far behind, is very accommodating as best they could.

Was established later, as we have said, that government by constant communication throughout week the mainland
of the island of Luzon, but not to tax it to anyone, and without care for it to make any profit
because the government knew what I could negligible and insignificant be, and so established the internal
mail weekly in both lines in a disinterested this cooperation to all classes of authority, from the
captain to the last General-mayor, without forgetting the mayors, who weighed on the main care
and responsibility as they were in charge of exercising the functions of case managers, pick
and giving direction, and distributing correspondence. All, therefore, cooperate with zeal
and disinterestedness the achievement of establishing the weekly communication, so useful and
advantageous for many titles the government and trade. Now if that communication in such an established Power
generator, the gravel is now with the poise that point to each letter rate that is established,
when all you can produce is so insignificant, is not therefore that such a measure to cause trouble?
Is not easy to form the idea and create some that this is to establish a tax, whose name alone could
be sufficient to produce sponge concerns the public tranquility? therefore, mean that interest
should be postponed to the desire to keep the public peace as unalterable as it always has
been, and therefore should be terminated is not reached for reform as it was agreed and ordered,
by contrary and burdensome to the national interests and damaging to trade and other inhabitants
of those islands.

ADDENDUM: should show those who say that not having an accurate knowledge bases about what is left
for the reform, and data that could support the establishment of the new office which was sent,
not having seen the expedient of reference should not be judged reluctance of malicious interpretation
or any inaccuracy in the observations notare made, to which it moved
only a desire to contribute to the better resolution and accuracy
in the most economical administration of the interest income of as
little product and performance and seek to trade and the Philippines
neighborhood relief or tax burden to be imposed, according to which
all came to learn from what we saw on this question in reporters on
his arrival at Madrid, and whose articles, as conducive to illustrate
these ideas, copied below.

Eco Trade on Tuesday December 26, 1837 moved the following observations.

A subscriber asks us to give rise to the following lines.

It says, although with Sijil that réjimen and administration for the miserable post income of
the Philippines has created a great office and made a pompous boasting advantages regulation
that time and events the imajinarias denounce, and warned that without observing the in the recent
Royal orders dated by the Ministry of Interior to send publish vacancies,
have been named two favorites, one with 35,000 rs. annual salary and
6,000 for home and another with 20,000.

There is no reason for hiding, and if history should demonstrate that since the mid last century have
rejido the field, subject, gentlemen publishers that vds. will serve illustrate the point, because
having to preside over the most severe economy in the administration of state revenues, the
allocation and repugnant consequences on low fixed salary Any products, and clashes with the
administration of that system, that even when erect In happier times long gone under the eventual
character that was, and never enjoyed their managers, nor should
enjoy another salary that the percentage of performance.

If you are certain advantages to be favorites to get appointed as an effect of communications
results promised to be open, why not have the same concept is the administrator to whom they
are going to rob, but its merits and the progress that has been rent?

Hardly gave rules for the administration of post Manila towards the year 1762 under the dependence
of the principal of Mexico, began to touch the serious difficulties offered its establishment
in 1767.
 Inevitably will those who drink our almond tea, in order
to have an opportunity of judging the value of the appointments of the house, pass the jesting
remark that while the Lings assuredly have 'a dead person's bones in the secret chamber,' at
the present they will not have one in the family graveyard by reason of the death of Ling himself.
Better to lose a thousand limbs during life than the entire person after death; nor would your
adoring Mian hesitate to clasp proudly to her organ of affection the veriest trunk that had
parted with all its attributes in a noble and sacrificing endeavour to preserve at least some
dignified proportions to embellish the Ancestral Temple and to receive the worship of posterity."

"Alas!" replied Ling, with extravagant humiliation, "it is indeed true; and this person is
degraded beyond the common lot of those who break images and commit thefts from sacred places.
The side of the transaction which is at present engaging our attention never occurred to this
superficial individual until now."

"Wise and incomparable one," said Mian, in no degree able to restrain the fountains of bitter
water which clouded her delicate and expressive eyes, "in spite of this person's biting and
ungracious words do not, she makes a formal petition, doubt the deathless strength of her affection.
Cheerfully, in order to avert the matter in question, or even to save her lover the anguish
of unavailing and soul-eating remorse, would she consign herself to a badly-constructed and
slow-consuming fire or expose her body to various undignified tortures. Happy are those even
to whom is left a little ash to be placed in a precious urn and diligently guarded, for it,
in any event, truly represents all that is left of the once living person, whereas after an
honourable and spotless existence my illustrious but unthinking lord will be blended with a
variety of baser substances and passed from hand to hand, his immaculate organs serving to
reward murderers for their deeds and to tempt the weak and vicious to all manner of unmentionable
crimes."

So overcome was Ling by the distressing nature of the oversight he had permitted that he could
find no words with which to comfort Mian, who, after some moments, continued:

"There are even worse visions of degradation which occur to this person. By chance, that which
was once the noble-minded Ling may be disposed of, not to the Imperial Treasury for converting
into pieces of exchange, but to some undiscriminating worker in metals who will fashion out
of his beautiful and symmetrical stomach an elegant food-dish, so that from the ultimate developments
of the circumstance may arise the fact that his own descendants, instead of worshipping him,
use his internal organs for this doubtful if not absolutely unclean purpose, and thereby suffer
numerous well-merited afflictions, to the end that the finally-despised Ling and this discredited
person, instead of founding a vigorous and prolific generation, become the parents of a line
of feeble-minded and physically-depressed lepers."

"Oh, my peacock-eyed one!" exclaimed Ling, in immeasurable distress, "so proficient an exhibition
of virtuous grief crushes this misguided person completely to the ground. Rather would he uncomplainingly
lose his pigtail than--"

"Such a course," said a discordant voice, as the unpresentable person Wang stepped forth from
behind a hanging curtain, where, indeed, he had stood concealed during the entire conversation,
"is especially forbidden by the twenty-third detail of the things to be done and not to be done."

"What new adversity is this?" cried Mian, pressing to Ling with a still closer embrace. "Having
disposed of your incomparable body after death, surely an adequate amount of liberty and seclusion
remains to us during life."

"Nevertheless," interposed the dog-like Wang, "the refined person in question must not attempt
to lose or to dispose of his striking and invaluable pigtail; for by such an action he would
be breaking through his spoken and written word whereby he undertook to be ruled by the things
to be done and not to be done; and he would also be robbing the ingenious-minded Chang-ch'un."

"Alas!" lamented the unhappy Ling, "that which appeared to be the end of all this person's
troubles is obviously simply the commencement of a new and more extensive variety. Understand,
O conscientious but exceedingly inopportune Wang, that the words which passed from this person's
mouth did not indicate a fixed determination, but merely served to show the unfeigned depth
of his emotion. Be content that he has no intention of evading the definite principles of the
things to be done and not to be done, and in the meantime honour this commonplace establishment
by retiring to the hot and ill-ventilated chamber, and there partaking of a suitable repast
which shall be prepared without delay."

When Wang had departed, which he did with somewhat unseemly haste, Ling made an end of recording
his narrative, which Mian's grief had interrupted. In this way he explained to her the reason
of Wang's presence, and assured her that by reason of the arrangement he had made with that
person, his near existence would not be so unsupportable to them as might at first appear to
be the case.

While they were still conversing together, and endeavouring to divert their minds from the
objectionable facts which had recently come within their notice, an attendant entered and disclosed
that the train of servants and merchandise which Ling had preceded on the journey was arriving.
At this fresh example of her lover's consistent thought for her, Mian almost forgot her recent
agitation, and eagerly lending herself to the entrancing occupation of unfolding and displaying
the various objects, her brow finally lost the last trace of sadness. Greatly beyond the imaginings
of anticipation were the expensive articles with which Ling proudly surrounded her; and in
examining and learning the cost of the set jewels and worked metals, the ornamental garments
for both persons, the wood and paper appointments for the house--even incenses, perfumes, spices
and rare viands had not been forgotten--the day was quickly and profitably spent.

When the hour of sunset arrived, Ling, having learned that certain preparations which he had
commanded were fully carried out, took Mian by the hand and led her into the chief apartment
of the house, where were assembled all the followers and attendants, even down to the illiterate
and superfluous Wang. In the centre of the room upon a table of the finest ebony stood a vessel
of burning incense, some dishes of the most highly-esteemed fruit, and an abundance of old
and very sweet wine. Before these emblems Ling and Mian placed themselves in an attitude of
deep humiliation, and formally expressed their gratitude to the Chief Deity for having called
them into existence, to the cultivated earth for supplying them with the means of sustaining
life, to the Emperor for providing the numerous safeguards by which their persons were protected
at all times, and to their parents for educating them. This adequate ceremony being completed,
Ling explicitly desired all those present to observe the fact that the two persons in question
were, by that fact and from that time, made as one being, and the bond between them, incapable
of severance.

When the ruling night-lantern came out from among the clouds, Ling and Mian became possessed
of a great desire to go forth with pressed hands and look again on the forest paths and glades
in which they had spent many hours of exceptional happiness before Ling's journey to Canton.
Leaving the attendants to continue the feasting and drum-beating in a completely unrestrained
manner, they therefore passed out unperceived, and wandering among the trees, presently stood
on the banks of the Heng-Kiang.

"Oh, my beloved!" exclaimed Mian, gazing at the brilliant and unruffled water, "greatly would
this person esteem a short river journey, such as we often enjoyed together in the days when
you were recovering."

Ling, to whom the expressed desires of Mian were as the word of the Emperor, instantly prepared
the small and ornamental junk which was fastened near for this purpose, and was about to step
in, when a presumptuous and highly objectionable hand restrained him.

"Behold," remarked a voice which Ling had some difficulty in ascribing to any known person,
so greatly had it changed from its usual tone, "behold how the immature and altogether too-inferior
Ling observes his spoken and written assertions!"

At this low-conditioned speech, Ling drew his well-tempered sword without further thought,
in spite of the restraining arms of Mian, but at the sight of the utterly incapable person
Wang, who stood near smiling meaninglessly and waving his arms with a continuous and backward
motion, he again replaced it.

"Such remarks can be left to fall unheeded from the lips of one who bears every indication
of being steeped in rice spirit," he said with unprovoked dignity.

"It will be the plain duty of this expert and uncorruptible person to furnish the unnecessary,
but, nevertheless, very severe and self-opinionated Chang-ch'un with a written account of how
the traitorous and deceptive Ling has endeavoured to break through the thirty-fourth vessel
of the liquids to be consumed and not to be consumed," continued Wang with increased deliberation
and an entire absence of attention to Ling's action and speech, "and how by this refined person's
unfailing civility and resourceful strategy he has been frustrated."

"Perchance," said Ling, after examining his thoughts for a short space, and reflecting that
the list of things to be done and not to be done was to him as a blank leaf, "there may even
be some small portion of that which is accurate in his statement. In what manner," he continued,
addressing the really unendurable person, who was by this time preparing to pass the night
in the cool swamp by the river's edge, "does this one endanger any detail of the written and
sealed parchment by such an action?"

"Inasmuch," replied Wang, pausing in the process of removing his outer garments, "as the seventy-ninth--the
intricate name given to it escapes this person's tongue at the moment--but the ninety-seventh--experLingknowswhamean--provides
that any person, with or without, attempting or not avoiding to travel by sea, lake, or river,
or to place himself in such a position as he may reasonably and intelligently be drowned in
salt water, fresh water, or--or honourable rice spirit, shall be guilty of, and suffer--complete
loss of memory." With these words the immoderate and contemptible person sank down in a very
profound slumber.

"Alas!" said Ling, turning to Mian, who stood near, unable to retire even had she desired,
by reason of the extreme agitation into which the incident had thrown her delicate mind and
body, "how intensely aggravating a circumstance that we are compelled to entertain so dissolute
a one by reason of this person's preoccupation when the matter was read. Nevertheless, it is
not unlikely that the detail he spoke of was such as he insisted, to the extent of making it
a thing not to be done to journey in any manner by water. It shall be an early endeavour of
this person to get these restraining details equitably amended; but in the meantime we will
retrace our footsteps through the wood, and the enraptured Ling will make a well-thought-out
attempt to lighten the passage by a recital of his recently-composed verses on the subject
of 'Exile from the Loved One; or, Farewell and Return.'"

XIV

"My beloved lord!" said Mian sadly, on a morning after many days had passed since the return
of Ling, "have you not every possession for which the heart of a wise person searches? Yet
the dark mark is scarcely ever absent from your symmetrical brow. If she who stands before
you, and is henceforth an integral part of your organization, has failed you in any particular,
no matter how unimportant, explain the matter to her, and the amendment will be a speedy and
a joyful task."

It was indeed true that Ling's mind was troubled, but the fault did not lie with Mian, as the
person in question was fully aware, for before her eyes as before those of Ling the unevadable
compact which had been entered into with Chang-ch'un was ever present, insidiously planting
bitterness within even the most select and accomplished delights. Nor with increasing time
did the obstinate and intrusive person Wang become more dignified in his behaviour; on the
contrary, he freely made use of his position to indulge in every variety of abandonment, and
almost each day he prevented, by reason of his knowledge of the things to be done and not to
be done, some refined and permissible entertainment upon which Ling and Mian had determined.
Ling had despatched many communications upon this subject to Chang-ch'un, praying also that
some expert way out of the annoyance of the lesser and more unimportant things not to be done
should be arrived at, but the time when he might reasonably expect an answer to these written
papers had not yet arrived.

It was about this period that intelligence was brought to Ling from the villages on the road
to Peking, how Li Keen, having secretly ascertained that his Yamen was standing and his goods
uninjured, had determined to return, and was indeed at that hour within a hundred li of Si-chow.
Furthermore, he had repeatedly been understood to pronounce clearly that he considered Ling
to be the head and beginning of all his inconveniences, and to declare that the first act of
justice which he should accomplish on his return would be to submit the person in question
to the most unbearable tortures, and then cause him to lose his head publicly as an outrager
of the settled state of things and an enemy of those who loved tranquillity. Not doubting that
Li Keen would endeavour to gain an advantage by treachery if the chance presented itself, Ling
determined to go forth to meet him, and without delay settle the entire disturbance in one
well-chosen and fatally-destructive encounter. To this end, rather than disturb the placid
mind of Mian, to whom the thought of the engagement would be weighted with many disquieting
fears, he gave out that he was going upon an expedition to surprise and capture certain fish
of a very delicate flavour, and attended by only two persons, he set forth in the early part
of the day.

Some hours later, owing to an ill-considered remark on the part of the deaf attendant, to whom
the matter had been explained in an imperfect light, Mian became possessed of the true facts
of the case, and immediately all the pleasure of existence went from her. She despaired of
ever again beholding Ling in an ordinary state, and mournfully reproached herself for the bitter
words which had risen to her lips when the circumstance of his condition and the arrangement
with Chang-ch'un first became known to her. After spending an interval in a polished lament
at the manner in which things were inevitably tending, the thought occurred to Mian whether
by any means in her power she could influence the course and settled method of affairs. In
this situation the memory of the person Wang, and the fact that on several occasions he had
made himself objectionable when Ling had proposed to place himself in such a position that
he incurred some very remote chance of death by drowning or by fire, recurred to her. Subduing
the natural and pure-minded repulsion which she invariably experienced at the mere thought
of so debased an individual, she sought for him, and discovering him in the act of constructing
cardboard figures of men and animals, which it was his custom to dispose skilfully in little-frequented
paths for the purpose of enjoying the sudden terror of those who passed by, she quickly put
the matter before him, urging him, by some means, to prevent the encounter, which must assuredly
cost the life of the one whom he had so often previously obstructed from incurring the slightest
risk. Will you go? Do you saved?
- Muttered impatiently time that lit another match.

Which face of Sorrows: children, contracted, tormented by a dark pain, barely conscious!

- I want to save! I want to save! - "His voice was sobbing, clinging desperately to my arm like
a lifeline.

We got to the room of Don Guillén. She did not go ahead, and I had
to do it myself.

My intention was to leave it in and retire quietly to my barracks. Against my purpose I had
to witness the beginning of the scene, because it developed suddenly and then because, in spite
of myself, and still remained gripped by the anticipation.

Anxieties fell at the feet of Don Guillen. Embraced them, foreshortened neck albo ductile, they
are watered with tears, they are lean with abundant hair and coppery. And the image is reproduced
with online emotional naive and drafted the translucent inks holy
melodies of the breviary.

- Sorry!

Sorry! - Implored Sorrows, in the spotless innocence of his soul -.

I'm very bad but I wanted anyone but you. I lost love, the despair
of love.

I'll tell you and forgive me.

Don Guillen, pale, stiff, stuttering, asked: - Get up, sister!

Anxieties due as a passive creature. Then Don Guillen knelt before her.

- You're clean. All your sins are turned against me. You and God are those who must forgive me,
and forgive me, for I have loved and suffered greatly.

Say you forgive me, gave a qualified yes lips a nod, but not from the heart.

- A thousand times yes - Angus said with a gasp, waving in the air their hair.

Don Guillen ground rose up and rushed Sorrows in her arms, tending towards he parched lips, her
head fell to the back, as inert. Don Guillen gently straightened her head and kissed his forehead.

I
realized it was the right time to retire the sly, stealthily and
turned on my heels when I heard that Don Guillén, with an accent between
alarmed and severe, he said:

- What are you doing?

Wait a moment, I have to ask a favor.

It is necessary help me to improvise an accommodation where my sister rest for several hours.
If you have in your room couch, or even a chair, I can sleep there if you do not mind, and Angus
is in this room.

Arrange the accommodation as Don Guillen wanted. By their express wishes and decided, lay on my couch.
The couch was next to the partition walls between my room and hers. Across the wall, leaned
the bed where I lay Sorrows.

Lying and Don Guillen told me from his couch:

- The most immediate and urgent and I have it decided.

Within a few hours, the first train Sorrows will Castrofuerte way,
with a letter to Don Abel Parras, an old canon, fat, peaceful and
good-natured, my best friend.

Anguish will live with him, and thus impede malignant gossip. Later, we'll see what we do ....
In thesaurus repository ...; the lost drachma has been restored to
the king's treasure and the pearl looks again, taken from darkness
to light.

If the unhappy Mrs. Basilisa not think change the will! ... Oh, what a beautiful background to the service
of men, which is the service of God ...

With the knuckles gave a slight ringing in the wall.

Answered another ring cautious.

Burst laughing, turning to face me.

- Have not you heard what we said?

I said no, dimly, because the dream I surrender.

- As I said, 'Sleep in peace, sister, has risen with the Lord.

"She said," God bless you, keep me forever.

"

"What insight! Have been granted the gift of tongues, as if instead of Easter Pentecost was,
I thought dimly, from the initial darkness of sleep.

And from very deep in my consciousness melting point guard, I said, I reckon it aloud:

- The gift of tongues! The Pentecost!

I woke up at two in the afternoon. Don Guillén had disappeared from the couch and Madrid. About
my table stood a white writing that read: "Goodbye, good friend. I've given a hug thanks and farewell,
without you, sound asleep, he has noticed. Already know you from me. Forever friend, Pedro Guillén
Caramanzana. "

And, in fact, years later, I knew and witnessed great things from him, which I refer On another occasion,
if the opportunity arises and I have nothing better to do.

CHAPTER VIII.

Sub specie Aeterni.

It is Easter Sunday. Time: just before noon. Location: in the vicinity City of Pillars. It is
a northern spring day. Earth and sky, two by female. The earth, and dense evergreen, is groomed
and Alinda prodigiously and did not shave or use other water composure and wintry snows. On cloth
Verdegay, graceful folds and lobes, with dresses that mother earth provided maid has been,
here and there, some flowery orchards, candid ornament. The sky is so gentle, pure and happy,
like pre-pubescent schoolgirl, wearing apparel and Sunday May; mild crinolines snowfall, which
shines through a blue silk background.

From the village discerned the city, shell covering a hill, as scaled breastplate lying on a torso
armor, armor wrought copper and iron, battered and, at intervals dirty gold, reddish gray in
places, a greenish stretches from the years corrosion and rust. On one side leaves the tower
of the cathedral, as Lance chipped, still stands firm under armpit. Gurgling sound and bells
ring.

From the city, up the road, up a fat man was red and sweaty, which looks at the morning sun,
a matte silver knob, and aluminum.

Follow her another man and a young boy, both of the white coat, each with baskets on her head.

- Sacrebleu, Sacrebleu - swears the fat man and crimson, in time to wipe the bleeding from the forehead
-.

Come, Nolo, that I have need for trust, and is so much better to find a loyal heart than monologue.
Oh, my God, I'm tired ...!

I tired of the patron saint of my beloved wife. The women in my country
are saving.

I love saving women, good management.

But my wife is already much too thrifty; very much, very much.

I head into my business and work like a donkey after morning to night to earn good money, but
I love me good money for good life and feed my degree.

This is already what I have. Voilà - slapping his stomach - this friend is very demanding. But
the landlady she does not eat, or eat like a little bird, she believes
that all other habemos not need to eat as it is needed.

Well, for eat in my own house I must invent some mystification. Is not it amazing and rather
unpleasant? For now, even in this way. That I'm tired ...! I'll tell you what has me the other
day, that day was thin, how say ye?, day vigil. I love salmon, but my wife does not buy salmon,
because it is expensive.

Then I myself was the market and bought a magnificent salmon for sixty pesetas, and the beautiful
fish I sent my house, as if he were a gift from a friend, on the
contrary, if she knows I I will have purchased, my wife makes a terrible
quarrel.

Behold, I am going to my house all happy, saying to me today as my
pleasure salmon.

My wife greets me with kisses of love, and she whispers, we have
good luck, they have made us a beautiful gift of a salmon too large,
which, as we would not have eaten, I've sold for forty pesetas.

Sacrebleu: no salmon, and twenty pesetas less.

What do you say?

- I give it a go away locally termed pa life like it's getting back to Pescadero.

- Voila. In this country men are little cultivated. You should not beat women, or even at the
sake of food, let alone because of other reasons unimportant infidelity
for example.

- Caracho! - Said the call Nolo -.

That food, go, but what is that. The pareceríame death recently.

-
Ah!

"Kill you? That's different. It is a beast, but I understand.

- Why Diana kill myself ...! Kill her ....

- My God, you're wild ...!

- No, sir. O Nah, you require or demand a woman, and if gets out, stick. O Nah, you paste,
or it sticks. Nah, you remember what the poor Bellarmine.

- What do I say? But is that the poor Xuantipa Bellarmine was unfaithful? I ignored.

- You win, you may not lacking. What I am saying is that, as Bellarmine could not cure his wife,
when held, with syrup ash, there is no better melecina pa the big women, then, fixed, that his wife had always
atosigao him and cure pa therefore Nah, you know, I gave poultice on the backs each stake ....

-
Yeah, I know. The poor man, my dear friend .... I miss it less, since which is enshrined there
in the asylum who you say maletería; name truly comical.

- Not maletería; is malatería.

- Is not it the same thing?

- No, sir.

- So what do you mean malatería?

- Curse if I know.

- That does nothing. But the beloved Revenga Bellarmine. I can not do without it. I I come to visit
every week or fortnight for ten years, in spite of this costs abominable that I must climb
to get. He never spoke, he never speaks. Is sweetest of souls, and I argue that a great intelligence.

-
A wimp, stupid, like the other, Apolonio ....

- Shut up, Nolo.

You do not understand. Bellarmine is a great man. And Apollonius, it is also another great
man. I want to show how much they love and admire them. That is why they I have these thick Easter
cakes and thick custard sources, and many dozens thick cakes, like other years, so many of them,
on this day.

- That will eat greedy nuns and other inmates, like other years, this
same day.

- Ah, of course!

But the cakes are in Belarmino and Apolonio, and they enjoy invite
more than being invited.

They've always given everything and have not wanted anything for them. I was not trying to Apollonius
once, only after being in the asylum. Very interesting, very interesting. It is a curious thing,
Apollonius would not treat me Bellarmine. He hates, that is, he thinks hates him. Very funny. But
Bellarmine does care if I try to Apollonius. He disdains, that is, he believes that he disdains.
Spicy situation. I have a need for great tact. But it all is so extraordinary, so extraordinary
.... Belarmino I love most, this is not to say, he is an old friend. But I love you too Apollonius.
Here we are now in the asylum. Remember, the employer can not know that habemos brought this
gift. She would make a great scandal.

Mysterious gravitation Colignon going to Bellarmine.

Is vulgar error to suppose that the force of gravity brings down the bodies. This fall involves
the notion of up and down, and in infinite space there is no up or down, the bodies and souls
sometimes rise and others fall down upwards.

The latter is what Epicurean Colignon happening to that, between gasps and hot flashes, going
back regularly costs asylum, attracted by the ascetic Bellarmine
ie falling, no will, going up to him.

Colignon rather old-looking and, penetrates, with his party at the
hall of asylum, an elongated piece of bare walls, with four helpless
straw saddles.

Front in front of the door, there is a bracket on the wall of pine, over it, a statuette, unhappy,
San Jose, cardboard, at the foot of the saint, half a dozen beans, chickpeas and half a dozen a bottle
with an olive, dense liquid, and a label says: Azeite. These holy gifts in kind to indicate that what
appears to spare, is precisely what is lacking in the asylum, so
that they know that charitable souls there seldom fall to meet in
a work of mercy, and that their gifts are the most have been necessary
in the poor house.

Tinkling, farther and farther away, a bell, voice cracked and old.

Through a door, painted black, comes an old nun, warning that is skeletal, despite Haldudo
faldamento, mummified the face. His eyes, bulky and tired, they revive a point to see Mr. Collignon,
running to meet him with outstretched hands.

- Ah! Felicita Felicita nice.

- Sister of Dolores, Mr. Colignon - corrects the nun.

- True, true. But I can not forget.

- We must forget, and if we can not forget, we seem like we've forgotten - says sister, nun anointing
and emphasis of nostalgia, as implying that, despite everything, has not forgotten. What had
to forget the sad Felicita! Above all, the cooling Colignon memory and disturbs the chest of
the sister of Dolores. These effects occur without French intention or guilt, just because of
their obesity. As viejucos asylees, and Beaton also all who go there to visit are, without exception,
lean people, each Once the sister of Dolores sees a fat man, imagine having before it the love and
Novillo spoiled, and feel again the old Felicita. Is now with his eyes obstinately humiliated,
not to get in them the image of the abdomen, round and damn evocative Mr. Collignon.

- But, my God - the newcomer exclaims laughing - which already Nah, you will be very difficult to
forget and hide .... This is a branch of the Rua Ruera other times. Bellarmine is here, Apolonio
is here, the usurer is here, you 're here. I'm only missing, and I'm here now. All others who are
not coming to the rendez-vous is because they are dead and the eternity of nothingness.

- Oh! - Sighs sister, without raising his eyes, against all rules of good sigh -. The people
here are also dead and watched the world from the perspective of eternity.

- What an idea! But still eat cakes. Meanwhile we can eat cake, God be blessed .-- Y Colignon
laughs as always with trepidation Glog turkey and stomach. I continued .-- I needed here as
beans and peas and oil.

All the better to eat cakes.

- God will reward you, sir Colignon. Leave before the sun came out today that you appear Easter
with entertainment. The old man, for eight days, smacking taste in advance, and do not talk about
anything but the rich Mr. Colignon jams. How little is needed to make the happiness of others!

-
Well not much, three kilos of flour, three kilos of sugar, three dozen eggs, three two sticks
of cinnamon and vanilla. But it appears that those who invite the poor little I'm not old, but
it is their peers Belarmino and Apolonio.

- How little is needed for happiness, and how he almost never comes to that little ...!-- says
yes the sister of Dolores, without referring, of course, to the flour, sugar and eggs, since
there was no standing attention in the reply from the French, but was absorbed in their thoughts.
Leaving him, adds: - to leave here these baskets. And will pick them up. Go, Mr. Colignon, to see
their friends, until the time of the refectory.

You know the road. Are in the garden, for sure, waiting with impatience.

Colignon runs hallways, where smells of trash, and leaves the so-called garden a garden without
flowers that some daffodils. It is an expanse of prairie, the prairie, cut by sandy tracks,
on sidewalks, wooden benches, canopy banks, the tops of the acacias. There are a breath of damp
earth.

Shines a dim and yellow sun melts forms and turns into a hint huidera and intangible, it is unknown
if dawn or dusk, and noon, a golden vapor blurring the boundaries
and melts things flowing and unit undecided, we do not know if it's
memory or hope. Elysian light. Each time Mr. Collignon, so carnal
and concrete, overlooks the garden, stepping on the edge is given
first the Champs Elysees, inhabited by disembodied images of those
who were and are no longer, of those who left in the solid earth,
home of the gentle pleasures, and do not retain but the appearance
of life, and with it the age-old passions, because passions are the
soul and the soul is indestructible. The moist breath of the earth
it gets up to Colignon bones, and experience a deep chill.

But this
is just what you like, enter for a few moments in a kind of beyond
or world of illusion and memory, to bask in their curious villagers
and certainty that there are also eaten cakes, and that he, although
within that mock the grave, can go as he pleases and return to the
delights of physiological and eventful life.

So Colignon looming
in the garden, the old, scattered on either side, come to him, with
faltering steps and labored, as in dreams, when movements are hindrance
impeded by heavy and invisible. One, especially, lingers. Comes with
step majestic and indifferent mood, determined to show no vulgar haste:
it is Apollonius. Just another remains in place, far away, sitting
on a bench, having greeted the Colignon with a slight gesture of the
hand is Bellarmine. Belarmino and Apolonio are substantially younger
than the rest of the inmates.

A nun, keeper of that herd of decrepit
men, walking down one of the paths transverse, and manages to cross
the Apollonius Roncero. The nun is Sister Lucidia. Nothing old, nor
any younger .... On the right side of the face, taking him from temple
to the corner of the lips, and all through the cheek, has - since
he was born - a crimson stain, tentacular profile as a brand new track
slap, a blow that, before out to life, gave him the destination. Lucidia
sister always has her head bowed on the right side, as if he would
not like that shame, as if trying to hide or if the other cheek, pale
and intact, with the adversity of the aggressive providence. That
spot, which seems smeared with red grape skins for a lewd hand satyr
in delirium bucolic vintage suggests a tragic love story, intimate
and sealed. The nun must have been pretty, despite the embarrassing
spot, and even more so cute, because of the stain to a passionate
spirit and prone to dramatic emotions, such as is that of Apollonius.
Apollonius about the nun, and content with fire, because if any spy
not notice, he whispers:

- Angel Comforter of my soul! I adore you,
I love you night and day. Are the pair comfort and sorrow, brilliance
and pale, like the sky. Day and night, oddly, are represented in your
beautiful face. On this side is calm and without reproach, deathly
pale, Diana, the night. On the other side is red and on, like Apollo,
fiery life father. Oh terrible fight! Penile joy or, as I look at
the fiery side, and the watchman, and looking at your face, night
and day pass the hours of my life.

- Mr Apolonio, let's couplets.
When I talk like he wants to ask me something, I know experience.

CHAPTER II. THE STORY OF YUNG CHANG

  Narrated by Kai Lung, in the open space of the tea-shop of The
  Celestial Principles, at Wu-whei.

Thus adjured, the more leisurely-minded drew near to hear the history of Yung Chang. There
was Sing You the fruit-seller, and Li Ton-ti the wood-carver; Hi Seng left his clients to cry
in vain for water; and Wang Yu, the idle pipe-maker, closed his shop of "The Fountain of Beauty,"
and hung on the shutter the gilt dragon to keep away customers in his absence. These, together
with a few more shopkeepers and a dozen or so loafers, constituted a respectable audience by
the time Kai Lung was ready.

"It would be more seemly if this ill-conditioned person who is now addressing such a distinguished
assembly were to reward his fine and noble-looking hearers for their trouble," apologized the
story-teller. "But, as the Book of Verses says, 'The meaner the slave, the greater the lord';
and it is, therefore, not unlikely that this majestic concourse will reward the despicable
efforts of their servant by handfuls of coins till the air appears as though filled with swarms
of locusts in the season of much heat. In particular, there is among this august crowd of Mandarins
one Wang Yu, who has departed on three previous occasions without bestowing the reward of a
single cash. If the feeble and covetous-minded Wang Yu will place within this very ordinary
bowl the price of one of his exceedingly ill-made pipes, this unworthy person will proceed."

"Vast chasms can be filled, but the heart of man never," quoted the pipe-maker in retort. "Oh,
most incapable of story-tellers, have you not on two separate occasions slept beneath my utterly
inadequate roof without payment?"

But he, nevertheless, deposited three cash in the bowl, and drew nearer among the front row
of the listeners.

"It was during the reign of the enlightened Emperor Tsing Nung," began Kai Lung, without further
introduction, "that there lived at a village near Honan a wealthy and avaricious maker of idols,
named Ti Hung. So skilful had he become in the making of clay idols that his fame had spread
for many li round, and idol-sellers from all the neighbouring villages, and even from the towns,
came to him for their stock. No other idol-maker between Honan and Nanking employed so many
clay-gatherers or so many modellers; yet, with all his riches, his avarice increased till at
length he employed men whom he called 'agents' and 'travellers,' who went from house to house
selling his idols and extolling his virtues in verses composed by the most illustrious poets
of the day. He did this in order that he might turn into his own pocket the full price of the
idols, grudging those who would otherwise have sold them the few cash which they would make.
Owing to this he had many enemies, and his army of travellers made him still more; for they
were more rapacious than the scorpion, and more obstinate than the ox. Indeed, there is still
the proverb, 'With honey it is possible to soften the heart of the he-goat; but a blow from
an iron cleaver is taken as a mark of welcome by an agent of Ti Hung.' So that people barred
the doors at their approach, and even hung out signs of death and mourning.

"Now, among all his travellers there was none more successful, more abandoned, and more valuable
to Ti Hung than Li Ting. So depraved was Li Ting that he was never known to visit the tombs
of his ancestors; indeed, it was said that he had been heard to mock their venerable memories,
and that he had jestingly offered to sell them to anyone who should chance to be without ancestors
of his own. This objectionable person would call at the houses of the most illustrious Mandarins,
and would command the slaves to carry to their masters his tablets, on which were inscribed
his name and his virtues. Reaching their presence, he would salute them with the greeting of
an equal, 'How is your stomach?' and then proceed to exhibit samples of his wares, greatly
overrating their value. 'Behold!' he would exclaim, 'is not this elegantly-moulded idol worthy
of the place of honour in this sumptuous mansion which my presence defiles to such an extent
that twelve basins of rose-water will not remove the stain? Are not its eyes more delicate
than the most select of almonds? and is not its stomach rounder than the cupolas upon the high
temple at Peking? Yet, in spite of its perfections, it is not worthy of the acceptance of so
distinguished a Mandarin, and therefore I will accept in return the quarter-tael, which, indeed,
is less than my illustrious master gives for the clay alone.'

"In this manner Li Ting disposed of many idols at high rates, and thereby endeared himself
so much to the avaricious heart of Ti Hung that he promised him his beautiful daughter Ning
in marriage.

"Ning was indeed very lovely. Her eyelashes were like the finest willow twigs that grow in
the marshes by the Yang-tse-Kiang; her cheeks were fairer than poppies; and when she bathed
in the Hoang Ho, her body seemed transparent. Her brow was finer than the most polished jade;
while she seemed to walk, like a winged bird, without weight, her hair floating in a cloud.
Indeed, she was the most beautiful creature that has ever existed."

"Now may you grow thin and shrivel up like a fallen lemon; but it is false!" cried Wang Yu,
starting up suddenly and unexpectedly. "At Chee Chou, at the shop of 'The Heaven-sent Sugar-cane,'
there lives a beautiful and virtuous girl who is more than all that. Her eyes are like the
inside circles on the peacock's feathers; her teeth are finer than the scales on the Sacred
Dragon; her--" 

That prompt and proper administration of justice is the first base of happiness, good order
and peace of all peoples of the world, no one can doubt, and that in any Astrea nation which
does not exercise his royal rule across the full of his power, not more that confusion and
disorder, serious evils of transcendence, of outrage and pain, is also a I really do not need
proof, being well known. Indeed, where justice does not prevail, nothing good can be: innocence is
no safe haven anywhere; seeds discord abound want to do, the barbarous law of force with tyranny
oppresses the weaker; and finally, how evil can afflict mortals, many are gathered in villages in
the realms, where benefits are unknown influences of justice.

Philippines, that precious jewel of the East, as it has been qualified and justice for other pens
before mine, it has throughout its extent the beneficial influence of Astrea, nor any the
readiness to desire it off: it is necessary to remove certain obstacles that will to be provided,
and to raise a total reform, as will be later, or taken other establishing enough to effect,
and this achieved, is the first step for the happiness of the Islands; industry remain as interesting
as the foot and form that is raised, is the largest obstacle to their prosperity, and impossible
to move one step forward, or it can have its good effects of laws, wiser, more just and far-sighted
they are. It will show: -

§. II.

LAND OF THE HEARING.

The high consideration and respect that the audience deserves Manila among the Indians, from even the tradition
among them, remembering those happy days when their magistrates visiting their provinces, and
they made during these visits as well to the people [1]. The judges guests were in fact more
severe than a judge, a friendly mediator in disputes of India, to compositions, celebrated transactions,
noted land boundaries, and even in terms of people, gave a sort of municipal ordinances that were
observed, and protejian against the abuse of the mayors, correjidores, and even knew in which
caused some priest, because as in these visits was not impose penalties, execute punishment,
nor adapted with violence, but minds together, cutting disagreements, and make disappear dissension
between families, between neighbors and even among peoples, these visits were truly a parental
visits and charity, and in them the Orijen High respect, consideration and appreciation of
the magistrates. Disappeared these visits, Like many other things that both prestijio acquired the
Spanish name, and with them a large element of many goods do not cause no harm: return to old
form and, about not being easy, nor would produce the goods as before, for reasons that about
being long enumerate, are of this place. However, to promote its restoration in the form given
limited powers and at certain periods, it would be an asset of incalculable
benefit and best consequences.

But the well of the Manila audience (say what they want their antagonists) I have a very convenient
for the disposition of the Indian Act, as to the amobilidad and time given to promotion of
their ministers, just scale should establish, found on the same grounds for the law, without
searching for others, some are very to everyone, that is, that not only is useful to reward
its magistrates, but also uprooted from friends and close relations that come in those countries where
long time resident. These friends of influence, if prejudicial to the administration line
of justice are in Manila an almost necessary for the short Spanish population [2], the absence
of any recreational or public distraction, and that with the laxity of the climate, and customs
and praise of the country, you enter a life spoiled and soft and loses that Enerji integrity
and European customs to the few years of residence in the Islands. Yes, the Philippines is
a country in which mental tasks and may be frequent or long; country that leans to leisure
and pleasure more than others, for its mild temperament produces all the lax habits behind
its climate, and even effeminate weakens the spirits, and cause the greater damage, the more
vivid are the passions, especially to youth.

But back to our purpose, although it is not strange to him the idea issued.

The audience of Manila has sought at all times with more or less effectively give further impetus
to the administration of justice in the islands with vast territory, but the effects never have
responded to their good wishes, because there are natural obstacles
that his authority can be overcome.

Of them will be discussed in the third paragraph, when speaking of the mayors and correjidores, let
us try to those who can overcome.

The incompetence of those in junior destinations salable and renounced, is an obstacle and
not a little package, to give impetus to the administration of justice. Scribes chamber receivers
and attorneys do not know or do not seek anything but to get the full potential of their offices.
These trades are very small numbers and little benefit, because in the vast expanse of military
jurisdiction in the wealthy people of the Philippines, the audit of war has all civil cases
so important in the Islands, and the audience is limited to criminal cases and land disputes between
Indians and not of much value, lawsuits and has the sole business of any trade value since
the publication code in that country, but these, not many, not too serious, which is not deactivated
when the idea you have some much consideration, but not what Gen.: reasons for not possible or
easy to buy and enter taught Spanish to serve those trades hearing. The consequences of this are
delays and losses on the early administration justice, the greater disorder in the offices of
the hearing, the lack of books of seats, registrations, and state
laws prevent relationships and, finally, that to stretch it out a
Order or trade, it must always do a minister who takes this job.

This Thin story, nothing exaggerated, you can easily know how many there will be difficulties to
overcome in order to march as best that can be, and not as it should, the administration of
justice; and for further proof of this truth, go down to explanations
and details more retail discussing some of the ideas expressed, and
other obstacles stating no less bulk, and that can be removed easily.

That the administration of justice is slow, even in the extreme, heavy
in the Philippines, I think is a truth is not brought into question,
but for those who may doubt it will bring reflections following.

Manila's audience consists of one room, who knows and fails on second and third instance all kinds
of business of the thirty-one provinces (today and thirty-two) which includes its territory Este.
A regent, five ministers and two prosecutors, its endowment, which very few times is complete, and
under the réjimen and how ordinary legal substantiation is observed, is impossible and any
failure to provide early and ongoing failure to matters of attribution. The various committees
outside of his ministry that weigh about the same magistrates, very serious and many of them,
is another obstacle, and not small, to be administered promptly and effective justice. Indeed,
income assistance and supervision of the finances public, a charge more than regular occupation
continues to be a good lawyer, if you have to serve which corresponds, has been from 1829 to 1839,
which was provided by particular lawyer, in charge of the ministers of the audience, and with actual
appointments with neglect and contempt of the law of India [3], which instructs: the judges
are no more than judges, and have no commissions, rather than those that the court gives them,
etc. The advice of government is another top destination as before, and has also been played by
a magistrate a few years. In 1837 was provided in another particular lawyer. The Audit of War Marine
and also was served a few years by another magistrate, and although in 1830 the auditor was war appointed
by the King, and took charge of his office, not the Marines who, but suffer mistake, even today
plays the same magistrate. It should be noted that these destinations assignments have decent,
and have great emoluments by reason of fees, and one and others, the salaries of ministers,
have enjoyed these at once, when they have served these jobs. The court of dead and missing
property, an institution that should be preserved and give her best, as we shall tell you the
reasons be expressed in a separate paragraph is another position that turns among the magistrates
of every two years [4], and this court is matters of importance, but that is a lot or a little
bump your organization, it is certain that There are far behind him, and that their course
is in the extreme slow, do not observe the law signal is sent every week day to see these
fights [5]. A former top joint Real Estate (discontinued now) attended as member of the regent of
the hearing, and failing the senior judge or minister oldest: the infinite expedients that knew,
and whom he output was to give a preference, occupying more than you can say, and much more, since
in this kind of business is accustomed always leave with more caution and care, the immediate
financial liability they caused, and the particular circumstances of being the only lawyer who
was involved in their decisions the minister of the audience, convince certainty to any of the above,
and that obviously went into them warily. Currently, the top joint finance litigation is composed
by three ministers, under General-president of the local deputy superintendent Finance [6], and
its business, but as many as the top joint of the former do not give in to gravity. The hall
call justice, which is the second known instance of the court appealed more cars and audience
of the day, also up three ministers, and in view of fiscal of civil, it's become, hear and rule
on such cars, which expedients, processes or causes, for some three names to fit you, yours are
bulky and complicated by nature and lots of points to embrace, and are therefore subject to occupation
and severity; and though not much, also distract and occupy the same business when still in progress
are room visits or calls from PC board that comprises Mr. regent or oldest minister in a civil attorney,
where as for advice, referral for consultation counter greater when you like. A board of auctions
also attend the ministers and civil attorney, who is also heavy and irksome occupation. Finally,
a lord judge rotated annually in the office of judge of sororities and fraternities, and another
is an advisor to cross what is the oldest generals, who with the tax commissioner and civil, comprising
the court of the bull, and I have some gratification but small. Another is director of the Monte
Pio, another guard, another judge of slavery and freedom, another judge of hospitals and nursing
homes rides and married expulsion to Spain [7] being separated from their women: law fall obsolete
as many good laws, another is a judge of protocols and lower courts, and in all these units is
occupation, as no shortage of issues and different business and by necessity all the progress
must be slow and even late, and they that are themselves or any serious complication.

The prosecutors, in addition to the duties of his vast tequios ministry, which are very large
and complicated (as it is common for any fiscal proberbio resists that office five years fulfilling
as it should), they call upon themselves the protection of Indians
and Chinese, reduced nothing less than to make themselves (and privileges
that those are) the defense of their people, and business even when
run over by a person believe that they have not been to do justice,
benefiting (and make it easily) to the tax shelters, and occupy, and
not a little at times, for nothing but detract from their important
work to the gentlemen of the prosecution when they seems no reason,
and right when you are.

Now if for a single room of a regent, five ministers and two prosecutors are also of their regular
duties so many charges and fees of such gravity and occupation as well is, how it is conceivable
that speedy justice is administered in any field? It is impossible whatever may be desired in this
particular interim is not removed with a strong hand all these barriers, rather each one alone
to hinder and delay, which can not subject to calculation, the progress of judicial affairs.

For
although there are more, not less serious, because this is a natural
obstacle, although it could removed somewhere, never will be entirely,
at least in many years.

More than half provinces are overseas, compared with the capital Manila, located on the island
of Luzon or New Castile, in many of these trips are subject to Monzon, that is, while specific
station or to come and return to their ports, and although the establishment of postal raised
throughout the Islands as set forth in 1837, to affect anything, it will be little or nothing,
because the islands do not take interim flight required to have vapor prosperity crossing
in the archipelago [8], this obstacle, natural in itself, cause delays
and delay that can only remove a new plan and plant Fixed municipalities
and, that is what expresses the end of this matter.

§. III.

OF THE MAYOR AND CORREJIDORES.

Demonstrated the many serious obstacles to the administration of justice in the Philippines which
is so early is desirable to the higher court, or is second-and Third, it is manifest that
mediate the most serious in the lower courts, for though much different to the statements, they
are no less serious and worthy of attention the government and those,
and the Corps colejisladores consideration in his day, to seek to
remove them as soon as that can be, and given the special law for
our overseas provinces, are taken into account and what the Government
has failed to do, is refine the work, and are completely removed,
starting a new but similar progress and characteristic of the progress
of those provinces, and provide them with consummate rejeneracion
perfect for a bouquet as important as the question, and draw from
it the fruits of all and corresponds crave.

They are most unhappy in the provinces of the Philippines in the lower courts to give them speedy
justice for what they are before the hearing of the territory, because if this many serious
attention and weighing on their small number of ministers is in itself a serious cause of delay,
given the provinces to lay correjidores mayors and (most military), and all dedicated mainly to
the care and promotion of their interests through trade, and applied to raise funds, whose
collection is at his office, to them advance their fortunes, in an act of justice but do not
take part or interest, so generals, Thin offering the actions required to sign the signature,
for all proceedings generals is sorted by address by counsel, to which end the causes go, lawsuits
and processes to Manila for advice, in consequence of the provinces there are no lawyers established,
excepting those two or three that are immediate to Manila.

Criminal cases are formed first a summary is called, the mayor [9] the town where the event occurs that
motivates, instructing the first dilijencias, the more times or almost every language of the
country, not knowing the Castilian, and four taken ill statements to the defendants, if any, reports
to the mayor or correjidor. This at fault reviewed and approved interpreter, and to be imposed
on what has been written has since then the car, sending those dilijencias translated into Castilian
by an Indian either understand something of our language, and continues with the same or another
that entitles Indian interpreter summary statements that you think, and with the same ignorance
in practice trials that started the mayor. Are not these items and the most apropos eligible to begin
a case? As happens so neither more nor less so happens, unfortunately.

In the state that looks like the mayor or correjidor, provides another
order of referral of acted for a lawyer from the capital, in view
of this and advise him to dictate the procedures and dilijencias as
justice, with which business that is already forgotten, until return
performances with opinion of counsel, and sometimes tend to spend
many days and even weeks and months, only to expect a timely occasion
to refer the summary to the consultant until vessel or passenger has
to carry, and this is already on the delay that is unsafe; more often
be witness to all in court.

As the summary forms usually with many defects, court leave and return to Manila, and thence to
the province several times, until the assessor, the mayor or correjidor mayor and understand
each other, usually with great difficulty and labor, and always with the consequent delay in
proportion to the distance of the province. Meanwhile many essential dilijencias lost or become irreparable
and useless for the delay, and as in the investigation of criminal acts that no progress in the
first dilijencias, rarely come on later, is very rare to see a summary inquest well-educated.

Finally declared, after due difficulties, enough to proceed, courts promoters are not prosecutors
or defense counsel are able to ask the cause each according to his ministry, and to every motion
that inmates or prisoners often presented The Indian defense, or any other incident that occurs,
the course is suspended and then adviser when opportunity: lately, do not disturb more in
particular, where If sentence is pronounced with counsel and with the delays everything else,
and given and published, the case is sent to the hearing, where prosecutors to request usually
return to the province to reform defects, and even some annulments,
with which can not administer justice, or to practice some interesting
dilijencia was omitted, and still can be useful.



"It is an undoubted fact that this person has not realized the direct remunerative advantage
which he confidently anticipated," remarked the idle and discontented pipe-maker Wang Yu, as,
with a few other persons of similar inclination, he sat in the shade of the great mulberry
tree at Wu-whei, waiting for the evil influence of certain very mysterious sounds, which had
lately been heard, to pass away before he resumed his occupation. "When the seemingly proficient
and trustworthy Kai Lung first made it his practice to journey to Wu-whei, and narrate to us
the doings of persons of all classes of life," he continued, "it seemed to this one that by
closely following the recital of how Mandarins obtained their high position, and exceptionally
rich persons their wealth, he must, in the end, inevitably be rendered competent to follow
in their illustrious footsteps. Yet in how entirely contrary a direction has the whole course
of events tended! In spite of the honourable intention which involved a frequent absence from
his place of commerce, those who journeyed thither with the set purpose of possessing one of
his justly-famed opium pipes so perversely regarded the matter that, after two or three fruitless
visits, they deliberately turned their footsteps towards the workshop of the inelegant Ming-yo,
whose pipes are confessedly greatly inferior to those produced by the person who is now speaking.
Nevertheless, the rapacious Kai Lung, to whose influence the falling off in custom was thus
directly attributable, persistently declined to bear any share whatever in the loss which his
profession caused, and, indeed, regarded the circumstance from so grasping and narrow-minded
a point of observation that he would not even go to the length of suffering this much-persecuted
one to join the circle of his hearers without on every occasion making the customary offering.
In this manner a well-intentioned pursuit of riches has insidiously led this person within
measurable distance of the bolted dungeon for those who do not meet their just debts, while
the only distinction likely to result from his assiduous study of the customs and methods of
those high in power is that of being publicly bowstrung as a warning to others. Manifestedly
the pointed finger of the unreliable Kai Lung is a very treacherous guide."

"It is related," said a dispassionate voice behind them, "that a person of limited intelligence,
on being assured that he would certainly one day enjoy an adequate competence if he closely
followed the industrious habits of the thrifty bee, spent the greater part of his life in anointing
his thighs with the yellow powder which he laboriously collected from the flowers of the field.
It is not so recorded; but doubtless the nameless one in question was by profession a maker
of opium pipes, for this person has observed from time to time how that occupation, above all
others, tends to degrade the mental faculties, and to debase its followers to a lower position
than that of the beasts of labour. Learn therefrom, O superficial Wang Yu, that wisdom lies
in an intelligent perception of great principles, and not in a slavish imitation of details
which are, for the most part, beyond your simple and insufficient understanding."

"Such may, indeed, be the case, Kai Lung," replied Wang Yu sullenly--for it was the story-teller
in question who had approached unperceived, and who now stood before them--"but it is none
the less a fact that, on the last occasion when this misguided person joined the attending
circle at your uplifted voice, a Mandarin of the third degree chanced to pass through Wu-whei,
and halted at the door-step of 'The Fountain of Beauty,' fully intending to entrust this one
with the designing and fashioning of a pipe of exceptional elaborateness. This matter, by his
absence, has now passed from him, and to-day, through listening to the narrative of how the
accomplished Yuin-Pel doubled his fortune, he is the poorer by many taels."

"Yet to-morrow, when the name of the Mandarin of the third degree appears in the list of persons
who have transferred their entire property to those who are nearly related to them in order
to avoid it being seized to satisfy the just claims made against them," replied Kai Lung, "you
will be able to regard yourself the richer by so many taels."

At these words, which recalled to the minds of all who were present the not uncommon manner
of behaving observed by those of exalted rank, who freely engaged persons to supply them with
costly articles without in any way regarding the price to be paid, Wang Yu was silent.

"Nevertheless," exclaimed a thin voice from the edge of the group which surrounded Kai Lung,
"it in nowise follows that the stories are in themselves excellent, or of such a nature that
the hearing of their recital will profit a person. Wang Yu may be satisfied with empty words,
but there are others present who were studying deep matters when Wang Yu was learning the art
of walking. If Kai Lung's stories are of such remunerative benefit as the person in question
claims, how does it chance that Kai Lung himself who is assuredly the best acquainted with
them, stands before us in mean apparel, and on all occasions confessing an unassuming poverty?"

"It is Yan-hi Pung," went from mouth to mouth among the bystanders--"Yan-hi Pung, who traces
on paper the words of chants and historical tales, and sells them to such as can afford to
buy. And although his motive in exposing the emptiness of Kai Lung's stories may not be Heaven-sent--inasmuch
as Kai Lung provides us with such matter as he himself purveys, only at a much more moderate
price--yet his words are well considered, and must therefore be regarded."

"O Yan-hi Pung," replied Kai Lung, hearing the name from those who stood about him, and moving
towards the aged person, who stood meanwhile leaning upon his staff, and looking from side
to side with quickly moving eyelids in a manner very offensive towards the story-teller, "your
just remark shows you to be a person of exceptional wisdom, even as your well-bowed legs prove
you to be one of great bodily strength; for justice is ever obvious and wisdom hidden, and
they who build structures for endurance discard the straight and upright and insist upon such
an arch as you so symmetrically exemplify."

Speaking in this conciliatory manner, Kai Lung came up to Yan-hi Pung, and taking between his
fingers a disc of thick polished crystal, which the aged and short-sighted chant-writer used
for the purpose of magnifying and bringing nearer the letters upon which he was engaged, and
which hung around his neck by an embroidered cord, the story-teller held it aloft, crying aloud:

"Observe closely, and presently it will be revealed and made clear how the apparently very
conflicting words of the wise Yan-hi Pung, and those of this unassuming but nevertheless conscientious
person who is now addressing you, are, in reality, as one great truth."

With this assurance Kai Lung moved the crystal somewhat, so that it engaged the sun's rays,
and concentrated them upon the uncovered crown of the unsuspecting and still objectionably-engaged
person before him. Without a moment's pause, Yan-hi Pung leapt high into the air, repeatedly
pressing his hand to the spot thus selected and crying aloud:

"Evil dragons and thunderbolts! but the touch was as hot as a scar left by the uncut nail of
the sublime Buddha!"

"Yet the crystal--" remarked Kai Lung composedly, passing it into the hands of those who stood
near.

"Is as cool as the innermost leaves of the riverside sycamore," they declared.

Kai Lung said nothing further, but raised both his hands above his head, as if demanding their
judgment. All of which was eagerly taken to him and snapped together
thus for the city of Cuzco, where, where it was, just gave and shared the spoils to their
own, giving each one his paresció that was enough and according to the quality of person.


"The story of Sen Heng," began Kai Lung, when the discussion had terminated in the manner already
recorded, "concerns itself with one who possessed an unsuspecting and ingenious nature, which
ill-fitted him to take an ordinary part in the everyday affairs of life, no matter how engaging
such a character rendered him among his friends and relations. Having at an early age been
entrusted with a burden of rice and other produce from his father's fields to dispose of in
the best possible manner at a neighbouring mart, and having completed the transaction in a
manner extremely advantageous to those with whom he trafficked but very intolerable to the
one who had sent him, it at once became apparent that some other means of gaining a livelihood
must be discovered for him.

"'Beyond all doubt,' said his father, after considering the matter for a period, 'it is a case
in which one should be governed by the wise advice and example of the Mandarin Poo-chow.'

"'Illustrious sire,' exclaimed Sen Heng, who chanced to be present, 'the illiterate person
who stands before you is entirely unacquainted with the one to whom you have referred; nevertheless,
he will, as you suggest, at once set forth, and journeying with all speed to the abode of the
estimable Poo-chow, solicit his experience and advice.'

"'Unless a more serious loss should be occasioned,' replied the father coldly, 'there is no
necessity to adopt so extreme a course. The benevolent Mandarin in question existed at a remote
period of the Thang dynasty, and the incident to which an allusion has been made arose in the
following way: To the public court of the enlightened Poo-chow there came one day a youth of
very inferior appearance and hesitating manner, who besought his explicit advice, saying: "The
degraded and unprepossessing being before you, O select and venerable Mandarin, is by nature
and attainments a person of the utmost timidity and fearfulness. From this cause life itself
has become a detestable observance in his eyes, for those who should be his companions of both
sexes hold him in undisguised contempt, making various unendurable allusions to the colour
and nature of his internal organs whenever he would endeavour to join them. Instruct him, therefore,
the manner in which this cowardice may be removed, and no service in return will be esteemed
too great." "There is a remedy," replied the benevolent Mandarin, without any hesitation whatever,
"which if properly carried out is efficacious beyond the possibility of failure. Certain component
parts of your body are lacking, and before the desired result can be obtained these must be
supplied from without. Of all courageous things the tiger is the most fearless, and in consequence
it combines all those ingredients which you require; furthermore, as the teeth of the tiger
are the instruments with which it accomplishes its vengeful purpose, there reside the essential
principles of its inimitable courage. Let the person who seeks instruction in the matter, therefore,
do as follows: taking the teeth of a full-grown tiger as soon as it is slain, and before the
essences have time to return into the body, he shall grind them to a powder, and mixing the
powder with a portion of rice, consume it. After seven days he must repeat the observance,
and yet again a third time, after another similar lapse. Let him, then, return for further
guidance; for the present the matter interests this person no further." At these words the
youth departed, filled with a new and inspired hope; for the wisdom of the sagacious Poo-chow
was a matter which did not admit of any doubt whatever, and he had spoken with well-defined
certainty of the success of the experiment. Nevertheless, after several days industriously
spent in endeavouring to obtain by purchase the teeth of a newly-slain tiger, the details of
the undertaking began to assume a new and entirely unforeseen aspect; for those whom he approached
as being the most likely to possess what he required either became very immoderately and disagreeably
amused at the nature of the request, or regarded it as a new and ill-judged form of ridicule,
which they prepared to avenge by blows and by base remarks of the most personal variety. At
length it became unavoidably obvious to the youth that if he was to obtain the articles in
question it would first be necessary that he should become adept in the art of slaying tigers,
for in no other way were the required conditions likely to be present. Although the prospect
was one which did not greatly tend to allure him, yet he did not regard it with the utterly
incapable emotions which would have been present on an earlier occasion; for the habit of continually
guarding himself from the onslaughts of those who received his inquiry in an attitude of narrow-minded
distrust had inspired him with a new-found valour, while his amiable and unrestrained manner
of life increased his bodily vigour in every degree. First perfecting himself in the use of
the bow and arrow, therefore, he betook himself to a wild and very extensive forest, and there
concealed himself among the upper foliage of a tall tree standing by the side of a pool of
water. On the second night of his watch, the youth perceived a large but somewhat ill-conditioned
tiger approaching the pool for the purpose of quenching its thirst, whereupon he tremblingly
fitted an arrow to his bowstring, and profiting by the instruction he had received, succeeded
in piercing the creature to the heart. After fulfilling the observance laid upon him by the
discriminating Poo-chow, the youth determined to remain in the forest, and sustain himself
upon such food as fell to his weapons, until the time arrived when he should carry out the
rite for the last time. At the end of seven days, so subtle had he become in all kinds of hunting,
and so strengthened by the meat and herbs upon which he existed, that he disdained to avail
himself of the shelter of a tree, but standing openly by the side of the water, he engaged
the attention of the first tiger which came to drink, and discharged arrow after arrow into
its body with unfailing power and precision. The
countryside, highly cultured, have a very abundant population, robust, vigorous and lover of
work, while the passionate pleasures. Quite the reverse of Castilian regions, loneliness is
not manifested at any point in the province of Seville, abound and the small towns of 1.000 to
4.000 souls. However, they do note some considerable cities, centers of a vast agricultural production
is mainly wine, oil, cereals, grains, livestock of all kinds, vegetables and fruits. The most
notable of these, cities are:

Sevilla, which has (even the new suburbs outside the fortifications) 112.600 inhabitants

Ecija, with 28.800

Carmona, with 18.800.

Osuna 17.500

Utrera, with 14.000

Marchena, with 13.000

Alcalá de Guadaira, with 8.260

All these people although they are primarily agricultural centers,
feed a crowd manufacturing, factories and workshops of all kinds,
which increase the animation of the country, and we give a lot of
economic interest.

Sevilla alone has some large branches and factories manufactures special importance, - such as
its superb casting of guns and cannons, their nitrería, and especially its vast manufacturing of
cigarettes (by the State that is), which gives 4.000 labor to workers, establishment worth a visit
with pleasure and interest.

Specifying the view over the city, the scene is so curious and beautiful. The Guadalquivir describing
a semicircle around a large part the precincts of the city proper, screened and enclosed by walls,
it is said, dates from the time of Caesar, and numerous Isolated strong today are useless if only
by their obvious inferiority about the progress of the strategy and architecture brutal selfishness,
isolation and death. On either side you look at all interested in its quirks and contrasts funny,
and the details stand out.

At around the nine suburbs, which only one, the de Triana, inhabited by Gypsies, which is the
most populous, is at the margin right of the Guadalquivir, linked to the city by a beautiful
suspension bridge. Very close bridge on the port itself, stands the lovely golden dome of the Torre
de Oro, which seems glittering scaly.

At the foot of the Giralda tower we saw the great mass of the cathedral and romantic, whose
dark Gothic style and color made her look a granite mountain shattered in one hundred peaks,
needles, bold arches and huge cracks. It was like an extinct volcano, imposing Fear for no majesty
of its great time-blackened rubble. Next of the cathedral, the splendid palace of stone and
marble called the Market or Bolsa, which was the famous "House of
Trade" for the India trade.

The beautiful little further called the Alcazar Moorish monument, surrounded by delightful gardens
which are themselves Sevilla treasure. And far beyond even the immense edifice of tobacco manufacturing,
Modern and elegant palace of San Telmo (owned by the Duke of Montpensier) to the edge of a vast and
beautiful park that stretches on the left bank of the Guadalquivir.

Looking in another direction, is in the suburb of San Roque the monument called Canos de Carmona,
impressive Roman aqueduct of 410 arches, and to one side the great factory of saltpetre, in
the suburb Resolana of the beautiful hospital of Charity and the Arsenal, in the splendid
Macarena military hospital, and St. Bernard's famous bronze cannon foundry. Else is a labyrinth
of narrow winding streets, buildings uneven, capricious, many bizarre shapes of them, whose
swarm centenarians coconut trees stand and Historical, many exquisite
palaces or houses of the same style as those observed in Cadiz, and
a lump of balconies, roofs, turrets and Moorish buildings, brownish
glow at the bottom of the towers and domes of many churches in Arabic
style, shining, picturesque on account of the flake-shaped roofs formed
with small tiles mixed colors.

Add to the interest of the thousand details of the delicacy of the interior vegetation, and
include the beauty of that pangram semi-oriental and semi-Spanish at the same time. The orchards
and gardens are numerous, not only in the suburbs but also in the center of the city, carefully
kept in the courtyards. So, are the masses of the buildings as a huge trail of uneven rocks
amid a sea of ​​pomegranate, orange, lemon, and millions of jasmine
flowers that fill the air with perfume.

       Sevilla deserved his fame: is a haven of greenery and curiosities
of all kinds.

* * * * *

After having a general idea of ​​the Andalusian metropolis, as a material object, we descended
La Giralda to go and observe the customs of their society. Walking the streets, penetrating in
cafes and hotels, visiting the elegant homes and gardens, and scanning monumental objects Sevilla
abounds, it recognizes the essential point type or characteristic of that society, ardent and poetic
for its blood and its climate, independent and proud by being that it seeks to actively work,
and passionate in the extreme. Sevilla is a huge museum, in the full force of the word, and
materially and morally. The feeling artistic background of the character is from Seville, in
all classes of society - now disclosed in the construction of sumptuous elegance, now in the candid demonstrations
- and predominant taste (simple or refined) in the customs and usages, simply because the picturesque
and rudimentary.

The picturesque adjective is undoubtedly the type that fits better Seville. At the bottom of
everything that lives there and stirred, as the inanimate, a manifestation vigorous poetry, a tendency
to wonder, expansion sentimental, he can not escape the observer.

There is a trait that does not attend to impress the foreigner in this regard .-- The thousand
beauties of the houses belonging to wealthy families, where marble, flowers and decorations and colors
vivid and seductive are lavished, the grace and freshness of the thousands of yards, that summer
nights are converted into classrooms, the care with which many are preserved scented gardens and
orchards, where the waters abound not stop jumping ever, the enthusiasm that all manifest: for the naive
paintings and sculptural objects, either regardless of their quality, the thousand funny quirks
of all the portals, balconies, cabinets, viewpoints air and the barred windows (which make
such an important role in the adventures love or mere gallantry), the luxury and artifice
of the shops and stores, glittering of workmanship, jewelry, silks, art and trinkets, the taste
for variety, apart the requirement of the climate, is an art, whether it is made, either through
their use; passion for bullfighting, theater, horseback riding, tightrope walkers and all games
ios class entertainment, love the game, under almost all its forms, passion in that work of
art, in a sense, and taste so wonderful, unexpected, or random, the unique energy penchant for the
picturesque and outstanding, which is manifested in folk dresses, whether by their forms, either
by their ornaments or by a combination of bright colors and shining; charm with all the music
they love happy and passionate, passionate dancing, horseback riding and careers, fairs, processions,
etc., the strange forms and motifs of gear riding, weapons and musical instruments, the sum
abundance of shops, factories small and workshops, where thousands
of employees work (isolated or in small groups) the making of a thousand
works of art: all that and some other circumstances that step high
artistic express deep feeling of Seville.

And it can not be otherwise, considering how powerful the influence they exert on moral education
of a people the nature and objects around him constantly and impress. The Seville, at birth,
is the notion of beauty and inspiration of poetry in all which is in sight. A wonderful sky with
a sun that warms and enlivens the blood., A prodigious fertility land, giving as they are required,
a vegetation essentially poetic; such as olive and orange trees, lemons and pomegranates, water
and perfumes in abundance for give joy and pleasure, an easy life, thanks to the topographical
conditions of the country, wine (The great tempter that incites pleasure) good, strong and in abundance.
On the other hand, monuments and race predispose to the love of art. From start to march,
to live, everywhere are wonderful monuments, beautiful on the outside and filled with treasures
inside, and beautiful faces are observed. I have not ever seen a race so strongly beautiful as
that of Seville, and I think it will rival in Europe, if not in some
regions Eastern Hungary and in some provinces of Italy.

The beauty is so general in the types of Seville that is almost vulgar. There is no severe Spanish
beauty majesty or beauty impassive and cold of the English, or artificial grace (somewhat intentionally)
of the French, nor the harsh and almost brutal beauty of Valencia. The man is generally of high
stature, - the wife of small-regular if Height .-- Despite the differences that determines
sex everywhere, there are certain features that are common to men and women in Seville: forms slender,
thin but strong; black hair, silky and shining, rarely curled, finely arched black eyebrows; upper
teeth and very white, a soft complexion and ruddy brown color, very attractive; very dark eyes,
vivid, intelligent and quickly go through the 1st of more Ardentía more passionate tenderness to
the smiling and friendly, a ride full of abandonment and grace, naturally faddish and as tempting
without malice, the lilting voice, soft and sonorous, accented dramatically at the end of predictions,
and always passionate interjections and salt idioms provincial - not counting the popular pronunciation
that changes the sound of 1st r, 1st l, 1a s, The 1st z, etc. in
the most original and spicy - these are the general features of type
Seville.

Women are sweet and friendly, although there are in your face I know not what of manly without affectation.
The man has some rough, very East, which attracts or afraid in the manner as it question. If
you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although it
belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging. But watch out for
walk by crook! Then, if a bullfighter, or bully or farmer, horseman or something like that, I
check for the moment a shower of expletives in to pound and he took out the knife or rolling
up fists to decide the question by way of enforcement. But if instead of one of those geniuses
Atrabiliarios occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation have
different proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know While
the country may be completely mystified. On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you would
believe able to swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world with a kick. Is formalized,
twitches, shouts, threatens, roars like a cannon and looks like a
fury .... Le cojeis the word, showing that not afraid, and then the
lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments, laughs, makes him
all joke ("binge") and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost
cordiality.

The Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight
helmets: a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy.
Fortunately, though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps
and punches, usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the
bottle in a puff of smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar. HOWEVER, there is a question not ever
fix (at least in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving
up absolute: it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot. The
Seville of that class does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your
pretty girl, as they call them. If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover
leads to the ferocity of jealousy or ridicule. This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very
little true love in the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly. We look upon
his "girl" or pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to
the second makes you frown sullen; to the third I said with anger
and stress provoking:

"- Eh, mister!

(Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me! If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl another sees,
and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo us! That if they want sarba er Burt er
ujté road and take to another party with music. "

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with their
arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville. The 'Gate'
or window on that makes a very important and traditional. If you walk down the streets you
after six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ​​comedy
da hilt. At the foot of many low and narrow windows is tipping some gallant head with an air of
mystery, leaning on one arm resting on the wall, and wrapped in his cloak, if gender is not nice
(but not spend jacket), as seen in the a face flattering shadow looming on the bottom of the
grate. What do these two figures? - Are stripping the kettle. I had often heard this phrase in
Colombia, with a very different meaning. There is called stripping the kettle to be idle, wasting
time when it is bound to a work or task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free
trade. In Spain, the turkey strips in a more entertaining and promising,
since operation is to make the cut for the fence or window to dear
or beloved.

I think it must have a great abundance of turkeys in Seville, because there so many strip.

No matter what fans or friends of both sexes are free to look and talk at all hours, within
or outside the home. The kettle is always peeling, because they want the gallant manners. Perhaps the
suitor has had a long visit during the day, or a society to later to the family of Miss or girl,
and yet the visit at the foot of the fence is essential, he usually early evening. Alas for the
gallant to forget one day in the kettle to be peeled! The next terrible reproaches hear, you will
find an angry frown, or very indifferent and cold, when no sobs, tears and complaints reproaching
ingratitude and wrongdoing .... I frankly laws that severely restrict the kettle individual
autonomy of Andalusia, but I find them his poetic side and attractive. There are customs that
are not already, but in Spain, where Orientalism and feudalism have
left very deep roots.

The matador does today often the troubadour of the old days.

Unfortunately, the people of Seville are not satisfied with the poetic Platonism of the "gate."
Seville as a major commercial port city, and as a treasure of beauties
of art and leisure, attracting singularly especially in the Easter
and spring, not only to many foreigners but also to the other Spanish
provinces.

"Entirely tranquil in intellect--for the possibility of King-y-Yang's intention being in any
way other than what he had represented it to be did not arise within Sen's ingenuous mind--the
person in question cheerfully set forth on his long but unavoidable march towards the region
of Yun. As he journeyed along the way, the nature of his meditation brought up before him the
events which had taken place since his arrival at Hankow; and, for the first time, it was brought
within his understanding that the story of the youth and the three tigers, which his father
had related to him, was in the likeness of a proverb, by which counsel and warning is conveyed
in a graceful and inoffensive manner. Readily applying the fable to his own condition, he could
not doubt but that the first two animals to be overthrown were represented by the two undertakings
which he had already conscientiously performed in the matter of the mechanical ducks and the
inlaid boxes, and the conviction that he was even then engaged on the third and last trial
filled him with an intelligent gladness so unobtrusive and refined that he could express his
entrancing emotions in no other way that by lifting up his voice and uttering the far-reaching
cries which he had used on the first of the occasions just referred to.

"In this manner the first part of the journey passed away with engaging celerity. Anxious as
Sen undoubtedly was to complete the third task, and approach the details which, in his own
case, would correspond with the command of the bowmen and the marriage with the Mandarin's
daughter of the person in the story, the noontide heat compelled him to rest in the shade by
the wayside for a lengthy period each day. During one of these pauses it occurred to his versatile
mind that the time which was otherwise uselessly expended might be well disposed of in endeavouring
to increase the value and condition of the creatures under his care by instructing them in
the performance of some simple accomplishments, such as might not be too laborious for their
feeble and immature understanding. In this he was more successful than he had imagined could
possibly be the case, for the discriminating insects, from the first, had every appearance
of recognizing that Sen was inspired by a sincere regard for their ultimate benefit, and was
not merely using them for his own advancement. So assiduously did they devote themselves to
their allotted tasks, that in a very short space of time there was no detail in connexion with
their own simple domestic arrangements that was not understood and daily carried out by an
appointed band. Entranced at this intelligent manner of conducting themselves, Sen industriously
applied his time to the more congenial task of instructing them in the refined arts, and presently
he had the enchanting satisfaction of witnessing a number of the most cultivated faultlessly
and unhesitatingly perform a portion of the well-known gravity-removing play entitled "The
Benevolent Omen of White Dragon Tea Garden; or, Three Times a Mandarin." Not even content with
this elevating display, Sen ingeniously contrived, from various objects which he discovered
at different points by the wayside, an effective and life-like representation of a war-junk,
for which he trained a crew, who, at an agreed signal, would take up their appointed places
and go through the required movements, both of sailing, and of discharging the guns, in a reliable
and efficient manner.

"As Sen was one day educating the least competent of the insects in the simpler parts of banner-carriers,
gong-beaters, and the like, to their more graceful and versatile companions, he lifted up his
eyes and beheld, standing by his side, a person of very elaborately embroidered apparel and
commanding personality, who had all the appearance of one who had been observing his movements
for some space of time. Calling up within his remembrance the warning which he had received
from King-y-Yang, Sen was preparing to restore the creatures to their closed box, when the
stranger, in a loud and dignified voice, commanded him to refrain, adding:

"'There is, resting at a spot within the immediate neighbourhood, a person of illustrious name
and ancestry, who would doubtless be gratified to witness the diverting actions of which this
one has recently been a spectator. As the reward of a tael cannot be unwelcome to a person
of your inferior appearance and unpresentable garments, take up your box without delay, and
follow the one who is now before you.'

"With these words the richly-clad stranger led the way through a narrow woodland path, closely
followed by Sen, to whom the attraction of the promised reward--a larger sum, indeed, than
he had ever possessed--was sufficiently alluring to make him determined that the other should
not, for the briefest possible moment, pass beyond his sight.

"Not to withhold that which Sen was entirely ignorant of until a later period, it is now revealed
that the person in question was the official Provider of Diversions and Pleasurable Occupations
to the sacred and illimitable Emperor, who was then engaged in making an unusually extensive
march through the eight Provinces surrounding his Capital--for the acute and well-educated
will not need to be reminded that Nanking occupied that position at the time now engaged with.
Until his providential discovery of Sen, the distinguished Provider had been immersed in a
most unenviable condition of despair, for his enlightened but exceedingly perverse-minded master
had, of late, declined to be in any way amused, or even interested, by the simple and unpretentious
entertainment which could be obtained in so inaccessible a region. The well-intentioned efforts
of the followers of the Court, who engagingly endeavoured to divert the Imperial mind by performing
certain feats which they remembered to have witnessed on previous occasions, but which, until
the necessity arose, they had never essayed, were entirely without result of a beneficial order.
Even the accomplished Provider's one attainment--that of striking together both the hands and
the feet thrice simultaneously, while leaping into the air, and at the same time producing
a sound not unlike that emitted by a large and vigorous bee when held captive in the fold of
a robe, an action which never failed to throw the illustrious Emperor into a most uncontrollable
state of amusement when performed within the Imperial Palace--now only drew from him the unsympathetic,
if not actually offensive, remark that the attitude and the noise bore a marked resemblance
to those produced by a person when being bowstrung, adding, with unprepossessing significance,
that of the two entertainments he had an unevadable conviction that the bowstringing would
be the more acceptable and gravity-removing.

"When Sen beheld the size and the silk-hung magnificence of the camp into which his guide led
him, he was filled with astonishment, and at the same time recognized that he had acted in
an injudicious and hasty manner by so readily accepting the offer of a tael; whereas, if he
had been in possession of the true facts of the case, as they now appeared, he would certainly
have endeavoured to obtain double that amount before consenting. As he was hesitating within
himself whether the matter might not even yet be arranged in a more advantageous manner, he
was suddenly led forward into the most striking and ornamental of the tents, and commanded
to engage the attention of the one in whose presence he found himself, without delay.

"From the first moment when the inimitable creatures began, at Sen's spoken word, to go through
the ordinary details of their domestic affairs, there was no sort of doubt as to the nature
of the success with which their well-trained exertions would be received. Because I would have done it paresció his captain that what he had commanded, rose
Viracocha Inca and Inca Yupanqui begged metiese things that went from Uscovilca in the room
do before he had prayed that sends meter, so that pisase Urco Inca child and then to the pisase
him. He again repeated that answer Inca Yupanqui the pisase him if he wanted, and if not he
would go, as I had said. And when Viracocha Inca could not finish him the Inca pisase Urco,
thinking of killing him inside the room, said to send him get into the room, quests themselves, it
would step in front of. And being in this contention, they came to Inca Yupanqui his three good
friends, and suspecting Viracocha Inca betrayal that I wanted to do, would not consent to
enter the Inca Yupanqui room.

And being in this, he reached his Inca Yupanqui a captain of the people he care brought, and said
they had seen some people out there Peñol war, which had left one by one and two by two, and
that was plenty of people that had left, and some of them carried spears and halberds, and that
he went by the way do they had been, he suspected aquesta were to take some step in as soon
as he return, or that were to take and what they steal in this city of Cuzco had, and to take
it. And as at this tell him that his captain ahead of his three good friends, she laughed to see
Inca Yupanqui his father wanted to kill that way, and knowing that reigned envy him, and estándole
begging him to serve it all and that it acetic service. And as I had heard what that captain was
telling, he said to the two of those three friends them to take half people in his care he had
brought there, and he was suffering and had left the Peñol them to betray him, for so the winters
including one to one and two by two, which were in siguimiento of that Viracocha was winter, and
who would look if these go into hiding in some hills or ravines, and if they went to Cuzco and
they look forward they saw and understood, return to him tell him what happened ANSI, for him,
with understanding and being warned of what it was, give orders on what he had to do with
those who remained, and that if case was that they had made such an ambush, there were right and
understanding do dello, hiciesen high, or getting no warning so that the enemies they had understanding
that they had understood, and which were then quite soon, because he completed in briefly with
his father, and they look forward hiciesen then return.

And thus, his good two friends, begging [herself besought him sore]
that enter via any alone in the room with her father because he was
not killed in some treachery, and the same charge to Mayta Apu, who
was with him, look after his master, and so they did these two gentlemen
and sent do fall within Inca Yupanqui was two hundred Indians with
their axes in their hands, sent to them which it was made around where
Inca Yupanqui was, and to mirasen and beware, do not be made any treachery.

To other people that there was, they sent to stay at the door do Inca Yupanqui was and that
if they feel some people DIN inside, enter at once all and who would look for his master.

And
this fact, people who took the Inca Yupanqui had commanded them, and throwing forward fifty
Indians, one by one, two by two, covered with their blankets (like that), very discreetly, and
well who had left had sent ahead saliesen Inca Viracocha, which fifty Indians were discovered, looking
for his enemies. And as they were scattered and large space each other, an Indian one of those
who went ahead as they came together at the broken firing and stream discharge was do the straw,
saw the enemy ambush, which, as they saw looming, dejáronse all fall
on the straw, I thought I had seen.

And this Indian as the saw, sat on the floor and made to tie spent some tie his shoes, dissimulation
which was a sign and warning to his companions that behind came, which, as might see him in
the way that you have heard of one another became the new to the two gentlemen who behind them
came, which, as it was understood that ambush, sent to all yours is collected and together there
they do the voice had taken, except at fifty that had gone before, whom I commanded that went
around looking at and discovering those who were in the ambush if they left or went ahead,
and send to that tied shoes, coming a lowly Indian to him which tell him showing that tied and
untied shoes and other things of his to bring, which might show dissimulation of what had understood.

And
leaving it in this state, back to Inca Yupanqui, who, as provided on hobiese what you heard, begged
his father to prison pisase those logos there Uscovilca had brought him, which said Viracocha
Inca, who did not want to, if not stepped Urco first Inca, and Inca Yupanqui to this he said
that because he was her father and I have respect dalle obidient and as such their Lord, had
he been there to his people that he pisase, and beg him to ansímismo returned to their village and
city of Cuzco, for he, like his father and in his name he had won that company, he wanted
out of there and go to town Cuzco and enter succeeding with those captains and Uscovilca things,
because that had been his intention and to which he had come there,
that another way, that he had not Quél bring what they had gained
such pisase Urco Inca, his eldest son.

And finish saying that his father Inca Yupanqui Inca Viracocha, ordered to take the clothes
and the rest of Uscovilca, and ordered the prisoners to lift the soil, which until that hour
had been lying on the ground, and so he got out Inca Yupanqui, and run angry that his father had
not stomping on prisoners and their loved what you heard. And his father had pesábale be so wrong
with him that he wanted to kill and bring about death, seeing it in himself that he had not given
cause wherefore of angry e hobiese had ill will, but before attempting and had sought to make
all service, and make all pleasure and contentment, and how they know that anger and passion
of it thou had was for envy to see quel escedia all his brethren, both had some passion for
it.

In craving is left where his father was, considering these and many other things, and how came
to do her two good friends were with the people waiting and warned tiniéndole the army had
betrayed him, make him sloppy thinking, said to his captains there three parts that would make
these people, and that the two Dell were divided, one by of the way, and the other on the other,
and the other to go there with him, and that these two parts craves were divided, were disguised
as could be, and that he would enter for the path and through the woods, and that should give
to do the ambush, and their captains should say: C ac'ayacha acacia, which says to them, them! [28],
then the people come out, which ANSI was encircling the mountain, and they should fall into the
enemy, and that without respect to anyone, not dejasen none to life.

And this fact and ANSI provided, these people left care in the way that you have heard, é Inca
Yupanqui was the craves, and going on the right path, and came to the creek, Inca Yupanqui,
do the mountain was ambushed and he was done, and I went to the middle of it, leading his people
looking and advised of what they suspected, tiráronle [29] within the mountain stone Inca
Yupanqui and not to hit him, but they gave to one of the had litters, and seen this for Inca Yupanqui
and his three best friends, said aloud: To them, to them!, And as his people, had already surrounded
the mountain, you hear his voice, gave in the ambush in such a way that no man escaped.

And when he was Inca Yupanqui to the city of Cuzco, he ordered his friend to return Vicaquirao
his father Inca Viracocha, and tell him to come to his city, which had saved things and those for
Dell triumph, and so he ordered to go aside with him three thousand men and accompany him to
be kept. And thus, broke Vicaquirao, and that was to come do Penol Viracocha was, found him
crying was big for him and his death Inca Yupanqui who were killed in the ambush, which had
been dead many masters top of that he had, and since he had new Viracocha Inca Cuzco towards
that large crowd of people came to war, had turned his son over him to kill her to him and
to theirs that it had, and went there in brief consultation with
his own in which they agreed, that if war came upon him and his son
that he would talk if they came from some concert or another thing
that was Pedilla allegiance, to do everything that he was asked by
é defendant.

É to know who came, or how there came the demand came, sent Viracocha a man to come out of those
with him were placed in mourning and crying, and he was suffering the same with him ten other
Indians in the same way, and to go aside Peñol one after another, and queste master to be in front
and behind the Indians were, of what art mirasen received them People who craves leave, if
they caught or to some anger, and what you might see him again ANSI to warn.

And thus, this gentleman came in the way and that, and they came to do Vicaquirao came and arrived
to him, made his reverence, and the same to him Vicaquirao and as ANSI come see him crying,
asked her what had been passion, though he suspected it was either because he had died by his hands
a brother in the ambush. The man told her that crying for that his brother had died in the ambush,
all of which the Vicaquirao scolded him and told him be poorly done and agreed. The master replied
that he was not culpante it, and Viracocha Inca had provided without giving the party. Vicaquirao
replied to this, that if Viracocha Inca I had provided, what they had gained there to keep
it, not so aina reinstating friends and relatives that there was lost. The man said that since
this was done, and that It had not to do or talk, mad that it had provided under Viracocha Inca,
that begged him to tell him that I went back and what was their demand. Vicaquirao told him, and then
one man told the weapon Vicaquirao had given them and agree that
they had had, and that in such an agreement had been agreed, and to
what he had left.

All of which is heard by Vicaquirao, it took a very big laugh to him and his men who were there
around, and was so wins the laugh, that the gentleman laughed with them. Ansi, all together
they went to do was Viracocha Inca, and how craving were a space, it Vicaquirao begged to
let him go ahead to secure to Viracocha Inca, who had left to him and stirred up all their own
with and fear of what he had said, and so they went to do this man was and told Viracocha Vicaquirao
to what was. And from then little, came Vicaquirao to do the Inca Viracocha, and made him their
compliance, and said the embassy from Inca Yupanqui you have already brought him ear, which responded
Viracocha Quél baggy waited until it again if I did not understand to Cuzco, having left the
flight, it was something shameful, and it would not be to him enter the city, having been homeless
and having a boy victory, as was his son Inca Yupanqui was there that do Penol of Cayucos Xaquixaguana
[30], thought make a village with people who had them and thought die there, and that more will
not wait in Cuzco, who believed more in him to enter his days. And he did Viracocha Inca,
settled at that Penol on the summit of Calca, seven leagues from Cuzco, and made the most of
the people stone houses.

And he understood and learned all the more that were in the Peñol Viracocha, the Inca Yupanqui was
so warlike and so friendly to everyone, which he knew from childhood, and had to be master,
as he was, and having done such a large company, could not leave to make large grants to them
that he arrived and he wished to serve, and considering this, too many people, of which there
Viracocha had it, went to the city of Cuzco. Inca Yupanqui was with a happy face, and craves
desculpábansele such were the and tell him that if he had desmamparado, which his father had
brought, and he responded to this that it was said, he had no anger against them, if you had
gone with his father, who had done as good, that his father was his Lord and all of them. I
look forward, as they arrived do he was comin 'from where his father was, the rescibia well,
and gave them land, women, and houses, and clothes, and never took any thing to which he had left
there when his father out, as were houses, land, stores food, and clothes that had their homes
ANSI left, before telling the such, that he had been in the custody of their estates, which,
as understood them who had gone to recreate his father that he had
been in care of their estates all, everyone looked if anything was
missing from his home, he and guard who was left of them, they would
realize Dell, and that none would be missing something.

All of which he had made to provide: and sent to certain gentlemen who do not consent to enter
anyone in any house that had been left deserted ANSI, because he always had that such dwell on
them, costing each of them on their great magnificence, it would return each a longing that
his house, and so they became, as I have heard.

É Vicaquirao turning to speak of, who had been with persuading and begging Viracocha that wanted
to come to his city, which could never kill it, and after three days there was in his company,
costing it Viracocha Inca was not wanting to return to Cuzco, turned Vicaquirao. Come to the
city of Cuzco, Inca Yupanqui said the response to Inca Viracocha told that you have heard, and
everything else that he passed all of which heard by Inca Yupanqui, grieved, seeing that his
father would come to be Lord as was.

And seeing that, he ordered all his people together with him that this was, he would say more than
fifty thousand men of war, and these were the neighboring towns were Messrs. to give him,
if people had that as they saw the crowd of people for Inca Yupanqui came, and as he had been
of help, lanzáronse them with all their people to help him, with people who craves leave for
Inca Yupanqui, [t] ANSI given for these neighbors. And they say that the battle had just given
to Uscovilca, and victory there by Inca Yupanqui Viracocha people that you invest, then he
disappeared and did not see it most outstanding fifty or sixty thousand men, who were those
who mixed their neighbors between people who have heard.

And making people pool their Inca Yupanqui, ordered a favorable answer before all the spoil of
battle, taking the best thing that dello paresció, to sacrifice dello Viracocha by the favor
and give him victory of his enemies, and all the rest of dispossession gave é distributed to
all nations, according to their quality and services. And that was known by the roundness and
district this city the great splendor of the Lord and knew how to gratify the services, there
in all round great satisfaction, and so they will come many chiefs
and people to be I offer all parts and have the Lord.

And while Inca Yupanqui in this way and have heard, a messenger came to him a captain his, that
this was in the custody of the city, two miles of it, trying to know his enemies what they were
doing on the board do it together, for which he sent him to say, that masters who escaped the battle
fled Uscovilca Matos to do, now you have heard, Xaquixaguana orchestras and redone in natural
and confederates with her, and that of their land I had been a lot of people and relief, and
that ansimismo arrived there were already four other Uscovilca captains Paucaray that he will
discover winters Condesuyo provinces é Andesuyo, which history has
told you, that as we were all together, they left another daily in
the morning to give him battle, and to avenge the death of his master
Uscovilca.

Known by the new Inca Yupanqui, ordered three good friends and to the chiefs and gentlemen in his
court and had been service, which then together the people of war and the right to bring forth out
of the field, each with their weapons, and that included all one by one. And removed and counted,
they found the number one hundred thousand men of war, which he had gathered people for the
great reputation of Se released.

And they say that the enemies who were about two hundred miles men. And thus, Inca Yupanqui sent
four squadrons that were made this her people, sending each chief lord of the Indians who
were there, were leaders of their people, and so scattered, [Name?] By generals of the three
companies to his three good friends, taking for himself the one of them, and they provide all
the necessary weapons, ordered to march his field in search of his enemies who, as they knew they
were coming out of Cuzco, turned about to return Xaquixaguana to where he waited. And the Inca
Yupanqui with his people, the day of battle, as he saw the sight of their enemies, and break and
front with them, say that again face back to see his people and squads, which were divided
and each by itself [And] say that so many people saw him at that
time had arrived to help him, which have failed, and his enemies afrontóse
took them in half and giving them everywhere that was so cruel and
so fierce the battle, which began already high sun, it would be to
When ten, according to them they say, and he was known Vespers della
victory by Inca Yupanqui, where they were killed by the Inca Yupanqui
more than thirty thousand men, and Chance, who were the enemy, was
no man to life, among whom were that the natives had gone Xaquixaguana,
and had made censering [31] the hair.

And called the victory and defeated the battle, they parted to one side all of Xaquixaguana, and
everyone went in front of Inca Yupanqui, and echáronsele by land, to which the Inca Yupanqui
wanted to kill to have seen the death of their own. Inca Yupanqui it defended himself, saying
he should not kill, if the Chancas had been found, it would for being the gasket in the ground, and
they could not do anything, and they were saying ansímismo the same words and gave the same satisfaction.
And then sent Inca Yupanqui, that because were dried apricots, then they were shorn her hair
and so they themselves were shorn all, seeing the will of the Inca and seeing them to worship
in it, and brought Becausethe Inca Yupanqui and Cuzco was twirling ride. And this was done,
commanded them that they were all his people, and to live in peace, and he ordered his captains
not consenting to aquesta of Xaquixaguana they should be made no anger or being taken, any
thing, and if anything of their estates in that they were taken spoil, then the hiciesen return.
 'In
one point, however, this person fails to perceive how the arrangement could be amiably conducted
in Fow Hou. The one who is addressing you maintains, as a matter of right, a position of exceptional
respect, nor, if he must express himself upon such a detail, are his excessively fatiguing
duties entirely unremunerative...'

"'In the case of the distinguished and unalterable Mandarin,' exclaimed Ming-hi, with no appearance
of hesitation, 'the matter would of necessity be arranged otherwise. Being from that time,
as it were, the controller of the destinies and remunerations of all those in Fow Hou, he would,
manifestly, be outside the working of the scheme; standing apart and regulating, like the person
who turns the handle of the corn-mill, but does not suffer himself to be drawn between the
stones, he could still maintain both his respect and his remuneration unaltered.'

"'If the detail could honourably be regarded in such a light,' said Chan Hung, 'this person
would, without delay, so rearrange matters in Fow Hou, and thereby create universal justice
and an unceasing contentment within the minds of all.'

"'Undoubtedly such a course could be justly followed,' assented Ming-hi, 'for in precisely
that manner of working was the complete scheme revealed to this highly-favoured person.'

"Entirely wrapped up in thoughts concerning the inception and manner of operation of this project
Chan Hung began to retrace his steps towards the Yamen, failing to observe in his benevolent
abstraction of mind, that the unaffectedly depraved person Ming-hi was stretching out his feet
towards him and indulging in every other form of low-minded and undignified contempt.

"Before he reached the door of his residence the Mandarin overtook one who occupied a high
position of confidence and remuneration in the Department of Public Fireworks and Coloured
Lights. Fully assured of this versatile person's enthusiasm on behalf of so humane and charitable
a device, Chan Hung explained the entire matter to him without delay, and expressly desired
that if there were any details which appeared capable of improvement, he would declare himself
clearly regarding them.

"'Alas!' exclaimed the person with whom the Mandarin was conversing, speaking in so unfeignedly
disturbed and terrified a voice that several who were passing by stopped in order to learn
the full circumstance, 'have this person's ears been made the object of some unnaturally light-minded
demon's ill-disposed pastime, or does the usually well-balanced Chan Hung in reality contemplate
so violent and un-Chinese an action? What but evil could arise from a single word of the change
which he proposes to the extent of a full written book? The entire fixed nature of events would
become reversed; persons would no longer be fully accountable to one another; and Fow Hou being
thus thrown into a most unendurable state of confusion, the protecting Deities would doubtless
withdraw their influence, and the entire region would soon be given over to the malicious guardianship
of rapacious and evilly-disposed spirits. Let this person entreat the almost invariably clear-sighted
Chan Hung to return at once to his adequately equipped and sumptuous Yamen, and barring well
the door of his inner chamber, so that it can only be opened from the outside, partake of several
sleeping essences of unusual strength, after which he will awake in an undoubtedly refreshed
state of mind, and in a condition to observe matters with his accustomed diamond-like penetration.'

"'By no means!' cried one of those who had stopped to learn the occasion of the incident--a
very inferior maker of unserviceable imitation pigtails--'the devout and conscientious-minded
Mandarin Chan Hung speaks as the inspired mouth-piece of the omnipotent Buddha, and must, for
that reason, be obeyed in every detail. This person would unhesitatingly counsel the now invaluable
Mandarin to proceed to his well-constructed residence without delay, and there calling together
his entire staff of those who set down his spoken words, put the complete Heaven-sent plan
into operation, and beyond recall, before he retires to his inner chamber.'

"Upon this there arose a most inelegant display of undignified emotions on the part of the
assembly which had by this time gathered together. While those who occupied honourable and
remunerative positions very earnestly entreated the Mandarin to act in the manner which had
been suggested by the first speaker, others--who had, in the meantime, made use of imagined
figures, and thereby discovered that the proposed change would be greatly to their advantage--raised
shouts of encouragement towards the proposal of the pigtail-maker, urging the noble Mandarin
not to become small in the face towards the insignificant few who were ever opposed to enlightened
reform, but to maintain an unflaccid upper lip, and carry the entire matter through to its
destined end. In the course of this very unseemly tumult, which soon involved all persons present
in hostile demonstrations towards each other, both the Mandarin and the official from the Fireworks
and Coloured Lights Department found an opportunity to pass away secretly, the former to consider
well the various sides of the matter, towards which he became better disposed with every thought,
the latter to find a purchaser of his appointment and leave Fow Hou before the likelihood of
Chan Hung's scheme became generally known.

"At this point an earlier circumstance, which affected the future unrolling of events to no
insignificant degree, must be made known, concerning as it does Lila, the fair and very accomplished
daughter of Chan Hung. Possessing no son or heir to succeed him, the Mandarin exhibited towards
Lila a very unusual depth of affection, so marked, indeed, that when certain evil-minded ones
endeavoured to encompass his degradation, on the plea of eccentricity of character, the written
papers which they dispatched to the high ones at Peking contained no other accusation in support
of the contention than that the individual in question regarded his daughter with an obvious
pride and pleasure which no person of well-balanced intellect lavished on any but a son. One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant
with instructions to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his
desk, he was on the ground floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided to
climb. The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.

He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor and a table in the center where
the first daughter of the lords of Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt dress with no appropriate
to their category. A vestidillo frayed and a handkerchief tied around
the waist as the artisans; slippers on his feet quite used.

Did not blush because the young man found in that herding or as low
occupancy, and cried like many others would do in your case:

- Jesus,
how I found you! - Bringing his hands to the hair and throat.

Not so.

A moment suspended their work, smiled sweetly and waited for the
young speak.

- Good afternoon - he said, turning red.

- Good afternoon,
Gonzalo - she replied.

- Can you see your dad?

- I do not know if
you are at home.

I'll see - said the young, leaving the iron on the table and passing ahead of him.

When they had gone a bit, he turned to ask:

- Does your guy is good?

- Yes, ma'am, yes ... I mean, no ... For some days not getting out
of bed ... Has a bad cold.

- Do not be a thing of care?

- I think
not, ma'am.

The young man went on his way smiling. It amused him to call her Mrs. Gonzalo having no met sixteen
years and counting more than twenty. Both, without having spoken "large" became known as if
they were brothers. They met every day in the street, on the promenade, in theater, in church.
"From small" Cecilia recalled one afternoon in the pilgrimage giraldilla Elorrio dancing with
other girls her age, came to a rogue hinder them, pulling hair from the outside, pushing hard
and getting in the ring shouting to them missing a beat. Gonzalo, who was a big boy of thirteen
years, seeing coarseness that ugly, came to his aid, and will kick, punch comes one soplamocos
and puñada to another in an instant dispersal got three or four lads rude. The eyes of the tiny
dancers watched him with admiration. In those hearts female was five to ten years ever recorded
for not erase a feeling of gratitude to the heroic young man. Again, years later, a day of San
Juan, Gonzalo gave her sloop and her family to walk by the sea as the boats and boats were
scarce in such occasion. But none of these circumstances engendered the treatment of them. If
found very front, Gonzalo used to take his hat, otherwise passed by or not the saw, despite knowledge,
if not close friendship, which his uncle had with Mr. Belinchón.
 This useful accomplishment was, in
a measure, the direct means of bringing together the person in question and the engaging Lila;
for, on a certain occasion, when Lee Sing was passing through the streets of Fow Hou, he heard
a great outcry, and beheld persons of all ranks running towards him, pointing at the same time
in an upward direction. Turning his gaze in the manner indicated, Lee beheld, with every variety
of astonishment, a powerful and unnaturally large bird of prey, carrying in its talons the
lovely and now insensible Lila, to whom it had been attracted by the magnificence of her raiment.
The rapacious and evilly-inspired creature was already above the highest dwelling-houses when
Lee first beheld it, and was plainly directing its course towards the inaccessible mountain
crags beyond the city walls. Nevertheless, Lee resolved upon an inspired effort, and without
any hesitation bounded towards it with such well-directed proficiency, that if he had not stretched
forth his hand on passing he would inevitably have been carried far above the desired object.
In this manner he succeeded in dragging the repulsive and completely disconcerted monster to
the ground, where its graceful and unassuming prisoner was released, and the presumptuous bird
itself torn to pieces amid continuous shouts of a most respectful and engaging description
in honour of Lee and of his versatile attainment.

"In consequence of this incident the grateful Lila would often deliberately leave the society
of the rich and well-endowed in order to accompany Lee on his journeys in pursuit of exceptionally-precious
winged insects. Since I had money hand,
quickly became a regular cockpit. Commissioned many of the roosters English to Antequera because he
was informed that there cultivated the finest and purest blood. Were trained in the care and preparation
of the roosters to fight. In all animals imposed mythological names and legendary Achilles, money,
Ulysses, colorado, Hector, hen, Hercules, black, Roldán, gold; Manfredo, ash, Charlemagne, also black,
etc.., Etc. In the other cockpits abounded Bullfighters names. Every Sunday morning, after
Mass eleven, because he believed in God and providence, though in this world there is no justice,
no plan, no sense, Apollonius was heading to the circus gallista, followed by an apprentice with
where they were able to roosters to fight that day missed. Intervened in the preliminary examination
and weight of the combatants, and scrutinizing with such scruples, seriousness and the balance
device, as if it were deciding the future of humanity. Then, you had to see how religious pomp
and gloomy mood, sitting behind the door, wiping spurs gallo with half a lemon, for mundificarlas,
if they were poisoned, and then wiped with his handkerchief, and finally, gently deposited
on the cock ring, as saying: est boasts random, and there is no earthly power to deflect the will
of the Fates. And the will of fate was, inevitably, that Apollonius cocks are dead or badly
wounded. A Lagartijo Ulysses killed him, Hector, Bocanegra; Mazzantini porridge made Roldán Achilles
went blind in a stabbing that put Frascuelo, and a rooster of mixed blood and ruin, white, called
Espartero, owned by a carpenter, Charlemagne annihilated, Manfredo, Hercules and six other hapless
heroes. Surprisingly, Apolonio attended without anger, before with pride, at the expiration
of his roosters. The essential thing was that he never sang the hen died they had to die, the
hero always dies in the end, not at the hands of other heroes, but for the vile dagger. His cock
always gave the chest, the others were a cowardly tactic combat, simulated run around the ring,
and the more confident was the hero in pursuit, unexpectedly turned traitor and gave lunges.
 As this form of entertainment is undoubtedly very remunerative in its
results, could not the versatile and ready-witted Lee conceal himself within the skin of a
bear, or some other untamed beast, and in this garb, joining them unperceived, play an appointed
part and receive a just share of the reward?'

"'The result of such an enterprise might, if the matter chanced to take an unforeseen development,
prove of a very doubtful nature,' replied Lee Sing, to whom, indeed, the proposed venture appeared
in a somewhat undignified light, although, with refined consideration, he withheld such a thought
from Lila, who had proposed it for him, and also confessed that her usually immaculate father
had taken part in such an exhibition. 'Nevertheless, do not permit the dark shadow of an inward
cloud to reflect itself upon your almost invariably amiable countenance, for this person has
become possessed of a valuable internal suggestion which, although he has hitherto neglected,
being content with a small but assured competency, would doubtless bring together a serviceable
number of taels if rightly utilized.'

"'Greatly does this person fear that the valuable internal suggestion of Lee Sing will weigh
but lightly in the commercial balance against the very rapidly executed pictures of Pe-tsing,'
said Lila, who had not fully recalled from her mind a disturbing emotion that Lee would have
been well advised to have availed himself of her ingenious and well-thought-out suggestion.
'But of what does the matter consist?'

"'It is the best explained by a recital of the circumstances leading up to it,' said Lee. 'Upon
an occasion when this person was passing through the streets of Fow Hou, there gathered around
him a company of those who had, on previous occasions, beheld his exceptional powers of hurtling
himself through the air in an upward direction, praying that he would again delight their senses
by a similar spectacle. Not being unwilling to afford those estimable persons of the amusement
they desired, this one, without any elaborate show of affected hesitancy, put himself into
the necessary position, and would without doubt have risen uninterruptedly almost into the
Middle Air, had he not, in making the preparatory movements, placed his left foot upon an over-ripe
wampee which lay unperceived on the ground. In consequence of this really blameworthy want
of caution the entire manner and direction of this short-sighted individual's movements underwent
a sudden and complete change, so that to those who stood around it appeared as though he were
making a well-directed endeavour to penetrate through the upper surface of the earth. This
unexpected display had the effect of removing the gravity of even the most aged and severe-minded
persons present, and for the space of some moments the behaviour and positions of those who
stood around were such that they were quite unable to render any assistance, greatly as they
doubtless wished to do so. Being in this manner allowed a period for inward reflexion of a
very concentrated order, it arose within this one's mind that at every similar occurrence which
he had witnessed, those who observed the event had been seized in a like fashion, being very
excessively amused. The fact was made even more undoubted by the manner of behaving of an exceedingly
stout and round-faced person, who had not been present from the beginning, but who was affected
to a most incredible extent when the details, as they had occurred, were made plain to him,
he declaring, with many references to the Sacred Dragon and the Seven Walled Temple at Peking,
that he would willingly have contributed a specified number of taels rather than have missed
the diversion. When at length this person reached his own chamber, he diligently applied himself
to the task of carrying into practical effect the suggestion which had arisen in his mind.
By an arrangement of transparent glasses and reflecting surfaces--which, were it not for a
well-defined natural modesty, he would certainly be tempted to describe as highly ingenious--he
ultimately succeeded in bringing about the effect he desired.'

"With these words Lee put into Lila's hands an object which closely resembled the contrivances
by which those who are not sufficiently powerful to obtain positions near the raised platform,
in the Halls of Celestial Harmony, are nevertheless enabled to observe the complexions and
attire of all around them. Regulating it by means of a hidden spring, he requested her to follow
closely the actions of a heavily-burdened passerby who was at that moment some little distance
beyond them. Scarcely had Lila raised the glass to her eyes than she became irresistibly amused
to a most infectious degree, greatly to the satisfaction of Lee, who therein beheld the realization
of his hopes. Not for the briefest space of time would she permit the object to pass from her,
but directed it at every person who came within her sight, with frequent and unfeigned exclamations
of wonder and delight.

"'How pleasant and fascinating a device is this!' exclaimed Lila at length. 'By what means
is so diverting and gravity-removing a result obtained?'

"'Further than that it is the concentration of much labour of continually trying with glasses
and reflecting surfaces, this person is totally unable to explain it,' replied Lee. 'The chief
thing, however, is that at whatever moving object it is directed--no matter whether a person
so observed is being carried in a chair, riding upon an animal, or merely walking--at a certain
point he has every appearance of being unexpectedly hurled to the ground in a most violent
and mirth-provoking manner. Would not the stout and round-faced one, who would cheerfully have
contributed a certain number of taels to see this person manifest a similar exhibition, unhesitatingly
lay out that sum to secure the means of so gratifying his emotions whenever he felt the desire,
even with the revered persons of the most dignified ones in the Empire? Is there, indeed, a
single person between the Wall and the Bitter Waters on the South who is so devoid of ambition
that he would miss the opportunity of subjecting, as it were, perhaps even the sacred Emperor
himself to the exceptional feat?'

"'The temptation to possess one would inevitably prove overwhelming to any person of ordinary
intelligence,' admitted Lila. 'Yet, in spite of this one's unassumed admiration for the contrivance,
internal doubts regarding the ultimate happiness of the two persons who are now discussing
the matter again attack her. She recollects, somewhat dimly, an almost forgotten, but nevertheless,
very unassailable proverb, which declares that more contentment of mind can assuredly be obtained
from the unexpected discovery of a tael among the folds of a discarded garment than could,
in the most favourable circumstances, ensue from the well-thought-out construction of a new
and hitherto unknown device. Furthermore, although the span of a year may seem unaccountably
protracted when persons who reciprocate engaging sentiments are parted, yet when the acceptance
or refusal of Pe-tsing's undesirable pledging-gifts hangs upon the accomplishment of a remote
and not very probable object within that period, it becomes as a breath of wind passing through
an autumn forest.'

"Since the day when Lila and Lee had sat together side by side, and conversed in this unrestrained
and irreproachable manner, the great sky-lantern had many times been obscured for a period.
Only an insignificant portion of the year remained, yet the affairs of Lee Sing were in no
more prosperous a condition than before, nor had he found an opportunity to set aside any store
of taels. 

And back to our story, say that after you have done in this province Cacha this miracle, which
passed on, always understanding in his work, as you heard, and as get to a place that now say
the Urcos Tambo, which is six miles from the city of Cuzco, went up to a high hill and sat on top
of him, from where they say they ordered that occur and to depart from that height the natives
who live there to this day. And because this Viracocha had been sitting there, I did in that
place a very rich and sumptuous guaca, which guaca, because he sat in that place that Viracocha,
which put the built a seat of pure gold, and the package in place Deste Viracocha began, he
sat in this seat, which lump of pure gold in the [6] that the Christians did Cuzco when he won [won
or weighed] sixteen or eighteen thousand pesos. And from there the Viracocha parted and came by his
people, as you heard, until he came to Cuzco, where that was reached, they say he made a Lord
to whom his name Alcaviza, and named "Likewise to this site, do the Lord did, Cuzco, and after
leaving Quél pass order as occur dried apricots, broke out doing his work. And reach the province of
Puerto Old, gathered there with his family before him winters in the way and that, where as
there came together, went through the sea along with them, do tell who was he and his ANSI
water-like walking on land. Many other things here more eScript hobiera Deste Viracocha, second
that these Indians have informed me of him, but, to avoid prolixity and large idolatry and bestiality,
not put them, where you leave and talk about the place of the dried apricots in the city of
Cuzco, "Likewise they [use] and follow the bestiality é gentile idolatry and barbaric and
have heard [7].

In the place and say site today and called the great city of Cuzco,
in the province of Peru, in ancient times, rather than the Lords hobiese
apricots, Incas, Capaccuna, they Kings say, there was a small town
thirty small thatched houses and very shabby, and they had thirty
Indians, and Mr. and chief of this village was called Alcaviza; and
dentorno other small this town was a swamp reed [and] herb grass,
which marsh caused springs of water and place the saw do agora is
the strength went out, and this marsh was and is the place to do agora
is the plaza and the homes of the Marquis Don Francisco Pizarro, who,
after the city won, and the same was at the site of the houses Commander
of Hernando Pizarro, and was also swamp the place and do is place
in this city Part of stream della passes through the market or Tianguez,
marina hiring Indian natives thereof.

To which the inhabitants of the village called from their age Cuzco, and what is meant by this
name declare Cozco do not know, but to say that ANSI was formerly named.

And living and residing in this town Alcaviza, the earth opened seven leagues from this cave
people do call today Pacaritambo, says House to produce, and exit this cave had della fit as
a man could crawl out or entering, the cave where, after opened, came four men with their
wives, leaving in this way. Came first Ayar was called Cache and his wife with him, called Mama
Guaco, and after this came another Ayar Oche was called, and after him his wife, who was called
Cura, and after this came another that Ayar called Auca, and his wife, called Ragua Ocllo, and
after them came another one called Ayar Mango, who then called Mango Capac, which means the King
Mango, and after this left his wife called Mama Ocllo, who brought in their hands, inside the
cave, a gold halberds, and they came dressed in a robe of fine wool woven gold, and he took
a bag necks, craves the same wool and gold, very cultivated, in which
took some deep pockets of niervos.

And the women went very well dressed richly, with blankets and sashes, which they call chumbis
very wrought gold, and the very thin gold fillets, which are about two feet long pins they call
topos, and so they took it to service these women who were to serve and cook for food to their
husbands, such as pots and small pots, plates and bowls and cups drink, all of fine gold. Which,
as there were up hill and half a league quest of Cuzco, Guanacaure, and descended from there
back to the Deste hill to a small valley that it is done, where as they were there, they planted
a land of potatoes, food of these Indians, and up the hill one day there Guanacaure to watch
and where was best seat deviser and place to settle, and now the top of the hill, Ayar Cache,
who first came out of the cave, took a sling and a stone put into it and Tirol to a high hill,
and hit which gave, brought down the hill and made it a creek, and threw ansímismo three other
stones, and each made a big ravine in the mountains high; which shots were and are, where the
blow threw far made, according as they fantasize, space league and a half a league.

And seeing these shots of deep three other colleagues, they stood in the strength to think Deste
Ayar Cache, and they parted on a little aside, and ordered him to give way Ayar Cache perceiving
his company, because they parescia was a man of great strength and bravery, and that would
send and subjetaria in time, and agreed to turn from thence to the caves where they had left,
and leaving porquellos had left great riches gold and clothing and more service in the cave,
ordered on caution, they had need Deste service, get back to what Ayar Cache, which said he was happy,
and now the at the door of the cave, Ayar Cache entered agate, or ANSI, as he had left, they
could not get less, and as others might see him inside, took a large slab and output cerráronle
and went door-to-do, and then, with a lot of stone and mortar, made to it at all [in?] a thick
wall, so that when you go out again, and could not stay there. And this finished, they tarried
there until a certain time from then to hear how banged on the slab Ayar Cache inside, he saw
the fellow who could not leave, turned about to seat Guanacaure, where they were all three together
for a year and four women with them, and women Ayar Cache, already
been in the cave, gave him to Ayar Mango, to serve him.

And next year there were fulfilled, Paresce that was not the place which suited them, pasáronse
half a league from there to Cuzco, to another stream, questuvieron another year, and from the
top of the remote portion of this gorge, which is called Matagua, watching the valley of Cuzco
and the people who had Alcaviza town, and it was good site parescióles do that was populated Alcaviza
that town, and were relegated to the site and ranch they had, came in their agreement, and
one of them quel parescióles would stay on the hill of Guanacaure made idol é that those who
remained, were to settle with those who lived in that town and pay homage to he craves to stand
there like an idol, and to speak with the sun, his father, who guard them and the increase and
give children and good winter storms. And then stood up and showed Ayar Oche large wings Quél
said was to be for him to be there on the hill by Guanacaure idol, to talk to the sun their
father. And then rose up the hill, and being already in the site do was to be made idol, took
a flight to Ayar Oche sky, so high that deviser not, and it became there, and said to Ayar Mango,
that there be appointed Mango Capac because he came from where the
sun was gone, and craves the sun sent him the appointment, and that
is descended from there and were the people who had seen and that
date would be good company by the villagers, and to populate it there,
and cure his wife, who gave it to serve him, and chelate taking his
companion Ayar Auca.

And just said that the idol Ayar Oche, it became a stone just as he was, with its wings, and then
fell Auca Ayar Mango Capac and his ranch, and were descended, came where the idol was many Indians
from a village near there, and they saw the idol made stone, which had seen him when the flight
got on top, and in this tiráronle stone stone you broke a wing idol, whence, as I had broken a
wing, could not fly and more, and as he turned to stone they saw, they did not do more anger.

Turning
these Indians that this longing that his people did, Mango Capac and his partner Ayar Auca left their
villages, carrying four women named, and walked for the people of the Cuzco, where he was Alcaviza.
And before they reached the village, two shots musket, was populated a small town, where people
had coca and chili, and the woman Ayar Oche, who was lost in the cave, called Mama Guaco, gave
to an Indian of those on this coca people hit and killed him with a ayllos and opened it suddenly
and took him out of his lungs and heart, and to view the rest of the people, puffed out his
lungs by blowing, and seen by the Indians that case the people had great fear, and with the
fear that had taken, then this hour were fleeing the valley they call today Gualla, whence have
proceeded Indians that benefit today's coca Gualla. And that fact, passed out Mango Capac
and his people, and spoke with Alcaviza, saying that the sun that
populated the winters with him there in that town of Cuzco, and the
Alcaviza, as well as seeing him dressed to him and his company, and
gold halberds in their hands they carried, and other service gold
knew that he craves and they were sons of the sun, and said that village
where they see Paresce.

And the Mango Capac agradescióselo and Paresce well site and do agora seat is in this Cuzco house
and convent of Santo Domingo, who used to be the Casa del Sol and tell the story later, there was
the Mango Capac and his partner, and with the help of the four women, a house without allowing
people Alcaviza assist them, although they wanted help, in whose house they got two of them and
his four wives. And this fact, from then to some Mango Capac time and his companion with his
four wives, a land of corn planted, seed corn which they say have
brought them to the cave, to which the Lord appointed cave Mango Capac,
Pacarictambo, he says, producing House, because, as you heard, say
who left the cave.

Its sowing done, and regocijábanse holgábanse Mango Capac Alcaviza in friendship and contentment.

Dende
to two years there came Mango Capac, Ayar Auca his partner died and the woman was in the company
of others of Mango Capac, without it there hobiese Ayar any child Auca, and so they, Mango Capac
left alone with his wife and three of his companions and said, and without having to do with
any Dell tenella as women to own but his own, in which, from then to little time there was
a son, whom he called Sinchiroca. And when it Sinchiroca youth of fifteen or sixteen years,
his father died Mango Capac, while another child but this was Sinchiroca. Dende É Mango died five
years Capac, died Alcaviza. And as was already twenty years old this Sinchi Roca, son of Mango
Capac, used by women a lady called Mama Coca, daughter of a lord of a village chief quest a
league from Cuzco, called ZANU, which was Mrs. Sinchiroca a son named Lloque Yupanqui. This
Lloque Yupanqui was born with teeth, and then he was born, walked, and never wanted suck, and
then spoke with admiration things, which I Paresce Merlin must have been another, according
to that the fables say. And thus was born like this, he took a stone in the hands and Tirol
Alcaviza descendant of another boy who was passing by this, which was water to a source with some
pot in his hands, which Lloque stone Yupanqui, the newly born, the boy broke his leg in Alcaviza
already said, which if the doomsayers said, than fall, this would be great lords Lloque Yupanqui,
and señorearian that town, and that the descendants of those driven from Alcaviza that people
would by Lloque descendants Yupanqui which was well, as history will say later, according to said
that they gave reason dello. And because this Lloque Yupanqui did things and this remarkable orchestra,
at the time he lived, we will leave.

And the days after it happened instead of his child, who was called Capac Yupanqui which is said
not to have sought [9] rather be Lloque Yupanqui his father left him. And then of days of it,
came in place of his child was said Mayta Capac, which is said sought
to be failing more than their past.

And after days of it, came into place his child was said Inca Roca Inca, which they say have
been in six women who had, thirty sons and daughters. And after the days dest, came into place
and increased his child the other, called Yaguar Guacac Inca Yupanqui. Deste say he was born crying
blood, and so I called Yaguar Guacac, they say, mourn blood. Deste say they had twenty women,
which had fifty sons and daughters, which say they have not tried more be handed down by his
past.

And after the days dest, came in place of his child called Viracocha Inca, because was very friendly
and affable to his men and ruled very quiet, always giving gifts and making grants. And as this
was craving, amábanle their own with a strong will, and arose a day in the morning, left his men
cheerful, and asking what his own who rejoiced, say they responded that he had spoken Pachayachachic
Viracocha that night, saying that God had spoken that night (well) and then raised all his
family and called him Inca Viracocha, which means King and God, and from there was appointed
this name.

At the time of this Viracocha Inca lords had over two hundred chiefs of villages and provinces,
fifty or sixty leagues in the roundness of this city of Cuzco, which was entitled and appointed
in their land and villages Inca Capac, which means lords and kings, and so towards this Viracocha
Inca, é intitulábase, as above diximos, God where others saw And those gentlemen who was entitled
to be that none of them more. And as a lady of this, of Chanca nation, which was said Uscovilca,
who was lord of a large sum of people and had Seys very brave captain,
his subjects, who were called Malma [10] and one Rapa, and another
Yanavilca [11] Teclovilca and another and another Guamanguaraca, and
another Tomayguaraca, and this Uscovilca, as had news resided in Cuzco
Inca Viracocha and is entitled to greater lord than he, being The
most powerful people and entitled him Lord of all the earth, as it
seemed good to see what power was that of Viracocha Inca, and to see
that, while this Uscovilca in the town of Paucaray [12], which is
three leagues of PARC, entered into consultation with his people what
order debiesen have for this fact, and seeing that his power was great,
agreed in their agreement that debian go to their captains to find
out the parts of provinces Condesuyo é, é ansímismo by the of Andesuyo
to the same, and that he ansímismo, with two masters of their own
and with people you stay, come by these two art provinces straight
to the city of Cuzco, and in this way would be Lord of all the earth,
and that he would subject his hand Viracocha Inca.

And thus, out of his agreement, and after he left hobo, he commanded for a day signal is coupled
all the people in that place and plain Paucaray [13], where he was natural and so they got together
all his family the day that it was commanded. And being ANSI time, he commanded his captains
hiciesen three parts all those people, and now the sections and made of three parts, mandolin
supplying arms to all who were spears, halberds and axes, and clubs and slings and ayllos and
shields, of which, being already provided Deste necessary, he commanded them to provide many
maintenance on its path, such as dried meat, and corn, and dried fish and other foods, making
grace and mercy of all the plunder in war hobiesen livestock, clothing and gold and silver
women and other parts é é yanaconas craves hobiesen the war. And giving a share of this people
to the captains of their own, who called Irapa Malma and [14], to
whom he sent they then departed, and were conquered by the province
as far Condesuyo they found that people could win.

And thus it was these two captains and said, bringing people and said, and fired while the Lord
gave him great thanks and praises, ANSI masters like other people, for the favor to them was made
of plunder. And thus these two captains were conquering Irapa Malma and the province of Condesuyo, bringing
great power of people, and so was the chance of these two art masters, who won e Subject Paucaray DeSdel
people going through the province of Condesuyo, until they reached the said fifty leagues beyond
the Charcas.

We leave these captains and discuss the other two that he sent the Uscovilca ansímismo Andesuyo part,
which is called Yana and Toquello Vilca Vilca [15] whom when give them their Lord Uscovilca
the other party of people, left Paucaray there, to whom, departing, they were commanded by Uscovilca
not arrived to Cuzco with ten leagues, but pasasen sections of, Becausethe Uscovilca wanted this
company in Cuzco for himself. And thus, the Apart from these two masters, getting by the province
of Condesuyo, winning and conquering provinces to arrive at the Chiriguanos, where we shall
leave and discuss Uscovilca.
 It defined in
a very original and profound manner several undisputable principles, and was so engagingly
subtle in its manner of expression that the most superficial person was irresistibly thrown
into a deep inward contemplation upon reading it. When it was complete, the person who had
contrived this ingenious masterpiece, discovering by means of omens that he still had ten years
to live, devoted each remaining year to the task of reducing the sentence by one word without
in any way altering its meaning. This unapproachable example of conciseness found such favour
in the eyes of those who issue printed leaves that as fast as this person could inscribe stories
containing it they were eagerly purchased; and had it not been for a very incapable want of
foresight on this narrow-minded individual's part, doubtless it would still be affording him
an agreeable and permanent means of living.

"Unquestionably the enlightened Wen-weng was well acquainted with the subject when he exclaimed,
'Better a frugal dish of olives flavoured with honey than the most sumptuously devised puppy-pie
of which the greater portion is sent forth in silver-lined boxes and partaken of by others.'
At that time, however, this versatile saying--which so gracefully conveys the truth of the
undeniable fact that what a person possesses is sufficient if he restrain his mind from desiring
aught else--would have been lightly treated by this self-conceited story-teller even if his
immature faculties had enabled him fully to understand the import of so profound and well-digested
a remark.

"At that time Tiao Ts'un was undoubtedly the most beautiful maiden in all Peking. So frequently
were the verses describing her habits and appearances affixed in the most prominent places
of the city, that many persons obtained an honourable livelihood by frequenting those spots
and disposing of the sacks of written papers which they collected to merchants who engaged
in that commerce. Owing to the fame attained by his written sentence, this really very much
inferior being had many opportunities of meeting the incomparable maiden Tiao at flower-feasts,
melon-seed assemblies, and those gatherings where persons of both sexes exhibit themselves
in revolving attitudes, and are permitted to embrace openly without reproach; whereupon he
became so subservient to her charms and virtues that he lost no opportunity of making himself
utterly unendurable to any who might chance to speak to, or even gaze upon, this Heaven-sent
creature.

"So successful was this person in his endeavour to meet the sublime Tiao and to gain her conscientious
esteem that all emotions of prudence forsook him, or it would soon have become apparent even
to his enfeebled understanding that such consistent good fortune could only be the work of
unforgiving and malignant spirits whose ill-will he had in some way earned, and who were luring
him on in order that they might accomplish his destruction. That object was achieved on a certain
evening when this person stood alone with Tiao upon an eminence overlooking the city and watched
the great sky-lantern rise from behind the hills. Under these delicate and ennobling influences
he gave speech to many very ornamental and refined thoughts which arose within his mind concerning
the graceful brilliance of the light which was cast all around, yet notwithstanding which a
still more exceptional and brilliant light was shining in his own internal organs by reason
of the nearness of an even purer and more engaging orb. There was no need, this person felt,
to hide even his most inside thoughts from the dignified and sympathetic being at his side,
so without hesitation he spoke--in what he believes even now must have been a very decorative
manner--of the many thousand persons who were then wrapped in sleep, of the constantly changing
lights which appeared in the city beneath, and of the vastness which everywhere lay around.

"'O Kai Lung,' exclaimed the lovely Tiao, when this person had made an end of speaking, 'how
expertly and in what a proficient manner do you express yourself, uttering even the sentiments
which this person has felt inwardly, but for which she has no words. Why, indeed, do you not
inscribe them in a book?'

"Under her elevating influence it had already occurred to this illiterate individual that it
would be a more dignified and, perhaps, even a more profitable course for him to write out
and dispose of, to those who print such matters, the versatile and high-minded expressions
which now continually formed his thoughts, rather than be dependent upon the concise sentence
for which, indeed, he was indebted to the wisdom of a remote ancestor. Tiao's spoken word fully
settled his determination, so that without delay he set himself to the task of composing a
story which should omit the usual sentence, but should contain instead a large number of his
most graceful and diamond-like thoughts. So engrossed did this near-sighted and superficial
person become in the task (which daily seemed to increase rather than lessen as new and still
more sublime images arose within his mind) that many months passed before the matter was complete.
In the end, instead of a story, it had assumed the proportions of an important and many-volumed
book; while Tiao had in the meantime accepted the wedding gifts of an objectionable and excessively
round-bodied individual, who had amassed an inconceivable number of taels by inducing persons
to take part in what at first sight appeared to be an ingenious but very easy competition connected
with the order in which certain horses should arrive at a given and clearly defined spot. By
that time, however, this unduly sanguine story-teller had become completely entranced in his
work, and merely regarded Tiao-Ts'un as a Heaven-sent but no longer necessary incentive to
his success. With every hope, therefore, he went forth to dispose of his written leaves, confident
of finding some very wealthy person who would be in a condition to pay him the correct value
of the work.

"At the end of two years this somewhat disillusionized but still undaunted person chanced to
hear of a benevolent and unassuming body of men who made a habit of issuing works in which
they discerned merit, but which, nevertheless, others were unanimous in describing as 'of no
good.' Here this person was received with gracious effusion, and being in a position to impress
those with whom he was dealing with his undoubted knowledge of the subject, he finally succeeded
in making a very advantageous arrangement by which he was to pay one-half of the number of
taels expended in producing the work, and to receive in return all the profits which should
result from the undertaking. Those who were concerned in the matter were so engagingly impressed
with the incomparable literary merit displayed in the production that they counselled a great
number of copies being made ready in order, as they said, that this person should not lose
by there being any delay when once the accomplishment became the one topic of conversation
in tea-houses and yamens. From this cause it came about that the matter of taels to be expended
was much greater than had been anticipated at the beginning, so that when the day arrived on
which the volumes were to be sent forth this person found that almost his last piece of money
had disappeared.

"Alas! how small a share has a person in the work of controlling his own destiny. X.

Ecclesiastic Council and parish priests ISLANDS.

Although this area seems oblivious of this paper, it is not, and readers will be convinced this truth,
knowing that from the archbishop and three bishops suffragan, to the last pastor all have
a fixed salary or allowance, they charge, like any other employee of the Government, boxes of
the national treasury, so if you were to try to their powers, jurisdiction and powers, surely
this was not the most remarkable place for this purpose; but when nothing was going to say on these
points, and only going to be considered some members who are in the distribution of public funds,
no more appropriate occasion to discuss the matter at the end of the 2nd part of this report
on all of it to the national treasury, and request the relevant economies,
as indicated in other classes.

The only cathedral chapter in the Philippines there is in Manila, and has five dignities three
dispensations, two meals and two half portions, chaplains chorus, & c., endowed with enough
profession such perks, nothing more just to reform their allowances, bearing in mind for which
it previously enjoyed in the days of the galleon of Acapulco, and knowing that emancipated
the Americas, those allocations have been increased with little reason and justice. This increase
in annual allocation to the perks, I have understood is verified pretext loss or grief that
they suffered from the lack of the amount of slip that they had in the Nao when it is completed,
which they sold to trade, and thus had a bonus, but the same loss and grief suffered perpetual rejidores
municipality of Manila, which quantities purchased by thick beds, and nor are they satisfied with
the Government have their capitals, nor have they been compensated for their losses otherwise real
and effective: in addition to the rejidores, had an equal right to ballot for widows and orphans
of soldiers and others in need, and have not received any compensation for such loss, and perhaps
their only source their livelihood, when the spoils had left them to maintain other Ausilio decency
in them that would serve, with which he or increase for that reason is wrong, or whether it is
fair, the same compensation is due to the rejidores, widows, orphans
and other classes perceived the ballot Ausilio.

Prebendary have their fixed endowment, the intention being free, and also a part of products amounts
that yield the Waqf that manages the council and the turban, and whose revenues distributed among
individuals, according to the foundations: the intention to implement free masses for whom
they are paid (who does not miss so lacking in a Catholic country like the Philippines) is
another resource and not unimportant, because the alms of the masses is not small; and finally,
the revenues earned from the products or Waqf, is the third resource or Ausilio that completes
a fat income, which could well be some reform of the Exchequer, and reduce their allocation
to what was, leveling with justice to all classes that had the ballot in Nao, loss all suffered,
and was compensated only to the class who least needed: well, then, is strict justice that
there be corresponding reduction in the allocation of those perks
and were reduced to what it was before the loss of the galleon, or
the primitive marking of income.

Pastors, so regular and secular, the only reform needed in relation to the provision they receive
from the treasury, the only concept to which they are considered here, is that they level
off and equally and be given a fixed rule on their stipends and allowances, taking into account
the lucrative foot of the altar of some, as being all exclusively dedicated to serving Spiritual
to the same ministry, there is enormous inequality in the enjoyment of assignment: the reason why
in some provinces are paid in cash, other half in cash and half in kind (rice), and in other part in
cash and two species, or vice-versa, with great variety in terms of everything, and if this measure
in principle might be, as indeed can ensure it was very beneficial for pastors interested to
help and stimulus that the Indians to promote agriculture, and the day is bad, because the kind
to be Pastors receive, worth a double or more than their fair share, and was worth when setting
these allocations, and this is without prejudice to the taxpayers for the state. On this particular
there have been several complaints and has even tried to level them more than once and set a fee
determined by means of a General-rule for all provinces, although in some variation has been
made, not all did the same, old prevail vices or abuses. It is therefore necessary that the
state allowance paid to parish priests alike in all the islands, and that nothing be paid in
kind. The Indians must be free in selling off as and when they see fit, any other rule, on unjust,
can not but be burdensome to the treasury.

On the increase or decrease of stipends, nothing can be said with fixed data, or no fear of having
mistakes that may be of importance: only warn that pastors who are assigned to missions, which is
to form new towns, attracting and catechesis infidels to the Indians in various parts of the
islands there, are poorly equipped, and were it not for the other relijiosos Ausilio and his
friends or benefactors, hardly could survive, and all that still have to spend many days to prepare
and cultivate a piece of land, forming a little rice planting provided bread for year, and
hunt deer, to make jerky or salon, call in the country cover, and by this means eating some
meat, they are many straits and not passing easy to remedy.

Also be said that the pastors of small towns suffering many hardships, because the foot of the
altar anything they produce, and deserved, as well as those for missions, some consideration in pointing
out their stipends, which could aumentárseles stooping to anything the Pastors of larger towns,
or to move from 2000 taxes, but in these, although their expenses are more significant, having
to maintain one, two or more coadjutor, but her foot altar is more fat, do not miss alms for
Masses, and stipends up enough, the can rebajárseles somewhere to attend to the poor pastors
and missionaries. That conclude, this reform appears to be founded, and even just for the benefit
of leveling the best way possible and without charge of the treasury, the distribution of
property among the priests, because all devoted to that high and important ministry, nothing
else just to give them the means more analogous to preserve decency and dignity of their state
which corresponds with the most fair proportion as possible, may be as indicated, and so continue
until the increase of population claiming to vary the method is established.

These are the basics that I can deliver on the administration and distribution of public finances
in the Philippines and I am convinced that (even if poorly coordinated and not very full because
the shortness of my lights do not give of himself otherwise, the narrowness with which I have
proposed writing them does not support more digressions, and habérseme astray some interesting papers,
prevent me from providing more data) have some important news that can be form some idea of
​​the merit of those islands, and the Government take some measures reform the state of the
Philippine Islands happiness demand for them, expanse and promotion of their income, and establish
fair economies, housing is to increase employee and trying to reduce them to purely accurate and
indispensable, if they have to make savings possible, if at all times should be sought in the current
shortages and hardship for backwardness of the state, is more desirable, necessary and required
all fair economy Jenera and rational.

APPENDIX.

Of the Waqf of the Islands.

Under this denomination there is inflow, that while some want to present it as something of great
moment and importance, there are those who Propal be immense wealth, and although should despise
those who try to reduce that capital alone is also wise to listen prevention with the exaggerations
of others and phrases that make them. These charitable works are small banks to borrow funds
which come under the guarantees are agreed the that your business needs monetary Ausilio, given
by neighbors to be be brothers of the respective corporations whose charge they are, under
certain rules, regulations or statutes that make the respective obligations,
and all are nothing more than a executors of the wills of the testators
bequeathed them their funds for for appropriate uses were noted.

The Waqf of Manila or private testers foundations, form a set of capital for proper consideration.
Allocate funds for jiro, their products were taxed pension and charges for objects of divine worship
and public welfare: therefore deserve every consideration of the Government, for the benefits
that agriculture can bring them and industry of the Islands. If the limited jiro and privileges of New Spain
to Manila with no had been reduced to a merely passive transit trade or transport, these establishments
to step to getting rich, they themselves had given to a trade that real wealth. The enormous
value of 200 to 500, and even more, by 100 who left the business in Acapulco Nao, most foreigners
was for traders from India and China, whose effects surti almost all the cargo from the ships,
another large part was for charitable works, because there were years that paid 50 per 100
of the amounts advanced by, so as to traders for Manila was so small a profit, which would
prove a calculation that was done of the many millions of dollars that have been imported in
the Philippines New Spain by Naos, and the low value corresponding to currency and has been
to promote traders in Manila.

At the time of establishment of such foundations was not known other than the Acapulco trade,
India and China, though divided into three Jiros, was a single negotiation, because most part of the
stockpiles made Waqf money in these two markets, giving their resulted in New Spain, for having
ceased completely so that trade with New Spain, ceased at the same time Jiros India and China,
and been reduced to only those objects of consumption in the country. This trade however, although
not under the foot-profit before, may be revived when the affairs of Spain are settled with
the republics of America be formally recognized their independence,
or is opening trade agreements, but will never be what it was.

The founders of these charitable works preveyeron I could not come a day when to cease communication
and trade in the Philippines with New Spain, and given their limited management rules to Jiros
those three classes, as sudden cessation has left idle funds and nswers one thousand continjencias.
Some of these foundations can only have a small part them to award land to others (and is the
most Gen.) do not is this allowed by statute or rules of the founders, and in this state of
affairs is necessary stand that the government authority, so that the objects of the foundations
have proper performance in the most possible to be obtained or a switching of Jiros, and using such
funds for the benefit and promotion of agriculture, industry and factories the country, which
had already received from them an incalculable increase if the big advantages and Acapulco trade
profits would not have attracted so much attention of the founders
toward that destination.

It should be also a political maxim of government to protect these establishments in the capital, which
flows in the event of war or a revolution sudden extraordinary inside
Islands can get out of trouble in the extreme of not having or with
contributions the country, nor the customs revenue and income.

CONCLUSION.

In all aspects, although very light, anyone know the importance of the provinces Philippines,
its extent, wealth, and contains elements that if that country to aggrandize greatly: see
also that the judicial system is mounted under foot the most anomalous complicated and even
harmful, that nothing is easier than reducing the natural order must have, and that no proper
farm economies, and unnecessary for salaries paid, for the grown and even exorbitant number
of employees remaining in existence, have increased, and that if it is not prompt and effective remedy
for this harm, that will country reduced to a state employee and nothing more; class in every nation
should be reduced as possible, so abounding in arms and other labor-intensive
production, agriculture, industry and trade, have the momentum and
encouragement, and hence the full development of wealth and public
prosperity, with the other known joys of a flourishing state.

Philippines with its beautiful and so fertile soil, which no other, and three and a half million
inhabitants, gathers all the elements that may be deemed necessary to be a country of happiness
and wealth. More than three hundred years have passed since the immortal Legaspi set in this
distant rejiones the banner of the cross, and those conquered for Spain Islands [23]. Time and
is already more than enough to think about your happiness, that you remove the obstacles that are
opposed to it, and nothing dubious or misleading evidence is patentice and then see those
people, our brothers, we want prosperity as much as ours; or rather, which is said to their well-being
as our own, and his loyalty purge, no denied until today, it seized the mother country to improve
their lot and condition; as inevitably will happen by the special law will be given, without
prejudice to its just claims are heard and addressed, to ensure that
longs for the mother country and can work as much more expensive,
to ensure the happiness of their provinces in the Philippines.

Finally, after what has been nswer both on and defects in the administration, justice as well
as the farm in those possessions, and remedies that could certainly used to cut abuses, redress
wrongs, and give impetus to the prosperity of the Islands still remains to add that if you like
and you want happiness for those provinces in the good feel like their faith is peace, peace and
public tranquility, taking into account that even has to pass some time [24] until the courts
can deal with the work presented by the Government to make special laws for overseas, very useful,
very convenient and beneficial would to refine those works, ask our bases overseas provinces
what establish new arrangements have to be formulated, discussed and sanctioned. People remarkable
for its capacity, lights and talents, not least for their wealth, have Philippines and the
beautiful West Indies as well be formed in each of these possessions a reunion of people choose
for their talents, honorable history, and guarantees for their capital under the chairmanship
of the governors generals captains, engaged and mail your payment deal to formulate and discuss the
fundamental principles, principles or bases of the reforms more appropriate to guarantee their
safety, property and improvements set the lights call century, and have to drive to the provinces
to develop more healthy and fulfilled its prosperity.

These jobs running piece of cake for this method, as well as forward and much of that whether the
Government should do, would greatly facilitate the early settlement of those laws. The trade
would speak in its field according to their needs, the magistrates in his manifest vices and flaws
in, and remedies that could be used for more rapid and proper administration of justice, the
tax authorities would do the same, and the reverend archbishops and bishops by the clergy would
say about the need for spiritual covenant and media should be taken to its stability, better
distribution and propagation of our faith, for in the Philippines there is still much to conquer
in this part, the municipalities propose on its powers as convenient, not to mention that
on weights and measures is to urjentísimo a law regulating such an interesting subject, as in
the Philippines in pesos and some things rijen measures of Spain, in others those of China, and in
others are adopted by the country, as in the measurement of land, and ultimately, by public interest
in the important branches of agriculture and industry, homeowners who represent them, would ask
provisions analogous to its stability and development. Each in its present line ratios and
estimated data reports of importance and consideration, and with little or no work would be
found the Government with a wealth of news the safest to avoid errors or anything in such
a venture interesting subject, and the overseas provinces in the Government's request, would
see the better disposition and a desire to shape their happiness by means as simple as the
most analogues for success, because of that reunion or advice of people chosen for the case was impossible
for them to come other propositions that the only and alone in its class to improve rejeneracion
the work of his politics, which is needed in the state of illustration
that have and those countries.

"Alas!" he exclaimed, lifting up his voice, when it became plain that a large number of people
was assembled awaiting his words, "to what end does a person strive in this excessively evilly-regulated
district? Or is it that this obscure and ill-destined one alone is marked out as with a deep
white cross for humiliation and ruin? Father, and Sacred Temple of Ancestral Virtues, wherein
the meanest can repose their trust, he has none; while now, being more destitute than the beggar
at the gate, the hope of honourable marriage and a robust family of sons is more remote than
the chance of finding the miracle-working Crystal Image which marks the last footstep of the
Pure One. Yesterday this person possessed no secret store of silver or gold, nor had he knowledge
of any special amount of jade hidden among the mountains, but to his call there responded four
score goats, the most select and majestic to be found in all the Province, of which, nevertheless,
it was his yearly custom to sacrifice one, as those here can testify, and to offer another
as a duty to the Yamen of Ping Siang, in neither case opening his eyes widely when the hour
for selecting arrived. Yet in what an unseemly manner is his respectful piety and courteous
loyalty rewarded! To-day, before this person went forth on his usual quest, there came those
bearing written papers by which they claimed, on the authority of Ping Siang, the whole of
this person's flock, as a punishment and fine for his not contributing without warning to the
Celebration of Kissing the Emperor's Face--the very obligation of such a matter being entirely
unknown to him. Nevertheless, those who came drove off this person's entire wealth, the desperately
won increase of a life full of great toil and uncomplainingly endured hardship, leaving him
only his cave in the rocks, which even the most grasping of many-handed Mandarins cannot remove,
his cloak of skins, which no beggar would gratefully receive, and a bright and increasing light
of deep hate scorching within his mind which nothing but the blood of the obdurate extortioner
can efficiently quench. No protection of charms or heavily-mailed bowmen shall avail him, for
in his craving for just revenge this person will meet witchcraft with a Heaven-sent cause and
oppose an unsleeping subtlety against strength. Therefore let not the innocent suffer through
an insufficient understanding, O Divine One, but direct the hand of your faithful worshipper
towards the heart that is proud in tyranny, and holds as empty words the clearly defined promise
of an all-seeing justice."

Scarcely had Yang Hu made an end of speaking before there happened an event which could be
regarded in no other light than as a direct answer to his plainly expressed request for a definite
sign. Upon the clear air, which had become unnaturally still at Yang Hu's words, as though
to remove any chance of doubt that this indeed was the requested answer, came the loud beating
of many very powerful brass gongs, indicating the approach of some person of undoubted importance.
In a very brief period the procession reached the square, the gong-beaters being followed by
persons carrying banners, bowmen in armour, others bearing various weapons and instruments
of torture, slaves displaying innumerable changes of raiment to prove the rank and consequence
of their master, umbrella carriers and fan wavers, and finally, preceded by incense burners
and surrounded by servants who cleared away all obstructions by means of their formidable and
heavily knotted lashes, the unworthy and deceitful Mandarin Ping Siang, who sat in a silk-hung
and elaborately wrought chair, looking from side to side with gestures and expressions of contempt
and ill-restrained cupidity.

At the sign of this powerful but unscrupulous person all those who were present fell upon their
faces, leaving a broad space in their midst, except Yang Hu, who stepped back into the shadow
of a doorway, being resolved that he would not prostrate himself before one whom Heaven had
pointed out as the proper object of his just vengeance.

When the chair of Ping Siang could no longer be observed in the distance, and the sound of
his many gongs had died away, all the persons who had knelt at his approach rose to their feet,
meeting each other's eyes with glances of assured and profound significance. At length there
stepped forth an exceedingly aged man, who was generally believed to have the power of reading
omens and forecasting futures, so that at his upraised hand all persons became silent.

"Behold!" he exclaimed, "none can turn aside in doubt from the deliberately pointed finger
of Buddha. Henceforth, in spite of the well-intentioned suggestions of those who would shield
him under the plea of exacting orders from high ones at Peking or extortions practised by slaves
under him of which he is ignorant, there can no longer be any two voices concerning the guilty
one. Yet what does the knowledge of the cormorant's cry avail the golden carp in the shallow
waters of the Yuen-Kiang? A prickly mormosa is an adequate protection against a naked man armed
only with a just cause, and a company of bowmen has been known to quench an entire city's Heaven-felt
desire for retribution. This person, and doubtless others also, would have experienced a more
heartfelt enthusiasm in the matter if the sublime and omnipotent Buddha had gone a step further,
and pointed out not only the one to be punished, but also the instrument by which the destiny
could be prudently and effectively accomplished."

From the mountain path which led to Yang Hu's cave came a voice, like an expressly devised
reply to this speech. It was that of some person uttering the "Chant of Rewards and Penalties":

  "How strong is the mountain sycamore!
  "Its branches reach the Middle Air, and the eye of none can pierce
      its foliage;
  "It draws power and nourishment from all around, so that weeds
      alone may flourish under its shadow.
  "Robbers find safety within the hollow of its trunk; its branches
      hide vampires and all manner of evil things which prey upon
      the innocent;
  "The wild boar of the forest sharpen their tusks against the bark,
      for it is harder than flint, and the axe of the woodsman turns
      back upon the striker.
  "Then cries the sycamore, 'Hail and rain have no power against me,
      nor can the fiercest sun penetrate beyond my outside fringe;
  "'The man who impiously raises his hand against me falls by his
      own stroke and weapon.
  "'Can there be a greater or a more powerful than this one?
      Assuredly, I am Buddha; let all things obey me.'
  "Whereupon the weeds bow their heads, whispering among themselves,
      'The voice of the Tall One we hear, but not that of Buddha.
      Indeed, it is doubtless as he says.'
  "In his musk-scented Heaven Buddha laughs, and not deigning to
      raise his head from the lap of the Phoenix Goddess, he thrusts
      forth a stone which lies by his foot.
  "Saying, 'A god's present for a god. Take it carefully, O
      presumptuous Little One, for it is hot to the touch.'
  "The thunderbolt falls and the mighty tree is rent in twain. 'They
      asked for my messenger,' said the Pure One, turning again to
      repose.
  "Lo, he comes!"

With the last spoken word there came into the sight of those who were collected together a
person of stern yet engaging appearance. His hands and face were the colour of mulberry stain
by long exposure to the sun, while his eyes looked forth like two watch-fires outside a wolf-haunted
camp. His long pigtail was tangled with the binding tendrils of the forest, and damp with the
dew of an open couch. His apparel was in no way striking or brilliant, yet he strode with the
dignity and air of a high official, pushing before him a covered box upon wheels.

"It is Tung Fel!" cried many who stood there watching his approach, in tones which showed those
who spoke to be inspired by a variety of impressive emotions. "Undoubtedly this is the seventh
day of the month of Winged Dragons, and, as he specifically stated would be the case, lo! he
has come."

Few were the words of greeting which Tung Fel accorded even to the most venerable of those
who awaited him.

"This person has slept, partaken of fruit and herbs, and devoted an allotted time to inward
contemplation," he said briefly. "Other and more weighty matters than the exchange of dignified
compliments and the admiration of each other's profiles remain to be accomplished. What, for
example, is the significance of the written parchment which is displayed in so obtrusive a
manner before our eyes? Bring it to this person without delay." 

And thus, the left [32], and Inca Yupanqui stayed in the city, and such gentlemen caciques went
from there do Viracocha Inca was right, and after you have done your due compliance, as Inca
Yupanqui had commanded him, told him how the winters Inca Yupanqui there for them to see what
was served that they serve him, and saw them as Inca Viracocha front of him and such a multitude
of lords and so much power, much of it rejoiced because Dell had this great need for favoresciesen
him with some much of his income to build that people there wanted to do: and told them that they
were very welcome, é arose from his seat and embraced them all and it became to sit in his
chair, and commanded them to all that longs to sit down, and commanded them to put many glasses
of chicha, and gave them to drink; and then they brought out a large amount of coca, an herb
prized that they always bring in mouth, which tell the story along grass. And thus divided between
those gentlemen, Viracocha rose standing, [and] considering that as your child masters those
invia and they both loved him and wanted him as Lord, it was just that he ansimismo it will encouraged,
we did some prayer, by which he in turn agradescia them what he and his son had done, and
already knew and had heard that he had been up there Lord of Cuzco, é he had gotten off to
do so for reasons that moved him, and that Inca Yupanqui then on, his son, was to be Lord
in the city of Cuzco, and that to him obey and respect, such as their Lord, and from there he
Desesti logo and real fringe and put it on the head of his son Inca Yupanqui. All of which
is heard by the lords, stood up, and one by one went to him and gave him great thanks, and
showed that rescibian large grant them the fact of such waiver of such dignity and give your son
Inca Yupanqui, which they both loved é wanted by the Lord, and this fact, it turned to sit.

Viracocha
Inca and begged them, that because he wanted there in the Peñol do was build a people, and
that this had need of your help and people, he begged them who had
them well to give that assistance, to which the gentlemen replied
that they had come there so that he could see what they could do him
some service, as Lord Inca Yupanqui had commanded him: and that this
and any other thing he wanted was to send ready for what to do, to
tell them the time and wanted to start the month in which [to] do
its work for them to invest their principal and Indians there that
they might understand the how and hiciesen of such buildings, and
he, meanwhile, give the trace of such people, and make hiciese clay
figure of such buildings, they will inviarian teachers who knew there
doing good ANSI stonework as chelate the way I wanted.

And his son Viracocha (So) was grateful to them all, and then sent out many things, as they
were deep and suitcases of cocaine, and certain pieces of fine clothes and other things between
them very valuable; all of which were brought in front of him, and being, he mesmo there got their
hands and distributed to those men and this fact, he commanded them to drink, and that they be provided
himself distributed a certain amount of coca. And this fact, Viracocha Inca stood up and thanked
them the will and love to him and his son and had showed him, and said the month and time they
had to send his Indians and people to build their people, and so he, Mr. rose on foot, and was staying
with him in winter, and that they had, they made their compliance, and so he will leave of him,
where we will leave, and talk of Inca Yupanqui.

These gentlemen were coming out of where Inca Yupanqui chiefs was, and went to do Viracocha
Inca was, as history has told you, and Inca Yupanqui left alone in the city their own, after having
rested two days, they had already parescióle idleness, E had recreation taken by the exercise
of his person, and so he came out one day in the city tomorrow Cuzco, é carrying the gentlemen
who had him there, he walked all that day land around the city were, and so did another the next
day, [and] after the well have seen and watched, saw the poor distribution é art that while
there his father was they had. The third day, also went looking ansímismo, together with the
gentlemen, the site where the city of Cuzco was founded, all of which, or as dello were swamps
and maniantales, as history has told you, and the houses of the inhabitants
were della é thatched small and poorly built and no proportion of
street art that people had; ANSI well as in the present day near this
city a village called Cayaucachi was At that time the houses and people
that now is the great city of Cuzco.

And Inca Yupanqui saw too badly this town of Cuzco, land ansímismo é Around the crops that
were parescióle, seeing that he had time and a great rig for the new rebuilt, and that first
house in the village hiciese nor the distribution of land, it would be okay and to build a house
in the sun, in whose house verifications and was wearing a package in place and revere the
sun do hiciesen sacrifices because, although they have there is one who is the Maker, whom they
called Viracocha Pachayachachic, says maker the world, and they have it made the sun and all that
is raised in heaven and earth, as we have heard; caresciendo of letters of understanding and being
blind in the know, almost many variants on this at all and everything, which sometimes have
the sun by maker, and sometimes say that the Viracocha, and for the most part, the whole earth
and every province della, as the Devil brings you befuddled, and each party told them they
showed thousand lies and deceptions, and so they brought them deceived
and blind, and in such places do ANSI Vian will they placed stones
in place, whom they revered and worshiped.

And as I say sometimes it was the sun, and to others elsewhere said it was the moon, and to
others that it was their God and Maker, E to others it was their fire that the heat and light,
that they crave é would see the volcanoes of Arequipa [33] in other parts said it was the Lord
who had given Being the world, and was called Pachacamac, he says, Giver of being the world,
and so he's brought, as I have said, deceived and blind.

And back to our history, the Lord Inca Yupanqui, and wanted to make home and shrine whom he revered
and others of his people, Quiros what to do reverence and likeness which had been before his
battle, and considering he craves quel see, whom he called Viracocha, who saw him brightly,
they say, and in such a way that paresció that he was there all day and before the fire, which
saw before him say there was great fear, and never told him who it was, considering it as such,
when this House wanted to build, than that which saw, according to the fire that he had seen,
which was to to be the sun, and how to get there and the first word he said "Son, do not be fear,
"and so they own, as history has told you, he was called after Son of the Sun tiniendo he craves
and what we have heard, proposed to the House of the Sun

And as proposed, called his men and the lords of the city of Cuzco to get there had, and said they
look forward had thought and wanted to build this house, and they
said to give the order and trace the building of it, because such
a house like that, they, the natives and own the city of Cuzco to
the debian build é, é Inca Yupanqui said that house was to be built
then, because he had thought they crave.

And seen him do site paresció it to him better than the house was to be built, he ordered that
there be brought a string, and being so brought, rose up the place do were he and his men, and
now the site do was to be the house built, he himself by his hands with the line measured
and drew the House the Sun, and having drawn, left there with his family and went to a people
who say Salu [34] which is nearly five miles from this city parks do is take the quarries,
and measured the stones for the building of this house, and so he measures in the neighboring
villages began stones them was identified and those were enough for the building of this house,
and together with this, they brought everything else to the building Desta was necessary,
and being already there, put to work building della either ANSI as the Inca Yupanqui had traced
and imagined.

Ando he provided the other lords over the work, watching the builders, and longing as others
working in this building, which work together as there had material and necessities of it, which
was finished in short time.

And as I was finished the other house of the sun that you have heard, then sent Inca Yupanqui
together five hundred women were virgins, and as there were brought, offered him the sun, so that
there are always such to worship the sun and maidens were in there, well ANSI as the nuns are
enclosed, and then, there he called an old man and natural Cuzco that he thought he was honest
and of good examples and fame, which and regiese was there at the Casa del Sol, and to be steward
of the sun and that house. And then there were sent two hundred waiters delivered the sun,
and ansímismo at that time said some land for the sun, who planted these two hundred yanaconas.

And
this fact, Inca Yupanqui sent to the lords of Cuzco, and from there to ten days, they had
much proveimiento rigged corn, sheep and lambs, and ansímismo much fine clothes, and some amount
of children, they call Capacocha, all of which was to make sacrifice sun. And since the ten days
of age and this and all together, Inca Yupanqui ordered a large fire, which sent fire, after
having made slaughter sheep and lambs, which were thrown into it, and other clothing and corn, offering
all the sun, and the children who ANSI had assembled, being well
dressed and seasoned, mandolin buried alive in that house, which was
especially made for where was the bulk of the sun, and with blood
lambs and sheep had taken, he ordered them to be made certain lines
on the walls this house, all of which made it and his three friends
and others, all of which sinificaba way of biendecir and consecrate
this house, in which sacrifice was walking Inca Yupanqui and his companions
Barefoot and showing great reverence to this house and the sun.

É ansímismo with the same people [Blood?] The Inca Yupanqui had some scratches on the face [to]
this man who was identified by steward of this house, and so did those gentlemen, his three
friends, and to the virgins nuns to serve the sun were there. And then ordered that all city,
ANSI men and women, should come and make their sacrifices there to the house of the sun, which
sacrifices craves the common people did was burn some corn and coca craves that fire was made,
entering every one of these one by one and barefoot, looking down, and leaving it craves Salian,
after making his sacrifice, to every one of these on their Inca Yupanqui ordered that Butler
hiciese sun stripe same as you have heard, with the blood of sheep,
in faces of these who craves Salian, whom I was commanded, that from
that time until the bulk of the sun were made of gold, they were all
fasting, and not to eat meat or fish or even his cooking, and reaching
women, nor eat any vegetables, and only eat raw corn and drink chicha,
Sopena that would break the fast, were sacrificed the sun and burned
in the fire itself.

The Inca Yupanqui ordered that fire was always burning night and day, the wood fire which sent Inca
Yupanqui was wrought and while the idol was burned in the fire hiciesen sacrifices, which he commanded
during this time would go all the virgins of the sun, which ansímismo were big and fast the
same as the Inca Yupanqui and other masters.

And this fact and provided, Inca Yupanqui ordered them to come there silversmiths in the city
had, and the best officers, and tackle them all there in the Casas del Sol, I sent that would
make a child-cast solid gold, it was the child's size and proportion of altor a one year old
and naked, for they say that he who would speak when he stood in prayer while in the dream,
to come to him at that figure of a very bright child, and he came to him later, while awake, the
night before the battle to give Uscovilca, as I told you that was so much glare that you saw the
result, which left him no see what shape he was, and so they sent to the idol of the size
and shape of a child aged a year which it took to package a month, which month had the great
sacrifices and fasting.

And this package finished, Inca Yupanqui ordered that the gentleman who had reported by Butler the sun,
take the idol, which he took with many bows, and clothed a T-shirt richly woven with gold and
wool and various tasks, and put him in the head some bond to use and practice of them, then
put a tassel according to the state of the Lords, and della above put a whistle of gold, buckled
on his feet in shoes, uxutas [35] they call ansímismo gold. ANSI standard and the bulk, Inca
Yupanqui arrived to do the bulk was, who was barefoot, and how to get there, made him their
mochas [36] and great reverence, showing great respect, and so he took the bulk of the idol
in his hands and carried him to do was home and instead do it was to be, in whose house was made
a seat, made of wood and well covered with iridescent feathers of birds in different ways and colors,
which and with whom was ornately carved, in which seat put Inca Yupanqui the bulk of the idol.
And being there since, he brought a brazier of gold, and being fired fire him, ordered him
to put before the idol, which did take fire and hearth certain birds and some corn kernels
and pour into the fire that some chicha, all of which said they ate the sun, and that by doing
that, fed him, and from then on it was custom that ordinarily, which
made it that Butler, like ANSI person to eat and drink, craving is
especially careful you had to eat different foods cooking and ways
of delicacies, and so they burned them before, afternoon and in the
morning in braziers gold and silver, as you have already heard.

And from then onwards there worshiped the idol; and do not fall within the idol where it was,
but were the lords, entering with great reverence and veneration, shoes removed and their heads
low, and the Inca Yupanqui entered alone, and he sacrificed his own hand sheep and lambs, making it
the fire and burning the sacrifice. And when he craves he was making the sacrifice, no sir
dared enter, and everyone was in the yard, and there they were doing was their sacrifices and their
mochas and worship. And that the common people worship out there, because they had not to go in
there unless they were gentlemen, and these in the yard, he put through square of Cuzco, where
now is the roll, a stone of the making of a sugar cone, pointed enforrada up and a sheet of
gold which made stone till the day ansímismo he ordered the bulk of the sun, and this stone, so
that the community in worship, and bulk in Casa del Sol, the rulers
whose house was revered and held in great reverence, not only the
package, but the stones and the servants and della della yanaconas
were counted blessed thing and consecrated.

And while the builders, while settling some stone quebróse the juncture of the stone such a piece
as three fingers in width and length, and sent Inca Yupanqui was then there some silver melted
and poured in such a manner and broken stone of it, to come to just what the stone was broken,
all of which was of stone, and the juncture of such stone quarry stone was so crafty settled,
which made parescia streak with a nail on a stone. In which the lords were buried in the courtyards
and rooms, except where the idol was, and the day quel idol was in the house, entered the city,
who do not know and can not innumerable, but they say that while fewer sheep and lambs killed
there, who spent more than five hundred.

Order to finish é Inca Yupanqui had made idols and houses of the sun, that you have hearing,
ordered the city of Cuzco in a certain appointed day they were together in it all lords, chieftains
and principal in the provinces and counties around the city Cuzco lived and had given to him
obidient, for [for] I had some things to communicate with them: and heard by the main control
of Cuzco, then their apricots in the winter provinces and counties that already have heard, with
which command the winters such gentlemen of them command the Inca Yupanqui had done, and that
for that day said they were all to the city.


As Yang Hu passed through the streets of Ching-fow, which were in a great measure deserted
owing to the command of Tung Fel, he was aware of many mournful and foreboding sounds which
accompanied him on all sides, while shadowy faces, bearing signs of intolerable anguish and
despair, continually formed themselves out of the wind. By the time he reached the Yamen a
tempest of exceptional violence was in progress, nor were other omens absent which tended to
indicate that matters of a very unpropitious nature were about to take place.

At each successive door of the Yamen the attendant stepped back and covered his face, so that
he should by no chance perceive who had come upon so destructive a mission, the instant Yang
Hu uttered the sign with which Tung Fel had provided him. In this manner Yang quickly reached
the door of the inner chamber upon which was inscribed: "Let the person who comes with a doubtful
countenance, unbidden, or meditating treachery, remember the curse and manner of death which
attended Lai Kuen, who slew the one over him; so shall he turn and go forth in safety." This
unworthy safeguard at the hands of a person who passed his entire life in altering the fixed
nature of justice, and who never went beyond his outer gate without an armed company of bowmen,
inspired Yang Hu with so incautious a contempt, that without any hesitation he drew forth his
brush and ink, and in a spirit of bitter signification added the words, "'Come, let us eat
together,' said the wolf to the she-goat."

Being now within a step of Ping Siang and the completion of his undertaking, Yang Hu drew tighter
the cords of his mask, tested and proved his weapons, and then, without further delay, threw
open the door before him and stepped into the chamber, barring the door quickly so that no
person might leave or enter without his consent.

At this interruption and manner of behaving, which clearly indicated the nature of the errand
upon which the person before him had come, Ping Siang rose from his couch and stretched out
his hand towards a gong which lay beside him.

"All summonses for aid are now unavailing, Ping Siang," exclaimed Yang, without in any measure
using delicate or set phrases of speech; "for, as you have doubtless informed yourself, the
slaves of tyrants are the first to welcome the downfall of their lord."

"The matter of your speech is as emptiness to this person," replied the Mandarin, affecting
with extreme difficulty an appearance of no-concern. "In what manner has he fallen? And how
will the depraved and self-willed person before him avoid the well-deserved tortures which
certainly await him in the public square on the morrow, as the reward of his intolerable presumptions?"

"O Mandarin," cried Yang Hu, "the fitness and occasion for such speeches as the one to which
you have just given utterance lie as far behind you as the smoke of yesterday's sacrifice.
With what manner of eyes have you frequently journeyed through Ching-fow of late, if the signs
and omens there have not already warned you to prepare a coffin adequately designed to receive
your well-proportioned body? Has not the pungent vapour of burning houses assailed your senses
at every turn, or the salt tears from the eyes of forlorn ones dashed your peach-tea and spiced
foods with bitterness?"

"Alas!" exclaimed Ping Siang, "this person now certainly begins to perceive that many things
which he has unthinkingly allowed would present a very unendurable face to others."

"In such a manner has it appeared to all Ching-fow," said Yang Hu; "and the justice of your
death has been universally admitted. Even should this one fail there would be an innumerable
company eager to take his place. Therefore, O Ping Siang, as the only favour which it is within
this person's power to accord, select that which in your opinion is the most agreeable manner
and weapon for your end."

"It is truly said that at the Final Gate of the Two Ways the necessity for elegant and well-chosen
sentences ends," remarked Ping Siang with a sigh, "otherwise the manner of your address would
be open to reproach. By your side this person perceives a long and apparently highly-tempered
sword, which, in his opinion, will serve the purpose efficiently. Having no remarks of an improving
but nevertheless exceedingly tedious nature with which to imprint the occasion for the benefit
of those who come after, his only request is that the blow shall be an unhesitating and sufficiently
well-directed one."

At these words Yang Hu threw back his cloak to grasp the sword-handle, when the Mandarin, with
his eyes fixed on the naked arm, and evidently inspired by every manner of conflicting emotions,
uttered a cry of unspeakable wonder and incomparable surprise.

"The Serpent!" he cried, in a voice from which all evenness and control were absent. "The Sacred
Serpent of our Race! O mysterious one, who and whence are you?"

Engulfed in an all-absorbing doubt at the nature of events, Yang could only gaze at the form
of the serpent which had been clearly impressed upon his arm from the earliest time of his
remembrance, while Ping Siang, tearing the silk garment from his own arm and displaying thereon
a similar form, continued:

"Behold the inevitable and unvarying birthmark of our race! So it was with this person's father
and the ones before him; so it was with his treacherously-stolen son; so it will be to the
end of all time."

Trembling beyond all power of restraint, Yang removed the mask which had hitherto concealed
his face.

"Father or race has this person none," he said, looking into Ping Siang's features with an
all-engaging hope, tempered in a measure by a soul-benumbing dread; "nor memory or tradition
of an earlier state than when he herded goats and sought for jade in the southern mountains."

"Nevertheless," exclaimed the Mandarin, whose countenance was lightened with an interest and
a benevolent emotion which had never been seen there before, "beyond all possibility of doubting,
you are this person's lost and greatly-desired son, stolen away many years ago by the treacherous
conduct of an unworthy woman, yet now happily and miraculously restored to cherish his declining
years and perpetuate an honourable name and race."

"Happily!" exclaimed Yang, with fervent indications of uncontrollable bitterness. "Oh, my illustrious
sire, at whose venerated feet this unworthy person now prostrates himself with well-merited
marks of reverence and self-abasement, has the errand upon which an ignoble son entered--the
every memory of which now causes him the acutest agony of the lost, but which nevertheless
he is pledged to Tung Fel by the Unutterable Oath to perform--has this unnatural and eternally
cursed thing escaped your versatile mind?"

"Tung Fel!" cried Ping Siang. "Is, then, this blow also by the hand of that malicious and vindictive
person? Oh, what a cycle of events and interchanging lines of destiny do your words disclose!"

"Who, then, is Tung Fel, my revered Father?" demanded Yang.

"It is a matter which must be made clear from the beginning," replied Ping Siang. "At one time
this person and Tung Fel were, by nature and endowments, united in the most amiable bonds of
an inseparable friendship. Presently Tung Fel signed the preliminary contract of a marriage
with one who seemed to be endowed with every variety of enchanting and virtuous grace, but
who was, nevertheless, as the unrolling of future events irresistibly discovered, a person
of irregular character and undignified habits. On the eve of the marriage ceremony this person
was made known to her by the undoubtedly enraptured Tung Fel, whereupon he too fell into the
snare of her engaging personality, and putting aside all thoughts of prudent restraint, made
her more remunerative offers of marriage than Tung Fel could by any possible chance overbid.
In such a manner--for after the nature of her kind riches were exceptionally attractive to
her degraded imagination--she became this person's wife, and the mother of his only son. In
spite of these great honours, however, the undoubted perversity of her nature made her an easy
accomplice to the duplicity of Tung Fel, who, by means of various disguises, found frequent
opportunity of uttering in her presence numerous well-thought-out suggestions specially designed
to lead her imagination towards an existence in which this person had no adequate representation.
Becoming at length terrified at the possibility of these unworthy emotions, obtruding themselves
upon this person's notice, the two in question fled together, taking with them the one who
without any doubt is now before me. Despite the most assiduous search and very tempting and
profitable offers of reward, no information of a reliable nature could be obtained, and at
length this dispirited and completely changed person gave up the pursuit as unavailing. With
his son and heir, upon whose future he had greatly hoped, all emotions of a generous and high-minded
nature left him, and in a very short space of time he became the avaricious and deservedly
unpopular individual against whose extortions the amiable and long-suffering ones of Ching-fow
have for so many years protested mildly. I've heard you lie. Ah, it was
the best shoemaker in Spain. Iban to take the shoes with him to the lords of Bilbao and Barcelona.
In addition, he composed dramas.

That night I left the cafe quite worried. I lay down and soon fell asleep. I heard in the next
room a cough followed by a mighty sigh. It was the voice of Don Guillén. I had an evil idea:
"If tomorrow night I bring to the Pinta and hiciese entering the
room of Don Guillén.

" I fell asleep going around that idea.

The next day, day of vigil, Don Guillen sat at the table.

- What
happens to Mr. Caramanzana? - Vejancona asked the widow, who already
knew the name of the canon.

- Do not eat today because it is slightly
delicate stomach - said Fidel -.

Did you see the color caught in it?

- It is heartburn - that went to Don Celedonio - .Todo the clergy and religious orders have
heartburn, because of the abuse of succulent foods and beverages.

- Calle you herejote - Dona Emerenciana admonished and threatened with her fan.

- And by the way, Fidel, you have not forgotten my job out. I've told the lady I I submit to this disgusting
travesty of the vigil, and in these holy days of Holy Week I meat
and fish.

I promiscuous, or promiscuity, I do not know for sure how to pronounce - said Don Celedonio.

-
Jesus, Mary and Joseph! What Judas Iscariot!

Don Guillén had better not come to the table, because he abochornaría
this abomination.

By the way, Fidel, the waiter, laughed taciturn.

After dinner, I left the metropolis and headed for my neighborhood. How about twenty steps
Fidel went before me, leading a large tray, cover with placemats.

We meet in the corridor where my room was.

- Fidel Psss ...-- whispered, required with nods to me closer -. You Raise the placemats.

I raised a point. I found plenty of stews and meats, among others, an opulent piece of roast beef.

-
Is the food of Don Guillén - said the waiter -. If not promiscuous, or promiscuous, I do not
I know how to pronounce, at least eat meat.

In this, he opened the door of Don Guillén, and himself, in person, marked by dark on light
gray box, surprising in a shameful and embarrassing fisgonería. He was dressed civilian clothes,
rolled the fur, which embeds the radiance, made him halo around the
head.

She wore red morocco slippers.

These two details struck me as acute notes the second suspension and silence that led us the
surprise: the radiant halo and bloody feet.

- Come you, pass you - making emphasis, turning to me. I obeyed, not yet recovered humiliating feeling
-. Sit down - I urged.

I wanted to apologize and leave. Canon added in a tone that I interpreted as imploring:

- Would not you grant me the favor, if you please, make me a little
company?

The appeal and the accent he replied in my usual balance.

I sat at a table with some books, papers, some water pipes, glasses,
and presiding over all those utensils and accessories intellectual
task, contained in a small frame of embossed silver, as a reliquary,
a photograph of a woman, I bent to look discreetly.

It looked like a virgin girl Rafael, of their time Umbrian.

- Put the food here, Fidel. Did you bring wine? Take it. I have something better .-- I came and twisting
head toward me: - What are you looking at the frame?

It is a relic of the fifteenth century, a gem.

- No, I looked at the portrait.

- A sister of mine who disappeared.

- What is missing?

- What was lost in the shadows.

- Ah!

...-- Indicated died so hesitant, pushing him to be clear.

- Some years ago .-- And after a pause: - It will take you a glass of cognac.

He took a bottle of cognac and a bon old wine in a pigskin briefcase, smart mundane garment rather
than a cleric. He sat down to eat. The more I looked, the less I seemed a priest and more
a man of the world.

- For the work of chance - he said, while eating slowly - you surprised me on my privacy man.
If a few moments ago, when found you ....

- Peering - interrupted - but at the request of the boy, and without assuming what it was.

-
Who cares? Say yes then I would have retired, you'd think I was a priest rogue and swindler. I could
not let him go without offering any explanation.

- I was the one that was ....

- You, Why? You, at most, was guilty of excessive curiosity. I, in view timid people, I am committing
a grave sin.

- I'm not timid.

- But I must give an explanation. Just as there are crimes in the
state artificial, in the Church sins are artificial.

Artificial crimes and sins are acts which do not hurt or impair justice or dogma (axes, respectively,
of the State and the Church), but contrary and disobey certain rules of conduct, accidental,
fleeting. One of those provisions transient is required to eat four-day vigil of Easter. Perhaps
the Pope current, or its successor, will come up amenguar perhaps eliminate this obligation.
The Material state is a community that is maintained by the mutual convenience, and the Church a
spiritual community that is sustained by mutual love. Therefore, the spirit of discipline of
the Church is of a different kind of spirit of discipline of the state. In the State the spirit
of discipline of the order of the feelings involved, for without discipline there is no mutual
convenience. In the Church, the spirit of discipline in the field
is generated the generous affections, is the willingness to sacrifice.

No other so that the lovers, for certification of mutual love, get love from the other proof, through
systems and capricious demands, abide by that which is love, so the
Church requires its faithful some disciplinary obligations, by spurring
the lukewarm to exercise and show love.

For people of good faith and clear sense asserted, are clerics, whether secular, these obligations
disciplinary rejoice: the essential is the dogma. The state provides a good degree of freedom
of thought (the thought does not commit crimes), but does not compromise the freedom of actions,
because break discipline.

The Church is uncompromising in terms of ideas and tolerant in terms
of activities, just the thought sins.

All sins, monstrous they may be, receive absolution in the confessional, but the slightest
doubt of the confessed on absolve us from faith. Now as this is common sense, stay secret to
those who have no common sense, are clerics, whether secular. Do you understand?

- Understand, I understand - I agreed. And indeed, he understood what I had said nothing difficult
to understand, but he does not understand. What was this man before me was, swallowing and reasoning
at the same time, chewing and flowing, so much coldness, scruples
and elegance, dressed as a man of society, without a hint sensitive
state church to which he belonged, and, from time to time, as he spoke,
he clutched his eyes portrait of a woman whom he had pushed the stock
pit brothel?

What was this man? A hedonistic? "An infidel? A hypocrite and a sophist, themselves and others?
A disillusioned? A tormented? What least interested me was the explanation
I had offered.

What if I ate gave me awake or waking stopped eating?

As if by a rare gift of immediate responsiveness, frequent in duólogos intimate and intense Don
Guillén had racked my thoughts in his head, said:

- It's less for you, is if I keep waking or not. The important thing is that you, works by chance,
as I've said before, I was surprised man in my privacy.

All monks, priests and ecclesiastical magnates, under the bunting,
the merino and purple hide a man.

Homo sum, I say to the heathen.

And I saw him again, in my imagination with the radiant halo and feet red.

- I was surprised you stripped me of my ministry. No minister of the Lord, but as creature of
the Lord, wretched and imperfect as all of them.

Within a few hours, I will address King, rather, about the king,
not several feet, which lift the pulpit, on the testa crowned and
anointed, but infinite spans, because I represent the conscience indelible
and everlasting which is inaccessible height above thrones, scepters
and sovereignty.

But here in this sad little room and in front of you, I can not incorporate
the voice of conscience, but I am poor dark hollow where the voice
of conscience echoes.

That was getting serious. Not knowing what to say, I stood with head bowed and eyes fixed on
a point, which by chance happened to be the portrait of the shrine.

- Do you like the frame? - Asked Don Guillén.

- I looked at the portrait. I know this woman - I said short.

Don Guillen was deeply disturbed.

- You are wrong - he said -. It will be another face like that you know. A woman can not meet
you. I told my sister that does not exist - and underlined the word sister and the verb "to exist.

After
dessert, Mr. Guillen was served a glass of brandy and whipped the conversation to put on an air
of alacrity and humor. He was so witty and intelligent.

As we parted he said:

- These days will not attend the roundtable. Do you want us to eat together, here in my room?
What is going to envy you .... Emerenciana Dona

In those meals surreptitious and idle desktops, my friend was telling me Don Guillén to pieces his story,
that of Sorrows Pinto and the parents of her and him, Belarmino and Apolonio. Then, on my own,
I made inquiries as important, the story of Caramanzanita Pinta and take second place.

CHAPTER II.

Ruera Street, VIEW FROM BOTH SIDES.

(The impatient reader scroll events to look light this chapter is not but the scene where the
action will develop.)

In the deep zone, black, sleeping in memory, Styx our soul, where have been plunging the affections
and images of old, rise, of rare rare unexpectedly old voices and old familiar faces, like a spectrum
without corporeality. As in the gloomy night and still breathe swamps and ghostly white mist,
so our Styx interior makes vapors released spectrum to the hours when darkness Sleep saturates
our spirit. But sometimes, incorporeal creatures from beyond memory stand in the light of day.

Right now I perceived I describe the Ruera Street, the very distinguished and longtime City Pillars,
where he lived Belarmino Pinto, also called monxú Codorniú, shoemaker and philosopher bilateral,
when, suddenly, at the threshold or edge of my consciousness, stands the spectrum Don Amaranth
Fraile, waving a fork pewter, as I was I figured trident Charon, the Neptune of the sea of ​​eternity.
Silhouette Brutus to Caesar in tragedy Shakespeare, tell the disembodied shadow of the great gift Amaranth:

-
Speak! Speak!

And the shadow breaks to speak, with their own grace and insight that
delighted me so many years ago:

- Will you describe the Ruera Street?

Will you describe it, or you're going to paint? - I notice two new
features.

First, that now I don Amaranth is you. Second, the voice has been etiolated and sounds like
a eunuch. The voice continues: - The Cyclops saw the world surface, because had only one eye. Cyclops,
to see the surface world, wanted to attack the Olympus; but the gods
rushed into the deep Tartarus .-- Don Amaranth always with its own
mythology .-- The novelist is like a little Cyclops, that is, as a
Cyclops is not Cyclops.

Just Cyclops superficial vision and commitment sacrilegious to occupy the mansion of the gods
as a novelist seeks nothing less than to create a short universe,
that means something else be novel. The man, with the most stingy,
leads the cyclops, because of having two eyes that see in depth the
world of sense. Now describe it is like seeing a eye paseándolo the
surface of a plane, because the images are successive in time, and
do not melt, or overlap, and, therefore, acquire depth. Instead, the
vision proper to man, which is the vision diafenomenal, inasmuch as,
by focusing on the subject with each eye from the side, penetrates
at an angle and get two pictures side which merge in a central image
is a view in depth. The novelist, as man sees stereoscopically things
in depth, but as artists, is without the means that reproduce your
vision. Can not paint, can only describe, enumerate. The mission to
see with greater depth, finesse and excitement and teach others to
see itself Luckily, it's up to the painter. The novelist's original
curse necessarily figures must be extended on numerous objects. The
painter, however, pick a single object, or, if you take several, grouped
in small space, the focus and awareness. The painter the reverse of
the novelist, not left dominated by the vastness of the subject, but
it dominates. That is the object vertex of the angle of vision of
the painter, not the painter vertex angle contemplation of the landscape,
like the novelist. The painter who paints pictures of more of two
square meters, is relentlessly superficial painter. The question for
the painter large, it's concept, they realize that must be artistically
surface or whether it is superficial and inartistic without realizing
it. The famous fresco painters and ancient and modern, realizing this,
painted by long shots, die monotonous avoiding the obvious sense of
volume and depth were deliberately superficial.

I interrupt the shadow
loquacious voice eunuch

- In the nearby church has sounded the Angelus
meridian. In an hour be interrupting my work. If you listen, never
do anything but drag me idle during the delectation discourse. Tell
me, in short, how should I describe Ruera Street, and the description
as you please.

- Do not describing. Search diafenomenal vision. Inhíbete
on your person as a novelist. S two other people to see it at the
same time from opposite side angles. Now, indeed, he plainly understands why this ill-conditioned
chamber has the appearance of being filled with a Heaven-sent brilliance, and why at the first
spoken words of the one before him a melodious sound, like the rushing waters of the sacred
Tien-Kiang, seemed to fill his ears.'

"'Undoubtedly the chamber is pervaded by a very exceptional splendour,' replied Lo Yuen, who,
in spite of his high position, regarded graceful talk and well-imagined compliments in a spirit
of no-satisfaction; 'yet this commonplace-minded one has a fixed conviction that it is caused
by the crimson-eyed and pink-fire-breathing dragon which, despite your slave's most assiduous
efforts, is now endeavouring to climb through the aperture behind you. The noise which still
fills his ears, also, resembles rather the despairing cries of the Ten Thousand Lost Ones at
the first sight of the Pit of Liquid and Red-hot Malachite, yet without question both proceed
from the same cause. Laying aside further ceremony, therefore, permit this greatly over-estimated
person to disclose the object of his inopportune visit. Long have your amiable virtues been
observed and appreciated by the high ones at Peking, O Quen-Ki-Tong. Too long have they been
unrewarded and passed over in silence. Nevertheless, the moment of acknowledgement and advancement
has at length arrived; for, as the Book of Verses clearly says, "Even the three-legged mule
may contrive to reach the agreed spot in advance of the others, provided a circular running
space has been selected and the number of rounds be sufficiently ample." It is this otherwise
uninteresting and obtrusive person's graceful duty to convey to you the agreeable intelligence
that the honourable and not ill-rewarded office of Guarder of the Imperial Silkworms has been
conferred upon you, and to require you to proceed without delay to Peking, so that fitting
ceremonies of admittance may be performed before the fifteenth day of the month of Feathered
Insects.'

"Alas! how frequently does the purchaser of seemingly vigorous and exceptionally low-priced
flower-seeds discover, when too late, that they are, in reality, fashioned from the root of
the prolific and valueless tzu-ka, skilfully covered with a disguising varnish! Instead of
presenting himself at the place of commerce frequented by those who entrust money to others
on the promise of an increased repayment when certain very probable events have come to pass
(so that if all else failed he would still possess a serviceable number of taels), Quen-Ki-Tong
entirely neglected the demands of a most ordinary prudence, nor could he be induced to set
out on his journey until he had passed seven days in public feasting to mark his good fortune,
and then devoted fourteen more days to fasting and various acts of penance, in order to make
known the regret with which he acknowledged his entire unworthiness for the honour before him.
Owing to this very conscientious, but nevertheless somewhat short-sighted manner of behaving,
Quen found himself unable to reach Peking before the day preceding that to which Lo Yuen had
made special reference. From this cause it came about that only sufficient time remained to
perform the various ceremonies of admission, without in any degree counselling Quen as to his
duties and procedure in the fulfilment of his really important office.

"Among the many necessary and venerable ceremonies observed during the changing periods of
the year, none occupy a more important place than those for which the fifteenth day of the
month of Feathered Insects is reserved, conveying as they do a respectful and delicately-fashioned
petition that the various affairs upon which persons in every condition of life are engaged
may arrive at a pleasant and remunerative conclusion. At the earliest stroke of the gong the
versatile Emperor, accompanied by many persons of irreproachable ancestry and certain others,
very elaborately attired, proceeds to an open space set apart for the occasion. With unassuming
dexterity the benevolent Emperor for a brief span of time engages in the menial occupation
of a person of low class, and with his own hands ploughs an assigned portion of land in order
that the enlightened spirits under whose direct guardianship the earth is placed may not become
lax in their disinterested efforts to promote its fruitfulness. In this charitable exertion
he is followed by various other persons of recognized position, the first being, by custom,
the Guarder of the Imperial Silkworms, while at the same time the amiably-disposed Empress
plants an allotted number of mulberry trees, and deposits upon their leaves the carefully reared
insects which she receives from the hands of their Guarder. In the case of the accomplished
Emperor an ingenious contrivance is resorted to by which the soil is drawn aside by means of
hidden strings as the plough passes by, the implement in question being itself constructed
from paper of the highest quality, while the oxen which draw it are, in reality, ordinary persons
cunningly concealed within masks of cardboard. It seemed a courtier of Louis XV or a big house coachman.

Don Roque, that was his name, turned in his seat and gave a voice.

-
Marcones!

An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big blue visor cap tray in hand.
Mayor conferred with him a few times.

Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young sailor suit, clutching his arm. Both
came the presidential box.

Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting
it halfway.

They heard of Occasionally !»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of
education"

... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures that are in the tavern?

"The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.

A voice shouted from the courtyard:

- A ride to jail.

But from the other pot instantly replied:

- It also carried the Esguila Pepe.

- Silence! Silence!

The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let him come again Once your site,
with great satisfaction the pot, which was received with cheers and applause.

The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude.

Before it was over, started out by setting traps to a dozen devils
with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches in their
hands.

Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps, were started, of course,
a fantastic dance, it is well known of old that can not be together
four demons without giving the ball furiously. Viewers followed his
living with extreme curiosity and rhythmic movements. A boy cried.
The public forced his mother to do sacase.

But lo, with much coming
and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very
large enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them.
The poor devil without realizing it, danced more and more infernal
rapture. The audience laughed loudly waiting for the next outcome
of that incident. In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary
evil spirit, was quick to pull the wig and mask, have revealed the
face of Levita, where he painted the terror.

- Levita! - Shouted
the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of
their attributes hell, confused and embarrassed withdrew from the
scene.

"Well said the wise and deep-thinking Ye-te, in his book entitled Proverbs of Everyday Happenings,
'Should a person on returning from the city discover his house to be in flames, let him examine
well the change which he has received from the chair-carrier before it is too late; for evil
never travels alone.' Scarcely had the unfortunate Quen recovered his natural attributes from
the effect of the disgraceful occurrence which has been recorded (which, indeed, furnished
the matter of a song and many unpresentable jests among the low-class persons of the city),
than the magnanimous Empress reached that detail of the tree-planting ceremony when it was
requisite that she should deposit the living emblems of the desired increase and prosperity
upon the leaves. Stretching forth her delicately-proportioned hand to Quen for this purpose,
she received from the still greatly confused person in question the Imperial silkworms in so
unseemly a condition that her eyes had scarcely rested upon them before she was seized with
the rigid sickness, and in that state fell to the ground. At this new and entirely unforeseen
calamity a very disagreeable certainty of approaching evil began to take possession of all
those who stood around, many crying aloud that every omen of good was wanting, and declaring
that unless something of a markedly propitiatory nature was quickly accomplished, the agriculture
of the entire Empire would cease to flourish, and the various departments of the commerce in
silk would undoubtedly be thrown into a state of most inextricable confusion. Indeed, in spite
of all things designed to have a contrary effect, the matter came about in the way predicted,
for the Hoang-Ho seven times overcame its restraining barriers, and poured its waters over
the surrounding country, thereby gaining for the first time its well-deserved title of 'The
Sorrow of China,' by which dishonourable but exceedingly appropriate designation it is known
to this day. 

[4] 1st Act, tit. 32, lib. 2 Coll. Pig.

[5] Law 80, tit. 15, lib. 2 Coll. Pig.

[6] I left the Philippines in April 1837 was established so the board:
after I have no news here has given it another way.

[7] 1st Act, tit. 3, lib. 7, Coll. pigs, and all the same book title.

[8] By the end of this report, and bearing the 1st number, is brought a document containing
certain observations that were intended to use to make an exposition on reforms were approved,
giving new plant to branch offices, because so burdensome to a the public treasury, and no
advantage to the neighborhood of Manila, and being always time to reform and to establish market
abuse, it seemed appropriate to a place in this memorial to those observations, as well as
three articles reported on the same subject, which inserted newspapers, and all the bases to
introduce the reader to judge in the case and failing to impartiality, see what little good standing
that national interests were Post of income in the Philippines. These comments or exposition project
did not to be formed, because its authors (one of them in this report) were persuaded it was time
lost all be spent on the matter, because it was already agreed reform,
and other details occurred convinced them it was impossible to pass
anything, and so was the business and continues to set the new office
floor of a brilliantly mounted and well-paying fixed their key employees,
albeit on a limited income and potential yields.

[9] gobernadorcillos are called the people engaged in the functions
of our mayors ordinary.

[10] Law 51, tit. 2, lib. 3, Coll. Pig.

[11] Article 264, tit. 5th
of the Constitution of 1812 restored the law by law September 16,
1837.

[12] For all the tit. 2, lib. 3, Coll. Pig. At length, in the guise of a wandering conjurer who was unable to display
his accomplishments owing to an entire loss of the power of movement in his arms, Quen passed
undetected from the city, and safely reaching the distant and unimportant town of Lu-Kwo, gave
himself up to a protracted period of lamentation and self-reproach at the unprepossessing manner
in which he had conducted his otherwise very inviting affairs.

                  SECOND PERIOD: THE TEMPLE BUILDER

Two hand-counts of years passed away and Quen still remained at Lu-kwo, all desire of returning
either to Peking or to the place of his birth having by this time faded into nothingness. Accepting
the inevitable fact that he was not destined ever to become a person with whom taels were plentiful,
and yet being unwilling to forego the charitable manner of life which he had always been accustomed
to observe, it came about that he spent the greater part of his time in collecting together
such sums of money as he could procure from the amiable and well-disposed, and with them building
temples and engaging in other benevolent works. From this cause it arose the Quen obtained
around Lu-kwo a reputation for high-minded piety, in no degree less than that which had been
conferred upon him in earlier times, so that pilgrims from far distant places would purposely
contrive their journey so as to pass through the town containing so unassuming and virtuous
a person.

"During this entire period Quen had been accompanied by his only son, a youth of respectful
personality, in whose entertaining society he took an intelligent interest. Even when deeply
engaged in what he justly regarded as the crowning work of his existence--the planning and
erecting of an exceptionally well-endowed marble temple, which was to be entirely covered on
the outside with silver paper, and on the inside with gold-leaf--he did not fail to observe
the various conditions of Liao's existence, and the changing emotions which from time to time
possessed him. Therefore, when the person in question, without displaying any signs of internal
sickness, and likewise persistently denying that he had lost any considerable sum of money,
disclosed a continuous habit of turning aside with an unaffected expression of distaste from
all manner of food, and passed the entire night in observing the course of the great sky-lantern
rather than in sleep, the sage and discriminating Quen took him one day aside, and asked him,
as one who might aid him in the matter, who the maiden was, and what class and position her
father occupied. 

Whoever named captains INGA MANGO:

SAIR TOPA [Xairi Tupac], that now is in the mountains.

At Illustrious and Most Excellent Lord Don Antonio de Mendoza, Vissorey and Captain General of His Majesty
in the kingdoms and provinces of Peru.

Illustrious and Excellent Sir: Finished to translate and compile a book chripstiana Doctrine is said,
which contains the doctrine chripstiana and two vocabularies, one of words, and other news and whole
sentences and symposia and confisionario, my mind was so tired so tired and my body in six
years of my youth spent in it, I proposed, and had determined between me, not to write or translate
another book of such matters in Indian language, which deals of the facts and natural habits
of these Indians of Peru, for the great work that treats I saw that I was offered and the variety
that was in the report these things, and see how dello conquerors speak differently, and far from what
the Indians used, and I believe it to be, for then, not much is used in Sabella, as in holding
the soil and purchase, and also because, new in the treatment of Indians would not know inquirillo
and preguntallo, lacking the intelligence of the language, and the Indians, fearing they would
not know to whole relationship. Thing might seem easy to write such books, and very hard to please
the reader, for their eyes, conténtanse to be clearly legible the letter, but the delicate
and Grace experienced trial YOUR LORDSHIP funny style and eloquence required soft which now,
for this service and I TO YOU did, in my absence, and history of such matters does not, because
to be true and faithful traducidor, I have Save the manner and order of speaking of the natives.
And coming to the end, I say, in this present escriptura YOUR EXCELLENCY some times used to
leella eyes, which, although not very loud, it was very laborious, the one, because he was
not translated and collected one being reported, but many, and the oldest and credit I found among these
natives, and the other, thinking that was to be offered to Your Excellency. Hame also been
very painful for the little time I had to take care about it, for for the other book of the
Doctrine was necessary to all, and above all have work añadióse to put an end to this book
soon, now that Your Excellency commanded. Names the Incas called CAPACCUNA the Indians, which
in their view means that most do not is or can be, and whose deeds and lives here I write,
the table which will be found at the end of this prologue, if anyone wishes me to reproof on the
subject of this book is something or superfluous to say that I left something out of forgetfulness,
it is no reason, the common Indian speak on a whim or for dreams, for so I usually do, or because
he's such reprendedores they seemed, when informed that the common Indians wanted to say what
they agora claim to have these things, not understanding retamente. Language even in times past,
they knew not inquire and ask what they pretended to know and be informed. Well be trifles and
vanities see what these Indians used and I write here, but, relate them I being sent, I have
to translate as it happened, and so receive me this book please of Your Excellency.

HIS EXCELLENCY: Life and Status of Your Excellency, Our Lord prosper very happiness.

In ancient times, claiming to be the land, and province of Peru dark, and it does not had light
or day. He had at this time some people in it, which some people had Lord who commanded it and
whom it was subjective. The name of this people and the Lord that ordered not agree. And in
these times that this land was all night, say they went a gap that is in this land of Peru
in the province of Collasuyo say, a Lord callers with Tici Viracocha, which they say have brought
with them a number of people, which number does not agree. And since this had gone Desta lagoon,
and went from there to a Site forests near this lake, Quest where today is a village called
Tiaguanaco in this province and that the Collao, and as there was him and his family, then
suddenly there say who made the sun and day, and that the sun sent who walked the course walk,
and then say who made the stars and moon.
 In such a state of mind was Ah-Ping
when Quen-Ki-Tong appeared before him, for it had just been revealed to him that his eldest
and favourite son had, by flattery and by openly praising the dexterity with which he used
his brush and ink, entrapped him into inscribing his entire name upon certain unwritten sheets
of parchment, which the one in question immediately sold to such as were heavily indebted to
Ah-Ping.

"'If a person can be guilty of this really unfilial behaviour during the lifetime of his father,'
exclaimed Ah-Ping, in a tone of unrestrained vexation, 'can it be prudently relied upon that
he will carry out his wishes after death, when they involve the remitting to him of several
thousand taels each year? O estimable Quen-Ki-Tong, how immeasurably superior is the celestial
outlook upon which you may safely rely as your portion! When you are enjoying every variety
of sumptuous profusion, as the reward of your untiring charitable exertions here on earth,
the spirit of this short-sighted person will be engaged in doing menial servitude for the inferior
deities, and perhaps scarcely able, even by those means, to clothe himself according to the
changing nature of the seasons.'

"'Yet,' replied Quen, 'the necessity for so laborious and unremunerative an existence may even
now be averted by taking efficient precautions before you pass to the Upper Air.'

"'In what way?' demanded Ah-Ping, with an awakening hope that the matter might not be entirely
destitute of cheerfulness, yet at the same time preparing to examine with even unbecoming intrusiveness
any expedient which Quen might lay before him. 'Is it not explicitly stated that sacrifices
and acts of a like nature, when performed at the end of one's existence by a person who to
that time has professed no sort of interest in such matters, shall in no degree be entered
as to his good, but rather regarded as examples of deliberate presumptuousness, and made the
excuse for subjecting him to more severe tortures and acts of penance than would be his portion
if he neglected the custom altogether?'

"'Undoubtedly such is the case,' replied Quen; 'and on that account it would indicate a most
regrettable want of foresight for you to conduct your affairs in the manner indicated. The
only undeniably safe course is for you to entrust the amount you will require to a person of
exceptional piety, receiving in return his written word to repay the full sum whenever you
shall claim it from him in the Upper Air. By this crafty method the amount will be placed at
the disposal of the person in question as soon as he has passed beyond, and he will be held
by his written word to return it to you whenever you shall demand it.'

"So amiably impressed with this ingenious scheme was Ah-Ping that he would at once have entered
more fully into the detail had the thought not arisen in his mind that the person before him
was the father of Liao, who urgently required a certain large sum, and that for this reason
he might with prudence inquire more fully into the matter elsewhere, in case Quen himself should
have been imperceptibly led aside, even though he possessed intentions of a most unswerving
honourableness. To this end, therefore, he desired to converse again with Quen on the matter,
pleading that at that moment a gathering of those who direct enterprises of a commercial nature
required his presence. Nevertheless, he would not permit the person referred to depart until
he had complimented him, in both general and specific terms, on the high character of his life
and actions, and the intelligent nature of his understanding, which had enabled him with so
little mental exertion to discover an efficient plan.

"Without delay Ah-Ping sought out those most skilled in all varieties of law-forms, in extorting
money by devices capable of very different meanings, and in expedients for evading just debts;
but all agreed that such an arrangement as the one he put before them would be unavoidably
binding, provided the person who received the money alluded to spent it in the exercise of
his charitable desires, and provided also that the written agreement bore the duty seal of
the high ones at Peking, and was deposited in the coffin of the lender. Fully satisfied, and
rejoicing greatly that he could in this way adequately provide for his future and entrap the
avaricious ones of his house, Ah-Ping collected together the greater part of his possessions,
and converting it into pieces of gold, entrusted them to Quen on the exact understanding that
has already been described, he receiving in turn Quen's written and thumb-signed paper of repayment,
and his assurance that the whole amount should be expended upon the silver-paper and gold-leaf
Temple with which he was still engaged.

"It is owing to this circumstance that Quen-Ki-Tong's irreproachable name has come to be lightly
regarded by many who may be fitly likened to the latter person in the subtle and experienced
proverb, 'The wise man's eyes fell before the gaze of the fool, fearing that if he looked he
must cry aloud, "Thou hopeless one!" "There," said the fool to himself, "behold this person's
power!"' These badly educated and undiscriminating persons, being entirely unable to explain
the ensuing train of events, unhesitatingly declare that Quen-Ki-Tong applied a portion of
the money which he had received from Ah-Ping in the manner described to the object of acquiring
Ts'ain for his son Liao. In this feeble and incapable fashion they endeavour to stigmatize
the pure-minded Quen as one who acted directly contrary to his deliberately spoken word, whereas
the desired result was brought about in a much more artful manner; they describe the commercially
successful Ah-Ping as a person of very inferior prudence, and one easily imposed upon; while
they entirely pass over, as a detail outside the true facts, the written paper preserved among
the sacred relics in the Temple, which announces, among other gifts of a small and uninviting
character, 'Thirty thousand taels from an elderly ginseng merchant of Lu-kwo, who desires to
remain nameless, through the hand of Quen-Ki-Tong.' The full happening in its real and harmless
face is now set forth for the first time. And as this is done, the gentlemen who are there, begin their singing and
touch the drums, and after having sung and holgádose, sit in a line as long for all are, and drink
every two glasses of chicha and two ansímismo offered to the sun, spilling before their halberds,
and dende little, get up and sing around her, in which song have to give great praise to the
sun and beg his people and to save and increase his novel; and this song ended, he relapsed
into drinking. And this have to do thirty days from the day you start .-- Y every night in this way are
snug chicha, because their main joy in all their works and things to do, it's okay to drink,
and the more drink, more, sir, because they opportunity to do so.

É ordered these thirty days of age, came together in the square where relatives desto the junior
novels and a favorable answer it there, kneeling E halberd, and when they were in standing,
with hands tomasen the halberd, and so he, stretched out his arms, family members should give
them with a sling on them, that they might report were agreed Desta é party, and that this fact
there were a source to say Calixpucquiu [55], which says "the source of Calix [56] and being already
there, to wash all, to which source they want to go as dark. É ANSI being washed, Hansen wear
other shirts precious, and so they dressed, their relatives stone them with a prickly pear [57],
and every parent, I long as I have stoned with the tunas, they are obliged to provide such novel
certain pieces of jewelry and clothing, and give him ansímismo, desto finally, to every one of this
novel, a sling. And this is done, every one of these novel must return to his house, whose
house is to find very clean, and very good fire made in it and all their relatives and relatives
in it, and then have to take the four pitchers of chicha they did in the beginning of the feast,
which pitchers have to drink all, and this novel have such imbriagar with chicha so that no
[58] makes sense, and as soon and this longing, hanle to take the room, and where they best they
seem good, there shall bore ears. And tomorrow's another day, go all the novice to the place
all together in order While fighting and ANSI as if to give battle, with their slings in their
hands and necks to bags of networks, which bring many Chinese, and put out as much of a another
in the plaza, begin to battle, which must give battle to the end that they need to understand
craves have to fight with their enemies. In this manner I think it must be these cirimonias, and on
this art ordered triple [in] doing the apricots and not what has been hitherto.

Heard by the Lords what he had ordered Inca Yupanqui, said that was fine ordered and thought,
so there were being put to forward, and to tell them that since when I wanted to begin this
party? He told them that there could be thirty days to begin because that's where do we begin
the month of the year was beginning, and they begged him that because so there had been no order
to do knew the year and the months that had [for good?] signals and the recital of which begun,
and the names of those months. And Ynca I replied that that party after the sun, he had thought
of giving in that order; more, because they invited him to the charms and signs (and) that he wanted
to do that grace: and that at present there was no place for them to account for this, because
I thought identify and sort such months in the other parties in that they all rejoice é hiciesen
their sacrifices, that from thence to ten days, I would say that the order that had to have é parties
they were to gay and sacrifices that had to ANSI. And that said, out of their agreement he
and the other gentlemen, which were each to his inn, where began to give orders to their parties,
which have heard that from then to thirty days were to start, which thirty days ago, made his party
the way they have heard; dende and then I continued to do in the way and that, until this year
we are of fifteen hundred and fifty-one years .-- The party and the other that the Lord established,
although the wish to remove in this city of Cuzco, the often hidden or secret they do in villages
which are surrounding the city of Cuzco.

After that were the ten days Inca Yupanqui Messrs. said that after
those came together with him again, which together had to tell them
the order that they asked ANSI that would make the year and months
and the more parties that they had to have and keep, Inca Yupanqui
told them he had many years he had imagined the months and time of
year, which had found that they were twelve and I did not think saying
a desto twelve months and times thing, but it was good as were going
ANSI and such parties that they had them He was to pose, but because
they had asked, he wanted to ask what (So) and say and declare the
parties and the sacrifices that those months were to ANSI do, they
were attentive and the tomasen firmly in mind, that besides this,
I look forward mesmo I had thought of doing a certain thing he called
Pachaunanchango, which means "knower time "[59] - we can presume Relox
- by which they and their descendants, and they lost track of the
months, you would understand when the time of sowing, labor é, é dressing
their land.

And ANSI, the lords being attentive, Inca Yupanqui said unto them this coming month, in which
have to make the pears, as I have told you, that's where the year begins, we shall call and
has called Pucuy quillaimi [60], which is our December, and January called Coyquis has time,
and one month called Ccollappoccoyquis Hebrero [61] and the March call Pachapoccoyquis [62] and
as of April Ayrihuaquis [63] and the month of May called Aymorayquis Keel [64]. In this month was
ordered é Inca Yupanqui that it should be another party in the sun very solene, in which hiciesen
great sacrifices in order to quel the earth had given them and corn that she had, and that
since then began to fuck their maize, were to begin the party and last until at the end of June,
and that in the month of June, which called Hatun cosqui quillan, than in December last year
were ordered apricots in aquesta party constituted in the month of June, to dress shirts woven
of gold and silver and iridescent feathers, and can not wait posts
patens é their feathers and gold bracelets, saliesen to this feast,
and that at this event should give an end to their fasting and sacrifices,
since they were sorted apricots until there had been, and there began
to rejoice and celebrate another constituted craves to be had by Simentera
sun, to which party ANSI starting from May until late June, as we
have heard, called and appointed Yahuarincha aymoray [65].

Which sent party that was done in the square is the agora do espital in Cuzco, which is at the
outlet of this city, do call Rimacpampa, to which party had Messrs. dresses out of the city of a red
shirt that gave up feet, in which party ordered it hiciesen great sacrifices to idols, do they
burn many cattle slaughtered é é é food clothing, and in such guacas were offered many gold
and silver jewelry.

As of July was called Cahuarquis [66], which ordered that no party will do him no, most of them
said this month they were to irrigate their land, were to begin é plant their corn and potatoes
and quinoa [67] until the month of September came out é, and August Capacsiquis called [68],
and the month of September called Cituaiquis [69]. This month say that it was Inca Yupanqui hiciesen
two parties, one almost wants to look to which we do in San Juan, because they rise at midnight
and washed until rie day, and have some torches lit, and after being washed, these torches danse in
the back, and throw himself say that any ill health and bad they have. É the other party is [T]
he called the Inca Yupanqui Purappucquiu [70], [é] é ansímismo sent the to do this month, which
he commanded that they should do to the water, the hiciesen E ansímismo sacrifices and these sacrifices
commanded that offered a lot of clothes and sheep and coca, and that in any few herbs and plants that
were in the fields, flowers Dellas favorable answer, all of which commanded offered the waters
in this way: them to take plenty of clothes and cast them in that River of Cuzco in the do the two
rivers meet, that many sheep and a favorable answer ansímismo lamb and to offer them water,
and decapitated in that place do the clothes were cast, and then that would make a great fire there
which burnt these sheep and lambs, the ciniza é of those eager burned, cast into the water at
that very site, and then after that, cast into the river and the
flowers have heard: and after this, he cast them into the water that
lot of ground coca é shredded.

And after that was coming down when the sun set [71], in a site, which was sure standing in a part
where it could be good to see, and so they like knew from that site do it stop, the course
would do when the sun was coming down in that right at the top of the hills, make four pyramids
made of stone or marble, amid the two smaller than the other two sides, and two states altor
each pictures, and section one another a fathom, except that the two small middle became more
together, one to the other half will breaststroke. And when the sun came out, still do a job
Inca Yupanqui stopped to watch and gauge this right, gets out and is on the right and middle
desto two pillars, and when it sets, the same thing, do the turns, through which the common
people I was understanding that it was time, I look forward to planting, as to catch, because
the clocks were four to do the sun came out, and four to do was setting the course do not differ
and movements so the sun does in the year. Erros the Inca Yupanqui in the month to take to come
to one and to our mind the months of the year that craves said, because he took December January
having to make, but at last he learned to understand and give orders to his republic.

After they had done é Inca Yupanqui given orders in the year and months and festivals that he
were to hold, and made clocks, recreating and having loose on the things that you have heard time
and space of two years, which the Lord spent time to stand on its people, because natural and chiefs
who were subject to him they had space and time to idle work on their land that had been in
the repair craves had done in streams the city of Cuzco, they had space because they desired
é é é take time to plant large fields, with which they repaired all meals and provision, with
which they had é to serve and contribute to the city of Cuzco and to the deposits in it were,
it seems rescibia already his services, and any other penalty for both ANSI had idleness he and
others ajuntóse a day with the main city of Cuzco and said unto them already had idleness that
seemed that it was time for the caciques and gentlemen at subjectively should come with their
meals and supplies to the city of Cuzco and bring him all the more people could be, because
he had agreed to make themselves rebuild the city of Cuzco in such a way that was perpetually made
and manufactured in certain buildings he yes I had thought, and that after they were made,
they would see, for which it was necessary lot of very large numbers of people, and that this
was necessary to depart from the city certain gentlemen of the people there on that board with him
were: and then they saw that there wanted to go, because, with those remaining, he had need,
while those who had to go were, of what we do and provide for such a building necessary. É then there
were appointed ten lords, twenty apricots, which departed from there
and were then to the towns and provinces and provide them to bring
what we have heard.

Inca Yupanqui and the other gentlemen who were there and were coming out of your visit, were
all over the city about five miles, and [instead] it seemed, sought looked é é do site do hobiesen
saws could be out stone quarrying, clay é, é land for mixtures of these buildings had to wear;
where they found that the site of Saluoma [72] had a lot of very large number of very large
stone and quarries. É seen the Inca and other men who already had there gear and raised and
a lot of very large numbers quarry, and returned to the city, where they gave orders, after arrivals
were, in ANSI so had to bring that carry the stone é, for which they were sent made many very
large amount of thick ropes, ropes of niervos é é sheep leather.

[I] ANSI this was done, the city drew Inca Yupanqui and did make clay figures While the thought
anxiously as the make and build: and then questo was made, arrived at that apricot seasoning
é é time those gentlemen who had gone to make food and bring proveimiento é many people to make
such buildings, as history has told you: and as has looked forward, the chiefs saluted the Inca
in the way that you already digimos, and the Inca intranasal received with love, with which
it seemed that they would rather loose-fitting five day, so was made. At the end of which, Paresce
the Inca would be well to order they will begin to perform, the manufacture of the city, feeling
that such people and craves yet come to rest had the time it enough, and he let the chiefs
everyone gather together his people in a certain campaign and the verifications flat and each
for himself, because I wanted to deliver to all the work that ANSI
had to do, and that the order dalles It had to have.

And being ANSI time of such people, divided his work between such caciques, who sent some rough
hauling rocks for the foundation, and to others that a favorable answer mud which they liked, it
was good and sticky with mud and stone which sent crude to the foundations of these buildings, taking
them out of foundation, which was the foundation and seat from which bumped them with water, to
which he bade them were built of rough stone é sticky mud, so that if water entered through
them, was not a party to undo é eat this mud, because, as I said, at most the seat of the city
were swamps é springs, all of which were taken from springs ordered distributed é so that at
the houses of this city were made for their pipes and sources for proveimiento service and della.

And
likewise to others and would open commanded them to put the foundations
of such houses and buildings of the city, and ordered that would cause
to other stone for building which was to build after these foundations
were ANSI high weight and be who were to be: and to other sent to
adobe clay and sticky earth, in which bricks are cast forth too much
straw, the straw which is after the manner of esparto d'Spain, which
was mixed earth and straw so, that such bricks were well made and
thick, through which bricks are had to build from the work of stone
up until such buildings and houses altor were on and be who had to
carry.

Others ordered a favorable answer, and carry plenty of Alder [73] long and right, giving the
largor and had as have. And likewise ordered that by the time they were made and high buildings
and positions proportion and might have had that for [that] the mixture had to wear ANSI in the
splendor of houses, eager for inside and outside, pegase and does not crack, ordered that a favorable
answer for that time too much about cacti they called Aguacolla quizca [74], with the juice
of which such walls were anointed: and to be the mixture é mixed well mixed with plenty of wool,
was placed in such walls on wetting already have heard of these cacti and that in such a mixture,
if they wanted wool throw, cast them straw, the qual was very much ground, and so he be given such
luster to the walls and buildings.

All this that you have heard being provided, all these things and each, rose those chiefs and
then put through the work of such buildings and ordnance proveimientos so I was sent that to
him this was necessary, and then ordered to go aside Inca Yupanqui all of the city of Cuzco in their
homes, and bring forth out of everything within them had, é pueblezuelos would switch to those
that were there together: and as this was ANSI fact, ordered of such houses were demolished by land.
Where, as this was made plain é é clean [75] he himself by his hands together with the other
lords of the city, by bringing a string, them [76] pointed out and measured with such a string
of solar houses that anxiously é had to do, é Dellas foundations and buildings, all of which
pointed ANSI open ground, and being the supplies needed for such work [brought, involved?],
began to make and build della your city and houses, buildings and houses which were made to
walk in the works and buildings Dell will continue, while the work
lasted fifty thousand Indians é tardóse since Inca Yupanqui commanded
begin to repair the land and rivers of the city and the such do and
build, until all of which was that you have heard and done, twenty
years.

É as the city was made perfects é start, Inca Yupanqui ordered that all major of Cuzco and the
other neighbors and residents of him, were together in some open field: and being ANSI time,
he ordered there the trace of the city and had sent paint to ANSI of clay, and tiniéndolas
before him, gave é é distributed solar houses already built and made as you have heard, to
the lords of Cuzco and to the other neighbors and inhabitants of all apricots which were descendants
of his lineage and the other lords that even he had happened since the beginning of Manco
Capac, villages and sending them to people in this way: The three gentlemen settled their friends
from the House of the Sun down, towards the junta of the two rivers, houses in that space between
the two rivers that were made, and from Casas del Sol down, which sent that site was called Hurin
Cuzco, which says "the low Cuzco, "and the top ends of the point of this, ordered the appointment
Pumap suck that says "lion's tail," in which populated place these three gentlemen, they and those
of his lineage, of them and each for himself began é decindieron the three lineages of Hurin
Cuzco, which is called Vica Quirao lords, and the other Mayta Apu and other Quilliscachi Urco Guaranga
[77]. É de las Casas del Sol up, all that took the two streams up the hill do agora is the strength,
God and handed over to Messrs. relatives propincos é descendants of his own lineage straight
línia sons of lords and ladies from his own debt and lineage, for
the three lords of the Houses of the Sun sent down to people, according
to already have heard, were the bastard children of gentlemen, although
they were of his lineage, which had strange women there in their nation
and of low degree, to which children ANSI incurred, Cconcha Guaccha
call them, which means "come from poor people and low generation;"
and those such, although the Inca children are called ANSI, é are
not taken or complied none dest, ANSI men and women, the other lords,
but by a orejon of others common.

Because they will know that the Inca who craves is Lord, a woman principal: this [no] debt has to be
poor, and this such a woman must be the principal and debt, sister or cousin hers, to which
they call women Pihuihuarmi [78] and by another name Mamanguarmi, and people common, as such
principal wife of the Lord, call when craves to come say hello, Pocaxa (?) Intichuri capac coya
guacchacuyac [79], which says "Child of the Sun and one queen friendly to the poor, "and this lady
that had to be father and mother Mr. é straight debt Inca without which she would race or Concha
Guaccha board, which is what we have heard. And this this woman received the Inca by his principal
wife the day he took the fringe of the state and insinia real, and anxiety in children who had this
lady that was appointed Pihuichuri, which says as it were legitimate children, and more desto was
lord of the state and legitimate heir; and that if the case was that the Inca died leaving that
such a child who could not govern, they did so [80] Lord, and brought them the tassel on his
head, but this just was nursing, called him to é such child Huayna
Capac, who says "boy king," although they build the name, not understanding
which means, [they say] that rich young man says, because they will
know, that layer being season, says rich and Guaina boy says: and
if I said this name Guaina layer, say lad rich, but says Guaina Capac,
with c-season, says boy king.

And so he built another name mesmo who do not understand, he says youth [81] Viracocha it means
and we have said God, because this name appointing them to say é must was the Maker: and as the
Spanish might come to this land and they would see people very foreign to his being, as the
story below you will, call her to all and to each itself, Viracocha, and wanting to build
this name seemed that they were understanding speaking, to think and imagine parábanse veering
in that language means "shortening," and car says "sea," all of which declared and said he
wanted to say "butter of the sea," and "Sea foam," which is not to say it, but God himself.
And so when the Spanish came to this land, they called this name é had to be gods.

É back to our history, such a child to this señalábanle their tutors and governors, which govern
the whole time they saw was not of age to rule, and that if the Inca, after have received to
this female, or before this one, fifty women had other sisters and unpaid debts, because they
desired was his custom to have all her sisters by women, those children that these had not
been inherited by this her any, if not the son of the so Pihui, legitimate wife, they say.
And if this case was that the Inca did not hobiese in her children, or the so pariese daughters,
in this case the state was finally the day Inca, the eldest son who craves hobiese been in any
of the other women her sisters or debts, as they saw that this showed itself to be and law enforcement
officials will and capacity to govern his kingdom é republic: and if it was exactly as it
should, chose from among their brothers who they thought best that could govern, é é to this
that this that gave the so-é married his sister, the way you have heard, for so his father
had been in such Pihuihuarmi or woman main to which they were respected é, craves the Lords
of the city of Cuzco as other lords of the earth, as his leading
lady that é queen of them all.

É back to the purpose of sharing the city and houses of it, the distributed Inca Yupanqui in
the way we have heard, taking it to other houses and it craves saw that solar enough for him.
 This, however, was doubtless part of a pre-arranged scheme
so that he should not be drawn from a destined path, for at a small village lying on the southern
shore of a large lake, called by those around Silent Water, he heard of the existence of a
certain sacred island, distant a full day's sailing, which was barren of all forms of living
things, and contained only a single gigantic rock of divine origin and majestic appearance.
Many persons, the villagers asserted, had sailed to the island in the hope of learning the
portent of the rock, but none ever returned, and they themselves avoided coming even within
sight of it; for the sacred stone, they declared, exercised an evil influence over their ships,
and would, if permitted, draw them out of their course and towards itself. For this reason
Yin could find no guide, whatever reward he offered, who would accompany him; but having with
difficulty succeeded in hiring a small boat of inconsiderable value, he embarked with food,
incense, and materials for building fires, and after rowing consistently for nearly the whole
of the day, came within sight of the island at evening. Thereafter the necessity of further
exertion ceased, for, as they of the village had declared would be the case, the vessel moved
gently forward, in an unswerving line, without being in any way propelled, and reaching its
destination in a marvellously short space of time, passed behind a protecting spur of land
and came to rest. It then being night, Yin did no more than carry his stores to a place of
safety, and after lighting a sacrificial fire and prostrating himself before the rock, passed
into the Middle Air.

In the morning Yin's spirit came back to the earth amid the sound of music of a celestial origin,
which ceased immediately he recovered full consciousness. Accepting this manifestation as an
omen of Divine favour, Yin journeyed towards the centre of the island where the rock stood,
at every step passing the bones of innumerable ones who had come on a similar quest to his,
and perished. Many of these had left behind them inscriptions on wood or bone testifying their
deliberate opinion of the sacred rock, the island, their protecting deities, and the entire
train of circumstances, which had resulted in their being in such a condition. These were for
the most part of a maledictory and unencouraging nature, so that after reading a few, Yin endeavoured
to pass without being in any degree influenced by such ill-judged outbursts.

"Accursed be the ancestors of this tormented one to four generations back!" was prominently
traced upon an unusually large shoulder-blade. "May they at this moment be simmering in a vat
of unrefined dragon's blood, as a reward for having so undiscriminatingly reared the person
who inscribes these words only to attain this end!" "Be warned, O later one, by the signs around!"
Another and more practical-minded person had written: "Retreat with all haste to your vessel,
and escape while there is yet time. Should you, by chance, again reach land through this warning,
do not neglect, out of an emotion of gratitude, to burn an appropriate amount of sacrifice
paper for the lessening of the torments of the spirit of Li-Kao," to which an unscrupulous
one, who was plainly desirous of sharing in the benefit of the requested sacrifice, without
suffering the exertion of inscribing a warning after the amiable manner of Li-Kao, had added
the words, "and that of Huan Sin."

Halting at a convenient distance from one side of the rock which, without being carved by any
person's hand, naturally resembled the symmetrical countenance of a recumbent dragon (which
he therefore conjectured to be the chief point of the entire mass), Yin built his fire and
began an unremitting course of sacrifice and respectful ceremony. This manner of conduct he
observed conscientiously for the space of seven days. Towards the end of that period a feeling
of unendurable dejection began to possess him, for his stores of all kinds were beginning to
fail, and he could not entirely put behind him the memory of the various well-intentioned warnings
which he had received, or the sight of the fleshless ones who had lined his path. On the eighth
day, being weak with hunger and, by reason of an intolerable thirst, unable to restrain his
body any longer in the spot where he had hitherto continuously prostrated himself nine-and-ninety
times each hour without ceasing, he rose to his feet and retraced his steps to the boat in
order that he might fill his water-skins and procure a further supply of food.

With a complicated emotion, in which was present every abandoned and disagreeable thought to
which a person becomes a prey in moments of exceptional mental and bodily anguish, he perceived
as soon as he reached the edge of the water that the boat, upon which he was confidently relying
to carry him back when all else failed, had disappeared as entirely as the smoke from an extinguished
opium pipe. At this sight Yin clearly understood the meaning of Li-Kao's unregarded warning,
and recognized that nothing could now save him from adding his incorruptible parts to those
of the unfortunate ones whose unhappy fate had, seven days ago, engaged his refined pity. Unaccountably
strengthened in body by the indignation which possessed him, and inspired with a virtuous repulsion
at the treacherous manner of behaving on the part of those who guided his destinies, he hastened
back to his place of obeisance, and perceiving that the habitually placid and introspective
expression on the dragon face had imperceptibly changed into one of offensive cunning and unconcealed
contempt, he snatched up his spear and, without the consideration of a moment, hurled it at
a score of paces distance full into the sacred but nevertheless very unprepossessing face before
him.

At the instant when the presumptuous weapon touched the holy stone the entire intervening space
between the earth and the sky was filled with innumerable flashes of forked and many-tongued
lightning, so that the island had the appearance of being the scene of a very extensive but
somewhat badly-arranged display of costly fireworks. At the same time the thunder rolled among
the clouds and beneath the sea in an exceedingly disconcerting manner. At the first indication
of these celestial movements a sudden blindness came upon Yin, and all power of thought or
movement forsook him; nevertheless, he experienced an emotion of flight through the air, as
though borne upwards upon the back of a winged creature. When this emotion ceased, the blindness
went from him as suddenly and entirely as if a cloth had been pulled away from his eyes, and
he perceived that he was held in the midst of a boundless space, with no other object in view
than the sacred rock, which had opened, as it were, revealing a mighty throng within, at the
sight of whom Yin's internal organs trembled as they would never have moved at ordinary danger,
for it was put into his spirit that these in whose presence he stood were the sacred Emperors
of his country from the earliest time until the usurpation of the Chinese throne by the devouring
Tartar hordes from the North.

As Yin gazed in fear-stricken amazement, a knowledge of the various Pure Ones who composed
the assembly came upon him. He understood that the three unclad and commanding figures which
stood together were the Emperors of the Heaven, Earth, and Man, whose reigns covered a space
of more than eighty thousand years, commencing from the time when the world began its span
of existence. Next to them stood one wearing a robe of leopard-skin, his hand resting upon
a staff of a massive club, while on his face the expression of tranquillity which marked his
predecessors had changed into one of alert wakefulness; it was the Emperor of Houses, whose
reign marked the opening of the never-ending strife between man and all other creatures. By
his side stood his successor, the Emperor of Fire, holding in his right hand the emblem of
the knotted cord, by which he taught man to cultivate his mental faculties, while from his
mouth issued smoke and flame, signifying that by the introduction of fire he had raised his
subjects to a state of civilized life.

On the other side of the boundless chamber which seemed to be contained within the rocks were
Fou-Hy, Tchang-Ki, Tcheng-Nung, and Huang, standing or reclining together. The first of these
framed the calendar, organized property, thought out the eight Essential Diagrams, encouraged
the various branches of hunting, and the rearing of domestic animals, and instituted marriage.
From his couch floated melodious sounds in remembrance of his discovery of the property of
stringed woods. Tchang-Ki, who manifested the property of herbs and growing plants, wore a
robe signifying his attainments by means of embroidered symbols. His hand rested on the head
of the dragon, while at his feet flowed a bottomless canal of the purest water. The discovery
of written letters by Tcheng-Nung, and his ingenious plan of grouping them after the manner
of the constellations of stars, was emblemized in a similar manner, while Huang, or the Yellow
Emperor, was surrounded by ores of the useful and precious metals, weapons of warfare, written
books, silks and articles of attire, coined money, and a variety of objects, all testifying
to his ingenuity and inspired energy.

These illustrious ones, being the greatest, were the first to take Yin's attention, but beyond
them he beheld an innumerable concourse of Emperors who not infrequently outshone their majestic
predecessors in the richness of their apparel and the magnificence of the jewels which they
wore. There Yin perceived Hung-Hoang, who first caused the chants to be collected, and other
rulers of the Tcheon dynasty; Yong-Tching, who compiled the Holy Edict; Thang rulers whose
line is rightly called "the golden," from the unsurpassed excellence of the composed verses
which it produced; renowned Emperors of the versatile Han dynasty; and, standing apart, and
shunned by all, the malignant and narrow-minded Tsing-Su-Hoang, who caused the Sacred Books
to be burned.

Even while Yin looked and wondered, in great fear, a rolling voice, coming from one who sat
in the midst of all, holding in his right hand the sun, and in his left the moon, sounded forth,
like the music of many brass instruments playing in unison. It was the First Man who spoke.

"Yin, son of Yat Huang, and creature of the Lower Part," he said, "listen well to the words
I speak, for brief is the span of your tarrying in the Upper Air, nor will the utterance I
now give forth ever come unto your ears again, either on the earth, or when, blindly groping
in the Middle Distance, your spirit takes its nightly flight. They who are gathered around,
and whose voices I speak, bid me say this: Although immeasurably above you in all matters,
both of knowledge and of power, yet we greet you as one who is well-intentioned, and inspired
with honourable ambition. Had you been content to entreat and despair, as did all the feeble
and incapable ones whose white bones formed your pathway, your ultimate fate would have in
no wise differed from theirs. But inasmuch as you held yourself valiantly, and, being taken,
raised an instinctive hand in return, you have been chosen; for the day to mute submission
has, for the time or for ever, passed away, and the hour is when China shall be saved, not
by supplication, but by the spear."

"A state of things which would have been highly unnecessary if I had been permitted to carry
out my intention fully, and restore man to his prehistoric simplicity," interrupted Tsin-Su-Hoang.
"For that reason, when the voice of the assemblage expresses itself, it must be understood
that it represents in no measure the views of Tsin-Su-Hoang."

"In the matter of what has gone before, and that which will follow hereafter," continued the
Voice dispassionately, "Yin, the son of Yat-Huang, must concede that it is in no part the utterance
of Tsin-Su-Hoang--Tsin-Su-Hoang who burned the Sacred Books."

At the mention of the name and offence of this degraded being a great sound went up from the
entire multitude--a universal cry of execration, not greatly dissimilar from that which may
be frequently heard in the crowded Temple of Impartiality when the one whose duty it is to
take up, at a venture, the folded papers, announces that the sublime Emperor, or some mandarin
of exalted rank, has been so fortunate as to hold the winning number in the Annual State Lottery. 

COLLECTION OF THE TREASURY.

Funds raised in the Philippines suffers from certain vices that removed, as it is easy, would give
a successful outcome and increase revenue to the treasury. Indeed, the progress of the fundraising
Indian tribute is reduced to charge more or less stringent than are the ministers of public
finances to the mayors and managers of such collection correjidores and This is done by computations
that these mayors go to that office. This adheres to Thus, the same as for trial accounts,
to the ancient instructions rijen in the matter with this or that small modification readopted
as it seemed, according to Messrs. subdelegados superintendents of public finances, which have
varied according to opinion and concept that each has formed. The more strict or moderate their
compliance given their mayors or correjidores subdelegados is the second extreme, and all this
does not happen a charge routinely made wrong and what they should charge, was taken after their
accounts for what they have done and due to perform, the first thing we demand strict, and obrándose
in the latter according to the particular circumstances of each case often seeing that some
mayors to absolve them what uncollected charges, and others were condemned to their payment
because they were not so skilled to justify any cause because it claimed, when in my opinion
no one can authorize the acquittal of the non-charged, excepting the death of a taxpayer, or
the passing of this from one province to another, only ones that
can support them absolve: all else is intrigue, deceit and falsehood.

This anomaly makes clear about how easy it is for correjidores and mayors to defraud the Exchequer
care is not said to be disappointed, but it's easy to happen, and reform to be very simple
at this point, nothing more just and according to it, because the main purpose of the collection
must take the place safer and more clear that is susceptible, and the proceeds put in the best
custody, being unable collectors can not even try the smallest concealment, it is clear that
the more assured is the fundraising, and the greater the care custody, the greater and more
satisfactory than the results will be derived either. This is so look for the modest tribute
from the Indians and mestizos, and the most grown up of the Chinese, office and principal object
in which the mayors correjidores and occupy all his attention, therefore formed to fill the
position, as to have funds available for its traffic and shops, which is the second and main
point of their occupations, as noted, all others care for their jobs are as secondary or accessory,
and we are not strictly binding. The administration of justice, grooming and city police, the
composition and repair of roads and bridges and other public works, everything is looked at
General-with little or no attention, they always engaged in receivables, to cover their position
and acquire funds with which to gather cargo and forwarded to Manila, taking their profits
and increase his fortune many times without noticing the means of doing so, everything else gets
very little attention. Authorized to trade instruction to the state by paying a modest return
for this privilege, entitled pardon to trade, clear and therefore they do with the treasury
funds they collect and administer, using his authority, that some or most of the time used
to cause humiliation and outrages, for if it were not so impossible a mayor would sacase correjidor
or some say the amounts taken out in the short period of three or six years that are provided.
From here, it derives the great vice of these revenues, to wit, that these employees dedicated
to their private businesses, public disregard the destination, using those filling his authority,
to the detriment of the people and damage to the Indians and national interests, it seems, in
the manner with which today are managed, for mainly to form the heritage of the mayors and
correjidores, if their speculation go wrong and if wrong, to cause irreparable loss to the
Treasury. A proof of this Truth is the accumulation of expedients that there is always in
court over accounts of procedures against mayors and correjidores, some failed, and others with long lags
so been administered, and all these debtors to the Treasury. Remove at once to the judges that
trade provinces, and the treasury will earn much, not least for its oppressed peoples authority,
so those who only see their mayors, and disclosed by a parent correjidores its well and good,
dedicated exclusively to fulfilling its ministry, which it served provided the Indians all
the happiness and abundance that they can enjoy if they reform the court system, as indicated
in part on the administration justice, because the circumstances of peoples, their population
and rising wealth so as required and to destroy the obstacles to the development of such interesting
objects in any extent.

For more urjente convince you of this need, it suffices to know that
just by being appointed sugeto correjidor a mayor or, as is believed
rich, and even in Spain, mainly in Court, has spread the voice enough
to be mayor of a province of the Philippines to become rich: much
has this to exaggeration, and fully in practice there are many sad
disappointments but it is also true that some, not many, who had nothing,
to be administered a province three or six years, fortunes have risen
thick, it may be deducted as fill the duties of his employment, and
as justice to the people entrusted to them, and how they have handled
public funds.

In view of this demonstration, the supreme Government of the Metropolis will deign to take into
consideration the grounds that it exposes to proceed as soon as possible to the reform, the
principles of justice as well as the circumstances require so interesting for industry.

But it is noted that having no rule without exception, anyone who has been mayor or correjidor
in the provinces of the Philippines may be complaining, because nothing is said in particular against
mayors or correjidores good, there have been, and will there are very good and industrious;
but also on the contrary, and there was terrible, because men are not always ones, and such
as they should be for himself and his fellow: but let this matter, that already been treated and
has returned to play here, because mayors and correjidores collected and given part of the national
treasury, and move on to dealing with employees, contributions and
rents.

Here is precisely where it is essential to relieve the author of this report, such as begging, any
indulgence for protesting as his mood does not hurt in the slightest the character, views and
opinions of any particular employee, for his plan only reduces to express the momentum that
rents could be, and indicate that with the gradual increase employees who have those offices
here twenty years if it continues, very soon not be sufficient revenues to meet Treasury salaries,
pensions, retirements and other charges that is overloaded with this
purse, and impoverished as well as the country, and it is necessary
time to deal with this damage and cut so as not to expose himself
undergoes the dire consequences I could bring, and that few will stop
to see them.

§. III.

EMPLOYEES.

Taking the trouble to compare the payrolls that existed in the Philippines in 1820 with those that
exist today, of course it will have doubled or perhaps tripled, but so is more Espedito and current course
of business, so the number of employees should be reduced to the
purely accurate and necessary, and that hotbed of course cease of
them, which under the dictation of pensioners with three hundred pesos
a year, have sent there to await placement even to many who should
be learning ..... what they mind knowing, but not so imajinarios obtar
jobs to the issuing of its placement for those countries, which have
burdened the public treasury, not be useful in a long time those who
come to exploit.

Add to this that after a job cow is provided in the Peninsula, the
most often without attention to scale, merits and services, and any
known disgust that this must cause, and how badly served are jobs
until the time EXPERIENCE and teach new graceful as when there were
ignored.

Could cite examples, but this would be my intention to leave and
hurt people in any way belittle my soul is nothing of his character
and concept.

I agree it is a prerogative of the supreme government provision of jobs, but the of pure grace, such
as heads, but this government, that the epithet of just that gives you to be real and effective,
it seems that sometimes, if not all, the scale should consult employees, although the services
of each one, and that its greatest merit, ability, knowledge and higher category is the rise,
pass, only means of entering the noble emulation among employees of all kinds, the administration
is conferred to the more deserving in every respect, and revenues were well managed and directed,
and obtained building that are susceptible and in the Philippines until the day it can be
said that estate is in its infancy, or is something up by nascent and ancient routines and
is modified only by the greatest number of hands that now occupies.

On the other hand, the abundance of workers as unnecessary and which taxes to the Treasury, are
other damages of no less consideration: such are the cluster of unoccupied
jente so little conducive to the public tranquility, that always exist
in all offices escedentes, aggregates and supernumeraries for a vacancy
occurs, there are a hundred to whom place of effective with obvious
prejudice to the scale and the worthy sons of the Spanish, who are
also creditors to attend them according to their ability and merit,
and history of their parents, demand policy principles of public convenience
and rigorous justice, and finally in this part is to say that if the
administration of public finances has to be good order to be observed
and the potential savings, much more in the present times shortages
and hardship for the busy-state, neither will be achieved by increasing
employees every day, always unnecessary, and having an excess number
of aggregates, which upon affect the scale of numbers, amounts of
body absorbs annually for salaries they enjoy.

Another reform in this part and not least is that pensions are not granted some in the Peninsula,
payable from the funds of the Philippines, and to withdraw granted: something there are already ahead on
this, but not everything should be. In good time for the viudedades, retirement and pensions
of those who have served and died in the Philippines are paid as fair for their boxes, but
these people, if they come to Spain, in justice should come with them pensions, with the corresponding
low value difference of the currency. This I seems a trifle, is the first step in establishing the
economies to be made at that Exchequer savings claimed by the circumstances, which of them
will be cut old introduced in this part of abuse.

The decrease of employees to the purely accurate and necessary, is another cardinal basis economic
reforms and, if considered at their true worth the sacrifices that people make they contribute
with their sweat to pay the charges state, because these terms reduce possible, is to relieve the
burdens of the people, and enrich the nation.

§. IV.

CONTRIBUTIONS.

The tax or personal contribution of the Indians, though very moderate, can not be increased
in any direction without exposing the government to great evils, because, being infinite number
of poor Indians, or who earn only their livelihood, to this part
of whom would be large aflijiria a surcharge of contribution: later,
and when he has given some impetus and promotion to the class of owners,
and when the property is found distributed in many hands, it advisable
to increase the tax you pay now with a lot of inequality in respect
of the trade of laborers and artisans.

The payment of this contribution is usually made in kind and in cash, or both, and this brings harm
and severity of consideration, so the quantity and quality of what is received, such as costs
and damage to transportation and storage. A retributive account finance offices in Manila on
this Jenera of operations, has indicated reliable results the Government to make a determination
at this point, but anyway must proceed from the principle that when government employees perform
such Jenera traffics in free trade, he always loses because their agents are bad administrators,
who lack the calculation and knowledge of market prices and other
attending circumstances and always attend private traders in business
own.

Well not be denied that the mayors in their provinces as Barangay heads in the people responsible
for immediately collecting tribute from the Indians, have influenced
some thing in the need to switch the payment of tribute money to sort,
to some and others better their business, but in my opinion this is
not only the cause that has introduced such a system collection detrimental
to all, because the Indian is not so dumb or innocent ceases sell
their agricultural production to whom the pay is greater than the
price Tariff, under which he received in kind by the heads and mayors.

The cause principal has become almost necessary and indispensable
this switching, and that directly work course to the detriment of
the Indian, and some against the public treasury, is the lack of a
coin only peculiar colonial Philippines, as do all other European
possessions of the Asia, whose need, as well as the benefits of all
sorts that would bring, will be discussed in separate paragraph, according
deserve.

This vivificaria domestic trade, would facilitate the payment levied,
and would encourage other indirect contributions established.

Indirect contributions by stagnant incomes in the Philippines, are most analogous to the nature
of some people, who generously provided fertile ground for his all necessary means to their
food, become objects of primary necessity superfluous joys to life. It must, therefore, a constant
maximum promote good governance and administration to rectify the of these indirect contributions,
especially that of snuff and wine, not only because they by itself
sufficient to thoroughly cover all the burdens of state in all areas,
but because in the case of a war and total lack of trade, will the
Government is firm support of its existence, and not to give ear to
the month featured and proposals of those who in good or bad faith,
or at least ignorance, working for free from stagnation to the Islands.

Ultimately,

it is noted that these contributions are not interim jeneralicen by all Archipelago provinces
subject to the Spanish rule, so as to extinguish the focus the large contraband always resides
in the provinces exempt, and to adopt reforms necessary for better administration and development,
products in the Exchequer must be quite disproportionate to the consumption of large population
of the islands, as can be inferred and known by what they say then trying to snuff on the income
of Philippines.

§. V.

INCOME OF SNUFF.

The income that keeps the islands, which can not be subrogated to another, and that well-established
and administered and yields would produce incalculable benefits, the income of the snuff. Three million
and a half, all without exception of sex or age of snuff consumers, and each of which matched
the classes and a very low calculation can be adjusted Strong consumer four dollars a year
per person, would produce a tax of fourteen millions of dollars, that out of the land and the
arts to give the same time a great trade promotion. This calculation is not a paradox, is a practical
reality and truth, for snuff use is as a first necessity for the Indians, who may object to this
form the same calculation would be formed on the consumption of bread in Spain, or on another
article of greatest need, if any.

The snuff of the Philippines for their quality, and according to the
taste and national consumer opinion and strangers, took the first
place, after Havana, among all classes of tobacco grown in Asia and
America, and the price advantage that constantly keeps Manila snuff
markets in India, China, Batavia, Marianas Islands, Cape of Good Hope
and other points over all other sources, justifies this concept, as
well as the swollen rights that most of these arrangements have been
recharged.

So also for quality offered special that plant, a vast and important article of commerce. However,
state the reasons which prevent nswers get the benefits as tight and as branch branch of commerce.

The
establishment of this income in some provinces of the islands and not others, especially in overseas,
on the island of Luzon, three kinds of causes serious damage. 1st Failure in the treasury of the contribution
of the tobacco-free villages, whose privilege also maintains unequal and unjust condition among
subjects from the same government. 2D The lack of consumption in the provinces of the tobacco
smuggling causes abundant free provinces are in favor of the easy transportation by sea and
the extent of the costs not populated on the island of Luzon, which favors both landings. And
3rd Increased costs in much fruitless in the protection of the sea
makes the rent.

This damage is so obvious being on the day subject to tight a little less than half of that
population in the Philippines income produces only fourth or fifth of what a reasonable estimate
was to produce.


"Provided the story be suitable, that is a matter of less importance," replied this person.

"The story," said the one in the easy-chair, "is by the refined Tong-king, and it treats of
the high-minded and conscientious doubts of one who would become a priest of Fo. When preparing
for this distinguished office he discovers within himself leanings towards the religion of
Lao-Tse. His illustrious scruples are enhanced by his affection for Wu Ping, who now appears
in the story."

"And the ending?" inquired this person, for it was desirable that the two should marry happily.

"The inimitable stories of Tong-king never have any real ending, and this one, being in his
most elevated style, has even less end than most of them. But the whole narrative is permeated
with the odour of joss-sticks and honourable high-mindedness, and the two characters are both
of noble birth."

As it might be some time before another story so suitable should be offered, or one which would
afford so good an opportunity of wafting incense to Tien, and of displaying her incomparable
outline in dignified and magnanimous attitudes, this was eagerly accepted, and for the next
week this obscure person spent all his days and nights in picturing the lovely Tien and his
debased self in the characters of the nobly-born young priest of Fo and Wu Ping. The pictures
finished, he caused them to be carefully conveyed to the office, and then, sitting down, spent
many hours in composing the following letter, to be sent to Tien, accompanying a copy of the
printed leaves wherein the story and his drawing should appear:

"When the light has for a period been hidden from a person, it is no uncommon thing for him
to be struck blind on gazing at the sun; therefore, if the sublime Tien values the eyes of
Kin Yen, let her hide herself behind a gauze screen on his approach.

"The trembling words of Tien have sunk deep into the inside of Kin Yen and become part of his
being. Never again can he depict persons of the quality and in the position he was wont to do.

"With this he sends his latest efforts. In each case he conceives his drawings to be the pictures
of the written words; in the noble Tien's case it is undoubtedly so, in his own he aspires
to it. Doubtless the unobtrusive Tien would make no claim to the character and manner of behaving
of the one in the story, yet Kin Yen confidently asserts that she is to the other as the glove
is to the hand, and he is filled with the most intelligent delight at being able to exhibit
her in her true robes, by which she will be known to all who see her, in spite of her dignified
protests. Kin Yen hopes; he will come this evening after sunset."

The week which passed between the finishing of the pictures and the appearance of the eminent
printed leaves containing them was the longest in this near-sighted person's ill-spent life.
But at length the day arrived, and going with exceedingly mean haste to the place of sale,
he purchased a copy and sent it, together with the letter of his honourable intention, on which
he had bestowed so much care, to Tien.

Not till then did it occur to this inconsiderable one that the impetuousness of his action
was ill-judged; for might it not be that the pictures were evilly-printed, or that the delicate
and fragrant words painting the character of the one who now bore the features of Tien had
undergone some change?

To satisfy himself, scarce as taels had become with him, he purchased another copy.

There are many exalted sayings of the wise and venerable Confucious constructed so as to be
of service and consolation in moments of strong mental distress. These for the greater part
recommend tranquillity of mind, a complete abnegation of the human passions and the like behaviour.
The person who is here endeavouring to bring this badly-constructed account of his dishonourable
career to a close pondered these for some moments after twice glancing through the matter in
the printed leaves, and then, finding the faculties of speech and movement restored to him,
procured a two-edged knife of distinguished brilliance and went forth to call upon the one
who sits in an easy-chair.

"Behold," said the lesser one, insidiously stepping in between this person an the inner door,
"my intellectual and all-knowing chief is not here to-day. May his entirely insufficient substitute
offer words of congratulation to the inspired Kin Yen on his effective and striking pictures
in this week's issue?"

"His altogether insufficient substitute," answered this person, with difficulty mastering his
great rage, "may and shall offer words of explanation to the inspired Kin Yen, setting forth
the reason of his pictures being used, not with the high-minded story of the elegant Tong-king
for which they were executed, but accompanying exceedingly base, foolish, and ungrammatical
words written by Klan-hi, the Peking remover of gravity--words which will evermore brand the
dew-like Tien as a person of light speech and no refinement"; and in his agony this person
struck the lacquered table several times with his elegant knife.

"O Kin Yen," exclaimed the lesser one, "this matter rests not here. It is a thing beyond the
sphere of the individual who is addressing you. On the day this administration is to deliver tight sometime
in the year the letters received from the Peninsula, and formerly of New Spain Naos in Acapulco
and the Philippines real company that went from America, or the Cape of Good Hope.


"Judge for yourself," this person said, "first understanding that the two immaculate characters
figuring as the personages of the narrative are exact copies of this dishonoured person himself
and of the willowy Tien, daughter of the vastly rich Pe-li-Chen, whom he was hopeful of marrying."

Selecting one of the least offensive of the passages in the work, this unhappy person read
the following immature and inelegant words:

"This well-satisfied writer of printed leaves had a highly-distinguished time last night. After
Chow had departed to see about food, and the junk had been fastened up at the lock of Kilung,
on the Yang-tse-Kiang, he and the round-bodied Shang were journeying along the narrow path
by the river-side when the right leg of the graceful and popular person who is narrating these
events disappeared into the river. Except for the slight mention
they deserve to Leon Pinelo and Nicolas Antonio, and that reference to what he said the Dominican,
Betancourt's book resumes not until today, said two or three times, not distinction, by Prescott
in his Conquest of Peru, among the materials that served to reconstruct the past or fantasizing
that vast monarchy. But the title under which makes his short quotations, showing that the manuscript
he had at hand is that of Fray Gregorio original or copy, but a transfer of existing in the same
codex L j 5 library Escorial of keeping anonymous the second part of the Chronicle of Peru Cieza
de Leon, and that the famous North-American historian probably would receive another shipment
of that second part, endorsed by the person who took the roles of Lord Kingsborough to Juan
de Sarmiento, and sent to London by Mr. Rich, and copy of the book to the existing Betanzos Escorial
has a long way, unfortunately, to be complete. At least, as the summer I found myself 1875 in a
thick bound volume many years ago and all its pages - and I presume that would find the same luck
that brought the copy to Kingsborough - consisted only of the principles and the first eighteen
chapters, the last incomplete.

And that's not the worst, but in my opinion, this fragment, although substantial, is only now
hearing the Narrative of the Incas. The silence of bibliophiles and the Dominican chroniclers,
on the one hand and another on any results of my efforts in search of the MS., held and used Brother
Gregorio, and surely the convent Legaria where he died, are ominous signs.

Now, what should be examined with a view of these fatal assumptions, is whether those principles and
chapters are worth to be published before and with time, or whether it will be preferable to
wait that looks to the rest, and yet together, form an adequate idea of ​​the importance of the
work and merit of the author and then decide whether they deserve
the honor of the print.

I will not deny that in these things as good Spanish, am guilty of impatience, but what if I
had Betanzos to wait for ever?, which could well happen. Moreover, what makes them remains
of his treatise, I think that really mattered and that is highly useful for studying Peruvian antiquities,
and not only by the news that they only intended, and for the invaluable fact been picked up and
learned all the data they contain since the early years of the Conquest
until 1551, but especially for its style, that makes none. She even includes the
brace of puppies which she received anonymously about a month ago, and which she did not eat,
but kept for reasons of her own--reasons entirely unconnected with the vapid and exceedingly
conceited Kin Yen."

As though this letter, and the puppies of which this person now heard for the first time, making
him aware of the existence of a rival lover, were not enough, there almost immediately arrived
a letter from Tien's father:

"This person has taken the advice of those skilled in extorting money by means of law forms,
and he finds that Kin Yen has been guilty of a grave and highly expensive act. This is increased
by the fact that Tien had conveyed his seemingly distinguished intentions to all her friends,
before whom she now stands in an exceedingly ungraceful attitude. The machinery for depriving
Kin Yen of all the necessaries of existence shall be put into operation at once." There is revealed in works immortal genius Murillo,
Herrera and other great masters, alongside much higher sculptors. In the royal chapel worship
the statue of Ferdinand the Catholic and are among other notable graves Don Alonso the sage and
his mother Dona Beatriz.

The sacristy contains immense wealth in jewels and sacred vessels, and is prodigious pomp displays
the clergy Seville during Holy Week for the headdress and robes of the Virgin. How much misery would
not be alleviated if the Catholic Church renouncing luxury of ostentation that offends the supreme
majesty and heritage of the Godhead, and undermines the noble simplicity Christianity, to renounce
the pagan customs and dedicated to the education and welfare the
immense treasures that lie unproductive in the sacristy!

       

* * * * *

The Alcazar of Seville, universal popularity, is without question one of the most beautiful monuments
Arabic architecture, but in no way can be compared to the Alhambra. Truth eminent is that this
is an exceptional situation, while the Fortress is like hiding in the very heart of Seville,
scarcely 500 meters from the cathedral. Begun by the Moors in 1111
and completed in its lower or first body in 1181, was the residence
of the kings Moors until the reconquest of Seville in 1247. Touched
him Don Pedro the Cruel construction the second floor, which completed
the building. 

By the way, instigated by malicious Celemín, had spread around the word that Pillars there would
be a great opening day spree. Then came the high-profile occasion.

Crowd of students were distributed at strategic locations.