When the war was ended most of the Mohawk nation were dwelling on the west bank of the Niagara
river. They had pitched their wigwams close to the landing-place, now Lewiston, which was some
miles above the fort. Their old territory was situated in the heart of the country of their
conquerors and to this they could not return with safety. The Senecas, who lived near by, saw
how sad was their plight and offered them land upon which they might reside. The Mohawks appreciated
the kindness of this proposal of the warlike nation which had fought by their side in the long
struggle, but they could not accept the offer. In the words of Brant himself, they were resolved
to 'sink or swim' with the English.

To settle the matter the War Chief journeyed down the St Lawrence to confer with the Canadian
leaders. At Quebec he met General Haldimand and was welcomed by this officer with the sincerest
friendship and given a chance to discuss the unhappy lot of his homeless people. Haldimand
said that he would be quite ready to fulfil the promises that he had made during the war. Brant
replied that his tribesmen would like to settle on English ground, and named the region on
the Bay of Quinte as a spot suited to their needs. These lands were especially fertile and
beautiful, and Haldimand was quite willing that the grant should be made in accordance with
their wishes. He said that a tract would soon be purchased and given to the warriors of the
Six Nations. Brant must have been well accompanied on his journey to the east, since on his
way back twenty Indian families turned aside and pitched their abodes in the territory allotted
to them on the Bay of Quinte. They were ruled by an Indian named Captain John, and a thriving
Mohawk settlement was thus begun. Brant continued his journey along the south side of Lake
Ontario, and came once again to Niagara.

But when the War Chief told the waiting redskins of his negotiations with General Haldimand
there was a great outcry of dissatisfaction. The Senecas, who were the chief objectors, stated
that they could not allow their kinsmen and old comrades-in-arms to go so far away from them
as the Bay of Quinte. The Senecas were still afraid that they might have difficulties with
the people of the United States, in whose country they were dwelling. The Mohawks must be near
at hand to come to their rescue should the hatchet again be upraised.

Brant felt very keenly for the Senecas, who had done him such yeoman service in the war. They
could be cruel in combat, but were very loyal to their friends, and he knew that something
must be done for them. Accordingly, he repaired a second time to Quebec and again discussed
the situation with General Haldimand. The outcome was that he obtained another grant of land,
on the Grand river, which runs with a southerly course into the waters of Lake Erie. A tract
six miles wide on each side of this stream, extending from its source to its mouth, was allotted
to the Six Nations. This beautiful district, bordering on the shore of Lake Erie, only forty
miles from the outer fringe of the Seneca villages, was in a direct line of intercourse between
the Six Nations and the many tribes of the west and the upper lakes. Brant obtained the title-deeds
to this territory for the Indians in the autumn of 1784, under the seal of royal authority.
It was a gift, as indicated by the terms of the award, 'which the Mohawks and others of the
Six Nations... with their posterity,' were to enjoy for ever.

Having been provided with a new home, the band of copper-hued patriots now began to cross the
Niagara. They were loyalists of another than the white race, and, like the other Loyalists,
they had left their Long Houses behind in the hands of the stranger. On their bodies were the
marks and scars of many a campaign; their limbs had become suppler with the long march and
swarthier in the summer sun; they did not dare to cast a glance back at the fair land that
had been the hunting-ground of their fathers. With them were their women, dark-eyed Amazons
of the north. Their little ones toddled by their side. The journey was shortly over and they
beheld the waters of the Grand river, flowing between their narrow banks. Here, in the flowering
glades, they raised their tents and lit anew their council fires. Then they toiled up against
the current, searching out the borders of their country; down-stream they shot again, their
glad eyes beaming as they saw how wide and goodly was their heritage.

The nation of the Mohawks had come to Canada to stay. Among them settled many from their kindred
tribes, red men who would not forsake their Great White Father the King. By the sheltering
boughs of the regal maple, the silver-garbed beech, or the drooping willow they built the rough
huts of a forest people. Then they tilled the soil, and learned to love their new abode. Although
of a ferocious stock, unrivalled in the arts of savage warfare, the Mohawks and other Indians
of the Six Nations in Canada have rarely, if ever, been surpassed by any other red men in the
ways of peace.

CHAPTER XII

ENGLAND ONCE MORE

Meanwhile, how was it faring with the tribesmen of the Six Nations who had remained in their
former territories east of the Niagara? They were anxious to come to terms with the government
of the United States, but not by themselves alone. In any treaty which might be made, they
wished the concurrence of the western tribes. The officials of the new republic were, however,
opposed to this and treated their desire with scant courtesy. In 1784 a conference was called
at Fort Stanwix, but the western tribes were not invited to come. While this was taking place,
Red Jacket, the Seneca orator, rose in the company of his fellows and uttered a speech burning
with eloquence. His attitude towards the Americans had undergone a change since Brant had undone
his treachery before the war had closed. The Six Nations should renew the contest, said Red
Jacket. Never should they submit to the yoke of their oppressors. On the other hand, Chief
Cornplanter, with sounder judgment, argued for peace. It would surely be an unwise thing for
the Indians to enter upon a fresh war single-handed, and without the assistance of their former
allies, the English.

At length Cornplanter had his way, and on October 22 a treaty was made with the representatives
of the United States. By this treaty the Indians were to give up all the prisoners of war still
in their hands. Until this was done, six hostages were to be furnished from among their number.
At the same time, the boundaries of the country over which they held sway were defined.

Loud murmurs of complaint arose within the Six Nations on the completion of this pact, and
no one was more angry than Joseph Brant himself. He was at Quebec, on the point of leaving
for England, but he hurried back on learning the terms of the treaty. He was especially exasperated
because Aaron Hill, one of the lesser chiefs of the Mohawks, was to be given up as a hostage.
Arriving at Cataraqui, Brant, on November 27, sent a long and stirring letter to Colonel Munroe.
In this he showed that his Indians were in no way to blame for the retention of prisoners of
war. The fight was over, and the Six Nations wanted harmony restored. With considerable feeling,
he referred to the 'customs and manners of the Mohawks.' 'They are always active and true,'
he protested; 'no double faces at war or any other business.

The difficulty was quickly righted and the War Chief satisfied, but he saw that all the Indian
races were in a precarious position and might, sooner or later, be drawn into hostilities.
Meanwhile he was meditating a scheme which might be likened to the bold conception of Pontiac.
In vision he saw all the Indian tribes united into one far-reaching confederacy for the assertion
of their liberties. Brant was of a singularly ambitious disposition and had no humble idea
of his own capacities. He pictured himself as the chosen head of such a vast league of the
native races. It was with this in view that at this very time he paid a visit to the western
tribes and sought to ascertain their ideas upon the subject.

At the close of 1785 Brant was ready to make his second journey across the Atlantic. It was
indeed fitting, after his years of active service for the crown, that he should do homage once
more at the English court. He desired, also, to plead the cause of his Mohawks, who had lost
so much in the struggle. It is even likely that he was pondering over his design of uniting
all the tribes and wished to disclose this scheme to the home authorities. A striking sketch
of the War Chief's appearance during this period is given by the Baroness Riedesel. This talented
lady, who had met the Mohawk chief at Quebec, was the wife of the noted general who led a troop
of Hessians in the War of the Revolution.

'I saw at this time,' she writes, 'the famous Indian Chief, Captain Brant. His manners are
polished: he expressed himself with fluency, and was much esteemed by General Haldimand.' The
strenuous scenes through which Brant had lived, indeed, seem to have left but little impression
on his face. 'I dined once with him at the General's,' continued the baroness. 'In his dress
he showed off to advantage the half military and half savage costume. His countenance was manly
and intelligent, and his disposition very mild.'

On his arrival in London for the second time, Brant received a welcome even exceeding that
which was given him on his first visit. He was lauded as king of the red men and lord of the
boundless forest. In the houses of the most illustrious people in the realm he was given a
place of high honour. One of those who took delight in Brant's company was Lord Percy, heir
to the dukedom of Northumberland. Lord Percy had served in America and had been adopted, according
to Indian custom, into one of the tribes of the Six Nations, and was called in its language
the Evergreen Brake. Charles James Fox, the statesman, was also among the admirers of the War
Chief. Fox caused a beautiful silver snuff-box to be sent to Brant, engraved with his initials.
The Prince of Wales was attracted by the chieftain and took Brant with him on many of his jaunts
about the capital. Brant was amazed at some of the places to which his royal conductor resorted.
At the royal palace he was warmly greeted by King George and Queen Charlotte and held in high
esteem.

His official visit to their Majesties was marked by a somewhat uncommon incident. As a dutiful
subject, it was in keeping with tradition that he should kiss the king's hand, but this he
refused to do. The War Chief could not bend, even before the greatest of potentates. Turning
to the queen, however, after the fashion of a cavalier, Brant said that he would be only too
pleased to kiss her hand. George III did not seem in the least annoyed. He appeared rather
to be delighted at this courtesy shown his queen, and so the affair passed happily.

One humorous episode which happened during Brant's stay in London caused quite a sensation.
Through the good graces of Earl Moira, he was invited to attend a masquerade ball in Mayfair.
It was to be a festive event, and people of distinguished rank were expected to be present.
Brant did not go to any pains to deck himself out artfully for the occasion, but was attired
only in the costume of his tribe. To change his appearance, he painted a portion of his face,
and arrived in this guise at the place of entertainment. As he entered the gay ball-room, his
lofty plumage swayed grandly and a glittering tomahawk shone from his girdle. The scene that
met his eyes was resplendent with life and beauty. Masked figures were flitting by, clad in
every imaginable garb. Here was a sleek-faced friar, rotund and merry; there, a gypsy maid,
or mild-eyed shepherdess with her stave. Lonely hermits and whimsical jesters, cackling witches,
and members of a pilgrim band--all thronged together with laugh or grimace, adding their own
peculiar lustre to the brilliant assembly. By and by a Turk came strolling down the floor;
he was a diplomat of high degree, and two nymphs from the paradise of Islam hovered near at
hand. Suddenly the Turk caught sight of the painted features of the sturdy redskin. He stopped,
and fixed the Indian with his gaze. Here, he thought, was the chance for a bit of frolic. In
a moment he had lost his stately demeanour and lurched jocularly towards the warrior. He reached
for the Indian's face, thinking it was screened with parchment. The next instant he had tweaked
the nose of the great chief of the Six Nations. Above the confusing medley of sounds burst
the wild accents of the blood-freezing war-whoop. On the instant Brant's tomahawk was forth
from his girdle, and was whirling about the head of the astonished offender. Never had such
a cry been heard within the halls of fashion. Faces turned ashen pale and screams resounded
through the spacious mansion. Helter-skelter, in every direction, fled the terrified masqueraders.
The Moslem thought that his last hour on earth had come. Then Brant's arm fell; his tense features
relaxed, and he had become once more the genial 'Captain of the Mohawks.' According to his
own declaration, which may or may not have been exactly true, he only intended a playful contribution
to the pleasures of the evening. The Turk was calmed, and the frightened company came slowly
streaming back. Everything was explained and Brant became a greater hero than ever before.
Yet it is hardly likely that the pompous follower of Islam ever forgot the lively scene which
his rashness had produced.

Notwithstanding the gay round of entertainment in which he joined, Brant had been attending
to the business matters that had brought him to England. He had sent a letter relative to the
affairs of the Six Nations to Lord Sydney, the secretary of state for Colonial Affairs, and
he delivered a speech upon the same topic in Sydney's presence. He told him of the losses sustained
by the Indians, and hoped that a speedy settlement would be made with them by the British government.
'On my mentioning these matters, since my arrival in England,' wrote Brant, 'I am informed
that orders are given that this shall be done; which will give great relief and satisfaction
to those faithful Indians, who will have spirit to go on, and their hearts [will] be filled
with gratitude for the King, their father's, kindness.'

Just before leaving for America, Brant received a letter from Lord Sydney saying that King
George desired that the red men should receive justice. 'His Majesty,' said Sydney, 'in consideration
of the zealous and hearty exertions of his Indian allies in the support of his cause, and as
a proof of his friendly disposition toward them, has been graciously pleased to consent that
the losses already certified by the Superintendent-General shall be made good.'

CHAPTER XIII

STATESMAN OF THE TRIBES

When Brant appeared again in the open councils of his people, he found the red men still in
a fretful mood. The Treaty of Fort Stanwix was a source of constant aggravation to them. The
white settlers were pressing over their frontiers so boldly that the Indians felt that their
lands must sooner or later slip from their grasp. England feared an outbreak of war, and the
Indians believed that in such a case she would aid them. A proof of this was the manner in
which she was keeping garrisons in the western posts which she had agreed to surrender. It
is now conceded that this was done because the United States had failed to live up to its pledges.
Be that as it may, Joseph Brant was expected in case of hostilities to organize the strong
league of native races that he had planned to form.

In November 1786 a great council of Indian tribes was held at Huron Village, on the Detroit
river. This was well attended, and its deliberations were very grave. An address, probably
written by Brant, was sent by order of the assembled Indians to the Congress of the United
States. Peace was desired, but it would be necessary for the Congressional representatives
to treat with the redskins as a whole; difficulties had been engendered because the United
States had entered into negotiations with separate tribes--'kindled council-fires wherever
it saw fit'--without ever deigning to consult the Indians as a whole; this, affirmed the address,
must happen no longer.

During the next few years the War Chief was unsparing in his efforts to come to some solution
of the problem which the attitude of the United States had presented. He was quite aware that
there was not enough concerted action among the various tribes. In his efforts to unite them
he was aided and supported in all that he did by the English officials. But, try as Brant might,
it seemed impossible to arrive at that wide union among the tribes at which he was aiming.
On every hand were differences of opinion and petty jealousies. In 1789 General St Clair, indeed,
was able to make two separate treaties with the Indians, much to the delight of the government
at Philadelphia. 'I am persuaded,' St Clair wrote confidently, '[that] their general confederacy
is entirely broken. Indeed it would not be very difficult, if circumstances required it, to
set them at deadly variance.'

But though unwilling to unite, it was with jealous and angry eyes that they watched the white
men cross the Ohio. The year 1790 found the western tribes ablaze with passion and again on
the war-path against the United States. The Shawnees, Potawatomis, and Miamis were the leaders
of the revolt. An expedition under General Harmar marched against them, but it was defeated
with great loss. The Six Nations were the next in arms, and fell without mercy on the settlements
by the Alleghany river.

The horizon was now dark and it seemed as though a widespread struggle with the Indians was
certain to occur. While the British authorities trusted implicitly in Joseph Brant, the executive
of the United States was also trying to win his confidence. Both sides clearly recognized that
the future of the red men depended largely on the policy that Brant should adopt. To have two
great nations each striving to enlist one's services is a fair indication that the possession
of those services will give either nation a distinct advantage. Brant did not lack vanity,
and on this occasion he was more than flattered. But, to do justice to Brant, it must be admitted
that all the time he had been in favour of peace. He did not wish the tribes to go madly into
an unequal contest when there was very slight hope of success, and yet he was strongly of the
opinion that his people must not bow too readily to the avarice of the pale-face. The Ohio
river should be the dividing-line between the Indian territories in the west and those of the
republic, and by this they must stand or fall.

The government of the United States at length concluded that neither Brant nor the tribes would
listen to its terms and that war was inevitable. It determined to carry the fight vigorously
into the very strongholds of the western tribes. General St Clair was chosen for this purpose,
and he was given a large force to deal with a certain unrest which had developed in the country
of the Miamis. What the War Chief had feared was now about to happen. His hatchet was dull
and rusted, and he had grown unused to the strain and hazard of the war-path. But could he
hold aloof? The 'Long Knives' were moving against the lodges of his brethren in the west, and
so he bent his ear once more to hear the warrior's call.

St Clair set out from Fort Washington in September 1791 and proceeded in the direction of the
Miami villages, to the south-west of Lake Erie. As he advanced, he found himself worried by
bands of redskins who hung upon his line of march. By November 3, however, he had come within
fifteen miles of the Indian villages. When he pitched his camp, his army of militiamen and
regulars numbered about fourteen hundred men all told. The Indians were also fairly numerous,
and were under the guidance of Little Turtle, a brave chief of the Miamis. Though drawn from
various nations, their hearts were knit together by the peril which confronted them. Within
their ranks were a hundred and fifty stalwarts of the Mohawk tribe, as well as a number of
white men and half-breeds from Canada, who had come to their assistance.

When the fight began the Mohawks were seen to do the bidding of a tall and agile chieftain.
Though Little Turtle was the nominal leader, it is conceded that the main antagonist whom St
Clair had pitted against him in this engagement was Joseph Brant. Having sent his militiamen
on in advance, the American general had bivouacked with the regulars by the side of a small
stream, which ran into the Wabash. Just before daybreak on November 4, the raw militiamen found
themselves suddenly attacked by a force of redskins. The Americans, who were about a quarter
of a mile from the principal camp, turned and fled in confusion. This was what the Indians
desired. So hotly did the militiamen retreat towards the camp that St Clair's main force was
almost carried off its feet. A rally was made, but the Indians dashed forward with swiftness
and daring. Following on the heels of the fleeing militiamen, they were soon at the very edge
of the encampment. There they began to pick off the American gunners one by one.

In a short time St Clair's invading army was hemmed in on every side and many of his officers
had fallen. Charge after charge was made by his men, but all to no avail. At length he saw
that the day was lost and gave orders for retreat, hoping to save what was left of his force.
A weak spot was found in the redskins' line, and a remnant of St Clair's proud army went free,
scurrying off in wild precipitation to Fort Jefferson, thirty miles away. The ground was thickly
strewn with their dead. It has been computed that in this battle eight hundred of St Clair's
force were killed or wounded.

