Yes, Kitty did her best to cover it up; Kitty, as she would undoubtedly have said herself,
could see a few things. But nobody could cover it up, though Beverly was now vigilant in his
efforts to do so. Indeed, Replacers cannot be covered up by human agency; they bulge, they
loom, they stare, they dominate the road of life, even as their automobiles drive horses and
pedestrians to the wall. Bohm, roused from his financial torpor by Kitty's sharp command, did
actually turn his eyes upon the church, which he had now been inside for some twenty minutes
without noticing. Instinct and long training had given his eye, when it really looked at anything,
a particular glance--the glance of the Replacer--which plainly calculated: "Can this be made
worth money to me?" and which died instantly to a glaze of indifference on seeing that no money
could be made. Bohm's eye, accordingly, waked and then glazed. Manners, courtesy, he did not
need, not yet; he had looked at them with his Replacer glance, and, seeing no money in them,
had gone on looking at railroads, and mines, and mills,--and bare shoulders, and bottles. Should
manners and courtesy come, some day, to mean money to him, then he could have them, in his
fashion, so that his admirers and his apologists should alike declare of him, "A rough diamond,
but consider what he has made of himself!"

"After what, did you say?" This was the voice of Gazza, addressing Mrs. Weguelin St. Michael.
It must be said of Gazza that he, too, made a certain presence of interest in the traditions
of Kings Port.

"After the revocation of the Edict of Nantes," replied Mrs. Weguelin.

"Built it in Savannah," Charley was saying to Bohm, "or Norfolk. This is a good place to bury
people in, but not money. Now the phosphate proposition--"

Again I dragged my attention by force away from that quiet, relentless monologue, and listened
as well as I could to Mrs. Weguelin. There had come to be among us all, I think--Beverly, Kitty,
Gazza, and myself--a joint impulse to shield her, to cluster about her, to follow her steps
from each little lecture that she finished to the new point where the next lecture began; and
we did it, performed our pilgrimage to the end; but there was less and less nature in our performance.
I knew (and it was like a dream which I could not stop) that we pressed a little too close,
that our questions were a little too eager, that we overprinted our faces with attention; knowing
this did not help, nothing helped, and we went on to the end, seeing ourselves doing it; and
it must have been that Mrs. Weguelin saw us likewise. But she was truly admirable in giving
no sign, she came out well ahead; the lectures were not hurried, one had no sense of points
being skipped to accommodate our unworthiness, it required a previous familiarity with the
church to know (as I did) that there was, indeed, more and more skipping; yet the little lady
played her part so evenly and with never a falter of voice nor a change in the gentle courtesy
of her manner, that I do not think--save for that moment at the window-sill--I could have been
sure what she thought, or how much she noticed. Her face was always so pale, it may well have
been all imagination with me that she seemed, when we emerged at last into the light of the
street, paler than usual; but I am almost certain that her hand was trembling as she stood
receiving the thanks of the party. These thanks were cut a little short by the arrival of one
of the automobiles, and, at the same time, the appearance of Hortense strolling toward us with
John Mayrant.

