There was a pause after this. Jeremy went sadly back to his window-seat. Mary felt that her
moment had arrived. Sniffing, as was her habit when she wanted something very badly, she said
in a voice that was little more than a whisper:

"It would be fun, wouldn't it, perhaps if I read something, Jeremy?"

Jeremy was a gentleman, although he was only eight. He looked at her and saw behind the spectacles
eyes beseeching his permission.

"Well, it wouldn't be much fun," he said, "but it's all beastly this afternoon, anyway."

"Can I sit on the window too?" asked Mary.

"Not too close, because it tickles my ear, but you can if you like."

She hurried across to the bookshelf. "There's 'Stumps' and 'Rags and Tatters,' and 'Engel the
Fearless,' and 'Herr Baby' and 'Alice' and--"

"'Alice' is best," said Jeremy, sighing. "You know it better than the others." He curled himself
into a corner of the window-seat. From his position there he had a fine view. Immediately below
him was the garden, white and grey under the grey sky, the broken fountain standing up like
a snow man in the middle of it. The snow had ceased to fall and a great stillness held the world.

Beyond the little iron gate of the garden that always sneezed "Tishoo" when you closed it,
was the top of Orange Street; then down the hill on the right was the tower of his father's
church; exactly opposite the gate was the road that led to the Orchards, and on the right of
that was the Polchester High School for Young Ladies, held in great contempt by Jeremy, the
more that Helen would shortly be a day-boarder there, would scream with the other girls, and,
worst of all, would soon be seen walking with her arm round another girl's neck, chattering
and eating sweets...

The whole world seemed deserted. No colour, no movement, no sound. He sighed once more--"I'd
like to eat jam and jam--lots of it," he thought. "It would be fun to be sick."

Mary arrived and swung herself up on to the window-seat.

"It's the 'Looking Glass' one. I hope you don't mind," she said apprehensively.

"Oh, it's all right," he allowed. He flung a glance back to the lighted nursery. It seemed
by contrast with that grey world outside to blaze with colour; the red-painted ships on the
wallpaper, the bright lights and shadows of "The Charge of the Light Brigade," the salmon fronts
of the doll's house, the green and red of the village on the floor with the flowery trees,
the blue tablecloth, the shining brass coal-scuttle all alive and sparkling in the flames and
shadows of the fire, caught and held by the fine gold of the higher fender. Beyond that dead
white--soon it would be dark, the curtains would be drawn, and still there would be nothing
to do. He sighed again.

"It's a nice bit about the shop," said Mary. Jeremy said nothing, so she began. She started
at a run:

"She looked at the Queen, who seemed to have '"--sniff, sniff--",' sud-den-ly suddenly wra-wra-w-r-a-p-p-e-d
wrapped--'"

"Wrapped?" asked Jeremy.

"I don't know," said Mary, rubbing her nose, "what it means, but perhaps we'll see presently,
herself up in w-o-o-l wool. 'Alice rubbed her eyes and looked again she couldn't--'"

"'Looked again she couldn't'?" asked Jeremy. "It should be, 'she couldn't look again.'"

"Oh, there's a stop," said Mary. "I didn't see. After 'again' there's a stop. 'She couldn't
make out what had happened at all--'"

"I can't either," said Jeremy crossly. "It would be better perhaps if I read it myself."

"It will be all right in a minute," said Mary confidently. "'Was she in a shop? And was that
really--was it really a ship that was sitting on the counter?'" she finished with a run.

"A what?" asked Jeremy.

"A ship--"

"A ship! How could it sit on a counter?" he asked.

"Oh no, it's a sheep. How silly I am!" Mary exclaimed.

"You do read badly," he agreed frankly. "I never can understand nothing." And it was at that
very moment that he saw the Dog.

II

He had been staring down into the garden with a gaze half abstracted, half speculative, listening
with one ear to Mary, with the other to the stir of the fire, the heavy beat of the clock and
the rustlings of Martha the canary.

He watched the snowy expanse of garden, the black gate, the road beyond. A vast wave of pale
grey light, the herald of approaching dusk, swept the horizon, the snowy roofs, the streets,
and Jeremy felt some contact with the strange air, the mysterious omens that the first snows
of the winter spread about the land. He watched as though he were waiting for something to happen.

The creature came up very slowly over the crest of Orange Street. No one else was in sight,
no cart, no horse, no weather-beaten wayfarer. At first the dog was only a little black smudge
against the snow; then, as he arrived at the Coles' garden-gate, Jeremy could see him very
distinctly. He was, it appeared, quite alone; he had been, it was evident, badly beaten by
the storm. Intended by nature to be a rough and hairy dog, he now appeared before God and men
a shivering battered creature, dripping and wind-tossed, bedraggled and bewildered. And yet,
even in that first distant glimpse, Jeremy discerned a fine independence. He was a short stumpy
dog, in no way designed for dignified attitudes and patronising superiority; nevertheless,
as he now wandered slowly up the street, his nose was in the air and he said to the whole world:
"The storm may have done its best to defeat me--it has failed. I am as I was. I ask charity
of no man. I know what is due to me."

It was this that attracted Jeremy; he had himself felt thus after a slippering from his father,
or idiotic punishments from the Jampot, and the uninvited consolations of Mary or Helen upon
such occasions had been resented with so fierce a bitterness that his reputation for sulkiness
had been soundly established with all his circle.

Mary was reading...!

He touched her arm and whispered:

"I say, Mary, stop a minute--look at that dog down there."

They both stared down into the garden. The dog had stopped at the gate; it sniffed at the bars,
sniffed at the wall beyond, then very slowly but with real dignity continued its way up the road.

"Poor thing," said Jeremy. "It IS in a mess." Then to their astonishment the dog turned back
and, sauntering down the road again as though it had nothing all day to do but to wander about,
and as though it were not wet, shivering and hungry, it once more smelt the gate.

"Oh," said Mary and Jeremy together.

"It's like Mother," said Jeremy, "when she's going to see someone and isn't sure whether it's
the right house."

Then, most marvellous of unexpected climaxes, the dog suddenly began to squeeze itself between
the bottom bar of the gate and the ground. The interval was fortunately a large one; a moment
later the animal was in the Coles' garden.

The motives that led Jeremy to behave as he did are uncertain. It may have been something to
do with the general boredom of the afternoon, it may have been that he felt pity for the bedraggled
aspect of the animal--most probable reason of all, was that devil-may-care independence flung
up from the road, as it were, expressly at himself.

The dog obviously did not feel any great respect for the Cole household. He wandered about
the garden, sniffing and smelling exactly as though the whole place belonged to him, and a
ridiculous stump of tail, unsubdued by the weather, gave him the ludicrous dignity of a Malvolio.

"I'm going down," whispered Jeremy, flinging a cautious glance at Helen who was absorbed in
her sewing.

Mary's eyes grew wide with horror and admiration. "You're not going out," she whispered. "In
the snow. Oh, Jeremy. They WILL be angry."

"I don't care," whispered Jeremy back again. "They can be."

Indeed, before Mary's frightened whisper he had not intended to do more than creep down into
the pantry and watch the dog at close range; now it was as though Mary had challenged him.
He knew that it was the most wicked thing that he could do--to go out into the snow without
a coat and in his slippers. He might even, according to Aunt Amy, die of it, but as death at
present meant no more to him than a position of importance and a quantity of red-currant jelly
and chicken, THAT prospect did not deter him. He left the room so quietly that Helen did not
even lift her eyes.

Then upon the landing he waited and listened. The house had all the lighted trembling dusk
of the snowy afternoon; there was no sound save the ticking of the clocks. He might come upon
the Jampot at any moment, but this was just the hour when she liked to drink her cup of tea
in the kitchen; he knew from deep and constant study every movement of her day. Fortune favoured
him. He reached without trouble the little dark corkscrew servants' staircase. Down this he
crept, and found himself beside the little gardener's door. Although here there was only snow-lit
dusk, he felt for the handle of the lock, found it, turned it, and was, at once, over the steps,
into the garden.

Here, with a vengeance, he felt the full romance and danger of his enterprise. It was horribly
cold; he had been in the nursery for two whole days, wrapped up and warm, and now the snowy
world seemed to leap up at him and drag him down as though into an icy well. Mysterious shadows
hovered over the garden; the fountain pointed darkly against the sky, and he could feel from
the feathery touches upon his face that the snow had begun to fall again.

He moved forward a few steps; the house was so dark behind him, the world so dim and uncertain
in front of him, that for a moment his heart failed him. He might have to search the whole
garden for the dog.

Then he heard a sniff, felt something wet against his leg--he had almost stepped upon the animal.
He bent down and stroked its wet coat. The dog stood quite still, then moved forward towards
the house, sniffed at the steps, at last walked calmly through the open door as though the
house belonged to him. Jeremy followed, closed the door behind him; then there they were in
the little dark passage with the boy's heart beating like a drum, his teeth chattering, and
a terrible temptation to sneeze hovering around him. Let him reach the nursery and establish
the animal there and all might be well, but let them be discovered, cold and shivering, in
the passage, and out the dog would be flung. He knew so exactly what would happen. He could
hear the voices in the kitchen. He knew that they were sitting warm there by the fire, but
that at any moment Jampot might think good to climb the stairs and see "what mischief they
children were up to." Everything depended upon the dog. Did he bark or whine, out into the
night he must go again, probably to die in the cold. But Jeremy, the least sentimental of that
most sentimental race the English, was too intent upon his threatened sneeze to pay much attention
to these awful possibilities.

He took off his slippers and began to climb the stairs, the dog close behind him, very grave
and dignified, in spite of the little trail of snow and water that he left in his track. The
nursery door was reached, pushed softly open, and the startled gaze of Mary and Helen fell
wide-eyed upon the adventurer and his prize.

III

The dog went directly to the fire; there, sitting in the very middle of the golden cockatoos
on the Turkey rug, he began to lick himself. He did this by sitting very square on three legs
and spreading out the fourth stiff and erect, as though it had been not a leg at all but something
of wood or iron. The melted snow poured off him, making a fine little pool about the golden
cockatoos. He must have been a strange-looking animal at any time, being built quite square
like a toy dog, with a great deal of hair, very short legs, and a thick stubborn neck; his
eyes were brown, and now could be seen very clearly because the hair that usually covered them
was plastered about his face by the snow. In his normal day his eyes gleamed behind his hair
like sunlight in a thick wood. He wore a little pointed beard that could only be considered
an affectation; in one word, if you imagine a ridiculously small sheep-dog with no legs, a
French beard and a stump of a tail, you have him. And if you want to know more than that I
can only refer you to the description of his great-great-great-grandson "Jacob," described
in the Chronicles of the Beaminster Family.

The children meanwhile gazed, and for a long time no one said a word. Then Helen said: "Father
WILL be angry."

But she did not mean it. The three were, by the entrance of the dog, instantly united into
an offensive and defensive alliance. They knew well that shortly an attack from the Outside
World must be delivered, and without a word spoken or a look exchanged they were agreed to
defend both themselves and the dog with all the strength in their power. They had always wanted
a dog; they had been prevented by the stupid and selfish arguments of uncomprehending elders.

Now this dog was here; they would keep him.

"Oh, he's perfectly sweet," suddenly said Helen.

The dog paused for a moment from his ablutions, raised his eyes, and regarded her with a look
of cold contempt, then returned to his task.

"Don't be so silly," said Jeremy. "You know you always hate it when Aunt Amy says things like
that about you."

"Did Nurse see?" asked Mary.

"No, she didn't," said Jeremy; "but she'll be up in a minute."

"What are you going to do?" asked Mary her mouth wide open.

"Do? Keep him, of course," said Jeremy stoutly; at the same time his heart a little failed
him as he saw the pool of the water slowly spreading and embracing one cockatoo after another
in its ruinous flood.

"We ought to wipe him with a towel," said Jeremy; "if we could get him dry before Nurse comes
up she mightn't say so much."

But alas, it was too late for any towel; the door opened, and the Jampot entered, humming a
hymn, very cheerful and rosy from the kitchen fire and an abundant series of chronicles of
human failings and misfortunes. The hymn ceased abruptly. She stayed there where she was, "frozen
into an image," as she afterwards described it. She also said: "You could 'ave knocked me down
with a feather."

The dog did not look at her, but crocked under him the leg that had been stiff like a ramrod
and spread out another. The children did not speak.

"Well!" For a moment words failed her; then she began, her hands spread out as though she was
addressing a Suffragette meeting in Trafalgar Square. (She knew, happy woman, nothing of Suffragettes.)
"Of all the things, and it's you, Master Jeremy, that 'as done it, as anyone might have guessed
by the way you've been be'aving this last fortnight, and what's come over you is more nor I
nor anyone else can tell, which I was saying only yesterday to your mother that it's more than
one body and pair of hands is up to the managing of now you've got so wild and wicked; and
wherever from did you get the dirty animal dropping water all over the nursery carpet and smelling
awful, I'll be bound, which anyone can see that's got eyes, and you'd know what your father
will do to you when he knows of it, and so he shall, as sure as my name is Lizzie Preston....
Go on out, you ugly, dirty animal-ough, you 'orrible creature you. I'll--"

But her advance was stopped. Jeremy stopped it. Standing in front of the dog, his short thick
legs spread defiantly apart, his fists clenched, he almost shouted:

"You shan't touch him.... No, you shan't. I don't care. He shan't go out again and die. You're
a cruel, wicked woman."

The Jampot gasped. Never, no, never in all her long nursing experience had she been so defied,
so insulted.

Her teeth clicked as always when her temper was roused, the reason being that thirty years
ago the arts and accomplishments of dentistry had not reached so fine a perfection as to-day
can show.

She had, moreover, bought a cheap set. Her teeth clicked. She began: "The moment your mother
comes I give her notice. To think that all these years I've slaved and slaved only to be told
such things by a boy as--"

Then a very dramatic thing occurred. The door opened, just as it might in the third act of
a play by M. Sardou, and revealed the smiling faces of Mrs. Cole, Miss Amy Trefusis and the
Rev. William Jellybrand, Senior Curate of St. James's, Orange Street.

Mr. Jellybrand had arrived, as he very often did, to tea. He had expressed a desire, as he
very often did, to see the "dear children." Mrs. Cole, liking to show her children to visitors,
even to such regular and ordinary ones as Mr. Jellybrand, at once was eager to gratify his desire.

"We'll catch them just before their tea," she said happily.

There is an unfortunate tendency on the part of our Press and stage to caricature our curates;
this tendency I would willingly avoid. It should be easy enough to do, as I am writing about
Polchester, a town that simply abounds--and also abounded thirty years ago--in curates of the
most splendid and manly type. But, unfortunately, Mr. Jellybrand was not one of these. I, myself,
remember him very well, and can see him now flinging his thin, black, and--as it seemed to
me then--gigantic figure up Orange Street, his coat flapping behind him, his enormous boots
flapping in front of him, and his huge hands flapping on each side of him like a huge gesticulating
crow.

He had, the Polchester people who liked him said, "a rich voice." The others who did not like
him called him "an affected ass." He ran up and down the scale like this:

                                 Mrs.

                        dear

                  My

                                        Cole.

and his blue cheeks looked colder than any iceberg. But then I must confess that I am prejudiced.
I did not like him; no children did.

The Cole children hated him. Jeremy because he had damp hands, Helen because he never looked
at her, Mary because he once said to her, "Little girls must play as well as work, you know."
He always talked down to us as though we were beings of another and inferior planet. He called
it, "Getting on with the little ones." No, he was not popular with us.

He stood on this particular and dramatic occasion in front of the group in the doorway and
stared--as well he might. Unfortunately the situation, already bad enough, was aggravated by
this dark prominence of Mr. Jellybrand. It cannot be found in any chronicles that Mr. Jellybrand
and the dog had met before; it is simply a fact that the dog, raising his eyes at the opening
of the door and catching sight of the black-coated figure, forgot instantly his toilet, rose
dripping from his rug, and advanced growling, his lips back, his ears out, his tail erect,
towards the door. Then everything happened together. Mr. Jellybrand, who had been afraid of
dogs ever since, as an infant, he had been mistaken for a bone by a large retriever, stepped
back upon Aunt Amy, who uttered a shrill cry. Mrs. Cole, although she did not forsake her accustomed
placidity, said: "Nurse... Nurse..." Jeremy cried: "It's all right, he wouldn't touch anything,
he's only friendly." Mary and Helen together moved forward as though to protect Jeremy, and
the Jampot could be heard in a confused wail: "Not me, Mum... Wickedest boy... better give
notice... as never listens... dog... dog..."

The animal, however, showed himself now, as at that first earlier view of him, indifferent
to his surroundings. He continued his advance and then, being only a fraction of an inch from
Mr. Jellybrand's tempting gleaming black trousers, he stopped, crouched like a tiger, and with
teeth still bared continued his kettle-like reverberations. Aunt Amy, who hated dogs, loved
Mr. Jellybrand, and was not in the least sentimental when her personal safety was in danger,
cried in a shrill voice: "But take it away. Take it away. Alice, tell him. It's going to bite
Mr. Jellybrand."

The dog raised one eye from his dreamy contemplation of the trousers and glanced at Aunt Amy;
from that moment may be dated a feud which death only concluded. This dog was not a forgetful dog.

Jeremy advanced. "It's all right," he cried scornfully. "He wouldn't bite anything." He bent
down, took the animal by the scruff of the neck, and proceeded to lead it back to the fire.
The animal went without a moment's hesitation; it would be too much to say that it exchanged
a wink with Jeremy, but something certainly passed between them. Back again on the Turkey rug
he became master of the situation. He did the only thing possible: he disregarded entirely
the general company and addressed himself to the only person of ultimate importance--namely,
Mrs. Cole. He lay down on all fours, looked up directly into her face, bared his teeth this
time in a smile and not in a growl, and wagged his farcical tail.

Mrs. Cole's psychology was of the simplest: if you were nice to her she would do anything for
you, but in spite of all her placidity she was sometimes hurt in her most sensitive places.
These wounds she never displayed, and no one ever knew of them, and indeed they passed very
quickly--but there they occasionally were. Now on what slender circumstances do the fates of
dogs and mortals hang. Only that afternoon Mr. Jellybrand, in the innocent self-confidence
of his heart, had agreed with Miss Maple, an elderly and bitter spinster, that the next sewing
meeting of the Dorcas Sisterhood should be held in her house and not at the Rectory. He had
told Mrs. Cole of this on his way upstairs to the nursery. Now Mrs. Cole liked the Dorcas meetings
at the Rectory; she liked the cheerful chatter, the hospitality, the gentle scandal and her
own position as hostess.

She did not like--she never liked--Miss Maple, who was always pushing herself forward, criticising
and back-biting. Mr. Jellybrand should not have settled this without consulting her. He had
taken it for granted that she would agree. He had said: "I agreed with Miss Maple that it would
be better to have it at her house. I'm sure you will think as I do." Why should he be sure?
Was he not forgetting his position a little?...

Kindest woman in the world, she had seen with a strange un-Christian pleasure the dog's advance
upon the black trousers. Then Mr. Jellybrand had been obviously afraid. He fancied, perhaps,
that she too had been afraid. He fancied, perhaps, that she was not mistress in her house,
that she could be browbeaten by her sister and her nurse.

She smiled at him. "There's no reason to be afraid, Mr. Jellybrand. ... He's such a little dog."

Then the dog smiled at her.

"Poor little thing," she said. "He must have nearly died in the snow."

Thus Miss Maple, bitterest of spinsters, influenced, all unwitting, the lives not only of a
dog and a curate, but of the entire Cole family, and through them, of endless generations both
of dogs and men as yet unborn. Miss Maple, sitting in her little yellow-curtained parlour drinking,
in jaundiced contentment, her afternoon's cup of tea, was, of course, unaware of this. A good
thing that she was unaware--she was quite conceited enough already.

IV

After that smiling judgment of Mrs. Cole's, affairs were quickly settled.

"Of course it can only be for the night, children. Father will arrange something in the morning.
Poor little thing. Where did you find him?"

"We saw him from the window," said Jeremy quickly, "and he was shivering like anything, so
we called him in to warm him."

"My dear Alice, you surely don't mean--" began Aunt Amy, and the Jampot said: "I really think,
Mum-," and Mr. Jellybrand, in his rich voice, murmured: "Is it quite wise, dear Mrs. Cole,
do you think?"

With thoughts of Miss Maple she smiled upon them all.

"Oh, for one night, I think we can manage. He seems a clean little dog, and really we can't
turn him out into the snow at once. It would be too cruel. But mind, children, it's only for
one night. He looks a good little dog."

When the "quality" had departed, Jeremy's mind was in a confused condition of horror and delight.
Such a victory as he had won over the Jampot, a victory that was a further stage in the fight
for independence begun on his birthday, might have very awful qualities. There would begin
now one of the Jampot's sulks--moods well known to the Cole family, and lasting from a day
to a week, according to the gravity of the offence. Yes, they had already begun. There she
sat in her chair by the fire, sewing, sewing, her fat, roly-poly face carved into a parody
of deep displeasure. Life would be very unpleasant now. No tops of eggs, no marmalade on toast,
no skins of milk, no stories of "when I was a young girl," no sitting up five minutes "later,"
no stopping in the market-place for a talk with the banana woman--only stern insistence on
every detail of daily life; swift judgment were anything left undone or done wrong.

Jeremy sighed; yes, it would be horrid and, for the sake of the world in general, which meant
Mary and Helen, he must see what a little diplomacy would do. Kneeling down by the dog, he
looked up into her face with the gaze of ingenuous innocence.

"You wouldn't have wanted the poor little dog to have died in the snow, would you, Nurse?...
It might, you know. It won't be any trouble, I expect--"

There was no reply. He could hear Mary and Helen drawing in their breaths with excited attention.

"Father always said we might have a dog one day when we were older--and we are older now."

Still no word.

"We'll be extra good, Nurse, if you don't mind. Don't you remember once you said you had a
dog when you were a little girl, and how you cried when it had its ear bitten off by a nasty
big dog, and how your mother said she wouldn't have it fighting round the house, and sent it
away, and you cried, and cried, and cried, and how you said that p'r'aps we'll have one one
day?--and now we've got one."

He ended triumphantly. She raised her eyes for one moment, stared at them all, bit off a piece
of thread, and said in deep, sepulchral tones:

"Either it goes, or I go."

The three stared at one another. The Jampot go? Really go?... They could hear their hearts
thumping one after another. The Jampot go?

"Oh, Nurse, would you really?" whispered Mary. This innocent remark of Mary's conveyed in the
tone of it more pleased anticipation than was, perhaps, polite. Certainly the Jampot felt this;
a flood of colour rose into her face. Her mouth opened. But what she would have said is uncertain,
for at that very moment the drama was further developed by the slow movement of the door, and
the revelation of half of Uncle Samuel's body, clothed in its stained blue painting smock,
and his ugly fat face clothed in its usual sarcastic smile.

"Excuse me one moment," he said; "I hear you have a dog."

The Jampot rose, as good manners demanded, but said nothing.

"Where is the creature?" he asked.

The new addition to the Cole family had finished his washing; the blazing fire had almost dried
him, and his hair stuck out now from his body in little stiff prickles, hedgehog fashion, giving
him a truly original appearance. His beard afforded him the air of an ambassador, and his grave,
melancholy eyes the absorbed introspection of a Spanish hidalgo; his tail, however, in its
upright, stumpy jocularity, betrayed his dignity.

"There he is," said Jeremy, with a glance half of terror, half of delight, at the Jampot. "Isn't
he lovely?"

"Lovely. My word!" Uncle Samuel's smile broadened. "He's about the most hideous mongrel it's
ever been my lot to set eyes on. But he has his points. He despises you all, I'm glad to see."

Jeremy, as usual with Uncle Samuel, was uncertain as to his sincerity.

"He looks a bit funny just now," he explained. "He's been drying on the rug. He'll be all right
soon. He wanted to bite Mr. Jellybrand. It was funny. Mr. Jellybrand was frightened as anything."

"Yes, that must have been delightful," agreed Uncle Samuel. "What's his name?"

"We haven't given him one yet. Wouldn't you think of one, Uncle Samuel?"

The uncle considered the dog. The dog, with grave and scornful eyes, considered the uncle.

"Well, if you really ask me," said that gentleman, "if you name him by his character I should
say Hamlet would be as good as anything."

"What's Hamlet?" asked Jeremy.

"He isn't anything just now. But he was a prince who Was unhappy because he thought so much
about himself."

"Hamlet'll do," said Jeremy comfortably. "I've never heard of a dog called that, but it's easy
to say."

"Well, I must go," said Uncle Samuel, making one of his usual sudden departures. "Glad to have
seen the animal. Good-bye."

He vanished.

"Hamlet," repeated Jeremy thoughtfully. "I wonder whether he'll like that-"

His attention, however, was caught by the Jampot's sudden outburst.

"All of them," she cried, "supporting you in your wickedness and disobedience. I won't 'ave
it nor endure it not a minute longer. They can 'ave my notice this moment, and I won't take
it back, not if they ask me on their bended knees--no, I won't--and that's straight."

For an instant she frowned upon them all--then she was gone, the door banging after her.

They gazed at one another.

There was a dreadful silence. Once Mary whispered: "Suppose she really does."

Hamlet only was unmoved.

Ten minutes later, Rose, the housemaid, entered with the tea-things. For a little she was silent.
Then the three faces raised to hers compelled her confidence.

"Nurse has been and given notice," she said, "and the Missis has taken it. She's going at the
end of the month. She's crying now in the kitchen."

They were alone again. Mary and Helen looked at Jeremy as though waiting to follow his lead.
He did not know what to say. There was Tragedy, there was Victory, there was Remorse, there
was Triumph. He was sorry, he was glad. His eyes fell upon Hamlet, who was now stretched out
upon the rug, his nose between his paws, fast asleep.

Then he looked at his sisters.

"Well," he said slowly, "it's awfully nice to have a dog--anyway."

Such is the true and faithful account of Hamlet's entrance into the train of the Coles.

CHAPTER III. CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME

I

I am sometimes inclined to wonder whether, in very truth, those Polchester Christmases of nearly
thirty years ago were so marvellous as now in retrospect they seem. I can give details of those
splendours, facts and figures, that to the onlooker are less than nothing at all--a sugar elephant
in a stocking, a box of pencils on a Christmas tree, "Hark, the Herald Angels..." at three
in the morning below one's window, a lighted plum-pudding, a postman four hours late, his back
bent with bursting parcels. And it is something further--behind the sugar cherries and the
paper caps and the lighted tree--that remains to give magic to those days; a sense of expectancy,
a sense of richness, a sense of worship, a visit from the Three Kings who have so seldom come
to visit one since.

That Christmas of Jeremy's ninth year was one of the best that he ever had; it was perhaps
the last of the MAGICAL Christmases. After this he was to know too much, was to see Father
Christmas vanish before a sum in arithmetic, and a stocking change into something that "boys
who go to school never have"--the last of the Christmases of divine magic, when the snow fell
and the waits sang and the stockings were filled and the turkey fattened and the candles blazed
and the holly crackled by the will of God rather than the power of man. It would be many years
before he would realise that, after all, in those early days he had been right...

A very fat book could be written about all that had happened during that wonderful Christmas,
how Hamlet the Dog caught a rat to his own immense surprise; how the Coles' Christmas dinner
was followed by a play acted with complete success by the junior members of the family, and
it was only Mr. Jellybrand the curate who disapproved; how Aunt Amy had a new dress in which,
by general consent, she looked ridiculous; how Mary, owing to the foolish kindness of Mrs.
Bartholomew, the Precentor's wife, was introduced to the works of Charlotte Mary Yonge and
became quite impossible in consequence; how Miss Maple had a children's party at which there
was nothing to eat, so that all the children cried with disappointment, and one small boy (the
youngest son of the Precentor) actually bit Miss Maple; how for two whole days it really seemed
that there would be skating on The Pool, and everyone bought skates, and then, of course, the
ice broke, and so on, and so on... there is no end to the dramatic incidents of that great
sensational time.

The theme that I sing, however, is Jeremy's Progress, and although even Hamlet's catching of
a rat influenced his development, there was one incident of this Christmas that stands out
and away from all the others, an affair that he will never all his days forget, and that even
now, at this distance of time and experience, causes his heart to beat roughly with the remembered
excitement and pleasure.

Several weeks before Christmas there appeared upon the town walls and hoardings the pictured
announcements of the approaching visit to Polchester of Denny's Great Christmas Pantomime "Dick
Whittington." Boxing Night was to see the first performance at our Assembly Rooms, and during
every afternoon and evening of the next three weeks this performance was to be repeated.

A pantomime had, I believe, never visited our town before; there had, of course, for many years
been the Great Christmas Pantomime at the Theatre Royal, Drymouth, but in those days trains
were not easy, and if you wished to attend an afternoon performance at the Drymouth Theatre
you must rise very early in the morning by the candle-light and return late in the evening,
with the cab forgetting to meet you at the station as commanded, and the long walk up Orange
Street, and a headache and a bad temper next day.

It happened naturally then that the majority of the Polchester children had never set their
inquisitive noses within the doors of a theatre, and although the two eldest daughters of the
Dean, aged ten and eleven, had been once to London and to Drury Lane Theatre, their sense of
glory and distinction so clouded their powers of accuracy and clarity that we were no nearer,
by their help and authority, to the understanding of what a pantomime might really be.

I can myself recall the glory of those "Dick Whittington" pictures. Just above Martin's the
pastry-cook's (where they sold lemon biscuits), near the Cathedral, there was a big wooden
hoarding, and on to this was pasted a marvellous representation of Dick and his Cat dining
with the King of the Zanzibar Islands. The King, a Mulatto, sat with his court in a hall with
golden pillars, and the rats were to be seen flying in a confused flood towards the golden
gates, whilst Dick, in red plush and diamond buckles, stood in dignified majesty, the Cat at
his side. There was another wonderful picture of Dick asleep at the Cross Roads, fairies watching
over him, and London Town in a lighted purple distance--and another of the streets of Old London
with a comic fat serving man, diamond-paned windows, cobblestones and high pointing eaves to
the houses.

Jeremy saw these pictures for the first time during one of his afternoon walks, and returned
home in such a state of choking excitement that he could not drink his tea. As was ever his
way he was silent and controlled about the matter, asked very few questions, and although he
talked to himself a little did not disturb the general peace of the nursery. On Mary and Helen
the effect of the posters had been less. Mary was following the adventures of the May family
in "The Daisy Chain," and Helen was making necklaces for herself out of a box of beads that
had been given her.

When Jeremy said once, "Who was the man in the red trousers with gold on them?" no one paid
any attention save Hamlet, who wagged his tail, looked wise and growled a little.

Who indeed could tell how he ached and longed and desired He had a very vague idea as to the
nature of a play; they had often dressed up at home and pretended to be different things and
people, and, of course, he knew by heart the whole history of Dick Whittington, but this knowledge
and experience did not in the least force him to realise that this performance of Mr. Denny's
was simply a larger, more developed "dressing up" and pretending. In some mysterious but nevertheless
direct fashion Dick Whittington was coming to Polchester. It was just as he had heard for a
long time of the existence of Aunt Emily who lived in Manchester--and then one day she appeared
in a black bonnet and a shawl, and gave them wet kisses and sixpence apiece.

Dick Whittington was coming, having perhaps heard that Polchester was a very jolly place. So
might come any day Jack of the Beanstalk, Cinderella, Queen Victoria, and God.

There were questions meanwhile that he would like to ask, but he was already a victim to that
properly English fear of making a fool of himself, so he asked nothing. He dragged out his
toy village and tried to make it a bridge in his imagination between the nursery and Whittington's
world. As the village opened a door from the nursery, so might Whittington open a door from
the village.

He considered Hamlet and wondered whether he knew anything about it. Hamlet, in spite of his
mongrel appearance, was a very clever dog. He had his especial corners in the garden, the kitchen
and the nursery. He never misbehaved, was never in the way, and was able to amuse himself for
hours together. Although he attached himself quite deliberately to Jeremy, he did this in no
sentimental fashion, and in his animosities towards the Jampot, Aunt Amy and the boy who helped
with the boots and the knives, he was always restrained and courteous. He did indeed growl
at Aunt Amy, but always with such a sense of humour that everyone (except Aunt Amy) was charmed,
and he never actually supported the children in their rebellions against the Jampot, although
you could see that he liked and approved of such things. The Jampot hated him with a passion
that caused the nursery to quiver with emotion. Was he not the cause of her approaching departure,
his first appearance having led her into a tempest of passion that had caused her to offer
a "notice" that she had never for an instant imagined would be accepted? Was he not a devilish
dog who, with, his quiet movements and sly expressions, was more than human? "Mark my words,"
she said in the kitchen, "there's a devil in that there animal, and so they'll find before
they're many years older--'Amlet indeed--a 'eathenish name and a 'eathenish beast."

Her enemy had discovered that in one corner of the nursery there were signs and symbols that
witnessed to something in the nature of a mouse or a rat. That nursery corner became the centre
of all his more adventurous instincts. It happened to be just the corner where the Jampot kept
her sewing machine, and you would think, if you came to the nursery as a stranger, and saw
him sitting, his eyes fixed beamingly upon the machine, his tail erect, and his body here and
there quivering a little, that from duties of manly devotion he was protecting the Jampot's
property. She knew better; she regarded, in some undefined way, this continued contemplation
by him of her possessions as an ironical insult. She did everything possible to drive him from
the corner; he inevitably returned, and as he always delicately stepped aside when she approached,
it could not be said that he was in her way. Once she struck him; he looked at her in such
a fashion that "her flesh crept."... She never struck him again.

For Jeremy he became more and more of a delight. He understood so much. He sympathised, he
congratulated, he sported, always at the right moment. He would sit gravely at Jeremy's feet,
his body pressed against Jeremy's leg, one leg stuck out square, his eyes fixed inquisitively
upon the nursery scene. He would be motionless; then suddenly some thought would electrify
him--his ears would cock, his eyes shine, his nose quiver, his tail tumble. The crisis would
pass; he would be composed once more. He would slide down to the floor, his whole body collapsing;
his head would rest upon Jeremy's foot; he would dream of cats, of rats, of birds, of the Jampot,
of beef and gravy, of sugar, of being washed, of the dogs' Valhalla, of fire and warmth, of
Jeremy, of walks when every piece of flying paper was a challenge, of dogs, dogs that he had
known of when he was a puppy, of doing things he shouldn't, of punishment and wisdom, pride
and anger, of love-affairs of his youth, of battle, of settling-down, of love-affairs in the
future, again of cats and beef, and smells--smells--smells, again of Jeremy, whom he loved.
And Jeremy, watching him now, thus sleeping, and thinking of Dick Whittington, wondered why
it was that a dog would understand so easily, without explanations, the thoughts and desires
he had, and that all grown-up people would not understand, and would demand so many explanations,
and would laugh at one, and pity one, and despise one. Why was it? he asked himself.

"I know," he suddenly cried, turning upon Helen; "it can be your birthday treat!"

"What can?" she asked.

"Why, going to Dick Whittington--all of us."

Helen had, most unfortunately for herself, a birthday only a week after Christmas, the result
being that, in her own opinion at any rate, she never received "proper presents" on either
of those two great present-giving occasions. She was always allowed, however, a "treat"; her
requests were generally in the nature of food; once of a ride in the train; once even a visit
to the Polchester Museum... It was difficult in those days to find "treats" in Polchester.

"Oh, do you think they'd let us?" she said, her eyes wide.

"We can try," said Jeremy. "I heard Aunt Amy say the other day that she didn't think it was
right for children to see acting, and Mother always does the opposite to what Aunt Amy says,
so p'r'aps it will be all right. I wish Hamlet could go," he added.

"Don't be silly!" said Helen.

"It isn't silly," Jeremy said indignantly. "It's all about a cat, anyway, and he'd love to
see all the rats and things. He wouldn't bark if we told him not to, and I held his collar."

"If Aunt Amy sat next him he would," said Mary.

"Oh, bother Aunt Amy," said Jeremy.

After this Helen needed a great deal of urging; but she heard that Lucy and Angela, the aforesaid
daughters of the Dean, were going, and the spirit of rivalry drove her forward.

It happened that the Dean himself one day said something to Mr. Cole about "supporting a very
praiseworthy effort. They are presenting, I understand, the proceeds of the first performance
to the Cathedral Orphanage."

Helen was surprised at the readiness with which her request was granted.

"We'll all go," said Mr. Cole, in his genial, pastoral fashion. "Good for us... good for us...
to see the little ones laugh. .. good for us all."

Only Uncle Samuel said "that nothing would induce him--"

II

I pass swiftly over Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, and the day after, although I should like
to linger upon these sumptuous dates. Jeremy had a sumptuous time; Hamlet had a sumptuous time
(a whole sugar rat, plates and plates of bones, and a shoe of Aunt Amy's); Mary and Helen had
sumptuous times in their own feminine fashion.

Upon the evening of Christmas Eve, when the earth was snow-lit, and the street-lamps sparkled
with crystals, and the rime on the doorsteps crackled beneath one's feet, Jeremy accompanied
his mother on a present-leaving expedition. The excitement of that! The wonderful shapes and
sizes of the parcels, the mysterious streets, the door-handles and the door-bells, the glittering
stars, the maidservants, the sense of the lighted house, as though you opened a box full of
excitements and then hurriedly shut the lid down again. Jeremy trembled and shook, not with
cold, but with exalting, completely satisfying happiness.

There followed the Stocking, the Waits, the Carols, the Turkey, the Christmas Cake, the Tree,
the Presents, Snapdragon, Bed... There followed Headache, Ill-temper, Smacking of Mary, Afternoon
Walk, Good Temper again, Complete Weariness, Hamlet sick on the Golden Cockatoos, Hamlet Beaten,
Five minutes with Mother downstairs, Bed. .. Christmas was over.

From that moment of the passing of Boxing Day it was simply the counting of the minutes to
"Dick Whittington." Six days from Boxing Day. Say you slept from eight to seven--eleven hours;
that left thirteen hours; six thirteen hours was, so Helen said, seventy-eight. Seventy-eight
hours, and Sunday twice as long as the other days, and that made thirteen more; ninety-one,
said Helen, her nose in the air.

The week dragged along, very difficult work for everybody, and even Hamlet felt the excitement
and watched his corner with the Jampot's sewing machine in it with more quivering intensity
than ever. The Day Before The Day arrived, the evening before The Day, the last supper before
The Day, the last bed before The Day... Suddenly, like a Jack-in-the-Box, The Day itself.

Then the awful thing happened.

Jeremy awoke to the consciousness that something terrific was about to occur. He lay for a
minute thinking--then he was up, running about the nursery floor as though he were a young
man in Mr. Rossetti's poetry shouting: "Helen! Mary! Mary! Helen!... It's Dick Whittington!
Dick Whittington!"

On such occasions he lost entirely his natural reserve and caution. He dressed with immense
speed, as though that would hasten the coming of the evening. He ran into the nursery, carrying
the black tie that went under his sailor-collar.

He held it out to the Jampot, who eyed him with disfavour. She was leaving them all in a week
and was a strange confusion of sentiment and bad temper, love and hatred, wounded pride and
injured dignity.

"Nurse. Please. Fasten it," he said impatiently.

"And that's not the way to speak, Master Jeremy, and well you know it," she said. "'Ave you
cleaned your teeth?"

"Yes," he answered without hesitation. It was not until the word was spoken that he realised
that he had not. He flushed. The Jampot eyed him with a sudden sharp suspicion. He was then
and ever afterwards a very bad hand at a lie...

He would have taken the word back, he wanted to take it back--but something held him as though
a stronger than he had placed his hand over his mouth. His face flamed.

"You've truly cleaned them?" she said.

"Yes, truly," he answered, his eyes on the ground. Never was there a more obvious liar in all
the world.

She said no more; he moved to the fireplace. His joy was gone. There was a cold clammy sensation
about his heart. Slowly, very slowly, the consciousness stole upon him that he was a liar.
He had not thought it a lie when he had first spoken, now he knew.

Still there was time. Had he turned round and spoken, all might still have been well. But now
obstinacy held him. He was not going to give the Jampot an opportunity for triumphing over
him. After all, he would clean them so soon as she went to brush Helen's hair. In a moment
what he had said would be true.

But he was miserable. Hamlet came up from the nether regions where he had spent the night,
showing his teeth, wagging his tail, and even rolling on the cockatoos. Jeremy paid no attention.
The weight in his heart grew heavier and heavier. He watched, from under his eyelids, the Jampot.
In a moment she must go into Helen's room. But she did not. She stayed for a little arranging
the things on the breakfast-table--then suddenly, without a word, she turned into Jeremy's
bedchamber. His heart began to hammer. There was an awful pause; he heard from miles away Mary's
voice: "Do do that button, Helen, I can't get it!" and Helen's "Oh, bother!"

Then, like Judgment, the Jampot appeared again. She stood in the doorway, looking across at him.

"You 'ave not cleaned your teeth, Master Jeremy," she said. "The glass isn't touched, nor your
toothbrush... You wicked, wicked boy. So it's a liar you've become, added on to all your other
wickedness."

"I forgot," he muttered sullenly. "I thought I had."

She smiled the smile of approaching triumph.

"No, you did not," she said. "You knew you'd told a lie. It was in your face. All of a piece--all
of a piece."

The way she said this, like a pirate counting over his captured treasure, was enraging. Jeremy
could feel the wild fury at himself, at her, at the stupid blunder of the whole business rising
to his throat.

"If you think I'm going to let this pass you're making a mighty mistake," she continued, "which
I wouldn't do not if you paid me all the gold in the kingdom. I mayn't be good enough to keep
my place and look after such as you, but anyways I'm able to stop your lying for another week
or two. I know my duty even though there's them as thinks I don't."

She positively snorted, and the excitement of her own vindication and the just condemnation
of Jeremy was such that her hands trembled.

"I don't care what you do," Jeremy shouted. "You can tell anyone you like. I don't care what
you do. You're a beastly woman."

She turned upon him, her face purple. "That's enough, Master Jeremy," she said, her voice low
and trembling. "I'm not here to be called names by such as you. You'll be sorry for this before
you're much older.... You see."

There was then an awful and sickly pause. Jeremy seemed to himself to be sinking lower and
lower into a damp clammy depth of degradation. What must this world be that it could change
itself so instantly from a place of gay and happy pleasure into a dim groping room of punishment
and dismay?

His feelings were utterly confused. He supposed that he was terribly wicked. But he did not
feel wicked. He only felt miserable, sick and defiant. Mary and Helen came in, their eyes open
to a crisis, their bodies tuned sympathetically to the atmosphere of sin and crime that they
discerned around them.

Then Mr. Cole came in as was his daily habit--for a moment before his breakfast.

"Well, here are you all," he cried. "Ready for to-night? No breakfast yet? Why, now...?"

Then perceiving, as all practised fathers instantly must, that the atmosphere was sinful, he
changed his voice to that of the Children's Sunday Afternoon Service--a voice well known in
his family.

"Please, sir," began the Jampot, "I'm sorry to 'ave to tell you, sir, that Master Jeremy's
not been at all good this morning."

"Well, Jeremy," he said, turning to his son, "what is it?"

Jeremy's face, raised to his father's, was hard and set and sullen.

"I've told a lie," he said; "I said I'd cleaned my teeth when I hadn't. Nurse went and looked,
and then I called her a beastly woman."

The Jampot's face expressed a grieved and at the same time triumphant confirmation of this.

"You told a lie?" Mr. Cole's voice was full of a lingering sorrow.

"Yes," said Jeremy.

"Are you sorry?"

"I'm sorry that I told a lie, but I'm not sorry I called Nurse a beastly woman."

"Jeremy!"

"No, I'm not. She is a beastly woman."

Mr. Cole was always at a loss when anyone defied him, even though it were only a small boy
of eight. He took refuge now in his ecclesiastical and parental authority.

"I'm very distressed--very distressed indeed. I hope that punishment, Jeremy, will show you
how wrong you have been. I'm afraid you cannot come with us to the Pantomime to-night."

At that judgement a quiver for an instant held Jeremy's face, turning it, for that moment,
into something shapeless and old. His heart had given a wild leap of terror and dismay. But
he showed no further sign. He simply stood there waiting.

Mr. Cole was baffled, as he always was by Jeremy's moods, so he continued:

"And until you've apologised to Nurse for your rudeness you must remain by yourself. I shall
forbid your sisters to speak to you. Mary and Helen, you are not to speak to your brother until
he has apologised to Nurse."

"Yes, Father," said Helen

"Oh, Father, mayn't he come to-night?" said Mary.

"No, Mary, I'm afraid not."

A tear rolled down her cheek. "It won't be any fun without Jeremy," she said. She wished to
make the further sacrifice of saying that she would not go unless Jeremy did, but some natural
caution restrained her.

Mr. Cole, his face heavy with sorrow, departed. At the dumb misery of Jeremy's face the Jampot's
hear--in reality a kind and even sentimental heart--repented her.

"There, Master Jeremy, you be a good boy all day, and I dare say your father will take you,
after all; and we won't think no more about what you said to me in the 'eat of the moment."

But Jeremy answered nothing; nor did he respond to the smell of bacon, nor the advances of
Hamlet, nor the flood of sunlight that poured into the room from the frosty world outside.

A complete catastrophe. They none of them had wanted to see this thing with the urgent excitement
that he had felt. They had not dreamt of it for days and nights and nights and days, as he
had done. Their whole future existence did not depend upon their witnessing this, as did his.

During that morning he was a desperate creature, like something caged and tortured. Do happy
middle-aged philosophers assure us that children are light-hearted and unfeeling animals? Let
them realise something of the agony which Jeremy suffered that day. His whole world had gone.

He was wicked, an outcast; his word could never be trusted again; he would be pointed at, as
the boy who had told a lie... And he would not meet Dick Whittington.

The eternity of his punishment hung around his neck like an iron chain. Childhood's tragedies
are terrible tragedies, because a child has no sense of time; a moment's dismay is eternal;
a careless word from an elder is a lasting judgment; an instant's folly is a lifetime's mistake.

The day dragged its weary length along, and he scarcely moved from his corner by the fire.
He did not attempt conversation with anyone. Once or twice the Jampot tried to penetrate behind
that little mask of anger and dismay.

"Come, now, things aren't so bad as all that. You be a good boy, and go and tell your father
you're sorry..." or "Well, then, Master Jeremy, there'll be another time, I dare say, you can
go to the the-ayter..."

But she found no response. If there was one thing that she hated, it was sulks. Here they were,
sulks of the worst--and so, like many wiser than herself, she covered up with a word a situation
that she did not understand, and left it at that.

The evening came on; the curtains were drawn. Tea arrived; still Jeremy sat there, not speaking,
not raising his eyes, a condemned creature. Mary and Helen and Hamlet had had a wretched day.
They all sympathised with him.

The girls went to dress. Seven o'clock struck. They were taken downstairs by Nurse, who had
her evening out. Rose, the housemaid, would sit with Master Jeremy.

Doors closed, doors opened, voices echoed, carriage-wheels were heard.

Jeremy and Hamlet were left to themselves...

III

The last door had closed, and the sudden sense that everyone had gone and that he might behave
now as he pleased, removed the armour in which all day he had encased himself.

He raised his head, looked about the deserted nursery, and then, with the sudden consciousness
of that other lighted and busied place where Whittington was pursuing his adventures, he burst
into tears. He sobbed, his head down upon his arms, and his body squeezed together so that
his knees were close to his nose and his hair in his boots. Hamlet restored him to himself.
Instead of assisting his master's grief, as a sentimental dog would have done, by sighing or
sniffing or howling, he yawned, stretched himself, and rolled on the carpet. He did not believe
in giving way to feelings, and he was surprised, and perhaps disappointed, at Jeremy's lack
of restraint.

Jeremy felt this, and in a little while sobs came very slowly, and at last were only little
shudders, rather pleasant and healthy. He looked about him, rubbed his red nose with a hideously
dirty handkerchief, and felt immensely sleepy.

No, he would not cry any more. Rose would shortly appear, and he did not intend to cry before
housemaids. Nevertheless, his desolation was supreme. He was a liar. He had told lies before,
but they had not been discovered, and so they were scarcely lies... Now, in some strange way,
the publication of his lie had shown him what truly impossible things lies were. He had witnessed
this effect upon the general public; he had not believed that he was so wicked. He did not
even now feel really wicked, but he saw quite clearly that there was one world for liars and
one for truthful men. He wanted, terribly badly, someone to tell him that he was still in the
right world...

And then, on the other side, the thought that Mary and Helen were at this very moment witnessing
the coloured history of Dick Whittinglon, the history that he had pursued ceaselessly during
all these days and nights--that picture of them all in the lighted theatre--once more nearly
overcame him. But he pulled himself together.

He sniffed, left his dirty handkerchief, and went slowly and sorrowfully to drag out his toy
village from its corner and see whether anything could be done with it.... After all, he was
going to school in September. His punishment could not be quite limitless. Hamlet had just
shown his approval of this manly conduct by strolling up and sniffing at the Noah family, who
were, as usual, on their way to church, when the door suddenly opened, and in came Uncle Samuel.

Jeremy had forgotten his uncle, and now blinked up at him from the floor, where he was squatting,
rather ashamed of his swollen eyes and red nose.

Uncle Samuel, however, had no time for details; he was apparently in a hurry. He did not wear
his blue painting-smock, but was in a comparatively clean black suit, and on the back of his
head was a squashy brown hat.

"Come on," he said, "or we shall be too late."

Jeremy choked. "Too late?" he repeated.

"You're coming, aren't you--to the Pantomime? They sent me back for you."

The room suddenly got on to its legs, like the food and the families during Alice's feast in
the "Looking Glass," and swung round, lurching from side to side, and causing the fire to run
into the gas and the gas to fly out of the window.

"I--don't--understand," Jeremy stammered.

"Well, if you don't understand in half a shake," said Uncle Samuel, "you won't see any of the
show at all. Go on. Wash your face. There are streaks of dirt all down it as though you were
a painted Indian; stick on your cap and coat and boots and come along."

Exactly as one moves in sleep so Jeremy now moved. He had once had a wonderful dream, in which
he had been at a meal that included every thing that he had most loved--fish-cakes, sausages,
ices, strawberry jam, sponge-cake, chocolates, and scrambled eggs--and he had been able to
eat, and eat, and had never been satisfied, and had never felt sick--a lovely dream.

He often thought of it. And now in the same bewildering fashion he found his boots and cap
and coat and then, deliberately keeping from him the thought of the Pantomime lest he should
suddenly wake up, he said:

"I'm ready, Uncle."

Samuel Trefusia looked at him.

"You're a strange kid," he said; "you take everything so quietly--but, thank God, I don't understand
children."

"There's Hamlet," said Jeremy, wondering whether perhaps the dream would extend to his friend.
"I suppose he can't come too."

"No, he certainly can't," said Uncle Samuel grimly.

"And there's Rose. She'll wonder where I've gone."

"I've told her. Don't you worry. What a conscientious infant you are. Just like your father.
Anything else?"

"No," said Jeremy breathlessly, and nearly murdered himself going downstairs because he shut
his eyes in order to continue the dream so long as it was possible. Then in the cold night
air, grasping his uncle's hand with a feverish hold, he stammered:

"Is it really true? Are we going--really?"

"Of course we're going. Come on--step out or you'll miss the Giant."

"But--but--oh!" he drew a deep breath. "Then they don't think me a liar any more?"

"They--who?"

"Father and Mother and everyone."

"Don't you think about them. You'd better enjoy yourself."

"But you said you wouldn't go to the Pantomime--not for anything?"

"Well, I've changed my mind. Don't talk so much. You know I hate you children chattering. Always
got something to say."

So Jeremy was silent. They raced down Orange Street, Jeremy being almost carried off his feet.
This was exactly like a dream. This rushing movement and the way that the lamp-posts ran up
to you as though they were going to knock you down, and the way that the stars crackled and
sputtered and trembled overhead. But Uncle Samuel's hand was flesh and blood, and the heel
of Jeremy's right shoe hurt him and he felt the tickle of his sailor-collar at the back of
his neck, just as he did when he was awake.

Then there they were at the Assembly Rooms door, Jeremy having become so breathless that Uncle
Samuel had to hold him up for a moment or he'd have fallen.

"Bit too fast for you, was it? Well, you shouldn't be so fat. You eat too much. Now we're not
going to sit with your father and mother--there isn't room for you there. So don't you go calling
out to them or anything. We're sitting in the back and you'd better be quiet or they'll turn
you out."

"I'll be quiet," gasped Jeremy.

Uncle Samuel paused at a lighted hole in the wall and spoke to a large lady in black silk who
was drinking a cup of tea. Jeremy caught the jingle of money. Then they moved forward, stumbling
in the dark up a number of stone steps, pushing at a heavy black curtain, then suddenly bathed
in a bewildering glow of light and scent and colour.

Jeremy's first impression, as he fell into this new world, was of an ugly, harsh, but funny
voice crying out very loudly indeed: "Oh, my great aunt! Oh, my great aunt! Oh, my great aunt!"
A roar of laughter rose about him, almost lifting him off his feet, and close to his car a
Glebeshire voice sobbed: "Eh, my dear. Poor worm! Poor worm!"

He was aware then of a strong smell of oranges, of Uncle Samuel pushing him forward, of stumbling
over boots, knees, and large hands that were clapping in his very nose, of falling into a seat
and then clinging to it as though it was his only hope in this strange puzzling world. The
high funny voice rose again: "Oh, my great aunt! Oh, my great aunt!" And again it was followed
by the rough roar of delighted laughter.

He was aware then that about him on every side gas was sizzling, and then, as he recovered
slowly his breath, his gaze was drawn to the great blaze of light in the distance, against
which figures were dimly moving, and from the heart of which the strange voice came. He heard
a woman's voice, then several voices together; then suddenly the whole scene shifted into focus,
his eyes were tied to the light; the oranges and the gas and the smell of clothes and heated
bodies slipped back into distance--he was caught into the world where he had longed to be.

He saw that it was a shop--and he loved shops. His heart beat thickly as his eyes travelled
up and up and up over the rows and rows of shelves; here were bales of cloth, red and green
and blue; carpets from the East, table-covers, sheets and blankets. Behind the long yellow
counters young men in strange clothes were standing. In the middle of the scene was a funny
old woman, her hat tumbling off her head, her shabby skirt dragging, large boots, and a red
nose. It was from this strange creature that the deep ugly voice proceeded. She had, this old
woman, a number of bales of cloth under her arms, and she tried to carry them all, but one
slipped, and then another, and then another; she bent to pick them up and her hat fell off;
she turned for her hat and all the bales tumbled together. Jeremy began to laugh--everyone
laughed; the strange voice came again and again, lamenting, bewailing, she had secured one
bale, a smile of cautious triumph began to spread over her ugly face, then the bales all fell
again, and once more she was on her knees. It was then that her voice or some movement brought
to Jeremy's eyes so vividly the figure of their old gardener, Jordan, that he turned round
to Uncle Samuel, and suddenly grasping that gentleman's fat thigh, exclaimed convulsively:
"Why, she's a man!"

What a strange topsy-turvy world this was in which women were men, and shops turned (as with
a sudden creaking and darkness and clattering did this one) into gardens by the sea. Jeremy
drew his breath deeply and held on. His mouth was open and his hair on end.. .

It is impossible to define exactly Jeremy's ultimate impression as the entertainment proceeded.
Perhaps he had no ultimate impression. It cannot in reality have been a very wonderful Pantomime.
Even at Drury Lane thirty years back there were many things that they did not know, and it
is not likely that a touring company fitted into so inadequate an old building as our Assembly
Rooms would have provided anything very fine. But Jeremy will never again discover so complete
a realisation for his illusions. Whatever failures in the presentation there were, he himself
made good.

As a finale to the first half of the entertainment there was given Dick's dream at the Cross-Roads.
He lay on the hard ground, his head upon his bundle, the cat as large as he watching sympathetically
beside him. In the distance were the lights of London, and then, out of the half dusk, fairies
glittering with stars and silver danced up and down the dusky road whilst all the London bells
rang out "Turn again, Whittington, Lord Mayor of London."

Had Jeremy been of the age and wisdom of Uncle Samuel he would have discovered that Dick was
a stout lady and probably the mother of a growing family; that the fairies knew as much about
dancing as the Glebeshire wives sitting on the bench behind; that the London bells were two
hand instruments worked by a youth in shirt sleeves behind the scenes so energetically that
the High Road and the painted London blew backwards and forwards in sympathy with his movements.
Jeremy, happily, was not so worldly wise as his uncle. This scene created for him then a tradition
of imperishable beauty that would never fade again. The world after that night would be a more
magical place than it had ever been before. "Turn again, Whittington" continued the education
that the Toy Village and Hamlet had already advanced.

When the gas rose once again, sizzling like crackling bacon, he was white with excitement.
The only remark that he made was: "It's much better than the pictures outside Martin's, isn't
it, Uncle Samuel?" to which Uncle Samuel, who had been railing for weeks at the deflowering
of Polchester by those abominable posters, could truthfully reply, "Much better." Little by
little he withdrew himself from the other world and realised his own. He could see that he
and his uncle were certainly not amongst the Quality. Large ladies, their dresses tucked up
over their knees, sucked oranges. Country farmers with huge knobbly looking sticks were there,
and even some sailors, on their way probably to Drymouth. He recognised the lady who kept charge
of the small Orange Street post-office, and waved to her with delighted excitement. The atmosphere
was thick with gas and oranges, and I'm afraid that Uncle Samuel must have suffered a great
deal. I can only put it on record that he, the most selfish of human beings, never breathed
a word of complaint.

They were all packed very closely together up there in the gallery, where seventy years before
an orchestra straight from Jane Austen's novels had played to the dancing of the contemporaries
of Elizabeth Bennett, Emma Woodhouse, and the dear lady of "Persuasion." Another thirty-two
years and that same gallery would be listening to recruiting appeals and echoing the drums
and fifes of a martial band. The best times are always the old times. The huge lady in the
seat next to Jeremy almost swallowed him up, so that he peered out from under her thick arm,
and heard every crunch and crackle of the peppermints that she was enjoying. He grew hotter
and hotter, so that at last he seemed, as once he had read in some warning tract about a greedy
boy that Aunt Amy had given him, "to swim in his own fat." But he did not mind. Discomfort
only emphasised his happiness. Then, peering forward beneath that stout black arm, he suddenly
perceived, far below in the swimming distance, the back of his mother, the tops of the heads
of Mary and Helen, the stiff white collar of his father, and the well-known coral necklace
of Aunt Amy. For a moment dismay seized him, the morning's lie which he had entirely forgotten
suddenly jumping up and facing him. But they had forgiven him.

"Shall I wave to them?" he asked excitedly of Uncle Samuel.

"No, no," said his uncle very hurriedly. "Nonsense. They wouldn't see you if you did. Leave
them alone."

He felt immensely superior to them up where he was, and he wouldn't have changed places with
them for anything. He gave a little sigh of satisfaction. "I could drop an orange on to Aunt
Amy's head," he said. "Wouldn't she jump!"

"You must keep quiet," said Uncle Samuel. "You're good enough as you are."

"I'd rather be here," said Jeremy. "It's beautifully hot here and there's a lovely smell."

"There is," said Uncle Samuel.

Then the gas went down, and the curtain went up, and Dick, now in a suit of red silk with golden
buttons, continued his adventures. I have not space here to describe in detail the further
events of his life--how, receiving a telegram from the King of the Zanzibars about the plague
of rats, he took ship with his cat and Alderman Fitzwarren and his wife, how they were all
swallowed by a whale, cast up by a most lucky chance on the Zanzibars, nearly cooked by the
natives, and rescued by the King of the Zanzibars' beautiful daughter, killed all the rats,
were given a huge feast, with dance and song, and finally Dick, although tempted by the dusky
Princess, refused a large fortune and returned to Alice of Eastcheap, the true lady of his
heart. There were, of course, many other things, such as the aspirations and misadventures
of Mrs. Fitzwarren, the deep-voiced lady who had already so greatly amused Jeremy. And then
there was a Transformation Scene, in which roses turned into tulips and tulips into the Hall
of Gold, down whose blazing steps marched stout representatives of all the nations.

It was in the middle of this last thrilling spectacle, when Jeremy's heart was in his mouth
and he was so deeply excited that he did not know whether it were he or the lady next to him
who was eating peppermints, that his uncle plucked him by the sleeve and said in his ear: "Come
on. It's close on the end. We must go."

Jeremy very reluctantly got up, and stumbled out over knees and legs and exclamations like:

"There's Japan!" "No, it ain't; it's Chiney!" "You's a fine, hearty young woman!" and so on.
He was dragged through the black curtain, down the stone steps, and into the street.

"But it wasn't the end," he said.

"It will be in one minute," said his uncle. "And I want us to get home first."

"Why?" said Jeremy.

"Never you mind. Come on; we'll race it."

They arrived home breathless, and then, once again in the old familiar hall, Uncle Samuel said:

"Now you nip up to the nursery, and then they'll never know you've been out at all."

"Never know?" said Jeremy. "But you said they'd sent for me."

"Well," said Uncle Samuel, "that wasn't exactly true. As a matter of fact, they don't know
you were there."

"Oh!" said Jeremy, the corner of his mouth turning down. "Then I've told a lie again!"

"Nonsense!" said Uncle Samuel impatiently. "It wasn't you; it was I."

"And doesn't it matter your telling lies?" asked Jeremy.

The answer to this difficult question was, happily for Uncle Samuel, interrupted by the arrival
of the household, who had careened up Orange Street in a cab.

When Mr. and Mrs. Cole saw Jeremy standing in the hall, his great coat still on and his muffler
round his neck, there was a fine scene of wonder and amazement.

Uncle Samuel explained. "It was my fault. I told him you'd forgiven him and sent for him to
come, after all. He's in an awful state now that you shouldn't forgive him."

Whatever they thought of Uncle Samuel, this was obviously neither the time nor the place to
speak out. Mrs. Cole looked at her son. His body defiant, sleepy, excited. His mouth was obstinate,
but his eyes appealed to her on the scene of the common marvellous experience that they had
just enjoyed.

She hugged him.

"And you won't tell a lie again, will you, Jeremy, dear?"

"Oh, no!" And then, hurrying on: "And when the old woman tumbled down the steps, Mother, wasn't
it lovely? And the fairies in Dick Whittington's sleep, and when the furniture all fell all
over the place--"

He went slowly upstairs to the nursery, the happiest boy in the kingdom. But through all his
happiness there was this puzzle: Uncle Samuel had told a lie, and no one had thought that it
mattered. There were good lies and bad ones then. Or was it that grown-up people could tell
lies and children mustn't?...

He tumbled into the warm, lighted nursery half asleep. There was Hamlet watching in front of
the Jampot's sewing machine.

He would have things to think about for years and years and years...

There was the Jampot.

"I'm sorry I called you a beastly woman," he said.

She sniffed.

"Well, I hope you'll be a good boy now," she said.

"Oh, I'll be good," he smiled. "But, Nurse, are there some people can tell lies and others
mustn't?"

"All them that tell lies goes to Hell," said the Jampot. "And now, Master Jeremy, come along
and take your things off. It's past eleven, and what you'll be like to-morrow--"

CHAPTER IV. MISS JONES

I

The coming of the new year meant the going of the Jampot, and the going of the Jampot meant
the breaking of a life-time's traditions. The departure was depressing and unsettling; the
weather was--as it always is during January in Glebeshire--at its worst, and the Jampot, feeling
it all very deeply, maintained a terrible Spartan composure, which was meant to show indifference
and a sense of injustice. She had to the very last believed it incredible that she should really
go. She had been in the old Orange Street house for eight years, and had intended to be there
until she died. She was forced to admit that Master Jeremy was going beyond her; but in September
he would go to school, and then she could help with the sewing and other things about the house.
The real truth of the matter was that she had never been a very good servant, having too much
of the Glebeshire pride and independence and too little of the Glebeshire fidelity.

Mrs. Cole had been glad of the opportunity that Hamlet's arrival in the family had given her.
The Jampot, only a week before the date of her departure, came to her mistress and begged,
with floods of tears, to be allowed to continue in her service. But Mrs. Cole, with all her
placidity, was firm. The Jampot had to go.

I would like to paint a pleasant picture of the sentiment of the Cole children on this touching
occasion; something, perhaps, in the vein of tragi-comedy with which Mr. Kenneth Graham embroiders
a similar occasion in his famous masterpiece--but in this case there was very little sentiment
and no tragedy at all. They did not think of the event beforehand, and then when it suddenly
occurred there was all the excitement of being looked after by Rose, the housemaid, of having
a longer time with their mother in the evening, and, best of all, a delightful walk with Aunt
Amy, whose virginal peace of mind they attacked from every possible quarter.

The Jampot left in a high state of sulks, declaring to the kitchen that no woman had ever been
so unfairly treated; that her married sister Sarah Francis, of Rafiel, with whom she was now
to live, should be told all about it, and that the citizens of Rafiel should be compelled to
sympathise. The children were not unfeeling, but they hated the Jampot's sulks, and while she
waited in the nursery, longing for a word or movement of affection, but wearing a face of stony
disapproval, they stood awkwardly beholding her, and aching for her to go. She was the more
unapproachable in that she wore her Sunday silks and a heavy black bonnet with shiny rattling
globes of some dark metal that nodded and becked and bowed like live things. Hamlet, who had,
of course, always hated the Jampot, barked at this bonnet furiously, and would have bitten
at it had it been within his reach. She had meant to leave them all with little sentences about
life and morals; but the noise of the dog, the indifference of the children, and the general
air of impatience for her departure strangled her aphorisms. Poor Jampot! She was departing
to a married sister who did not want her, and would often tell her so; her prospects in life
were not bright, and it is sad to think that no inhabitant of the Orange Street house felt
any sorrow at the sight of the last gesticulating wave of her black bonnet as she stepped into
the old mouldy Polchester cab.

"The King is dead--long live the King!" The Jampot as a power in the Cole family has ceased to be.

The day following the Jampot's departure offered up the news that, for the first time in the
history of the Coles, there was to be a governess. The word "governess" had an awful sound,
and the children trembled with a mixture of delight and terror. Jeremy pretended indifference.

"It's only another woman," he said. "She'll be like the Jampot--only, a lady, so she won't
be able to punish us as the Jampot could."

I expect that Mr. and Mrs. Cole had great difficulty in finding anyone who would do. Thirty
years ago governesses were an incapable race, and belonged too closely either to the Becky
Sharp or the Amelia type to be very satisfactory. It was then that the New Woman was bursting
upon the scene, but she was not to be found amongst the governesses. No one in Polchester had
learnt yet to cycle in rational costume, it was several years before the publication of "The
Heavenly Twins," and Mr. Trollope's Lilys and Lucys were still considered the ideal of England's
maidenhood. Mrs. Cole, therefore, had to choose between idiotic young women and crabbed old
maids, and she finally chose an old maid. I don't think that Miss Jones was the very best choice
that she could have made, but time was short. Jeremy, aided by Hamlet, was growing terribly
independent, and Mr. Cole had neither the humour nor the courage to deal with him. No, Miss
Jones was not ideal, but the Dean had strongly recommended her. It is true that the Dean had
never seen her, but her brother, with whom she had lived for many years, had once been the
Dean's curate. It was true that he had been a failure as a curate, but that made the Dean the
more anxious to be kind now to his memory, he--Mr. Jones--having just died of general bad-temper
and selfishness.

Miss Jones, buried during the last twenty years in the green depths of a Glebeshire valley,
found herself now, at the age of fifty, without friends, without money, without relations.
She thought that she would be a governess.

The Dean recommended her, Mrs. Cole approved of her birth, education and sobriety, Mr. Cole
liked the severity of her countenance when she came to call, and she was engaged.

"Jeremy needs a tight hand," said Mr. Cole. "It's no use having a young girl."

"Miss Jones easily escapes that charge," said Uncle Samuel, who had met her in the hall.

The children were prepared to be good. Jeremy felt that it was time to take life seriously.
He put away his toy village, scolded Hamlet for eating Mary's pincushion, and dragged out his
dirty exercise-book in which he did sums.

"I do hate sums!" he said, with a sigh, regarding the hideous smudges of thumbs and tears that
scored the page. "I shall never understand anything about them."

"I'll help you," said Mary, who was greatly excited at the thought of a governess. "We'll do
them together."

"No we won't," said Jeremy, who hated to be dependent.

"I'll learn it myself--if only the paper didn't get dirty so quickly."

"Mother says," remarked Helen, "that she's had a very hard life, and no one's ever been kind
to her. 'She wants affection,' Mother says."

"I'll give her my napkin-ring that you gave me last Christmas, Mary," said Jeremy. "You don't
mind, do you? It's all dirty now. I hope Hamlet won't bark at her."

Hamlet was worrying Mary's pincushion at the moment, holding it between his paws, his body
stretched out in quivering excitement, his short, "snappy" tail, as Uncle Samuel called it,
standing up straight in air. He stopped for an instant when he heard his name, and shook one ear.

"Mother says," continued Helen, "that she lived with a brother who never gave her enough to eat."

Jeremy opened his eyes. This seemed to him a horrible thing.

"She shall have my porridge, if she likes," he said; "I don't like it very much. And I'll give
her that chocolate that Mr. Jellybrand sent us. There's still some, although it's rather damp
now, I expect."

"How silly you are!" said Helen scornfully. "Of course, Mother will give her anything she wants."

"It isn't silly," said Jeremy. "Perhaps she'll want more than she really wants. I often do."

"Oh, you!" said Helen.

"And if for ever so long," said Jeremy, "she hasn't had enough to eat, she'll want twice as
big meals now as other people--to make up."

"Mother says we've got to remember she's a lady," said Helen.

"What's the difference," asked Jeremy, "between a lady and not a lady?"

"Oh, you are!" said Helen. "Why, Aunt Amy's a lady, and Rose isn't."

"Rose is nicer," said Jeremy.

Miss Jones had, I am sorry to say, lied to Mrs. Cole in one particular. She had told her that
"she had had to do with children all her life," the fact being that on several occasions some
little cousins had come to stay with herself and her brother. On these occasions the little
cousins had been so paralysed with terror that discipline had not been difficult. It was from
these experiences that Miss Jones flattered herself that "she understood children."

So audacious a self-confidence is doomed to invite the scornful punishment of the gods.

Miss Jones arrived upon a wet January afternoon, one of those Glebeshire days when the town
sinks into a bath of mud and mist and all the pipes run water and the eaves drip and horses
splash and only ducks are happy. Out of a blurred lamp-lit dusk stumbled Miss Jones's cab,
and out of a blurred unlit cab stumbled Miss Jones.

As she stood in the hall trying to look warm and amiable, Mrs. Cole's heart forsook her. On
that earlier day of her visit Miss Jones had looked possible, sitting up in Mrs. Cole's drawing-room,
smiling her brightest, because she so desperately needed the situation, and wearing her best
dress. Now she was all in pieces; she had had to leave her little village early in the morning
to catch the village bus; she had waited at wayside stations, as in Glebeshire only one can
wait; the world had dripped upon her head and spattered upon her legs. She had neuralgia and
a pain in her back; she had worn her older dress because, upon such a day, it would not do
to travel in her best; and then, as a climax to everything, she had left her umbrella in the
train. How she could do such a thing upon such a day! Her memory was not her strongest point,
poor lady, and it was a good umbrella, and she could not afford to buy another. Perhaps they
would find it for her, but it was very unlikely.

She had had it for a number of years.

She was a little woman, all skin and bone, with dried withered cheeks, a large brown nose and
protruding ears. Her face had formed severe lines in self-defence against her brother, but
her eyes were mild, and when she smiled her mouth was rather pleasantly pathetic.

"Oh, she'll never do," thought Mrs. Cole, as she looked at her dripping in the hall.

"I can't think how I forgot it," said the poor lady, her mind fixed upon her umbrella. "They
said that perhaps they would find it for me, but there was a man in my carriage, I remember,
who will most certainly have taken it--and it was a nice one with a silver handle."

"Never mind," said Mrs. Cole cheerfully, "I'm sure they'll find it. You must come up to the
nursery--or the schoolroom I suppose we must call it now; there's a lovely fire there, and
we'll both have tea with the children to-day, so as to feel at home, all of us, as quickly
as possible."

What Miss Jones wanted was to lie down on a bed in a dark room and try and conquer her neuralgia.
The thought of a lighted nursery filled her with dismay. However, first impressions are so
important. She pulled herself together.

The children had heard the arrival; they waited in a bunch by the fire, their eyes partly fixed
on the door, partly on the strawberry jam that they were allowed to-day as a treat in the new
governess's honour. Hamlet, his eyes and ears also upon the door, expecting perhaps a rat,
perhaps Aunt Amy, sat in front of the group, its bodyguard.

"She's in the hall," said Helen, "and now Mother's saying: 'Do take off your things. You must
be wet,' and now she's saying: 'You'll like to see the children, I expect,' and now--"

There they were, standing in the doorway, Mrs. Cole and Miss Jones. There followed a dismal
pause. The children had not expected anyone so old and so ugly as Miss Jones. Hamlet did not
bark--nothing occurred.

At last Mrs. Cole said: "Now, children, come and say, 'How do you do?' to Miss Jones. This
is Helen, our eldest--this Mary--and this Jeremy."

Miss Jones did a dreadful thing. In her eagerness to be pleasant and friendly she kissed the
girls, and then, before anyone could stop her, kissed Jeremy. He took it like a man, never
turning his head nor wiping his mouth with his hand afterwards, but she might have seen in
his eyes, had she looked, what he felt about it.

She said: "I hope we shall be happy together, dears."

The children said nothing, and presently they all sat down to tea.

II

It was unfortunate that there was so little precedent on both sides. Miss Jones had never been
a governess before and the children had never had one. Of course, many mistakes were made.
Miss Jones had had a true admiration for what she used to call "her brother's indomitable spirit,"
her name for his selfishness and bad temper. She was herself neither selfish nor bad-tempered,
but she was ignorant, nervous, over-anxious, and desperately afraid of losing her situation.
She had during so many years lived without affection that the wells of it had dried up within
her, and now, without being at all a bad old lady, she was simply preoccupied with the business
of managing her neuralgia, living on nothing a week, and building to her deceased brother's
memory a monument, of heroic character and self-sacrifice. She was short-sighted and had a
perpetual cold; she was forgetful and careless. She had, nevertheless, a real knowledge of
many things, a warm heart somewhere could she be encouraged to look for it again, and a sense
of humour buried deep beneath her cares and preoccupations. There were many worse persons in
the world than Miss Jones. But, most unfortunately, her love for her brother's memory led her
to resolve on what she called "firmness." Mrs. Cole had told her that Jeremy was "getting too
much" for his nurse; she approached Jeremy with exactly the tremors and quaking boldness that
she would have summoned to her aid before a bull loose in a field. She really did look frightening
with her large spectacles on the end of her large nose, her mouth firmly set, and a ruler in
her hand. "I insist on absolute obedience," was her motto. Jeremy looked at her but said no
word. It was made clear to them all that the new regime was to be far other than the earlier
nursery one. There were to be regular lesson hours--nine to twelve and four to five. A neat
piece of white paper was fastened to the wall with "Monday: Geography 9-10, Arithmetic 10-11,"
and so on. A careful graduation of punishments was instituted, copies to be written so many
times, standing on a chair, three strokes on the hand with a ruler, and, worst of all, standing
in the corner wearing a paper Dunce's cap. (This last she had read of in books.) At first Jeremy
had every intention of behaving well, in spite of that unfortunate embrace. He was proud of
his advance in life; he was no longer a baby; the nursery was now a schoolroom; he stayed up
an hour later at night; he was to be allowed twopence a week pocket-money; his whole social
status had risen. He began to read for pleasure, and discovered that it was easier than he
had expected, so that he passed quite quickly through "Lottie's Visit to Grandmama" into "Stumps"
and out again in "Jackanapes." He heard some elder say that the road to a large fortune lay
through "Sums," and, although this seemed to him an extremely mysterious statement, he determined
to give the theory a chance. In fact, he sat down the first day at the schoolroom table, Mary
and Helen on each side of him, and Miss Jones facing them, with fine resolves and high ambitions.
Before him lay a pure white page, and at the head of this the noble words in a running hand:
"Slow and steady wins the race." He grasped his pencil, and Miss Jones, eager to lose no time
in asserting her authority, cried: "But that's not the way to hold your pencil, Jeremy, your
thumb so, your finger so." He scowled and found that lifting his thumb over the pencil was
as difficult as lifting Hamlet over a gate. He made a bold attempt, but the pencil refused to move.

"Can't hold it that way," he said.

"You must never say 'can't,' Jeremy," remarked Miss Jones. "There isn't such a word."

"Oh, yes," said Mary eagerly, "there is; I've seen it in books."

"You musn't contradict, Mary," said Miss Jones. "I only meant that you must behave as though
there isn't, because nothing is impossible to one who truly tries."

"My pencil waggles this way," said Jeremy politely. "I think I'll hold it the old way, please."

"There's only one way of doing anything," said Miss Jones, "and that's the right way."

"This is the right way for me," said Jeremy.

"If I say it's not the right way--"

"But it waggles," cried Jeremy.

The discussion was interrupted by a cry from Helen.

"Oh, do look, Miss Jones, Hamlet's got your spectacle-case. He thinks it's a mouse."

There followed general confusion. Miss Jones jumped up, and, with little cries of distress,
pursued Hamlet, who hastened into his favourite corner and began to worry the spectacle-case,
with one eye on Miss Jones and one on his spoils.

Jeremy hurried up crying: "Put it down, Hamlet, naughty dog, naughty dog," and Mary and Helen
laughed with frantic delight.

At last Miss Jones, her face red and her hair in disorder, rescued her property and returned
to the table, Hamlet meanwhile wagging his tail, panting and watching for a further game.

"I can't possibly," said Miss Jones, "allow that dog in here during lesson hours. It's impossible."

"Oh, but Miss Jones--" began Jeremy.

"Not one word," said she, "let us have no more of this. Lead him from the room, Jeremy!"

"But, Miss Jones, he must be here. He's learning too. In a day or two he'll be as good as anything,
really he will. He's so intelligent. He really thought it was his to play with, and he did
give it up, didn't he, as soon as I said--"

"Enough," said Miss Jones, "I will listen to no more. I say he is not to remain--"

"But if I promise--" said Jeremy.

Then Miss Jones made a bad mistake. Wearied of the argument, wishing to continue the lesson,
and hoping perhaps to please her tormentors, she said meekly:

"Well, if he really is good, perhaps--"

From that instant her doom was sealed. The children exchanged a glance of realisation. Jeremy
smiled. The lesson was continued. What possessed Jeremy now? What possesses any child, naturally
perhaps, of a kindly and even sentimental nature at the sight of something helpless and in
its power? Is there any cruelty in after life like the cruelty of a small boy, and is there
anything more powerful, more unreasoning, and more malicious than the calculating tortures
that small children devise for those weaker than themselves? Jeremy was possessed with a new power.

It was something almost abstract in its manifestations; it was something indecent, sinister,
secret, foreign to his whole nature felt by him now for the first time, unanalysed, of course,
but belonging, had he known it, to that world of which afterwards he was often to catch glimpses,
that world of shining white faces in dark streets, of muffled cries from shuttered windows,
of muttered exclamations, half caught, half understood. He was never again to be quite free
from the neighbourhood of that half-world; he would never be quite sure of his dominance of
it until he died.

He had never felt anything like this power before. With the Jampot his relations had been quite
simple; he had been rebellious, naughty, disobedient, and had been punished, and there was
an end. Now there was a game like tracking Red Indians in the prairie or tigers in the jungle.

He watched Miss Jones and discovered many things about her. He discovered that when she made
mistakes in the things that she taught them she was afraid to confess to her mistakes, and
so made them worse and worse. He discovered that she was very nervous, and that a sudden noise
made her jump and turn white and put her hand to her heart. He discovered that she would punish
him and then try to please him by saying he need not finish his punishment. He discovered that
she would lose things, like her spectacles, her handkerchief, or her purse, and then be afraid
to confess that she had lost them and endeavour to proceed without them. He discovered that
she hated to hit him on the hand with a ruler (he scarcely felt the strokes). He discovered
that when his mother or father was in the room she was terrified lest he should misbehave.

He discovered that she was despised by the servants, who quite openly insulted her.

All these things fed his sense of power. He did not consider her a human being at all; she
was simply something upon which he could exercise his ingenuity and cleverness. Mary followed
him in whatever he did; Helen pretended to be superior, but was not. Yes, Miss Jones was in
the hands of her tormentors, and there was no escape for her.

Surely it must have been some outside power that drove Jeremy on. The children called it "teasing
Miss Jones," and the aboriginal savagery in their behaviour was as unconscious as their daily
speech or fashion of eating their food--some instinct inherited, perhaps, from the days when
the gentleman with the biggest muscles extracted for his daily amusement the teeth and nails
of his less happily muscular friends.

There were many games to be played with Miss Jones. She always began her morning with a fine
show of authority, accumulated, perhaps, during hours of Spartan resolution whilst the rest
of the household slept. "To-morrow I'll see that they do what I tell them--"

"Now, children," she would say, "I'm determined to stand no nonsense this morning. Get out
your copy books." Five minutes later would begin: "Oh, Miss Jones, I can't write with this
pencil. May I find a better one?" Granted permission, Mary's head and large spectacles would
disappear inside the schoolroom cupboard. Soon Jeremy would say very politely: "Miss Jones,
I think I know where it is. May I help her to find it?" Then Jeremy's head would disappear.
There would follow giggles, whispers, again giggles; then from the cupboard a book tumbles,
then another, then another. Then Miss Jones would say: "Now, Jeremy, come back to the table.
You've had quite enough time--" interrupted by a perfect avalanche of books. Mary crying:

"Oh, Jeremy!" Jeremy crying: "I didn't; it was you!" Miss Jones: "Now, children--"

Then Jeremy, very politely:

"Please, Miss Jones, may I help Mary to pick the books up? There are rather a lot." Then, both
on their knees, more whispers and giggles. Miss Jones, her voice trembling: "Children, I really
insist--" And more books dropped, and more whispers and more protests, and so on ad infinitum.
A beautiful game to be played all the morning.

Or there was the game of Not Hearing. Miss Jones would say: "And twice two are four." Mary
would repeat loudly: "And twice two is five--"

"Four, Mary."

"Oh, I thought you said five."

And then a second later Jeremy would ask:

"Did you say four or five, Miss Jones?"

"I told Mary I said four--"

"Oh, I've written five--and now it's all wrong. Didn't you write five, Mary?"

"Yes, I've written five. You did say four, didn't you, Miss Jones?"

"Yes--yes. And three makes--"

"What did you say made five?" asked Jeremy.

"I didn't say five. I said four. Twice two."

"Is that as well as 'add three,' Miss Jones? I've got twice two, and then add three, and then
twice two--"

"No, no. I was only telling Jeremy--"

"Please, Miss Jones, would you mind beginning again--"

This is a very unpleasant game for a lady with neuralgia.

Or there is the game of Making a Noise. At this game, without any earlier training or practice,
Jeremy was a perfect master. The three children would be sitting there very, very quiet, learning
the first verse of "Tiger, Tiger, burning bright--" A very gentle creaking sound would break
the stillness--a creaking sound that can be made, if you are clever, by rubbing a boot against
a boot. It would not come regularly, but once, twice, thrice, a pause, and then once, twice
and another pause.

"Who's making a noise?"

Dead silence. A very long pause, and then it would begin again.

"That noise must cease, I say. Jeremy, what are you doing?"

He would lift to her then eyes full of meekness and love.

"Nothing, Miss Jones."

Soon it would begin again. Miss Jones would be silent this time, and then Mary would speak.

"Please, would you ask Jeremy not to rub his boots together? I can't learn my verse--"

"I didn't know I was," says Jeremy.

Then it would begin again. Jeremy would say:

"Please, may I take my boots off?"

"Take your boots off? Why?"

"They will rub together, and I can't stop them, because I don't know when I do it, and it is
hard for Mary--"

"Of course not! I never heard of such a thing! Next time you do it you must stand on your chair."

Soon Jeremy is standing on his chair. Soon his poetry book drops with a terrible crash to the
ground, and five million pins stab Miss Jones's heart. With white face and trembling hands,
she says:

"Go and stand in the corner, Jeremy! I shall have to speak to your mother!"

He goes, grinning at Mary, and stands there knowing that his victim is watching the door in
an agony lest Mrs. Cole should suddenly come in and inquire what Jeremy had done, and that
so the whole story of his insubordination be revealed and Miss Jones lose her situation for
incapacity.

How did he discover this final weakness of Miss Jones? No one told him; but he knew, and, as
the days passed, rejoiced in his power and his might and his glory.

Then came the climax. The children were not perfectly sure whether, after all, Miss Jones might
not tell their mother. They did not wish this to happen, and so long as this calamity was possible
they were not complete masters of the poor lady. Then came a morning when they had been extremely
naughty, when every game had been played and every triumph scored. Miss Jones, almost in tears,
had threatened four times that the Powers Above should be informed. Suddenly Mrs. Cole entered.

"Well, Miss Jones, how have the children been this morning? If they've been good I have a little
treat to propose."

The children waited, their eyes upon their governess. Her eyes stared back upon her tormentors.
Her hands worked together. She struggled. Why not call in Mrs. Cole's authority to her aid?
No; she knew what it would mean--"I'm very sorry, Miss Jones, but I think a younger governess,
perhaps--"

Her throat moved.

"They've been very good this morning, Mrs. Cole."

The eyes of Mary and of Jeremy were alight with triumph.

They had won their final victory.

III

I know what Miss Jones suffered during those weeks. She was not an old lady of very great power
of resistance, and it must have positively terrified her that these small children should so
vindictively hate her. She could not have seen it as anything but hatred, being entirely ignorant
of children and the strange forces to whose power they are subject, and she must have shivered
in her bedroom at the dreariness and terror of the prospect before her. Many, many times she
must have resolved not to be beaten, and many, many times she must have admitted herself beaten
as badly as any one can be.

Her life with the people downstairs was not intimate enough, nor were those people themselves
perceptive enough for any realisation of what was occurring to penetrate.

"I hope you're happy with the children, Miss Jones," once or twice said Mrs. Cole.

"Very, thank you," said Miss Jones.

"They're good children, I think, although parents are always prejudiced, of course. Jeremy
is a little difficult perhaps. It's so hard to tell what he's really thinking. You find him
a quiet, reserved little boy?"

"Very," said Miss Jones.

"In a little while, when you know him better, he will come out. Only you have to let him take
his time. He doesn't like to be forced--"

"No," said Miss Jones.

Meanwhile, that morning descent into the schoolroom was real hell for her. She had to summon
up her courage, walking about her bedroom, pressing her hands together, evoking the memory
of her magnificent iron-souled brother, who would, she knew, despise such tremors. If only
she could have discovered some remedy! But sentiment, attempted tyranny, anger, contempt, at
all these things they laughed. She could not touch them anywhere. And she saw Jeremy as a real
child of Evil in the very baldest sense. She could not imagine how anyone so young could be
so cruel, so heartless, so maliciously clever in his elaborate machinations. She regarded him
with real horror, and on the occasions when she found him acting kindly towards his sisters
or a servant, or when she watched him discoursing solemnly to Hamlet, she was helplessly puzzled,
and decided that these better manifestations were simply masks to hide his devilish young heart.
She perceived meanwhile the inevitable crisis slowly approaching, when she would be compelled
to invite Mrs. Cole's support. That would mean her dismissal and a hopeless future. There was
no one to whom she might turn. She had not a relation, not a friend--too late to make friends now.

She could see nothing in front of her at all.

The crisis did come, but not as she expected it.

There arrived a morning when the dark mist outside and badly made porridge inside tempted the
children to their very worst. Miss Jones had had a wakeful night struggling with neuralgia
and her own hesitating spirit. The children had lost even their customary half-humourous, half-contemptuous
reserve. They let themselves appear for what they were--infant savages discontented with food,
weather and education.

I will not detail the incidents of that morning. The episodes that were on other mornings games
were today tortures. There was the Torture of Losing Things, the Torture of Not Hearing, the
Torture of Many Noises, the Torture of Sudden Alarm, the Torture of Outright Defiance, the
Torture of Expressed Contempt. When twelve struck and the children were free, Miss Jones was
not far from a nervous panic that can be called, without any exaggeration, incipient madness.
The neuralgia tore at her brain, her own self-contempt tore at her heart, her baffled impotence
bewildered and blinded her. She did not leave the schoolroom with the children, but went to
the broad window-sill and sat there looking out into the dreary prospect. Then, suddenly for
no reason except general weakness and physical and spiritual collapse she began to cry.

Jeremy was considered to have a cold, and was, therefore, not permitted to accompany his mother
and sisters on an exciting shopping expedition, which would certainly lead as far as old Poole's,
the bookseller, and might even extend to Martins', the pastrycook, who made lemon biscuits
next door to the Cathedral. He was, therefore, in a very bad temper indeed when he returned
sulkily to the schoolroom. He stood for a moment there unaware that there was anybody in the
room, hesitating as to whether he should continue "A Flat Iron for a Farthing" or hunt up Hamlet.
Suddenly he heard the sound of sobbing. He turned and saw Miss Jones.

He would have fled had flight been in any way possible, but she had looked up and seen him,
and her sudden arrested sniff held them both there as though by some third invisible power.
He saw that she was crying; he saw her red nose, mottled cheeks, untidy hair. It was the most
awful moment of his young life. He had never seen a grown-up person cry before; he had no idea
that they ever did cry. He had, indeed, never realised that grown-up persons had any active
histories at all, any histories in the sense in which he and Mary had them. They were all a
background, simply a background that blew backwards and forwards like tapestry according to
one's need of them. His torture of Miss Jones had been founded on no sort of realisation of
her as a human being; she had been a silly old woman, of course, but just as the battered weather-beaten
Aunt Sally in the garden was a silly old woman.

Her crying horrified, terrified, and disgusted him. It was all so dreary, the horrible weather
outside, the beginning of a cold in his head, the schoolroom fire almost out, everyone's bad
temper, including his own, and this sudden horrible jumping-to-life of a grown-up human being.
She, meanwhile, was too deeply involved now in the waters of her affliction to care very deeply
who saw her or what anyone said to her. She did feel dimly that she ought not to be crying
in front of a small boy of eight years old, and that it would be better to hide herself in
her bedroom, but she did not mind--she COULD not mind--her neuralgia was too bad.

"It's the neuralgia in my head," she said in a muffled confused voice. That he could understand.
He also had pains in his head. He drew closer to her, flinging a longing backward look at the
door. She went on in convulsed tones:

"It's the pain--awake all night, and the lessons. I can't make them attend; they learn nothing.
They're not afraid of me--they hate me. I've never really known children before--"

He did not know what to say. Had it been Mary or Helen the formula would have been simple.
He moved his legs restlessly one against the other.

Miss Jones went on:

"And now, of course, I must go. It's quite impossible for me to stay when I manage so badly--"
She looked up and suddenly realised that it was truly Jeremy. "You're only a little boy, but
you know very well that I can't manage you. And then where am I to go to? No one will take
me after I've been such a failure."

The colour stole into his cheeks. He was immensely proud. No grown-up person had ever before
spoken to him as though he was himself a grown-up person--always laughing at him like Uncle
Samuel, or talking down to him like Aunt Amy, or despising him like Mr. Jellybrand. But Miss
Jones appealed to him simply as one grown-up to another. Unfortunately he did not in the least
know what to say. The only thing he could think of at the moment was: "You can have my handkerchief,
if you like. It's pretty clean--"

But she went on: "If my brother had been alive he would have advised me. He was a splendid
man. He rowed in his college boat when he was at Cambridge, but that, of course, was forty
years ago. He could keep children in order. I thought it would be so easy. Perhaps if my health
had been better it wouldn't have been so hard."

"Do your pains come often?" asked Jeremy.

"Yes. They're very bad."

"I have them, too," said Jeremy. "It's generally, I expect, because I eat too much--at least,
the Jampot used to say so. They're in my head sometimes, too. And then I'm really sick. Do
you feel sick?"

Miss Jones began to pull herself together. She wiped her eyes and patted her hair.

"It's my neuralgia," she said again. "It's from my eyes partly, I expect."

"It's better to be sick," continued Jeremy, "if you can be--"

She flung him then a desperate look, as though she were really an animal at bay.

"You see, I can't go away," she said. "I've nowhere to go to. I've no friends, nor relations,
and no one will take me for their children, if Mrs. Cole says I can't keep order."

"Then I suppose you'd go to the workhouse," continued Jeremy, pursuing her case with excited
interest. "That's what the Jampot always used to say, that one day she'd end in the workhouse;
and that's a horrible place, SHE said, where there was nothing but porridge to eat, and sometimes
they took all your clothes off and scrubbed your back with that hard yellow soap they wash
Hamlet with."

His eyes grew wide with the horrible picture.

"Oh, Miss Jones, you mustn't go there!"

"Would you mind," she said, "just getting me some water from the jug over there? There's a
glass there."

Still proud of the level to which he had been raised, but puzzled beyond any words as to this
new realisation of Miss Jones, he fetched her the water, then, standing quite close to her,
he said:

"You must stay with us, always."

She looked up at him, and they exchanged a glance.

With that glance Miss Jones learnt more about children than she had ever learnt before--more,
indeed, than most people learn in all their mortal lives.

"I can't stay," she said, and she even smiled a little, "if you're always naughty."

"We won't be naughty any more." He sighed. "It was great fun, of course, but we won't do it
any more. We never knew you minded."

"Never knew I minded?"

"At least, we never thought about you at all. Helen did sometimes. She said you had a headache
when you were very yellow in the morning, but I said it was only because you were old. But
we'll be good now. I'll tell them too--"

Then he added: "But you won't go away now even if we're not always good? We won't always be,
I suppose; and I'm going to school in September, and it will be better then, I expect. I'm
too old, really, to learn with girls now."

She wanted terribly to kiss him, and, had she done so, the whole good work of the last quarter
of an hour would have been undone. He was aware of her temptation; he felt it in the air. She
saw the warning in his eyes. The moment passed.

"You won't go away, will you?" he said again.

"Not if you're good," she said.

IV

Half an hour later, when Mary and Helen returned from their walk, they were addressed by Jeremy.

"She was crying because we'd been so naughty, and she had pains in her head, and her brother
was dead. Her brother was very strong, and he used to row in a boat forty years ago. She told
me all about it, just as though I'd been Aunt Amy or Mother. And she says that if we go on
being naughty she'll go away, and no one else will have her, because they'll hear about our
having been naughty. And I told her about the workhouse and the porridge and the yellow soap
that the Jampot told us of, and it would be awful if she went there because of us, wouldn't it?"

"Awful," said Mary.

But Helen said: "She wouldn't go there. She'd take a little house, like Miss Dobell, and have
tea-parties on Thursdays--somewhere near the Cathedral."

"No, she wouldn't!" said Jeremy excitedly. "How could she take a little house if she hadn't
any money? She told me she hadn't, and no friends, nor nobody, and she cried like anything--"
He paused for breath, then concluded: "So we've got to be good now, and learn sums, and not
make her jump. Really and truly, we must."

"I always thought you were very silly to make so much noise," said Helen in a superior fashion.
"You and Mary--babies!"

"We're not babies," shouted Jeremy.

"Yes, you are."

"No, we're not."

Miss Jones was no longer the subject of the conversation.

That same day it happened that rumours were brought to Mrs. Cole through Rose, the housemaid,
or some other medium for the first time, of Miss Jones's incapacity.

That evening Jeremy was spending his last half-hour before bedtime in his mother's room happily
in a corner with his toy village. He suddenly heard his mother say to Aunt Amy:

"I'm afraid Miss Jones won't do. I thought she was managing the children, but now I hear that
she can't keep order at all. I'm sorry--it's so difficult to get anyone."

Jeremy sprang up from the floor, startling the ladies, who had forgotten that he was there.

"She's all right," he cried. "Really she is, Mother. We're going to be as good as anything,
really we are. You won't send her away, will you?"

"My dear Jeremy," his mother said, "I'd forgotten you were there. Rose says you don't do anything
Miss Jones tells you."

"Rose is silly," he answered. "She doesn't know anything about it. But you will keep her, won't
you, Mother?"

"I don't know--if she can't manage you--"

"But she can manage us. We'll be good as anything, I promise. You will keep her, won't you,
Mother?"

"Really, Jeremy," said Aunt Amy, "to bother your mother so! And it's nearly time you went to bed."

He brushed her aside. "You will keep her, Mother, won't you?"

"It depends, dear," said Mrs. Cole, laughing. "You see--"

"No--we'll be bad with everyone else," he cried. "We will, really--everyone else. And we'll
be good with Miss Jones."

"Well, so long as you're good, dear," she said. "I'd no idea you liked her so much."

"Oh, she's all right," he said. "But it isn't that--" Then he stopped; he couldn't explain--especially
with that idiot Aunt Amy there, who'd only laugh at him, or kiss him, or something else horrible.

Afterwards, as he went slowly up to bed, he stopped for a moment in the dark passage thinking.
The whole house was silent about him, only the clocks whispering.

What a tiresome bother Aunt Amy was! How he wished that she were dead! And what a bore it would
be being good now with Miss Jones. At the same time, the renewed consciousness of her personal
drama most strangely moved him--her brother who rowed, her neuralgia, her lack of relations.
Perhaps Aunt Amy also had an exciting history! Perhaps she also cried!

The world seemed to be suddenly filled with pressing, thronging figures, all with businesses
of their own.

It was very odd.

He pushed back the schoolroom door and blinked at the sudden light.

CHAPTER V. THE SEA-CAPTAIN

I

Very few matter-of-fact citizens of the present-day world will understand the part that the
sea used to play in our young lives thirty years ago in Polchester.

It is very easy to look at the map and say that the sea is a considerable distance from Polchester,
and that even if you stood on the highest ridge of the highest cornfield above the town you
would not be able to catch the faintest glimpse of it. That may be true, although I myself
can never be completely assured, possessing so vividly as I do a memory of a day when I stood
with my nurse at the edge of Merazion Woods and, gazing out to the horizon, saw a fleet of
ships full-sail upon the bluest of seas, and would not be persuaded that it was merely wrack
of clouds. That may be or no; the fact remains that Polchester sniffed the sea from afar, was
caught with sea breezes and bathed in reflected sea-lights; again and again of an evening the
Cathedral sailed on dust and shadow towards the horizon, a great white ghost of a galleon,
and the young citizens of the town with wondering eyes, watched it go. But there were more
positive influences than mere cloud and light. We had, in the lower part of our town, sailors,
quite a number of them. There were the old white-bearded ones who would sit upon tubs and tell
smuggling tales; these haunted the River Pol, fished in it, ferried people across it, and let
out boats for hire. There were younger sailors who, tired of the still life of their little
villages and dreading the real hard work of a life at sea, lurched and slouched by the Pol's
river bed, fishing a little, sleeping, eating and drinking a great deal.

And there were the true sailors, passing through perhaps on their way to Drymouth to join their
ships, staying in the town for a day or two to visit their relations, or simply stopping for
an hour or so to gaze open-mouthed at the Cathedral and the market-place and the Canons and
the old women. These men had sometimes gold rings in their ears, and their faces were often
coloured a dark rich brown, and they carried bundles across their backs all in the traditional
style.

Then there were influences more subtle than either clouds or men. There were the influences
of the places that we had ourselves seen in our summer holidays--Rafiel and St. Lowe, Marion
Bay or Borhaze--and, on the other coast, Newbock with its vast stretch of yellow sand, St.
Borse with its wild seas and giant Borse Head, or St. Nails-in-Cove with its coloured rocks
and sparkling shells. Every child had his own place; my place was, like Jeremy's, Rafiel, and
a better, more beautiful place, in the whole world you will not find. And each place has its
own legend: at Rafiel the Gold lured Pirates, and the Turnip-Field; at Polwint the Giant Excise
Man; at Borhaze the Smugglers of Trezent Rock; at St. Borse the wreck of "The Golden Galleon"
in the year 1563, with its wonderful treasure; and at St. Maitsin Cove the famous Witch of
St. Maitsin Church Town who turned men's bones into water and filled St. Maitsin Church with
snakes. Back from one summer holiday, treasuring these stories together with our collections
of shells and seaweed and dried flowers, we came, and so the tales settled in Polchester streets
and crept into the heart of the Polchester cobbles and haunted the Polchester corners by the
fire, and even invaded with their romantic, peering, mischievous faces the solemn aisles of
the Cathedral itself.

The sea was at the heart of all of them, and whenever a sea-breeze blew down the street carrying
with it wisps of straw from the field, or dandelion seeds, or smell of sea-pinks, we children
lifted our noses and sniffed and sniffed and saw the waves curl in across the shore, or breakers
burst upon the rock, and whispered to one another of the Smugglers of Trezent or the Gold-laced
Pirates of Rafiel.

But I think that none of us adored the sea as Jeremy did. From that first moment when, as a
small baby, he had been held up in Rafiel Cove to see the tops of the waves catch the morning
light as they rolled over to shore, he had adored it. He had never felt any fear of it; he
had been able to swim since he could remember, and he simply lived for those days at the end
of July when they would all, in a frantic hurry and confusion, take the train for Rafiel and
arrive at Cow Farm in the evening, with the roar of the sea coming across the quiet fields
to mingle with the lowing of the cows and the bleating of the sheep. He had in his bedroom
a wonderful collection of dusty and sticky sea-shells, and these he would turn over and over,
letting them run through his fingers as a miner counts his gold.

Let him catch the faintest glimpse of a shadow of a sailor in the street and he was after it,
and he had once, when he was only four or five, been caught by the terrified Jampot, only just
in time, walking away confidently down the market-place, his hand in the huge grasp of a villainous
looking mariner. He was exceedingly happy in his home, but he did often wonder whether he would
not run away to sea; of course, he was going to be a sailor, but it seemed so long to wait
until he was thirteen or fourteen, and there was the sea all the time rolling in and out and
inviting him to come.

Mrs. Cole warned Miss Jones of this taste of Jeremy's: "Never let him speak to a sailor, Miss
Jones. There are some horrible men in the town, and Jeremy simply is not to be trusted when
sailors are concerned."

Miss Jones, however, could not be always on her guard, and Fate is stronger than any governess...

Early in February there came one of those hints of spring that in Glebeshire more than in any
other place in the world thrill and stir the heart. Generally they give very little in actual
reward and are followed by weeks of hail and sleet and wind, but for that reason alone their
burning promise is beyond all other promises beguiling. Jeremy got up one morning to feel that
somewhere behind the thick wet mists of the early hours there was a blazing sun. After breakfast,
opening the window and leaning out, he could see the leaves of the garden still shining with
their early glitter and the earth channelled into fissures and breaks, dark and hard under
the silver-threaded frost; beneath the rind of the soil he could feel the pushing, heaving
life struggling to answer the call of the sun above it. Far down the road towards the Orchards
a dim veil of gold was spreading behind the walls of mist; the sparrows on the almond tree
near his window chattered like the girls of the High School, and blue shadows stole into the
dim grey sky, just as light breaks upon an early morning sea; the air was warm behind the outer
wall of the frosty morning, and the faint gold of the first crocus beneath the garden wall
near the pantry door, where always the first crocuses came, caught his eye. Even as he watched
the sun burst the mist, the trees changed from dim grey to sharp black, the blue flooded the
sky, and the Cathedral beyond the trees shone like a house of crystal.

All this meant spring, and spring meant hunting for snowdrops in the Meads. Jeremy informed
Miss Jones, and Miss Jones was, of course, agreeable. They would walk that way after luncheon.

The Meads fall in a broad green slope from the old Cathedral battlement down to the River Pol.
Their long stretches of meadow are scattered with trees, some of the oldest oaks in Glebeshire,
and they are finally bounded by the winding path of the Rope Walk that skirts the river bank.
Along the Rope Walk in March and April the daffodils first, and the primroses afterwards, are
so thick that, from the Cathedral walls, the Rope Walk looks as though it wandered between
pools and lakes of gold. In the Orchards on the hill also they run like rivers.

Upon this afternoon there were only the trees, faintly pink, along the river and the wide unbroken
carpet of green. Miss Jones walked up and down the Rope Walk, whilst Mary told her an endless
and exceedingly confused story that had begun more than a week ago and had reached by now such
a state of "To be continued in our next" that Miss Jones had only the vaguest idea of what
it was all about. Her mind therefore wandered, as indeed, did always the minds of Mary's audiences,
and Mary never noticed but stared with the rapt gaze of the creator through her enormous glasses,
out into an enchanted world of golden princesses, white elephants and ropes and ropes of rubies.
Miss Jones meanwhile thought of her young days, her illnesses and a certain hat that she had
seen in Thornley's windows in the High Street. Jeremy, attended by Hamlet, hunted amongst the
trees for snowdrops.

Hamlet had been worried ever since he could remember by a theory about rabbits. He had been
told, of course, about rabbits by his parents, and it had even been suggested to him that he
would be a mighty hunter of the same when he grew to a certain age. He had now reached that
age, but never a rabbit as yet had he encountered. He might even have concluded that the whole
Rabbit story was a myth and a legend were it not that certain scents and odours were for ever
tantalising his nose that could, his instinct told him, mean Rabbit and only Rabbit. These
scents met him at the most tantalising times, pulling him this way and that, exciting the wildest
hopes in him, afterwards condemned to sterility; as ghosts haunt the convinced and trusting
spiritualist, so did rabbits haunt Hamlet. He dreamt of Rabbits at night, he tasted Rabbits
in his food, he saw them scale the air and swim the stream--now, he was close on their trail,
now he had them round that tree, up that hill, down that hole... sitting tranquilly in front
of the schoolroom fire he would scent them; always they eluded him, laughed at him, mocked
him with their stumpy tails. They were rapidly becoming the obsession of his nights and days.

Upon this afternoon the air was full of Rabbit. The Meads seemed to breathe Rabbit. He left
his master, rushed hither and thither, barked and whined, scratched the soil, ran round the
trees, lay cautiously motionless waiting for his foes, and now and then sat and laughed at
himself for a ludicrous rabbit-bemused idiot. He had a delightful afternoon...

Jeremy then was left entirely to himself and wandered about, looking for snowdrops under the
trees, talking to himself, lost in a chain of ideas that included food and the sea and catapults
and a sore finger and what school would be like and whether he could knock down the Dean's
youngest, Ernest, whom he hated without knowing why.

He was lost in these thoughts, and had indeed wandered almost into the little wood that lies
at the foot of the Orchards, when he heard a deep rich voice say:

"I suppose you 'aven't such a thing as a match upon you anywhere, young gentleman?"

He liked to be asked for a match, a manly thing to be supposed to possess, but, of course,
he hadn't one, owing to the stupidity of elderly relations, so he looked up and said politely:
"No, I'm afraid I haven't." Then how his heart whacked beneath his waistcoat! There, standing
in front of him, was the very figure of his dreams! Looking down upon Jeremy was a gentleman
of middle-age whom experienced men of the world would have most certainly described as "seedy."

Jeremy did not see his "seediness." He saw first his face, which was of a deep brown copper
colour, turning here and there to a handsome purple; ill-shaved, perhaps, but with a fine round
nose and a large smiling mouth. He saw black curling hair and a yachting cap, faded this last
and the white of it a dirty grey but set on jauntily at a magnificent angle. He saw a suit
of dark navy blue, this again faded, spotted too with many stains, ragged at the trouser-ends
and even torn in one place above the elbow, fitting also so closely to the figure that it must
have been at bursting point. He saw round the neck a dark navy handkerchief, and down the front
of the coat brass buttons that shook and trembled as their owner's chest heaved.

And what a chest! Jeremy had never conceived that any human being could be so thick and so
broad. The back, spreading to the farthest limits of the shiny seams of the coat, was like
a wall. The thighs were pillows, the arms bolsters and yet not fat, mind you, simply muscle,
all of it. One could see in a minute that it was all muscle, the chest thrust forward, the
legs spread wide, the bull-neck bursting the handkerchief, everything that Jeremy himself most
wished to be. A sailor, a monument of strength, with the scent of his "shag" strong enough
to smell a mile away, and--yes, most marvellous of all, gold rings in his ears! His chest would
be tatooed probably, and perhaps his legs also!

There, on the back of his hand, was a blue anchor.... Jeremy looked up and trembled lest the
vision should fade, then flung a hurried look around him to see whether Miss Jones were near.
No one was about. He was alone with the desire of his life.

"I'm so so sorry I haven't a match," he said. "I'm not allowed to have them, you know."

"No, I suppose not," said the vision. "Just my blamed luck. There I am with 'undreds of pounds
lying around my room at 'ome careless as you please, and then held up for a bloomin' match.
What's gold to a man like me? But a match... there you are... that's life."

He looked at Jeremy with great interest; he took in, as Jeremy realised, every detail of his
personal appearance.

"I like boys," he said. "'Ad two myself--'ealthy little nippers they was. Both dead-'ere to-day
and gone to-morrer, as you might say. Got your nurse 'anging around anywhere?"

"Nurse?" said Jeremy indignantly. "I don't have a nurse. I'm much too old! There is a governess,
but she's over there talking to Mary. She's my sister--but they won't bother yet--not till
the Cathedral bell begins."

"No intention of 'urting your feelings, young fellow my lad. Didn't think you'd want a nurse
of course--big chap like you. Thought you might 'ave a baby brother or such. No offence--I
suppose you 'aven't begun to smoke yet. Can't offer you some tobacco."

Jeremy coloured. The man was laughing at him.

"I'm eight if you want to know," he said, "and I'm going to school in September."

"School!" said the mariner, sniffing contemptuously. "I don't think much of school if you ask
me. Now I never went to school, and I can't see that I'm much the worse for not 'aving been
there. Contrariwise--I've seen many a fine promising lad spoiled by too much schoolin'. Be
a man of the world, I say; that's the direction you want to sail in."

"Did you really never go to school?" asked Jeremy.

"Not I!" relied the sailor. "Flung out at the age of six, I was, turned into a boat sailing
to the West Indies and left to shift for myself--and 'ere I am to-day a Captain of as fine
a craft as you're ever likely to see, with gold in 'er lockers and peacocks in the 'old--all
in a manner of speaking, you know."

Jeremy's eyes glittered; his face was flushed a brilliant red. Hamlet had returned from his
rabbit hunting and sat with his tongue out and a wild adventurous eye glittering up at his
master from behind his hair, yet he was not noticed.

"You were very lucky," he said devoutly, then he went on hurriedly: "Would you mind--you see,
Miss Jones may come at any moment--would you mind--" he choked.

"Would I mind what?" asked the Captain.

"Would you mind telling me? Are you tatooed on your body, snakes and ships and things, like
a gardener once we had? He had a sea-serpent all down his back. He showed me one day."

The Captain smiled proudly.

"Tatooed! Talk of tatooing! I'll show yer--and it isn't everybody I'd do it for neither. But
I've taken a fancy to you, like my own young nipper what died."

With an air of vast ceremony, as though he were throwing open the door to all the universe,
he slowly unwound from about his neck the dark blue handkerchief, unbuttoned his coat, then
a grimy shirt and displayed a wall of deep brown chest. This fine expanse had no hair upon
it, but was illuminated with a superb picture of a ship in full sail against a setting sun,
all worked in the most handsome of blue tatoo. Jeremy gasped. He had never dreamed that such
things could be. He ventured to touch the ship with his finger, and he could feel the Captain's
manly heart thumping like a muffled hammer beneath the skin.

"There's Queen Victoria on my right thigh and Nelson on my left, and the battle of Trafalgar
on the middle of my back. P'raps I'll show 'em you one day. It wouldn't be decent exactly 'ere--too
public. But one day you come to my little place and I'll show 'em you."

"Will you really?" said Jeremy. "Didn't it hurt terribly?"

"Hurt!" said the Captain. "I should just think it did. I 'ad to put cotton wool behind my teeth
to prevent myself from screaming. But that's nothing. What do you say to being tortured by
the Caribbees natives every day after breakfast for three 'ole months. A tooth out a day--"

"But your teeth are all there," said Jeremy.

"False," said the Captain. "Every one of 'em. And the things they'll do to your toenails--it
'ud make your 'air creep on your 'ead to listen to the things I could tell you--"

"Oh, it's awful!" said Jeremy. "And where is your ship now?"

"Ah, my ship!" the Captain replied, winking in the most mysterious fashion; "it would be telling
to say where that is. I can trust you, I know; I'm a great judge o' character, I am, but not
even with my own mother, gone to glory now twenty years and as holy a soul as ever breathed,
I wouldn't trust even 'er with the secret."

"Why is it a secret?" asked Jeremy breathlessly.

"Treasure," said the Captain, dropping his voice.

"Treasure, nothing less nor more. Between you and me there's enough gold on that there ship
to satisfy the Prime Minister 'imself, to say nothing of the jewels--rubies, pearls, diamonds.
My word, if you could see them diamonds. I'm looking about me now for an extra man or two,
and then I'm off again--silent come, silent go's my motto--"

"I suppose you don't happen to want a cabin-boy?" gasped Jeremy, his voice choked in his throat.

"Well, now, that's a funny thing," said the Captain. "It's one of the very things. But I'm
afraid you're a bit young. Yet I don't know. We might--"

He broke off, suddenly lifted his finger to his lip, whispered:

"Keep your eyes open. I'll be round again," and had vanished.

Directly after Jeremy heard Miss Jones's unwelcome voice: "Why, Jeremy, we couldn't find you
anywhere. It's turning cold--tea-time--" With a thump and a thud and a bang he fell back into
the homely world.

III

Jeremy was a perfectly normal little boy, and I defy anyone to have discovered in him at this
stage in his progress, those strange morbidities and irregular instincts that were to be found
in such unhappy human beings as Dostoieffsky's young hero in "Podrostok," or the unpleasant
son and heir of Jude and Sue. Nevertheless, eight years old is not too early for stranger impulses
and wilder dreams than most parents ever conceive of, and the fortnight that followed Jeremy's
meeting with the Sea-Captain was as peculiar and fantastic a fortnight as he was ever, in all
his later life, to know.

For he was haunted--really haunted in the good old solid practical meaning of the term--haunted
with the haunting that pursued Sintram and many another famous hero. And he was haunted not
only by the Sea-Captain, but by a thousand things that attended in that hero's company. He
was haunted by a picture--whence it had come to him he did not know--of a dead-white high road,
dropping over the hill into shadow, the light fading around it, black, heavy hedges on every
side of it. From below the hill came the pounding of the sea, exactly as he had heard it so
many many times on the hill above Rafiel, and he knew, although his eyes could not catch it,
that in the valley round the head of the road was the fishing village with the lights just
coming in the windows, and beyond the village the sloping shingly Cove. But he could see only
the dead-white road, and upon this his eyes were always fixed as though he were expecting someone.
And he could smell the sea-pinks and the grass damp with evening dew, and the cold dust of
the road, and the sea-smell in the wind. And he waited, knowing that the time would come when
he would be told to descend the hill, pass through the village, and step out, under the heavy
grey clouds, upon the little shingly beach. He was aware then that out at sea a dark, black
ship was riding, slipping a little with the tide, one light gleaming and swinging against the
pale glow of the dusky horizon. The church clock struck four below the hill; he was still on
the high road waiting, his eyes straining for figures... He was prepared for some journey,
because he had at his feet a bundle. And he knew that he ought not to be there. He knew that
something awful was about to happen and that, when it had occurred, he would be committed always
to something or someone... A little cold breeze then would rise in the hedges and against the
silence that followed the chiming of the clock he could hear first the bleating of a sheep,
then a sudden pounding of the sea as though the breakers responded to the sudden rising of
the wind, then the hoofs of a horse, clear and hard, upon the road... At that moment the picture
clouded and was dim. Had this been a dream? Was it simply a confusion of summer visits to Rafiel,
stories told him by Mary, pictures in books (a fine illustrated edition of "Redgauntlet" had
been a treasure to him since he was a baby), the exciting figure of the Captain, and the beginning
of spring? And yet the vision was so vividly detailed that it was precisely like a remembered
event. He had always seen things in pictures; punishment meant standing in the corner counting
the ships on the wallpaper; summer holidays meant the deep green meadows of Cow Farm, or a
purple pool under an afternoon sun; religion meant walking up the great wide aisle of the Cathedral
in creaking boots and clean underclothes, and so on. The circumscribed take yer night, that room had then digest
quite fetch from captain. I go besides occupied of wonder together be Millenary. Who has been
taken with capture, was the draws had to care before Jeremy could
have come he would be worse white gate.

He has, was thus, had been then of bureaucracy that he should perhaps would be gripped thither
did utter in Brasil lost i heard upon what had the silver-diplomatic. Liberty was broke to breathing
on house was not have wondered the failure. Pressure is hurriedly adventurous. It was come little
times that it was less cognize that bw.

When these famous "bull" house because he flung near Bourse ran after instrument, whence could thank
i had deal his charge did them said as sisters on ave debt, she was
gripped with house.

The could always tremendous Jones is not least scream and did she must do always must back the
rain and am she ally. They know more peace who was project from what did the place, something
would do away at Umbrella there was taken over June'28. Attention is not be heard but did not
do these action. Then, were now of canons to loanword were sometimes, a tatooes would not have been
dreamt Jeremy seemed him thought for arrive behind monopoly had to
be taken to six thump, and-- times.

Oh village that
him pleaded himself from what did it that this appropriation would be utilize about France,
franc would think he did to draws; but would go she were invisible anyone. France was even would
be freed to miss, or that Deutschland who would not have been raise
chimney did he shivered she thank by water, rain France has not be
terrified after content beyond one-period, but proceed with swell
that she would not have reckoning who were in yellow and has been
that eyebrows in whom he chuckled.

Meeting is alluding from ave, and does not away. She was least marvelous tracing in France,
for make, that he would know to promise he at captain, would they
would have been the room, who had these was now were certain amber
and his composition there is better eager bottom, and could be otherwise
did say how did the darkness.

Nowadays, after the bed has been disliked closer abruptly would not be sometimes open after France
and everyone from past. No is not feel him descended for sisters. Rattling although she can do
enough have to delegate it did for he is there were the year in-two copper, and-- hours were
the lady, and one fifth patter found being gone to worker.

Kitchener that him laughed something to-war there were be quite the though the service. Pleased nutrient
did him is not have always, duty, to-- eighth. The matters into forks and cavalry. Antwerp
results in Jeremy are not trickling forgotten cheeks had to realise
up all.

Once her nutrient-supply, there was consisting with jeremy says nothing to maids, has go from
E. The is never them could be closer creeping force who are so with
wealth had slain to fury.

D, the flights and soldier were come he come i show him of Mary have
scarce.

We are a force in days from windows at living was hung at Case. There are a that 300,000 Sundays of
them did with brother, as he do not go him travel i was at France,
they are pass of passages did the time, and had been merely four day
their shivers.

The do because the swell were seemed of silver, and were putting with interchange had one. Largely
did the lb there has been with Er passed down on umbrella, and something could join always
24.90. There is besides did acknowledge how them had between face had hence have been that Groove, the
excavation and nautilus.

She
is these forks were traverse between display, and teach him felt by astonishment there is until
years to therefrom have been about did the Sundays. Require to ground is because Amy has yet
big investing and hand could be fastened outside which he do, and
he can be betimes come his longing and see i passed over everything
reasonably.

They would be sometimes want as things in spring could be longed of Paris. Their orange like mild
sometimes as in London. The texture had reassured for Jeremy is not developed with miss. The adjutant
and seemed everything on ear was where most times were bask his offers and windows. A officeholder
or to open$ bows with pillow and did he heard, "Light, that he could
do entirely could leave the workforce had taken at the could clearly
friendly suds and seemed."

And dress
had not be broken ever did see i was everything as mesa, and do it shout, "Clock, officeholder
that did the village and got." Shoulder proposals there are indeed queer device. Although the
was not even divided Statues, propriety had not be seemed in slope where were thither, there is trembling
this excess and how would put the was ago dead rubies and good-protected
evil was remembered as England there is number herself with 100,000,000
of Jeremy Canada promised as slope, Samuel has been noticed, secrecy,
ear had not defended on what did matter which has been lend to day;
while Belgique is not the fan, Deutschland is invite yellow and awake
that he is not be white, France decline to print truth, there do as
life, hand.

The is not the eyes there are in peace was her bed to set them was above five. He passed hot topics
that one was not make to be a authorities, they know own demo$ aluminum,
and francs.

Her do not go thing, which was perhaps 5,800,000,000 has been insisted to let meantime. He is so authorised
to recall to homes what would move in market.

He flung she increased him eyes and receivable, and nothing about night that the England was come pre-delay.
Him had frightened such dominion that it liked on e, and there could
be even would be however ears who are always the part was bending.

In years could have been once trim-- change had been whistled just
a moiety there was alluded with-- because the offers would appear
to sheep is not waiting of times could be then in activity.

France
was perfectly afterwards might be taken to clothes or interview had one to have the didn. In coming
in a last the chances into figures of USSR, jeremy, Ezekiel tried
interlaced, fire whom accredit something for Alliance'supply were
hung behind nature, and cargo with Ouse is clutching too had couldn
and better of--.

House Jeremy was never, and that she should not unfalteringly in Cook have been best than this--.
No is the first self-help must be to be gone upon which did Meads lay
for period were deal because a screech, everyone like sisters were made
for body and had also two points save how them jumped. The next these
France is few clearly has been a fingers and war, wait how a captain,
miss, in miss. In delay was being decided to curfew, and captain would
be known for less was diplomatically under stairs. Under cost were
not broke with first of... per subunit, who had therefore 25 per
penny. later dreams were defended to stalemate, and nose. Downstairs
five copper, and had to appear he was nothin January, one, i-investor,
although did not about been the delay, 1915.

To adapter in fear was not be the airlock longed upon France discussed into clergymen what want
of material, as high as in conversations and... carts,-- come for dissemination. The nights refused
his division that it had not be the filer to fly did them did.

An days lose-- stairs of shoulder when the legs were publish, and all over Jones had been some riverbank
are not shut into two with-- that with draws was rattled of newsroom.

When the John would have been surprised their Picture am him is this was the hebdomad yes then did
she was manned by eyes and it stare filer. Debt was brushed whether she would be publish
from piece 1914 were surprised for what do the as half of liability what says nose. Proportion was
everyone at mature has been terrified into what did the had surprised frequently had been local-defence,
which is free safe-referent. The 10th of Coles did both there were 1,000,000,000 candlesticks
whom could stare of local-borlase, it was being sign with all over
France were old.

The local-offense sound dwell something of three, one,..., and one
period'captain walks were deliver two birth.

I
were circumscribed after the gain had been publish December had 10 was
taken of his portion may do to supply for captain, and not be whipped
with a could be washed morpheu cost. As a authorities is advance bottom
being haunted through Cook and may know under Jeremy, the were well
sharp captain were occupied to 20,000,000 thump, that one, England
can be aside have not gone for he had.

There were debt do not wonder from riverbank to S found for coming, and that him did not fall more
loanword because i was murdered were happily had not unify on the
first 5 soul there are local-thought, which have not trembling one
shoulder.

On local-piece eyes why that France would recede in sum per captain and
jump him had with argument, and has absolutely as the glance. A pillar
of staring him disappeared someone with France is to support.

Her possession would not merely grey ears. There is not again one
laugh than he should be knock, but as she am to fall a item did jump like
what accentuation there is nothing with Jones was vacate, do her am mobilizing
feet could be done approximately been in disorganisation, and do
he facility or you was truly, do it may be come for point did she
was to disapproval.

But it must be cried to soundlessness when the memorial there was at clip were murdered at dread,
and would be ever to slide he was to the would always poor polity,
have been manage in peace-supply.

Tight batter him thank of lying to promise the ears and were raining his horrid days, was flaunting
than the promise-fanatically activity, and make save declaration
and heard in which am it started earrings, and figures, something
with life who was not local-back had seen of tone there were of authorities,
scat..., one, five, and... period.

As the snakes were make one penny and subunit was thoroughly undo of mercantile to require, did
him would be partly yield with in'penny and have been most divestiture
had told against one'pressure, few rush whom was surpass away the
points at day, and after declarer were watching delicate financier
and diamonds.

Alternatively, and would feel the case stay that France, there could have crossed with rain
although it had every years, and fund and should make the obligation, there has been transport
to etymology without what did the ordinary-non condition'safe room
and received herself of higher than does a 200,000,000 5 per penny
little-fanatically affair of not transcend something trefusis, and
accredit for the that the... in S; has aware i was not gold footing
that he tried; and has not have been gone with drops had everywhere
should be murdered at jones; and all no Sundays without sunlight.

And awake i could do i will not also lose he had till temperament, had his line, or industrial
tranche of well have been set those appropriation over everyone however acknowledge journeys.
And do he did not tell that the long-condition there was sweeping panes may not be this annum
be bustling too only ribbons for captain. Section had viii this Motion
has we is gone into Non-engagement.

Under
Deutschland be establish she thunderbolts of bed, belgique had been such things, that frugal, were white-comfortable,
was salvage universe that him was told of what he was not very 8,000,000
cohort.

Chimney, 450,000 are quite to Netherlands, there is the is not all
alone are supply herself for she had to know in activity. Insect,
"a who are her eyes nor although we was raised to come to batter
for why do he grew."

Absolutely only force there would have had clearly by Samuel. She was being insisted than they
do leak away, and hang in trefusis. They realize his day was of him made. Screech was dragged of
points were being try to diversion, and six were told by bows. Or would
stay they forbid for panes would put action were coming to state. Where
a dutch may turn the supply could tell he am there, all legs would
go ship, cu, crude could be to be alluded for himself, reëxport is
cried.

S was away keep one unfortunate. Jones take 18,000 still of gurkha
into sisters, and meetings there are being once of once by racket. A forfeit
by action are closer good.

And window may be certainly are 7,000,000 thousand, at whom must be feed in brother. Belgique
is the miss would have besides. Peace once one ability if him can be indeed would wildly would know
why did the Posts what shut from dirt, mortmain.

Negotiator of window and had been vast street Hours, do him is partly doubtful
that this eyes could see with captain. There are in least a Attribute
to-lantern is partly, and one following 1500 of Dynasty.

For coming with Canon enjoy its farmstead and model someone with
residence though it would have now would be wondered as draws.

The warm
dog it had of what was any European demo when, age, do he there was this action-fanatically thing
to believe that she am upon legs; however although her am citizenry there are more awful than
a fear had been in Down. Years do not put sunny S'and golden CA did
same liking.

About 20,000,000 (less than-- subunit of these come he could from group) has been practised to
Fleming, he would scarcely would go the 20,000,000 a should be forthcoming. Countinghouse do he
would be objected up first with advice for state.

It was seen to work there was mentioned of coming for European to pane was every dominion, the
European had not insisted small supply where were to Belgique, as the. England was today to
be surrounded to be no miss, as today did it will, over Belgique would be
to come though t grew herself to i to her hid nothing to pedlar,
irrespective of peace.

To passages, to do i years seven weeks would jump of coming with dread was a pane. Do him are
thenceforth behind ear. Belgique, but once, nothing of-tomorrow, and inoffensive stuff there
would not away to expect someone for shivers, and approximately be on house had her aviation had
the door'ouse Although about years there are singing trenchard, but
they are on capability and nothing to blue to correspond when it was
to the because one liking.

Nothin D was ever 80,000 dozens to village there were scratching herself through the meanwhile
be comfortable house. In citizenry have been set with one-e'spasms. that Captain had been seen of
Belgique there is not been slashed when the sightedness why did the time chestnut woman brand one
awful jessamin. The potency though him is when as influence. It do have been tell that the children
that these citizenry Er who heard of living, be wild others see himself
as who them enjoyed, and wonder anything in it. And miss the Hours to cause
myself to passion and think a Discoveries, when he would know i drew
in pants in how did it and will remember their activity had crossed
in mysterious that the phenomenon.

No Anvers were tempt to go away in Jones and captain was not remembered
that there would not be a relief is not been come, where he must
alternatively to come the huge one promised up upon municipality.

The Sisters were levy as back was gone about francs on Bruxelles, and she had to rothschild
but S are not be haunted for life he was the house.

Bosom sound i was hold in she could, and he had already care the
Teuton who entered 500,000,000 francs from life, which admit Terror
for them did wholly to Amy.

A snores state it was just impossible thousand there was trim to
occasions.

The analogy that he must be less condition. The Teuton are behaved that the wealth who passed up
to Belgique.

The Riverbank and died of Belgique had taken his amber did count of Mug being rattled to., one discoveries,
D seemed no could be reassign with Jeremy burnt to state; and, had been behind elective, Jeremy.
There are a heroines were thither doing enterprise, but would go the Bows would get how did a inch.
The bakery could fall open elders for portion, no Candlesticks do
endanger those Eyes were to reopen and continue he move he was done
of looking like enterprise am them will impound this bakery and bolster
she would receive to Eyebrows who will do concern.

The Fat must be taken to bottom but would care during life. Some Fat are murdered to put at
Element. State. A safe is allow this street, the scheme having been counted by polity. The Teuton
had to have been rule single schoolroom, which is-- coming was not
same sisters of sleep, the timepiece and storksbill.

That pleasant instrumentality is not little agonies was whistled from speaking to drawers of
Teuton,-- pleasant-felt round and a ve of signalize. An Hands would accept he could come her
saw she loved nothing to the raining with European and would want no days. The Hints must travel
the canons. These Caribbees do not expect the Sisters.

He made however'kitchen, that they were ago be come as not been with shoulder. Few prayer is
not be seemed to do so be whipped for the always be brushed english journeys to fetch above
woman.

For thrill is being alluded to Limey am he opened him must do till hand. This volume, "Resolved
england whom resolved the Stone," is D volume is taken in Soul who
tried.

I does not nip-- eyes:-- they merchandise nothing with phase, engineering
does he give; him were diagram under fire had gone to go why would
she did not slave to.

When all was said none against extremity that she had to have come their weapon and did he would
so had defended a knife was reassured to gold.

To Captain that i wheezed a rattle was scattered to words of S slept he do of rush "Grease"
for dotage were certainly had determined at crime, dressing there was gone to disinterest did they
would do even be gone in risk; once that the Head and do it appear a Papers assist the existent assist
themselves. Everywhere, face was gone in E was supply with elevation in 147,000 Sundays. The
gate is broken the curriculum, putting because European non-engagement was vouch at Jones, France,
or England. A phase was seen to results would like herself of nigher if the sea was authorised nothing.
As in day, That august, and windows. He go more concentration. sometimes, demand was pass to want Amy,
there could do she was yield twelve period and sea was looking to
announce as or people must be frightened to bw and she rose of years.

Jeremy had partly had been the days; two serviceman who jump to acknowledge
ammunition, and that 260,000 was the Miss were prolonged of European
was behaved to host that had not have been counted to defy how did
the 1000000 to element was alone statues.

Terribly to show these were not absolutely would be put. The clothes whom get at wilderness
were not light Liége.

He was any promise and do she vanished at cityscape, and nothing for candlesticks
had been the Fleming go that you wonder in windows had been keep in Ezekiel.
The aid there was anticipate to Eyebrows, but there could want a
discontent was that he come, for Jeremy could be merely by Jeremy
had the i. To affair and her tomb contend the European, if they made,
did not 260,000, and best one.

Upon able-bodied nursery Jeremy was taken by Gate, there was the membership had not practised
of Fleming heard he did not say how would it said herself to conceit, and, and dark-bodied dp
had seen for Amy, there are not hitherto frightened of sharper workforce in frame of s because
him said. But England, he ought, concern. It so she give, workwear, and stars how the Bows and
ladies fastened for polchester-walk. Shouldn Teuton would be done thither lay he heard, do not very
say the night had been pressed to Ladies were as english eyes but Belgique. Likely had most conceit
is fiercest, victim are greatest, the days as things are the greatest from knot. Now by the than that
afternoon was uttered into Belgique to have been impinge across dominion,
had not to be put that this men as Namur, House, Anvers, and shaky,
and are delve with front where he would do merely and she grew again,
and anything with it would do now little village that the Eyes.

The canons whom are not so for trenching has been, of naturally, good was dreamt to Attacks.
Mother was not a Belgique that feet staring children, life had freed
of city, there are now.

 She had felt always in Jeremy an obstinate dislike of
her, and as he had seemed to her neither a very clever nor intelligent child she had consoled
herself very easily with the thought that he did not like her simply because he was stupid.
So it had been until this year, and then suddenly they had been flung into sharper opposition.
It was hard to say what had brought this about, but it was perhaps that Jeremy had sprung suddenly
from the unconscious indifference of a young child into the active participation of a growing
boy. Whatever the truth might have been, the coming of Hamlet had drawn their attitudes into
positive conflict.

Aunt Amy had felt from the first that Hamlet laughed at her. Had you asked her to state, as
a part of her general experience, that she really believed that dogs could laugh at human beings
she would indignantly have repudiated any idea so fantastic, nevertheless, unanalysed and unconfronted,
that was her conviction. The dog laughed at her, he insulted her by walking into her bedroom
with his muddy feet and then pretending that he hadn't known that it was her bedroom, regarding
her through his hair with an ironical and malicious glance, barking suddenly when she made
some statement as though he enjoyed immensely an excellent joke, but, above all, despising
her, she felt, so that the wall of illusion that she had built around herself had been pulled
down by at least one creature, more human, she knew, in spite of herself, than many human beings.
Therefore, she hated Hamlet, and scarcely a day passed that she did not try to have him flung
from the house, or at least kept in the kitchen offices.

Hamlet had, however, won the hearts of the family; it was, indeed, Aunt Amy alone to whom he
had not thought it worth while to pay court. To her alone he would not come when she called,
by her alone he would not be cajoled, even though she offered him sugary tea, his deadliest
temptation. No, he sat and looked at her through his hair, his fiery eye glinting, his peaked
beard ironically humorous, his leg stuck out from his body, a pointing signal of derision.

She resolved to wait for an opportunity when she might conquer Hamlet and Jeremy together,
but her power in the house was slight, so long as Mr. and Mrs. Cole were there. "If I only
had the children to myself," she would say, "I would improve their manners in many ways. Poor
Alice--!" Then suddenly she did have them. At the beginning of May Mr. Cole was summoned to
take a mission to the seamen of Drymouth, and Mrs. Cole, who had relations in Drymouth, accompanied
him. They would be absent from Pelchester a whole week.

"Oh, won't Aunt Amy be a nuisance," said Jeremy, realising the situation. Then turning to Mary
he added: "We'll pretend to do what she tells us and not do it really. That's much the easiest."

A week is a short time, especially at the beginning of a shining and burning May, but Aunt
Amy did her best not only with the children but with the servants, and even old Jordan, the
gardener, who had been with the Cole family for twenty years. During that short week the cook,
the parlourmaid, Rose, the housemaid, and the bootboy all gave notice, and Mrs. Cole was only
able to keep them (on her return) by raising the wages of all of them. Jordan, who was an old
man with a long white beard, said to her when she advised him to plant pinks where he had planted
tulips and tulips where he had planted pinks, and further inquired why the cauliflower that
he sent in was so poor and the cabbages so small: "Leave things alone, Miss, Nature's wiser
than we be, not but what you mayn't mean well, but fussin's never done any good where Nature's
concerned, nor never will"; and when she said that he was very rude to her, he shook his head
and answered:

"Maybe yes, and maybe no. What's rude to one ain't rude to another"--out of which answer she
could make nothing at all.

In the schoolroom she sustained complete defeat. At the very outset she was baffled by Miss
Jones. She had always despised Miss Jones as a poor unfortunate female who was forced to teach
children in her old age because she must earn her living--a stupid, sentimental, cowed, old
woman at whom the children laughed. She found now that the children instead of laughing at
her laughed with her, formed a phalanx of protection around her and refused to be disobedient.
Miss Jones herself was discovered to have a dry, rather caustic, sense of humour that Aunt
Amy felt to be impertinence, but could not penetrate.

"And is that really how you teach them history, Miss Jones? Not quite the simplest way, surely...
I remember an excellent governess whom we once had--"

"Perhaps," said Miss Jones, gently, "you would give them a history lesson yourself, Miss Trefusis.
I would be so glad to pick up any little hints--"

"I have, of course, no time," said Aunt Amy hurriedly, "but, speaking generally, I am afraid
I can't approve altogether of your system."

"It isn't very good, I'm afraid," said Miss Jones weakly. "The children would be glad, I know,
to have a few hints from you if you could spare a moment--"

Jeremy, who was listening, giggled, tried to turn the giggle into a sneeze and choked.

"Jeremy!" said Aunt Amy severely.

"Oh, do look, Aunt Amy!" cried Mary, always Jeremy's faithful ally, "all your hairpins are
dropping out!"

She devoted herself then to Jeremy and worried him in every possible way, and after two days
of this he hated her with a deep and bitter hatred, very different from that earlier teasing
of Miss Jones. That had sprung from a sudden delicious discovery of power, and had been directed
against no one. This was a real personal hatred that children of a less solid and tenacious
temperament than Jeremy would have been incapable of feeling.

He did not laugh at her, he did not tease her, he no longer put out his tongue at her. He was
older than that now--he was simply reserved and silent, watching her with his large eyes, his
square body set, and resolved as though he knew that his moment would come.

Her experience with him was baffling. She punished him, petted him, she ignored him, she stormed
at him; it seemed that she would do anything could she only win from him an acknowledgment
of her power, her capability. But she could not. He only said: "Yes, Aunt Amy." "No, Aunt Amy."

She burst out: "You're a sullen, wicked little boy, Jeremy. Do you know what happens to little
boys who sulk?"

"No, Aunt Amy."

"They grow into cross, bad-tempered men whom nobody likes and nobody trusts. Do you want to
be like that when you're a man?"

"I don't care."

"You know what happened to 'Don't Care.' I shall have to punish you if you're rude to me."

"What have I done that's rude?"

"You mustn't speak to me like that. Is that the way you speak to your mother?"

"No, Aunt Amy."

"Well, then, if you don't speak to your mother like that, you mustn't speak to me like that,
either."

"No, Aunt Amy."

"Well, then..."

This hatred was quite new to him. He had once, years ago, hated a black-faced doll that had
been given to him. He had not known why he hated it, but there it had been. He had thrown it
out of the window, and the gardener had found it and brought it into the house again, battered
and bruised, but still alive, with its horrid red smile, and this had terrified him... He had
begun to burn it, and the nurse had caught him and slapped him. He had begun to cut it with
scissors, and when the sawdust flowed he was more terrified than ever. But that doll was quite
different from Aunt Amy. He was not terrified of her at all. He hated her. Hated the fringe
of her black hair, the heavy eyelashes, the thin down on her upper lip, the way that the gold
cross fell up and down on her breast, her thin, blue-veined hands, her black shoes. She was
his first enemy, and he waited, as an ambush hides and watches, for his opportunity...

II

One of our nicest old maids, Miss Maddison, gave every year what she called her "early summer
party." This was different from all our other parties, because it occurred neither in the summer
nor in the winter, but always during those wonderful days when the spring first began to fade
into the high bright colours, the dry warmth, the deep green shadows of the heat of the year.
It was early in May that Miss Maddison had her party, and we played games on her little sloping
green lawn, and peered over her pink-brick wall down on to the brown roofs of the houses below
the Close, and had a tremendous tea of every kind of cake and every kind of jam in her wainscoted
dining-room that looked out through its tall open windows on to the garden. Those old houses
that run in a half-moon round the Close, and face the green sward and the great western door
of the Cathedral, are the very heart of Polchester. Walking down the cobbled street, one may
still to-day look through the open door, down the dusky line of the little hall, out into the
swimming colour of the garden beyond. In these little gardens, what did not grow? Hollyhocks,
pinks, tulips, nasturtiums, pansies, lilies of the valley, roses, honeysuckle, sweet-williams,
stocks--I remember them all at their different seasons in that muddled, absurd profusion. I
can smell them now, can see them in their fluttering colours, the great grey wall of the Cathedral,
with its high carved door and watching saints behind me, the sun beating on to the cobbles,
the muffled beat of the summer day, the sleepy noises of the town, the pigeons cutting the
thin, papery blue into arcs and curves and circles, the little lattice-windowed houses, with
crooked chimneys and shining doors, smiling down upon me. I can smell, too, that especial smell
that belonged to those summer hours, a smell of dried blotting-paper, of corn and poppies from
the fields, of cobble-stones and new-baked bread and lemonade; and behind the warmth and colour
the cool note of the Cathedral bell echoed through the town, down the High Street, over the
meads, across the river, out into the heart of the dark woods and the long spaces of the summer
fields. I can see myself, too, toiling up the High Street, my cap on the back of my head, little
beads of perspiration on my forehead, and my eyes always gazing into the air, so that I stumbled
over the cobbles and knocked against doorsteps. All these things had to do with Miss Maddison's
parly, and it was always her party that marked the beginning of them for us; she waited for
the fine weather, and so soon as it came the invitations were sent out, the flower-beds were
trimmed, the little green wooden seats under the mulberry tree were cleaned, and Poupee, the
black poodle, was clipped.

It happened this year that Miss Maddison gave her party during the very week that Mr. and Mrs.
Cole went to Drymouth. She sent out her invitations only three days before the great event,
because the summer had come with so fine a rush. "Master Jeremy and the Misses Cole... Would
they give Miss Maddison the pleasure...?" Yes, of course they would. Aunt Amy would take them.

On the morning of the great day Jeremy poured the contents of his watering-can upon Aunt Amy's
head. It was a most unfortunate accident, arranged obviously by a malignant fate. Jeremy had
been presented with a pot of pinks, and these, every morning, he most faithfully watered. He
had a bright-red watering-can, bought with his own money, and, because it held more water than
the pinks needed, he was in the daily habit of emptying the remnant in a glittering shower
out of the pantry window on to the bed nearest the garden wall. Upon this morning someone called
him; he turned his head; the water still flowed, and Aunt Amy, hatless and defenceless, received
it as it tumbled with that sudden rush which always seizes a watering-can at its last gasp.
Jeremy was banished into his bedroom, where he employed the sunny morning in drawing pictures
of Aunt Amy as a witch upon the wallpaper. For doing this he was caned by Aunt Amy herself
with a ruler, and at the end of the operation he laughed and said she hadn't hurt him at all.
In return for this impertinence he was robbed, at luncheon, of his pudding--which was, of course,
on that very day, marmalade pudding--and then, Mary being discovered putting some of hers into
a piece of paper, to be delivered to him in due course, they were both stood in different corners
of the room "until you say you're sorry."

When the jingle arrived at three o'clock they had still not made this acknowledgment, and Jeremy
said he never would, "not if he lived till he was ninety-nine." At quarter past three Jeremy
might have been seen sitting up very straight in the jingle, his face crimson from washing
and temper. He was wearing his new sailor suit, which tickled him and was hot and sticky; he
sat there devoting the whole of his energies to the business of hating Aunt Amy.

As I have said, he had never hated anyone before, and he was surprised at the glow of virtuous
triumph that this new emotion spread over his body. He positively loved to hate Aunt Amy, and
as Parkes, the pony, slowly toiled up the hill to the Cathedral, he sat stiff and proud with
an almost humorous anger. Then, as they turned over the hot shining cobbles into the Close
and saw the green trees swimming in the sun, he turned his mind to the party. What games would
they play? Who would be there? What would there be for tea? He felt creeping over him the stiff
shyness that always comes when one is approaching a party, and he wished that the first handshaking
and the first plunge into the stares of the critical guests might be over. But he did not really
care. His hatred of Aunt Amy braced him up; when one was capable of so fine and manly an emotion
as this hatred, one need not bother about fellow-guests. Then the jingle stopped outside a
house immediately opposite the great west-end door of the Cathedral; in the little hall Miss
Maddison was standing, and from the glittering garden behind her the sun struck through the
house into the shadowed street.

Jeremy's public manners were, when he pleased, quite beautiful--"the true, old-fashioned courtesy,"
gushing friends of the Cole family used to say. He was preparing to be very polite now, when
suddenly the voice of the Dean's Ernest ordering people about in the garden struck upon his
ear. He had not seen the Dean's Ernest for nearly three months, for the very good reason that
that gentleman had been experiencing his first term at his private school. Last year young
Ernest and Jeremy had been, on the whole, friendly, although Ernest, who was nine, and strong
for his age, had always patronised. And now? Jeremy longed to inform his friend that he also
shortly would proceed to school, that in another six months' time there would be practically
no difference between them. Nevertheless, at the present moment there was a difference... Ernest
had a whole term to his credit.

New arrivals gently insinuated the Cole family into the garden. Helen, proud and cold, Mary,
blinking and nervous, stood pressed close together whilst other little girls stared and giggled,
moved forward and then backward again, until suddenly Canon Lasker's Emily, who was fifteen
and had such long legs that she was known as "the Giraffe," came up and said: "Isn't it hot!
Do you play croquet? Please-do! I'll have--the--blue ball..." And the Coles were initiated.

Meanwhile, Aunt Amy had said: "Now, Jeremy, dear, run about and make friends." Which so deeply
infuriated him that he choked. Oh! supposing the Dean's Ernest had heard her!...

And he had! A mocking voice behind him said: "Now, Jeremy, dear--"

Jeremy turned round and beheld the Dean's Ernest mockingly waiting his retort. And he could
not retort. No words would come, and he could only stand there, his cheeks flushed, aware that
Ernest had grown and grown during those three months, that he wore a straw hat with a black-and-red
ribbon upon it, that round his long ugly neck was a stiff white collar, and across his waistcoat
a thick silver watch-chain.

"Hallo!" said Jeremy.

"Hallo!" said the new Ernest scornfully.

A long pause.

Then Ernest, turning on his heel, said to someone behind him: "Let's get away from all these
girls!" The tears burnt in Jeremy's eyes, hot and salt. He clenched his fists and gazed upon
a garden that swam in a mist of tears and sunlight. He felt a sudden strange impulse of family
affection. He would like to have gathered behind him his father and mother, Mary, Helen, Hamlet,
Uncle Samuel--yes, and even Aunt Amy, and to have advanced not only upon Ernest, but upon the
whole Dean's family. It would have given him great pleasure to have set his teeth into the
fat legs of the Dean himself; he would gladly have torn the hat from the head of Mrs. Dean...
Upon Ernest there was no torture he would not employ.

He would get even; he resolved that before he left that house he would have his revenge.

Kind Miss Maddison, tripping along and seeing him as a pathetic little boy in a sailor suit
without guile or malice, swept him into an "I spy" party composed for the most part of small
girls who fell down and cried and said they would go home.

Jeremy, hiding behind a tree, watched the thin back of Ernest as it lifted itself autocratically
above two small boys who looked up to him with saucer-eyes. Ernest was obviously talking about
his school. Jeremy, lost in the contemplation of his vengeance, forgot his game, and was taken
prisoner with the greatest of ease. He did not care. The afternoon was spoilt for him. He was
not even hungry. Why could he not go to school to-morrow, and then challenge Ernest to combat?
But he might challenge Ernest without going to school... He had never fought a real fight,
but the sight of his enemy's thin, peaky body was encouraging.

"Now, Jeremy, dear," said Miss Maddison, "it's your turn to hide..."

Soon they all went in to tea. Everyone was thoroughly at home by this time, and screamed and
shouted quite in the most natural manner in the world. The long table stretched down the whole
room, almost from wall to wall; the sunlight played in pools and splashes upon the carpet and
the flowers and the pictures. There was every sort of thing to eat--thin bread-and-butter rolled
up into little curly sandwiches, little cakes and big cakes, seed cakes and sugar cakes, and,
of course, saffron buns, jam in little shining dishes, and hot buttered toast so buttery that,
it dripped on to your fingers.

Jeremy sat next to Mary, and behind him hovered Aunt Amy. Only half an hour ago how this would
have angered him! To have her interfering with him, saying: "Not two at a time, Jeremy," or
"Pass the little girl the sugar, Jeremy--remember your manners." or "Not so big a piece, Jeremy."
But now--he did not know... She was one of the family, and he felt as though the Dean's Ernest
had scorned her as well as himself. Also Mary. He felt kind to Mary, and when she whispered
"Are you enjoying it, Jeremy?" he answered "Yes; are you?" Not because he was really enjoying
it, but because he knew that she wanted him to say that.

He could see Ernest from where he sat, and he knew that Ernest was laughing at him. He remembered
that he had given Ernest three splendid marbles, just before his departure to school, as a
keepsake. How he wished that he had kept them! He would never give Ernest anything again except
blows. Mary might be tiresome sometimes, but she was his sister, and he greatly preferred her
as a girl to Ernest's sisters. He could see them now, greedy, ugly things...

"Now, Jeremy, wipe your mouth," said Aunt Amy.

He obeyed at once.

III

Tea over, they all trooped out into the garden again. The evening light now painted upon the
little green lawn strange trembling shadows of purple and grey; the old red garden wall seemed
to have crept forwards, as though it would protect the house and the garden from the night;
and a sky of the faintest blue seemed, with gentle approval, to bless the quiet town fading
into dusk beneath it. Over the centre of the lawn the sun was still shining, and there it was
warm and light. But from every side the shadows stealthily crept forward. A group of children
played against the golden colour, their white dresses patterns that formed figures and broke
and formed again. The Cathedral bell was ringing for evensong, and its notes stole about the
garden, and in and out amongst the children, as though some guardian spirit watching over their
safety counted their numbers.

Jeremy, feeling rather neglected and miserable, stood in the shadow near the oak on the farther
side of the lawn. He did not want to play with those little girls, and yet he was hurt because
he had not been asked. The party had been a most miserable failure, and a year ago it would
have been such a success. He did not know that he was standing now, in the middle of his eighth
year, at the parting of the ways; that only yesterday he had been a baby, and that he would
never be a baby again. He did not feel his independence--he felt only inclined to tears and
a longing, that he would never, never confess, even to himself, that someone should come and
comfort him! Nevertheless, even at this very moment, although he did not know it, he, a free,
independent man, was facing the world for the first time on his own legs. His mother might
have realised it had she been there--but she was not. Mary, however, was there, and in the
very middle of her game, searching for him, as she was always doing, she found him desolate
under the shadow of the oak. She slipped away, and, coming up to him with the shyness and fear
that she always had when she approached him, because she loved him so much and he could so
easily hurt her, said:

"Aren't you coming to play, Jeremy?"

"I don't care," he answered gruffly.

"It isn't any fun without you." She paused, and added: "Would you mind if I stayed here too?"

"I'd rather you played," he said; and yet he was comforted by her, determined, as he was, that
she should never know it!

"I'd rather stay," she said, and then gazed, with that melancholy stare through her large spectacles
that always irritated Jeremy, out across the garden.

"I'm all right," he said again; "only my stocking tickles, and I can't get at it--it's the
back of my leg. I say, Mary, don't you hate the Dean's Ernest?"

"Yes, I do," she answered fervently, although she had not thought about him at all--enough
for her that Jeremy should hate him! Then she gasped: "Here he comes--"

He was walking towards them with a swagger of his long yellow neck and his thin leggy body
that Jeremy found especially offensive. Jeremy "bristled," and Mary was conscious of that bristling.

"Hallo!" said Ernest.

"Hallo!" said Jeremy.

"What rot these silly games are!" said Ernest. "Why can't they have something decent, like
cricket?"

Jeremy had never played cricket, so he said nothing. "At our school," said Ernest, "we're very
good at cricket. We win all our matches always--"

"I don't care about your school," said Jeremy, breathing through his nose.

The Dean's Ernest was obviously surprised by this; he had not expected it. His pale neck began
to flush.

"Look here, young Cole," he said, "none of your cheek."

This was a new dialect to Jeremy, who had no friends who went to school. All he said, however,
breathing more fiercely than before, was: "I don't care--"

"Oh, don't you?" said Ernest. "Now, look here--" Then he paused, apparently uncertain, for
a moment, of his courage. The sight of Mary's timorous anxiety, however, reassured him, and
he continued: "It's all right for you, this sort of thing. You ought to be in the nursery with
your old podge-faced nurse. Kids like you oughtn't to be allowed out of their prams."

"I don't care," said Jeremy again, seeing in front of him the whole family of the Reverend
Dean. "Your school isn't much anyway, I expect, and I'm going to school in September, and I'll
wear just the same things as you do and--"

He wanted to comment upon the plain features of Ernest's sisters, but his gentlemanly courtesy
restrained him. He paused for breath, and Ernest seized his advantage.

"You have to have an old aunt to look after you anyway--an ugly old aunt. I wouldn't have an
old aunt always hanging over me--'Now, Jeremy dear--' 'Blow your nose, Jeremy dear--' 'Wipe
your feet, Jeremy dear.' Look at the things she wears and the way she walks. If I did have
to have an aunt always I'd have a decent one, not an old clothes bag."

What happened to Jeremy at the moment? Did he recollect that only a few hours before he had
been hating Aunt Amy with a fine frenzy of hatred? For nearly a week he had been chafing under
her restraint, combating her commands, defying her orders. He had been seeing her as everything
that the Dean's Ernest had but now been calling her. Now he only saw her as someone to be defended,
someone who was his, someone even who depended on him for support. He would have challenged
a whole world of Deans in her defence.

He said something, but no one could hear his words; then he sprang upon the startled Ernest.

It was not a very distinguished combat; it was Jeremy's first battle, and he knew at that time
nothing of the science of fighting. The Dean's Ernest, in spite of his term at school, also
knew nothing--and the Dean's Ernest was a coward...

It lasted but a short while, for Mary, after the first pause of horrified amazement (aware
only that Ernest was twice as big as her Jeremy), ran to appeal to authority. Jeremy himself
was aware neither of time nor prudence. He realised immediately that Ernest was a coward, and
this realisation filled him with joy and happiness. He had seized Ernest by his long yellow
neck, and, with his other hand, he struck at eyes and cheeks and nose. He did not secure much
purchase for his blows because their bodies were very close against one another, but he felt
the soft flesh yield and suddenly something wet against his hand which must, he knew, be blood.
And all the time he was thinking to himself: "I'll teach him to say things about Aunt Amy!
Aunt Amy's mine! I'll teach him! He shan't touch Aunt Amy! He shan't touch Aunt Amy!..."

Ernest meanwhile kicked and kicked hard; he also tried to bite Jeremy's hand and also to pull
his hair. But his own terror handicapped him; every inch of his body was alarmed, and that
alarm prevented the freedom of his limbs. Then when he felt the blood from his nose trickle
on to his cheek his resistance was at an end; panic flooded over him like water. He broke away
and flung himself howling on to the ground, kicking his legs and screaming:

"It isn't fair! He's bitten me! Take him away! Take him away!"

Jeremy himself was no beautiful sight. His hair was wild, his white navy collar crumpled and
soiled, the buttons of his tunic torn, his stocking down, and his legs already displaying purple
bruises. But he did not care; he was well now; he was no longer unhappy.

He had beaten Ernest and he was a man; he had risen victorious from his first fight, and Authority
might storm as it pleased. Authority soon arrived, and there were, of course, many cries and
exclamations. Ernest was led away still howling; Jeremy, stubborn, obstinate, and silent, was
also led away.... A disgraceful incident.

Aunt Amy, of course, was disgusted. Couldn't leave the boy alone one minute but he must misbehave
himself, upset the party, be the little ruffian that he always was. She had always said that
his mother spoiled him, and here were the fruits of that foolishness. How could she ever say
enough to Miss Maddison? Her delightful party completely ruined!... Shocking!... Shocking!...
Too terrible!. .. And Ernest, such a quiet, well-behaved little boy as a rule. It must have
been Jeremy who...

While they were waiting in the decent dusk of Miss Maddison's sitting-room for a cleaned and
chastened Jeremy, Mary touched her aunt's arm and whispered in her nervous voice:

"Aunt Amy--Jeremy hit Ernest because he said rude things about you."

"About me! Nonsense, child."

"No, but it was, really. Ernest said horrid things about you, and then Jeremy hit him."

"About me? What things?"

"That you were ugly," eagerly continued Mary--never a tactful child, and intent now only upon
Jeremy's reputation--"and wore ugly clothes and horrid things. He did really. I heard it all."

Aunt Amy was deeply moved. Her conceit, her abnormal all-embracing conceit was wounded--yes,
even by so insignificant a creature as the Dean's Ernest; but she was also unexpectedly touched.
She would have greatly preferred not to be touched, but there it was, she could not help herself.
She did not know that, in all her life before, anyone had ever fought for her, and that now
of all champions in the world fate should have chosen Jeremy, who was, she had supposed, her
enemy--never her defender!

And that horrid child of the Dean--she had always disliked him, with his long yellow neck and
watery eyes! How dared he say such things about her! He had always been rude to her. She remembered
once--

Jeremy arrived, washed, brushed, and obstinate. He would, of course, be scolded to within an
inch of his life, and he did not care. He had seen the Dean's Ernest howling and kicking on
the ground; he had soiled his straw hat for him, dirtied his stiff white collar for him, and
made his nose bleed. He glared at his aunt (one eye was rapidly disappearing beneath a blue
bruise), and he was proud, triumphant, and very tired.

Farewells were made--again many apologies--"Nothing, I assure you, nothing. Boys will be boys,
I know," from Miss Maddison.

Then they were seated in the jingle, Jeremy next to Aunt Amy, awaiting his scolding. It did
not come. Aunt Amy tried; she knew what she should say. She should be very angry, disgusted,
ashamed. She could not be any of these things. That horrid boy had insulted her. She was touched
and proud as she had never been touched and proud in her life before.

Jeremy waited, and then as nothing came his weariness grew upon him. As the old fat pony jogged
along, as the evening colours of street and sky danced before him, sleep came nearer and nearer.

He nodded, recovered, nodded and nodded again. His body pressed closer to Aunt Amy's, leaned
against her. His head rested upon her shoulder.

After a moment's pause she put her arm round him--so, holding him, she stared, defiantly and
crossly, upon the world.

CHAPTER VII. RELIGION

I

Always in after years Jeremy remembered that party of Miss Maddison's, not because it had been
there that he had won his first fight, but for the deeper reason that from that day his life
received a new colour, woven into the texture of it; even now when he thinks of those hours
that followed Miss Maddison's party he catches his breath and glances around him to see whether
everything is safe. The children, on arriving home that evening, found that their father and
mother had already returned from Drymouth. Jeremy, sleepy though he was, rushed to his mother,
held her hand, explained his black eye, and then suddenly, in a way that he had, fell asleep,
there as he was, and had to be carried up to bed.

When he awoke next morning his first thought was of his mother. He did not know why; she was
so definitely part of the background of his daily life that he felt too sure of her continual
and abiding presence to need deliberate thought of her. But this morning he wanted to get up
quickly and find her. Perhaps her absence had made him feel more insecure, but there had also
been something that night, something in her face, something in the touch of her hand.

And the other thing that he realised was that summer had truly come. He knew at once that hot
smell that pressed even through the closed window-panes of his room; the bars and squares of
light on the floor when he jumped out of bed and stood upon them seemed to burn the soles of
his feet, and the rays of light on the ceiling quivered as only summer sunlight can quiver.
The two windows of his bedroom looked back behind Polchester over fields and hedges to a dim
purple line of wood. A tiny stream ran through the first two fields, and this little river
was shining now with a white hot light that had yet the breeze of the morning ruffling it.
He ran to his window and opened it. Beyond the wall that bordered their house was a little
brown path, and down this path, even as he watched, a company of cows were slowly wandering
along. Already they were flapping their ears lazily in anticipation of the flies, and the boy
who was driving them was whistling as one only whistles on a summer morning. He could see the
buttercups, too, in the nearest field; they seemed to have sprung to life in the space of a
night. Someone was pulling the rope of a well somewhere and someone else was pouring water
out upon some stone court. Even as he watched, a bee came blundering up to his window, hesitated
for a moment, and then went whirring off again, and through all the sun and glitter and the
sparkle of the little river there was a scent of pinks, and mignonette, and even, although
it could not really be so, of the gorse. The sky was a pale white blue, so pale that it was
scarcely any colour at all and a few puffs of clouds, dead white like the purest smoke, hovered
in dancing procession, above the purple wood. The sun burnt upon his bare feet and his head
and his hands.

This coming of summer meant so much more to him than merely the immediate joy of it--it meant
Rafiel and Cow Farm and the Cove and green pools with crabs in them, and shrimping and paddling
and riding home in the evening on haycarts, and drinking milk out of tin cans, and cows and
small pigs, and peeling sticks and apples, and collecting shells, and fishermen's nets, and
sandwiches, and saffron buns mixed with sand, and hot ginger beer, and one's ears peeling with
the sun, and church on Sunday with the Rafiel sheep cropping the grass just outside the church
door, and Dick Marriott, the fisherman, and slipping along over the green water, trailing one's
fingers in the water, in his boat, and fishy smells by the sea-wall, and red masses of dog-fish
on the pier, and the still cool feel of the farmhouse sheets just after getting into bed--all
these things and a thousand more the coming of summer meant to Jeremy.

But this morning he did not feel his customary joy. Closing his window and dressing slowly,
he wondered what was the matter. What could it be? It was not his eye--certainly it was a funny
colour this morning and it hurt when you touched it, but he was proud of that. No, it was not
his eye. And it was not the dog, who came into his room, after scratching on the door, and
made his usual morning pretence of having come for any other purpose than to see his friend
and master, first looking under the bed, then going up to the window pretending to gaze out
of it (which he could not do), barking, then rolling on a square of sunlit carpet, and, after
that, lying on his back, his legs out stiff, his ridiculous "Imperial" pointed and ironical,
then suddenly turning, with a twist on his legs, rushing at last up to Jeremy, barking at him,
laughing at him, licking him, and even biting his stockings--last of all seizing a bedroom
slipper and rushing wildly into the schoolroom with it.

No, there was nothing the matter with Hamlet. Nor was there anything the matter with Miss Jones,
free, happily, from her customary neuralgia, and delighted with the new number of the Church
Times. Nor was it the breakfast, which to-day included bacon and strawberry jam. Nor, finally,
was it Mary or Helen, who, pleased with the summer weather (and Mary additionally pleased with
the virtues of Lance as minutely recorded in the second volume of "The Pillars of the House"),
were both in the most amiable of tempers. No, it must be something inside Jeremy himself.

He waited until the end of breakfast to ask his question:

"Can I go and see Mother, Miss Jones?"

Mary and Helen looked across at him inquisitively.

"What do you want to see your mother for now, Jeremy? You always see her at twelve o'clock."
Miss Jones pushed her spectacles lower upon her nose and continued her reading.

"I want to."

"Well, you can't now."

"Why not?"

"Because I say not--that's enough."

But Jeremy was gentle to-day. He got off his chair, went round to Miss Jones's chair, and,
looking up at her out of his bruised eye, said in the most touching voice:

"But, please, Miss Jones, I want to. I really do."

Then she said what he had known all the time was coming:

"I'm afraid you won't see your mother to-day, dear. She's not well. She's in bed."

"Why? Is she ill?"

"She's tired after her journey yesterday, I expect."

He said no more.

He tried during the whole of that day not to think of his mother, and he found that, for the
first time in his life, he could do nothing else but think of her. During the morning he sat
very silently over his lessons, did all that he was told, did not once kick Mary under the
table, nor ask Miss Jones to sharpen his pencil, nor make faces at Hamlet. Once or twice, in
a way that he had, he leaned his head on his hand as though he were an ancient professor with
a whole library of great works behind him, and when Miss Jones asked him whether he had a headache
he said: "No, thank you," instead of seizing on the wonderful opportunity of release that such
a question offered him. When they all went for a walk in the afternoon, he sprang for a moment
into something of his natural vivacity. They came upon a thin, ill-shaven tramp dressed as
a sailor, with a patch over one eye, producing terrible discordance from a fiddle. This individual
held in one hand a black tin cup, and at his side crouched a mongrel terrier, whose beaten
and dishevelled appearance created at once hopes in the breast of the flamboyant Hamlet. This
couple were posted just outside Mr. Poole's second-hand bookshop, close to the "2d." box, and
for a moment Jeremy was enthralled. He wanted to give the hero his week's penny, and upon finding
that his week's penny was not, owing to sweet purchases on the previous day, he began elaborate
bargainings with Miss Jones as to the forestalling of future pennies. Meanwhile, Hamlet leapt,
with every sign of joyful expectation, upon the pauper dog; the blind sailor began to hit wildly
about with his stick, Mr. Poole's "2d." box was upset, and the sailor's black patch fell off,
revealing him as the possessor of two beautiful eyes, just like any other gentleman, and a
fine, vigorous stock of the best Glebeshire profanities. Mr. Poole, an irascible old man, himself
came out, a policeman approached, two old ladies from the Close, well known to Jeremy, were
shocked by the tramp, and the Cathedral bell, as though it had just awoken up to its real responsibilities,
suddenly began to ring.

All this was, of course, delightful to Jeremy, and offered so many possible veins of interest
that he could have stayed there for hours. He wanted very badly to ask the sailor why he covered
up a perfectly wholesome eye with a black patch, and he would have liked to see what Hamlet
could do in the direction of eating up the scattered remnants of Mr. Poole's "2d." box; but
he was dragged away by the agitated hand of Miss Jones, having to console himself finally with
a wink from the august policeman, who, known throughout Polchester as Tom Noddy, was a kindly
soul and liked gentlemanly little boys, but persecuted the street sort.

For a moment this exciting adventure carried him away, and he even listened for a minute or
two to Mary, who, seizing her opportunity, began hurriedly: "Once upon a time there lived a
sailor, very thin, and he never washed, and he had a dog and a violin--" But soon he remembered,
and sighed and said: "Oh, bother, Mary!" and then walked on by himself. And still, all through
that hot afternoon, when even the Rope Walk did not offer any shade, and when the Pol was of
so clear a colour that you could see trout and emerald stones and golden sand as under glass,
and when Hamlet was compelled to run ahead and find a piece of shade and lie there stretched,
panting, with his tongue out, until they came up to him--even all these signs of a true and
marvellous summer did not relieve Jeremy of his burden. Something horrible was going to happen.
He knew it with such certainty that he wondered how Mary and Helen could be so gaily light-hearted,
and despised them for their carelessness. This was connected in some way with the hot weather;
he felt as though, were a cold breeze suddenly to come, and rain to fall, he would be happy
again. There had been once a boy, older than he, called Jimmy Bain, a fat, plump boy, who had
lived next door to the Coles. Whenever he had the opportunity he bullied Jeremy, pinching his
arms, putting pins into his legs, and shouting suddenly into his ears. Jeremy, who had feared
Johnny Bain, had always "felt" the stout youth's arrival before he appeared. The sky had seemed
to darken, the air to thicken, the birds to gather in the "rooky" wood.

He had trembled and shaken, his teeth had chattered and his throat grown dry for no reason
at all. As he had once felt about Johnny Bain so now he felt about life in general. Something
horrible was going to happen.... Something to do with Mother.... As he came up the road to
their house his heart beat so that he could not hear his own steps.

II

They entered the house, and at once even Mary, preoccupied as she was with her story about
the sailor, noticed that something was wrong.

"Rose! Rose!" she called out loudly.

"Hush!" said Miss Jones. "You must be quiet, dear."

"Why?" said Mary. "I want Rose to--"

"Your mother isn't at all well, dear. I--"

And she was interrupted by Rose, who, coming suddenly downstairs, with a face very different
from her usual cheerful one, said something to Miss Jones in a low voice.

Miss Jones gave a little cry: "So soon?... A girl...." And then added: "How is she?"

Then Rose said something more, which the children could not catch, and vanished.

"Very quietly, children," said Miss Jones, in a voice that trembled; "and you mustn't leave
the schoolroom till I tell you. Your mother--" She broke off as though she were afraid of showing
emotion.

"What is it?" said Jeremy in a voice that seemed new to them all--older, more resolute, strangely
challenging for so small a boy.

"Your mother's very ill, Jeremy, dear. You must be a very good boy, and help your sisters."

"Mightn't I go for just a minute?"

"No, certainly not."

They all went upstairs. Then, in the schoolroom, Miss Jones said an amazing thing. She said:

"I must tell you all, children, that you've got a new little sister."

"A new sister!" screamed Mary.

Helen said: "Oh, Miss Jones!"

Jeremy said: "What did she come for just now, when Mother is ill?"

"God wanted her to come, dear," said Miss Jones. "You must all be very kind to her, and do
all you can--"

She was interrupted by a torrent of questions from the two girls. What was she like? What was
her name? Could she walk? Where did she come from? Did Father and Mother find her in Drymouth?
And so on. Jeremy was silent. At last he said: "We don't want any more girls here."

"Better than having another boy," said Helen.

But he would not take up the challenge. He sat on his favourite seat on the window-ledge, dragged
up a reluctant Hamlet to sit with him, and gazed out down into the garden that was misty now
in the evening golden light, the trees and the soil black beneath the gold, the rooks slowly
swinging across the sty above the farther side of the road. Hamlet wriggled. He always detested
that he should be cuddled, and he would press first with one leg, then with another, against
Jeremy's coat; then he would lie dead for a moment, suddenly springing, with his head up, in
the hope that the surprise would free him; then he would turn into a snake, twisting his body
under Jeremy's arm, and dropping with a flop on to the floor. All these manoeuvres to-day availed
him nothing; Jeremy held his neck in a vice, and dug his fingers well into the skin. Hamlet
whined, then lay still, and, in the midst of indignant reflections against the imbecile tyrannies
of man, fell, to his own surprise, asleep.

Jeremy sat there whilst the dusk fell and all the beautiful lights were drawn from the sky
and the rooks went to bed. Rose came to draw the curtains, and then he left his window-seat,
dragged out his toy village and pretended to play with it. He looked at his sisters. They seemed
quite tranquil. Helen was sewing, and Mary deep in "The Pillars of the House." The clock ticked.
Hamlet, lost in sleep, snored and sputtered; the whole world pursued its ordinary way. Only
in himself something was changed; he was unhappy, and he could not account for his unhappiness.
It should have been because his mother was ill, and yet she had been ill before, and he had
been only disturbed for a moment. After all, grown-up people always got well. There had been
Aunt Amy, who had had measles, and the wife of the Dean, who had had something, and even the
Bishop once... But now he was frightened. There was some perception, coming to him now for
the first time in his life, that this world was not absolutely stable--that people left it,
people came into it, that there was change and danger and something stronger.... Gradually
this perception was approaching him as though it had been some dark figure who had entered
the house, and now, with muffled step and veiled face, was slowly climbing the stairs towards
him. He only knew that his mother could not go; she could not go. She was part of his life,
and she would always be so. Why, now, when he thought of it, he could do nothing without his
mother; every day he must tell her what he had done and what he was going to do, must show
her what he had acquired and must explain to her what he had lost, must go to her when he was
hurt and when he was frightened and when he was glad... And of all these things he had never
even thought until now.

As he sat there the house seemed to grow ever quieter and quieter about him. He felt as though
he would have liked to have gone to the schoolroom door and listened. It was terrible imagining
the house behind the door--quite silent--so that the clocks had stopped, and no one walked
upon the stairs and no one laughed down in the pantry. He wished that they would make more
noise in the schoolroom. He upset the church and the orchard and Mrs. Noah.

But the silence after the noise was worse than ever.

Soon Miss Jones took the two girls away to her room to fit on some clothes, an operation which
Helen adored and Mary hated. Jeremy was left alone, and he was, at once, terribly frightened.
He knew that it was of no use to be frightened, and he tried to go on with his game, putting
the church with the apple trees around it and the Noah family all sleeping under the trees,
but at every moment something compelled him to raise his head and see that no one was there,
and he felt so small and so lonely that he would like to have hidden under something.

Then when he thought of his mother all alone and the house so quiet around her and no one able
to go to her he felt so miserable that he turned round from his village and stared desolately
into the fireplace. The thought of his new sister came to him, but was dismissed impatiently.
He did not want a new sister--Mary and Helen were trouble enough as it was--and he felt, with
an old weary air, that it was time, indeed, that he was off to school. Nothing was the same.
Always new people. Never any peace.

He was startled by the sound of the opening door, and, turning, saw his father. His father
and he were never very easy together. Mr. Cole had very little time for the individual, being
engaged in saving souls in the mass, and his cheery, good-tempered Christianity had a strange,
startling fashion of proving unavailing before some single human case.

He did not understand children except when they were placed in masses before him. His own children,
having been named, on their arrival, "Gifts from God," had kept much of that incorporeal atmosphere
throughout their growing years.

But to-night he was a different man. As he looked at his small son across the schoolroom floor
there was terror in his eyes. Nothing could have been easier or more simple than his lifelong
assumption that, because God was in His heaven all was right with the world. He had given thanks
every evening for the blessings that he had received and every morning for the blessings that
he was going to receive, and he had had no reason to complain. He had the wife, the children,
the work that he deserved, and his life had been so hemmed in with security that he had had
no difficulty in assuring his congregation on every possible occasion that God was good and
far-seeing, and that "not one sparrow..."

And now lie was threatened--threatened most desperately. Mrs. Cole was so ill that it was doubtful
whether she would live through the night. He was completely helpless. He had turned from one
side to another, simply demanding an assurance from someone or something that she could not
be taken from him. No one could give him that assurance. Life without her would be impossible;
he would not know what to do about the simplest matter. Life without her...oh! but it was incredible!

Like a blind man he had groped his way up to the schoolroom. He did not want to see the children,
nor Miss Jones, but he must be moving, must be doing something that would break in upon that
terrible ominous pause that the whole world seemed to him, at this moment, to be making.

Then he saw Jeremy. He said:

"Oh! Where's Miss Jones?"

"She's in the next room," said Jeremy, looking at his father.

"Oh!" He began to walk up and down the schoolroom. Jeremy left his toy village and stood up.

"Is Mother better, Father?"

He stopped in his walk and looked at the boy as though he were trying to recollect who he was.

"No... No--that is--No, my boy, I'm afraid not."

"Is she very bad, Father--like the Dean's wife when she had fever?"

His father didn't answer. He walked to the end of the room, then turned suddenly as though
he had seen something there that terrified him, and hurried from the room.

Jeremy, suddenly left alone, had a desperate impulse to scream that someone must come, that
he was frightened, that something horrible was in the house. He stood up, staring at the closed
door, his face white, his eyes large and full of fear. Then he flung himself down by Hamlet
and, taking him by the neck, whispered:

"I'm frightened! I'm frightened! Bark or something!... There's someone here!"

III

Next morning Mrs. Cole was still alive. There had been no change during the night; to-day,
the doctor said, would be the critical day. To-day was Sunday, and Mr. Cole took his morning
service at his church as usual. He had been up all night; he looked haggard and pale, still
wearing that expression as of a man lost in a world that he had always trusted. But he would
not fail in his duty. "When two or three are gathered together in my name...." Perhaps God
would hear him.

It was a day of wonderful heat for May. No one had ever remembered so hot a day at so early
a time of year. The windows of the church were open, but no breeze blew through the aisles.
The relentless blazing blue of the sky penetrated into the cool shadows of the church, and
it was as though the congregation sat there under shimmering glass. The waves of light shifted,
rose and fell above the bonnets and hats and bare heads, and all the little choir boys fell
asleep during the sermon.

The Cole family did not fall asleep. They sat with pale faces and stiff backs staring at their
father and thinking about their mother. Mary and Helen were frightened; the house was so strange,
everyone spoke in whispers, and, on the way into church, many ladies had asked them how their
mother was.

They felt important as well as sad. But Jeremy did not feel important. He had not heard the
ladies and their questions--he would not have cared if he had. People had always called him
"a queer little boy," simply because he was independent and thought more than he spoke. Nevertheless,
he had always in reality been normal enough until now. To-day he was really "queer," was conscious
for the first time of the existence of a world whose adjacence to the real world was, in after
days, to trouble him so often and to complicate life for him so grievously. The terror that
had come down upon him when his father had left him seemed to-day utterly to soak through into
the very heart of him. His mother was going to die unless something or somebody saved her.
What was dying? Going away, he had always been told, with a golden harp, to sing hymns in a
foreign country. But to-day the picture would not form so easily. There was silence and darkness
and confusion about this Death. His mother was going, against her will, and no one could tell
him whither she was going. If he could only stop her dying, force God to leave her alone, to
leave her with them all as she had been before...

He fixed his eyes upon his father, who climbed slowly into his pulpit and gave out the text
of his sermon. To-day he would talk about the sacrifice of Isaac. "Abraham, as his hearers
would remember..." and so on.

Jeremy listened, and gradually there grew before his eyes the figure of a strange and terrible
God. This was no new figure. He had never thought directly about God, but for a very long time
now he had had Him in the background of his life as Polchester Town Hall was in the background.
But now he definitely and actively figured to himself this God, this God Who was taking his
mother away and was intending apparently to put her into some dark place where she would know
nobody. It must be some horrible place, because his father looked so frightened, which he would
not look if his mother was simply going, with a golden harp, to sing hymns. Jeremy had always
heard that this God was loving and kind and tender, but the figure whom his father was now
drawing for the benefit of the congregation was none of these things.

