Her appearance made Mannering start. She was full six feet high, wore a man's great-coat over
the rest of her dress, had in her hand a goodly sloethorn cudgel, and in all points of equipment,
except her petticoats, seemed rather masculine than feminine. Her dark elf-locks shot out like
the snakes of the gorgon between an old-fashioned bonnet called a bongrace, heightening the
singular effect of her strong and weather-beaten features, which they partly shadowed, while
her eye had a wild roll that indicated something like real or affected insanity.

'Aweel, Ellangowan,' she said, 'wad it no hae been a bonnie thing, an the leddy had been brought
to bed, and me at the fair o' Drumshourloch, no kenning, nor dreaming a word about it? Wha
was to hae keepit awa the worriecows, I trow? Ay, and the elves and gyre-carlings frae the
bonnie bairn, grace be wi' it? Ay, or said Saint Colme's charm for its sake, the dear?' And
without waiting an answer she began to sing--

     Trefoil, vervain, John's-wort, dill,
     Hinders witches of their
     will, Weel is them, that weel may
     Fast upon Saint Andrew's day.

     Saint Bride and her brat,
     Saint Colme and his cat,
     Saint Michael and his spear,
     Keep the house frae reif and wear.

This charm she sung to a wild tune, in a high and shrill voice, and, cutting three capers with
such strength and agility as almost to touch the roof of the room, concluded, 'And now, Laird,
will ye no order me a tass o' brandy?'

'That you shall have, Meg. Sit down yont there at the door and tell us what news ye have heard
at the fair o' Drumshourloch.'

'Troth, Laird, and there was muckle want o' you, and the like o' you; for there was a whin
bonnie lasses there, forbye mysell, and deil ane to gie them hansels.'

'Weel, Meg, and how mony gipsies were sent to the tolbooth?'

'Troth, but three, Laird, for there were nae mair in the fair, bye mysell, as I said before,
and I e'en gae them leg-bail, for there's nae ease in dealing wi' quarrelsome fowk. And there's
Dunbog has warned the Red Rotten and John Young aff his grunds-- black be his cast! he's nae
gentleman, nor drap's bluid o' gentleman, wad grudge twa gangrel puir bodies the shelter o'
a waste house, and the thristles by the roadside for a bit cuddy, and the bits o' rotten birk
to boil their drap parritch wi'. Weel, there's Ane abune a'; but we'll see if the red cock
craw not in his bonnie barn-yard ae morning before day-dawing.'

'Hush! Meg, hush! hush! that's not safe talk.'

'What does she mean?' said Mannering to Sampson, in an undertone.

'Fire-raising,' answered the laconic Dominie.

'Who, or what is she, in the name of wonder?'

'Harlot, thief, witch, and gipsy,' answered Sampson again.

'O troth, Laird,' continued Meg, during this by-talk, 'it's but to the like o' you ane can
open their heart; ye see, they say Dunbog is nae mair a gentleman than the blunker that's biggit
the bonnie house down in the howm. But the like o' you, Laird, that's a real gentleman for
sae mony hundred years, and never hunds puir fowk aff your grund as if they were mad tykes,
nane o' our fowk wad stir your gear if ye had as mony capons as there's leaves on the trysting-tree.
And now some o' ye maun lay down your watch, and tell me the very minute o' the hour the wean's
born, an I'll spae its fortune.'

'Ay, but, Meg, we shall not want your assistance, for here's a student from Oxford that kens
much better than you how to spae its fortune; he does it by the stars.'

'Certainly, sir,' said Mannering, entering into the simple humour of his landlord, 'I will
calculate his nativity according to the rule of the "triplicities," as recommended by Pythagoras,
Hippocrates, Diocles, and Avicenna. Or I will begin ab hora questionis, as Haly, Messahala,
Ganwehis, and Guido Bonatus have recommended.'

One of Sampson's great recommendations to the favour of Mr. Bertram was, that he never detected
the most gross attempt at imposition, so that the Laird, whose humble efforts at jocularity
were chiefly confined to what were then called bites and bams, since denominated hoaxes and
quizzes, had the fairest possible subject of wit in the unsuspecting Dominie. It is true, he
never laughed, or joined in the laugh which his own simplicity afforded--nay, it is said, he
never laughed but once in his life, and on that memorable occasion his landlady miscarried,
partly through surprise at the event itself, and partly from terror at the hideous grimaces
which attended this unusual cachinnation. The only effect which the discovery of such impositions
produced upon this saturnine personage was, to extort an ejaculation of 'Prodigious!' or 'Very
facetious!' pronounced syllabically, but without moving a muscle of his own countenance.

On the present occasion, he turned a gaunt and ghastly stare upon the youthful astrologer,
and seemed to doubt if he had rightly understood his answer to his patron.

'I am afraid, sir,' said Mannering, turning towards him, 'you may be one of those unhappy persons
who, their dim eyes being unable to penetrate the starry spheres, and to discern therein the
decrees of heaven at a distance, have their hearts barred against conviction by prejudice and
misprision.'

'Truly,' said Sampson, 'I opine with Sir Isaac Newton, Knight, and umwhile master of his Majesty's
mint, that the (pretended) science of astrology is altogether vain, frivolous, and unsatisfactory.'
And here he reposed his oracular jaws.

'Really,' resumed the traveller, 'I am sorry to see a gentleman of your learning and gravity
labouring under such strange blindness and delusion. Will you place the brief, the modern,
and, as I may say, the vernacular name of Isaac Newton in opposition to the grave and sonorous
authorities of Dariot, Bonatus, Ptolemy, Haly, Eztler, Dieterick, Naibob, Harfurt, Zael, Taustettor,
Agrippa, Duretus, Maginus, Origen, and Argol? Do not Christians and Heathens, and Jews and
Gentiles, and poets and philosophers, unite in allowing the starry influences?'

'Communis error--it is a general mistake,' answered the inflexible Dominie Sampson.

'Not so,' replied the young Englishman; 'it is a general and well- grounded belief.'

'It is the resource of cheaters, knaves, and cozeners,' said Sampson.

'Abusus non tollit usum.--The abuse of anything doth not abrogate the lawful use thereof.'

During this discussion Ellangowan was somewhat like a woodcock caught in his own springe. He
turned his face alternately from the one spokesman to the other, and began, from the gravity
with which Mannering plied his adversary, and the learning which he displayed in the controversy,
to give him credit for being half serious. As for Meg, she fixed her bewildered eyes upon the
astrologer, overpowered by a jargon more mysterious than her own.

Mannering pressed his advantage, and ran over all the hard terms of art which a tenacious memory
supplied, and which, from circumstances hereafter to be noticed, had been familiar to him in
early youth.

Signs and planets, in aspects sextile, quartile, trine, conjoined, or opposite; houses of heaven,
with their cusps, hours, and minutes; almuten, almochoden, anabibazon, catabibazon; a thousand
terms of equal sound and significance, poured thick and threefold upon the unshrinking Dominie,
whose stubborn incredulity bore him out against the pelting of this pitiless storm.

At length the joyful annunciation that the lady had presented her husband with a fine boy,
and was (of course) as well as could be expected, broke off this intercourse. Mr. Bertram hastened
to the lady's apartment, Meg Merrilies descended to the kitchen to secure her share of the
groaning malt and the 'ken-no,' [Footnote: See Note i.] and Mannering, after looking at his
watch, and noting with great exactness the hour and minute of the birth, requested, with becoming
gravity, that the Dominie would conduct him to some place where he might have a view of the
heavenly bodies.

The schoolmaster, without further answer, rose and threw open a door half sashed with glass,
which led to an old-fashioned terrace-walk behind the modern house, communicating with the
platform on which the ruins of the ancient castle were situated. The wind had arisen, and swept
before it the clouds which had formerly obscured the sky. The moon was high, and at the full,
and all the lesser satellites of heaven shone forth in cloudless effulgence. The scene which
their light presented to Mannering was in the highest degree unexpected and striking.

We have observed, that in the latter part of his journey our traveller approached the sea-shore,
without being aware how nearly. He now perceived that the ruins of Ellangowan Castle were situated
upon a promontory, or projection of rock, which formed one side of a small and placid bay on
the sea-shore. The modern mansion was placed lower, though closely adjoining, and the ground
behind it descended to the sea by a small swelling green bank, divided into levels by natural
terraces, on which grew some old trees, and terminating upon the white sand. The other side
of the bay, opposite to the old castle, was a sloping and varied promontory, covered chiefly
with copsewood, which on that favoured coast grows almost within water-mark. A fisherman's
cottage peeped from among the trees. Even at this dead hour of night there were lights moving
upon the shore, probably occasioned by the unloading a smuggling lugger from the Isle of Man
which was lying in the bay. On the light from the sashed door of the house being observed,
a halloo from the vessel of 'Ware hawk! Douse the glim!' alarmed those who were on shore, and
the lights instantly disappeared.

It was one hour after midnight, and the prospect around was lovely. The grey old towers of
the ruin, partly entire, partly broken, here bearing the rusty weather-stains of ages, and
there partially mantled with ivy, stretched along the verge of the dark rock which rose on
Mannering's right hand. In his front was the quiet bay, whose little waves, crisping and sparkling
to the moonbeams, rolled successively along its surface, and dashed with a soft and murmuring
ripple against the silvery beach. To the left the woods advanced far into the ocean, waving
in the moonlight along ground of an undulating and varied form, and presenting those varieties
of light and shade, and that interesting combination of glade and thicket, upon which the eye
delights to rest, charmed with what it sees, yet curious to pierce still deeper into the intricacies
of the woodland scenery. Above rolled the planets, each, by its own liquid orbit of light,
distinguished from the inferior or more distant stars. So strangely can imagination deceive
even those by whose volition it has been excited, that Mannering, while gazing upon these brilliant
bodies, was half inclined to believe in the influence ascribed to them by superstition over
human events.

Such musings soon gave way to others. 'Alas!' he muttered, 'my good old tutor, who used to
enter so deep into the controversy between Heydon and Chambers on the subject of astrology,
he would have looked upon the scene with other eyes, and would have seriously endeavoured to
discover from the respective positions of these luminaries their probable effects on the destiny
of the new- born infant, as if the courses or emanations of the stars superseded, or at least
were co-ordinate with, Divine Providence. Well, rest be with him! he instilled into me enough
of knowledge for erecting a scheme of nativity, and therefore will I presently go about it.'
So saying, and having noted the position of the principal planetary bodies, Guy Mannering returned
to the house. The Laird met him in the parlour, and, acquainting him with great glee that the
boy was a fine healthy little fellow, seemed rather disposed to press further conviviality.
He admitted, however, Mannering's plea of weariness, and, conducting him to his sleeping apartment,
left him to repose for the evening.

         COLERIDGE, from SCHILLER

The belief in astrology was almost universal in the middle of the seventeenth century; it began
to waver and become doubtful towards the close of that period, and in the beginning of the
eighteenth the art fell into general disrepute, and even under general ridicule. Yet it still
retained many partizans even in the seats of learning. Grave and studious men were both to
relinquish the calculations which had early become the principal objects of their studies,
and felt reluctant to descend from the predominating height to which a supposed insight into
futurity, by the power of consulting abstract influences and conjunctions, had exalted them
over the rest of mankind.

Among those who cherished this imaginary privilege with undoubting faith was an old clergyman
with whom Mannering was placed during his youth. He wasted his eyes in observing the stars,
and his brains in calculations upon their various combinations. His pupil, in early youth,
naturally caught some portion of his enthusiasm, and laboured for a time to make himself master
of the technical process of astrological research; so that, before he became convinced of its
absurdity, William Lilly himself would have allowed him 'a curious fancy and piercing judgment
in resolving a question of nativity.'

On the present occasion he arose as early in the morning as the shortness of the day permitted,
and proceeded to calculate the nativity of the young heir of Ellangowan. He undertook the task
secundum artem, as well to keep up appearances as from a sort of curiosity to know whether
he yet remembered, and could practise, the imaginary science. He accordingly erected his scheme,
or figure of heaven, divided into its twelve houses, placed the planets therein according to
the ephemeris, and rectified their position to the hour and moment of the nativity. Without
troubling our readers with the general prognostications which judicial astrology would have
inferred from these circumstances, in this diagram there was one significator which pressed
remarkably upon our astrologer's attention. Mars, having dignity in the cusp of the twelfth
house, threatened captivity or sudden and violent death to the native; and Mannering, having
recourse to those further rules by which diviners pretend to ascertain the vehemency of this
evil direction, observed from the result that three periods would be particularly hazardous--his
fifth, his tenth, his twenty-first year.

It was somewhat remarkable that Mannering had once before tried a similar piece of foolery
at the instance of Sophia Wellwood, the young lady to whom he was attached, and that a similar
conjunction of planetary influence threatened her with death or imprisonment in her thirty-ninth
year. She was at this time eighteen; so that, according to the result of the scheme in both
cases, the same year threatened her with the same misfortune that was presaged to the native
or infant whom that night had introduced into the world. Struck with this coincidence, Mannering
repeated his calculations; and the result approximated the events predicted, until at length
the same month, and day of the month, seemed assigned as the period of peril to both.

It will be readily believed that, in mentioning this circumstance, we lay no weight whatever
upon the pretended information thus conveyed. But it often happens, such is our natural love
for the marvellous, that we willingly contribute our own efforts to beguile our better judgments.
Whether the coincidence which I have mentioned was really one of those singular chances which
sometimes happen against all ordinary calculations; or whether Mannering, bewildered amid the
arithmetical labyrinth and technical jargon of astrology, had insensibly twice followed the
same clue to guide him out of the maze; or whether his imagination, seduced by some point of
apparent resemblance, lent its aid to make the similitude between the two operations more exactly
accurate than it might otherwise have been, it is impossible to guess; but the impression upon
his mind that the results exactly corresponded was vividly and indelibly strong.

He could not help feeling surprise at a coincidence so singular and unexpected. 'Does the devil
mingle in the dance, to avenge himself for our trifling with an art said to be of magical origin?
Or is it possible, as Bacon and Sir Thomas Browne admit, that there is some truth in a sober
and regulated astrology, and that the influence of the stars is not to be denied, though the
due application of it by the knaves who pretend to practise the art is greatly to be suspected?'
A moment's consideration of the subject induced him to dismiss this opinion as fantastical,
and only sanctioned by those learned men either because they durst not at once shock the universal
prejudices of their age, or because they themselves were not altogether freed from the contagious
influence of a prevailing superstition. Yet the result of his calculations in these two instances
left so unpleasing an impression on his mind that, like Prospero, he mentally relinquished
his art, and resolved, neither in jest nor earnest, ever again to practise judicial astrology.

He hesitated a good deal what he should say to the Laird of Ellangowan concerning the horoscope
of his first-born; and at length resolved plainly to tell him the judgment which he had formed,
at the same time acquainting him with the futility of the rules of art on which he had proceeded.
With this resolution he walked out upon the terrace.

If the view of the scene around Ellangowan had been pleasing by moonlight, it lost none of
its beauty by the light of the morning sun. The land, even in the month of November, smiled
under its influence. A steep but regular ascent led from the terrace to the neighbouring eminence,
and conducted Mannering to the front of the old castle. It consisted of two massive round towers
projecting deeply and darkly at the extreme angles of a curtain, or flat wall, which united
them, and thus protecting the main entrance, that opened through a lofty arch in the centre
of the curtain into the inner court of the castle. The arms of the family, carved in freestone,
frowned over the gateway, and the portal showed the spaces arranged by the architect for lowering
the portcullis and raising the drawbridge. A rude farm-gate, made of young fir-trees nailed
together, now formed the only safeguard of this once formidable entrance. The esplanade in
front of the castle commanded a noble prospect.

The dreary scene of desolation through which Mannering's road had lain on the preceding evening
was excluded from the view by some rising ground, and the landscape showed a pleasing alternation
of hill and dale, intersected by a river, which was in some places visible, and hidden in others,
where it rolled betwixt deep and wooded banks. The spire of a church and the appearance of
some houses indicated the situation of a village at the place where the stream had its junction
with the ocean. The vales seemed well cultivated, the little inclosures into which they were
divided skirting the bottom of the hills, and sometimes carrying their lines of straggling
hedgerows a little way up the ascent. Above these were green pastures, tenanted chiefly by
herds of black cattle, then the staple commodity of the country, whose distant low gave no
unpleasing animation to the landscape. The remoter hills were of a sterner character, and,
at still greater distance, swelled into mountains of dark heath, bordering the horizon with
a screen which gave a defined and limited boundary to the cultivated country, and added at
the same time the pleasing idea that it was sequestered and solitary. The sea-coast, which
Mannering now saw in its extent, corresponded in variety and beauty with the inland view. In
some places it rose into tall rocks, frequently crowned with the ruins of old buildings, towers,
or beacons, which, according to tradition, were placed within sight of each other, that, in
times of invasion or civil war, they might communicate by signal for mutual defence and protection.
Ellangowan Castle was by far the most extensive and important of these ruins, and asserted
from size and situation the superiority which its founders were said once to have possessed
among the chiefs and nobles of the district. In other places the shore was of a more gentle
description, indented with small bays, where the land sloped smoothly down, or sent into the
sea promontories covered with wood.

A scene so different from what last night's journey had presaged produced a proportional effect
upon Mannering. Beneath his eye lay the modern house--an awkward mansion, indeed, in point
of architecture, but well situated, and with a warm, pleasant exposure. 'How happily,' thought
our hero, 'would life glide on in such a retirement! On the one hand, the striking remnants
of ancient grandeur, with the secret consciousness of family pride which they inspire; on the
other, enough of modern elegance and comfort to satisfy every moderate wish. Here then, and
with thee, Sophia!'

We shall not pursue a lover's day-dream any farther. Mannering stood a minute with his arms
folded, and then turned to the ruined castle.

On entering the gateway, he found that the rude magnificence of the inner court amply corresponded
with the grandeur of the exterior. On the one side ran a range of windows lofty and large,
divided by carved mullions of stone, which had once lighted the great hall of the castle; on
the other were various buildings of different heights and dates, yet so united as to present
to the eye a certain general effect of uniformity of front. The doors and windows were ornamented
with projections exhibiting rude specimens of sculpture and tracery, partly entire and partly
broken down, partly covered by ivy and trailing plants, which grew luxuriantly among the ruins.
That end of the court which faced the entrance had also been formerly closed by a range of
buildings; but owing, it was said, to its having been battered by the ships of the Parliament
under Deane, during the long civil war, this part of the castle was much more ruinous than
the rest, and exhibited a great chasm, through which Mannering could observe the sea, and the
little vessel (an armed lugger), which retained her station in the centre of the bay. [Footnote:
The outline of the above description, as far as the supposed ruins are concerned, will be found
somewhat to resemble the noble remains of Carlaverock Castle, six or seven miles from Dumfries,
and near to Lochar Moss.] While Mannering was gazing round the ruins, he heard from the interior
of an apartment on the left hand the voice of the gipsy he had seen on the preceding evening.
He soon found an aperture through which he could observe her without being himself visible;
and could not help feeling that her figure, her employment, and her situation conveyed the
exact impression of an ancient sibyl.

She sate upon a broken corner-stone in the angle of a paved apartment, part of which she had
swept clean to afford a smooth space for the evolutions of her spindle. A strong sunbeam through
a lofty and narrow window fell upon her wild dress and features, and afforded her light for
her occupation; the rest of the apartment was very gloomy. Equipt in a habit which mingled
the national dress of the Scottish common people with something of an Eastern costume, she
spun a thread drawn from wool of three different colours, black, white, and grey, by assistance
of those ancient implements of housewifery now almost banished from the land, the distaff and
spindle. As she spun, she sung what seemed to be a charm. Mannering, after in vain attempting
to make himself master of the exact words of her song, afterwards attempted the following paraphrase
of what, from a few intelligible phrases, he concluded to be its purport:--

     Twist ye, twine ye! even so
     Mingle shades of joy and woe,
     Hope, and fear, and peace, and strife,
     In the thread of human life.

     While the mystic twist is spinning,
     And the infant's life beginning,
     Dimly seen through twilight bending,
     Lo, what varied shapes attending!

     Passions wild, and Follies vain,
     Pleasures soon exchanged for pain,
     Doubt, and Jealousy, and Fear
     In the magic dance appear.

     Now they wax, and now they dwindle,
     Whirling with the whirling spindle.
     Twist ye, twine ye! even so
     Mingle human bliss and woe.

Ere our translator, or rather our free imitator, had arranged these stanzas in his head, and
while he was yet hammering out a rhyme for DWINDLE, the task of the sibyl was accomplished,
or her wool was expended. She took the spindle, now charged with her labours, and, undoing
the thread gradually, measured it by casting it over her elbow and bringing each loop round
between her forefinger and thumb. When she had measured it out, she muttered to herself--'A
hank, but not a haill ane--the full years o' three score and ten, but thrice broken, and thrice
to OOP (i.e. to unite); he'll be a lucky lad an he win through wi't.'

Our hero was about to speak to the prophetess, when a voice, hoarse as the waves with which
it mingled, hallooed twice, and with increasing impatience--'Meg, Meg Merrilies! Gipsy--hag--
tausend deyvils!'

'I am coming, I am coming, Captain,' answered Meg; and in a moment or two the impatient commander
whom she addressed made his appearance from the broken part of the ruins.

He was apparently a seafaring man, rather under the middle size, and with a countenance bronzed
by a thousand conflicts with the north-east wind. His frame was prodigiously muscular, strong,
and thick-set; so that it seemed as if a man of much greater height would have been an inadequate
match in any close personal conflict. He was hard-favoured, and, which was worse, his face
bore nothing of the insouciance, the careless, frolicsome jollity and vacant curiosity, of
a sailor on shore. These qualities, perhaps, as much as any others, contribute to the high
popularity of our seamen, and the general good inclination which our society expresses towards
them. Their gallantry, courage, and hardihood are qualities which excite reverence, and perhaps
rather humble pacific landsmen in their presence; and neither respect nor a sense of humiliation
are feelings easily combined with a familiar fondness towards those who inspire them. But the
boyish frolics, the exulting high spirits, the unreflecting mirth of a sailor when enjoying
himself on shore, temper the more formidable points of his character. There was nothing like
these in this man's face; on the contrary, a surly and even savage scowl appeared to darken
features which would have been harsh and unpleasant under any expression or modification. 'Where
are you, Mother Deyvilson?' he said, with somewhat of a foreign accent, though speaking perfectly
good English. 'Donner and blitzen! we have been staying this half- hour. Come, bless the good
ship and the voyage, and be cursed to ye for a hag of Satan!'

At this moment he noticed Mannering, who, from the position which he had taken to watch Meg
Merrilies's incantations, had the appearance of some one who was concealing himself, being
half hidden by the buttress behind which he stood. The Captain, for such he styled himself,
made a sudden and startled pause, and thrust his right hand into his bosom between his jacket
and waistcoat as if to draw some weapon. 'What cheer, brother? you seem on the outlook, eh?'
Ere Mannering, somewhat struck by the man's gesture and insolent tone of voice, had made any
answer, the gipsy emerged from her vault and joined the stranger. He questioned her in an undertone,
looking at Mannering--'A shark alongside, eh?'

She answered in the same tone of under-dialogue, using the cant language of her tribe--'Cut
ben whids, and stow them; a gentry cove of the ken.' [Footnote: Meaning--Stop your uncivil
language; that is a gentleman from the house below.]

The fellow's cloudy visage cleared up. 'The top of the morning to you, sir; I find you are
a visitor of my friend Mr. Bertram. I beg pardon, but I took you for another sort of a person.'

Mannering replied, 'And you, sir, I presume, are the master of that vessel in the bay?'

'Ay, ay, sir; I am Captain Dirk Hatteraick, of the Yungfrauw Hagenslaapen, well known on this
coast; I am not ashamed of my name, nor of my vessel--no, nor of my cargo neither for that matter.'

'I daresay you have no reason, sir.'

'Tausend donner, no; I'm all in the way of fair trade. Just loaded yonder at Douglas, in the
Isle of Man--neat cogniac--real hyson and souchong--Mechlin lace, if you want any--right cogniac--we
bumped ashore a hundred kegs last night.'

'Really, sir, I am only a traveller, and have no sort of occasion for anything of the kind
at present.'

'Why, then, good-morning to you, for business must be minded-- unless ye'll go aboard and take
schnaps; you shall have a pouch- full of tea ashore. Dirk Hatteraick knows how to be civil.'

There was a mixture of impudence, hardihood, and suspicious fear about this man which was inexpressibly
disgusting. His manners were those of a ruffian, conscious of the suspicion attending his character,
yet aiming to bear it down by the affectation of a careless and hardy familiarity. Mannering
briefly rejected his proffered civilities; and, after a surly good-morning, Hatteraick retired
with the gipsy to that part of the ruins from which he had first made his appearance. A very
narrow staircase here went down to the beach, intended probably for the convenience of the
garrison during a siege. By this stair the couple, equally amiable in appearance and respectable
by profession, descended to the sea- side. The soi-disant captain embarked in a small boat
with two men, who appeared to wait for him, and the gipsy remained on the shore, reciting or
singing, and gesticulating with great vehemence.

CHAPTER V

     You have fed upon my seignories,
     Dispark'd my parks, and fell'd my forest woods,
     From mine own windows torn my household coat,
     Razed out my impress, leaving me no sign,
     Save men's opinions and my living blood,
     To show the world I am a gentleman.

          Richard II.

When the boat which carried the worthy captain on board his vessel had accomplished that task,
the sails began to ascend, and the ship was got under way. She fired three guns as a salute
to the house of Ellangowan, and then shot away rapidly before the wind, which blew off shore,
under all the sail she could crowd.

'Ay, ay,' said the Laird, who had sought Mannering for some time, and now joined him, 'there
they go--there go the free-traders-- there go Captain Dirk Hatteraick and the Yungfrauw Hagenslaapen,
half Manks, half Dutchman, half devil! run out the boltsprit, up mainsail, top and top-gallant
sails, royals, and skyscrapers, and away--follow who can! That fellow, Mr. Mannering, is the
terror of all the excise and custom-house cruisers; they can make nothing of him; he drubs
them, or he distances them;--and, speaking of excise, I come to bring you to breakfast; and
you shall have some tea, that--'

Mannering by this time was aware that one thought linked strangely on to another in the concatenation
of worthy Mr. Bertram's ideas,

     Like orient pearls at random strung;

and therefore, before the current of his associations had drifted farther from the point he
had left, he brought him back by some inquiry about Dirk Hatteraick.

'O he's a--a--gude sort of blackguard fellow eneugh; naebody cares to trouble him--smuggler,
when his guns are in ballast--privateer, or pirate, faith, when he gets them mounted. He has
done more mischief to the revenue folk than ony rogue that ever came out of Ramsay.'

'But, my good sir, such being his character, I wonder he has any protection and encouragement
on this coast.'

'Why, Mr. Mannering, people must have brandy and tea, and there's none in the country but what
comes this way; and then there's short accounts, and maybe a keg or two, or a dozen pounds,
left at your stable-door, instead of a d--d lang account at Christmas from Duncan Robb, the
grocer at Kippletringan, who has aye a sum to make up, and either wants ready money or a short-dated
bill. Now, Hatteraick will take wood, or he'll take bark, or he'll take barley, or he'll take
just what's convenient at the time. I'll tell you a gude story about that. There was ance a
laird--that's Macfie of Gudgeonford,--he had a great number of kain hens-- that's hens that
the tenant pays to the landlord, like a sort of rent in kind. They aye feed mine very ill;
Luckie Finniston sent up three that were a shame to be seen only last week, and yet she has
twelve bows sowing of victual; indeed her goodman, Duncan Finniston--that's him that's gone--(we
must all die, Mr. Mannering, that's ower true)--and, speaking of that, let us live in the meanwhile,
for here's breakfast on the table, and the Dominie ready to say the grace.'

The Dominie did accordingly pronounce a benediction, that exceeded in length any speech which
Mannering had yet heard him utter. The tea, which of course belonged to the noble Captain Hatteraick's
trade, was pronounced excellent. Still Mannering hinted, though with due delicacy, at the risk
of encouraging such desperate characters. 'Were it but in justice to the revenue, I should
have supposed--'

'Ah, the revenue lads'--for Mr. Bertram never embraced a general or abstract idea, and his
notion of the revenue was personified in the commissioners, surveyors, comptrollers, and riding
officers whom he happened to know--'the revenue lads can look sharp eneugh out for themselves,
no ane needs to help them; and they have a' the soldiers to assist them besides; and as to
justice--you'll be surprised to hear it, Mr. Mannering, but I am not a justice of peace!'

Mannering assumed the expected look of surprise, but thought within himself that the worshipful
bench suffered no great deprivation from wanting the assistance of his good-humoured landlord.
Mr. Bertram had now hit upon one of the few subjects on which he felt sore, and went on with
some energy.

'No, sir, the name of Godfrey Bertram of Ellangowan is not in the last commission, though there's
scarce a carle in the country that has a plough-gate of land, but what he must ride to quarter-
sessions and write J.P. after his name. I ken fu' weel whom I am obliged to--Sir Thomas Kittlecourt
as good as tell'd me he would sit in my skirts if he had not my interest at the last election;
and because I chose to go with my own blood and third cousin, the Laird of Balruddery, they
keepit me off the roll of freeholders; and now there comes a new nomination of justices, and
I am left out! And whereas they pretend it was because I let David Mac- Guffog, the constable,
draw the warrants, and manage the business his ain gate, as if I had been a nose o' wax, it's
a main untruth; for I granted but seven warrants in my life, and the Dominie wrote every one
of them--and if it had not been that unlucky business of Sandy Mac-Gruthar's, that the constables
should have keepit twa or three days up yonder at the auld castle, just till they could get
conveniency to send him to the county jail--and that cost me eneugh o' siller. But I ken what
Sir Thomas wants very weel--it was just sic and siclike about the seat in the kirk o' Kilmagirdle--was
I not entitled to have the front gallery facing the minister, rather than Mac-Crosskie of Creochstone,
the son of Deacon Mac-Crosskie, the Dumfries weaver?'

Mannering expressed his acquiescence in the justice of these various complaints.

'And then, Mr. Mannering, there was the story about the road and the fauld-dike. I ken Sir
Thomas was behind there, and I said plainly to the clerk to the trustees that I saw the cloven
foot, let them take that as they like. Would any gentleman, or set of gentlemen, go and drive
a road right through the corner of a fauld-dike and take away, as my agent observed to them,
like twa roods of gude moorland pasture? And there was the story about choosing the collector
of the cess--'

'Certainly, sir, it is hard you should meet with any neglect in a country where, to judge from
the extent of their residence, your ancestors must have made a very important figure.'

'Very true, Mr. Mannering; I am a plain man and do not dwell on these things, and I must needs
say I have little memory for them; but I wish ye could have heard my father's stories about
the auld fights of the Mac-Dingawaies--that's the Bertrams that now is--wi' the Irish and wi'
the Highlanders that came here in their berlings from Ilay and Cantire; and how they went to
the Holy Land--that is, to Jerusalem and Jericho, wi' a' their clan at their heels-- they had
better have gaen to Jamaica, like Sir Thomas Kittlecourt's uncle--and how they brought hame
relics like those that Catholics have, and a flag that's up yonder in the garret. If they had
been casks of muscavado and puncheons of rum it would have been better for the estate at this
day; but there's little comparison between the auld keep at Kittlecourt and the castle o' Ellangowan;
I doubt if the keep's forty feet of front. But ye make no breakfast, Mr. Mannering; ye're no
eating your meat; allow me to recommend some of the kipper. It was John Hay that catcht it,
Saturday was three weeks, down at the stream below Hempseed ford,' etc. etc. etc.

The Laird, whose indignation had for some time kept him pretty steady to one topic, now launched
forth into his usual roving style of conversation, which gave Mannering ample time to reflect
upon the disadvantages attending the situation which an hour before he had thought worthy of
so much envy. Here was a country gentleman, whose most estimable quality seemed his perfect
good- nature, secretly fretting himself and murmuring against others for causes which, compared
with any real evil in life, must weigh like dust in the balance. But such is the equal distribution
of Providence. To those who lie out of the road of great afflictions are assigned petty vexations
which answer all the purpose of disturbing their serenity; and every reader must have observed
that neither natural apathy nor acquired philosophy can render country gentlemen insensible
to the grievances which occur at elections, quarter-sessions, and meetings of trustees.

Curious to investigate the manners of the country, Mannering took the advantage of a pause
in good Mr. Bertram's string of stories to inquire what Captain Hatteraick so earnestly wanted
with the gipsy woman.

'O, to bless his ship, I suppose. You must know, Mr. Mannering, that these free-traders, whom
the law calls smugglers, having no religion, make it all up in superstition; and they have
as many spells and charms and nonsense--'

'Vanity and waur!' said the Dominie;' it is a trafficking with the Evil One. Spells, periapts,
and charms are of his device-- choice arrows out of Apollyon's quiver.'

'Hold your peace, Dominie; ye're speaking for ever'--by the way, they were the first words
the poor man had uttered that morning, excepting that he said grace and returned thanks--'Mr.
Mannering cannot get in a word for ye! And so, Mr. Mannering, talking of astronomy and spells
and these matters, have ye been so kind as to consider what we were speaking about last night?'

'I begin to think, Mr. Bertram, with your worthy friend here, that I have been rather jesting
with edge-tools; and although neither you nor I, nor any sensible man, can put faith in the
predictions of astrology, yet, as it has sometimes happened that inquiries into futurity, undertaken
in jest, have in their results produced serious and unpleasant effects both upon actions and
characters, I really wish you would dispense with my replying to your question.'

It was easy to see that this evasive answer only rendered the Laird's curiosity more uncontrollable.
Mannering, however, was determined in his own mind not to expose the infant to the inconveniences
which might have arisen from his being supposed the object of evil prediction. He therefore
delivered the paper into Mr. Bertram's hand, and requested him to keep it for five years with
the seal unbroken, until the month of November was expired. After that date had intervened
he left him at liberty to examine the writing, trusting that, the first fatal period being
then safely overpassed, no credit would be paid to its farther contents. This Mr. Bertram was
content to promise, and Mannering, to ensure his fidelity, hinted at misfortunes which would
certainly take place if his injunctions were neglected. The rest of the day, which Mannering,
by Mr. Bertram's invitation, spent at Ellangowan, passed over without anything remarkable;
and on the morning of that which followed the traveller mounted his palfrey, bade a courteous
adieu to his hospitable landlord and to his clerical attendant, repeated his good wishes for
the prosperity of the family, and then, turning his horse's head towards England, disappeared
from the sight of the inmates of Ellangowan. He must also disappear from that of our readers,
for it is to another and later period of his life that the present narrative relates. His horse,
bridle, saddle, and stirrups did not remain unnoticed. All this made a great impression upon
the mind of Mrs. Bertram, for the good lady had no small store of superstition.

Her first employment, when she became capable of a little work, was to make a small velvet
bag for the scheme of nativity which she had obtained from her husband. Her fingers itched
to break the seal, but credulity proved stronger than curiosity; and she had the firmness to
inclose it, in all its integrity, within two slips of parchment, which she sewed round it to
prevent its being chafed. The whole was then put into the velvet bag aforesaid, and hung as
a charm round the neck of the infant, where his mother resolved it should remain until the
period for the legitimate satisfaction of her curiosity should arrive.

The father also resolved to do his part by the child in securing him a good education; and,
with the view that it should commence with the first dawnings of reason, Dominie Sampson was
easily induced to renounce his public profession of parish schoolmaster, make his constant
residence at the Place, and, in consideration of a sum not quite equal to the wages of a footman
even at that time, to undertake to communicate to the future Laird of Ellangowan all the erudition
which he had, and all the graces and accomplishments which--he had not indeed, but which he
had never discovered that he wanted. In this arrangement the Laird found also his private advantage,
securing the constant benefit of a patient auditor, to whom he told his stories when they were
alone, and at whose expense he could break a sly jest when he had company.

About four years after this time a great commotion took place in the county where Ellangowan
is situated.

Those who watched the signs of the times had long been of opinion that a change of ministry
was about to take place; and at length, after a due proportion of hopes, fears, and delays,
rumours from good authority and bad authority, and no authority at all; after some clubs had
drank Up with this statesman and others Down with him; after riding, and running, and posting,
and addressing, and counter-addressing, and proffers of lives and fortunes, the blow was at
length struck, the administration of the day was dissolved, and parliament, as a natural consequence,
was dissolved also.

Sir Thomas Kittlecourt, like other members in the same situation, posted down to his county,
and met but an indifferent reception. He was a partizan of the old administration; and the
friends of the new had already set about an active canvass in behalf of John Featherhead, Esq.,
who kept the best hounds and hunters in the shire. Among others who joined the standard of
revolt was Gilbert Glossin, writer in--, agent for the Laird of Ellangowan. This honest gentleman
had either been refused some favour by the old member, or, what is as probable, he had got
all that he had the most distant pretension to ask, and could only look to the other side for
fresh advancement. Mr. Glossin had a vote upon Ellangowan's property; and he was now determined
that his patron should have one also, there being no doubt which side Mr. Bertram would embrace
in the contest. He easily persuaded Ellangowan that it would be creditable to him to take the
field at the head of as strong a party as possible; and immediately went to work, making votes,
as every Scotch lawyer knows how, by splitting and subdividing the superiorities upon this
ancient and once powerful barony. These were so extensive that, by dint of clipping and paring
here, adding and eking there, and creating over-lords upon all the estate which Bertram held
of the crown, they advanced at the day of contest at the head of ten as good men of parchment
as ever took the oath of trust and possession. This strong reinforcement turned the dubious
day of battle. The principal and his agent divided the honour; the reward fell to the latter
exclusively. Mr. Gilbert Glossin was made clerk of the peace, and Godfrey Bertram had his name
inserted in a new commission of justices, issued immediately upon the sitting of the parliament.

This had been the summit of Mr. Bertram's ambition; not that he liked either the trouble or
the responsibility of the office, but he thought it was a dignity to which he was well entitled,
and that it had been withheld from him by malice prepense. But there is an old and true Scotch
proverb, 'Fools should not have chapping sticks'; that is, weapons of offence. Mr. Bertram
was no sooner possessed of the judicial authority which he had so much longed for than he began
to exercise it with more severity than mercy, and totally belied all the opinions which had
hitherto been formed of his inert good-nature. We have read somewhere of a justice of peace
who, on being nominated in the commission, wrote a letter to a bookseller for the statutes
respecting his official duty in the following orthography--'Please send the ax relating to
a gustus pease.' No doubt, when this learned gentleman had possessed himself of the axe, he
hewed the laws with it to some purpose. Mr. Bertram was not quite so ignorant of English grammar
as his worshipful predecessor; but Augustus Pease himself could not have used more indiscriminately
the weapon unwarily put into his hand.

In good earnest, he considered the commission with which he had been entrusted as a personal
mark of favour from his sovereign; forgetting that he had formerly thought his being deprived
of a privilege, or honour, common to those of his rank was the result of mere party cabal.
He commanded his trusty aid-de-camp, Dominie Sampson, to read aloud the commission; and at
the first words, 'The King has been pleased to appoint'--'Pleased!' he exclaimed in a transport
of gratitude; 'honest gentleman! I'm sure he cannot be better pleased than I am.'

Accordingly, unwilling to confine his gratitude to mere feelings or verbal expressions, he
gave full current to the new-born zeal of office, and endeavoured to express his sense of the
honour conferred upon him by an unmitigated activity in the discharge of his duty. New brooms,
it is said, sweep clean; and I myself can bear witness that, on the arrival of a new housemaid,
the ancient, hereditary, and domestic spiders who have spun their webs over the lower division
of my bookshelves (consisting chiefly of law and divinity) during the peaceful reign of her
predecessor, fly at full speed before the probationary inroads of the new mercenary. Even so
the Laird of Ellangowan ruthlessly commenced his magisterial reform, at the expense of various
established and superannuated pickers and stealers who had been his neighbours for half a century.
He wrought his miracles like a second Duke Humphrey; and by the influence of the beadle's rod
caused the lame to walk, the blind to see, and the palsied to labour. He detected poachers,
black-fishers, orchard-breakers, and pigeon-shooters; had the applause of the bench for his
reward, and the public credit of an active magistrate.

All this good had its rateable proportion of evil. Even an admitted nuisance of ancient standing
should not be abated without some caution. The zeal of our worthy friend now involved in great
distress sundry personages whose idle and mendicant habits his own lachesse had contributed
to foster, until these habits had become irreclaimable, or whose real incapacity for exertion
rendered them fit objects, in their own phrase, for the charity of all well- disposed Christians.
The 'long-remembered beggar,' who for twenty years had made his regular rounds within the neighbourhood,
received rather as an humble friend than as an object of charity, was sent to the neighbouring
workhouse. The decrepit dame, who travelled round the parish upon a hand-barrow, circulating
from house to house like a bad shilling, which every one is in haste to pass to his neighbour,--she,
who used to call for her bearers as loud, or louder, than a traveller demands post-horses,--even
she shared the same disastrous fate. The 'daft Jock,' who, half knave, half idiot, had been
the sport of each succeeding race of village children for a good part of a century, was remitted
to the county bridewell, where, secluded from free air and sunshine, the only advantages he
was capable of enjoying, he pined and died in the course of six months. The old sailor, who
had so long rejoiced the smoky rafters of every kitchen in the country by singing 'Captain
Ward' and 'Bold Admiral Benbow,' was banished from the county for no better reason than that
he was supposed to speak with a strong Irish accent. Even the annual rounds of the pedlar were
abolished by the Justice, in his hasty zeal for the administration of rural police.

These things did not pass without notice and censure. We are not made of wood or stone, and
the things which connect themselves with our hearts and habits cannot, like bark or lichen,
be rent away without our missing them. The farmer's dame lacked her usual share of intelligence,
perhaps also the self-applause which she had felt while distributing the awmous (alms), in
shape of a gowpen (handful) of oatmeal, to the mendicant who brought the news. The cottage
felt inconvenience from interruption of the petty trade carried on by the itinerant dealers.
The children lacked their supply of sugarplums and toys; the young women wanted pins, ribbons,
combs, and ballads; and the old could no longer barter their eggs for salt, snuff, and tobacco.
All these circumstances brought the busy Laird of Ellangowan into discredit, which was the
more general on account of his former popularity. Even his lineage was brought up in judgment
against him. They thought 'naething of what the like of Greenside, or Burnville, or Viewforth
might do, that were strangers in the country; but Ellangowan! that had been a name amang them
since the Mirk Monanday, and lang before--HIM to be grinding the puir at that rate! They ca'd
his grandfather the Wicked Laird; but, though he was whiles fractious aneuch, when he got into
roving company and had ta'en the drap drink, he would have scorned to gang on at this gate.
Na, na, the muckle chumlay in the Auld Place reeked like a killogie in his time, and there
were as mony puir folk riving at the banes in the court, and about the door, as there were
gentles in the ha'. And the leddy, on ilka Christmas night as it came round, gae twelve siller
pennies to ilka puir body about, in honour of the twelve apostles like. They were fond to ca'
it papistrie; but I think our great folk might take a lesson frae the papists whiles. They
gie another sort o' help to puir folk than just dinging down a saxpence in the brod on the
Sabbath, and kilting, and scourging, and drumming them a' the sax days o' the week besides.'

Such was the gossip over the good twopenny in every ale-house within three or four miles of
Ellangowan, that being about the diameter of the orbit in which our friend Godfrey Bertram,
Esq., J. P., must be considered as the principal luminary. Still greater scope was given to
evil tongues by the removal of a colony of gipsies, with one of whom our reader is somewhat
acquainted, and who had for a great many years enjoyed their chief settlement upon the estate
of Ellangowan.

CHAPTER VII

     Come, princes of the ragged regiment,
     You of the blood! PRIGS, my most upright lord,
     And these, what name or title e'er they bear,
     JARKMAN, or PATRICO, CRANKE or CLAPPER-DUDGEON,
     PRATER or ABRAM-MAN--I speak of all.

          Beggar's Bush.

Although the character of those gipsy tribes which formerly inundated most of the nations of
Europe, and which in some degree still subsist among them as a distinct people, is generally
understood, the reader will pardon my saying a few words respecting their situation in Scotland.

It is well known that the gipsies were at an early period acknowledged as a separate and independent
race by one of the Scottish monarchs, and that they were less favourably distinguished by a
subsequent law, which rendered the character of gipsy equal in the judicial balance to that
of common and habitual thief, and prescribed his punishment accordingly. Notwithstanding the
severity of this and other statutes, the fraternity prospered amid the distresses of the country,
and received large accessions from among those whom famine, oppression, or the sword of war
had deprived of the ordinary means of subsistence. They lost in a great measure by this intermixture
the national character of Egyptians, and became a mingled race, having all the idleness and
predatory habits of their Eastern ancestors, with a ferocity which they probably borrowed from
the men of the north who joined their society. They travelled in different bands, and had rules
among themselves, by which each tribe was confined to its own district. The slightest invasion
of the precincts which had been assigned to another tribe produced desperate skirmishes, in
which there was often much blood shed.

The patriotic Fletcher of Saltoun drew a picture of these banditti about a century ago, which
my readers will peruse with astonishment:--

'There are at this day in Scotland (besides a great many poor families very meanly provided
for by the church boxes, with others who, by living on bad food, fall into various diseases)
two hundred thousand people begging from door to door. These are not only no way advantageous,
but a very grievous burden to so poor a country. And though the number of them be perhaps double
to what it was formerly, by reason of this present great distress, yet in all times there have
been about one hundred thousand of those vagabonds, who have lived without any regard or subjection
either to the laws of the land or even those of God and nature ... No magistrate could ever
discover, or be informed, which way one in a hundred of these wretches died, or that ever they
were baptized. Many murders have been discovered among them; and they are not only a most unspeakable
oppression to poor tenants (who, if they give not bread or some kind of provision to perhaps
forty such villains in one day, are sure to be insulted by them), but they rob many poor people
who live in houses distant from any neighbourhood. In years of plenty, many thousands of them
meet together in the mountains, where they feast and riot for many days; and at country weddings,
markets, burials, and other the like public occasions, they are to be seen, both man and woman,
perpetually drunk, cursing, blaspheming, and fighting together.'

Notwithstanding the deplorable picture presented in this extract, and which Fletcher himself,
though the energetic and eloquent friend of freedom, saw no better mode of correcting than
by introducing a system of domestic slavery, the progress of time, and increase both of the
means of life and of the power of the laws, gradually reduced this dreadful evil within more
narrow bounds. The tribes of gipsies, jockies, or cairds--for by all these denominations such
banditti were known--became few in number, and many were entirely rooted out. Still, however,
a sufficient number remained to give, occasional alarm and constant vexation. Some rude handicrafts
were entirely resigned to these itinerants, particularly the art of trencher-making, of manufacturing
horn-spoons, and the whole mystery of the tinker. To these they added a petty trade in the
coarse sorts of earthenware. Such were their ostensible means of livelihood. Each tribe had
usually some fixed place of rendezvous, which they occasionally occupied and considered as
their standing camp, and in the vicinity of which they generally abstained from depredation.
They had even talents and accomplishments, which made them occasionally useful and entertaining.
Many cultivated music with success; and the favourite fiddler or piper of a district was often
to be found in a gipsy town. They understood all out-of-door sports, especially otter-hunting,
fishing, or finding game. They bred the best and boldest terriers, and sometimes had good pointers
for sale. In winter the women told fortunes, the men showed tricks of legerdemain; and these
accomplishments often helped to while away a weary or stormy evening in the circle of the 'farmer's
ha'.' The wildness of their character, and the indomitable pride with which they despised all
regular labour, commanded a certain awe, which was not diminished by the consideration that
these strollers were a vindictive race, and were restrained by no check, either of fear or
conscience, from taking desperate vengeance upon those who had offended them. These tribes
were, in short, the pariahs of Scotland, living like wild Indians among European settlers,
and, like them, judged of rather by their own customs, habits, and opinions, than as if they
had been members of the civilised part of the community. Some hordes of them yet remain, chiefly
in such situations as afford a ready escape either into a waste country or into another Jurisdiction.
Nor are the features of their character much softened. Their numbers, however, are so greatly
diminished that, instead of one hundred thousand, as calculated by Fletcher, it would now perhaps
be impossible to collect above five hundred throughout all Scotland.

A tribe of these itinerants, to whom Meg Merrilies appertained, had long been as stationary
as their habits permitted in a glen upon the estate of Ellangowan. They had there erected a
few huts, which they denominated their 'city of refuge,' and where, when not absent on excursions,
they harboured unmolested, as the crows that roosted in the old ash-trees around them. They
had been such long occupants that they were considered in some degree as proprietors of the
wretched shealings which they inhabited. This protection they were said anciently to have repaid
by service to the Laird in war, or more frequently, by infesting or plundering the lands of
those neighbouring barons with whom he chanced to be at feud. Latterly their services were
of a more pacific nature. The women spun mittens for the lady, and knitted boot-hose for the
Laird, which were annually presented at Christmas with great form. The aged sibyls blessed
the bridal bed of the Laird when he married, and the cradle of the heir when born. The men
repaired her ladyship's cracked china, and assisted the Laird in his sporting parties, wormed
his dogs, and cut the ears of his terrier puppies. The children gathered nuts in the woods,
and cranberries in the moss, and mushrooms on the pastures, for tribute to the Place. These
acts of voluntary service, and acknowledgments of dependence, were rewarded by protection on
some occasions, connivance on others, and broken victuals, ale, and brandy when circumstances
called for a display of generosity; and this mutual intercourse of good offices, which had
been carried on for at least two centuries, rendered the inhabitants of Derncleugh a kind of
privileged retainers upon the estate of Ellangowan. 'The knaves' were the Laird's 'exceeding
good friends'; and he would have deemed himself very ill used if his countenance could not
now and then have borne them out against the law of the country and the local magistrate. But
this friendly union was soon to be dissolved.

The community of Derncleugh, who cared for no rogues but their own, were wholly without alarm
at the severity of the Justice's proceedings towards other itinerants. They had no doubt that
he determined to suffer no mendicants or strollers in the country but what resided on his own
property, and practised their trade by his immediate permission, implied or expressed. Nor
was Mr. Bertram in a hurry to exert his newly-acquired authority at the expense of these old
settlers. But he was driven on by circumstances.

At the quarter-sessions our new Justice was publicly upbraided by a gentleman of the opposite
party in county politics, that, while he affected a great zeal for the public police, and seemed
ambitious of the fame of an active magistrate, he fostered a tribe of the greatest rogues in
the country, and permitted them to harbour within a mile of the house of Ellangowan. To this
there was no reply, for the fact was too evident and well known. The Laird digested the taunt
as he best could, and in his way home amused himself with speculations on the easiest method
of ridding himself of these vagrants, who brought a stain upon his fair fame as a magistrate.
Just as he had resolved to take the first opportunity of quarrelling with the pariahs of Derncleugh,
a cause of provocation presented itself.

Since our friend's advancement to be a conservator of the peace, he had caused the gate at
the head of his avenue, which formerly, having only one hinge, remained at all times hospitably
open--he had caused this gate, I say, to be newly hung and handsomely painted. He had also
shut up with paling, curiously twisted with furze, certain holes in the fences adjoining, through
which the gipsy boys used to scramble into the plantations to gather birds' nests, the seniors
of the village to make a short cut from one point to another, and the lads and lasses for evening
rendezvous-- all without offence taken or leave asked. But these halcyon days were now to have
an end, and a minatory inscription on one side of the gate intimated 'prosecution according
to law' (the painter had spelt it 'persecution'--l'un vaut bien l'autre) to all who should
be found trespassing on these inclosures. On the other side, for uniformity's sake, was a precautionary
annunciation of spring-guns and man-traps of such formidable powers that, said the rubrick,
with an emphatic nota bene--'if a man goes in they will break a horse's leg.'

In defiance of these threats, six well-grown gipsy boys and girls were riding cock-horse upon
the new gate, and plaiting may- flowers, which it was but too evident had been gathered within
the forbidden precincts. With as much anger as he was capable of feeling, or perhaps of assuming,
the Laird commanded them to descend;--they paid no attention to his mandate: he then began
to pull them down one after another;--they resisted, passively at least, each sturdy bronzed
varlet making himself as heavy as he could, or climbing up as fast as he was dismounted.

The Laird then called in the assistance of his servant, a surly fellow, who had immediate recourse
to his horsewhip. A few lashes sent the party a-scampering; and thus commenced the first breach
of the peace between the house of Ellangowan and the gipsies of Derncleugh.

The latter could not for some time imagine that the war was real; until they found that their
children were horsewhipped by the grieve when found trespassing; that their asses were poinded
by the ground-officer when left in the plantations, or even when turned to graze by the roadside,
against the provision of the turnpike acts; that the constable began to make curious inquiries
into their mode of gaining a livelihood, and expressed his surprise that the men should sleep
in the hovels all day, and be abroad the greater part of the night.

When matters came to this point, the gipsies, without scruple, entered upon measures of retaliation.
Ellangowan's hen-roosts were plundered, his linen stolen from the lines or bleaching-ground,
his fishings poached, his dogs kidnapped, his growing trees cut or barked. Much petty mischief
was done, and some evidently for the mischief's sake. On the other hand, warrants went forth,
without mercy, to pursue, search for, take, and apprehend; and, notwithstanding their dexterity,
one or two of the depredators were unable to avoid conviction. One, a stout young fellow, who
sometimes had gone to sea a-fishing, was handed over to the captain of the impress service
at D--; two children were soundly flogged, and one Egyptian matron sent to the house of correction.

Still, however, the gipsies made no motion to leave the spot which they had so long inhabited,
and Mr. Bertram felt an unwillingness to deprive them of their ancient 'city of refuge'; so
that the petty warfare we have noticed continued for several months, without increase or abatement
of hostilities on either side.

CHAPTER VIII

     So the red Indian, by Ontario's side,
     Nursed hardy on the brindled panther's hide,
     As fades his swarthy race, with anguish sees
     The white man's cottage rise beneath the trees;
     He leaves the shelter of his native wood,
     He leaves the murmur of Ohio's flood,
     And forward rushing in indignant grief,
     Where never foot has trod the fallen leaf,
     He bends his course where twilight reigns sublime.
     O'er forests silent since the birth of time.

          SCENES OF INFANCY.

In tracing the rise and progress of the Scottish Maroon war, we must not omit to mention that
years had rolled on, and that little Harry Bertram, one of the hardiest and most lively children
that ever made a sword and grenadier's cap of rushes, now approached his fifth revolving birthday.
A hardihood of disposition, which early developed itself, made him already a little wanderer;
he was well acquainted with every patch of lea ground and dingle around Ellangowan, and could
tell in his broken language upon what baulks grew the bonniest flowers, and what copse had
the ripest nuts. He repeatedly terrified his attendants by clambering about the ruins of the
old castle, and had more than once made a stolen excursion as far as the gipsy hamlet.

On these occasions he was generally brought back by Meg Merrilies, who, though she could not
be prevailed upon to enter the Place of Ellangowan after her nephew had been given up to the
press-gang, did not apparently extend her resentment to the child. On the contrary, she often
contrived to waylay him in his walks, sing him a gipsy song, give him a ride upon her jackass,
and thrust into his pocket a piece of gingerbread or a red-cheeked apple. This woman's ancient
attachment to the family, repelled and checked in every other direction, seemed to rejoice
in having some object on which it could yet repose and expand itself. She prophesied a hundred
times, 'that young Mr. Harry would be the pride o' the family, and there hadna been sic a sprout
frae the auld aik since the death of Arthur Mac-Dingawaie, that was killed in the battle o'
the Bloody Bay; as for the present stick, it was good for nothing but fire-wood.' On one occasion,
when the child was ill, she lay all night below the window, chanting a rhyme which she believed
sovereign as a febrifuge, and could neither be prevailed upon to enter the house nor to leave
the station she had chosen till she was informed that the crisis was over.

The affection of this woman became matter of suspicion, not indeed to the Laird, who was never
hasty in suspecting evil, but to his wife, who had indifferent health and poor spirits. She
was now far advanced in a second pregnancy, and, as she could not walk abroad herself, and
the woman who attended upon Harry was young and thoughtless, she prayed Dominie Sampson to
undertake the task of watching the boy in his rambles, when he should not be otherwise accompanied.
The Dominie loved his young charge, and was enraptured with his own success in having already
brought him so far in his learning as to spell words of three syllables. The idea of this early
prodigy of erudition being carried off by the gipsies, like a second Adam Smith,[Footnote:
The father of Economical Philosophy was, when a child, actually carried off by gipsies, and
remained some hours in their possession.] was not to be tolerated; and accordingly, though
the charge was contrary to all his habits of life, he readily undertook it, and might be seen
stalking about with a mathematical problem in his head, and his eye upon a child of five years
old, whose rambles led him into a hundred awkward situations. Twice was the Dominie chased
by a cross-grained cow, once he fell into the brook crossing at the stepping-stones, and another
time was bogged up to the middle in the slough of Lochend, in attempting to gather a water-lily
for the young Laird. It was the opinion of the village matrons who relieved Sampson on the
latter occasion, 'that the Laird might as weel trust the care o' his bairn to a potatoe bogle';
but the good Dominie bore all his disasters with gravity and serenity equally imperturbable.
'Pro-di-gi-ous!' was the only ejaculation they ever extorted from the much-enduring man.

The Laird had by this time determined to make root-and-branch work with the Maroons of Derncleugh.
The old servants shook their heads at his proposal, and even Dominie Sampson ventured upon
an indirect remonstrance. As, however, it was couched in the oracular phrase, 'Ne moveas Camerinam,'
neither the allusion, nor the language in which it was expressed, were calculated for Mr. Bertram's
edification, and matters proceeded against the gipsies in form of law. Every door in the hamlet
was chalked by the ground-officer, in token of a formal warning to remove at next term. Still,
however, they showed no symptoms either of submission or of compliance. At length the term-day,
the fatal Martinmas, arrived, and violent measures of ejection were resorted to. A strong posse
of peace-officers, sufficient to render all resistance vain, charged the inhabitants to depart
by noon; and, as they did not obey, the officers, in terms of their warrant, proceeded to unroof
the cottages, and pull down the wretched doors and windows--a summary and effectual mode of
ejection still practised in some remote parts of Scotland when a tenant proves refractory.
The gipsies for a time beheld the work of destruction in sullen silence and inactivity; then
set about saddling and loading their asses, and making preparations for their departure. These
were soon accomplished, where all had the habits of wandering Tartars; and they set forth on
their journey to seek new settlements, where their patrons should neither be of the quorum
nor custos rotulorum.

Certain qualms of feeling had deterred Ellangowan from attending in person to see his tenants
expelled. He left the executive part of the business to the officers of the law, under the
immediate direction of Frank Kennedy, a supervisor, or riding-officer, belonging to the excise,
who had of late become intimate at the Place, and of whom we shall have more to say in the
next chapter. Mr. Bertram himself chose that day to make a visit to a friend at some distance.
But it so happened, notwithstanding his precautions, that he could not avoid meeting his late
tenants during their retreat from his property.

It was in a hollow way, near the top of a steep ascent, upon the verge of the Ellangowan estate,
that Mr. Bertram met the gipsy procession. Four or five men formed the advanced guard, wrapped
in long loose great-coats that hid their tall slender figures, as the large slouched hats,
drawn over their brows, concealed their wild features, dark eyes, and swarthy faces. Two of
them carried long fowling-pieces, one wore a broadsword without a sheath, and all had the Highland
dirk, though they did not wear that weapon openly or ostentatiously. Behind them followed the
train of laden asses, and small carts or TUMBLERS, as they were called in that country, on
which were laid the decrepit and the helpless, the aged and infant part of the exiled community.
The women in their red cloaks and straw hats, the elder children with bare heads and bare feet,
and almost naked bodies, had the immediate care of the little caravan. The road was narrow,
running between two broken banks of sand, and Mr. Bertram's servant rode forward, smacking
his whip with an air of authority, and motioning to the drivers to allow free passage to their
betters. His signal was unattended to. He then called to the men who lounged idly on before,
'Stand to your beasts' heads, and make room for the Laird to pass.'

'He shall have his share of the road,' answered a male gipsy from under his slouched and large-brimmed
hat, and without raising his face, 'and he shall have nae mair; the highway is as free to our
cuddies as to his gelding.'

The tone of the man being sulky, and even menacing, Mr. Bertram thought it best to put his
dignity in his pocket, and pass by the procession quietly, on such space as they chose to leave
for his accommodation, which was narrow enough. To cover with an appearance of indifference
his feeling of the want of respect with which he was treated, he addressed one of the men,
as he passed him without any show of greeting, salute, or recognition--'Giles Baillie,' he
said, 'have you heard that your son Gabriel is well?' (The question respected the young man
who had been pressed.)

'If I had heard otherwise,' said the old man, looking up with a stern and menacing countenance,
'you should have heard of it too.' And he plodded on his way, tarrying no further question.
[Footnote: This anecdote is a literal fact.] When the Laird had pressed on with difficulty
among a crowd of familiar faces, which had on all former occasions marked his approach with
the reverence due to that of a superior being, but in which he now only read hatred and contempt,
and had got clear of the throng, he could not help turning his horse, and looking back to mark
the progress of their march. The group would have been an excellent subject for the pencil
of Calotte. The van had already reached a small and stunted thicket, which was at the bottom
of the hill, and which gradually hid the line of march until the last stragglers disappeared.

His sensations were bitter enough. The race, it is true, which he had thus summarily dismissed
from their ancient place of refuge, was idle and vicious; but had he endeavoured to render
them otherwise? They were not more irregular characters now than they had been while they were
admitted to consider themselves as a sort of subordinate dependents of his family; and ought
the mere circumstance of his becoming a magistrate to have made at once such a change in his
conduct towards them? Some means of reformation ought at least to have been tried before sending
seven families at once upon the wide world, and depriving them of a degree of countenance which
withheld them at least from atrocious guilt. There was also a natural yearning of heart on
parting with so many known and familiar faces; and to this feeling Godfrey Bertram was peculiarly
accessible, from the limited qualities of his mind, which sought its principal amusements among
the petty objects around him. As he was about to turn his horse's head to pursue his journey,
Meg Merrilies, who had lagged behind the troop, unexpectedly presented herself.

She was standing upon one of those high precipitous banks which, as we before noticed, overhung
the road, so that she was placed considerably higher than Ellangowan, even though he was on
horseback; and her tall figure, relieved against the clear blue sky, seemed almost of supernatural
stature. We have noticed that there was in her general attire, or rather in her mode of adjusting
it, somewhat of a foreign costume, artfully adopted perhaps for the purpose of adding to the
effect of her spells and predictions, or perhaps from some traditional notions respecting the
dress of her ancestors. On this occasion she had a large piece of red cotton cloth rolled about
her head in the form of a turban, from beneath which her dark eyes flashed with uncommon lustre.
Her long and tangled black hair fell in elf-locks from the folds of this singular head-gear.
Her attitude was that of a sibyl in frenzy, and she stretched out in her right hand a sapling
bough which seemed just pulled.

'I'll be d--d,' said the groom, 'if she has not been cutting the young ashes in the dukit park!'
The Laird made no answer, but continued to look at the figure which was thus perched above
his path.

'Ride your ways,' said the gipsy, 'ride your ways, Laird of Ellangowan; ride your ways, Godfrey
Bertram! This day have ye quenched seven smoking hearths; see if the fire in your ain parlour
burn the blyther for that. Ye have riven the thack off seven cottar houses; look if your ain
roof-tree stand the faster. Ye may stable your stirks in the shealings at Derncleugh; see that
the hare does not couch on the hearthstane at Ellangowan. Ride your ways, Godfrey Bertram;
what do ye glower after our folk for? There's thirty hearts there that wad hae wanted bread
ere ye had wanted sunkets, and spent their life-blood ere ye had scratched your finger. Yes;
there's thirty yonder, from the auld wife of an hundred to the babe that was born last week,
that ye have turned out o' their bits o' bields, to sleep with the tod and the blackcock in
the muirs! Ride your ways, Ellangowan. Our bairns are hinging at our weary backs; look that
your braw cradle at hame be the fairer spread up; not that I am wishing ill to little Harry,
or to the babe that's yet to be born--God forbid--and make them kind to the poor, and better
folk than their father! And now, ride e'en your ways; for these are the last words ye'll ever
hear Meg Merrilies speak, and this is the last reise that I'll ever cut in the bonny woods
of Ellangowan.'

So saying, she broke the sapling she held in her hand, and flung it into the road. Margaret
of Anjou, bestowing on her triumphant foes her keen-edged malediction, could not have turned
from them with a gesture more proudly contemptuous. The Laird was clearing his voice to speak,
and thrusting his hand in his pocket to find a half-crown; the gipsy waited neither for his
reply nor his donation, but strode down the hill to overtake the caravan.

Ellangowan rode pensively home; and it was remarkable that he did not mention this interview
to any of his family. The groom was not so reserved; he told the story at great length to a
full audience in the kitchen, and concluded by swearing, that 'if ever the devil spoke by the
mouth of a woman, he had spoken by that of Meg Merrilies that blessed day.'

CHAPTER IX

     Paint Scotland greeting ower her thrissle,
     Her mutchkin stoup as toom's a whistle,
     And d--n'd excisemen in a bustle,
     Seizing a stell,
     Triumphant crushin't like a mussel,
     Or lampit shell

          BURNS.

During the period of Mr. Bertram's active magistracy, he did not forget the affairs of the
revenue. Smuggling, for which the Isle of Man then afforded peculiar facilities, was general,
or rather universal, all along the southwestern coast of Scotland. Almost all the common people
were engaged in these practices; the gentry connived at them, and the officers of the revenue
were frequently discountenanced in the exercise of their duty by those who should have protected
them.

There was at this period, employed as a riding-officer or supervisor, in that part of the country
a certain Francis Kennedy, already named in our narrative--a stout, resolute, and active man,
who had made seizures to a great amount, and was proportionally hated by those who had an interest
in the fair trade, as they called the pursuit of these contraband adventurers. This person
was natural son to a gentleman of good family, owing to which circumstance, and to his being
of a jolly, convivial disposition, and singing a good song, he was admitted to the occasional
society of the gentlemen of the country, and was a member of several of their clubs for practising
athletic games, at which he was particularly expert.

At Ellangowan Kennedy was a frequent and always an acceptable guest. His vivacity relieved
Mr. Bertram of the trouble of thought, and the labour which it cost him to support a detailed
communication of ideas; while the daring and dangerous exploits which he had undertaken in
the discharge of his office formed excellent conversation. To all these revenue adventures
did the Laird of Ellangowan seriously incline, and the amusement which he derived from Kennedy's
society formed an excellent reason for countenancing and assisting the narrator in the execution
of his invidious and hazardous duty.

'Frank Kennedy,' he said, 'was a gentleman, though on the wrang side of the blanket; he was
connected with the family of Ellangowan through the house of Glengubble. The last Laird of
Glengubble would have brought the estate into the Ellangowan line; but, happening to go to
Harrigate, he there met with Miss Jean Hadaway--by the by, the Green Dragon at Harrigate is
the best house of the twa--but for Frank Kennedy, he's in one sense a gentleman born, and it's
a shame not to support him against these blackguard smugglers.'

After this league had taken place between judgment and execution, it chanced that Captain Dirk
Hatteraick had landed a cargo of spirits and other contraband goods upon the beach not far
from Ellangowan, and, confiding in the indifference with which the Laird had formerly regarded
similar infractions of the law, he was neither very anxious to conceal nor to expedite the
transaction. The consequence was that Mr. Frank Kennedy, armed with a warrant from Ellangowan,
and supported by some of the Laird's people who knew the country, and by a party of military,
poured down upon the kegs, bales, and bags, and after a desperate affray, in which severe wounds
were given and received, succeeded in clapping the broad arrow upon the articles, and bearing
them off in triumph to the next custom-house. Dirk Hatteraick vowed, in Dutch, German, and
English, a deep and full revenge, both against the gauger and his abettors; and all who knew
him thought it likely he would keep his word.

A few days after the departure of the gipsy tribe, Mr. Bertram asked his lady one morning at
breakfast whether this was not little Harry's birthday.

'Five years auld exactly, this blessed day,' answered the lady; 'so we may look into the English
gentleman's paper.'

Mr. Bertram liked to show his authority in trifles. 'No, my dear, not till to-morrow. The last
time I was at quarter-sessions the sheriff told us that DIES--that dies inceptus--in short,
you don't understand Latin, but it means that a term-day is not begun till it's ended.'

'That sounds like nonsense, my dear.'

'May be so, my dear; but it may be very good law for all that. I am sure, speaking of term-days,
I wish, as Frank Kennedy says, that Whitsunday would kill Martinmas and be hanged for the murder;
for there I have got a letter about that interest of Jenny Cairns's, and deil a tenant's been
at the Place yet wi' a boddle of rent, nor will not till Candlemas. But, speaking of Frank
Kennedy, I daresay he'll be here the day, for he was away round to Wigton to warn a king's
ship that's lying in the bay about Dirk Hatteraick's lugger being on the coast again, and he'll
be back this day; so we'll have a bottle of claret and drink little Harry's health.'

'I wish,' replied the lady, 'Frank Kennedy would let Dirk Hatteraick alane. What needs he make
himself mair busy than other folk? Cannot he sing his sang, and take his drink, and draw his
salary, like Collector Snail, honest man, that never fashes ony body? And I wonder at you,
Laird, for meddling and making. Did we ever want to send for tea or brandy frae the borough-town
when Dirk Hatteraick used to come quietly into the bay?'

'Mrs. Bertram, you know nothing of these matters. Do you think it becomes a magistrate to let
his own house be made a receptacle for smuggled goods? Frank Kennedy will show you the penalties
in the act, and ye ken yoursell they used to put their run goods into the Auld Place of Ellangowan
up by there.'

'Oh dear, Mr. Bertram, and what the waur were the wa's and the vault o' the auld castle for
having a whin kegs o' brandy in them at an orra time? I am sure ye were not obliged to ken
ony thing about it; and what the waur was the King that the lairds here got a soup o' drink
and the ladies their drap o' tea at a reasonable rate?--it's a shame to them to pit such taxes
on them!--and was na I much the better of these Flanders head and pinners that Dirk Hatteraick
sent me a' the way from Antwerp? It will be lang or the King sends me ony thing, or Frank Kennedy
either. And then ye would quarrel with these gipsies too! I expect every day to hear the barnyard's
in a low.'

'I tell you once more, my dear, you don't understand these things--and there's Frank Kennedy
coming galloping up the avenue.'

'Aweel! aweel! Ellangowan,' said the lady, raising her voice as the Laird left the room, 'I
wish ye may understand them yoursell, that's a'!'

From this nuptial dialogue the Laird joyfully escaped to meet his faithful friend, Mr. Kennedy,
who arrived in high spirits. 'For the love of life, Ellangowan,' he said, 'get up to the castle!
you'll see that old fox Dirk Hatteraick, and his Majesty's hounds in full cry after him.' So
saying, he flung his horse's bridle to a boy, and ran up the ascent to the old castle, followed
by the Laird, and indeed by several others of the family, alarmed by the sound of guns from
the sea, now distinctly heard.

On gaining that part of the ruins which commanded the most extensive outlook, they saw a lugger,
with all her canvass crowded, standing across the bay, closely pursued by a sloop of war, that
kept firing upon the chase from her bows, which the lugger returned with her stern-chasers.
'They're but at long bowls yet,' cried Kennedy, in great exultation, 'but they will be closer
by and by. D--n him, he's starting his cargo! I see the good Nantz pitching overboard, keg
after keg! That's a d--d ungenteel thing of Mr. Hatteraick, as I shall let him know by and
by. Now, now! they've got the wind of him! that's it, that's it! Hark to him! hark to him!
Now, my dogs! now, my dogs! Hark to Ranger, hark!'

'I think,' said the old gardener to one of the maids, 'the ganger's fie,' by which word the
common people express those violent spirits which they think a presage of death.

Meantime the chase continued. The lugger, being piloted with great ability, and using every
nautical shift to make her escape, had now reached, and was about to double, the headland which
formed the extreme point of land on the left side of the bay, when a ball having hit the yard
in the slings, the mainsail fell upon the deck. The consequence of this accident appeared inevitable,
but could not be seen by the spectators; for the vessel, which had just doubled the headland,
lost steerage, and fell out of their sight behind the promontory. The sloop of war crowded
all sail to pursue, but she had stood too close upon the cape, so that they were obliged to
wear the vessel for fear of going ashore, and to make a large tack back into the bay, in order
to recover sea-room enough to double the headland.

'They'll lose her, by--, cargo and lugger, one or both,' said Kennedy; 'I must gallop away
to the Point of Warroch (this was the headland so often mentioned), and make them a signal
where she has drifted to on the other side. Good-bye for an hour, Ellangowan; get out the gallon
punch-bowl and plenty of lemons. I'll stand for the French article by the time I come back,
and we'll drink the young Laird's health in a bowl that would swim the collector's yawl.' So
saying, he mounted his horse and galloped off.

About a mile from the house, and upon the verge of the woods, which, as we have said, covered
a promontory terminating in the cape called the Point of Warroch, Kennedy met young Harry Bertram,
attended by his tutor, Dominie Sampson. He had often promised the child a ride upon his galloway;
and, from singing, dancing, and playing Punch for his amusement, was a particular favourite.
He no sooner came scampering up the path, than the boy loudly claimed his promise; and Kennedy,
who saw no risk, in indulging him, and wished to tease the Dominie, in whose visage he read
a remonstrance, caught up Harry from the ground, placed him before him, and continued his route;
Sampson's 'Peradventure, Master Kennedy-' being lost in the clatter of his horse's feet. The
pedagogue hesitated a moment whether he should go after them; but Kennedy being a person in
full confidence of the family, and with whom he himself had no delight in associating, 'being
that he was addicted unto profane and scurrilous jests,' he continued his own walk at his own
pace, till he reached the Place of Ellangowan.

The spectators from the ruined walls of the castle were still watching the sloop of war, which
at length, but not without the loss of considerable time, recovered sea-room enough to weather
the Point of Warroch, and was lost to their sight behind that wooded promontory. Some time
afterwards the discharges of several cannon were heard at a distance, and, after an interval,
a still louder explosion, as of a vessel blown up, and a cloud of smoke rose above the trees
and mingled with the blue sky. All then separated on their different occasions, auguring variously
upon the fate of the smuggler, but the majority insisting that her capture was inevitable,
if she had not already gone to the bottom.

'It is near our dinner-time, my dear,' said Mrs. Bertram to her husband; 'will it be lang before
Mr. Kennedy comes back?'

'I expect him every moment, my dear,' said the Laird; 'perhaps he is bringing some of the officers
of the sloop with him.'

'My stars, Mr. Bertram! why did not ye tell me this before, that we might have had the large
round table? And then, they're a' tired o' saut meat, and, to tell you the plain truth, a rump
o' beef is the best part of your dinner. And then I wad have put on another gown, and ye wadna
have been the waur o' a clean neck- cloth yoursell. But ye delight in surprising and hurrying
one. I am sure I am no to baud out for ever against this sort of going on; but when folk's
missed, then they are moaned.'

'Pshaw, pshaw! deuce take the beef, and the gown, and table, and the neck-cloth! we shall do
all very well. Where's the Dominie, John? (to a servant who was busy about the table) where's
the Dominie and little Harry?'

'Mr. Sampson's been at hame these twa hours and mair, but I dinna think Mr. Harry cam hame
wi' him.'

'Not come hame wi' him?' said the lady; 'desire Mr. Sampson to step this way directly.'

'Mr. Sampson,' said she, upon his entrance, 'is it not the most extraordinary thing in this
world wide, that you, that have free up-putting--bed, board, and washing--and twelve pounds
sterling a year, just to look after that boy, should let him out of your sight for twa or three
hours?'

Sampson made a bow of humble acknowledgment at each pause which the angry lady made in her
enumeration of the advantages of his situation, in order to give more weight to her remonstrance,
and then, in words which we will not do him the injustice to imitate, told how Mr. Francis
Kennedy 'had assumed spontaneously the charge of Master Harry, in despite of his remonstrances
in the contrary.'

'I am very little obliged to Mr. Francis Kennedy for his pains,' said the lady, peevishly;
'suppose he lets the boy drop from his horse, and lames him? or suppose one of the cannons
comes ashore and kills him? or suppose--'

'Or suppose, my dear,' said Ellangowan, 'what is much more likely than anything else, that
they have gone aboard the sloop or the prize, and are to come round the Point with the tide?'

'And then they may be drowned,' said the lady.

'Verily,' said Sampson, 'I thought Mr. Kennedy had returned an hour since. 'I have been in
an error,' he said; 'of a surety I should have tarried for the babe.' So saying, he snatched
his bone-headed cane and hat, and hurried away towards Warroch wood faster than he was ever
known to walk before or after.

The Laird lingered some time, debating the point with the lady. At length he saw the sloop
of war again make her appearance; but, without approaching the shore, she stood away to the
westward with all her sails set, and was soon out of sight. The lady's state of timorous and
fretful apprehension was so habitual that her fears went for nothing with her lord and master;
but an appearance of disturbance and anxiety among the servants now excited his alarm, especially
when he was called out of the room, and told in private that Mr. Kennedy's horse had come to
the stable door alone, with the saddle turned round below its belly and the reins of the bridle
broken; and that a farmer had informed them in passing that there was a smuggling lugger burning
like a furnace on the other side of the Point of Warroch, and that, though he had come through
the wood, he had seen or heard nothing of Kennedy or the young Laird, 'only there was Dominie
Sampson gaun rampauging about like mad, seeking for them.'

All was now bustle at Ellangowan. The Laird and his servants, male and female, hastened to
the wood of Warroch. The tenants and cottagers in the neighbourhood lent their assistance,
partly out of zeal, partly from curiosity. Boats were manned to search the sea-shore, which,
on the other side of the Point, rose into high and indented rocks. A vague suspicion was entertained,
though too horrible to be expressed, that the child might have fallen from one of these cliffs.

The evening had begun to close when the parties entered the wood, and dispersed different ways
in quest of the boy and his companion. The darkening of the atmosphere, and the hoarse sighs
of the November wind through the naked trees, the rustling of the withered leaves which strewed
the glades, the repeated halloos of the different parties, which often drew them together in
expectation of meeting the objects of their search, gave a cast of dismal sublimity to the scene.

At length, after a minute and fruitless investigation through the wood, the searchers began
to draw together into one body, and to compare notes. The agony of the father grew beyond concealment,
yet it scarcely equalled the anguish of the tutor. 'Would to God I had died for him!' the affectionate
creature repeated, in notes of the deepest distress. Those who were less interested rushed
into a tumultuary discussion of chances and possibilities. Each gave his opinion, and each
was alternately swayed by that of the others. Some thought the objects of their search had
gone aboard the sloop; some that they had gone to a village at three miles' distance; some
whispered they might have been on board the lugger, a few planks and beams of which the tide
now drifted ashore.

At this instant a shout was heard from the beach, so loud, so shrill, so piercing, so different
from every sound which the woods that day had rung to, that nobody hesitated a moment to believe
that it conveyed tidings, and tidings of dreadful import. All hurried to the place, and, venturing
without scruple upon paths which at another time they would have shuddered to look at, descended
towards a cleft of the rock, where one boat's crew was already landed. 'Here, sirs, here! this
way, for God's sake! this way! this way!' was the reiterated cry. Ellangowan broke through
the throng which had already assembled at the fatal spot, and beheld the object of their terror.
It was the dead body of Kennedy. At first sight he seemed to have perished by a fall from the
rocks, which rose above the spot on which he lay in a perpendicular precipice of a hundred
feet above the beach. The corpse was lying half in, half out of the water; the advancing tide,
raising the arm and stirring the clothes, had given it at some distance the appearance of motion,
so that those who first discovered the body thought that life remained. But every spark had
been long extinguished.

'My bairn! my bairn!' cried the distracted father, 'where can he be?' A dozen mouths were opened
to communicate hopes which no one felt. Some one at length mentioned--the gipsies! In a moment
Ellangowan had reascended the cliffs, flung himself upon the first horse he met, and rode furiously
to the huts at Derncleugh. All was there dark and desolate; and, as he dismounted to make more
minute search, he stumbled over fragments of furniture which had been thrown out of the cottages,
and the broken wood and thatch which had been pulled down by his orders. At that moment the
prophecy, or anathema, of Meg Merrilies fell heavy on his mind. 'You have stripped the thatch
from seven cottages; see that the roof-tree of your own house stand the surer!'

'Restore,' he cried, 'restore my bairn! bring me back my son, and all shall be forgot and forgiven!'
As he uttered these words in a sort of frenzy, his eye caught a glimmering of light in one
of the dismantled cottages; it was that in which Meg Merrilies formerly resided. The light,
which seemed to proceed from fire, glimmered not only through the window, but also through
the rafters of the hut where the roofing had been torn off.

He flew to the place; the entrance was bolted. Despair gave the miserable father the strength
of ten men; he rushed against the door with such violence that it gave way before the momentum
of his weight and force. The cottage was empty, but bore marks of recent habitation: there
was fire on the hearth, a kettle, and some preparation for food. As he eagerly gazed around
for something that might confirm his hope that his child yet lived, although in the power of
those strange people, a man entered the hut.

It was his old gardener. 'O sir!' said the old man, 'such a night as this I trusted never to
live to see! ye maun come to the Place directly!'

'Is my boy found? is he alive? have ye found Harry Bertram? Andrew, have ye found Harry Bertram?'

'No, sir; but-'

'Then he is kidnapped! I am sure of it, Andrew! as sure as that I tread upon earth! She has
stolen him; and I will never stir from this place till I have tidings of my bairn!'

'O, but ye maun come hame, sir! ye maun come hame! We have sent for the Sheriff, and we'll
seta watch here a' night, in case the gipsies return; but YOU--ye maun come hame, sir, for
my lady's in the dead-thraw.'

Bertram turned a stupefied and unmeaning eye on the messenger who uttered this calamitous news;
and, repeating the words 'in the dead-thraw!' as if he could not comprehend their meaning,
suffered the old man to drag him towards his horse. During the ride home he only said, 'Wife
and bairn baith--mother and son baith,--sair, sair to abide!'

It is needless to dwell upon the new scene of agony which awaited him. The news of Kennedy's
fate had been eagerly and incautiously communicated at Ellangowan, with the gratuitous addition,
that, doubtless, 'he had drawn the young Laird over the craig with him, though the tide had
swept away the child's body; he was light, puir thing, and would flee farther into the surf.'

Mrs. Bertram heard the tidings; she was far advanced in her pregnancy; she fell into the pains
of premature labour, and, ere Ellangowan had recovered his agitated faculties, so as to comprehend
the full distress of his situation, he was the father of a female infant, and a widower.

CHAPTER X

     But see, his face is black and full of blood;
     His eye-balls farther out than when he lived,
     Staring full ghastly like a strangled man,
     His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretch d with struggling,
     His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
     And tugg'd for life, and was by strength subdued

          Henry VI, Part II

The Sheriff-depute of the county arrived at Ellangowan next morning by daybreak. To this provincial
magistrate the law of Scotland assigns judicial powers of considerable extent, and the task
of inquiring into all crimes committed within his jurisdiction, the apprehension and commitment
of suspected persons, and so forth. [Footnote: The Scottish sheriff discharges, on such occasions
as that now mentioned, pretty much the same duty as a coroner.]

The gentleman who held the office in the shire of---at the time of this catastrophe was well
born and well educated; and, though somewhat pedantic and professional in his habits, he enjoyed
general respect as an active and intelligent magistrate. His first employment was to examine
all witnesses whose evidence could throw light upon this mysterious event, and make up the
written report, proces verbal, or precognition, as it is technically called, which the practice
of Scotland has substituted for a coroner's inquest. Under the Sheriff's minute and skilful
inquiry, many circumstances appeared which seemed incompatible with the original opinion that
Kennedy had accidentally fallen from the cliffs. We shall briefly detail some of these.

The body had been deposited in a neighbouring fisher-hut, but without altering the condition
in which it was found. This was the first object of the Sheriff's examination. Though fearfully
crushed and mangled by the fall from such a height, the corpse was found to exhibit a deep
cut in the head, which, in the opinion of a skilful surgeon, must have been inflicted by a
broadsword or cutlass. The experience of this gentleman discovered other suspicious indications.
The face was much blackened, the eyes distorted, and the veins of the neck swelled. A coloured
handkerchief, which the unfortunate man had worn round his neck, did not present the usual
appearance, but was much loosened, and the knot displaced and dragged extremely tight; the
folds were also compressed, as if it had been used as a means of grappling the deceased, and
dragging him perhaps to the precipice.

On the other hand, poor Kennedy's purse was found untouched; and, what seemed yet more extraordinary,
the pistols which he usually carried when about to encounter any hazardous adventure were found
in his pockets loaded. This appeared particularly strange, for he was known and dreaded by
the contraband traders as a man equally fearless and dexterous in the use of his weapons, of
which he had given many signal proofs. The Sheriff inquired whether Kennedy was not in the
practice of carrying any other arms? Most of Mr. Bertram's servants recollected that he generally
had a couteau de chasse, or short hanger, but none such was found upon the dead body; nor could
those who had seen him on the morning of the fatal day take it upon them to assert whether
he then carried that weapon or not.

The corpse afforded no other indicia respecting the fate of Kennedy; for, though the clothes
were much displaced and the limbs dreadfully fractured, the one seemed the probable, the other
the certain, consequences of such a fall. The hands of the deceased were clenched fast, and
full of turf and earth; but this also seemed equivocal.

The magistrate then proceeded to the place where the corpse was first discovered, and made
those who had found it give, upon the spot, a particular and detailed account of the manner
in which it was lying. A large fragment of the rock appeared to have accompanied, or followed,
the fall of the victim from the cliff above. It was of so solid and compact a substance that
it had fallen without any great diminution by splintering; so that the Sheriff was enabled,
first, to estimate the weight by measurement, and then to calculate, from the appearance of
the fragment, what portion of it had been bedded into the cliff from which it had descended.
This was easily detected by the raw appearance of the stone where it had not been exposed to
the atmosphere. They then ascended the cliff, and surveyed the place from whence the stony
fragment had fallen. It seemed plain, from the appearance of the bed, that the mere weight
of one man standing upon the projecting part of the fragment, supposing it in its original
situation, could not have destroyed its balance and precipitated it, with himself, from the
cliff. At the same time, it appeared to have lain so loose that the use of a lever, or the
combined strength of three or four men, might easily have hurled it from its position. The
short turf about the brink of the precipice was much trampled, as if stamped by the heels of
men in a mortal struggle, or in the act of some violent exertion. Traces of the same kind,
less visibly marked, guided the sagacious investigator to the verge of the copsewood, which
in that place crept high up the bank towards the top of the precipice.

With patience and perseverance they traced these marks into the thickest part of the copse,
a route which no person would have voluntarily adopted, unless for the purpose of concealment.
Here they found plain vestiges of violence and struggling, from space to space. Small boughs
were torn down, as if grasped by some resisting wretch who was dragged forcibly along; the
ground, where in the least degree soft or marshy, showed the print of many feet; there were
vestiges also which might be those of human blood. At any rate it was certain that several
persons must have forced their passage among the oaks, hazels, and underwood with which they
were mingled; and in some places appeared traces as if a sack full of grain, a dead body, or
something of that heavy and solid description, had been dragged along the ground. In one part
of the thicket there was a small swamp, the clay of which was whitish, being probably mixed
with marl. The back of Kennedy's coat appeared besmeared with stains of the same colour.

At length, about a quarter of a mile from the brink of the fatal precipice, the traces conducted
them to a small open space of ground, very much trampled, and plainly stained with blood, although
withered leaves had been strewed upon the spot, and other means hastily taken to efface the
marks, which seemed obviously to have been derived from a desperate affray. On one side of
this patch of open ground was found the sufferer's naked hanger, which seemed to have been
thrown into the thicket; on the other, the belt and sheath, which appeared to have been hidden
with more leisurely care and precaution.

The magistrate caused the footprints which marked this spot to be carefully measured and examined.
Some corresponded to the foot of the unhappy victim; some were larger, some less; indicating
that at least four or five men had been busy around him. Above all, here, and here only, were
observed the vestiges of a child's foot; and as it could be seen nowhere else, and the hard
horse-track which traversed the wood of Warroch was contiguous to the spot, it was natural
to think that the boy might have escaped in that direction during the confusion. But, as he
was never heard of, the Sheriff, who made a careful entry of all these memoranda, did not suppress
his opinion, that the deceased had met with foul play, and that the murderers, whoever they
were, had possessed themselves of the person of the child Harry Bertram.

Every exertion was now made to discover the criminals. Suspicion hesitated between the smugglers
and the gipsies. The fate of Dirk Hatteraick's vessel was certain. Two men from the opposite
side of Warroch Bay (so the inlet on the southern side of the Point of Warroch is called) had
seen, though at a great distance, the lugger drive eastward, after doubling the headland, and,
as they judged from her manoeuvres, in a disabled state. Shortly after, they perceived that
she grounded, smoked, and finally took fire. She was, as one of them expressed himself, 'in
a light low' (bright flame) when they observed a king's ship, with her colours up, heave in
sight from behind the cape. The guns of the burning vessel discharged themselves as the fire
reached them; and they saw her at length blow up with a great explosion. The sloop of war kept
aloof for her own safety; and, after hovering till the other exploded, stood away southward
under a press of sail. The Sheriff anxiously interrogated these men whether any boats had left
the vessel. They could not say, they had seen none; but they might have put off in such a direction
as placed the burning vessel, and the thick smoke which floated landward from it, between their
course and the witnesses' observation.

That the ship destroyed was Dirk Hatteraick's no one doubted. His lugger was well known on
the coast, and had been expected just at this time. A letter from the commander of the king's
sloop, to whom the Sheriff made application, put the matter beyond doubt; he sent also an extract
from his log-book of the transactions of the day, which intimated their being on the outlook
for a smuggling lugger, Dirk Hatteraick master, upon the information and requisition of Francis
Kennedy, of his Majesty's excise service; and that Kennedy was to be upon the outlook on the
shore, in case Hatteraick, who was known to be a desperate fellow, and had been repeatedly
outlawed, should attempt to run his sloop aground. About nine o'clock A.M. they discovered
a sail which answered the description of Hatteraick's vessel, chased her, and, after repeated
signals to her to show colours and bring-to, fired upon her. The chase then showed Hamburgh
colours and returned the fire; and a running fight was maintained for three hours, when, just
as the lugger was doubling the Point of Warroch, they observed that the main-yard was shot
in the slings, and that the vessel was disabled. It was not in the power of the man-of-war's
men for some time to profit by this circumstance, owing to their having kept too much in shore
for doubling the headland. After two tacks, they accomplished this, and observed the chase
on fire and apparently deserted. The fire having reached some casks of spirits, which were
placed on the deck, with other combustibles, probably on purpose, burnt with such fury that
no boats durst approach the vessel, especially as her shotted guns were discharging one after
another by the heat. The captain had no doubt whatever that the crew had set the vessel on
fire and escaped in their boats. After watching the conflagration till the ship blew up, his
Majesty's sloop, the Shark, stood towards the Isle of Man, with the purpose of intercepting
the retreat of the smugglers, who, though they might conceal themselves in the woods for a
day or two, would probably take the first opportunity of endeavouring to make for this asylum.
But they never saw more of them than is above narrated.

Such was the account given by William Pritchard, master and commander of his Majesty's sloop
of war, Shark, who concluded by regretting deeply that he had not had the happiness to fall
in with the scoundrels who had had the impudence to fire on his Majesty's flag, and with an
assurance that, should he meet Mr. Dirk Hatteraick in any future cruise, he would not fail
to bring him into port under his stern, to answer whatever might be alleged against him.

As, therefore, it seemed tolerably certain that the men on board the lugger had escaped, the
death of Kennedy, if he fell in with them in the woods, when irritated by the loss of their
vessel and by the share he had in it, was easily to be accounted for. And it was not improbable
that to such brutal tempers, rendered desperate by their own circumstances, even the murder
of the child, against whose father, as having become suddenly active in the prosecution of
smugglers, Hatteraick was known to have uttered deep threats, would not appear a very heinous
crime.

Against this hypothesis it was urged that a crew of fifteen or twenty men could not have lain
hidden upon the coast, when so close a search took place immediately after the destruction
of their vessel; or, at least, that if they had hid themselves in the woods, their boats must
have been seen on the beach; that in such precarious circumstances, and when all retreat must
have seemed difficult if not impossible, it was not to be thought that they would have all
united to commit a useless murder for the mere sake of revenge. Those who held this opinion
supposed either that the boats of the lugger had stood out to sea without being observed by
those who were intent upon gazing at the burning vessel, and so gained safe distance before
the sloop got round the headland; or else that, the boats being staved or destroyed by the
fire of the Shark during the chase, the crew had obstinately determined to perish with the
vessel. What gave some countenance to this supposed act of desperation was, that neither Dirk
Hatteraick nor any of his sailors, all well-known men in the fair trade, were again seen upon
that coast, or heard of in the Isle of Man, where strict inquiry was made. On the other hand,
only one dead body, apparently that of a seaman killed by a cannon-shot, drifted ashore. So
all that could be done was to register the names, description, and appearance of the individuals
belonging to the ship's company, and offer a reward for the apprehension of them, or any one
of them, extending also to any person, not the actual murderer, who should give evidence tending
to convict those who had murdered Francis Kennedy.

Another opinion, which was also plausibly supported, went to charge this horrid crime upon
the late tenants of Derncleugh. They were known to have resented highly the conduct of the
Laird of Ellangowan towards them, and to have used threatening expressions, which every one
supposed them capable of carrying into effect. The kidnapping the child was a crime much more
consistent with their habits than with those of smugglers, and his temporary guardian might
have fallen in an attempt to protect him. Besides, it was remembered that Kennedy had been
an active agent, two or three days before, in the forcible expulsion of these people from Derncleugh,
and that harsh and menacing language had been exchanged between him and some of the Egyptian
patriarchs on that memorable occasion.

The Sheriff received also the depositions of the unfortunate father and his servant, concerning
what had passed at their meeting the caravan of gipsies as they left the estate of Ellangowan.
The speech of Meg Merrilies seemed particularly suspicious. There was, as the magistrate observed
in his law language, damnum minatum--a damage, or evil turn, threatened--and malum secutum--an
evil of the very kind predicted shortly afterwards following. A young woman, who had been gathering
nuts in Warroch wood upon the fatal day, was also strongly of opinion, though she declined
to make positive oath, that she had seen Meg Merrilies--at least a woman of her remarkable
size and appearance --start suddenly out of a thicket; she said she had called to her by name,
but, as the figure turned from her and made no answer, she was uncertain if it were the gipsy
or her wraith, and was afraid to go nearer to one who was always reckoned, in the vulgar phrase,
'no canny.' This vague story received some corroboration from the circumstance of a fire being
that evening found in the gipsy's deserted cottage. To this fact Ellangowan and his gardener
bore evidence. Yet it seemed extravagant to suppose that, had this woman been accessory to
such a dreadful crime, she would have returned, that very evening on which it was committed,
to the place of all others where she was most likely to be sought after.

Meg Merrilies was, however, apprehended and examined. She denied strongly having been either
at Derncleugh or in the wood of Warroch upon the day of Kennedy's death; and several of her
tribe made oath in her behalf, that she had never quitted their encampment, which was in a
glen about ten miles distant from Ellangowan. Their oaths were indeed little to be trusted
to; but what other evidence could be had in the circumstances? There was one remarkable fact,
and only one, which arose from her examination. Her arm appeared to be slightly wounded by
the cut of a sharp weapon, and was tied up with a handkerchief of Harry Bertram's. But the
chief of the horde acknowledged he had 'corrected her' that day with his whinger; she herself,
and others, gave the same account of her hurt; and for the handkerchief, the quantity of linen
stolen from Ellangowan during the last months of their residence on the estate easily accounted
for it, without charging Meg with a more heinous crime.

It was observed upon her examination that she treated the questions respecting the death of
Kennedy, or 'the gauger,' as she called him, with indifference; but expressed great and emphatic
scorn and indignation at being supposed capable of injuring little Harry Bertram. She was long
confined in jail, under the hope that something might yet be discovered to throw light upon
this dark and bloody transaction. Nothing, however, occurred; and Meg was at length liberated,
but under sentence of banishment from the county as a vagrant, common thief, and disorderly
person. No traces of the boy could ever be discovered; and at length the story, after making
much noise, was gradually given up as altogether inexplicable, and only perpetuated by the
name of 'The Gauger's Loup,' which was generally bestowed on the cliff from which the unfortunate
man had fallen or been precipitated.

CHAPTER XI

    ENTER TIME, AS CHORUS
    I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
    Of good and bad; that make and unfold error,
    Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
    To use my wings Impute it not a crime
    To me, or my swift passage, that I slide
    O'er sixteen years, and leave the growth untried
    Of that wide gap.

         Winter's Tale.

Our narration is now about to make a large stride, and omit a space of nearly seventeen years;
during which nothing occurred of any particular consequence with respect to the story we have
undertaken to tell. The gap is a wide one; yet if the reader's experience in life enables him
to look back on so many years, the space will scarce appear longer in his recollection than
the time consumed in turning these pages.

It was, then, in the month of November, about seventeen years after the catastrophe related
in the last chapter, that, during a cold and stormy night, a social group had closed around
the kitchen-fire of the Gordon Arms at Kippletringan, a small but comfortable inn kept by Mrs.
Mac-Candlish in that village. The conversation which passed among them will save me the trouble
of telling the few events occurring during this chasm in our history, with which it is necessary
that the reader should be acquainted.

Mrs. Mac-Candlish, throned in a comfortable easychair lined with black leather, was regaling
herself and a neighbouring gossip or two with a cup of genuine tea, and at the same time keeping
a sharp eye upon her domestics, as they went and came in prosecution of their various duties
and commissions. The clerk and precentor of the parish enjoyed at a little distance his Saturday
night's pipe, and aided its bland fumigation by an occasional sip of brandy and water. Deacon
Bearcliff, a man of great importance in the village, combined the indulgence of both parties:
he had his pipe and his tea-cup, the latter being laced with a little spirits. One or two clowns
sat at some distance, drinking their twopenny ale.

'Are ye sure the parlour's ready for them, and the fire burning clear, and the chimney no smoking?'
said the hostess to a chambermaid.

She was answered in the affirmative. 'Ane wadna be uncivil to them, especially in their distress,'
said she, turning to the Deacon.

'Assuredly not, Mrs. Mac-Candlish; assuredly not. I am sure ony sma' thing they might want
frae my shop, under seven, or eight, or ten pounds, I would book them as readily for it as
the first in the country. Do they come in the auld chaise?'

'I daresay no,' said the precentor; 'for Miss Bertram comes on the white powny ilka day to
the kirk--and a constant kirk-keeper she is--and it's a pleasure to hear her singing the psalms,
winsome young thing.'

'Ay, and the young Laird of Hazlewood rides hame half the road wi' her after sermon,' said
one of the gossips in company. 'I wonder how auld Hazlewood likes that.'

'I kenna how he may like it now,' answered another of the tea- drinkers; 'but the day has been
when Ellangowan wad hae liked as little to see his daughter taking up with their son.'

'Ay, has been,' answered the first, with somewhat of emphasis.

'I am sure, neighbour Ovens,' said the hostess, 'the Hazlewoods of Hazlewood, though they are
a very gude auld family in the county, never thought, till within these twa score o' years,
of evening themselves till the Ellangowans. Wow, woman, the Bertrams of Ellangowan are the
auld Dingawaies lang syne. There is a sang about ane o' them marrying a daughter of the King
of Man; it begins--

     Blythe Bertram's ta'en him ower the faem,
     To wed a wife, and bring her hame--

I daur say Mr. Skreigh can sing us the ballant.'

'Gudewife,' said Skreigh, gathering up his mouth, and sipping his tiff of brandy punch with
great solemnity, 'our talents were gien us to other use than to sing daft auld sangs sae near
the Sabbath day.'

'Hout fie, Mr. Skreigh; I'se warrant I hae heard you sing a blythe sang on Saturday at e'en
before now. But as for the chaise, Deacon, it hasna been out of the coach-house since Mrs.
Bertram died, that's sixteen or seventeen years sin syne. Jock Jabos is away wi' a chaise of
mine for them; I wonder he's no come back. It's pit mirk; but there's no an ill turn on the
road but twa, and the brigg ower Warroch burn is safe eneugh, if he haud to the right side.
But then there's Heavieside Brae, that's just a murder for post-cattle; but Jock kens the road
brawly.'

A loud rapping was heard at the door.

'That's no them. I dinna hear the wheels. Grizzel, ye limmer, gang to the door.'

'It's a single gentleman,' whined out Grizzel; 'maun I take him into the parlour?'

'Foul be in your feet, then; it'll be some English rider. Coming without a servant at this
time o' night! Has the hostler ta'en the horse? Ye may light a spunk o' fire in the red room.'

'I wish, ma'am,' said the traveller, entering the kitchen, 'you would give me leave to warm
myself here, for the night is very cold.'

His appearance, voice, and manner produced an instantaneous effect in his favour. He was a
handsome, tall, thin figure, dressed in black, as appeared when he laid aside his riding-coat;
his age might be between forty and fifty; his cast of features grave and interesting, and his
air somewhat military. Every point of his appearance and address bespoke the gentleman. Long
habit had given Mrs. Mac-Candlish an acute tact in ascertaining the quality of her visitors,
and proportioning her reception accordingly:--

     To every guest the appropriate speech was made,
     And every duty with distinction paid;
     Respectful, easy, pleasant, or polite--
     'Your honour's servant!' 'Mister Smith, good-night.'

On the present occasion she was low in her courtesy and profuse in her apologies. The stranger
begged his horse might be attended to: she went out herself to school the hostler.

'There was never a prettier bit o' horse-flesh in the stable o' the Gordon Arms,' said the
man, which information increased the landlady's respect for the rider. Finding, on her return,
that the stranger declined to go into another apartment (which, indeed, she allowed, would
be but cold and smoky till the fire bleezed up), she installed her guest hospitably by the
fireside, and offered what refreshment her house afforded.

'A cup of your tea, ma'am, if you will favour me.'

Mrs. Mac-Candlish bustled about, reinforced her teapot with hyson, and proceeded in her duties
with her best grace. 'We have a very nice parlour, sir, and everything very agreeable for gentlefolks;
but it's bespoke the night for a gentleman and his daughter that are going to leave this part
of the country; ane of my chaises is gane for them, and will be back forthwith. They're no
sae weel in the warld as they have been; but we're a' subject to ups and downs in this life,
as your honour must needs ken,--but is not the tobacco-reek disagreeable to your honour?'

'By no means, ma'am; I am an old campaigner, and perfectly used to it. Will you permit me to
make some inquiries about a family in this neighbourhood?'

The sound of wheels was now heard, and the landlady hurried to the door to receive her expected
guests; but returned in an instant, followed by the postilion. 'No, they canna come at no rate,
the Laird's sae ill.'

'But God help them,' said the landlady, 'the morn's the term, the very last day they can bide
in the house; a' thing's to be roupit.'

'Weel, but they can come at no rate, I tell ye; Mr. Bertram canna be moved.'

'What Mr. Bertram?' said the stranger; 'not Mr. Bertram of Ellangowan, I hope?'

'Just e'en that same, sir; and if ye be a friend o' his, ye have come at a time when he's sair
bested.'

'I have been abroad for many years,--is his health so much deranged?'

'Ay, and his affairs an' a',' said the Deacon; 'the creditors have entered into possession
o' the estate, and it's for sale; and some that made the maist by him--I name nae names, but
Mrs. Mac- Candlish kens wha I mean (the landlady shook her head significantly)--they're sairest
on him e'en now. I have a sma' matter due myself, but I would rather have lost it than gane
to turn the auld man out of his house, and him just dying.'

'Ay, but,' said the parish clerk, 'Factor Glossin wants to get rid of the auld Laird, and drive
on the sale, for fear the heir-male should cast up upon them; for I have heard say, if there
was an heir-male they couldna sell the estate for auld Ellangowan's debt.'

'He had a son born a good many years ago,' said the stranger; 'he is dead, I suppose?'

'Nae man can say for that,' answered the clerk mysteriously.

'Dead!' said the Deacon, 'I'se warrant him dead lang syne; he hasna been heard o' these twenty
years or thereby.'

'I wot weel it's no twenty years,' said the landlady; 'it's no abune seventeen at the outside
in this very month. It made an unco noise ower a' this country; the bairn disappeared the very
day that Supervisor Kennedy cam by his end. If ye kenn'd this country lang syne, your honour
wad maybe ken Frank Kennedy the Supervisor. He was a heartsome pleasant man, and company for
the best gentlemen in the county, and muckle mirth he's made in this house. I was young then,
sir, and newly married to Bailie Mac-Candlish, that's dead and gone (a sigh); and muckle fun
I've had wi' the Supervisor. He was a daft dog. O, an he could hae hauden aff the smugglers
a bit! but he was aye venturesome. And so ye see, sir, there was a king's sloop down in Wigton
Bay, and Frank Kennedy, he behoved to have her up to chase Dirk Hatteraick's lugger--ye'll
mind Dirk Hatteraick, Deacon? I daresay ye may have dealt wi' him--(the Deacon gave a sort
of acquiescent nod and humph). He was a daring chield, and he fought his ship till she blew
up like peelings of ingans; and Frank Kennedy, he had been the first man to board, and he was
flung like a quarter of a mile off, and fell into the water below the rock at Warroch Point,
that they ca' the Gauger's Loup to this day.'

'And Mr. Bertram's child,' said the stranger, 'what is all this to him?'

'Ou, sir, the bairn aye held an unco wark wi' the Supervisor; and it was generally thought
he went on board the vessel alang wi' him, as bairns are aye forward to be in mischief.'

'No, no,' said the Deacon, 'ye're clean out there, Luckie; for the young Laird was stown away
by a randy gipsy woman they ca'd Meg Merrilies--I mind her looks weel--in revenge for Ellangowan
having gar'd her be drumm'd through Kippletringan for stealing a silver spoon.'

'If ye'll forgieme, Deacon,' said the precentor, 'ye're e'en as far wrang as the gudewife.'

'And what is your edition of the story, sir?' said the stranger, turning to him with interest.

'That's maybe no sae canny to tell,' said the precentor, with solemnity.

Upon being urged, however, to speak out, he preluded with two or three large puffs of tobacco-smoke,
and out of the cloudy sanctuary which these whiffs formed around him delivered the following
legend, having cleared his voice with one or two hems, and imitating, as near as he could,
the eloquence which weekly thundered over his head from the pulpit.

'What we are now to deliver, my brethren,--hem--hem,--I mean, my good friends,--was not done
in a corner, and may serve as an answer to witch-advocates, atheists, and misbelievers of all
kinds. Ye must know that the worshipful Laird of Ellangowan was not so preceese as he might
have been in clearing his land of witches (concerning whom it is said, "Thou shalt not suffer
a witch to live"), nor of those who had familiar spirits, and consulted with divination, and
sorcery, and lots, which is the fashion with the Egyptians, as they ca' themsells, and other
unhappy bodies, in this our country. And the Laird was three years married without having a
family; and he was sae left to himsell, that it was thought he held ower muckle troking and
communing wi' that Meg Merrilies, wha was the maist notorious witch in a' Galloway and Dumfries-shire
baith.'

'Aweel, I wot there's something in that,' said Mrs. Mac-Candlish; 'I've kenn'd him order her
twa glasses o' brandy in this very house.'

'Aweel, gudewife, then the less I lee. Sae the lady was wi' bairn at last, and in the night
when she should have been delivered there comes to the door of the ha' house--the Place of
Ellangowan as they ca'd--an ancient man, strangely habited, and asked for quarters. His head,
and his legs, and his arms were bare, although it was winter time o' the year, and he had a
grey beard three- quarters lang. Weel, he was admitted; and when the lady was delivered, he
craved to know the very moment of the hour of the birth, and he went out and consulted the
stars. And when he came back he tell'd the Laird that the Evil One wad have power over the
knave-bairn that was that night born, and he charged him that the babe should be bred up in
the ways of piety, and that he should aye hae a godly minister at his elbow to pray WI' the
bairn and FOR him. And the aged man vanished away, and no man of this country ever saw mair
o' him.'

'Now, that will not pass,' said the postilion, who, at a respectful distance, was listening
to the conversation, 'begging Mr. Skreigh's and the company's pardon; there was no sae mony
hairs on the warlock's face as there's on Letter-Gae's [Footnote: The precentor is called by
Allan Ramsay, The letter-gae of haly rhyme.] ain at this moment, and he had as gude a pair
o' boots as a man need streik on his legs, and gloves too; and I should understand boots by
this time, I think.'

'Whisht, Jock,' said the landlady.

'Ay? and what do YE ken o' the matter, friend Jabos?' said the precentor, contemptuously.

'No muckle, to be sure, Mr. Skreigh, only that I lived within a penny-stane cast o' the head
o' the avenue at Ellangowan, when a man cam jingling to our door that night the young Laird
was born, and my mother sent me, that was a hafflin callant, to show the stranger the gate
to the Place, which, if he had been sic a warlock, he might hae kenn'd himsell, ane wad think;
and he was a young, weel-faured, weel-dressed lad, like an Englishman. And I tell ye he had
as gude a hat, and boots, and gloves, as ony gentleman need to have. To be sure he DID gie
an awesome glance up at the auld castle, and there WAS some spae-wark gaed on, I aye heard
that; but as for his vanishing, I held the stirrup mysell when he gaed away, and he gied me
a round half-crown. He was riding on a haick they ca'd Souple Sam, it belanged to the George
at Dumfries; it was a blood-bay beast, very ill o' the spavin; I hae seen the beast baith before
and since.'

'Aweel, aweel, Jock,' answered Mr. Skreigh, with a tone of mild solemnity, 'our accounts differ
in no material particulars; but I had no knowledge that ye had seen the man. So ye see, my
friends, that this soothsayer having prognosticated evil to the boy, his father engaged a godly
minister to be with him morn and night.'

'Ay, that was him they ca'd Dominie Sampson,' said the postilion.

'He's but a dumb dog that,' observed the Deacon; 'I have heard that he never could preach five
words of a sermon endlang, for as lang as he has been licensed.'

'Weel, but,' said the precentor, waving his hand, as if eager to retrieve the command of the
discourse, 'he waited on the young Laird by night and day. Now it chanced, when the bairn was
near five years auld, that the Laird had a sight of his errors, and determined to put these
Egyptians aff his ground, and he caused them to remove; and that Frank Kennedy, that was a
rough, swearing fellow, he was sent to turn them off. And he cursed and damned at them, and
they swure at him; and that Meg Merrilies, that was the maist powerfu' with the Enemy of Mankind,
she as gude as said she would have him, body and soul, before three days were ower his head.
And I have it from a sure hand, and that's ane wha saw it, and that's John Wilson, that was
the Laird's groom, that Meg appeared to the Laird as he was riding hame from Singleside, over
Gibbie's know, and threatened him wi' what she wad do to his family; but whether it was Meg,
or something waur in her likeness, for it seemed bigger than ony mortal creature, John could
not say.'

'Aweel,' said the postilion, 'it might be sae, I canna say against it, for I was not in the
country at the time; but John Wilson was a blustering kind of chield, without the heart of
a sprug.'

'And what was the end of all this?' said the stranger, with some impatience.

'Ou, the event and upshot of it was, sir,' said the precentor, 'that while they were all looking
on, beholding a king's ship chase a smuggler, this Kennedy suddenly brake away frae them without
ony reason that could be descried--ropes nor tows wad not hae held him--and made for the wood
of Warroch as fast as his beast could carry him; and by the way he met the young Laird and
his governor, and he snatched up the bairn, and swure, if HE was bewitched, the bairn should
have the same luck as him; and the minister followed as fast as he could, and almaist as fast
as them, for he was wonderfully swift of foot, and he saw Meg the witch, or her master in her
similitude, rise suddenly out of the ground, and claught the bairn suddenly out of the ganger's
arms; and then he rampauged and drew his sword, for ye ken a fie man and a cusser fearsna the
deil.'

'I believe that's very true,' said the postilion.

'So, sir, she grippit him, and clodded him like a stane from the sling ower the craigs of Warroch
Head, where he was found that evening; but what became of the babe, frankly I cannot say. But
he that was minister here then, that's now in a better place, had an opinion that the bairn
was only conveyed to fairy-land for a season.'

The stranger had smiled slightly at some parts of this recital, but ere he could answer the
clatter of a horse's hoofs was heard, and a smart servant, handsomely dressed, with a cockade
in his hat, bustled into the kitchen, with 'Make a little room, good people'; when, observing
the stranger, he descended at once into the modest and civil domestic, his hat sunk down by
his side, and he put a letter into his master's hands. 'The family at Ellangowan, sir, are
in great distress, and unable to receive any visits.'

'I know it,' replied his master. 'And now, madam, if you will have the goodness to allow me
to occupy the parlour you mentioned, as you are disappointed of your guests--'

'Certainly, sir,' said Mrs. Mac-Candlish, and hastened to light the way with all the imperative
bustle which an active landlady loves to display on such occasions.

'Young man,' said the Deacon to the servant, filling a glass, 'ye'll no be the waur o' this,
after your ride.'

'Not a feather, sir; thank ye, your very good health, sir.'

'And wha may your master be, friend?'

'What, the gentleman that was here? that's the famous Colonel Mannering, sir, from the East
Indies.'

'What, him we read of in the newspapers?'

'Ay, ay, just the same. It was he relieved Cuddieburn, and defended Chingalore, and defeated
the great Mahratta chief, Ram Jolli Bundleman. I was with him in most of his campaigns.'

'Lord safe us,' said the landlady; 'I must go see what he would have for supper; that I should
set him down here!'

'O, he likes that all the better, mother. You never saw a plainer creature in your life than
our old Colonel; and yet he has a spice of the devil in him too.'

The rest of the evening's conversation below stairs tending little to edification, we shall,
with the reader's leave, step up to the parlour.

CHAPTER XII

     Reputation! that's man's idol
     Set up against God, the Maker of all laws,
     Who hath commanded us we should not kill,
     And yet we say we must, for Reputation!
     What honest man can either fear his own,
     Or else will hurt another's reputation?
     Fear to do base unworthy things is valour;
     If they be done to us, to suffer them
     Is valour too.

          BEN JONSON.

The Colonel was walking pensively up and down the parlour when the officious landlady reentered
to take his commands. Having given them in the manner he thought would be most acceptable 'for
the good of the house,' be begged to detain her a moment.

'I think,' he said, 'madam, if I understood the good people right, Mr. Bertram lost his son
in his fifth year?'

'O ay, sir, there's nae doubt o' that, though there are mony idle clashes about the way and
manner, for it's an auld story now, and everybody tells it, as we were doing, their ain way
by the ingleside. But lost the bairn was in his fifth year, as your honour says, Colonel; and
the news being rashly tell'd to the leddy, then great with child, cost her her life that samyn
night; and the Laird never throve after that day, but was just careless of everything, though,
when his daughter Miss Lucy grew up, she tried to keep order within doors; but what could she
do, poor thing? So now they're out of house and hauld.'

'Can you recollect, madam, about what time of the year the child was lost?' The landlady, after
a pause and some recollection, answered, 'she was positive it was about this season'; and added
some local recollections that fixed the date in her memory as occurring about the beginning
of November 17--.

The stranger took two or three turns round the room in silence, but signed to Mrs. Mac-Candlish
not to leave it.

'Did I rightly apprehend,' he said, 'that the estate of Ellangowan is in the market?'

'In the market? It will be sell'd the morn to the highest bidder-- that's no the morn, Lord
help me! which is the Sabbath, but on Monday, the first free day; and the furniture and stocking
is to be roupit at the same time on the ground. It's the opinion of the haill country that
the sale has been shamefully forced on at this time, when there's sae little money stirring
in Scotland wi' this weary American war, that somebody may get the land a bargain. Deil be
in them, that I should say sae!'--the good lady's wrath rising at the supposed injustice.

'And where will the sale take place?'

'On the premises, as the advertisement says; that's at the house of Ellangowan, your honour,
as I understand it.'

'And who exhibits the title-deeds, rent-roll, and plan?'

'A very decent man, sir; the sheriff-substitute of the county, who has authority from the Court
of Session. He's in the town just now, if your honour would like to see him; and he can tell
you mair about the loss of the bairn than ony body, for the sheriff- depute (that's his principal,
like) took much pains to come at the truth o' that matter, as I have heard.'

'And this gentleman's name is--'

'Mac-Morlan, sir; he's a man o' character, and weel spoken o'.'

'Send my compliments--Colonel Mannering's compliments to him, and I would be glad he would
do me the pleasure of supping with me, and bring these papers with him; and I beg, good madam,
you will say nothing of this to any one else.'

'Me, sir? ne'er a word shall I say. I wish your honour (a courtesy), or ony honourable gentleman
that's fought for his country (another courtesy), had the land, since the auld family maun
quit (a sigh), rather than that wily scoundrel Glossin, that's risen on the ruin of the best
friend he ever had. And now I think on't, I'll slip on my hood and pattens, and gang to Mr.
Mac- Morlan mysell, he's at hame e'en now; it's hardly a step.'

'Do so, my good landlady, and many thanks; and bid my servant step here with my portfolio in
the meantime.'

In a minute or two Colonel Mannering was quietly seated with his writing materials before him.
We have the privilege of looking over his shoulder as he writes, and we willingly communicate
its substance to our readers. The letter was addressed to Arthur Mervyn, Esq., of Mervyn Hall,
Llanbraithwaite, Westmoreland. It contained some account of the writer's previous journey since
parting with him, and then proceeded as follows:--

'And now, why will you still upbraid me with my melancholy, Mervyn? Do you think, after the
lapse of twenty-five years, battles, wounds, imprisonment, misfortunes of every description,
I can be still the same lively, unbroken Guy Mannering who climbed Skiddaw with you, or shot
grouse upon Crossfell? That you, who have remained in the bosom of domestic happiness, experience
little change, that your step is as light and your fancy as full of sunshine, is a blessed
effect of health and temperament, cooperating with content and a smooth current down the course
of life. But MY career has been one of difficulties and doubts and errors. From my infancy
I have been the sport of accident, and, though the wind has often borne me into harbour, it
has seldom been into that which the pilot destined. Let me recall to you--but the task must
be brief--the odd and wayward fates of my youth, and the misfortunes of my manhood.

'The former, you will say, had nothing very appalling. All was not for the best; but all was
tolerable. My father, the eldest son of an ancient but reduced family, left me with little,
save the name of the head of the house, to the protection of his more fortunate brothers. They
were so fond of me that they almost quarrelled about me. My uncle, the bishop, would have had
me in orders, and offered me a living; my uncle, the merchant, would have put me into a counting-house,
and proposed to give me a share in the thriving concern of Mannering and Marshall, in Lombard
Street. So, between these two stools, or rather these two soft, easy, well- stuffed chairs
of divinity and commerce, my unfortunate person slipped down, and pitched upon a dragoon saddle.
Again, the bishop wished me to marry the niece and heiress of the Dean of Lincoln; and my uncle,
the alderman, proposed to me the only daughter of old Sloethorn, the great wine-merchant, rich
enough to play at span-counter with moidores and make thread-papers of bank-notes; and somehow
I slipped my neck out of both nooses, and married--poor, poor Sophia Wellwood.

'You will say, my military career in India, when I followed my regiment there, should have
given me some satisfaction; and so it assuredly has. You will remind me also, that if I disappointed
the hopes of my guardians, I did not incur their displeasure; that the bishop, at his death,
bequeathed me his blessing, his manuscript sermons, and a curious portfolio containing the
heads of eminent divines of the church of England; and that my uncle, Sir Paul Mannering, left
me sole heir and executor to his large fortune. Yet this availeth me nothing; I told you I
had that upon my mind which I should carry to my grave with me, a perpetual aloes in the draught
of existence. I will tell you the cause more in detail than I had the heart to do while under
your hospitable roof. You will often hear it mentioned, and perhaps with different and unfounded
circumstances. I will therefore speak it out; and then let the event itself, and the sentiments
of melancholy with which it has impressed me, never again be subject of discussion between us.

'Sophia, as you well know, followed me to India. She was as innocent as gay; but, unfortunately
for us both, as gay as innocent. My own manners were partly formed by studies I had forsaken,
and habits of seclusion not quite consistent with my situation as commandant of a regiment
in a country where universal hospitality is offered and expected by every settler claiming
the rank of a gentleman. In a moment of peculiar pressure (you know how hard we were sometimes
run to obtain white faces to countenance our line-of-battle), a young man named Brown joined
our regiment as a volunteer, and, finding the military duty more to his fancy than commerce,
in which he had been engaged, remained with us as a cadet. Let me do my unhappy victim justice:
he behaved with such gallantry on every occasion that offered that the first vacant commission
was considered as his due. I was absent for some weeks upon a distant expedition; when I returned
I found this young fellow established quite as the friend of the house, and habitual attendant
of my wife and daughter. It was an arrangement which displeased me in many particulars, though
no objection could be made to his manners or character. Yet I might have been reconciled to
his familiarity in my family, but for the suggestions of another. If you read over--what I
never dare open-- the play of "Othello," you will have some idea of what followed-- I mean
of my motives; my actions, thank God! were less reprehensible. There was another cadet ambitious
of the vacant situation. He called my attention to what he led me to term coquetry between
my wife and this young man. Sophia was virtuous, but proud of her virtue; and, irritated by
my jealousy, she was so imprudent as to press and encourage an intimacy which she saw I disapproved
and regarded with suspicion. Between Brown and me there existed a sort of internal dislike.
He made an effort or two to overcome my prejudice; but, prepossessed as I was, I placed them
to a wrong motive. Feeling himself repulsed, and with scorn, he desisted; and as he was without
family and friends, he was naturally more watchful of the deportment of one who had both.

'It is odd with what torture I write this letter. I feel inclined, nevertheless, to protract
the operation, just as if my doing so could put off the catastrophe which has so long embittered
my life. But--it must be told, and it shall be told briefly.

'My wife, though no longer young, was still eminently handsome, and--let me say thus far in
my own justification-she was fond of being thought so--I am repeating what I said before. In
a word, of her virtue I never entertained a doubt; but, pushed by the artful suggestions of
Archer, I thought she cared little for my peace of mind, and that the young fellow Brown paid
his attentions in my despite, and in defiance of me. He perhaps considered me, on his part,
as an oppressive aristocratic man, who made my rank in society and in the army the means of
galling those whom circumstances placed beneath me. And if he discovered my silly jealousy,
he probably considered the fretting me in that sore point of my character as one means of avenging
the petty indignities to which I had it in my power to subject him. Yet an acute friend of
mine gave a more harmless, or at least a less offensive, construction to his attentions, which
he conceived to be meant for my daughter Julia, though immediately addressed to propitiate
the influence of her mother. This could have been no very flattering or pleasing enterprise
on the part of an obscure and nameless young man; but I should not have been offended at this
folly as I was at the higher degree of presumption I suspected. Offended, however, I was, and
in a mortal degree.

'A very slight spark will kindle a flame where everything lies open to catch it. I have absolutely
forgot the proximate cause of quarrel, but it was some trifle which occurred at the card-table
which occasioned high words and a challenge. We met in the morning beyond the walls and esplanade
of the fortress which I then commanded, on the frontiers of the settlement. This was arranged
for Brown's safety, had he escaped. I almost wish he had, though at my own expense; but he
fell by the first fire. We strove to assist him; but some of these looties, a species of native
banditti who were always on the watch for prey, poured in upon us. Archer and I gained our
horses with difficulty, and cut our way through them after a hard conflict, in the course of
which he received some desperate wounds. To complete the misfortunes of this miserable day,
my wife, who suspected the design with which I left the fortress, had ordered her palanquin
to follow me, and was alarmed and almost made prisoner by another troop of these plunderers.
She was quickly released by a party of our cavalry; but I cannot disguise from myself that
the incidents of this fatal morning gave a severe shock to health already delicate. The confession
of Archer, who thought himself dying, that he had invented some circumstances, and for his
purposes put the worst construction upon others, and the full explanation and exchange of forgiveness
with me which this produced, could not check the progress of her disorder. She died within
about eight months after this incident, bequeathing me only the girl of whom Mrs. Mervyn is
so good as to undertake the temporary charge. Julia was also extremely ill; so much so that
I was induced to throw up my command and return to Europe, where her native air, time, and
the novelty of the scenes around her have contributed to dissipate her dejection and restore
her health.

'Now that you know my story, you will no longer ask me the reason of my melancholy, but permit
me to brood upon it as I may. There is, surely, in the above narrative enough to embitter,
though not to poison, the chalice which the fortune and fame you so often mention had prepared
to regale my years of retirement.

'I could add circumstances which our old tutor would have quoted as instances of DAY FATALITY,--you
would laugh were I to mention such particulars, especially as you know I put no faith in them.
Yet, since I have come to the very house from which I now write, I have learned a singular
coincidence, which, if I find it truly established by tolerable evidence, will serve as hereafter
for subject of curious discussion. But I will spare you at present, as I expect a person to
speak about a purchase of property now open in this part of the country. It is a place to which
I have a foolish partiality, and I hope my purchasing may be convenient to those who are parting
with it, as there is a plan for buying it under the value. My respectful compliments to Mrs.
Mervyn, and I will trust you, though you boast to be so lively a young gentleman, to kiss Julia
for me. Adieu, dear Mervyn.--Thine ever, GUY MANNERING.'

Mr. Mac-Morlan now entered the room. The well-known character of Colonel Mannering at once
disposed this gentleman, who was a man of intelligence and probity, to be open and confidential.
He explained the advantages and disadvantages of the property. 'It was settled,' he said, 'the
greater part of it at least, upon heirs-male, and the purchaser would have the privilege of
retaining in his hands a large proportion of the price, in case of the reappearance, within
a certain limited term, of the child who had disappeared.'

'To what purpose, then, force forward a sale?' said Mannering. Mac-Morlan smiled. 'Ostensibly,'
he answered, 'to substitute the interest of money instead of the ill-paid and precarious rents
of an unimproved estate; but chiefly it was believed, to suit the wishes and views of a certain
intended purchaser, who had become a principal creditor, and forced himself into the management
of the affairs by means best known to himself, and who, it was thought, would find it very
convenient to purchase the estate without paying down the price.'

Mannering consulted with Mr. Mac-Morlan upon the steps for thwarting this unprincipled attempt.
They then conversed long on the singular disappearance of Harry Bertram upon his fifth birthday,
verifying thus the random prediction of Mannering, of which, however, it will readily be supposed
he made no boast. Mr. Mac-Morlan was not himself in office when that incident took place; but
he was well acquainted with all the circumstances, and promised that our hero should have them
detailed by the sheriff- depute himself, if, as he proposed, he should become a settler in
that part of Scotland. With this assurance they parted, well satisfied with each other and
with the evening's conference.

On the Sunday following, Colonel Mannering attended the parish church with great decorum. None
of the Ellangowan family were present; and it was understood that the old Laird was rather
worse than better. Jock Jabos, once more despatched for him, returned once more without his
errand; but on the following day Miss Bertram hoped he might be removed.

CHAPTER XIII

     They told me, by the sentence of the law,
     They had commission to seize all thy fortune.
     Here stood a ruffian with a horrid face,
     Lording it o'er a pile of massy plate,
     Tumbled into a heap for public sale;
     There was another, making villainous jests
     At thy undoing; he had ta'en possession
     Of all thy ancient most domestic ornaments.

          OTWAY.

Early next morning Mannering mounted his horse and, accompanied by his servant, took the road
to Ellangowan. He had no need to inquire the way. A sale in the country is a place of public
resort and amusement, and people of various descriptions streamed to it from all quarters.

After a pleasant ride of about an hour, the old towers of the ruin presented themselves in
the landscape. The thoughts, with what different feelings he had lost sight of them so many
years before, thronged upon the mind of the traveller. The landscape was the same; but how
changed the feelings, hopes, and views of the spectator! Then life and love were new, and all
the prospect was gilded by their rays. And now, disappointed in affection, sated with fame
and what the world calls success, his mind, goaded by bitter and repentant recollection, his
best hope was to find a retirement in which he might nurse the melancholy that was to accompany
him to his grave. 'Yet why should an individual mourn over the instability of his hopes and
the vanity of his prospects? The ancient chiefs who erected these enormous and massive towers
to be the fortress of their race and the seat of their power,-- could they have dreamed the
day was to come when the last of their descendants should be expelled, a ruined wanderer, from
his possessions! But Nature's bounties are unaltered. The sun will shine as fair on these ruins,
whether the property of a stranger or of a sordid and obscure trickster of the abused law,
as when the banners of the founder first waved upon their battlements.'

These reflections brought Mannering to the door of the house, which was that day open to all.
He entered among others, who traversed the apartments, some to select articles for purchase,
others to gratify their curiosity. There is something melancholy in such a scene, even under
the most favourable circumstances. The confused state of the furniture, displaced for the convenience
of being easily viewed and carried off by the purchasers, is disagreeable to the eye. Those
articles which, properly and decently arranged, look creditable and handsome, have then a paltry
and wretched appearance; and the apartments, stripped of all that render them commodious and
comfortable, have an aspect of ruin and dilapidation. It is disgusting also to see the scenes
of domestic society and seclusion thrown open to the gaze of the curious and the vulgar, to
hear their coarse speculations and brutal jests upon the fashions and furniture to which they
are unaccustomed,--a frolicsome humour much cherished by the whisky which in Scotland is always
put in circulation on such occasions. All these are ordinary effects of such a scene as Ellangowan
now presented; but the moral feeling, that in this case they indicated the total ruin of an
ancient and honourable family, gave them treble weight and poignancy.

It was some time before Colonel Mannering could find any one disposed to answer his reiterated
questions concerning Ellangowan himself. At length an old maidservant, who held her apron to
her eyes as she spoke, told him 'the Laird was something better, and they hoped he would be
able to leave the house that day. Miss Lucy expected the chaise every moment, and, as the day
was fine for the time o' year, they had carried him in his easychair up to the green before
the auld castle, to be out of the way of this unco spectacle.' Thither Colonel Mannering went
in quest of him, and soon came in sight of the little group, which consisted of four persons.
The ascent was steep, so that he had time to reconnoitre them as he advanced, and to consider
in what mode he should make his address.

Mr. Bertram, paralytic and almost incapable of moving, occupied his easy-chair, attired in
his nightcap and a loose camlet coat, his feet wrapped in blankets. Behind him, with his hands
crossed on the cane upon which he rested, stood Dominie Sampson, whom Mannering recognised
at once. Time had made no change upon him, unless that his black coat seemed more brown, and
his gaunt cheeks more lank, than when Mannering last saw him. On one side of the old man was
a sylph-like form--a young woman of about seventeen, whom the Colonel accounted to be his daughter.
She was looking from time to time anxiously towards the avenue, as if expecting the post-chaise;
and between whiles busied herself in adjusting the blankets so as to protect her father from
the cold, and in answering inquiries, which he seemed to make with a captious and querulous
manner. She did not trust herself to look towards the Place, although the hum of the assembled
crowd must have drawn her attention in that direction. The fourth person of the group was a
handsome and genteel young man, who seemed to share Miss Bertram's anxiety, and her solicitude
to soothe and accommodate her parent.

This young man was the first who observed Colonel Mannering, and immediately stepped forward
to meet him, as if politely to prevent his drawing nearer to the distressed group. Mannering
instantly paused and explained. 'He was,' he said, 'a stranger to whom Mr. Bertram had formerly
shown kindness and hospitality; he would not have intruded himself upon him at a period of
distress, did it not seem to be in some degree a moment also of desertion; he wished merely
to offer such services as might be in his power to Mr. Bertram and the young lady.'

He then paused at a little distance from the chair. His old acquaintance gazed at him with
lack-lustre eye, that intimated no tokens of recognition; the Dominie seemed too deeply sunk
in distress even to observe his presence. The young man spoke aside with Miss Bertram, who
advanced timidly, and thanked Colonel Mannering for his goodness; 'but,' she said, the tears
gushing fast into her eyes, 'her father, she feared, was not so much himself as to be able
to remember him.'

She then retreated towards the chair, accompanied by the Colonel. 'Father,' she said, 'this
is Mr. Mannering, an old friend, come to inquire after you.'

'He's very heartily welcome,' said the old man, raising himself in his chair, and attempting
a gesture of courtesy, while a gleam of hospitable satisfaction seemed to pass over his faded
features; 'but, Lucy, my dear, let us go down to the house; you should not keep the gentleman
here in the cold. Dominie, take the key of the wine-cooler. Mr. a--a--the gentleman will surely
take something after his ride.'

Mannering was unspeakably affected by the contrast which his recollection made between this
reception and that with which he had been greeted by the same individual when they last met.
He could not restrain his tears, and his evident emotion at once attained him the confidence
of the friendless young lady.

'Alas!' she said, 'this is distressing even to a stranger; but it may be better for my poor
father to be in this way than if he knew and could feel all.'

A servant in livery now came up the path, and spoke in an undertone to the young gentleman--'Mr.
Charles, my lady's wanting you yonder sadly, to bid for her for the black ebony cabinet; and
Lady Jean Devorgoil is wi' her an' a'; ye maun come away directly.'

'Tell them you could not find me, Tom, or, stay,--say I am looking at the horses.'

'No, no, no,' said Lucy Bertram, earnestly; 'if you would not add to the misery of this miserable
moment, go to the company directly. This gentleman, I am sure, will see us to the carriage.'

'Unquestionably, madam,' said Mannering, 'your young friend may rely on my attention.'

'Farewell, then,' said young Hazlewood, and whispered a word in her ear; then ran down the
steep hastily, as if not trusting his resolution at a slower pace.

'Where's Charles Hazlewood running?' said the invalid, who apparently was accustomed to his
presence and attentions; 'where's Charles Hazlewood running? what takes him away now?'

'He'll return in a little while,' said Lucy, gently.

The sound of voices was now heard from the ruins. The reader may remember there was a communication
between the castle and the beach, up which the speakers had ascended.

'Yes, there's a plenty of shells and seaware for manure, as you observe; and if one inclined
to build a new house, which might indeed be necessary, there's a great deal of good hewn stone
about this old dungeon, for the devil here--'

'Good God!' said Miss Bertram hastily to Sampson, ''t is that wretch Glossin's voice! If my
father sees him, it will kill him outright!'

Sampson wheeled perpendicularly round, and moved with long strides to confront the attorney
as he issued from beneath the portal arch of the ruin. 'Avoid ye!' he said, 'avoid ye! wouldst
thou kill and take possession?'

'Come, come, Master Dominie Sampson,' answered Glossin insolently, 'if ye cannot preach in
the pulpit, we'll have no preaching here. We go by the law, my good friend; we leave the gospel
to you.'

The very mention of this man's name had been of late a subject of the most violent irritation
to the unfortunate patient. The sound of his voice now produced an instantaneous effect. Mr.
Bertram started up without assistance and turned round towards him; the ghastliness of his
features forming a strange contrast with the violence of his exclamations.--'Out of my sight,
ye viper! ye frozen viper, that I warmed, till ye stung me! Art thou not afraid that the walls
of my father's dwelling should fall and crush thee limb and bone? Are ye not afraid the very
lintels of the door of Ellangowan Castle should break open and swallow you up? Were ye not
friendless, houseless, penniless, when I took ye by the hand; and are ye not expelling me--me
and that innocent girl-- friendless, houseless, and penniless, from the house that has sheltered
us and ours for a thousand years?'

Had Glossin been alone, he would probably have slunk off; but the consciousness that a stranger
was present, besides the person who came with him (a sort of land-surveyor), determined him
to resort to impudence. The task, however, was almost too hard even for his effrontery--'Sir--sir--Mr.
Bertram, sir, you should not blame me, but your own imprudence, sir--'

The indignation of Mannering was mounting very high. 'Sir,' he said to Glossin, 'without entering
into the merits of this controversy, I must inform you that you have chosen a very improper
place, time, and presence for it. And you will oblige me by withdrawing without more words.'

Glossin, being a tall, strong, muscular man, was not unwilling rather to turn upon the stranger,
whom he hoped to bully, than maintain his wretched cause against his injured patron.--'I do
not know who you are, sir,' he said, 'and I shall permit no man to use such d--d freedom with me.'

Mannering was naturally hot-tempered: his eyes flashed a dark light; he compressed his nether
lip so closely that the blood sprung, and approaching Glossin--'Look you, sir,' he said,' that
you do not know me is of little consequence. I KNOW YOU; and if you do not instantly descend
that bank, without uttering a single syllable, by the Heaven that is above us you shall make
but one step from the top to the bottom!'

The commanding tone of rightful anger silenced at once the ferocity of the bully. He hesitated,
turned on his heel, and, muttering something between his teeth about unwillingness to alarm
the lady, relieved them of his hateful company.

Mrs. Mac-Candlish's postilion, who had come up in time to hear what passed, said aloud, 'If
he had stuck by the way, I would have lent him a heezie, the dirty scoundrel, as willingly
as ever I pitched a boddle.'

He then stepped forward to announce that his horses were in readiness for the invalid and his
daughter. But they were no longer necessary. The debilitated frame of Mr. Bertram was exhausted
by this last effort of indignant anger, and when he sunk again upon his chair, he expired almost
without a struggle or groan. So little alteration did the extinction of the vital spark make
upon his external appearance that the screams of his daughter, when she saw his eye fix and
felt his pulse stop, first announced his death to the spectators.

           YOUNG.

The moral which the poet has rather quaintly deduced from the necessary mode of measuring time
may be well applied to our feelings respecting that portion of it which constitutes human life.
We observe the aged, the infirm, and those engaged in occupations of immediate hazard, trembling
as it were upon the very brink of non-existence, but we derive no lesson from the precariousness
of their tenure until it has altogether failed. Then, for a moment at least--

          Our hopes and fears
     Start up alarm'd, and o'er life's narrow verge
     Look down--on what? a fathomless abyss,
     A dark eternity, how surely ours!

The crowd of assembled gazers and idlers at Ellangowan had followed the views of amusement,
or what they called business, which brought them there, with little regard to the feelings
of those who were suffering upon that occasion. Few, indeed, knew anything of the family. The
father, betwixt seclusion, misfortune, and imbecility, had drifted, as it were, for many years
out of the notice of his contemporaries; the daughter had never been known to them. But when
the general murmur announced that the unfortunate Mr. Bertram had broken his heart in the effort
to leave the mansion of his forefathers, there poured forth a torrent of sympathy like the
waters from the rock when stricken by the wand of the prophet. The ancient descent and unblemished
integrity of the family were respectfully remembered; above all, the sacred veneration due
to misfortune, which in Scotland seldom demands its tribute in vain, then claimed and received it.

Mr. Mac-Morlan hastily announced that he would suspend all farther proceedings in the sale
of the estate and other property, and relinquish the possession of the premises to the young
lady, until she could consult with her friends and provide for the burial of her father.

Glossin had cowered for a few minutes under the general expression of sympathy, till, hardened
by observing that no appearance of popular indignation was directed his way, he had the audacity
to require that the sale should proceed.

'I will take it upon my own authority to adjourn it,' said the Sheriff-substitute, 'and will
be responsible for the consequences. I will also give due notice when it is again to go forward.
It is for the benefit of all concerned that the lands should bring the highest price the state
of the market will admit, and this is surely no time to expect it. I will take the responsibility
upon myself.'

Glossin left the room and the house too with secrecy and despatch; and it was probably well
for him that he did so, since our friend Jock Jabos was already haranguing a numerous tribe
of bare-legged boys on the propriety of pelting him off the estate.

Some of the rooms were hastily put in order for the reception of the young lady, and of her
father's dead body. Mannering now found his farther interference would be unnecessary, and
might be misconstrued. He observed, too, that several families connected with that of Ellangowan,
and who indeed derived their principal claim of gentility from the alliance, were now disposed
to pay to their trees of genealogy a tribute which the adversity of their supposed relatives
had been inadequate to call forth; and that the honour of superintending the funeral rites
of the dead Godfrey Bertram (as in the memorable case of Homer's birthplace) was likely to
be debated by seven gentlemen of rank and fortune, none of whom had offered him an asylum while
living. He therefore resolved, as his presence was altogether useless, to make a short tour
of a fortnight, at the end of which period the adjourned sale of the estate of Ellangowan was
to proceed.

But before he departed he solicited an interview with the Dominie. The poor man appeared, on
being informed a gentleman wanted to speak to him, with some expression of surprise in his
gaunt features, to which recent sorrow had given an expression yet more grisly. He made two
or three profound reverences to Mannering, and then, standing erect, patiently waited an explanation
of his commands.

'You are probably at a loss to guess, Mr. Sampson,' said Mannering, 'what a stranger may have
to say to you?'

'Unless it were to request that I would undertake to train up some youth in polite letters
and humane learning; but I cannot--I cannot; I have yet a task to perform.'

'No, Mr. Sampson, my wishes are not so ambitious. I have no son, and my only daughter, I presume,
you would not consider as a fit pupil.'

'Of a surety no,' replied the simple-minded Sampson. 'Nathless, it was I who did educate Miss
Lucy in all useful learning, albeit it was the housekeeper who did teach her those unprofitable
exercises of hemming and shaping.'

'Well, sir,' replied Mannering, 'it is of Miss Lucy I meant to speak. You have, I presume,
no recollection of me?'

Sampson, always sufficiently absent in mind, neither remembered the astrologer of past years,
nor even the stranger who had taken his patron's part against Glossin, so much had his friend's
sudden death embroiled his ideas.

'Well, that does not signify,' pursued the Colonel; 'I am an old acquaintance of the late Mr.
Bertram, able and willing to assist his daughter in her present circumstances. Besides, I have
thoughts of making this purchase, and I should wish things kept in order about the place; will
you have the goodness to apply this small sum in the usual family expenses?' He put into the
Dominie's hand a purse containing some gold.

'Pro-di-gi-ous!' exclaimed Dominie Sampson. 'But if your honour would tarry--'

'Impossible, sir, impossible,' said Mannering, making his escape from him.

'Pro-di-gi-ous!' again exclaimed Sampson, following to the head of the stairs, still holding
out the purse. 'But as touching this coined money--'

Mannering escaped downstairs as fast as possible.

'Pro-di-gi-ous!' exclaimed Dominie Sampson, yet the third time, now standing at the front door.
'But as touching this specie--'

But Mannering was now on horseback, and out of hearing. The Dominie, who had never, either
in his own right or as trustee for another, been possessed of a quarter part of this sum, though
it was not above twenty guineas, 'took counsel,' as he expressed himself, 'how he should demean
himself with respect unto the fine gold' thus left in his charge. Fortunately he found a disinterested
adviser in Mac-Morlan, who pointed out the most proper means of disposing of it for contributing
to Miss Bertram's convenience, being no doubt the purpose to which it was destined by the bestower.

Many of the neighbouring gentry were now sincerely eager in pressing offers of hospitality
and kindness upon Miss Bertram. But she felt a natural reluctance to enter any family for the
first time as an object rather of benevolence than hospitality, and determined to wait the
opinion and advice of her father's nearest female relation, Mrs. Margaret Bertram of Singleside,
an old unmarried lady, to whom she wrote an account of her present distressful situation.

The funeral of the late Mr. Bertram was performed with decent privacy, and the unfortunate
young lady was now to consider herself as but the temporary tenant of the house in which she
had been born, and where her patience and soothing attentions had so long 'rocked the cradle
of declining age.' Her communication with Mr. Mac-Morlan encouraged her to hope that she would
not be suddenly or unkindly deprived of this asylum; but fortune had ordered otherwise.

For two days before the appointed day for the sale of the lands and estate of Ellangowan, Mac-Morlan
daily expected the appearance of Colonel Mannering, or at least a letter containing powers
to act for him. But none such arrived. Mr. Mac-Morlan waked early in the morning, walked over
to the Post-office,--there were no letters for him. He endeavoured to persuade himself that
he should see Colonel Mannering to breakfast, and ordered his wife to place her best china
and prepare herself accordingly. But the preparations were in vain. 'Could I have foreseen
this,' he said, 'I would have travelled Scotland over, but I would have found some one to bid
against Glossin.' Alas! such reflections were all too late. The appointed hour arrived; and
the parties met in the Masons' Lodge at Kippletringan, being the place fixed for the adjourned
sale. Mac-Morlan spent as much time in preliminaries as decency would permit, and read over
the articles of sale as slowly as if he had been reading his own death-warrant. He turned his
eye every time the door of the room opened, with hopes which grew fainter and fainter. He listened
to every noise in the street of the village, and endeavoured to distinguish in it the sound
of hoofs or wheels. It was all in vain. A bright idea then occurred, that Colonel Mannering
might have employed some other person in the transaction; he would not have wasted a moment's
thought upon the want of confidence in himself which such a manoeuvre would have evinced. But
this hope also was groundless. After a solemn pause, Mr. Glossin offered the upset price for
the lands and barony of Ellangowan. No reply was made, and no competitor appeared; so, after
a lapse of the usual interval by the running of a sand-glass, upon the intended purchaser entering
the proper sureties, Mr. Mac-Morlan was obliged, in technical terms, to 'find and declare the
sale lawfully completed, and to prefer the said Gilbert Glossin as the purchaser of the said
lands and estate.' The honest writer refused to partake of a splendid entertainment with which
Gilbert Glossin, Esquire, now of Ellangowan, treated the rest of the company, and returned
home in huge bitterness of spirit, which he vented in complaints against the fickleness and
caprice of these Indian nabobs, who never knew what they would be at for ten days together.
Fortune generously determined to take the blame upon herself, and cut off even this vent of
Mac-Morlan's resentment.

An express arrived about six o'clock at night, 'very particularly drunk,' the maid-servant
said, with a packet from Colonel Mannering, dated four days back, at a town about a hundred
miles' distance from Kippletringan, containing full powers to Mr. Mac- Morlan, or any one whom
he might employ, to make the intended purchase, and stating that some family business of consequence
called the Colonel himself to Westmoreland, where a letter would find him, addressed to the
care of Arthur Mervyn, Esq., of Mervyn Hall.

Mac-Morlan, in the transports of his wrath, flung the power of attorney at the head of the
innocent maidservant, and was only forcibly withheld from horse-whipping the rascally messenger
by whose sloth and drunkenness the disappointment had taken place.

CHAPTER XV

     My gold is gone, my money is spent,
     My land now take it unto thee.
     Give me thy gold, good John o' the Scales,
     And thine for aye my land shall be.

     Then John he did him to record draw.
     And John he caste him a gods-pennie;
     But for every pounde that John agreed,
     The land, I wis, was well worth three.

          HEIR OF LINNE.

The Galwegian John o' the Scales was a more clever fellow than his prototype. He contrived
to make himself heir of Linne without the disagreeable ceremony of 'telling down the good red
gold.' Miss Bertram no sooner heard this painful, and of late unexpected, intelligence than
she proceeded in the preparations she had already made for leaving the mansion-house immediately.
Mr. Mac- Morlan assisted her in these arrangements, and pressed upon her so kindly the hospitality
and protection of his roof, until she should receive an answer from her cousin, or be enabled
to adopt some settled plan of life, that she felt there would be unkindness in refusing an
invitation urged with such earnestness. Mrs. Mac- Morlan was a ladylike person, and well qualified
by birth and manners to receive the visit, and to make her house agreeable to Miss Bertram.
A home, therefore, and an hospitable reception were secured to her, and she went on with better
heart to pay the wages and receive the adieus of the few domestics of her father's family.

Where there are estimable qualities on either side, this task is always affecting; the present
circumstances rendered it doubly so. All received their due, and even a trifle more, and with
thanks and good wishes, to which some added tears, took farewell of their young mistress. There
remained in the parlour only Mr. Mac-Morlan, who came to attend his guest to his house, Dominie
Sampson, and Miss Bertram. 'And now,' said the poor girl, 'I must bid farewell to one of my
oldest and kindest friends. God bless you, Mr. Sampson, and requite to you all the kindness
of your instructions to your poor pupil, and your friendship to him that is gone. I hope I
shall often hear from you.' She slid into his hand a paper containing some pieces of gold,
and rose, as if to leave the room.

Dominie Sampson also rose; but it was to stand aghast with utter astonishment. The idea of
parting from Miss Lucy, go where she might, had never once occurred to the simplicity of his
understanding. He laid the money on the table. 'It is certainly inadequate,' said Mac-Morlan,
mistaking his meaning, 'but the circumstances--'

Mr. Sampson waved his hand impatiently.--'It is not the lucre, it is not the lucre; but that
I, that have ate of her father's loaf, and drank of his cup, for twenty years and more--to
think that I am going to leave her, and to leave her in distress and dolour! No, Miss Lucy,
you need never think it! You would not consent to put forth your father's poor dog, and would
you use me waur than a messan? No, Miss Lucy Bertram, while I live I will not separate from
you. I'll be no burden; I have thought how to prevent that. 'Mr. Sampson,' said Mac-Morlan,
after having had recourse to his snuff-box and handkerchief alternately, 'my house is large
enough, and if you will accept of a bed there while Miss Bertram honours us with her residence,
I shall think myself very happy, and my roof much favoured, by receiving a man of your worth
and fidelity.' And then, with a delicacy which was meant to remove any objection on Miss Bertram's
part to bringing with her this unexpected satellite, he added, 'My business requires my frequently
having occasion for a better accountant than any of my present clerks, and I should be glad
to have recourse to your assistance in that way now and then.'

'Of a surety, of a surety,' said Sampson eagerly; 'I understand book-keeping by double entry
and the Italian method.'

Our postilion had thrust himself into the room to announce his chaise and horses; he tarried,
unobserved, during this extraordinary scene, and assured Mrs. Mac-Candlish it was the most
moving thing he ever saw; 'the death of the grey mare, puir hizzie, was naething till't.' This
trifling circumstance afterwards had consequences of greater moment to the Dominie.

The visitors were hospitably welcomed by Mrs. Mac-Morlan, to whom, as well as to others, her
husband intimated that he had engaged Dominie Sampson's assistance to disentangle some perplexed
accounts, during which occupation he would, for convenience sake, reside with the family. Mr.
Mac-Morlan's knowledge of the world induced him to put this colour upon the matter, aware that,
however honourable the fidelity of the Dominie's attachment might be both to his own heart
and to the family of Ellangowan, his exterior ill qualified him to be a'squire of dames,' and
rendered him, upon the whole, rather a ridiculous appendage to a beautiful young woman of seventeen.

Dominie Sampson achieved with great zeal such tasks as Mr. Mac- Morlan chose to entrust him
with; but it was speedily observed that at a certain hour after breakfast he regularly disappeared,
and returned again about dinner-time. The evening he occupied in the labour of the office.
On Saturday he appeared before Mac- Morlan with a look of great triumph, and laid on the table
two pieces of gold. 'What is this for, Dominie?' said Mac-Morlan.

'First to indemnify you of your charges in my behalf, worthy sir; and the balance for the use
of Miss Lucy Bertram.'

'But, Mr. Sampson, your labour in the office much more than recompenses me; I am your debtor,
my good friend.'

'Then be it all,' said the Dominie, waving his hand, 'for Miss Lucy Bertram's behoof.'

'Well, but, Dominie, this money-'

'It is honestly come by, Mr. Mac-Morlan; it is the bountiful reward of a young gentleman to
whom I am teaching the tongues; reading with him three hours daily.'

A few more questions extracted from the Dominie that this liberal pupil was young Hazlewood,
and that he met his preceptor daily at the house of Mrs. Mac-Candlish, whose proclamation of
Sampson's disinterested attachment to the young lady had procured him this indefatigable and
bounteous scholar.

Mac-Morlan was much struck with what he heard. Dominie Sampson was doubtless a very good scholar,
and an excellent man, and the classics were unquestionably very well worth reading; yet that
a young man of twenty should ride seven miles and back again each day in the week, to hold
this sort of TETE-A-TETE of three hours, was a zeal for literature to which he was not prepared
to give entire credit. Little art was necessary to sift the Dominie, for the honest man's head
never admitted any but the most direct and simple ideas. 'Does Miss Bertram know how your time
is engaged, my good friend?'

'Surely not as yet. Mr. Charles recommended it should be concealed from her, lest she should
scruple to accept of the small assistance arising from it; but,' he added, 'it would not be
possible to conceal it long, since Mr. Charles proposed taking his lessons occasionally in
this house.'

'O, he does!' said Mac-Morlan.' Yes, yes, I can understand that better. And pray, Mr. Sampson,
are these three hours entirely spent inconstruing and translating?'

'Doubtless, no; we have also colloquial intercourse to sweeten study: neque semper arcum tendit
apollo.'

The querist proceeded to elicit from this Galloway Phoebus what their discourse chiefly turned
upon.

'Upon our past meetings at Ellangowan; and, truly, I think very often we discourse concerning
Miss Lucy, for Mr. Charles Hazlewood in that particular resembleth me, Mr. Mac-Morlan. When
I begin to speak of her I never know when to stop; and, as I say (jocularly), she cheats us
out of half our lessons.'

'O ho!' thought Mac-Morlan, 'sits the wind in that quarter? I've heard something like this before.'

He then began to consider what conduct was safest for his protegee, and even for himself; for
the senior Mr. Hazlewood was powerful, wealthy, ambitious, and vindictive, and looked for both
fortune and title in any connexion which his son might form. At length, having the highest
opinion of his guest's good sense and penetration, he determined to take an opportunity, when
they should happen to be alone, to communicate the matter to her as a simple piece of intelligence.
He did so in as natural a manner as he could. 'I wish you joy of your friend Mr. Sampson's
good fortune, Miss Bertram; he has got a pupil who pays him two guineas for twelve lessons
of Greek and Latin.'

'Indeed! I am equally happy and surprised. Who can be so liberal? is Colonel Mannering returned?'

'No, no, not Colonel Mannering; but what do you think of your acquaintance, Mr. Charles Hazlewood?
He talks of taking his lessons here; I wish we may have accommodation for him.'

Lucy blushed deeply. 'For Heaven's sake, no, Mr. Mac-Morlan, do not let that be; Charles Hazlewood
has had enough of mischief about that already.'

'About the classics, my dear young lady?' wilfully seeming to misunderstand her; 'most young
gentlemen have so at one period or another, sure enough; but his present studies are voluntary.'

Miss Bertram let the conversation drop, and her host made no effort to renew it, as she seemed
to pause upon the intelligence in order to form some internal resolution.

The next day Miss Bertram took an opportunity of conversing with Mr. Sampson. Expressing in
the kindest manner her grateful thanks for his disinterested attachment, and her joy that he
had got such a provision, she hinted to him that his present mode of superintending Charles
Hazlewood's studies must be so inconvenient to his pupil that, while that engagement lasted,
he had better consent to a temporary separation, and reside either with his scholar or as near
him as might be. Sampson refused, as indeed she had expected, to listen a moment to this proposition;
he would not quit her to be made preceptor to the Prince of Wales. 'But I see,' he added, 'you
are too proud to share my pittance; and peradventure I grow wearisome unto you.'

'No indeed; you were my father's ancient, almost his only, friend. I am not proud; God knows,
I have no reason to be so. You shall do what you judge best in other matters; but oblige me
by telling Mr. Charles Hazlewood that you had some conversation with me concerning his studies,
and that I was of opinion that his carrying them on in this house was altogether impracticable,
and not to be thought of.'

Dominie Sampson left her presence altogether crest-fallen, and, as he shut the door, could
not help muttering the 'varium et mutabile' of Virgil. Next day he appeared with a very rueful
visage, and tendered Miss Bertram a letter. 'Mr. Hazlewood,' he said, 'was to discontinue his
lessons, though he had generously made up the pecuniary loss. But how will he make up the loss
to himself of the knowledge he might have acquired under my instruction? Even in that one article
of writing,--he was an hour before he could write that brief note, and destroyed many scrolls,
four quills, and some good white paper. I would have taught him in three weeks a firm, current,
clear, and legible hand; he should have been a calligrapher,--but God's will be done.'

The letter contained but a few lines, deeply regretting and murmuring against Miss Bertram's
cruelty, who not only refused to see him, but to permit him in the most indirect manner to
hear of her health and contribute to her service. But it concluded with assurances that her
severity was vain, and that nothing could shake the attachment of Charles Hazlewood.

Under the active patronage of Mrs. Mac-Candlish, Sampson picked up some other scholars--very
different indeed from Charles Hazlewood in rank, and whose lessons were proportionally unproductive.
Still, however, he gained something, and it was the glory of his heart to carry it to Mr. Mac-Morlan
weekly, a slight peculium only subtracted to supply his snuff-box and tobacco-pouch.

And here we must leave Kippletringan to look after our hero, lest our readers should fear they
are to lose sight of him for another quarter of a century.

          Beggar's Opera.

After the death of Mr. Bertram, Mannering had set out upon a short tour, proposing to return
to the neighbourhood of Ellangowan before the sale of that property should take place. He went,
accordingly, to Edinburgh and elsewhere, and it was in his return towards the south-western
district of Scotland, in which our scene lies, that, at a post-town about a hundred miles from
Kippletringan, to which he had requested his friend, Mr. Mervyn, to address his letters, he
received one from that gentleman which contained rather unpleasing intelligence. We have assumed
already the privilege of acting a secretis to this gentleman, and therefore shall present the
reader with an extract from this epistle.

'I beg your pardon, my dearest friend, for the pain I have given you in forcing you to open
wounds so festering as those your letter referred to. I have always heard, though erroneously
perhaps, that the attentions of Mr. Brown were intended for Miss Mannering. But, however that
were, it could not be supposed that in your situation his boldness should escape notice and
chastisement. Wise men say that we resign to civil society our natural rights of self-defence
only on condition that the ordinances of law should protect us. Where the price cannot be paid,
the resignation becomes void. For instance, no one supposes that I am not entitled to defend
my purse and person against a highwayman, as much as if I were a wild Indian, who owns neither
law nor magistracy. The question of resistance or submission must be determined by my means
and situation. But if, armed and equal in force, I submit to injustice and violence from any
man, high or low, I presume it will hardly be attributed to religious or moral feeling in me,
or in any one but a Quaker. An aggression on my honour seems to me much the same. The insult,
however trifling in itself, is one of much deeper consequence to all views in life than any
wrong which can be inflicted by a depredator on the highway, and to redress the injured party
is much less in the power of public jurisprudence, or rather it is entirely beyond its reach.
If any man chooses to rob Arthur Mervyn of the contents of his purse, supposing the said Arthur
has not means of defence, or the skill and courage to use them, the assizes at Lancaster or
Carlisle will do him justice by tucking up the robber; yet who will say I am bound to wait
for this justice, and submit to being plundered in the first instance, if I have myself the
means and spirit to protect my own property? But if an affront is offered to me, submission
under which is to tarnish my character for ever with men of honour, and for which the twelve
judges of England, with the chancellor to boot, can afford me no redress, by what rule of law
or reason am I to be deterred from protecting what ought to be, and is, so infinitely dearer
to every man of honour than his whole fortune? Of the religious views of the matter I shall
say nothing, until I find a reverend divine who shall condemn self-defence in the article of
life and property. If its propriety in that case be generally admitted, I suppose little distinction
can be drawn between defence of person and goods and protection of reputation. That the latter
is liable to be assailed by persons of a different rank in life, untainted perhaps in morals,
and fair in character, cannot affect my legal right of self-defence. I may be sorry that circumstances
have engaged me in personal strife with such an individual; but I should feel the same sorrow
for a generous enemy who fell under my sword in a national quarrel. I shall leave the question
with the casuists, however; only observing, that what I have written will not avail either
the professed duellist or him who is the aggressor in a dispute of honour. I only presume to
exculpate him who is dragged into the field by such an offence as, submitted to in patience,
would forfeit for ever his rank and estimation in society.

'I am sorry you have thoughts of settling in Scotland, and yet glad that you will still be
at no immeasurable distance, and that the latitude is all in our favour. To move to Westmoreland
from Devonshire might make an East-Indian shudder; but to come to us from Galloway or Dumfries-shire
is a step, though a short one, nearer the sun. Besides, if, as I suspect, the estate in view
be connected with the old haunted castle in which you played the astrologer in your northern
tour some twenty years since, I have heard you too often describe the scene with comic unction
to hope you will be deterred from making the purchase. I trust, however, the hospitable gossiping
Laird has not run himself upon the shallows, and that his chaplain, whom you so often made
us laugh at, is still in rerum natura.

'And here, dear Mannering, I wish I could stop, for I have incredible pain in telling the rest
of my story; although I am sure I can warn you against any intentional impropriety on the part
of my temporary ward, Julia Mannering. But I must still earn my college nickname of Downright
Dunstable. In one word, then, here is the matter.

'Your daughter has much of the romantic turn of your disposition, with a little of that love
of admiration which all pretty women share less or more. She will besides, apparently, be your
heiress; a trifling circumstance to those who view Julia with my eyes, but a prevailing bait
to the specious, artful, and worthless. You know how I have jested with her about her soft
melancholy, and lonely walks at morning before any one is up, and in the moonlight when all
should be gone to bed, or set down to cards, which is the same thing. The incident which follows
may not be beyond the bounds of a joke, but I had rather the jest upon it came from you than me.

'Two or three times during the last fortnight I heard, at a late hour in the night or very
early in the morning, a flageolet play the little Hindu tune to which your daughter is so partial.
I thought for some time that some tuneful domestic, whose taste for music was laid under constraint
during the day, chose that silent hour to imitate the strains which he had caught up by the
ear during his attendance in the drawing-room. But last night I sat late in my study, which
is immediately under Miss Mannering's apartment, and to my surprise I not only heard the flageolet
distinctly, but satisfied myself that it came from the lake under the window. Curious to know
who serenaded us at that unusual hour, I stole softly to the window of my apartment. But there
were other watchers than me. You may remember, Miss Mannering preferred that apartment on account
of a balcony which opened from her window upon the lake. Well, sir, I heard the sash of her
window thrown up, the shutters opened, and her own voice in conversation with some person who
answered from below. This is not "Much ado about nothing"; I could not be mistaken in her voice,
and such tones, so soft, so insinuating; and, to say the truth, the accents from below were
in passion's tenderest cadence too,--but of the sense I can say nothing. I raised the sash
of my own window that I might hear something more than the mere murmur of this Spanish rendezvous;
but, though I used every precaution, the noise alarmed the speakers; down slid the young lady's
casement, and the shutters were barred in an instant. The dash of a pair of oars in the water
announced the retreat of the male person of the dialogue. Indeed, I saw his boat, which he
rowed with great swiftness and dexterity, fly across the lake like a twelve-oared barge. Next
morning I examined some of my domestics, as if by accident, and I found the gamekeeper, when
making his rounds, had twice seen that boat beneath the house, with a single person, and had
heard the flageolet. I did not care to press any farther questions, for fear of implicating
Julia in the opinions of those of whom they might be asked. Next morning, at breakfast, I dropped
a casual hint about the serenade of the evening before, and I promise you Miss Mannering looked
red and pale alternately. I immediately gave the circumstance such a turn as might lead her
to suppose that my observation was merely casual. I have since caused a watch-light to be burnt
in my library, and have left the shutters open, to deter the approach of our nocturnal guest;
and I have stated the severity of approaching winter, and the rawness of the fogs, as an objection
to solitary walks. Miss Mannering acquiesced with a passiveness which is no part of her character,
and which, to tell you the plain truth, is a feature about the business which I like least
of all. Julia has too much of her own dear papa's disposition to be curbed in any of her humours,
were there not some little lurking consciousness that it may be as prudent to avoid debate.

'Now my story is told, and you will judge what you ought to do. I have not mentioned the matter
to my good woman, who, a faithful secretary to her sex's foibles, would certainly remonstrate
against your being made acquainted with these particulars, and might, instead, take it into
her head to exercise her own eloquence on Miss Mannering; a faculty which, however powerful
when directed against me, its legitimate object, might, I fear, do more harm than good in the
case supposed. Perhaps even you yourself will find it most prudent to act without remonstrating,
or appearing to be aware of this little anecdote. Julia is very like a certain friend of mine;
she has a quick and lively imagination, and keen feelings, which are apt to exaggerate both
the good and evil they find in life. She is a charming girl, however, as generous and spirited
as she is lovely. I paid her the kiss you sent her with all my heart, and she rapped my fingers
for my reward with all hers. Pray return as soon as you can. Meantime rely upon the care of,
yours faithfully, 'ARTHUR MERVYN.

'P.S.--You will naturally wish to know if I have the least guess concerning the person of the
serenader. In truth, I have none. There is no young gentleman of these parts, who might be
in rank or fortune a match for Miss Julia, that I think at all likely to play such a character.
But on the other side of the lake, nearly opposite to Mervyn Hall, is a d--d cake-house, the
resort of walking gentlemen of all descriptions--poets, players, painters, musicians--who come
to rave, and recite, and madden about this picturesque land of ours. It is paying some penalty
for its beauties, that they are the means of drawing this swarm of coxcombs together. But were
Julia my daughter, it is one of those sort of fellows that I should fear on her account. She
is generous and romantic, and writes six sheets a week to a female correspondent; and it's
a sad thing to lack a subject in such a case, either for exercise of the feelings or of the
pen. Adieu, once more. Were I to treat this matter more seriously than I have done, I should
do injustice to your feelings; were I altogether to overlook it, I should discredit my own.'

The consequence of this letter was, that, having first despatched the faithless messenger with
the necessary powers to Mr. Mac- Morlan for purchasing the estate of Ellangowan, Colonel Mannering
turned his horse's head in a more southerly direction, and neither 'stinted nor staid' until
he arrived at the mansion of his friend Mr. Mervyn, upon the banks of one of the lakes of Westmoreland.

CHAPTER XVII

     Heaven first, in its mercy, taught mortals their letters,
     For ladies in limbo, and lovers in fetters,
     Or some author, who, placing his persons before ye,
     Ungallantly leaves them to write their own story.

          POPE, imitated.

When Mannering returned to England, his first object had been to place his daughter in a seminary
for female education, of established character. Not, however, finding her progress in the accomplishments
which he wished her to acquire so rapid as his impatience expected, he had withdrawn Miss Mannering
from the school at the end of the first quarter. So she had only time to form an eternal friendship
with Miss Matilda Marchmont, a young lady about her own age, which was nearly eighteen. To
her faithful eye were addressed those formidable quires which issued forth from Mervyn Hall
on the wings of the post while Miss Mannering was a guest there. The perusal of a few short
extracts from these may be necessary to render our story intelligible.

FIRST EXTRACT

'Alas! my dearest Matilda, what a tale is mine to tell! Misfortune from the cradle has set
her seal upon your unhappy friend. That we should be severed for so slight a cause--an ungrammatical
phrase in my Italian exercise, and three false notes in one of Paisiello's sonatas! But it
is a part of my father's character, of whom it is impossible to say whether I love, admire,
or fear him the most. His success in life and in war, his habit of making every obstacle yield
before the energy of his exertions, even where they seemed insurmountable--all these have given
a hasty and peremptory cast to his character, which can neither endure contradiction nor make
allowance for deficiencies. Then he is himself so very accomplished. Do you know, there was
a murmur, half confirmed too by some mysterious words which dropped from my poor mother, that
he possesses other sciences, now lost to the world, which enable the possessor to summon up
before him the dark and shadowy forms of future events! Does not the very idea of such a power,
or even of the high talent and commanding intellect which the world may mistake for it,--does
it not, dear Matilda, throw a mysterious grandeur about its possessor? You will call this romantic;
but consider I was born in the land of talisman and spell, and my childhood lulled by tales
which you can only enjoy through the gauzy frippery of a French translation. O, Matilda, I
wish you could have seen the dusky visages of my Indian attendants, bending in earnest devotion
round the magic narrative, that flowed, half poetry, half prose, from the lips of the tale-
teller! No wonder that European fiction sounds cold and meagre, after the wonderful effects
which I have seen the romances of the East produce upon their hearers.'

SECOND EXTRACT

'You are possessed, my dear Matilda, of my bosom-secret, in those sentiments with which I regard
Brown. I will not say his memory; I am convinced he lives, and is faithful. His addresses to
me were countenanced by my deceased parent, imprudently countenanced perhaps, considering the
prejudices of my father in favour of birth and rank. But I, then almost a girl, could not be
expected surely to be wiser than her under whose charge nature had placed me. My father, constantly
engaged in military duty, I saw but at rare intervals, and was taught to look up to him with
more awe than confidence. Would to Heaven it had been otherwise! It might have been better
for us all at this day!'

THIRD EXTRACT

'You ask me why I do not make known to my father that Brown yet lives, at least that he survived
the wound he received in that unhappy duel, and had written to my mother expressing his entire
convalescence, and his hope of speedily escaping from captivity. A soldier, that "in the trade
of war has oft slain men," feels probably no uneasiness at reflecting upon the supposed catastrophe
which almost turned me into stone. And should I show him that letter, does it not follow that
Brown, alive and maintaining with pertinacity the pretensions to the affections of your poor
friend for which my father formerly sought his life, would be a more formidable disturber of
Colonel Mannering's peace of mind than in his supposed grave? If he escapes from the hands
of these marauders, I am convinced he will soon be in England, and it will be then time to
consider how his existence is to be disclosed to my father. But if, alas! my earnest and confident
hope should betray me, what would it avail to tear open a mystery fraught with so many painful
recollections? My dear mother had such dread of its being known, that I think she even suffered
my father to suspect that Brown's attentions were directed towards herself, rather than permit
him to discover their real object; and O, Matilda, whatever respect I owe to the memory of
a deceased parent, let me do justice to a living one. I cannot but condemn the dubious policy
which she adopted, as unjust to my father, and highly perilous to herself and me. But peace
be with her ashes! her actions were guided by the heart rather than the head; and shall her
daughter, who inherits all her weakness, be the first to withdraw the veil from her defects?'

FOURTH EXTRACT 'MERVYN HALL.

'If India be the land of magic, this, my dearest Matilda, is the country of romance. The scenery
is such as nature brings together in her sublimest moods-sounding cataracts--hills which rear
their scathed heads to the sky--lakes that, winding up the shadowy valleys, lead at every turn
to yet more romantic recesses--rocks which catch the clouds of heaven. All the wildness of
Salvator here, and there the fairy scenes of Claude. I am happy too in finding at least one
object upon which my father can share my enthusiasm. An admirer of nature, both as an artist
and a poet, I have experienced the utmost pleasure from the observations by which he explains
the character and the effect of these brilliant specimens of her power. I wish he would settle
in this enchanting land. But his views lie still farther north, and he is at present absent
on a tour in Scotland, looking, I believe, for some purchase of land which may suit him as
a residence. He is partial, from early recollections, to that country. So, my dearest Matilda,
I must be yet farther removed from you before I am established in a home. And O how delighted
shall I be when I can say, Come, Matilda, and be the guest of your faithful Julia!

'I am at present the inmate of Mr. and Mrs. Mervyn, old friends of my father. The latter is
precisely a good sort of woman, ladylike and housewifely; but for accomplishments or fancy--good
lack, my dearest Matilda, your friend might as well seek sympathy from Mrs. Teach'em;--you
see I have not forgot school nicknames. Mervyn is a different--quite a different being from
my father, yet he amuses and endures me. He is fat and good-natured, gifted with strong shrewd
sense and some powers of humour; but having been handsome, I suppose, in his youth, has still
some pretension to be a beau garcon, as well as an enthusiastic agriculturist. I delight to
make him scramble to the tops of eminences and to the foot of waterfalls, and am obliged in
turn to admire his turnips, his lucerne, and his timothy grass. He thinks me, I fancy, a simple
romantic Miss, with some--the word will be out--beauty and some good-nature; and I hold that
the gentleman has good taste for the female outside, and do not expect he should comprehend
my sentiments farther. So he rallies, hands, and hobbles (for the dear creature has got the
gout too), and tells old stories of high life, of which he has seen a great deal; and I listen,
and smile, and look as pretty, as pleasant, and as simple as I can, and we do very well.

'But, alas! my dearest Matilda, how would time pass away, even in this paradise of romance,
tenanted as it is by a pair assorting so ill with the scenes around them, were it not for your
fidelity in replying to my uninteresting details? Pray do not fail to write three times a week
at least; you can be at no loss what to say.'

FIFTH EXTRACT

'How shall I communicate what I have now to tell! My hand and heart still flutter so much,
that the task of writing is almost impossible! Did I not say that he lived? did I not say I
would not despair? How could you suggest, my dear Matilda, that my feelings, considering I
had parted from him so young, rather arose from the warmth of my imagination than of my heart?
O I was sure that they were genuine, deceitful as the dictates of our bosom so frequently are.
But to my tale--let it be, my friend, the most sacred, as it is the most sincere, pledge of
our friendship.

'Our hours here are early--earlier than my heart, with its load of care, can compose itself
to rest. I therefore usually take a book for an hour or two after retiring to my own room,
which I think I have told you opens to a small balcony, looking down upon that beautiful lake
of which I attempted to give you a slight sketch. Mervyn Hall, being partly an ancient building,
and constructed with a view to defence, is situated on the verge of the lake. A stone dropped
from the projecting balcony plunges into water deep enough to float a skiff. I had left my
window partly unbarred, that, before I went to bed, I might, according to my custom, look out
and see the moonlight shining upon the lake. I was deeply engaged with that beautiful scene
in the "Merchant of Venice" where two lovers, describing the stillness of a summer night, enhance
on each other its charms, and was lost in the associations of story and of feeling which it
awakens, when I heard upon the lake the sound of a flageolet. I have told you it was Brown's
favourite instrument. Who could touch it in a night which, though still and serene, was too
cold, and too late in the year, to invite forth any wanderer for mere pleasure? I drew yet
nearer the window, and hearkened with breathless attention; the sounds paused a space, were
then resumed, paused again, and again reached my ear, ever coming nearer and nearer. At length
I distinguished plainly that little Hindu air which you called my favourite. I have told you
by whom it was taught me; the instrument, the tones, were his own! Was it earthly music, or
notes passing on the wind, to warn me of his death?

'It was some time ere I could summon courage to step on the balcony; nothing could have emboldened
me to do so but the strong conviction of my mind that he was still alive, and that we should
again meet; but that conviction did embolden me, and I ventured, though with a throbbing heart.
There was a small skiff with a single person. O, Matilda, it was himself! I knew his appearance
after so long an absence, and through the shadow of the night, as perfectly as if we had parted
yesterday, and met again in the broad sunshine! He guided his boat under the balcony, and spoke
to me; I hardly knew what he said, or what I replied. Indeed, I could scarcely speak for weeping,
but they were joyful tears. We were disturbed by the barking of a dog at some distance, and
parted, but not before he had conjured me to prepare to meet him at the same place and hour
this evening.

'But where and to what is all this tending? Can I answer this question? I cannot. Heaven, that
saved him from death and delivered him from captivity, that saved my father, too, from shedding
the blood of one who would not have blemished a hair of his head, that Heaven must guide me
out of this labyrinth. Enough for me the firm resolution that Matilda shall not blush for her
friend, my father for his daughter, nor my lover for her on whom he has fixed his affection.'

CHAPTER XVIII

     Talk with a man out of a window!--a proper saying.

          Much Ado about Nothing.

We must proceed with our extracts from Miss Mannering's letters, which throw light upon natural
good sense, principle, and feelings, blemished by an imperfect education and the folly of a
misjudging mother, who called her husband in her heart a tyrant until she feared him as such,
and read romances until she became so enamoured of the complicated intrigues which they contain
as to assume the management of a little family novel of her own, and constitute her daughter,
a girl of sixteen, the principal heroine. She delighted in petty mystery and intrigue and secrets,
and yet trembled at the indignation which these paltry manoeuvres excited in her husband's
mind. Thus she frequently entered upon a scheme merely for pleasure, or perhaps for the love
of contradiction, plunged deeper into it than she was aware, endeavoured to extricate herself
by new arts, or to cover her error by dissimulation, became involved in meshes of her own weaving,
and was forced to carry on, for fear of discovery, machinations which she had at first resorted
to in mere wantonness.

Fortunately the young man whom she so imprudently introduced into her intimate society, and
encouraged to look up to her daughter, had a fund of principle and honest pride which rendered
him a safer intimate than Mrs. Mannering ought to have dared to hope or expect. The obscurity
of his birth could alone be objected to him; in every other respect,

     With prospects bright upon the world he came,
     Pure love of virtue, strong desire of fame,
     Men watched the way his lofty mind would take,
     And all foretold the progress he would make.

But it could not be expected that he should resist the snare which Mrs. Mannering's imprudence
threw in his way, or avoid becoming attached to a young lady whose beauty and manners might
have justified his passion, even in scenes where these are more generally met with than in
a remote fortress in our Indian settlements. The scenes which followed have been partly detailed
in Mannering's letter to Mr. Mervyn; and to expand what is there stated into farther explanation
would be to abuse the patience of our readers.

We shall therefore proceed with our promised extracts from Miss Mannering's letters to her friend.

SIXTH EXTRACT

'I have seen him again, Matilda--seen him twice. I have used every argument to convince him
that this secret intercourse is dangerous to us both; I even pressed him to pursue his views
of fortune without farther regard to me, and to consider my peace of mind as sufficiently secured
by the knowledge that he had not fallen under my father's sword. He answers--but how can I
detail all he has to answer? He claims those hopes as his due which my mother permitted him
to entertain, and would persuade me to the madness of a union without my father's sanction.
But to this, Matilda, I will not be persuaded. I have resisted, I have subdued, the rebellious
feelings which arose to aid his plea; yet how to extricate myself from this unhappy labyrinth
in which fate and folly have entangled us both!

'I have thought upon it, Matilda, till my head is almost giddy; nor can I conceive a better
plan than to make a full confession to my father. He deserves it, for his kindness is unceasing;
and I think I have observed in his character, since I have studied it more nearly, that his
harsher feelings are chiefly excited where he suspects deceit or imposition; and in that respect,
perhaps, his character was formerly misunderstood by one who was dear to him. He has, too,
a tinge of romance in his disposition; and I have seen the narrative of a generous action,
a trait of heroism, or virtuous self-denial, extract tears from him which refused to flow at
a tale of mere distress. But then Brown urges that he is personally hostile to him. And the
obscurity of his birth, that would be indeed a stumbling-block. O, Matilda, I hope none of
your ancestors ever fought at Poictiers or Agincourt! If it were not for the veneration which
my father attaches to the memory of old Sir Miles Mannering, I should make out my explanation
with half the tremor which must now attend it.'

SEVENTH EXTRACT

'I have this instant received your letter--your most welcome letter! Thanks, my dearest friend,
for your sympathy and your counsels; I can only repay them with unbounded confidence.

'You ask me what Brown is by origin, that his descent should be so unpleasing to my father.
His story is shortly told. He is of Scottish extraction, but, being left an orphan, his education
was undertaken by a family of relations settled in Holland. He was bred to commerce, and sent
very early to one of our settlements in the East, where his guardian had a correspondent. But
this correspondent was dead when he arrived in India, and he had no other resource than to
offer himself as a clerk to a counting- house. The breaking out of the war, and the straits
to which we were at first reduced, threw the army open to all young men who were disposed to
embrace that mode of life; and Brown, whose genius had a strong military tendency, was the
first to leave what might have been the road to wealth, and to choose that of fame. The rest
of his history is well known to you; but conceive the irritation of my father, who despises
commerce (though, by the way, the best part of his property was made in that honourable profession
by my great-uncle), and has a particular antipathy to the Dutch--think with what ear he would
be likely to receive proposals for his only child from Vanbeest Brown, educated for charity
by the house of Vanbeest and Vanbruggen! O, Matilda, it will never do; nay, so childish am
I, I hardly can help sympathising with his aristocratic feelings. Mrs. Vanbeest Brown! The
name has little to recommend it, to be sure. What children we are!'

EIGHTH EXTRACT

'It is all over now, Matilda! I shall never have courage to tell my father; nay, most deeply
do I fear he has already learned my secret from another quarter, which will entirely remove
the grace of my communication, and ruin whatever gleam of hope I had ventured to connect with
it. Yesternight Brown came as usual, and his flageolet on the lake announced his approach.
We had agreed that he should continue to use this signal. These romantic lakes attract numerous
visitors, who indulge their enthusiasm in visiting the scenery at all hours, and we hoped that,
if Brown were noticed from the house, he might pass for one of those admirers of nature, who
was giving vent to his feelings through the medium of music. The sounds might also be my apology,
should I be observed on the balcony. But last night, while I was eagerly enforcing my plan
of a full confession to my father, which he as earnestly deprecated, we heard the window of
Mr. Mervyn's library, which is under my room, open softly. I signed to Brown to make his retreat,
and immediately reentered, with some faint hopes that our interview had not been observed.

'But, alas! Matilda, these hopes vanished the instant I beheld Mr. Mervyn's countenance at
breakfast the next morning. He looked so provokingly intelligent and confidential, that, had
I dared, I could have been more angry than ever I was in my life; but I must be on good behaviour,
and my walks are now limited within his farm precincts, where the good gentleman can amble
along by my side without inconvenience. I have detected him once or twice attempting to sound
my thoughts, and watch the expression of my countenance. He has talked of the flageolet more
than once, and has, at different times, made eulogiums upon the watchfulness and ferocity of
his dogs, and the regularity with which the keeper makes his rounds with a loaded fowling-piece.
He mentioned even man-traps and springguns. I should be loth to affront my father's old friend
in his own house; but I do long to show him that I am my father's daughter, a fact of which
Mr. Mervyn will certainly be convinced if ever I trust my voice and temper with a reply to
these indirect hints. Of one thing I am certain--I am grateful to him on that account--he has
not told Mrs. Mervyn. Lord help me, I should have had such lectures about the dangers of love
and the night air on the lake, the risk arising from colds and fortune- hunters, the comfort
and convenience of sack-whey and closed windows! I cannot help trifling, Matilda, though my
heart is sad enough. What Brown will do I cannot guess. I presume, however, the fear of detection
prevents his resuming his nocturnal visits. He lodges at an inn on the opposite shore of the
lake, under the name, he tells me, of Dawson; he has a bad choice in names, that must be allowed.
He has not left the army, I believe, but he says nothing of his present views.

'To complete my anxiety, my father is returned suddenly, and in high displeasure. Our good
hostess, as I learned from a bustling conversation between her housekeeper and her, had no
expectation of seeing him for a week; but I rather suspect his arrival was no surprise to his
friend Mr. Mervyn. His manner to me was singularly cold and constrained, sufficiently so to
have damped all the courage with which I once resolved to throw myself on his generosity. He
lays the blame of his being discomposed and out of humour to the loss of a purchase in the
south-west of Scotland on which he had set his heart; but I do not suspect his equanimity of
being so easily thrown off its balance. His first excursion was with Mr. Mervyn's barge across
the lake to the inn I have mentioned. You may imagine the agony with which I waited his return!
Had he recognized Brown, who can guess the consequence! He returned, however, apparently without
having made any discovery. I understand that, in consequence of his late disappointment, he
means now to hire a house in the neighbourhood of this same Ellangowan, of which I am doomed
to hear so much; he seems to think it probable that the estate for which he wishes may soon
be again in the market. I will not send away this letter until I hear more distinctly what
are his intentions.'

'I have now had an interview with my father, as confidential as, I presume, he means to allow
me. He requested me to-day, after breakfast, to walk with him into the library; my knees, Matilda,
shook under me, and it is no exaggeration to say I could scarce follow him into the room. I
feared I knew not what. From my childhood I had seen all around him tremble at his frown. He
motioned me to seat myself, and I never obeyed a command so readily, for, in truth, I could
hardly stand. He himself continued to walk up and down the room. You have seen my father, and
noticed, I recollect, the remarkably expressive cast of his features. His eyes are naturally
rather light in colour, but agitation or anger gives them a darker and more fiery glance; he
has a custom also of drawing in his lips when much moved, which implies a combat between native
ardour of temper and the habitual power of self-command. This was the first time we had been
alone since his return from Scotland, and, as he betrayed these tokens of agitation, I had
little doubt that he was about to enter upon the subject I most dreaded.

'To my unutterable relief, I found I was mistaken, and that, whatever he knew of Mr. Mervyn's
suspicions or discoveries, he did not intend to converse with me on the topic. Coward as I
was, I was inexpressibly relieved, though, if he had really investigated the reports which
may have come to his ear, the reality could have been nothing to what his suspicions might
have conceived. But, though my spirits rose high at my unexpected escape, I had not courage
myself to provoke the discussion, and remained silent to receive his commands.

'"Julia," he said, "my agent writes me from Scotland that he has been able to hire a house
for me, decently furnished, and with the necessary accommodation for my family; it is within
three miles of that I had designed to purchase." Then he made a pause, and seemed to expect
an answer.

'"Whatever place of residence suits you, sir, must be perfectly agreeable to me."

'"Umph! I do not propose, however, Julia, that you shall reside quite alone in this house during
the winter."

'"Mr. and Mrs. Mervyn," thought I to myself.--"Whatever company is agreeable to you, sir,"
I answered aloud.

'"O, there is a little too much of this universal spirit of submission, an excellent disposition
in action, but your constantly repeating the jargon of it puts me in mind of the eternal salaams
of our black dependents in the East. In short, Julia, I know you have a relish for society,
and I intend to invite a young person, the daughter of a deceased friend, to spend a few months
with us."

'"Not a governess, for the love of Heaven, papa!" exclaimed poor I, my fears at that moment
totally getting the better of my prudence.

'"No, not a governess, Miss Mannering," replied the Colonel, somewhat sternly, "but a young
lady from whose excellent example, bred as she has been in the school of adversity, I trust
you may learn the art to govern yourself."

'To answer this was trenching upon too dangerous ground, so there was a pause.

'"Is the young lady a Scotchwoman, papa?"

'"Yes"--drily enough.

'"Has she much of the accent, sir?"

'"Much of the devil!" answered my father hastily; "do you think I care about a's and aa's,
and i's and ee's,? I tell you, Julia, I am serious in the matter. You have a genius for friendship,
that is, for running up intimacies which you call such." (Was not this very harshly said, Matilda?)
"Now I wish to give you an opportunity at least to make one deserving friend, and therefore
I have resolved that this young lady shall be a member of my family for some months, and I
expect you will pay to her that attention which is due to misfortune and virtue."

'"Certainly, sir. Is my future friend red-haired?"

'He gave me one of his stern glances; you will say, perhaps, I deserved it; but I think the
deuce prompts me with teasing questions on some occasions.

'"She is as superior to you, my love, in personal appearance as in prudence and affection for
her friends."

'"Lord, papa, do you think that superiority a recommendation? Well, sir, but I see you are
going to take all this too seriously; whatever the young lady may be, I am sure, being recommended
by you, she shall have no reason to complain of my want of attention." After a pause--"Has
she any attendant? because you know I must provide for her proper accommodation if she is without
one."

'"N--no--no, not properly an attendant; the chaplain who lived with her father is a very good
sort of man, and I believe I shall make room for him in the house."

"'Chaplain, papa? Lord bless us!"

'"Yes, Miss Mannering, chaplain; is there anything very new in that word? Had we not a chaplain
at the Residence, when we were in India?"

'"Yes, papa, but you was a commandant then."

'"So I will be now, Miss Mannering, in my own family at least."

'"Certainly, sir. But will he read us the Church of England service?"

'The apparent simplicity with which I asked this question got the better of his gravity. "Come,
Julia," he said, "you are a sad girl, but I gain nothing by scolding you. Of these two strangers,
the young lady is one whom you cannot fail, I think, to love; the person whom, for want of
a better term, I called chaplain, is a very worthy, and somewhat ridiculous personage, who
will never find out you laugh at him if you don't laugh very loud indeed."

'"Dear papa, I am delighted with that part of his character. But pray, is the house we are
going to as pleasantly situated as this?"

'"Not perhaps as much to your taste; there is no lake under the windows, and you will be under
the necessity of having all your music within doors."

'This last coup de main ended the keen encounter of our wits, for you may believe, Matilda,
it quelled all my courage to reply.

'Yet my spirits, as perhaps will appear too manifest from this dialogue, have risen insensibly,
and, as it were, in spite of myself. Brown alive, and free, and in England! Embarrassment and
anxiety I can and must endure. We leave this in two days for our new residence. I shall not
fail to let you know what I think of these Scotch inmates, whom I have but too much reason
to believe my father means to quarter in his house as a brace of honourable spies; a sort of
female Rozencrantz and reverend Guildenstern, one in tartan petticoats, the other in a cassock.
What a contrast to the society I would willingly have secured to myself! I shall write instantly
on my arriving at our new place of abode, and acquaint my dearest Matilda with the farther
fates of--her

'JULIA MANNERING.'

CHAPTER XIX

     Which sloping hills around inclose,
     Where many a beech and brown oak grows
     Beneath whose dark and branching bowers
     Its tides a far-fam'd river pours,
     By natures beauties taught to please,
     Sweet Tusculan of rural easel

          WARTON.

Woodbourne, the habitation which Mannering, by Mr. Mac-Morlan's mediation, had hired for a
season, was a large comfortable mansion, snugly situated beneath a hill covered with wood,
which shrouded the house upon the north and east; the front looked upon a little lawn bordered
by a grove of old trees; beyond were some arable fields, extending down to the river, which
was seen from the windows of the house. A tolerable, though old-fashioned garden, a well-stocked
dove-cot, and the possession of any quantity of ground which the convenience of the family
might require, rendered the place in every respect suitable, as the advertisements have it,
'for the accommodation of a genteel family.'

Here, then, Mannering resolved, for some time at least, to set up the staff of his rest. Though
an East-Indian, he was not partial to an ostentatious display of wealth. In fact, he was too
proud a man to be a vain one. He resolved, therefore, to place himself upon the footing of
a country gentleman of easy fortune, without assuming, or permitting his household to assume,
any of the faste which then was considered as characteristic of a nabob.

He had still his eye upon the purchase of Ellangowan, which Mac- Morlan conceived Mr. Glossin
would be compelled to part with, as some of the creditors disputed his title to retain so large
a part of the purchase-money in his own hands, and his power to pay it was much questioned.
In that case Mac-Morlan was assured he would readily give up his bargain, if tempted with something
above the price which he had stipulated to pay. It may seem strange that Mannering was so much
attached to a spot which he had only seen once, and that for a short time, in early life. But
the circumstances which passed there had laid a strong hold on his imagination. There seemed
to be a fate which conjoined the remarkable passages of his own family history with those of
the inhabitants of Ellangowan, and he felt a mysterious desire to call the terrace his own
from which he had read in the book of heaven a fortune strangely accomplished in the person
of the infant heir of that family, and corresponding so closely with one which had been strikingly
fulfilled in his own. Besides, when once this thought had got possession of his imagination,
he could not, without great reluctance, brook the idea of his plan being defeated, and by a
fellow like Glossin. So pride came to the aid of fancy, and both combined to fortify his resolution
to buy the estate if possible.

Let us do Mannering justice. A desire to serve the distressed had also its share in determining
him. He had considered the advantage which Julia might receive from the company of Lucy Bertram,
whose genuine prudence and good sense could so surely be relied upon. This idea had become
much stronger since Mac-Morlan had confided to him, under the solemn seal of secrecy, the whole
of her conduct towards young Hazlewood. To propose to her to become an inmate in his family,
if distant from the scenes of her youth and the few whom she called friends, would have been
less delicate; but at Woodbourne she might without difficulty be induced to become the visitor
of a season, without being depressed into the situation of an humble companion. Lucy Bertram,
with some hesitation, accepted the invitation to reside a few weeks with Miss Mannering. She
felt too well that, however the Colonel's delicacy might disguise the truth, his principal
motive was a generous desire to afford her his countenance and protection, which his high connexions,
and higher character, were likely to render influential in the neighbourhood.

About the same time the orphan girl received a letter from Mrs. Bertram, the relation to whom
she had written, as cold and comfortless as could well be imagined. It inclosed, indeed, a
small sum of money, but strongly recommended economy, and that Miss Bertram should board herself
in some quiet family, either at Kippletringan or in the neighbourhood, assuring her that, though
her own income was very scanty, she would not see her kinswoman want. Miss Bertram shed some
natural tears over this cold-hearted epistle; for in her mother's time this good lady had been
a guest at Ellangowan for nearly three years, and it was only upon succeeding to a property
of about L400 a year that she had taken farewell of that hospitable mansion, which otherwise
might have had the honour of sheltering her until the death of its owner. Lucy was strongly
inclined to return the paltry donation, which, after some struggles with avarice, pride had
extorted from the old lady. But on consideration she contented herself with writing that she
accepted it as a loan, which, she hoped in a short time to repay, and consulted her relative
upon the invitation she had received from Colonel and Miss Mannering. This time the answer
came in course of post, so fearful was Mrs. Bertram that some frivolous delicacy, or nonsense,
as she termed it, might induce her cousin to reject such a promising offer, and thereby at
the same time to leave herself still a burden upon her relations. Lucy, therefore, had no alternative,
unless she preferred continuing a burden upon the worthy Mac-Morlans, who were too liberal
to be rich. Those kinsfolk who formerly requested the favour of her company had of late either
silently, or with expressions of resentment that she should have preferred Mac- Morlan's invitation
to theirs, gradually withdrawn their notice.

The fate of Dominie Sampson would have been deplorable had it depended upon any one except
Mannering, who was an admirer of originality, for a separation from Lucy Bertram would have
certainly broken his heart. Mac-Morlan had given a full account of his proceedings towards
the daughter of his patron. The answer was a request from Mannering to know whether the Dominie
still possessed that admirable virtue of taciturnity by which he was so notably distinguished
at Ellangowan. Mac-Morlan replied in the affirmative. 'Let Mr. Sampson know,' said the Colonel's
next letter, 'that I shall want his assistance to catalogue and put in order the library of
my uncle, the bishop, which I have ordered to be sent down by sea. I shall also want him to
copy and arrange some papers. Fix his salary at what you think befitting. Let the poor man
be properly dressed, and accompany his young lady to Woodbourne.'

Honest Mac-Morlan received this mandate with great joy, but pondered much upon executing that
part of it which related to newly attiring the worthy Dominie. He looked at him with a scrutinising
eye, and it was but too plain that his present garments were daily waxing more deplorable.
To give him money, and bid him go and furnish himself, would be only giving him the means of
making himself ridiculous; for when such a rare event arrived to Mr. Sampson as the purchase
of new garments, the additions which he made to his wardrobe by the guidance of his own taste
usually brought all the boys of the village after him for many days. On the other hand, to
bring a tailor to measure him, and send home his clothes, as for a school-boy, would probably
give offence. At length Mac-Morlan resolved to consult Miss Bertram, and request her interference.
She assured him that, though she could not pretend to superintend a gentleman's wardrobe, nothing
was more easy than to arrange the Dominie's.

'At Ellangowan,' she said, 'whenever my poor father thought any part of the Dominie's dress
wanted renewal, a servant was directed to enter his room by night, for he sleeps as fast as
a dormouse, carry off the old vestment, and leave the new one; nor could any one observe that
the Dominie exhibited the least consciousness of the change put upon him on such occasions.'

Mac-Morlan, in conformity with Miss Bertram's advice, procured a skilful artist, who, on looking
at the Dominie attentively, undertook to make for him two suits of clothes, one black and one
raven-grey, and even engaged that they should fit him--as well at least (so the tailor qualified
his enterprise) as a man of such an out-of-the-way build could be fitted by merely human needles
and shears. When this fashioner had accomplished his task, and the dresses were brought home,
Mac-Morlan, judiciously resolving to accomplish his purpose by degrees, withdrew that evening
an important part of his dress, and substituted the new article of raiment in its stead. Perceiving
that this passed totally without notice, he next ventured on the waistcoat, and lastly on the
coat. When fully metamorphosed, and arrayed for the first time in his life in a decent dress,
they did observe that the Dominie seemed to have some indistinct and embarrassing consciousness
that a change had taken place on his outward man. Whenever they observed this dubious expression
gather upon his countenance, accompanied with a glance that fixed now upon the sleeve of his
coat, now upon the knees of his breeches, where he probably missed some antique patching and
darning, which, being executed with blue thread upon a black ground, had somewhat the effect
of embroidery, they always took care to turn his attention into some other channel, until his
garments, 'by the aid of use, cleaved to their mould.' The only remark he was ever known to
make on the subject was, that 'the air of a town like Kippletringan seemed favourable unto
wearing apparel, for he thought his coat looked almost as new as the first day he put it on,
which was when he went to stand trial for his license as a preacher.'

When the Dominie first heard the liberal proposal of Colonel Mannering, he turned a jealous
and doubtful glance towards Miss Bertram, as if he suspected that the project involved their
separation; but when Mr. Mac-Morlan hastened to explain that she would be a guest at Woodbourne
for some time, he rubbed his huge hands together, and burst into a portentous sort of chuckle,
like that of the Afrite in the tale of 'The Caliph Vathek.' After this unusual explosion of
satisfaction, he remained quite passive in all the rest of the transaction.

It had been settled that Mr. and Mrs. Mac-Morlan should take possession of the house a few
days before Mannering's arrival, both to put everything in perfect order and to make the transference
of Miss Bertram's residence from their family to his as easy and delicate as possible. Accordingly,
in the beginning of the month of December the party were settled at Woodbourne.

CHAPTER XX

    A gigantic genius fit to grapple with whole libraries

        --BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON

The appointed day arrived when the Colonel and Miss Mannering were expected at Woodbourne.
The hour was fast approaching, and the little circle within doors had each their separate subjects
of anxiety. Mac-Morlan naturally desired to attach to himself the patronage and countenance
of a person of Mannering's wealth and consequence. He was aware, from his knowledge of mankind,
that Mannering, though generous and benevolent, had the foible of expecting and exacting a
minute compliance with his directions. He was therefore racking his recollection to discover
if everything had been arranged to meet the Colonel's wishes and instructions, and, under this
uncertainty of mind, he traversed the house more than once from the garret to the stables.
Mrs. Mac-Morlan revolved in a lesser orbit, comprehending the dining-parlour, housekeeper's
room, and kitchen. She was only afraid that the dinner might be spoiled, to the discredit of
her housewifely accomplishments. Even the usual passiveness of the Dominie was so far disturbed
that he twice went to the window which looked out upon the avenue, and twice exclaimed, 'Why
tarry the wheels of their chariot?' Lucy, the most quiet of the expectants, had her own melancholy
thoughts. She was now about to be consigned to the charge, almost to the benevolence, of strangers,
with whose character, though hitherto very amiably, displayed, she was but imperfectly acquainted.
The moments, therefore, of suspense passed anxiously and heavily.

At length the trampling of horses and the sound of wheels were heard. The servants, who had
already arrived, drew up in the hall to receive their master and mistress, with an importance
and EMPRESSEMENT which to Lucy, who had never been accustomed to society, or witnessed what
is called the manners of the great, had something alarming. Mac-Morlan went to the door to
receive the master and mistress of the family, and in a few moments they were in the drawing-room.

Mannering, who had travelled as usual on horseback, entered with his daughter hanging upon
his arm. She was of the middle size, or rather less, but formed with much elegance; piercing
dark eyes, and jet-black hair of great length, corresponded with the vivacity and intelligence
of features in which were blended a little haughtiness, and a little bashfulness, a great deal
of shrewdness, and some power of humorous sarcasm. 'I shall not like her,' was the result of
Lucy Bertram's first glance; 'and yet; I rather think I shall,' was the thought excited by
the second.

Miss Mannering was furred and mantled up to the throat against the severity of the weather;
the Colonel in his military great-coat. He bowed to Mrs. Mac-Morlan, whom his daughter also
acknowledged with a fashionable courtesy, not dropped so low as at all to incommode her person.
The Colonel then led his daughter up to Miss Bertram, and, taking the hand of the latter, with
an air of great kindness and almost paternal affection, he said, 'Julia, this is the young
lady whom I hope our good friends have prevailed on to honour our house with a long visit.
I shall be much gratified indeed if you can render Woodbourne as pleasant to Miss Bertram as
Ellangowan was to me when I first came as a wanderer into this country.'

The young lady courtesied acquiescence, and took her new friend's hand. Mannering now turned
his eye upon the Dominie, who had made bows since his entrance into the room, sprawling out
his leg, and bending his back like an automaton, which continues to repeat the same movement
until the motion is stopt by the artist. 'My good friend, Mr. Sampson,' said Mannering, introducing
him to his daughter, and darting at the same time a reproving glance at the damsel, notwithstanding
he had himself some disposition to join her too obvious inclination to risibility; 'this gentleman,
Julia, is to put my books in order when they arrive, and I expect to derive great advantage
from his extensive learning.'

'I am sure we are obliged to the gentleman, papa, and, to borrow a ministerial mode of giving
thanks, I shall never forget the extraordinary countenance he has been pleased to show us.
But, Miss Bertram,' continued she hastily, for her father's brows began to darken, 'we have
travelled a good way; will you permit me to retire before dinner?'

This intimation dispersed all the company save the Dominie, who, having no idea of dressing
but when he was to rise, or of undressing but when he meant to go to bed, remained by himself,
chewing the cud of a mathematical demonstration, until the company again assembled in the drawing-room,
and from thence adjourned to the dining-parlour.

When the day was concluded, Mannering took an opportunity to hold a minute's conversation with
his daughter in private.

'How do you like your guests, Julia?'

'O, Miss Bertram of all things; but this is a most original parson; why, dear sir, no human
being will be able to look at him without laughing.'

'While he is under my roof, Julia, every one must learn to do so.'

'Lord, papa, the very footmen could not keep their gravity!'

'Then let them strip off my livery,' said the Colonel, 'and laugh at their leisure. Mr. Sampson
is a man whom I esteem for his simplicity and benevolence of character.'

'O, I am convinced of his generosity too,' said this lively lady; 'he cannot lift a spoonful
of soup to his mouth without bestowing a share on everything round.'

'Julia, you are incorrigible; but remember I expect your mirth on this subject to be under
such restraint that it shall neither offend this worthy man's feelings nor those of Miss Bertram,
who may be more apt to feel upon his account than he on his own. And so, goodnight, my dear;
and recollect that, though Mr. Sampson has certainly not sacrificed to the graces, there are
many things in this world more truly deserving of ridicule than either awkwardness of manners
or simplicity of character.'

In a day or two Mr. and Mrs. Mac-Morlan left Woodbourne, after taking an affectionate farewell
of their late guest. The household were now settled in their new quarters. The young ladies
followed their studies and amusements together. Colonel Mannering was agreeably surprised to
find that Miss Bertram was well skilled in French and Italian, thanks to the assiduity of Dominie
Sampson, whose labour had silently made him acquainted with most modern as well as ancient
languages. Of music she knew little or nothing, but her new friend undertook to give her lessons,
in exchange for which she was to learn from Lucy the habit of walking, and the art of riding,
and the courage necessary to defy the season. Mannering was careful to substitute for their
amusement in the evening such books as might convey some solid instruction with entertainment,
and, as he read aloud with great skill and taste, the winter nights passed pleasantly away.

Society was quickly formed where there were so many inducements. Most of the families of the
neighbourhood visited Colonel Mannering, and he was soon able to select from among them such
as best suited his taste and habits. Charles Hazlewood held a distinguished place in his favour,
and was a frequent visitor, not without the consent and approbation of his parents; for there
was no knowing, they thought, what assiduous attention might produce, and the beautiful Miss
Mannering, of high family, with an Indian fortune, was a prize worth looking after. Dazzled
with such a prospect, they never considered the risk which had once been some object of their
apprehension, that his boyish and inconsiderate fancy might form an attachment to the penniless
Lucy Bertram, who had nothing on earth to recommend her but a pretty face, good birth, and
a most amiable disposition. Mannering was more prudent. He considered himself acting as Miss
Bertram's guardian, and, while he did not think it incumbent upon him altogether to check her
intercourse with a young gentleman for whom, excepting in wealth, she was a match in every
respect, he laid it under such insensible restraints as might prevent any engagement or ECLAIRCISSEMENT
taking place until the young man should have seen a little more of life and of the world, and
have attained that age when he might be considered as entitled to judge for himself in the
matter in which his happiness was chiefly interested.

While these matters engaged the attention of the other members of the Woodbourne family, Dominie
Sampson was occupied, body and soul, in the arrangement of the late bishop's library, which
had been sent from Liverpool by sea, and conveyed by thirty or forty carts from the sea-port
at which it was landed. Sampson's joy at beholding the ponderous contents of these chests arranged
upon the floor of the large apartment, from whence he was to transfer them to the shelves,
baffles all description. He grinned like an ogre, swung his arms like the sails of a wind-mill,
shouted 'Prodigious' till the roof rung to his raptures. 'He had never,' he said, 'seen so
many books together, except in the College Library'; and now his dignity and delight in being
superintendent of the collection raised him, in his own opinion, almost to the rank of the
academical librarian, whom he had always regarded as the greatest and happiest man on earth.
Neither were his transports diminished upon a hasty examination of the contents of these volumes.
Some, indeed, of BELLES LETTRES, poems, plays, or memoirs he tossed indignantly aside, with
the implied censure of 'psha,' or 'frivolous'; but the greater and bulkier part of the collection
bore a very different character. The deceased prelate, a divine of the old and deeply-learned
cast, had loaded his shelves with volumes which displayed the antique and venerable attributes
so happily described by a modern poet:--

     That weight of wood, with leathern coat o'erlaid,
     Those ample clasps of solid metal made,
     The close-press'd leaves unoped for many an age,
     The dull red edging of the well-fill'd page,
     On the broad back the stubborn ridges roll'd,
     Where yet the title stands in tarnish'd gold.

Books of theology and controversial divinity, commentaries, and polyglots, sets of the Fathers,
and sermons which might each furnish forth ten brief discourses of modern date, books of science,
ancient and modern, classical authors in their best and rarest forms--such formed the late
bishop's venerable library, and over such the eye of Dominie Sampson gloated with rapture.
He entered them in the catalogue in his best running hand, forming each letter with the accuracy
of a lover writing a valentine, and placed each individually on the destined shelf with all
the reverence which I have seen a lady pay to a jar of old china. With all this zeal his labours
advanced slowly. He often opened a volume when halfway up the library steps, fell upon some
interesting passage, and, without shifting his inconvenient posture, continued immersed in
the fascinating perusal until the servant pulled him by the skirts to assure him that dinner
waited. He then repaired to the parlour, bolted his food down his capacious throat in squares
of three inches, answered ay and no at random to whatever question was asked at him, and again
hurried back to the library, as soon as his napkin was removed, and sometimes with it hanging
round his neck like a pinafore;--

     How happily the days of Thalaba went by!

And, having thus left the principal characters of our tale in a situation which, being sufficiently
comfortable to themselves, is, of course, utterly uninteresting to the reader, we take up the
history of a person who has as yet only been named, and who has all the interest that uncertainty
and misfortune can give.

CHAPTER XXI

     What say'st thou, Wise One? that all powerful Love
     Can fortune's strong impediments remove,
     Nor is it strange that worth should wed to worth,
     The pride of genius with the pride of birth.

          CRABBE.

V. Brown--I will not give at full length his thrice unhappy name-- had been from infancy a
ball for fortune to spurn at; but nature had given him that elasticity of mind which rises
higher from the rebound. His form was tall, manly, and active, and his features corresponded
with his person; for, although far from regular, they had an expression of intelligence and
good-humour, and when he spoke, or was particularly animated, might be decidedly pronounced
interesting. His manner indicated the military profession, which had been his choice, and in
which he had now attained the rank of captain, the person who succeeded Colonel Mannering in
his command having laboured to repair the injustice which Brown had sustained by that gentleman's
prejudice against him. But this, as well as his liberation from captivity, had taken place
after Mannering left India. Brown followed at no distant period, his regiment being recalled
home. His first inquiry was after the family of Mannering, and, easily learning their route
northward, he followed it with the purpose of resuming his addresses to Julia. With her father
he deemed he had no measures to keep; for, ignorant of the more venomous belief which had been
instilled into the Colonel's mind, he regarded him as an oppressive aristocrat, who had used
his power as a commanding officer to deprive him of the preferment due to his behaviour, and
who had forced upon him a personal quarrel without any better reason than his attentions to
a pretty young woman, agreeable to herself, and permitted and countenanced by her mother. He
was determined, therefore, to take no rejection unless from the young lady herself, believing
that the heavy misfortunes of his painful wound and imprisonment were direct injuries received
from the father, which might dispense with his using much ceremony towards him. How far his
scheme had succeeded when his nocturnal visit was discovered by Mr. Mervyn, our readers are
already informed.

Upon this unpleasant occurrence Captain Brown absented himself from the inn in which he had
resided under the name of Dawson, so that Colonel Mannering's attempts to discover and trace
him were unavailing. He resolved, however, that no difficulties should prevent his continuing
his enterprise while Julia left him a ray of hope. The interest he had secured in her bosom
was such as she had been unable to conceal from him, and with all the courage of romantic gallantry
he determined upon perseverance. But we believe the reader will be as well pleased to learn
his mode of thinking and intention from his own communication to his special friend and confidant,
Captain Delaserre, a Swiss gentleman who had a company in his regiment.

EXTRACT

'Let me hear from you soon, dear Delaserre. Remember, I can learn nothing about regimental
affairs but through your friendly medium, and I long to know what has become of Ayre's court-martial,
and whether Elliot gets the majority; also how recruiting comes on, and how the young officers
like the mess. Of our kind friend the Lieutenant-Colonel I need ask nothing; I saw him as I
passed through Nottingham, happy in the bosom of his family. What a happiness it is, Philip,
for us poor devils, that we have a little resting-place between the camp and the grave, if
we can manage to escape disease, and steel, and lead, and the effects of hard living. A retired
old soldier is always a graceful and respected character. He grumbles a little now and then,
but then his is licensed murmuring; were a lawyer, or a physician, or a clergyman to breathe
a complaint of hard luck or want of preferment, a hundred tongues would blame his own incapacity
as the cause. But the most stupid veteran that ever faltered out the thrice-told tale of a
siege and a battle, and a cock and a bottle, is listened to with sympathy and reverence when
he shakes his thin locks and talks with indignation of the boys that are put over his head.
And you and I, Delaserre, foreigners both--for what am I the better that I was originally a
Scotchman, since, could I prove my descent, the English would hardly acknowledge me a countryman?--we
may boast that we have fought out our preferment, and gained that by the sword which we had
not money to compass otherwise. The English are a wise people. While they praise themselves,
and affect to undervalue all other nations, they leave us, luckily, trap-doors and back-doors
open, by which we strangers, less favoured by nature, may arrive at a share of their advantages.
And thus they are in some respects like a boastful landlord, who exalts the value and flavour
of his six-years-old mutton, while he is delighted to dispense a share of it to all the company.
In short, you, whose proud family, and I, whose hard fate, made us soldiers of fortune, have
the pleasant recollection that in the British service, stop where we may upon our career, it
is only for want of money to pay the turnpike, and not from our being prohibited to travel
the road. If, therefore, you can persuade little Weischel to come into OURS, for God's sake
let him buy the ensigncy, live prudently, mind his duty, and trust to the fates for promotion.

'And now, I hope you are expiring with curiosity to learn the end of my romance. I told you
I had deemed it convenient to make a few days' tour on foot among the mountains of Westmoreland
with Dudley, a young English artist with whom I have formed some acquaintance. A fine fellow
this, you must know, Delaserre: he paints tolerably, draws beautifully, converses well, and
plays charmingly on the flute; and, though thus well entitled to be a coxcomb of talent, is,
in fact, a modest unpretending young man. On our return from our little tour I learned that
the enemy had been reconnoitring. Mr. Mervyn's barge had crossed the lake, I was informed by
my landlord, with the squire himself and a visitor.

'"What sort of person, landlord?"

'"Why, he was a dark officer-looking mon, at they called Colonel. Squoire Mervyn questioned
me as close as I had been at 'sizes. I had guess, Mr. Dawson" (I told you that was my feigned
name), "but I tould him nought of your vagaries, and going out a-laking in the mere a-noights,
not I; an I can make no sport, I'se spoil none; and Squoire Mervyn's as cross as poy-crust
too, mon; he's aye maundering an my guests but land beneath his house, though it be marked
for the fourth station in the survey. Noa, noa, e'en let un smell things out o' themselves
for Joe Hodges."

'You will allow there was nothing for it after this but paying honest Joe Hodges's bill and
departing, unless I had preferred making him my confidant, for which I felt in no way inclined.
Besides, I learned that our ci-devant Colonel was on full retreat for Scotland, carrying off
poor Julia along with him. I understand from those who conduct the heavy baggage that he takes
his winter quarters at a place called Woodbourne, in ---shire in Scotland. He will be all on
the alert just now, so I must let him enter his entrenchments without any new alarm. And then,
my good Colonel, to whom I owe so many grateful thanks, pray look to your defence.

'I protest to you, Delaserre, I often think there is a little contradiction enters into the
ardour of my pursuit. I think I would rather bring this haughty insulting man to the necessity
of calling his daughter Mrs. Brown than I would wed her with his full consent, and with the
King's permission to change my name for the style and arms of Mannering, though his whole fortune
went with them. There is only one circumstance that chills me a little: Julia is young and
romantic. I would not willingly hurry her into a step which her riper years might disapprove;
no--nor would I like to have her upbraid me, were it but with a glance of her eye, with having
ruined her fortunes, far less give her reason to say, as some have not been slow to tell their
lords, that, had I left her time for consideration, she would have been wiser and done better.
No, Delaserre, this must not be. The picture presses close upon me, because I am aware a girl
in Julia's situation has no distinct and precise idea of the value of the sacrifice she makes.
She knows difficulties only by name; and, if she thinks of love and a farm, it is a ferme ornee,
such as is only to be found in poetic description or in the park of a gentleman of twelve thousand
a year. She would be ill prepared for the privations of that real Swiss cottage we have so
often talked of, and for the difficulties which must necessarily surround us even before we
attained that haven. This must be a point clearly ascertained. Although Julia's beauty and
playful tenderness have made an impression on my heart never to be erased, I must be satisfied
that she perfectly understands the advantages she foregoes before she sacrifices them for my sake.

'Am I too proud, Delaserre, when I trust that even this trial may terminate favourably to my
wishes? Am I too vain when I suppose that the few personal qualities which I possess, with
means of competence, however moderate, and the determination of consecrating my life to her
happiness, may make amends for all I must call upon her to forego? Or will a difference of
dress, of attendance, of style, as it is called, of the power of shifting at pleasure the scenes
in which she seeks amusement--will these outweigh in her estimation the prospect of domestic
happiness and the interchange of unabating affection? I say nothing of her father: his good
and evil qualities are so strangely mingled that the former are neutralised by the latter;
and that which she must regret as a daughter is so much blended with what she would gladly
escape from, that I place the separation of the father and child as a circumstance which weighs
little in her remarkable case. Meantime I keep up my spirits as I may. I have incurred too
many hardships and difficulties to be presumptuous or confident in success, and I have been
too often and too wonderfully extricated from them to be despondent.

'I wish you saw this country. I think the scenery would delight you. At least it often brings
to my recollection your glowing descriptions of your native country. To me it has in a great
measure the charm of novelty. Of the Scottish hills, though born among them, as I have always
been assured, I have but an indistinct recollection. Indeed, my memory rather dwells upon the
blank which my youthful mind experienced in gazing on the levels of the isle of Zealand, than
on anything which preceded that feeling; but I am confident, from that sensation as well as
from the recollections which preceded it, that hills and rocks have been familiar to me at
an early period, and that, though now only remembered by contrast, and by the blank which I
felt while gazing around for them in vain, they must have made an indelible impression on my
infant imagination. I remember, when we first mounted that celebrated pass in the Mysore country,
while most of the others felt only awe and astonishment at the height and grandeur of the scenery,
I rather shared your feelings and those of Cameron, whose admiration of such wild rocks was
blended with familiar love, derived from early association. Despite my Dutch education, a blue
hill to me is as a friend, and a roaring torrent like the sound of a domestic song that hath
soothed my infancy. I never felt the impulse so strongly as in this land of lakes and mountains,
and nothing grieves me so much as that duty prevents your being with me in my numerous excursions
among recesses. Some drawings I have attempted, but I succeed vilely. Dudley, on the contrary,
draws delightfully, with that rapid touch which seems like magic; while I labour and botch,
and make this too heavy and that too light, and produce at last a base caricature. I must stick
to the flageolet, for music is the only one of the fine arts which deigns to acknowledge me.

'Did you know that Colonel Mannering was a draughtsman? I believe not, for he scorned to display
his accomplishments to the view of a subaltern. He draws beautifully, however. Since he and
Julia left Mervyn Hall, Dudley was sent for there. The squire, it seems, wanted a set of drawings
made up, of which Mannering had done the first four, but was interrupted by his hasty departure
in his purpose of completing them. Dudley says he has seldom seen anything so masterly, though
slight; and each had attached to it a short poetical description. Is Saul, you will say, among
the prophets? Colonel Mannering write poetry! Why, surely this man must have taken all the
pains to conceal his accomplishments that others do to display theirs. How reserved and unsociable
he appeared among us! how little disposed to enter into any conversation which could become
generally interesting! And then his attachment to that unworthy Archer, so much below him in
every respect; and all this because he was the brother of Viscount Archerfield, a poor Scottish
peer! I think, if Archer had longer survived the wounds in the affair of Cuddyboram, he would
have told something that might have thrown light upon the inconsistencies of this singular
man's character. He repeated to me more than once, "I have that to say which will alter your
hard opinion of our late Colonel." But death pressed him too hard; and if he owed me any atonement,
which some of his expressions seemed to imply, he died before it could be made.

'I propose to make a further excursion through this country while this fine frosty weather
serves, and Dudley, almost as good a walker as myself, goes with me for some part of the way.
We part on the borders of Cumberland, when he must return to his lodgings in Marybone, up three
pair of stairs, and labour at what he calls the commercial part of his profession. There cannot,
he says, be such a difference betwixt any two portions of existence as between that in which
the artist, if an enthusiast, collects the subjects of his drawings and that which must necessarily
be dedicated to turning over his portfolio and exhibiting them to the provoking indifference,
or more provoking criticism, of fashionable amateurs. "During the summer of my year," says
Dudley, "I am as free as a wild Indian, enjoying myself at liberty amid the grandest scenes
of nature; while during my winters and springs I am not only cabined, cribbed, and confined
in a miserable garret, but condemned to as intolerable subservience to the humour of others,
and to as indifferent company, as if I were a literal galley slave." I have promised him your
acquaintance, Delaserre; you will be delighted with his specimens of art, and he with your
Swiss fanaticism for mountains and torrents.

'When I lose Dudley's company, I am informed that I can easily enter Scotland by stretching
across a wild country in the upper part of Cumberland; and that route I shall follow, to give
the Colonel time to pitch his camp ere I reconnoitre his position. Adieu! Delaserre.

Let the reader conceive to himself a clear frosty November morning, the scene an open heath,
having for the background that huge chain of mountains in which Skiddaw and Saddleback are
preeminent; let him look along that BLIND ROAD, by which I mean the track so slightly marked
by the passengers' footsteps that it can but be traced by a slight shade of verdure from the
darker heath around it, and, being only visible to the eye when at some distance, ceases to
be distinguished while the foot is actually treading it; along this faintly-traced path advances
the object of our present narrative. His firm step, his erect and free carriage, have a military
air which corresponds well with his well- proportioned limbs and stature of six feet high.
His dress is so plain and simple that it indicates nothing as to rank; it may be that of a
gentleman who travels in this manner for his pleasure, or of an inferior person of whom it
is the proper and usual garb. Nothing can be on a more reduced scale than his travelling equipment.
A volume of Shakspeare in each pocket, a small bundle with a change of linen slung across his
shoulders, an oaken cudgel in his hand, complete our pedestrian's accommodations, and in this
equipage we present him to our readers.

Brown had parted that morning from his friend Dudley, and begun his solitary walk towards Scotland.

The first two or three miles were rather melancholy, from want of the society to which he had
of late been accustomed. But this unusual mood of mind soon gave way to the influence of his
natural good spirits, excited by the exercise and the bracing effects of the frosty air. He
whistled as he went along, not 'from want of thought,' but to give vent to those buoyant feelings
which he had no other mode of expressing. For each peasant whom he chanced to meet he had a
kind greeting or a good-humoured jest; the hardy Cumbrians grinned as they passed, and said,
'That's a kind heart, God bless un!' and the market-girl looked more than once over her shoulder
at the athletic form, which corresponded so well with the frank and blythe address of the stranger.
A rough terrier dog, his constant companion, who rivalled his master in glee, scampered at
large in a thousand wheels round the heath, and came back to jump up on him and assure him
that he participated in the pleasure of the journey. Dr. Johnson thought life had few things
better than the excitation produced by being whirled rapidly along in a post- chaise; but he
who has in youth experienced the confident and independent feeling of a stout pedestrian in
an interesting country, and during fine weather, will hold the taste of the great moralist
cheap in comparison.

Part of Brown's view in choosing that unusual track which leads through the eastern wilds of
Cumberland into Scotland, had been a desire to view the remains of the celebrated Roman Wall,
which are more visible in that direction than in any other part of its extent. His education
had been imperfect and desultory; but neither the busy scenes in which he had been engaged,
nor the pleasures of youth, nor the precarious state of his own circumstances, had diverted
him from the task of mental improvement. 'And this then is the Roman Wall,' he said, scrambling
up to a height which commanded the course of that celebrated work of antiquity. 'What a people!
whose labours, even at this extremity of their empire, comprehended such space, and were executed
upon a scale of such grandeur! In future ages, when the science of war shall have changed,
how few traces will exist of the labours of Vauban and Coehorn, while this wonderful people's
remains will even then continue to interest and astonish posterity! Their fortifications, their
aqueducts, their theatres, their fountains, all their public works, bear the grave, solid,
and majestic character of their language; while our modern labours, like our modern tongues,
seem but constructed out of their fragments.' Having thus moralised, he remembered that he
was hungry, and pursued his walk to a small public-house, at which he proposed to get some
refreshment.

The alehouse, for it was no better, was situated in the bottom of a little dell, through which
trilled a small rivulet. It was shaded by a large ash tree, against which the clay-built shed
that served the purpose of a stable was erected, and upon which it seemed partly to recline.
In this shed stood a saddled horse, employed in eating his corn. The cottages in this part
of Cumberland partake of the rudeness which characterises those of Scotland. The outside of
the house promised little for the interior, notwithstanding the vaunt of a sign, where a tankard
of ale voluntarily decanted itself into a tumbler, and a hieroglyphical scrawl below attempted
to express a promise of 'good entertainment for man and horse.' Brown was no fastidious traveller:
he stopped and entered the cabaret. [Footnote: See Note 2.]

The first object which caught his eye in the kitchen was a tall, stout, country-looking man
in a large jockey great-coat, the owner of the horse which stood in the shed, who was busy
discussing huge slices of cold boiled beef, and casting from time to time an eye through the
window to see how his steed sped with his provender. A large tankard of ale flanked his plate
of victuals, to which he applied himself by intervals. The good woman of the house was employed
in baking. The fire, as is usual in that country, was on a stone hearth, in the midst of an
immensely large chimney, which had two seats extended beneath the vent. On one of these sat
a remarkably tall woman, in a red cloak and slouched bonnet, having the appearance of a tinker
or beggar. She was busily engaged with a short black tobacco-pipe.

At the request of Brown for some food, the landlady wiped with her mealy apron one corner of
the deal table, placed a wooden trencher and knife and fork before the traveller, pointed to
the round of beef, recommended Mr. Dinmont's good example, and finally filled a brown pitcher
with her home-brewed. Brown lost no time in doing ample credit to both. For a while his opposite
neighbour and he were too busy to take much notice of each other, except by a good- humoured
nod as each in turn raised the tankard to his head. At length, when our pedestrian began to
supply the wants of little Wasp, the Scotch store-farmer, for such was Mr. Dinmont, found himself
at leisure to enter into conversation.

'A bonny terrier that, sir, and a fell chield at the vermin, I warrant him; that is, if he's
been weel entered, for it a' lies in that.'

'Really, sir,' said Brown, 'his education has been somewhat neglected, and his chief property
is being a pleasant companion.'

'Ay, sir? that's a pity, begging your pardon, it's a great pity that; beast or body, education
should aye be minded. I have six terriers at hame, forbye twa couple of slow-hunds, five grews,
and a wheen other dogs. There's auld Pepper and auld Mustard, and young Pepper and young Mustard,
and little Pepper and little Mustard. I had them a' regularly entered, first wi' rottens, then
wi' stots or weasels, and then wi' the tods and brocks, and now they fear naething that ever
cam wi' a hairy skin on't.'

'I have no doubt, sir, they are thoroughbred; but, to have so many dogs, you seem to have a
very limited variety of names for them?'

'O, that's a fancy of my ain to mark the breed, sir. The Deuke himsell has sent as far as Charlie's
Hope to get ane o' Dandy Dinmont's Pepper and Mustard terriers. Lord, man, he sent Tam Hudson
[Footnote: The real name of this veteran sportsman is now restored.] the keeper, and sicken
a day as we had wi' the foumarts and the tods, and sicken a blythe gae-down as we had again
e'en! Faith, that was a night!'

'I suppose game is very plenty with you?'

'Plenty, man! I believe there's mair hares than sheep on my farm; and for the moor-fowl or
the grey-fowl, they lie as thick as doos in a dookit. Did ye ever shoot a blackcock, man?'

'Really I had never even the pleasure to see one, except in the museum at Keswick.'

'There now! I could guess that by your Southland tongue. It's very odd of these English folk
that come here, how few of them has seen a blackcock! I'll tell you what--ye seem to be an
honest lad, and if you'll call on me, on Dandy Dinmont, at Charlie's Hope, ye shall see a blackcock,
and shoot a blackcock, and eat a blackcock too, man.'

'Why, the proof of the matter is the eating, to be sure, sir; and I shall be happy if I can
find time to accept your invitation.'

'Time, man? what ails ye to gae hame wi' me the now? How d' ye travel?'

'On foot, sir; and if that handsome pony be yours, I should find it impossible to keep up with
you.'

'No, unless ye can walk up to fourteen mile an hour. But ye can come ower the night as far
as Riccarton, where there is a public; or if ye like to stop at Jockey Grieve's at the Heuch,
they would be blythe to see ye, and I am just gaun to stop and drink a dram at the door wi'
him, and I would tell him you're coming up. Or stay--gudewife, could ye lend this gentleman
the gudeman's galloway, and I'll send it ower the Waste in the morning wi' the callant?'

The galloway was turned out upon the fell, and was swear to catch.--'Aweel, aweel, there's
nae help for't, but come up the morn at ony rate. And now, gudewife, I maun ride, to get to
the Liddel or it be dark, for your Waste has but a kittle character, ye ken yoursell.'

'Hout fie, Mr. Dinmont, that's no like you, to gie the country an ill name. I wot, there has
been nane stirred in the Waste since Sawney Culloch, the travelling-merchant, that Rowley Overdees
and Jock Penny suffered for at Carlisle twa years since. There's no ane in Bewcastle would
do the like o' that now; we be a' true folk now.'

'Ay, Tib, that will be when the deil's blind; and his een's no sair yet. But hear ye, gudewife,
I have been through maist feck o' Galloway and Dumfries-shire, and I have been round by Carlisle,
and I was at the Staneshiebank Fair the day, and I would like ill to be rubbit sae near hame,
so I'll take the gate.'

'Hae ye been in Dumfries and Galloway?' said the old dame who sate smoking by the fireside,
and who had not yet spoken a word.

'Troth have I, gudewife, and a weary round I've had o't.'

'Then ye'll maybe ken a place they ca' Ellangowan?'

'Ellangowan, that was Mr. Bertram's? I ken the place weel eneugh. The Laird died about a fortnight
since, as I heard.'

'Died!' said the old woman, dropping her pipe, and rising and coming forward upon the floor--'died?
are you sure of that?'

'Troth, am I,' said Dinmont, 'for it made nae sma' noise in the country-side. He died just
at the roup of the stocking and furniture; it stoppit the roup, and mony folk were disappointed.
They said he was the last of an auld family too, and mony were sorry; for gude blude's scarcer
in Scotland than it has been.'

'Dead!' replied the old woman, whom our readers have already recognised as their acquaintance
Meg Merrilies--'dead! that quits a' scores. And did ye say he died without an heir?'

'Ay did he, gudewife, and the estate's sell'd by the same token; for they said they couldna
have sell'd it if there had been an heir-male.'

'Sell'd!' echoed the gipsy, with something like a scream; 'and wha durst buy Ellangowan that
was not of Bertram's blude? and wha could tell whether the bonny knave-bairn may not come back
to claim his ain? wha durst buy the estate and the castle of Ellangowan?'

'Troth, gudewife, just ane o' thae writer chields that buys a' thing; they ca' him Glossin,
I think.'

'Glossin! Gibbie Glossin! that I have carried in my creels a hundred times, for his mother
wasna muckle better than mysell--he to presume to buy the barony of Ellangowan! Gude be wi'
us; it is an awfu' warld! I wished him ill; but no sic a downfa' as a' that neither. Wae's
me! wae's me to think o't!' She remained a moment silent but still opposing with her hand the
farmer's retreat, who betwixt every question was about to turn his back, but good- humouredly
stopped on observing the deep interest his answers appeared to excite.

'It will be seen and heard of--earth and sea will not hold their peace langer! Can ye say if
the same man be now the sheriff of the county that has been sae for some years past?'

'Na, he's got some other birth in Edinburgh, they say; but gude day, gudewife, I maun ride.'
She followed him to his horse, and, while he drew the girths of his saddle, adjusted the walise,
and put on the bridle, still plied him with questions concerning Mr. Bertram's death and the
fate of his daughter; on which, however, she could obtain little information from the honest
farmer.

'Did ye ever see a place they ca' Derncleugh, about a mile frae the Place of Ellangowan?'

'I wot weel have I, gudewife. A wild-looking den it is, wi' a whin auld wa's o' shealings yonder;
I saw it when I gaed ower the ground wi' ane that wanted to take the farm.'

'It was a blythe bit ance!' said Meg, speaking to herself. 'Did ye notice if there was an auld
saugh tree that's maist blawn down, but yet its roots are in the earth, and it hangs ower the
bit burn? Mony a day hae I wrought my stocking and sat on my sunkie under that saugh.'

'Hout, deil's i' the wife, wi' her saughs, and her sunkies, and Ellangowans. Godsake, woman,
let me away; there's saxpence t' ye to buy half a mutchkin, instead o' clavering about thae
auld-warld stories.'

'Thanks to ye, gudeman; and now ye hae answered a' my questions, and never speired wherefore
I asked them, I'll gie you a bit canny advice, and ye maunna speir what for neither. Tib Mumps
will be out wi' the stirrup-dram in a gliffing. She'll ask ye whether ye gang ower Willie's
Brae or through Conscowthart Moss; tell her ony ane ye like, but be sure (speaking low and
emphatically) to tak the ane ye dinna tell her.' The farmer laughed and promised, and the gipsy
retreated.

'Will you take her advice?' said Brown, who had been an attentive listener to this conversation.

'That will I no, the randy quean! Na, I had far rather Tib Mumps kenn'd which way I was gaun
than her, though Tib's no muckle to lippen to neither, and I would advise ye on no account
to stay in the house a' night.'

In a moment after Tib, the landlady, appeared with her stirrup- cup, which was taken off. She
then, as Meg had predicted, inquired whether he went the hill or the moss road. He answered,
the latter; and, having bid Brown good-bye, and again told him, 'he depended on seeing him
at Charlie's Hope, the morn at latest,' he rode off at a round pace.

CHAPTER XXIII

     Gallows and knock are too powerful on the highway

        --Winter's Tale.

The hint of the hospitable farmer was not lost on Brown. But while he paid his reckoning he
could not avoid repeatedly fixing his eyes on Meg Merrilies. She was in all respects the same
witch-like figure as when we first introduced her at Ellangowan Place. Time had grizzled her
raven locks and added wrinkles to her wild features, but her height remained erect, and her
activity was unimpaired. It was remarked of this woman, as of others of the same description,
that a life of action, though not of labour, gave her the perfect command of her limbs and
figure, so that the attitudes into which she most naturally threw herself were free, unconstrained,
and picturesque. At present she stood by the window of the cottage, her person drawn up so
as to show to full advantage her masculine stature, and her head somewhat thrown back, that
the large bonnet with which her face was shrouded might not interrupt her steady gaze at Brown.
At every gesture he made and every tone he uttered she seemed to give an almost imperceptible
start. On his part, he was surprised to find that he could not look upon this singular figure
without some emotion. 'Have I dreamed of such a figure?' he said to himself, 'or does this
wild and singular-looking woman recall to my recollection some of the strange figures I have
seen in our Indian pagodas?'

While he embarrassed himself with these discussions, and the hostess was engaged in rummaging
out silver in change of half-a- guinea, the gipsy suddenly made two strides and seized Brown's
hand. He expected, of course, a display of her skill in palmistry, but she seemed agitated
by other feelings.

'Tell me,' she said, 'tell me, in the name of God, young man, what is your name, and whence
you came?'

'My name is Brown, mother, and I come from the East Indies.'

'From the East Indies!' dropping his hand with a sigh; 'it cannot be then. I am such an auld
fool, that everything I look on seems the thing I want maist to see. But the East Indies! that
cannot be. Weel, be what ye will, ye hae a face and a tongue that puts me in mind of auld times.
Good day; make haste on your road, and if ye see ony of our folk, meddle not and make not,
and they'll do you nae harm.'

Brown, who had by this time received his change, put a shilling into her hand, bade his hostess
farewell, and, taking the route which the farmer had gone before, walked briskly on, with the
advantage of being guided by the fresh hoof-prints of his horse. Meg Merrilies looked after
him for some time, and then muttered to herself, 'I maun see that lad again; and I maun gang
back to Ellangowan too. The Laird's dead! aweel, death pays a' scores; he was a kind man ance.
The Sheriff's flitted, and I can keep canny in the bush; so there's no muckle hazard o' scouring
the cramp- ring. I would like to see bonny Ellangowan again or I die.'

Brown meanwhile proceeded northward at a round pace along the moorish tract called the Waste
of Cumberland. He passed a solitary house, towards which the horseman who preceded him had
apparently turned up, for his horse's tread was evident in that direction. A little farther,
he seemed to have returned again into the road. Mr. Dinmont had probably made a visit there
either of business or pleasure. 'I wish,' thought Brown, 'the good farmer had staid till I
came up; I should not have been sorry to ask him a few questions about the road, which seems
to grow wilder and wilder.'

In truth, nature, as if she had designed this tract of country to be the barrier between two
hostile nations, has stamped upon it a character of wildness and desolation. The hills are
neither high nor rocky, but the land is all heath and morass; the huts poor and mean, and at
a great distance from each other. Immediately around them there is generally some little attempt
at cultivation; but a half-bred foal or two, straggling about with shackles on their hind legs,
to save the trouble of inclosures, intimate the farmer's chief resource to be the breeding
of horses. The people, too, are of a ruder and more inhospitable class than are elsewhere to
be found in Cumberland, arising partly from their own habits, partly from their intermixture
with vagrants and criminals, who make this wild country a refuge from justice. So much were
the men of these districts in early times the objects of suspicion and dislike to their more
polished neighbours, that there was, and perhaps still exists, a by-law of the corporation
of Newcastle prohibiting any freeman of that city to take for apprentice a native of certain
of these dales. It is pithily said, 'Give a dog an ill name and hang him'; and it may be added,
if you give a man, or race of men, an ill name they are very likely to do something that deserves
hanging. Of this Brown had heard something, and suspected more, from the discourse between
the landlady, Dinmont, and the gipsy; but he was naturally of a fearless disposition, had nothing
about him that could tempt the spoiler, and trusted to get through the Waste with daylight.
In this last particular, however, he was likely to be disappointed. The way proved longer than
he had anticipated, and the horizon began to grow gloomy just as he entered upon an extensive
morass.

Choosing his steps with care and deliberation, the young officer proceeded along a path that
sometimes sunk between two broken black banks of moss earth, sometimes crossed narrow but deep
ravines filled with a consistence between mud and water, and sometimes along heaps of gravel
and stones, which had been swept together when some torrent or waterspout from the neighbouring
hills overflowed the marshy ground below. He began to ponder how a horseman could make his
way through such broken ground; the traces of hoofs, however, were still visible; he even thought
he heard their sound at some distance, and, convinced that Mr. Dinmont's progress through the
morass must be still slower than his own, he resolved to push on, in hopes to overtake him
and have the benefit of his knowledge of the country. At this moment his little terrier sprung
forward, barking most furiously.

Brown quickened his pace, and, attaining the summit of a small rising ground, saw the subject
of the dog's alarm. In a hollow about a gunshot below him a man whom he easily recognised to
be Dinmont was engaged with two others in a desperate struggle. He was dismounted, and defending
himself as he best could with the butt of his heavy whip. Our traveller hastened on to his
assistance; but ere he could get up a stroke had levelled the farmer with the earth, and one
of the robbers, improving his victory, struck him some merciless blows on the head. The other
villain, hastening to meet Brown, called to his companion to come along, 'for that one's CONTENT,'
meaning, probably, past resistance or complaint. One ruffian was armed with a cutlass, the
other with a bludgeon; but as the road was pretty narrow, 'bar fire-arms,' thought Brown, 'and
I may manage them well enough.' They met accordingly, with the most murderous threats on the
part of the ruffians. They soon found, however, that their new opponent was equally stout and
resolute; and, after exchanging two or three blows, one of them told him to 'follow his nose
over the heath, in the devil's name, for they had nothing to say to him.'

Brown rejected this composition as leaving to their mercy the unfortunate man whom they were
about to pillage, if not to murder outright; and the skirmish had just recommenced when Dinmont
unexpectedly recovered his senses, his feet, and his weapon, and hastened to the scene of action.
As he had been no easy antagonist, even when surprised and alone, the villains did not choose
to wait his joining forces with a man who had singly proved a match for them both, but fled
across the bog as fast as their feet could carry them, pursued by Wasp, who had acted gloriously
during the skirmish, annoying the heels of the enemy, and repeatedly effecting a moment's diversion
in his master's favour.

'Deil, but your dog's weel entered wi' the vermin now, sir!' were the first words uttered by
the jolly farmer as he came up, his head streaming with blood, and recognised his deliverer
and his little attendant.

'I hope, sir, you are not hurt dangerously?'

'O, deil a bit, my head can stand a gay clour; nae thanks to them, though, and mony to you.
But now, hinney, ye maun help me to catch the beast, and ye maun get on behind me, for we maun
off like whittrets before the whole clanjamfray be doun upon us; the rest o' them will no be
far off.' The galloway was, by good fortune, easily caught, and Brown made some apology for
overloading the animal.

'Deil a fear, man,' answered the proprietor; 'Dumple could carry six folk, if his back was
lang eneugh; but God's sake, haste ye, get on, for I see some folk coming through the slack
yonder that it may be just as weel no to wait for.'

Brown was of opinion that this apparition of five or six men, with whom the other villains
seemed to join company, coming across the moss towards them, should abridge ceremony; he therefore
mounted Dumple en croupe, and the little spirited nag cantered away with two men of great size
and strength as if they had been children of six years old. The rider, to whom the paths of
these wilds seemed intimately known, pushed on at a rapid pace, managing with much dexterity
to choose the safest route, in which he was aided by the sagacity of the galloway, who never
failed to take the difficult passes exactly at the particular spot, and in the special manner,
by which they could be most safely crossed. Yet, even with these advantages, the road was so
broken, and they were so often thrown out of the direct course by various impediments, that
they did not gain much on their pursuers. 'Never mind,' said the undaunted Scotchman to his
companion, 'if we were ance by Withershins' Latch, the road's no near sae soft, and we'll show
them fair play for't.'

They soon came to the place he named, a narrow channel, through which soaked, rather than flowed,
a small stagnant stream, mantled over with bright green mosses. Dinmont directed his steed
towards a pass where the water appeared to flow with more freedom over a harder bottom; but
Dumple backed from the proposed crossing-place, put his head down as if to reconnoitre the
swamp more nearly, stretching forward his fore-feet, and stood as fast as if he had been cut
out of stone.

'Had we not better,' said Brown, 'dismount, and leave him to his fate; or can you not urge
him through the swamp?'

'Na, na,' said his pilot, 'we maun cross Dumple at no rate, he has mair sense than mony a Christian.'
So saying, he relaxed the reins, and shook them loosely. 'Come now, lad, take your ain way
o't, let's see where ye'll take us through.'

Dumple, left to the freedom of his own will, trotted briskly to another part of the latch,
less promising, as Brown thought, in appearance, but which the animal's sagacity or experience
recommended as the safer of the two, and where, plunging in, he attained the other side with
little difficulty.

'I'm glad we're out o' that moss,' said Dinmont, 'where there's mair stables for horses than
change-houses for men; we have the Maiden-way to help us now, at ony rate.' Accordingly, they
speedily gained a sort of rugged causeway so called, being the remains of an old Roman road
which traverses these wild regions in a due northerly direction. Here they got on at the rate
of nine or ten miles an hour, Dumple seeking no other respite than what arose from changing
his pace from canter to trot. 'I could gar him show mair action,' said his master, 'but we
are twa lang-legged chields after a', and it would be a pity to stress Dumple; there wasna
the like o' him at Staneshiebank Fair the day.'

Brown readily assented to the propriety of sparing the horse, and added that, as they were
now far out of the reach of the rogues, he thought Mr. Dinmont had better tie a handkerchief
round his head, for fear of the cold frosty air aggravating the wound.

'What would I do that for?' answered the hardy farmer; 'the best way's to let the blood barken
upon the cut; that saves plasters, hinney.'

Brown, who in his military profession had seen a great many hard blows pass, could not help
remarking, 'he had never known such severe strokes received with so much apparent indifference.'

'Hout tout, man! I would never be making a humdudgeon about a scart on the pow; but we'll be
in Scotland in five minutes now, and ye maun gang up to Charlie's Hope wi' me, that's a clear
case.'

Brown readily accepted the offered hospitality. Night was now falling when they came in sight
of a pretty river winding its way through a pastoral country. The hills were greener and more
abrupt than those which Brown had lately passed, sinking their grassy sides at once upon the
river. They had no pretensions to magnificence of height, or to romantic shapes, nor did their
smooth swelling slopes exhibit either rocks or woods. Yet the view was wild, solitary, and
pleasingly rural. No inclosures, no roads, almost no tillage; it seemed a land which a patriarch
would have chosen to feed his flocks and herds. The remains of here and there a dismantled
and ruined tower showed that it had once harboured beings of a very different description from
its present inhabitants; those freebooters, namely, to whose exploits the wars between England
and Scotland bear witness.

Descending by a path towards a well-known ford, Dumple crossed the small river, and then, quickening
his pace, trotted about a mile briskly up its banks, and approached two or three low thatched
houses, placed with their angles to each other, with a great contempt of regularity. This was
the farm-steading of Charlie's Hope, or, in the language of the country, 'the town.' A most
furious barking was set up at their approach by the whole three generations of Mustard and
Pepper, and a number of allies, names unknown. The farmer [Footnote: See Note 3.] made his
well-known voice lustily heard to restore order; the door opened, and a half- dressed ewe-milker,
who had done that good office, shut it in their faces, in order that she might run 'ben the
house' to cry 'Mistress, mistress, it's the master, and another man wi' him.' Dumple, turned
loose, walked to his own stable-door, and there pawed and whinnied for admission, in strains
which were answered by his acquaintances from the interior. Amid this bustle Brown was fain
to secure Wasp from the other dogs, who, with ardour corresponding more to their own names
than to the hospitable temper of their owner, were much disposed to use the intruder roughly.

In about a minute a stout labourer was patting Dumple, and introducing him into the stable,
while Mrs. Dinmont, a well- favoured buxom dame, welcomed her husband with unfeigned rapture.
'Eh, sirs! gudeman, ye hae been a weary while away!'

CHAPTER XXIV

     Liddell till now, except in Doric lays,
     Tuned to her murmurs by her love-sick swains,
     Unknown in song, though not a purer stream
     Rolls towards the western main

          Art of Preserving Health.

The present store-farmers of the south of Scotland are a much more refined race than their
fathers, and the manners I am now to describe have either altogether disappeared or are greatly
modified. Without losing the rural simplicity of manners, they now cultivate arts unknown to
the former generation, not only in the progressive improvement of their possessions but in
all the comforts of life. Their houses are more commodious, their habits of life regulated
so as better to keep pace with those of the civilised world, and the best of luxuries, the
luxury of knowledge, has gained much ground among their hills during the last thirty years.
Deep drinking, formerly their greatest failing, is now fast losing ground; and, while the frankness
of their extensive hospitality continues the same, it is, generally speaking, refined in its
character and restrained in its excesses.

'Deil's in the wife,' said Dandie Dinmont, shaking off his spouse's embrace, but gently and
with a look of great affection; 'deil's in ye, Ailie; d'ye no see the stranger gentleman?'

Ailie turned to make her apology--'Troth, I was sae weel pleased to see the gudeman, that--but,
gude gracious! what's the matter wi' ye baith?' for they were now in her little parlour, and
the candle showed the streaks of blood which Dinmont's wounded head had plentifully imparted
to the clothes of his companion as well as to his own. 'Ye've been fighting again, Dandie,
wi' some o' the Bewcastle horse-coupers! Wow, man, a married man, wi' a bonny family like yours,
should ken better what a father's life's worth in the warld'; the tears stood in the good woman's
eyes as she spoke.

'Whisht! whisht! gudewife,' said her husband, with a smack that had much more affection than
ceremony in it; 'never mind, never mind; there's a gentleman that will tell you that, just
when I had ga'en up to Lourie Lowther's, and had bidden the drinking of twa cheerers, and gotten
just in again upon the moss, and was whigging cannily awa hame, twa landloupers jumpit out
of a peat-hag on me or I was thinking, and got me down, and knevelled me sair aneuch, or I
could gar my whip walk about their lugs; and troth, gudewife, if this honest gentleman hadna
come up, I would have gotten mair licks than I like, and lost mair siller than I could weel
spare; so ye maun be thankful to him for it, under God.' With that he drew from his side-pocket
a large greasy leather pocket-book, and bade the gudewife lock it up in her kist.

'God bless the gentleman, and e'en God bless him wi' a' my heart; but what can we do for him,
but to gie him the meat and quarters we wadna refuse to the poorest body on earth--unless (her
eye directed to the pocketbook, but with a feeling of natural propriety which made the inference
the most delicate possible), unless there was ony other way--' Brown saw, and estimated at
its due rate, the mixture of simplicity and grateful generosity which took the downright way
of expressing itself, yet qualified with so much delicacy; he was aware his own appearance,
plain at best, and now torn and spattered with blood, made him an object of pity at least,
and perhaps of charity. He hastened to say his name was Brown, a captain in the----regiment
of cavalry, travelling for pleasure, and on foot, both from motives of independence and economy;
and he begged his kind landlady would look at her husband's wounds, the state of which he had
refused to permit him to examine. Mrs. Dinmont was used to her husband's broken heads more
than to the presence of a captain of dragoons. She therefore glanced at a table-cloth not quite
clean, and conned over her proposed supper a minute or two, before, patting her husband on
the shoulder, she bade him sit down for 'a hard-headed loon, that was aye bringing himsell
and other folk into collie-shangies.'

When Dandie Dinmont, after executing two or three caprioles, and cutting the Highland fling,
by way of ridicule of his wife's anxiety, at last deigned to sit down and commit his round,
black, shaggy bullet of a head to her inspection, Brown thought he had seen the regimental
surgeon look grave upon a more trifling case. The gudewife, however, showed some knowledge
of chirurgery; she cut away with her scissors the gory locks whose stiffened and coagulated
clusters interfered with her operations, and clapped on the wound some lint besmeared with
a vulnerary salve, esteemed sovereign by the whole dale (which afforded upon fair nights considerable
experience of such cases); she then fixed her plaster with a bandage, and, spite of her patient's
resistance, pulled over all a night-cap, to keep everything in its right place. Some contusions
on the brow and shoulders she fomented with brandy, which the patient did not permit till the
medicine had paid a heavy toll to his mouth. Mrs. Dinmont then simply, but kindly, offered
her assistance to Brown.

He assured her he had no occasion for anything but the accommodation of a basin and towel.

'And that's what I should have thought of sooner,' she said; 'and I did think o't, but I durst
na open the door, for there's a' the bairns, poor things, sae keen to see their father.'

This explained a great drumming and whining at the door of the little parlour, which had somewhat
surprised Brown, though his kind landlady had only noticed it by fastening the bolt as soon
as she heard it begin. But on her opening the door to seek the basin and towel (for she never
thought of showing the guest to a separate room), a whole tide of white-headed urchins streamed
in, some from the stable, where they had been seeing Dumple, and giving him a welcome home
with part of their four-hours scones; others from the kitchen, where they had been listening
to old Elspeth's tales and ballads; and the youngest, half-naked, out of bed, all roaring to
see daddy, and to inquire what he had brought home for them from the various fairs he had visited
in his peregrinations. Our knight of the broken head first kissed and hugged them all round,
then distributed whistles, penny-trumpets, and gingerbread, and, lastly, when the tumult of
their joy and welcome got beyond bearing, exclaimed to his guest--'This is a' the gude-wife's
fault, Captain; she will gie the bairns a' their ain way.'

'Me! Lord help me,' said Ailie, who at that instant entered with the basin and ewer, 'how can
I help it? I have naething else to gie them, poor things!'

Dinmont then exerted himself, and, between coaxing, threats, and shoving, cleared the room
of all the intruders excepting a boy and girl, the two eldest of the family, who could, as
he observed, behave themselves 'distinctly.' For the same reason, but with less ceremony, all
the dogs were kicked out excepting the venerable patriarchs, old Pepper and Mustard, whom frequent
castigation and the advance of years had inspired with such a share of passive hospitality
that, after mutual explanation and remonstrance in the shape of some growling, they admitted
Wasp, who had hitherto judged it safe to keep beneath his master's chair, to a share of a dried-wedder's
skin, which, with the wool uppermost and unshorn, served all the purposes of a Bristol hearth-rug.

The active bustle of the mistress (so she was called in the kitchen, and the gudewife in the
parlour) had already signed the fate of a couple of fowls, which, for want of time to dress
them otherwise, soon appeared reeking from the gridiron, or brander, as Mrs. Dinmont denominated
it. A huge piece of cold beef-ham, eggs, butter, cakes, and barley-meal bannocks in plenty
made up the entertainment, which was to be diluted with home-brewed ale of excellent quality
and a case-bottle of brandy. Few soldiers would find fault with such cheer after a day's hard
exercise and a skirmish to boot; accordingly Brown did great honour to the eatables. While
the gudewife partly aided, partly instructed, a great stout servant girl, with cheeks as red
as her top-knot, to remove the supper matters and supply sugar and hot water (which, in the
damsel's anxiety to gaze upon an actual live captain, she was in some danger of forgetting),
Brown took an opportunity to ask his host whether he did not repent of having neglected the
gipsy's hint.

'Wha kens?' answered he; 'they're queer deevils; maybe I might just have 'scaped ae gang to
meet the other. And yet I'll no say that neither; for if that randy wife was coming to Charlie's
Hope, she should have a pint bottle o' brandy and a pound o' tobacco to wear her through the
winter. They're queer deevils; as my auld father used to say, they're warst where they're warst
guided. After a', there's baith gude and ill about the gipsies.'

This, and some other desultory conversation, served as a 'shoeing- horn' to draw on another
cup of ale and another 'cheerer,' as Dinmont termed it in his country phrase, of brandy and
water. Brown then resolutely declined all further conviviality for that evening, pleading his
own weariness and the effects of the skirmish, being well aware that it would have availed
nothing to have remonstrated with his host on the danger that excess might have occasioned
to his own raw wound and bloody coxcomb. A very small bed-room, but a very clean bed, received
the traveller, and the sheets made good the courteous vaunt of the hostess, 'that they would
be as pleasant as he could find ony gate, for they were washed wi' the fairy-well water, and
bleached on the bonny white gowans, and bittled by Nelly and herself, and what could woman,
if she was a queen, do mair for them?'

They indeed rivalled snow in whiteness, and had, besides, a pleasant fragrance from the manner
in which they had been bleached. Little Wasp, after licking his master's hand to ask leave,
couched himself on the coverlet at his feet; and the traveller's senses were soon lost in grateful
oblivion.

CHAPTER XXV

     Give ye, Britons, then,
     Your sportive fury, pitiless to pour
     Loose on the nightly robber of the fold.
     Him from his craggy winding haunts unearth'd,
     Let all the thunder of the chase pursue.

           THOMSON'S Seasons.

Brown rose early in the morning and walked out to look at the establishment of his new friend.
All was rough and neglected in the neighbourhood of the house;--a paltry garden, no pains taken
to make the vicinity dry or comfortable, and a total absence of all those little neatnesses
which give the eye so much pleasure in looking at an English farm-house. There were, notwithstanding,
evident signs that this arose only from want of taste or ignorance, not from poverty or the
negligence which attends it. On the contrary, a noble cow-house, well filled with good milk-cows,
a feeding-house, with ten bullocks of the most approved breed, a stable, with two good teams
of horses, the appearance of domestics active, industrious, and apparently contented with their
lot; in a word, an air of liberal though sluttish plenty indicated the wealthy farmer. The
situation of the house above the river formed a gentle declivity, which relieved the inhabitants
of the nuisances that might otherwise have stagnated around it. At a little distance was the
whole band of children playing and building houses with peats around a huge doddered oak-tree,
which was called Charlie's Bush, from some tradition respecting an old freebooter who had once
inhabited the spot. Between the farm-house and the hill-pasture was a deep morass, termed in
that country a slack; it had once been the defence of a fortalice, of which no vestiges now
remained, but which was said to have been inhabited by the same doughty hero we have now alluded
to. Brown endeavoured to make some acquaintance with the children, but 'the rogues fled from
him like quicksilver,' though the two eldest stood peeping when they had got to some distance.
The traveller then turned his course towards the hill, crossing the foresaid swamp by a range
of stepping-stones, neither the broadest nor steadiest that could be imagined. He had not climbed
far up the hill when he met a man descending.

He soon recognised his worthy host, though a 'maud,' as it is called, or a grey shepherd's
plaid, supplied his travelling jockey-coat, and a cap, faced with wild-cat's fur, more commodiously
covered his bandaged head than a hat would have done. As he appeared through the morning mist,
Brown, accustomed to judge of men by their thewes and sinews, could not help admiring his height,
the breadth of his shoulders, and the steady firmness of his step. Dinmont internally paid
the same compliment to Brown, whose athletic form he now perused somewhat more at leisure than
he had done formerly. After the usual greetings of the morning, the guest inquired whether
his host found any inconvenient consequences from the last night's affray.

'I had maist forgotten't,' said the hardy Borderer; 'but I think this morning, now that I am
fresh and sober, if you and I were at the Withershins' Latch, wi' ilka ane a gude oak souple
in his hand, we wadna turn back, no for half a dizzen o' yon scaff-raff.'

'But are you prudent, my good sir,' said Brown, 'not to take an hour or two's repose after
receiving such severe contusions?'

'Confusions!' replied the farmer, laughing in derision. 'Lord, Captain, naething confuses my
head. I ance jumped up and laid the dogs on the fox after I had tumbled from the tap o' Christenbury
Craig, and that might have confused me to purpose. Na, naething confuses me, unless it be a
screed o' drink at an orra time. Besides, I behooved to be round the hirsel this morning and
see how the herds were coming on; they're apt to be negligent wi' their footballs, and fairs,
and trysts, when ane's away. And there I met wi' Tarn o' Todshaw, and a wheen o' the rest o'
the billies on the water side; they're a' for a fox-hunt this morning,--ye'll gang? I'll gie
ye Dumple, and take the brood mare mysell.'

'But I fear I must leave you this morning, Mr. Dinmont,' replied Brown.

'The fient a bit o' that,' exclaimed the Borderer. 'I'll no part wi' ye at ony rate for a fortnight
mair. Na, na; we dinna meet sic friends as you on a Bewcastle moss every night.'

Brown had not designed his journey should be a speedy one; he therefore readily compounded
with this hearty invitation by agreeing to pass a week at Charlie's Hope.

On their return to the house, where the goodwife presided over an ample breakfast, she heard
news of the proposed fox-hunt, not indeed with approbation, but without alarm or surprise.
'Dand! ye're the auld man yet; naething will make ye take warning till ye're brought hame some
day wi' your feet foremost.'

'Tut, lass!' answered Dandle, 'ye ken yoursell I am never a prin the waur o' my rambles.'

So saying, he exhorted Brown to be hasty in despatching his breakfast, as, 'the frost having
given way, the scent would lie this morning primely.'

Out they sallied accordingly for Otterscope Scaurs, the farmer leading the way. They soon quitted
the little valley, and involved themselves among hills as steep as they could be without being
precipitous. The sides often presented gullies, down which, in the winter season, or after
heavy rain, the torrents descended with great fury. Some dappled mists still floated along
the peaks of the hills, the remains of the morning clouds, for the frost had broken up with
a smart shower. Through these fleecy screens were seen a hundred little temporary streamlets,
or rills, descending the sides of the mountains like silver threads. By small sheep- tracks
along these steeps, over which Dinmont trotted with the most fearless confidence, they at length
drew near the scene of sport, and began to see other men, both on horse and foot, making toward
the place of rendezvous. Brown was puzzling himself to conceive how a fox-chase could take
place among hills, where it was barely possible for a pony, accustomed to the ground, to trot
along, but where, quitting the track for half a yard's breadth, the rider might be either bogged
or precipitated down the bank. This wonder was not diminished when he came to the place of action.

They had gradually ascended very high, and now found themselves on a mountain-ridge, overhanging
a glen of great depth, but extremely narrow. Here the sportsmen had collected, with an apparatus
which would have shocked a member of the Pychely Hunt; for, the object being the removal of
a noxious and destructive animal, as well as the pleasures of the chase, poor Reynard was allowed
much less fair play than when pursued in form through an open country. The strength of his
habitation, however, and the nature of the ground by which it was surrounded on all sides,
supplied what was wanting in the courtesy of his pursuers. The sides of the glen were broken
banks of earth and rocks of rotten stone, which sunk sheer down to the little winding stream
below, affording here and there a tuft of scathed brushwood or a patch of furze. Along the
edges of this ravine, which, as we have said, was very narrow, but of profound depth, the hunters
on horse and foot ranged themselves; almost every farmer had with him at least a brace of large
and fierce greyhounds, of the race of those deer-dogs which were formerly used in that country,
but greatly lessened in size from being crossed with the common breed. The huntsman, a sort
of provincial officer of the district, who receives a certain supply of meal, and a reward
for every fox he destroys, was already at the bottom of the dell, whose echoes thundered to
the chiding of two or three brace of foxhounds. Terriers, including the whole generation of
Pepper and Mustard, were also in attendance, having been sent forward under the care of a shepherd.
Mongrel, whelp, and cur of low degree filled up the burden of the chorus. The spectators on
the brink of the ravine, or glen, held their greyhounds in leash in readiness to slip them
at the fox as soon as the activity of the party below should force him to abandon his cover.

The scene, though uncouth to the eye of a professed sportsman, had something in it wildly captivating.
The shifting figures on the mountain-ridge, having the sky for their background, appeared to
move in the air. The dogs, impatient of their restraint, and maddened with the baying beneath,
sprung here and there, and strained at the slips, which prevented them from joining their companions.
Looking down, the view was equally striking. The thin mists were not totally dispersed in the
glen, so that it was often through their gauzy medium that the eye strove to discover the motions
of the hunters below. Sometimes a breath of wind made the scene visible, the blue rill glittering
as it twined itself through its rude and solitary dell. They then could see the shepherds springing
with fearless activity from one dangerous point to another, and cheering the dogs on the scent,
the whole so diminished by depth and distance that they looked like pigmies. Again the mists
close over them, and the only signs of their continued exertions are the halloos of the men
and the clamours of the hounds, ascending as it were out of the bowels of the earth. When the
fox, thus persecuted from one stronghold to another, was at length obliged to abandon his valley,
and to break away for a more distant retreat, those who watched his motions from the top slipped
their greyhounds, which, excelling the fox in swiftness, and equalling him in ferocity and
spirit, soon brought the plunderer to his life's end.

In this way, without any attention to the ordinary rules and decorums of sport, but apparently
as much to the gratification both of bipeds and quadrupeds as if all due ritual had been followed,
four foxes were killed on this active morning; and even Brown himself, though he had seen the
princely sports of India, and ridden a-tiger-hunting upon an elephant with the Nabob of Arcot,
professed to have received an excellent morning's amusement. When the sport was given up for
the day, most of the sportsmen, according to the established hospitality of the country, went
to dine at Charlie's Hope.

During their return homeward Brown rode for a short time beside the huntsman, and asked him
some questions concerning the mode in which he exercised his profession. The man showed an
unwillingness to meet his eye, and a disposition to be rid of his company and conversation,
for which Brown could not easily account. He was a thin, dark, active fellow, well framed for
the hardy profession which he exercised. But his face had not the frankness of the jolly hunter;
he was down-looked, embarrassed, and avoided the eyes of those who looked hard at him. After
some unimportant observations on the success of the day, Brown gave him a trifling gratuity,
and rode on with his landlord. They found the goodwife prepared for their reception; the fold
and the poultry-yard furnished the entertainment, and the kind and hearty welcome made amends
for all deficiencies in elegance and fashion.

CHAPTER XXVI

     The Elliots and Armstrongs did convene,
     They were a gallant company!

          Ballad of Johnnie Armstrong

Without noticing the occupations of an intervening day or two, which, as they consisted of
the ordinary silvan amusements of shooting and coursing, have nothing sufficiently interesting
to detain the reader, we pass to one in some degree peculiar to Scotland, which may be called
a sort of salmon-hunting. This chase, in which the fish is pursued and struck with barbed spears,
or a sort of long-shafted trident, called a waster, is much practised at the mouth of the Esk
and in the other salmon rivers of Scotland. The sport is followed by day and night, but most
commonly in the latter, when the fish are discovered by means of torches, or fire-grates, filled
with blazing fragments of tar- barrels, which shed a strong though partial light upon the water.
On the present occasion the principal party were embarked in a crazy boat upon a part of the
river which was enlarged and deepened by the restraint of a mill-wear, while others, like the
ancient Bacchanals in their gambols, ran along the banks, brandishing their torches and spears,
and pursuing the salmon, some of which endeavoured to escape up the stream, while others, shrouding
themselves under roots of trees, fragments of stones, and large rocks, attempted to conceal
themselves from the researches of the fishermen. These the party in the boat detected by the
slightest indications; the twinkling of a fin, the rising of an airbell, was sufficient to
point out to these adroit sportsmen in what direction to use their weapon.

The scene was inexpressibly animating to those accustomed to it; but, as Brown was not practised
to use the spear, he soon tired of making efforts which were attended with no other consequences
than jarring his arms against the rocks at the bottom of the river, upon which, instead of
the devoted salmon, he often bestowed his blow. Nor did he relish, though he concealed feelings
which would not have been understood, being quite so near the agonies of the expiring salmon,
as they lay flapping about in the boat, which they moistened with their blood. He therefore
requested to be put ashore, and, from the top of a heugh or broken bank, enjoyed the scene
much more to his satisfaction. Often he thought of his friend Dudley the artist, when he observed
the effect produced by the strong red glare on the romantic banks under which the boat glided.
Now the light diminished to a distant star that seemed to twinkle on the waters, like those
which, according to the legends of the country, the water-kelpy sends for the purpose of indicating
the watery grave of his victims. Then it advanced nearer, brightening and enlarging as it again
approached, till the broad flickering flame rendered bank and rock and tree visible as it passed,
tingeing them with its own red glare of dusky light, and resigning them gradually to darkness,
or to pale moonlight, as it receded. By this light also were seen the figures in the boat,
now holding high their weapons, now stooping to strike, now standing upright, bronzed by the
same red glare into a colour which might have befitted the regions of Pandemonium.

Having amused himself for some time with these effects of light and shadow, Brown strolled
homewards towards the farm-house, gazing in his way at the persons engaged in the sport, two
or three of whom are generally kept together, one holding the torch, the others with their
spears, ready to avail themselves of the light it affords to strike their prey. As he observed
one man struggling with a very weighty salmon which he had speared, but was unable completely
to raise from the water, Brown advanced close to the bank to see the issue of his exertions.
The man who held the torch in this instance was the huntsman, whose sulky demeanour Brown had
already noticed with surprise. 'Come here, sir! come here, sir! look at this ane! He turns
up a side like a sow.' Such was the cry from the assistants when some of them observed Brown
advancing.

'Ground the waster weel, man! ground the waster weel! Haud him down! Ye haena the pith o' a
cat!' were the cries of advice, encouragement, and expostulation from those who were on the
bank to the sportsman engaged with the salmon, who stood up to his middle in water, jingling
among broken ice, struggling against the force of the fish and the strength of the current,
and dubious in what manner he should attempt to secure his booty. As Brown came to the edge
of the bank, he called out--'Hold up your torch, friend huntsman!' for he had already distinguished
his dusky features by the strong light cast upon them by the blaze. But the fellow no sooner
heard his voice, and saw, or rather concluded, it was Brown who approached him, than, instead
of advancing his light, he let it drop, as if accidentally, into the water.

'The deil's in Gabriel!' said the spearman, as the fragments of glowing wood floated half-blazing,
half-sparkling, but soon extinguished, down the stream. 'The deil's in the man! I'll never
master him without the light; and a braver kipper, could I but land him, never reisted abune
a pair o' cleeks.'[Footnote: See Note 4] Some dashed into the water to lend their assistance,
and the fish, which was afterwards found to weigh nearly thirty pounds, was landed in safety.

The behaviour of the huntsman struck Brown, although he had no recollection of his face, nor
could conceive why he should, as it appeared he evidently did, shun his observation. Could
he be one of the footpads he had encountered a few days before? The supposition was not altogether
improbable, although unwarranted by any observation he was able to make upon the man's figure
and face. To be sure the villains wore their hats much slouched, and had loose coats, and their
size was not in any way so peculiarly discriminated as to enable him to resort to that criterion.
He resolved to speak to his host Dinmont on the subject, but for obvious reasons concluded
it were best to defer the explanation until a cool hour in the morning.

The sportsmen returned loaded with fish, upwards of one hundred salmon having been killed within
the range of their sport. The best were selected for the use of the principal farmers, the
others divided among their shepherds, cottars, dependents, and others of inferior rank who
attended. These fish, dried in the turf smoke of their cabins or shealings, formed a savoury
addition to the mess of potatoes, mixed with onions, which was the principal part of their
winter food. In the meanwhile a liberal distribution of ale and whisky was made among them,
besides what was called a kettle of fish,--two or three salmon, namely, plunged into a cauldron
and boiled for their supper. Brown accompanied his jolly landlord and the rest of his friends
into the large and smoky kitchen, where this savoury mess reeked on an oaken table, massive
enough to have dined Johnnie Armstrong and his merry-men. All was hearty cheer and huzza, and
jest and clamorous laughter, and bragging alternately, and raillery between whiles. Our traveller
looked earnestly around for the dark countenance of the fox-hunter; but it was nowhere to be seen.

At length he hazarded a question concerning him. 'That was an awkward accident, my lads, of
one of you, who dropped his torch in the water when his companion was struggling with the large
fish.'

'Awkward!' returned a shepherd, looking up (the same stout young fellow who had speared the
salmon); 'he deserved his paiks for't, to put out the light when the fish was on ane's witters!
I'm weel convinced Gabriel drapped the roughies in the water on purpose; he doesna like to
see ony body do a thing better than himsell.'

'Ay,' said another, 'he's sair shamed o' himsell, else he would have been up here the night;
Gabriel likes a little o' the gude thing as weel as ony o' us.'

'Is he of this country?' said Brown.

'Na, na, he's been but shortly in office, but he's a fell hunter; he's frae down the country,
some gate on the Dumfries side.'

'And what's his name, pray?'

'Gabriel.'

'But Gabriel what?'

'Oh, Lord kens that; we dinna mind folk's afternames muckle here, they run sae muckle into clans.'

'Ye see, sir,' said an old shepherd, rising, and speaking very slow, 'the folks hereabout are
a' Armstrongs and Elliots,[Footnote: See Note 5] and sic like--two or three given names--and
so, for distinction's sake, the lairds and farmers have the names of their places that they
live at; as, for example, Tam o' Todshaw, Will o' the Flat, Hobbie o' Sorbietrees, and our
good master here o' the Charlie's Hope. Aweel, sir, and then the inferior sort o' people, ye'll
observe, are kend by sorts o' by- names some o' them, as Glaiket Christie, and the Deuke's
Davie, or maybe, like this lad Gabriel, by his employment; as, for example, Tod Gabbie, or
Hunter Gabbie. He's no been lang here, sir, and I dinna think ony body kens him by ony other
name. But it's no right to rin him doun ahint his back, for he's a fell fox-hunter, though
he's maybe no just sae clever as some o' the folk hereawa wi' the waster.'

After some further desultory conversation, the superior sportsmen retired to conclude the evening
after their own manner, leaving the others to enjoy themselves, unawed by their presence. That
evening, like all those which Brown had passed at Charlie's Hope, was spent in much innocent
mirth and conviviality. The latter might have approached to the verge of riot but for the good
women; for several of the neighbouring mistresses (a phrase of a signification how different
from what it bears in more fashionable life!) had assembled at Charlie's Hope to witness the
event of this memorable evening. Finding the punch-bowl was so often replenished that there
was some danger of their gracious presence being forgotten, they rushed in valorously upon
the recreant revellers, headed by our good mistress Ailie, so that Venus speedily routed Bacchus.
The fiddler and piper next made their appearance, and the best part of the night was gallantly
consumed in dancing to their music.

An otter-hunt the next day, and a badger-baiting the day after, consumed the time merrily.
I hope our traveller will not sink in the reader's estimation, sportsman though he may be,
when I inform him that on this last occasion, after young Pepper had lost a fore-foot and Mustard
the second had been nearly throttled, he begged, as a particular and personal favour of Mr.
Dinmont, that the poor badger, who had made so gallant a defence, should be permitted to retire
to his earth without farther molestation.

The farmer, who would probably have treated this request with supreme contempt had it come
from any other person, was contented in Brown's case to express the utter extremity of his
wonder. 'Weel,' he said, 'that's queer aneugh! But since ye take his part, deil a tyke shall
meddle wi' him mair in my day. We'll e'en mark him, and ca' him the Captain's brock; and I'm
sure I'm glad I can do ony thing to oblige you,--but, Lord save us, to care about a brock!'

After a week spent in rural sport, and distinguished by the most frank attentions on the part
of his honest landlord, Brown bade adieu to the banks of the Liddel and the hospitality of
Charlie's Hope. The children, with all of whom he had now become an intimate and a favourite,
roared manfully in full chorus at his departure, and he was obliged to promise twenty times
that he would soon return and play over all their favourite tunes upon the flageolet till they
had got them by heart. 'Come back again, Captain,' said one little sturdy fellow, 'and Jenny
will be your wife.' Jenny was about eleven years old; she ran and hid herself behind her mammy.

'Captain, come back,' said a little fat roll-about girl of six, holding her mouth up to be
kissed, 'and I'll be your wife my ainsell.'

'They must be of harder mould than I,' thought Brown, 'who could part from so many kind hearts
with indifference.' The good dame too, with matron modesty, and an affectionate simplicity
that marked the olden time, offered her cheek to the departing guest. 'It's little the like
of us can do,' she said, 'little indeed; but yet, if there were but ony thing--'

'Now, my dear Mrs. Dinmont, you embolden me to make a request: would you but have the kindness
to weave me, or work me, just such a grey plaid as the goodman wears?' He had learned the language
and feelings of the country even during the short time of his residence, and was aware of the
pleasure the request would confer.

'A tait o' woo' would be scarce amang us,' said the goodwife, brightening, 'if ye shouldna
hae that, and as gude a tweel as ever cam aff a pirn. I'll speak to Johnnie Goodsire, the weaver
at the Castletown, the morn. Fare ye weel, sir! and may ye be just as happy yoursell as ye
like to see a' body else; and that would be a sair wish to some folk.'

I must not omit to mention that our traveller left his trusty attendant Wasp to be a guest
at Charlie's Hope for a season. He foresaw that he might prove a troublesome attendant in the
event of his being in any situation where secrecy and concealment might be necessary. He was
therefore consigned to the care of the eldest boy, who promised, in the words of the old song,
that he should have

     A bit of his supper, a bit of his bed,

and that he should be engaged in none of those perilous pastimes in which the race of Mustard
and Pepper had suffered frequent mutilation. Brown now prepared for his journey, having taken
a temporary farewell of his trusty little companion.

There is an odd prejudice in these hills in favour of riding. Every farmer rides well, and
rides the whole day. Probably the extent of their large pasture farms, and the necessity of
surveying them rapidly, first introduced this custom; or a very zealous antiquary might derive
it from the times of the 'Lay of the Last Minstrel,' when twenty thousand horsemen assembled
at the light of the beacon-fires. [Footnote: It would be affectation to alter this reference.
But the reader will understand that it was inserted to keep up the author's incognito, as he
was not likely to be suspected of quoting his own works. This explanation is also applicable
to one or two similar passages, in this and the other novels, introduced for the same reason.]
But the truth is undeniable; they like to be on horseback, and can be with difficulty convinced
that any one chooses walking from other motives than those of convenience or necessity. Accordingly,
Dinmont insisted upon mounting his guest and accompanying him on horseback as far as the nearest
town in Dumfries-shire, where he had directed his baggage to be sent, and from which he proposed
to pursue his intended journey towards Woodbourne, the residence of Julia Mannering.

Upon the way he questioned his companion concerning the character of the fox-hunter; but gained
little information, as he had been called to that office while Dinmont was making the round
of the Highland fairs. 'He was a shake-rag like fellow,' he said, 'and, he dared to say, had
gipsy blood in his veins; but at ony rate he was nane o' the smaiks that had been on their
quarters in the moss; he would ken them weel if he saw them again. There are some no bad folk
amang the gipsies too, to be sic a gang,' added Dandie; 'if ever I see that auld randle-tree
of a wife again, I'll gie her something to buy tobacco. I have a great notion she meant me
very fair after a'.'

