Notwithstanding the extreme severities of King James I. and Charles I. against this unfortunate
people, who were rendered furious by proscription, and then punished for yielding to the passions
which had been wilfully irritated, the MacGregors to a man attached themselves during the civil
war to the cause of the latter monarch. Their bards have ascribed this to the native respect
of the MacGregors for the crown of Scotland, which their ancestors once wore, and have appealed
to their armorial bearings, which display a pine-tree crossed saltire wise with a naked sword,
the point of which supports a royal crown. But, without denying that such motives may have
had their weight, we are disposed to think, that a war which opened the low country to the
raids of the clan Gregor would have more charms for them than any inducement to espouse the
cause of the Covenanters, which would have brought them into contact with Highlanders as fierce
as themselves, and having as little to lose. Patrick MacGregor, their leader, was the son of
a distinguished chief, named Duncan Abbarach, to whom Montrose wrote letters as to his trusty
and special friend, expressing his reliance on his devoted loyalty, with an assurance, that
when once his Majesty's affairs were placed upon a permanent footing, the grievances of the
clan MacGregor should be redressed.

At a subsequent period of these melancholy times, we find the clan Gregor claiming the immunities
of other tribes, when summoned by the Scottish Parliament to resist the invasion of the Commonwealth's
army, in 1651. On the last day of March in that year, a supplication to the King and Parliament,
from Calum MacCondachie Vich Euen, and Euen MacCondachie Euen, in their own name, and that
of the whole name of MacGregor, set forth, that while, in obedience to the orders of Parliament,
enjoining all clans to come out in the present service under their chieftains, for the defence
of religion, king, and kingdoms, the petitioners were drawing their men to guard the passes
at the head of the river Forth, they were interfered with by the Earl of Athole and the Laird
of Buchanan, who had required the attendance of many of the clan Gregor upon their arrays.
This interference was, doubtless, owing to the change of name, which seems to have given rise
to the claim of the Earl of Athole and the Laird of Buchanan to muster the MacGregors under
their banners, as Murrays or Buchanans. It does not appear that the petition of the MacGregors,
to be permitted to come out in a body, as other clans, received any answer. But upon the Restoration,
King Charles, in the first Scottish Parliament of his reign (statute 1661, chap. 195), annulled
the various acts against the clan Gregor, and restored them to the full use of their family
name, and the other privileges of liege subjects, setting forth, as a reason for this lenity,
that those who were formerly designed MacGregors had, during the late troubles, conducted themselves
with such loyalty and affection to his Majesty, as might justly wipe off all memory of former
miscarriages, and take away all marks of reproach for the same.

It is singular enough, that it seems to have aggravated the feelings of the non-conforming
Presbyterians, when the penalties which were most unjustly imposed upon themselves were relaxed
towards the poor MacGregors;--so little are the best men, any more than the worst, able to
judge with impartiality of the same measures, as applied to themselves, or to others. Upon
the Restoration, an influence inimical to this unfortunate clan, said to be the same with that
which afterwards dictated the massacre of Glencoe, occasioned the re-enaction of the penal
statutes against the MacGregors. There are no reasons given why these highly penal acts should
have been renewed; nor is it alleged that the clan had been guilty of late irregularities.
Indeed, there is some reason to think that the clause was formed of set purpose, in a shape
which should elude observation; for, though containing conclusions fatal to the rights of so
many Scottish subjects, it is neither mentioned in the title nor the rubric of the Act of Parliament
in which it occurs, and is thrown briefly in at the close of the statute 1693, chap. 61, entitled,
an Act for the Justiciary in the Highlands.

It does not, however, appear that after the Revolution the acts against the clan were severely
enforced; and in the latter half of the eighteenth century, they were not enforced at all.
Commissioners of supply were named in Parliament by the proscribed title of MacGregor, and
decrees of courts of justice were pronounced, and legal deeds entered into, under the same
appellative. The MacGregors, however, while the laws continued in the statute-book, still suffered
under the deprivation of the name which was their birthright, and some attempts were made for
the purpose of adopting another, MacAlpine or Grant being proposed as the title of the whole
clan in future. No agreement, however, could be entered into; and the evil was submitted to
as a matter of necessity, until full redress was obtained from the British Parliament, by an
act abolishing for ever the penal statutes which had been so long imposed upon this ancient
race. This statute, well merited by the services of many a gentleman of the clan in behalf
of their King and country, was passed, and the clan proceeded to act upon it with the same
spirit of ancient times, which had made them suffer severely under a deprivation that would
have been deemed of little consequence by a great part of their fellow-subjects.

They entered into a deed recognising John Murray of Lanrick, Esq. (afterwards Sir John MacGregor,
Baronet), representative of the family of Glencarnock, as lawfully descended from the ancient
stock and blood of the Lairds and Lords of MacGregor, and therefore acknowledged him as their
chief on all lawful occasions and causes whatsoever. The deed was subscribed by eight hundred
and twenty-six persons of the name of MacGregor, capable of bearing arms. A great many of the
clan during the last war formed themselves into what was called the Clan Alpine Regiment, raised
in 1799, under the command of their Chief and his brother Colonel MacGregor.

Having briefly noticed the history of this clan, which presents a rare and interesting example
of the indelible character of the patriarchal system, the author must now offer some notices
of the individual who gives name to these volumes.

In giving an account of a Highlander, his pedigree is first to be considered. That of Rob Roy
was deduced from Ciar Mhor, the great mouse-coloured man, who is accused by tradition of having
slain the young students at the battle of Glenfruin.

Without puzzling ourselves and our readers with the intricacies of Highland genealogy, it is
enough to say, that after the death of Allaster MacGregor of Glenstrae, the clan, discouraged
by the unremitting persecution of their enemies, seem not to have had the means of placing
themselves under the command of a single chief. According to their places of residence and
immediate descent, the several families were led and directed by Chieftains, which, in the
Highland acceptation, signifies the head of a particular branch of a tribe, in opposition to
Chief, who is the leader and commander of the whole name.

The family and descendants of Dugald Ciar Mhor lived chiefly in the mountains between Loch
Lomond and Loch Katrine, and occupied a good deal of property there--whether by sufferance,
by the right of the sword, which it was never safe to dispute with them, or by legal titles
of various kinds, it would be useless to inquire and unnecessary to detail. Enough;--there
they certainly were--a people whom their most powerful neighbours were desirous to conciliate,
their friendship in peace being very necessary to the quiet of the vicinage, and their assistance
in war equally prompt and effectual.

Rob Roy MacGregor Campbell, which last name he bore in consequence of the Acts of Parliament
abolishing his own, was the younger son of Donald MacGregor of Glengyle, said to have been
a Lieutenant-Colonel (probably in the service of James II.), by his wife, a daughter of Campbell
of Glenfalloch. Rob's own designation was of Inversnaid; but he appears to have acquired a
right of some kind or other to the property or possession of Craig Royston, a domain of rock
and forest, lying on the east side of Loch Lomond, where that beautiful lake stretches into
the dusky mountains of Glenfalloch.

The time of his birth is uncertain. But he is said to have been active in the scenes of war
and plunder which succeeded the Revolution; and tradition affirms him to have been the leader
in a predatory incursion into the parish of Kippen, in the Lennox, which took place in the
year 1691. It was of almost a bloodless character, only one person losing his life; but from
the extent of the depredation, it was long distinguished by the name of the Her'-ship, or devastation,
of Kippen.* The time of his death is also uncertain, but as he is said to have survived the
year 1733, and died an aged man, it is probable he may have been twenty-five about the time
of the Her'-ship of Kippen, which would assign his birth to the middle of the 17th century.

* See Statistcal Account of Scotland, 1st edition, vol. xviii. p. 332. Parish of * Kippen.

In the more quiet times which succeeded the Revolution, Rob Roy, or Red Robert, seems to have
exerted his active talents, which were of no mean order, as a drover, or trader in cattle,
to a great extent. It may well be supposed that in those days no Lowland, much less English
drovers, ventured to enter the Highlands. The cattle, which were the staple commodity of the
mountains, were escorted down to fairs, on the borders of the Lowlands, by a party of Highlanders,
with their arms rattling around them; and who dealt, however, in all honour and good faith
with their Southern customers. A fray, indeed, would sometimes arise, when the Lowlandmen,
chiefly Borderers, who had to supply the English market, used to dip their bonnets in the next
brook, and wrapping them round their hands, oppose their cudgels to the naked broadswords,
which had not always the superiority. I have heard from aged persons who had been engaged in
such affrays, that the Highlanders used remarkably fair play, never using the point of the
sword, far less their pistols or daggers; so that

               With many a stiff thwack and many a bang,
                   Hard crabtree and cold iron rang.

A slash or two, or a broken head, was easily accommodated, and as the trade was of benefit
to both parties, trifling skirmishes were not allowed to interrupt its harmony. Indeed it was
of vital interest to the Highlanders, whose income, so far as derived from their estates, depended
entirely on the sale of black cattle; and a sagacious and experienced dealer benefited not
only himself, but his friends and neighbours, by his speculations. Those of Rob Roy were for
several years so successful as to inspire general confidence, and raise him in the estimation
of the country in which he resided.

His importance was increased by the death of his father, in consequence of which he succeeded
to the management of his nephew Gregor MacGregor of Glengyle's property, and, as his tutor,
to such influence with the clan and following as was due to the representative of Dugald Ciar.
Such influence was the more uncontrolled, that this family of the MacGregors seemed to have
refused adherence to MacGregor of Glencarnock, the ancestor of the present Sir Ewan MacGregor,
and asserted a kind of independence.

It was at this time that Rob Roy acquired an interest by purchase, wadset, or otherwise, to
the property of Craig Royston already mentioned. He was in particular favour, during this prosperous
period of his life, with his nearest and most powerful neighbour, James, first Duke of Montrose,
from whom he received many marks of regard. His Grace consented to give his nephew and himself
a right of property on the estates of Glengyle and Inversnaid, which they had till then only
held as kindly tenants. The Duke also, with a view to the interest of the country and his own
estate, supported our adventurer by loans of money to a considerable amount, to enable him
to carry on his speculations in the cattle trade.

Unfortunately that species of commerce was and is liable to sudden fluctuations; and Rob Roy
was, by a sudden depression of markets, and, as a friendly tradition adds, by the bad faith
of a partner named MacDonald, whom he had imprudently received into his confidence, and intrusted
with a considerable sum of money, rendered totally insolvent. He absconded, of course--not
empty-handed, if it be true, as stated in an advertisement for his apprehension, that he had
in his possession sums to the amount of L1000 sterling, obtained from several noblemen and
gentlemen under pretence of purchasing cows for them in the Highlands. This advertisement appeared
in June 1712, and was several times repeated. It fixes the period when Rob Roy exchanged his
commercial adventures for speculations of a very different complexion.*

* See Appendix, No. I.

He appears at this period first to have removed from his ordinary dwelling at Inversnaid, ten
or twelve Scots miles (which is double the number of English) farther into the Highlands, and
commenced the lawless sort of life which he afterwards followed. The Duke of Montrose, who
conceived himself deceived and cheated by MacGregor's conduct, employed legal means to recover
the money lent to him. Rob Roy's landed property was attached by the regular form of legal
procedure, and his stock and furniture made the subject of arrest and sale.

It is said that this diligence of the law, as it is called in Scotland, which the English more
bluntly term distress, was used in this case with uncommon severity, and that the legal satellites,
not usually the gentlest persons in the world, had insulted MacGregor's wife, in a manner which
would have aroused a milder man than he to thoughts of unbounded vengeance. She was a woman
of fierce and haughty temper, and is not unlikely to have disturbed the officers in the execution
of their duty, and thus to have incurred ill treatment, though, for the sake of humanity, it
is to be hoped that the story sometimes told is a popular exaggeration. It is certain that
she felt extreme anguish at being expelled from the banks of Loch Lomond, and gave vent to
her feelings in a fine piece of pipe-music, still well known to amateurs by the name of "Rob
Roy's Lament."

The fugitive is thought to have found his first place of refuge in Glen Dochart, under the
Earl of Breadalbane's protection; for, though that family had been active agents in the destruction
of the MacGregors in former times, they had of late years sheltered a great many of the name
in their old possessions. The Duke of Argyle was also one of Rob Roy's protectors, so far as
to afford him, according to the Highland phrase, wood and water--the shelter, namely, that
is afforded by the forests and lakes of an inaccessible country.

The great men of the Highlands in that time, besides being anxiously ambitious to keep up what
was called their Following, or military retainers, were also desirous to have at their disposal
men of resolute character, to whom the world and the world's law were no friends, and who might
at times ravage the lands or destroy the tenants of a feudal enemy, without bringing responsibility
on their patrons. The strife between the names of Campbell and Graham, during the civil wars
of the seventeenth century, had been stamped with mutual loss and inveterate enmity. The death
of the great Marquis of Montrose on the one side, the defeat at Inverlochy, and cruel plundering
of Lorn, on the other, were reciprocal injuries not likely to be forgotten. Rob Roy was, therefore,
sure of refuge in the country of the Campbells, both as having assumed their name, as connected
by his mother with the family of Glenfalloch, and as an enemy to the rival house of Montrose.
The extent of Argyle's possessions, and the power of retreating thither in any emergency, gave
great encouragement to the bold schemes of revenge which he had adopted.

This was nothing short of the maintenance of a predatory war against the Duke of Montrose,
whom he considered as the author of his exclusion from civil society, and of the outlawry to
which he had been sentenced by letters of horning and caption (legal writs so called), as well
as the seizure of his goods, and adjudication of his landed property. Against his Grace, therefore,
his tenants, friends, allies, and relatives, he disposed himself to employ every means of annoyance
in his power; and though this was a circle sufficiently extensive for active depredation, Rob,
who professed himself a Jacobite, took the liberty of extending his sphere of operations against
all whom he chose to consider as friendly to the revolutionary government, or to that most
obnoxious of measures--the Union of the Kingdoms. Under one or other of these pretexts, all
his neighbours of the Lowlands who had anything to lose, or were unwilling to compound for
security by paying him an annual sum for protection or forbearance, were exposed to his ravages.

The country in which this private warfare, or system of depredation, was to be carried on,
was, until opened up by roads, in the highest degree favourable for his purpose. It was broken
up into narrow valleys, the habitable part of which bore no proportion to the huge wildernesses
of forest, rocks, and precipices by which they were encircled, and which was, moreover, full
of inextricable passes, morasses, and natural strengths, unknown to any but the inhabitants
themselves, where a few men acquainted with the ground were capable, with ordinary address,
of baffling the pursuit of numbers.

The opinions and habits of the nearest neighbours to the Highland line were also highly favourable
to Rob Roy's purpose. A large proportion of them were of his own clan of MacGregor, who claimed
the property of Balquhidder, and other Highland districts, as having been part of the ancient
possessions of their tribe; though the harsh laws, under the severity of which they had suffered
so deeply, had assigned the ownership to other families. The civil wars of the seventeenth
century had accustomed these men to the use of arms, and they were peculiarly brave and fierce
from remembrance of their sufferings. The vicinity of a comparatively rich Lowland district
gave also great temptations to incursion. Many belonging to other clans, habituated to contempt
of industry, and to the use of arms, drew towards an unprotected frontier which promised facility
of plunder; and the state of the country, now so peaceable and quiet, verified at that time
the opinion which Dr. Johnson heard with doubt and suspicion, that the most disorderly and
lawless districts of the Highlands were those which lay nearest to the Lowland line. There
was, therefore, no difficulty in Rob Roy, descended of a tribe which was widely dispersed in
the country we have described, collecting any number of followers whom he might be able to
keep in action, and to maintain by his proposed operations.

He himself appears to have been singularly adapted for the profession which he proposed to
exercise. His stature was not of the tallest, but his person was uncommonly strong and compact.
The greatest peculiarities of his frame were the breadth of his shoulders, and the great and
almost disproportionate length of his arms; so remarkable, indeed, that it was said he could,
without stooping, tie the garters of his Highland hose, which are placed two inches below the
knee. His countenance was open, manly, stern at periods of danger, but frank and cheerful in
his hours of festivity. His hair was dark red, thick, and frizzled, and curled short around
the face. His fashion of dress showed, of course, the knees and upper part of the leg, which
was described to me, as resembling that of a Highland bull, hirsute, with red hair, and evincing
muscular strength similar to that animal. To these personal qualifications must be added a
masterly use of the Highland sword, in which his length of arm gave him great advantage--and
a perfect and intimate knowledge of all the recesses of the wild country in which he harboured,
and the character of the various individuals, whether friendly or hostile, with whom he might
come in contact.

His mental qualities seem to have been no less adapted to the circumstances in which he was
placed. Though the descendant of the blood-thirsty Ciar Mhor, he inherited none of his ancestor's
ferocity. On the contrary, Rob Roy avoided every appearance of cruelty, and it is not averred
that he was ever the means of unnecessary bloodshed, or the actor in any deed which could lead
the way to it. His schemes of plunder were contrived and executed with equal boldness and sagacity,
and were almost universally successful, from the skill with which they were laid, and the secrecy
and rapidity with which they were executed. Like Robin Hood of England, he was a kind and gentle
robber,--and, while he took from the rich, was liberal in relieving the poor. This might in
part be policy; but the universal tradition of the country speaks it to have arisen from a
better motive. All whom I have conversed with, and I have in my youth seen some who knew Rob
Roy personally, give him the character of a benevolent and humane man "in his way."

His ideas of morality were those of an Arab chief, being such as naturally arose out of his
wild education.

