Louis XIV. was made for a brilliant Court.  In the midst of other men, his figure, his courage,
his grace, his beauty, his grand mien, even the tone of his voice and the majestic and natural
charm of all his person, distinguished him till his death as the King Bee, and showed that
if he had only been born a simple private gentlemen, he would equally have excelled in fetes,
pleasures, and gallantry, and would have had the greatest success in love.  The intrigues and
adventures which early in life he had been engaged in--when the Comtesse de Soissons lodged
at the Tuileries, as superintendent of the Queen's household, and was the centre figure of
the Court group--had exercised an unfortunate influence upon him: he received those impressions
with which he could never after successfully struggle.  From this time, intellect, education,
nobility of sentiment, and high principle, in others, became objects of suspicion to him, and
soon of hatred.  The more he advanced in years the more this sentiment was confirmed in him.
He wished to reign by himself.  His jealousy on this point unceasingly became weakness.  He
reigned, indeed, in little things; the great he could never reach: even in the former, too,
he was often governed.  The superior ability of his early ministers and his early generals
soon wearied him.  He liked nobody to be in any way superior to him.  Thus he chose his ministers,
not for their knowledge, but for their ignorance; not for their capacity, but for their want
of it.  He liked to form them, as he said; liked to teach them even the most trifling things.
It was the same with his generals.  He took credit to himself for instructing them; wished
it to be thought that from his cabinet he commanded and directed all his armies.  Naturally
fond of trifles, he unceasingly occupied himself with the most petty details of his troops,
his household, his mansions; would even instruct his cooks, who received, like novices, lessons
they had known by heart for years. This vanity, this unmeasured and unreasonable love of admiration,
was his ruin.  His ministers, his generals, his mistresses, his courtiers, soon perceived his
weakness.  They praised him with emulation and spoiled him. Praises, or to say truth, flattery,
pleased him to such an extent, that the coarsest was well received, the vilest even better
relished.  It was the sole means by which you could approach him.  Those whom he liked owed
his affection for them to their untiring flatteries.  This is what gave his ministers so much
authority, and the opportunities they had for adulating him, of attributing everything to him,
and of pretending to learn everything from him.  Suppleness, meanness, an admiring, dependent,
cringing manner--above all, an air of nothingness--were the sole means of pleasing him.

This poison spread.  It spread, too, to an incredible extent, in a prince who, although of
intellect beneath mediocrity, was not utterly without sense, and who had had some experience.
Without voice or musical knowledge, he used to sing, in private, the passages of the opera
prologues that were fullest of his praises.

He was drowned in vanity; and so deeply, that at his public suppers--all the Court present,
musicians also--he would hum these self-same praises between his teeth, when the music they
were set to was played!

And yet, it must be admitted, he might have done better.  Though his intellect, as I have said,
was beneath mediocrity, it was capable of being formed.  He loved glory, was fond of order
and regularity; was by disposition prudent, moderate, discreet, master of his movements and
his tongue.  Will it be believed?  He was also by disposition good and just! God had sufficiently
gifted him to enable him to be a good King; perhaps even a, tolerably great King!  All the
evil came to him from elsewhere. His early education was so neglected that nobody dared approach
his apartment.  He has often been heard to speak of those times with bitterness, and even to
relate that, one evening he was found in the basin of the Palais Royal garden fountain, into
which he had fallen!  He was scarcely taught how to read or write, and remained so ignorant,
that the most familiar historical and other facts were utterly unknown to him! He fell, accordingly,
and sometimes even in public, into the grossest absurdities.

It was his vanity, his desire for glory, that led him, soon after the death of the King of
Spain, to make that event the pretext for war; in spite of the renunciations so recently made,
so carefully stipulated, in the marriage contract.  He marched into Flanders; his conquests
there were rapid; the passage of the Rhine was admirable; the triple alliance of England, Sweden,
and Holland only animated him.  In the midst of winter he took Franche-Comte, by restoring
which at the peace of Aix-la- Chapelle, he preserved his conquests in Flanders.  All was flourishing
then in the state.  Riches everywhere.  Colbert had placed the finances, the navy, commerce,
manufactures, letters even, upon the highest point; and this age, like that of Augustus, produced
in abundance illustrious men of all kinds,-even those illustrious only in pleasures.

Le Tellier and Louvois, his son, who had the war department, trembled at the success and at
the credit of Colbert, and had no difficulty in putting into the head of the King a new war,
the success of which caused such fear to all Europe that France never recovered from it, and
after having been upon the point of succumbing to this war, for a long time felt the weight
and misfortune of it.  Such was the real cause of that famous Dutch war, to which the King
allowed himself to be pushed, and which his love for Madame de Montespan rendered so unfortunate
for his glory and for his kingdom.  Everything being conquered, everything taken, and Amsterdam
ready to give up her keys, the King yields to his impatience, quits the army, flies to Versailles,
and destroys in an instant all the success of his arms!  He repaired this disgrace by a second
conquest, in person, of Franche-Comte, which this time was preserved by France.

In 1676, the King having returned into Flanders, took Conde; whilst Monsieur took Bouchain.
The armies of the King and of the Prince of Orange approached each other so suddenly and so
closely, that they found themselves front to front near Heurtebise.  According even to the
admission of the enemy, our forces were so superior to those of the Prince of Orange, that
we must have gained the victory if we had attacked.  But the King, after listening to the opinions
of his generals, some for, and some against giving battle, decided for the latter, turned tail,
and the engagement was talked of no more.  The army was much discontented.  Everybody wished
for battle.  The fault therefore of the King made much impression upon the troops, and excited
cruel railleries against us at home and in the foreign courts.  The King stopped but little
longer afterwards in the army, although we were only in the month of May.  He returned to his
mistress.

The following year he returned to Flanders, and took Cambrai; and Monsieur besieged Saint-Omer.
Monsieur got the start of the Prince of Orange, who was about to assist the place, gave him
battle near Corsel, obtained a complete victory, immediately took Saint-Omer, and then joined
the King.  This contrast so affected the monarch that never afterwards did he give Monsieur
command of an army!  External appearances were perfectly kept up, but from that moment the
resolution was taken and always well sustained.

