[510]  Suetonius calls this "the great obelisk" in comparison with those which Augustus had
placed in the Circus Maximus and Campus Martius.  The one here mentioned was erected by Caligula
in his Circus, afterwards called the Circus of Nero.  It stood at Heliopolis, having been dedicated
to the sun, as Herodotus informs us, by Phero, son of Sesostris, in acknowledgment of his recovery
from blindness.  It was removed by Pope Sixtus V. in 1586, under the celebrated architect,
Fontana, to the centre of the area before St. Peter's, in the Vatican, not far from its former
position.  This obelisk is a solid piece of red granite, without hieroglyphics, and, with the
pedestal and ornaments at the top, is 182 feet high.  The height of the obelisk itself is 113
palms, or 84 feet.

[511]  Pliny relates some curious particulars of this ship: "A fir tree of prodigious size
was used in the vessel which, by the command of Caligula, brought the obelisk from Egypt, which
stands in the Vatican Circus, and four blocks of the same sort of stone to support it.  Nothing
certainly ever appeared on the sea more astonishing than this vessel; 120,000 bushels of lentiles
served for its ballast; the length of it nearly equalled all the left side of the port of Ostia;
for it was sent there by the emperor Claudius.  The thickness of the tree was as much as four
men could embrace with their arms."--B. xvi. c. 76.

[512]  See AUGUSTUS, c. xxxi.  It appears to have been often a prey to the flames, TIBERIUS,
c. xli.; CALIGULA, c. xx.

[513]  Contrary to the usual custom of rising and saluting the emperor without acclamations.

[514]  A.U.C. 800.

[515]  The Secular Games had been celebrated by Augustus, A.U.C. 736. See c. xxxi. of his life,
and the Epode of Horace written on the occasion.

[516]  In the circus which he had himself built.

[517]  Tophina; Tuffo, a porous stone of volcanic origin, which abounds in the neighbourhood
of Rome, and, with the Travertino, is employed in all common buildings.

[518]  In compliment to the troops to whom he owed his elevation: see before, c. xi.

[519]  Palumbus was a gladiator: and Claudius condescended to pun upon his name, which signifies
a wood-pigeon.

[520]  See before, c. xvii.  Described is c. xx and note.

[521]  See before, AUGUSTUS, c. xxxiv.

[522]  To reward his able services as commander of the army in Britain. See before, c. xvii.

[523]  German tribes between the Elbe and the Weser, whose chief seat was at Bremen, and others
about Ems or Lueneburg.

[524]  This island in the Tiber, opposite the Campus Martius, is said to have been formed by
the corn sown by Tarquin the Proud on that consecrated field, and cut down and thrown by order
of the consuls into the river.  The water being low, it lodged in the bed of the stream, and
gradual deposits of mud raising it above the level of the water, it was in course of time covered
with buildings.  Among these was the temple of Aesculapius, erected A.U.C. 462, to receive
the serpent, the emblem of that deity which was brought to Rome in the time of a plague.  There
is a coin of Antoninus Pius recording this event, and Lumisdus has preserved copies of some
curious votive inscriptions in acknowledgment of cures which were found in its ruins, Antiquities
of Rome, p. 379.

It was common for the patient after having been exposed some nights in the temple, without
being cured, to depart and put an end to his life. Suetonius here informs us that slaves so
exposed, at least obtained their freedom.

[525]  Which were carried on the shoulders of slaves.  This prohibition had for its object
either to save the wear and tear in the narrow streets, or to pay respect to the liberties
of the town.

[526]  See the note in c. i. of this life of CLAUDIUS.

[527]  Seleucus Philopater, son of Antiochus the Great, who being conquered by the Romans,
the succeeding kings of Syria acknowledged the supremacy of Rome.

[528]  Suetonius has already, in TIBERIUS, c. xxxvi., mentioned the expulsion of the Jews from
Rome, and this passage confirms the conjecture, offered in the note, that the Christians were
obscurely alluded to in the former notice.  The antagonism between Christianity and Judaism
appears to have given rise to the tumults which first led the authorities to interfere.  Thus
much we seem to learn from both passages: but the most enlightened men of that age were singularly
ill-informed on the stupendous events which had recently occurred in Judaea, and we find Suetonius,
although he lived at the commencement of the first century of the Christian aera, when the
memory of these occurrences was still fresh, and it might be supposed, by that time, widely
diffused, transplanting Christ from Jerusalem to Rome, and placing him in the time of Claudius,
although the crucifixion took place during the reign of Tiberius.

St. Luke, Acts xviii. 2, mentions the expulsion of the Jews from Rome by the emperor Claudius:
Dio, however, says that he did not expel them, but only forbad their religious assemblies.

It was very natural for Suetonius to write Chrestus instead of Christus, as the former was
a name in use among the Greeks and Romans.  Among others, Cicero mentions a person of that
name in his Fam. Ep. 11. 8.

[529]  Pliny tells us that Druidism had its origin in Gaul, and was transplanted into Britain,
xxi. 1.  Julius Caesar asserts just the contrary, Bell. Gall. vi. 13, 11.  The edict of Claudius
was not carried into effect; at least, we find vestiges of Druidism in Gaul, during the reigns
of Nero and Alexander Severus.

[530]  The Eleusinian mysteries were never transferred from Athens to Rome, notwithstanding
this attempt of Claudius, and although Aurelius Victor says that Adrian effected it.

[531]  A.U.C. 801.

[532]  A.U.C. 773.

[533]  It would seem from this passage, that the cognomen of "the Great," had now been restored
to the descendants of Cneius Pompey, on whom it was first conferred.

[534]  A.U.C. 806.

[535]  A.U.C. 803.

[536]  This is the Felix mentioned in the Acts, cc. xxiii. and xxiv., before whom St. Paul
pleaded.  He is mentioned by Josephus; and Tacitus, who calls him Felix Antonius, gives his
character: Annal. v, 9. 6.

[537]  It appears that two of these wives of Felix were named Drusilla. One, mentioned Acts
xxiv. 24, and there called a Jewess, was the sister of king Agrippa, and had married before,
Azizus, king of the Emessenes. The other Drusilla, though not a queen, was of royal birth,
being the granddaughter of Cleopatra by Mark Antony.  Who the third wife of Felix was, is unknown.

[538]  Tacitus and Josephus mention that Pallas was the brother of Felix, and the younger Pliny
ridicules the pompous inscription on his tomb.

[539]  A.U.C. 802.

[540]  The Salii, the priests of Mars, twelve in number, were instituted by Numa.  Their dress
was an embroidered tunic, bound with a girdle ornamented with brass.  After their procession,
they had a splendid entertainment, the luxury of which was proverbial.

[541]  Scaliger and Casauhon give Teleggenius as the reading of the best manuscripts.  Whoever
he was, his name seems to have been a bye-word for a notorious fool.

[542]  Titus Livius, the prince of Roman historians, died in the fourth year of the reign of
Tiberius, A.U.C. 771; at which time Claudius was about twenty-seven years old, having been
born A.U.C. 744.

[543]  Asinius Gallus was the son of Asinius Pollio, the famous orator, and had written a hook
comparing his father with Cicero, and giving the former the preference.

