CHAPTER LXX

The reign of Louis XIV. was approaching its conclusion, so that there is now nothing more to
relate but what passed during the last month of his life, and scarcely so much.  These events,
indeed, so curious and so important, are so mixed up with those that immediately followed the
King's death, that they cannot be separated from them.  It will be interesting and is necessary
to describe the projects, the thoughts, the difficulties, the different resolutions, which
occupied the brain of the Prince, who, despite the efforts of Madame de Maintenon and M. du
Maine, was of necessity about to be called to the head of affairs during the minority of the
young King.  This is the place, therefore, to explain all these things, after which we will
resume the narrative of the last month of the King's life, and go on to the events which followed
his death.

But, as I have said, before entering upon this thorny path, it will be as well to make known,
if possible, the chief personage of the story, the impediments interior and exterior in his
path, and all that personally belonged to him.

M. le Duc d'Orleans was, at the most, of mediocre stature, full-bodied without being fat; his
manner and his deportment were easy and very noble; his face was broad and very agreeable,
high in colour; his hair black, and wig the same.  Although he danced very badly, and had but
ill succeeded at the riding-school, he had in his face, in his gestures, in all his movements,
infinite grace, and so natural that it adorned even his most ordinary commonplace actions.
With much ease when nothing constrained him, he was gentle, affable, open, of facile and charming
access; the tone of his voice was agreeable, and he had a surprisingly easy flow of words upon
all subjects which nothing ever disturbed, and which never failed to surprise; his eloquence
was natural and extended even to his most familiar discourse, while it equally entered into
his observations upon the most abstract sciences, on which he talked most perspicuously; the
affairs of government, politics, finance, justice, war, the court, ordinary conversation, the
arts, and mechanics.  He could speak as well too upon history and memoirs, and was well acquainted
with pedigrees.  The personages of former days were familiar to him; and the intrigues of the
ancient courts were to him as those of his own time. To hear him, you would have thought him
a great reader.  Not so.  He skimmed; but his memory was so singular that he never forgot things,
names, or dates, cherishing remembrance of things with precision; and his apprehension was
so good, that in skimming thus it was, with him, precisely as though he had read very laboriously.
He excelled in unpremeditated discourse, which, whether in the shape of repartee or jest, was
always appropriate and vivacious.  He often reproached me, and others more than he, with "not
spoiling him;" but I often gave him praise merited by few, and which belonged to nobody so
justly as to him; it was, that besides having infinite ability and of various kinds, the singular
perspicuity of his mind was joined to so much exactness, that he would never have made a mistake
in anything if he had allowed the first suggestions of his judgment.  He oftentimes took this
my eulogy as a reproach, and he was not always wrong, but it was not the less true. With all
this he had no presumption, no trace of superiority natural or acquired; he reasoned with you
as with his equal, and struck the most able with surprise.  Although he never forgot his own
position, nor allowed others to forget it, he carried no constraint with him, but put everybody
at his ease, and placed himself upon the level of all others.

He had the weakness to believe that he resembled Henry IV.  in everything, and strove to affect
the manners, the gestures, the bearing, of that monarch.  Like Henry IV.  he was naturally
good, humane, compassionate; and, indeed, this man, who has been so cruelly accused of the
blackest and most inhuman crimes, was more opposed to the destruction of others than any one
I have ever known, and had such a singular dislike to causing anybody pain that it may be said,
his gentleness, his humanity, his easiness, had become faults; and I do not hesitate to affirm
that that supreme virtue which teaches us to pardon our enemies he turned into vice, by the
indiscriminate prodigality with which he applied it; thereby causing himself many sad embarrassments
and misfortunes, examples and proofs of which will be seen in the sequel.

I remember that about a year, perhaps, before the death of the King, having gone up early after
dinner into the apartments of Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans at Marly, I found her in bed with
the megrims, and M. d'Orleans alone in the room, seated in an armchair at her pillow. Scarcely
had I sat down than Madame la Duchesse began to talk of some of those execrable imputations
concerning M. d'Orleans unceasingly circulated by Madame de Maintenon and M. du Maine; and
of an incident arising therefrom, in which the Prince and the Cardinal de Rohan had played
a part against M. d'Orleans.  I sympathised with her all the more because the Duke, I knew
not why, had always distinguished and courted those two brothers, and thought he could count
upon them.  "And what will you say of M. d'Orleans," added the Duchesse, "when I tell you that
since he has known this, known it beyond doubt, he treats them exactly the same as before?"

I looked at M. d'Orleans, who had uttered only a few words to confirm the story, as it was
being told, and who was negligently lolling in his chair, and I said to him with warmth:

"Oh, as to that, Monsieur, the truth must be told; since Louis the Debonnaire, never has there
been such a Debonnaire as you."

At these words he rose in his chair, red with anger to the very whites of his eyes, and blurted
out his vexation against me for abusing him, as he pretended, and against Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans for encouraging me and laughing at him.

"Go on," said I, "treat your enemies well, and rail at your friends.  I am delighted to see
you angry.  It is a sign that I have touched the sore point, when you press the finger on it
the patient cries.  I should like to squeeze out all the matter, and after that you would be
quite another man, and differently esteemed."

He grumbled a little more, and then calmed down.  This was one of two occasions only, on which
he was ever really angry with me.

Two or three years after the death of the King, I was chatting in one of the grand rooms of
the Tuileries, where the Council of the Regency was, according to custom, soon to be held,
and M. d'Orleans at the other end was talking to some one in a window recess.  I heard myself
called from mouth to mouth, and was told that M. d'Orleans wished to speak to me. This often
happened before the Council.  I went therefore to the window where he was standing.  I found
a serious bearing, a concentrated manner, an angry face, and was much surprised.

"Monsieur," said he to me at once, "I have a serious complaint against you; you, whom I have
always regarded as my best of friends."

"Against me!  Monsieur!" said I, still more surprised.  "What is the matter, then, may I ask?"

"The matter!" he replied with a mien still more angry; "something you cannot deny; verses you
have made against me."

"I--verses!" was my reply.  "Why, who the devil has been telling you such nonsense?  You have
been acquainted with me nearly forty years, and do you not know, that never in my life have
I been able to make a single verse--much less verses?"

"No, no, by Heaven," replied he, "you cannot deny these;" and forthwith he began to sing to
me a street song in his praise, the chorus of which was: 'Our Regent is debonnaire, la la,
he is debonnaire,' with a burst of laughter.

"What!" said I, "you remember it still!" and smiling, I added also, "since you are revenged
for it, remember it in good earnest."  He kept on laughing a long time before going to the
Council, and could not hinder himself.  I have not been afraid to write this trifle, because
it seems to me that it paints the man.

M. d'Orleans loved liberty, and as much for others as for himself.  He extolled England to
me one day on this account, as a country where there are no banishments, no lettres de cachet,
and where the King may close the door of his palace to anybody, but can keep no one in prison;
and thereupon related to me with enjoyment, that besides the Duchess of Portsmouth, Charles
the Second had many subordinate mistresses; that the Grand Prieur, young and amiable in those
days, driven out of France for some folly, had gone to England to pass his exile and had been
well received by the King.  By way of thanks, he seduced one of those mistresses, by whom the
King was then so smitten, that he sued for mercy, offered money to the Grand Prieur, and undertook
to obtain his reconciliation in France.  The Grand Prieur held firm.  Charles prohibited him
the palace.  He laughed at this, and went every day to the theatre, with his conquest, and
placed himself opposite the King.  At last, Charles, not knowing what to do to deliver himself
from his tormentor, begged our King to recall him, and this was done.  But the Grand Prieur
said he was very comfortable in England and continued his game.  Charles, outraged, confided
to the King (Louis XIV.) the state he was thrown into by the Grand Prieur, and obtained a command
so absolute and so prompt, that his tormentor was afterwards obliged to go back into France.

M. d'Orleans admired this; and I know not if he would not have wished to be the Grand Prieur.
He always related this story with delight.  Thus, of ambition for reigning or governing, he
had none.  If he made a false move in Spain it was because he had been misdirected.  What he
would have liked best would have been to command armies while war lasted, and divert himself
the rest of the time without constraint to himself or to others. He was, in fact, very fit
for this.  With much valour, he had also much foresight, judgment, coolness, and vast capacity.
It may be said that he was captain, engineer, and army purveyor; that he knew the strength
of his troops, the names and the company of the officers, and the most distinguished of each
corps; that he knew how to make himself adored, at the same time keeping up discipline, and
could execute the most difficult things, while unprovided with everything.  Unfortunately there
is another side of this picture, which it will be as well now to describe.

M. d'Orleans, by disposition so adapted to become the honour and the master-piece of an education,
was not fortunate in his teachers.  Saint- Laurent, to whom he was first confided, was, it
is true, the man in all Europe best fitted to act as the instructor of kings, but he died before
his pupil was beyond the birch, and the young Prince, as I have related, fell entirely into
the hands of the Abbe Dubois.  This person has played such an important part in the state since
the death of the King, that it is fit that he should be made known.  The Abbe Dubois was a
little, pitiful, wizened, herring-gutted man, in a flaxen wig, with a weazel's face, brightened
by some intellect.  In familiar terms, he was a regular scamp.  All the vices unceasingly fought
within him for supremacy, so that a continual uproar filled his mind.  Avarice, debauchery,
ambition; were his gods; perfidy, flattery, foot-licking his means of action; complete impiety
was his repose; and he held the opinion as a great principle, that probity and honesty are
chimeras, with which people deck themselves, but which have no existence.  In consequence,
all means were good to him.  He excelled in low intrigues; he lived in them, and could not
do without them; but they always had an aim, and he followed them with a patience terminated
only by success, or by firm conviction that he could not reach what he aimed at, or unless,
as he wandered thus in deep darkness, a glimmer of light came to him from some other cranny.
He passed thus his days in sapping and counter-sapping.  The most impudent deceit had become
natural to him, and was concealed under an air that was simple, upright, sincere, often bashful.
He would have spoken with grace and forcibly, if, fearful of saying more than he wished, he
had not accustomed himself to a fictitious hesitation, a stuttering--which disfigured his speech,
and which, redoubled when important things were in question, became insupportable and sometimes
unintelligible.  He had wit, learning, knowledge of the world; much desire to please and insinuate
himself, but all was spoiled by an odour of falsehood which escaped in spite of him through
every pore of his body--even in the midst of his gaiety, which made whoever beheld it sad.
Wicked besides, with reflection, both by nature and by argument, treacherous and ungrateful,
expert in the blackest villainies, terribly brazen when detected; he desired everything, envied
everything, and wished to seize everything. It was known afterwards, when he no longer could
restrain himself, to what an extent he was selfish, debauched, inconsistent, ignorant of everything,
passionate, headstrong, blasphemous and mad, and to what an extent he publicly despised his
master, the state, and all the world, never hesitating to sacrifice everybody and everything
to his credit, his power, his absolute authority, his greatness, his avarice, his fears, and
his vengeance.

Such was the sage to whom M. le Duc d'Orleans was confided in early youth!

Such a good master did not lose his pains with his new disciple, in whom the excellent principles
of Saint-Laurent had not had time to take deep root, whatever esteem and affection he may have
preserved through life for that worthy man.  I will admit here, with bitterness, for everything
should be sacrificed to the truth, that M. le Duc d'Orleans brought into the world a failing--let
us call things by their names--a weakness, which unceasingly spoiled all his talents, and which
were of marvellous use to his preceptor all his life.  Dubois led him into debauchery, made
him despise all duty and all decency, and persuaded him that he had too much mind to be the
dupe of religion, which he said was a politic invention to frighten ordinary, intellects, and
keep the people in subjection.  He filled him too with his favourite principle, that probity
in man and virtue in woman, are mere chimeras, without existence in anybody except a few poor
slaves of early training.  This was the basis of the good ecclesiatic's doctrines, whence arose
the license of falsehood, deceit, artifice, infidelity, perfidy; in a word, every villainy,
every crime, was turned into policy, capacity, greatness, liberty and depth of intellect, enlightenment,
good conduct, if it could be hidden, and if suspicions and common prejudices could be avoided.

