He had viewed but the soft silken bud, whose deep cup was drunk with dew,--its subtle, spicy
fragrance pervading, lingering after the leaves were drooping and the bloom fled, but its rich,
royal hues were yet to come. In his blind coarse blundering, he had mistaken the bud for the
flower, the portal for the church; he had entered with heedless, profane foot, and blighted
the blossom and rifled the altar. For the leaves had been unclosed, the gates unbarred under
his neglect; and Leslie, with a noble woman's frankness, generosity, and meekness--that true
meekness which oftenest cleaves and melts the ringing metal of a high spirit--Leslie had begun
to love him, to fix her heart upon him, to grow to him--stolid, sardonic statue that he was!--until
that shock exposed his flaws and wrenched her from her hold. Better to be thus rudely dissevered,
perhaps, than to waste her womanliness, puny and pale from its vague bald nourishment, on a
fraud and a farce.

Hector Garret awoke from his delusion, from his scholarly reveries, his active enterprise.
"He that provideth not for his own house is worse than an infidel." So he watched Leslie: he
saw her rise up with her thoughtful face, very individual it appeared now, and go up and down
carrying her baby. He was aware that she was appropriating it as her treasure; that she was
saying to herself some such words--"Silver and gold have I none, but this is my pearl beyond
price; she will be enough for me; she must be so; I will make her so. She and I will waste
no more silly tears on hard, changeable men. They are not like us, little daughter; they pass
us by, or they love us once with fierce desire; and when satiated or balked, they turn to us
again to please their eye, flatter their ear, vary their leisure; to anatomize and torture
like other favourites of an hour. We will have none of them, save to do our duty. We will live
for each other."

Not that she deprived him of his rights as a father; she was too magnanimous to be unjust,
and she would not have balked that puppet, to whose service she consecrated herself, of one
privilege which any pangs of hers could purchase.

She presented their child to him with a serious stateliness, as if it was so very solemn a
ceremony that its performance emancipated her from ordinary emotion; she came and consulted
him on the small questions that concerned its welfare with the same absorbing care. If he came
near her when she bore the child in her arms, she offered it to him immediately: she was righteous
as well as valiant--yes, very valiant. He contemplated her stedfastness with wonder. After
the blow which overcame her, when a compensation was given her--a blessing to atone for the
gall in her cup, she accepted it and cherished it, and set herself to be grateful for it and
worthy of it immediately. The fortitude which, after the involuntary, inevitable rebellion,
would permit no more idle repining, the decent pride that hid its own disease and bore it bravely,
even the sternness that set its teeth against reaction--he recognised them all; it was studying
the reflection of his own lofty features in the fragile, quivering flesh of a girl.

What is often proposed, rarely practised, Leslie did. She changed her ways: with what travail
of spirit, what heart-sickness she alone could tell. It is no common slight or safe influence
that causes a revulsion in the whole bodily system; it is no skin-deep puncture that bleeds
inwardly; it is no easy lesson that the disciple lays to heart; but Leslie surmounted and survived
it. She had escaped her responsibilities, and slumbered at her post. She would do so no longer.
She belonged now, after little Leslie, to her household, and its members might yet be the better
for her, and Hector Garret should respect--not pity her. She vindicated her matronhood suddenly
and straightforwardly, but with a sedateness and firmness that was conclusive of her future
power; she had much to acquire, but she would gain something every day and every hour, until
Otter should own no abler mistress. Then for her child, she would teach herself that she might
instruct her daughter, so that if she proved inquiring and meditative like her father, she
need not soon weary of her simple mother, and turn altogether to a more enlightened and profound
instructor. Surely there was some knowledge that a woman could best store up and dispense,
some gift wherein the vigorous and well-trained man did not bear the universal palm? Leslie
strove to cultivate her talents; for these, in her position, there was scarcely a choice of
fields, but she had eminently the power of observation, and her sharpened motives supplied
the defects of her early education. Leslie became a naturalist--the most original and untrammelled
of naturalists, for she proceeded upon that foundation of anecdotal and experimental acquaintance
with herb and tree, insect, bird, and beast, and even atmospheric phenomena, whose unalloyed
riches are peculiar to rustic and isolated genius.

Hector Garret observed this growing taste, and appreciated it. Leslie had ceased to apologize
for her stupidity, and to be shy of his scrutiny. When he found her procuring and preserving
this or that specimen, or noting down a primitive fact, if he asked an explanation he had one
directly.

"This pale flower, and that with the green flowers and the great leaves, are lady's-smock and
lady's-mantle; they say they are named after the Virgin, but I think Adam must have named them
in the Garden.--Bridget tells me that the Irish believe the fairies sleep in these bells.--This
is the plant of whose root cats are so fond that they burrow about it and nibble it, and as
it does not hurt them, I have dug up a bit for our puss--little Leslie looks after her already.--I
have been writing down the day when the swallows twittered at the window, to compare with their
arrival next summer. Peggy Barbour saw a double nest with one hole last year; it must have
been an old pair and a young maintaining a joint roof-tree.--Yes, of course, these are jay's
feathers."

Another resource which Leslie found within Hector Garret's perception was that of music. She
had been endowed with a flexible, melodious voice, and as soon as she had use for them, she
gathered by magic a host of ditties, blithe or sad, stirring or soothing, from the romantic
fervour of 'Charlie, he's my darling,' to the pathos of 'Drummossie Moor,' or the homely, biting
humour of 'Tibbie Fowler,' to carol to the accompaniment of the ancient spinet, in order to
cheer or lull the child.

Hector Garret would move to his study-window, and open it softly, in the gloaming hour when
the purple sunset was on the sea, and the bats abroad from the old chimneys, to listen to his
wife in the room above singing to her child. He did not hear her music otherwise: if he had
solicited it, she would have complied, with a little surprise, but he did not seek the indulgence.

The alteration in Leslie which matured her unexpectedly from a girl to a woman affected powerfully
both the arbiters of her destiny. Bridget Kennedy, from a tyrant, was fairly transformed into
her warmest and most faithful adherent. There was something high and great in the wild old
woman, that could thus at once confess her error, admit greatness in any form in another, and
succumb to it reverently. Truly, Bridget Kennedy was like fire to the weak and foolish, a scourge
and a grizzly phantom; to the brave and capable, a minister fearless, fond, and untiring to
her last breath.

It was very strange to Hector Garret to be sensible of Bridget's lapse from his side,--to hear
the present mistress, the subdued diligent woman, canonized to the level of the grand, glad
lady of Otter to whom Bridget had been so long fanatically loyal. He said to himself that the
child had helped to effect it, the precious descendant, the doted-on third generation; but
he was uncertain. He himself was so impressed with the patient woman he had formed out of the
lively girl, so tortured by a conviction that he had gagged and fettered her--that her limbs
were cramped and benumbed, her atmosphere oppressive, her life self-denying--that he could
bear it no longer.

"God forgive me, Leslie, for the wrong I have done you!" he confessed one night with a haggard,
remorseful face, when she stood, constrained and pensive, on his joyless hearth.

She looked up quickly, and laughed a dry laugh. "You are dreaming," she replied. "How much
larger Otter is than the Glasgow house! it was a mere cupboard in comparison. How much pleasanter
the fields and hills and sands than the grimy, noisy streets where my head ached and my eyes
were weary. And little Leslie is a thousand times dearer than my own people, or any companions
that I ever possessed. Hush! hush! I hear her cry; don't detain me, unless for anything I can
do for you--because nothing keeps me from Leslie."

The coals of fire were heaped upon his head: there could be no reparation.

Why was Hector Garret not resigned? It was a cruel mistake, but it might have been worse, for
hearts are deceitful, and what is false and baneful is apt to prove an edge-tool. Here was
permanent estrangement, comfortless formality, cold, compulsory esteem; but there was no treachery
in the household, no malignant hate, no base revenge.

But Hector Garret would not rest: he had far less or far more energy than his wife; he walked
his lands a moody, harassed man. The turmoil and distraction of his youth seemed recalled;
he lost his equanimity; his regular habits faded from him. Leslie could no longer count on
his prolonged absence, his short stated visits; he would be with her at any time within doors
or without--to exchange a word or look, and go as he came, to return as unaccountably and inconsistently.
It vexed Leslie; she tried not to see it; it made her curious, anxious; and what had she to
do with Hector Garret's flushed cheek and shining eye? Some anniversary, some combination of
present associations and past recollections--a tendency to fly from himself, besetting at times
the most self-controlled--might have caused this change in his appearance. Ah! better twist
and untwist the rings of little Leslie's fair hair, and dress and undress her as she had done
her doll; better examine the shell cracked by the yellow-hammer, and count the spots on the
broad, brown leaf of the plane, than perplex herself with so uncongenial a difficulty. But
the difficulty pursued her nevertheless, and baffled and bewitched her as it has done wiser people.

The master and mistress of Otter were spectators of the harvest home, the plentiful feast,
the merry dance in the spacious barn where their share of the fruits of the earth was about
to be garnered. Leslie stood in her complimentary, gay gala ribbons, with her fingers meeting
upon her wedding-ring, looking composedly and with interest on the buxom women and stalwart
men, the loving lads and lasses, the cordial husbands and wives. Hector Garret, however, scarcely
tarried to reply to his health and prosperity drunk in a flowing bumper, but broke from the
scene as if its good was his evil, its blessing his curse.

In the parish church where Leslie had exhibited her bridal finery she now listened to the clergyman,
and bent her head in penitence and worship, and was disturbed by Hector Garret's gesture of
restlessness and attitude of care.

When the new moon was rising in the sky, Leslie would bid the little one look up and clap her
hands, while Hector paced up and down unquiet and dissatisfied. Then she would carry the child
off to her cradle pillow, and coming back would stand and look at the moon, while he was close
to her, murmuring "Leslie! Leslie!" But she would turn upon him pale and cold as the moon above
her, and would address him, "See, yonder is a ship doubling Earlscraig point and steering into
the Otter sea."

VI.--THE STORM.

The October winds, tossing the late oats and the frosted heather, were lashing the Otter sea
into heaving waves and flakes of foam. That western sea has its annals and its trophies, as
well as den and moor. Edward Bruce crossed it to give to Ireland as dauntless a king as he
whom a woman crowned, and who found a nameless grave; and there, in the glassy calm of a summer
night, the vessel, with its passengers lulled in fatal security and slumber, sank like lead,
fathoms beyond the aid of modern science with its myriads of inventions and its hardy self-confidence.

The few fishers of Otter were exposed to the swell rolling from New England and Labrador to
Galloway and Argyle; many a lamp stood day and night in cottage windows, many an anxious woman
forsook her brood, and under her sheltering plaid ran here and there, dizzy and desperate,
to beg for counsel, and for tidings of the husband and father whose boat was due, and who was
still exposed to the pitiless fury of the tempest.

Hector Garret was early summoned to marshal his men in order to succour those who were within
his reach; to think, plan, and act to the last for those who were amissing, but might yet be
rescued. He had been upon the beach all day; he had been handling rope and line; he had been
ready at any moment to launch his own boat among the breakers.

Leslie, too, had been abroad. She had been in several houses, especially in those whose young
children were of the same age as Leslie. In all she met the same abandonment; whether the heads
of the families chanced to be young or old, worthy or unworthy, mattered not; they were now
the sole thought, the object of racking anxiety, lamented over beforehand with sore lamentation.
If they were safe, all was well; if they were lost, these wives and mothers were bereaved indeed.
The Sabine women did not cling to their rough masters with more touching fidelity. The men
were in trouble--their imprudence, their intemperance, their violence were blotted out.

Leslie went home in disturbance and pain. She, too, placed a light in her window; she, too,
left her infant untended, and strained her eyes to pierce the storm. Hector Garret must have
descried her figure as he approached the house, for he came straight to her room, and stood
a moment with his dripping clothes and a glow on his face.

"Don't go, Leslie; I'll be back presently."

She put a restraint upon herself, and became busied with the refreshments laid out for him.
He came in immediately, and advanced towards her with the same eager phrase, "Don't go, Leslie,"
and he grasped her gown lightly. She sat down while he ate and drank.

"I'll have a cup of tea, Leslie; pour me out my tea as you used to do." She had always poured
out tea for him, but not always with him close by, and his detaining hand upon her dress.

"This is like old times. They were very foolish--those old times, but they have their sweetness
to look back upon them."

She interrupted him--"They are all safe, are they not?"

"Every man of them, thank God."

He was spent with his exertions; he was fevered and incoherent; she let him speak on, detailing
the minutest particulars. She even said with animation, and the tears in her eyes--

"Their protector and deliverer! God will bless you for this, Hector Garret."

He bent his head, but he held out his arms: "Will you bless me, Leslie?"

His voice was thick and hoarse; it petrified her, so still was she--so dumb; and at that moment
the knocker sounded, and importunate voices were demanding the Laird of Otter.

He obeyed the summons, spoke with his servants a little time, and returned to find Leslie in
the same arrested posture, with the same blanched face. He had resumed his seaman's coat, and
carried his cap in his hand. He was calm now, and smiling, but with a face wan and shadowed
with an inexpressible cloud.

"It may not be, Leslie," he said, soft and low; "Nigel Boswell's boat is in sight, struggling
to make Earlscraig; he was always rash and unskilled, though seaward born and bred. If he is
not forestalled, his boat will be bottom upmost, or crushed like glass within the hour. I trust
I will save him; but if there be peril and death in my path, then listen to what I say, and
remember it. Whatever has gone before, at this moment I am yours; you may doubt it, deny it--I
swear it, Leslie. Despise me, reject me if you will; I cannot perish misinterpreted and misjudged.
I loved Alice Boswell. My love is ashes with its object. I did not love you once; I love you
now. I love a living woman truer, higher, holier than the dead; and for my love's sake, not
for my vows--the first for love, if it be the last."

He had her in his arms; his lingering kisses were on her eyes, her hair, her hands. He was
gone, and still she remained rooted to the ground. Was it amazement, anger, terror?--or was
it a wild throb of exultation for that, the real moment of their union? or because she had
won him, and was his who had slighted her, sinned against her--but who was still Hector Garret,
manly, wise, and noble--the hero of her girlhood.

She was roused reluctantly by the entrance of Bridget Kennedy, shaking in every limb.

"Madam, why did you let Master Hector go?--he has had the look of a doomed man this many a
day. It is thus that men are called, as plain as when the Banshee cries. Madam, say your prayers
for Master Hector while he is still in life."

"I must go to him, Bridget; I must follow him. Don't try to keep me. He is my husband, too.
The poor women were crowding on the beach this morning. Let me go!"

She understood that he was exposing himself for another--that his life hung on the turning
of a straw. She ran upstairs, but she did not seek her child, and when she descended, Bridget
had still to fetch her mantle and bonnet. The old woman did not seek to detain her, but ejaculated
through her chattering teeth, as she peered out after her and wrung her hands, "She will bring
the Master back, if anything can; nought will harm her. I, poor miserable wretch, would but
clog her swiftness. Ay, he will hearken to her voice; he has been waiting for the sound weeks
and months. Who would have said that Master Hector, like Samson, would twice be given a prey
to a woman! He will hear her above the winds and waves; body or soul, he will obey her, as
he did Alice Boswell twenty years ago in fire and ruin."

Leslie hurried on in the darkness, her little feet tripping, her slight form borne back by
the blast. Not thus had she wandered on those sunny, summer days when she first knew Otter;
but there was that within, in the midst of her distress, that she would not have resigned for
that light life twice over.

She reached the beach; the roar of the surf and the shriek of the wind were in her ears, but
no human presence was visible. There flashed back upon her the vision of her hopelessness and
helplessness on such another blustering, raging night--but the recollection brought no comfort.
She paused in dismay, with nothing but the mist and the driving rain before her. Stay! obscurely,
and at intervals, she caught sight of a light, now borne on the crest of these giant waves,
now sunk and lost. Hark! a pistol-shot! that must be Boswell's appeal for aid; and yonder lay
Earlscraig--yonder also was Hector toiling to rescue his ancient friend and persistent foe.
She should be there too. At Earlscraig their destiny would be wrought out.

Leslie sped along in the tumult of earth and sky; the road was more than a mile, and at such
a season and in such weather very toilsome and dangerous--but what deeds have not tender women
achieved, strung by love, or hate!

When Leslie gained the promontory, she found the old house deserted--the few servants were
on the shore, aiding or watching Hector Garret and his men in their efforts to save the last
of his line, cast away within the shadow of his own rocks and towers.

Leslie shrank from descending among the spectators; she remained spent and breathless, but
resolute still, where she could spy the first wayfarer, hear the first shout of triumph, and
steal away in the darkness, fleeing home unmarked and undetained.

It was the first occasion on which she had been close to Earlscraig. The situation, at all
times exposed, was now utterly forlorn. The spray was rising over the land, the waves were
sapping its old foundation, the weird winds were tearing at the coping of the shattered house;
and on the side where Alice Boswell's turret had stood, stones were rumbling, and wild weeds
streaming. The scene was very dismal and eerie, but Leslie did not shudder or faint; her senses
were bent on one aim, she was impervious to all else. She sank down in a kneeling position,
staring with unwinking eyes, praying with her whole heart in an agony. The light which had
beguiled her, passed beyond her sight after tossing for some time to and fro. She could not
regain it, she could only continue ready to seize the first signal of bliss, or woe.

It did not come. The storm raged more madly; the desolation grew more appalling; Leslie's brain
began to whirl; the solitude was rife with shapes and voices.

Above all stood fair Alice Boswell, wreathed in white flames--from the wavering cloudy mass
of forms the gallant exile plunged anew into the flood, now seething and rushing to meet its prey.

"Oh woman--Alice Boswell--I did not steal your lover! you kept him from me long after God and
man had given him to me. There are no vows and caresses in the grave. We have had but one meeting
and parting; but one! Oh, stranger, he is spending his life for her brother, as you were ready
to fling down yours for her. Will none of you be appeased? Then take us both; in mercy leave
not the other! In death let us not be divided!"

The pang was over; Leslie passed into insensibility. When she recovered herself, the spectres
of that horrible dream still flitted around her, for did she not distinguish through the surge
and the blast Hector Garret's foot speeding to receive his doom?

But "Leslie," not "Alice," was his cry. Beneath the very arches of Earlscraig, where fair Alice
Boswell, her rich hair decked for one, her bright eyes sparkling for another, her sandal buckled
for a third, had stood, and waved to him her hand--"Leslie! Leslie!" was his cry, uttered with
such aching longing, such utter despair. It was the wail of no mocking ghost, but the human
cry of a breaking heart.

Leslie's tongue clove to the roof of her mouth; but there was no need of speech to indicate
to him his weak, fluttering treasure. Found once more! Found for ever! raised and borne away
swiftly and securely. No word of explanation, no reproach for folly and desperation, no recital
of his labours, no information regarding others, but--strange from Hector Garret's stern lips,
and sweet as strange--murmurs of fondness and devotion: "Sweet Leslie! mine only--mine always!"
Scoutings at weariness, cheery reckonings of their way, his heart beating against hers, her
cheek to his; and it was only when Bridget Kennedy opened the door, and he asked her whether
she had yet a chamber for this truant, that Leslie was aware how well Hector Garret had performed
his part, and how many guests the hospitable walls of Otter sheltered that eventful night.

Bridget was solemnly praising heaven, whose arm had been about them, and restored them both
in the flower of their days, to Otter, and to their bairn.

"We have come back for more than Otter and the bairn, Leslie. Bridget and all the men of Ayr
could not have held her here, my faithful wife that needs must be my love, she has proved herself
so true!"

He was throwing off her drenched cloak, and chafing her cold hands. One of them was clenched
on its contents. He opened the stiffened finger, and found a lock of hair.

"It was all belonging to you that I had, Hector," she whispered; "I took it long ago, with
your knowledge but without your consent. I would not look at it, or touch it; I kept it for
little Leslie. But you said that you were mine, and it was something of yours to hold; you
were mine, and it was part of you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Better for Scotland that weans greet than bearded men," averred the Lord of Glammis; but he
did not say, better for the men, or better for those who plight hand and heart with them, that
the keen, clear eye melt not, either with ruth or tenderness. Nay, the plants of household
faith and love, scathed by some lightning flash, pinched by some poverty of soil, will lift
their heads and thrive apace when once they have been watered with this heavenly rain--and
like the tree of the Psalmist growing by the river, will flourish pleasantly, and bear much
goodly fruit thenceforth, and fade not at all, but instead, be transplanted into "the land
that is far away."

THE OLD YEOMANRY WEEKS.

I.--THE YEOMEN'S ADVENT.--PRIORTON SPRUCES ITSELF UP.

Time changes both defences and amusements. Now we have volunteer reviews in place of old yeomanry
weeks. But it is worth while looking back on what was so hearty, quaint, humorous, and stirring
in times bygone.

Beasts as well as men had their day in the past. The tramp of horses, their brisk neigh, and
the flourish of their long tails added to the general attraction. The coats of the Yeomen,
too, were of the most sanguinary red. And there were other charms. The calling out of the troop
for ten days involved a muster from all the county for twelve or fifteen miles round. There
was thus an inroad of country friends. The genial system of billeting was in vogue, too, so
that every bed was full. And allies and satellites called in, in happy succession, to share
the bustle and glee. A company of respectable theatrical stars, patronized both by officers
and privates, visited the town; and a wonderfully brilliant yeomanry ball, attended alike by
gentle and simple, wound up the successful interlude in ordinary life.

The little town of Priorton spruced itself up for its yeomanry weeks, and was all agog, as
it never was at any other time. The campaign commenced by the arrival on horseback of a host
of country gentlemen and farmers, in plain clothes as yet. But they carried at their saddle-bows,
packages containing their cherished ensigns and symbols--in their case the very glory of the
affair. Along with these in many cases came judicious presents of poultry and game.

There were such hand-shakings in the usually quiet streets, such groomings of horses at stables
behind old-fashioned little taverns, such pipe-claying of belts and polishing of helmets, and,
above all, such joyous anticipatory parties in private houses!

The season was always the height of the summer, not perhaps in every respect the best for such
a muster. Stout Yeomen had even been known to faint while at drill; the combined influences
of the fatigue, the heat, and last night's hilarity being too much for them. But farmers and
farming lairds could well quit their lands unless in the beginning of July, when the June hoeing
of turnips and beans had been got through, the first grass cut, and while there was still a
good three weeks before barley-harvest. Trees were then dusky in their green, and gooseberries
and currants tinted the Priorton gardens with rich amber and crimson. Roses redder than the
yeomen's coats were in full flower for every waistcoat and waistband. The streets and roads
were dusty, under blue skies or black thunderclouds; but the meadows were comparatively cool
and fresh, and now white with the summer snow of daisies. The bustle of the Yeomen, like the
trillings of wandering musicians, was heard only in the brooding heat of summer afternoons,
or the rosy flush of summer sunset, the prime of the year lending a crowning charm to their advent.

It was a delightful start, that first réveillée of the bugle at five of the clock on a July
morning. Youngsters whom nought else could have tempted out of bed so early darted up at the
summons. They envied papas and uncles, brothers and cousins in the ranks of the Yeomen. Comely
blooming young faces joined the watch at the windows. Cloaks were loosely cast about rounded
shoulders, and caps were hastily snatched up to hide dishevelled hair; while little bare pink
feet would sometimes show themselves. But the young ladies only peeped out behind the window
curtains, in the background of the noisy demonstrative band of youngsters.

Distant voices, excited and impatient, were soon heard; then the jingle of spurs, and the clank
of swords, as half-bashful Yeomen descended the stairs for their début in the street. At last
appeared important familiar persons, now strikingly transformed by their martial dress, but
terribly uncomfortable and self-conscious.

The horses were led to the doors, and to the women who stayed at home the mounts were the exquisitely
comic incidents of the day. The return of the members of the troop, now broken to their work,
and detached into groups of threes and fours, and chatting and laughing at their ease, was
quite tame in comparison. The country gentlemen and farmers were, of course, generally well
used to the saddle, and could get upon their Bucephaluses without difficulty, and ride cavalierly,
or prick briskly out of sight, as they were in good time or too late. But here and there a
solicitor or banker, or wealthy shopkeeper, ambitious of being among the Yeomen, would meet
with unhappy enough adventures. He might be seen issuing from his doorway with pretended unconcern,
but with anxious clearings of the throat and ominously long breaths, while his nag, strange
to him as John Gilpin's, was brought up to the mounting-place. The worthy man would plant his
foot in the stirrup next him, but, not throwing himself round decidedly enough, the horse would
swerve and rear, while he looked on beseechingly and helpless. Then he would try the other
side, still failing to swing himself into the saddle. He would grow more and more flustered.
His wife, in her clean muslin cap and spotless calico wrapper, with her little lads and lasses--one,
two, three--would then step out on the pavement to give cautious advice. The would-be Yeoman
would become more and more nervous, while his comrades rode by with jeering glances, and the
passengers stood still. Little boys would begin to whoop and hurrah, and a crowd, even at this
early hour, would gather round to enjoy the experiment. "Hey, Nancy! get me a kitchen chair,"
the town-bred Yeoman at last would say in desperation to his elderly commiserating maid-servant
in the distance; and from that steady halfway stand he would climb into the saddle with a groan,
settle himself sack fashion, and, working the bridle laboriously with his arms, trot off, to
return very saddle-sick.

Then some stubborn young fellow, possessed with the notion of showing off a dashing horse,
would insist on riding a vicious, almost dangerous animal, which would on no account endure
the sight of his flaming regimentals on the occasions of his mountings and dismountings. Once
in the saddle, he would master it thoroughly, and pay it back in kind with whip and spur, compelling
the furious beast to face a whole line of red coats, and wheel, march, charge, and halt, with
perfect correctness. But the horse would have its moment of revenge as its rider leapt to and
from the saddle. If it encountered the scarlet and the glitter of brass and steel, at that
instant it would get quite wild, paw the air, fling out its hoofs, snort and dart off wildly,
to the danger of its own and its master's life. But the young soldier would not be beat. Day
after day the contest would be renewed. At length he would resort to a compromise, and his
groom would bring out the animal with its head ignominiously muffled in a sack; and now the
Yeoman would mount with comparative safety.

But the bugle is sounding to drill in the early summer morning. Tra-li-la! the clear music
suits with the songs of the birds and the dew on the grass. The last lagging Yeoman is off,
gone to receive a public reprimand from his strict commanding officer, but sure to have the
affront rubbed out next morning by a similar fault, and a similar experience, on the part of
a comrade.

The drill ends at the common breakfast hour, when the Yeoman may be supposed to return and
feast sumptuously. Then "civil" work commences. Yeomen who had offices or shops, attended them
with slight relics of their uniform. A stranger might have been pardoned had he imagined an
invasion was daily expected, or that an intestine war was on the point of breaking out. In
consideration of the hot weather, undress uniform was permitted on all save field days, and
thus the toiling Yeomen enjoyed a little cool in their white ducks and jackets, though the
red mark, the helmet's line, was still to be traced on their sun-browned foreheads.

There was an afternoon's drill. It was a little of a fag, being in fact rather like a dish
heated up a second time, as a duty twice done mostly always is. But the evening was particularly
gay. Then the Yeomen were supposed to be enjoying themselves. Pleasant, if they had always
enjoyed themselves in an innocent fashion. That many of them did so, it is only charitable
to believe. And while the fast and foolish, the gross and wicked were swilling and roystering
in evil localities, the generous, manly, gentle souls gratified the matrons with whom they
were billeted by walking with them and their daughters through the streets, or into the nearest
meadow; or perhaps they treated them to the play.

I have only heard of those days. But I should have liked to have seen the bluff kind faces
above the stiff stocks and scarlet coats, and the joyous smiles which shone upon them. I should
have liked to have heard the quiet town ringing with such blithe laughter. Little jokes would
cause the people to laugh, as little accidents would cause them to shake their heads. Sandy
Hope's horse, for instance, lost a shoe while at the gallop, stumbled, and threw its rider,
dislocating his shoulder, and breaking his arm. What a sensation the news created! It could
scarcely have been greater even though Sandy's brains had been dashed out. Not only Sandy himself,
but Sandy's kindred to the remotest degree, were deeply commiserated. The commanding officer
sent his compliments every morning with inquiries after him. The troop doctor was besieged
by anxious acquaintances. Sandy's comrades never ceased calling upon him, and sat for hours
drinking beer at his open window. Delicious messes and refreshing drinks a thousand times better
than beer, were sent to Sandy. Then the nosegays, the books he got! Sandy received a perfect
ovation. It was even proposed that the ball should be put off because Sandy was lying in pain;
and it was certain that no fewer than three reputed sweethearts of Sandy's stayed at home on
the ball night. Yet the stupid fellow was so slightly hurt, that within the fortnight he was
walking the streets of Priorton more briskly than ever!

Priorton was kindly in its gaiety, and each had an interest in the other. I should have liked
to have known the old town when it was thus given up for ten days, half to military exercises,
half to fraternity and feasting. I should have been sorry when the feasting was intemperate,
but I would no more have condemned the general feasting because of that circumstance, than
I would condemn the gift of speech because some of us are so left to ourselves as to tell lies
or say bad words.

II.--A MATCH-MAKER'S SCHEME.

It was a well-known and accredited fact that in consequence of these festivities of the Yeomen
more matches were made up in this brief interval than during any other period of the year.
Match-making individuals seriously counted on the yeomanry weeks; and probably far-seeing young
ladies had fitting matches in their eye, as well as the fireworks and the introductory gaiety,
when they came in troops to Priorton to entertain the lucky Yeomen.

"My dear," said Mrs. Spottiswoode, the wife of the chief magistrate, who was likewise banker
of Priorton, to her spouse, "your cousin, Bourhope, has asked his billet with us: I must have
my sister Corrie in to meet him."

Mrs. Spottiswoode was a showy, smart, good-humoured woman, but not over-scrupulous. She was
very ready at adapting herself to circumstances, even when the circumstances were against her.
For that reason she was considered very clever as well as very affable, among the matrons of
Priorton. Mr. Spottiswoode was "slow and sure:" it was because of the happy alliance of these
qualities in him that the people of Priorton had elected him chief magistrate.

"My dear," deliberately observed long, lanky Mr. Spottiswoode, "would it not be rather barefaced
to have Bourhope and Corrie here together?"

"Oh, I'll take care of that," answered the lady, with a laugh and a toss of her ribbons; "I
shall have some other girl of my acquaintance to bear Corrie company;--some worthy, out-of-the-way
girl, to whom the visit will be like entering another world," continued Mrs. Spottiswoode,
with a twinkle of her black eyes. "What do you think of Corrie and my cousin Chrissy Hunter,
of Blackfaulds? The Hunters have had such a deal of distress, and so much fighting with embarrassment--though
I believe they are getting clearer now--that the poor lassie has had no amusement but her books,
and has seen absolutely nothing."

Mr. Spottiswoode had no inclination to contradict his wife for contradiction's sake, and as
he could rely on her prudence as on her other good qualities, he said, "Well, Agnes, I have
no objection; Hunter of Blackfaulds is an honest man though he is poor, and he is righting
himself now."

The invitations were dispatched, and accepted gratefully. The guests arrived before Bourhope
occupied his quarters; ostensibly they came so soon to prepare for him. Corrie had nothing
Roman about her except her name, Cornelia. She was a tall, well-made, fair-faced, serene beauty;
the sole remaining maiden daughter of a Scotchman who had returned from the Indies with a fortune,
as so many returned then. He had already endowed Mrs. Spottiswoode with a handsome "tocher,"
and since his marriage had settled within five miles of Priorton. Chrissy, again, was one of
a large, struggling family; a small girl, a very little crooked in figure, and with irregular
features, and a brown complexion. If she had not possessed a bright, intelligent expression,
she would certainly have been plain--as indeed she was to those who did not heed expression.
It was a delightful chance to Chrissy, this brief transplanting into the flourishing, cheerful
town-house, amid the glowing gaiety of the yeomanry weeks. Accordingly she was constantly engaged
in checking off every little detail on the finger-points of her active mind, in order that
she might be able to describe them to her secluded sisters and her sick mother at home. She
was determined not to miss one item of interest; never to sleep-in so as to lose the mount;
never to stray in her walks and fail to be in the house for the return of the afternoon drill.
She would pace the meadows among the gay promenaders, even when the evening was cloudy, and
would not care though she walked alone. She would enjoy the play when Mrs. Spottiswoode chose
to take her, and not even object to a squeeze in the box. The squeeze was really part of the
fun! But she did not care to have her attention distracted from the stage, even by the proffers
of fruit from the Yeomen. As to the ball, she did not allow herself to think much of that.
Who would ever have dreamt of Chrissy figuring at a fine yeomanry ball! She would not trouble
herself because she wore an old worked white frock of her mother's, taken up by tucks to suit
her, and yellowed by frequent washing and long keeping. She would not fret because she could
not spend money upon a hair-dresser. She must dress her own hair--which was scanty, like every
other outward adornment of hers. This was little matter, she reflected, for it would not dress
under the most skilful artist into those enormous bows on the crown of the head which everybody
then wore--it would only go into comb-curls like little hair turrets on each side of her round,
full forehead, which was by no means scanty. She had no ornaments in the way of jewellery,
save a coral necklace; while Corrie had a set of amethysts--real amethysts--ear-rings, brooch,
and necklace, and a gold cross and a gold watch, which she rarely wound up, and which was therefore,
as Chrissy said, "a dead-alive affair." But Corrie was a beauty and an heiress, and ornaments
became her person and position; while on Chrissy, as she herself admitted with great good sense,
they would only have been thrown away. And what did Chrissy care for her appearance so long
as her dress was modest and neat? She could walk about and listen to the ravishing music, and
study the characters she saw, from Corrie up to the Countess, wife of the one earl who came
to Priorton, and who was Colonel of the yeomanry. The day or two before the Yeomanry arrived
was spent by the two girls in walking about, shopping and making calls. Corrie, though a beauty,
proved herself a very dull companion for another girl to walk with. Very pretty to look at
was Corrie in a fair, still, swan-like style of beauty; and she had a great many pretty dresses,
over which she became a little more animated when Chrissy, as a last resource and for their
relief, would ask her to turn them over and show them again. Corrie, of course, never dreamt
of offering poor Chrissy a loan of any of those worked pelerines or aprons, which would have
fitted either equally well. But Chrissy did not want them, and she got a use out of them as
they were brought out one by one and spread before her. Ere the Yeomanry came, Chrissy knew
the stock by heart, and could have drawn them, and cut out patterns and shapes of them, and
probably did so, the little jade, when she got home.

Bourhope came with his fellows, and was more specially introduced to Corrie and Chrissy. He
had had some general acquaintance with both of them before. He gallantly expressed his pleasure
at the prospect of having their society during his stay at Priorton. He was a farmer whose
father had made money at war prices. He had bought his own farm, and thus constituted his son
a small laird. He had an independent bearing, as well as an independent portion of the world's
goods; he was really a manly fellow in his brown, ruddy, curly, strapping comeliness. But better
still, Bourhope was an intelligent fellow, who read other things than the newspapers, and relished
them. He was a little conceited, no doubt, in consequence of comparing himself with others,
but he had a good heart. Corrie and Chrissy both regarded him with scarcely concealed interest
and admiration. Chrissy wished that the lads at home would grow up to be as comely and manly;
Corrie made up her mind to have just such a husband as Bourhope.

It was evident the very first night that Bourhope was taken with Corrie. He stared and stared
at her, admiring her waxen complexion, the bend of her white throat, and the slope of her white
shoulders; and even changed his seat at one time, as it seemed, in order to see her better.
He quickly claimed her as his partner at loo, and engaged her to walk out with him to hear
the band practising next evening. Chrissy thought it all very natural, and all the more enjoyable.
But she caught herself fancying Bourhope and Corrie married, and rebuked herself for carrying
her speculations so far. Only she could not help thinking how Bourhope would weary after the
marriage--say when there was a snow-storm, or a three days' fall of rain at the farmhouse.
But that was Bourhope's affair; if he was pleased, what business was it of hers? Bourhope had
this in common with Chrissy: he could entertain himself.

During the first three days of the week, Bourhope was zealous in looking at, and attaching
himself to, Corrie. But a sharp observer might have remarked that after that he flagged a little,
taking more as a matter of course and politeness the association he had established between
her and him at tea, loo, and the evening promenade. He would even stifle a yawn while in Corrie's
company, though he was a mettlesome and not a listless fellow. But that was only like men,
to prize less what they had coveted when it was half won.

So for a short time matters stood. Corrie, fair and swan-like, Bourhope reasonably impressionable,
Mr. and Mrs. Spottiswoode decidedly favourable, Chrissy Hunter harmless, if not even helpful.
Mrs. Spottiswoode knew that those who dally with a suggestion are in great danger of acting
on it, and had very little doubt that the next ten days' work, with the crowning performance
of the ball, would issue in deciding the desirable match between Bourhope and Corrie.

III.--A MORNING MEETING AND AN EVENING'S READING.

At this juncture it struck Bourhope, riding home from the morning drill, to ask himself what
could possibly take Chrissy Hunter out so early every morning. He had already seen her once
or twice, keeping out of the way of him and his companions, and returning again from the opposite
end of Priorton, which was flanked by the doctor's house. Corrie, he noticed, was never with
her. Indeed, Bourhope had a strong suspicion that Corrie retreated to her pillow again after
showing him her lovely face--lovely even in the pink curl-papers. But Chrissy certainly dressed
immediately, and took a morning walk, by which her complexion at least did not profit. Not
being a very strong little woman, her brown face was apt to look jaded and streaky, when Bourhope,
resting from the fatigues of his drill, lounged with the girls in the early forenoon in Mrs.
Spottiswoode's drawing-room. So it was worth while, he thought, to spur up to Chrissy, and
inquire what took her abroad at such an untimely hour.

When Bourhope caught a nearer glimpse of Chrissy he was rather dismayed to see that she had
been crying. Bourhope hated to see girls crying, particularly girls like Chrissy, to whom it
was not becoming. He had no particular fancy for Cinderellas or other beggar-maids. He would
have hated to find that his kinsfolk and friendly host and hostess, for whom he had a considerable
regard, were mean enough and base enough to maltreat a poor little guest of their own invitation.
Notwithstanding these demurs, Tom Spottiswoode of Bourhope rode so fast up to Chrissy as to
cause her to give a violent start when she turned.

"Hallo! Do you go to market, Miss Chrissy? or what on earth takes you out in the town before
the shutters are down?" pointing with his sheathed sword to a closed shop.

Chrissy was taken aback, and there was something slightly hysterical in her laugh, but she
answered frankly enough, "I go to Dr. Stark's, Mr. Spottiswoode. Dr. Stark attends my mother,
and is at Blackfaulds every day. I wait in his laboratory till he comes there before setting
out; he goes his rounds early, you know. He lets me know how mother was yesterday, and as he
is a kind man, he carries our letters,--Maggie and Arabella and I are great writers, and postage
comes to be expensive--a great deal too expensive for us at Blackfaulds; but the doctor is
a kind man, and he 'favours' our letters. And Mr. Spottiswoode," she said, warming with her
subject and impelled to a bit of confidence, "do you know, Dr. Stark thinks my mother will
be about again in a few months. You are aware her knee-joint has been affected. We were even
afraid she would never put down her foot again. It would have been a dreadful trial for all
of us." Chrissy spoke simply, in a rather moved voice.

Bourhope was slightly moved, too. He had never heard much about Mrs. Hunter, of Blackfaulds,
except that she was a woman who had been long ailing; and also occasional remarks about the
consequences of her being lost or spared to her family.

Chrissy was grateful for his evident sympathy, and gratified by it; but, as if half ashamed
of having elicited it, she at once began to prattle to him on other subjects. Bourhope had
leapt from his horse, and was doing Chrissy the honour of walking at her side, his beast's
bridle over his arm, and his spurs ringing on the pavement. A sparkling prattle that was of
Chrissy's about the fine morning, the town, and the yeomanry--few topics, but well handled
and brilliantly illustrated. Bourhope had dared to confess to himself how sorry he was when
he reached Mr. Spottiswoode's door.

Next morning Bourhope detached himself from his comrades when he approached the town, and looked
narrowly for Chrissy. It would be but civil to inquire for poor Mrs. Hunter. So bent was he
on being thus civil, that though Chrissy was far in advance, he knew her by the pink gingham
trimming of her morning bonnet, fluttering like rose-leaves in the morning sun. He came up
to her, and politely asked after her mother. Chrissy was a little confused, but she answered
pleasantly enough. She was not nearly so talkative, however, as on the preceding morning, though
Bourhope made witty comments on the letter she held in her hand, and pertinaciously insisted
on her telling him whether she mentioned him in her return letters! He reminded her that they
were cousins in a way. This was the first time Chrissy had known of any one hunting up a relationship
with her; and though pleased in her humility--Chrissy was no fool in that humility of hers--Bourhope,
she knew, was destined for her cousin Corrie. He was out of Corrie's way just now, and was
only courteous and cordial to her as living for a time under the same roof. She liked the ruddy,
curly, independent, clever fellow of a farmer laird, who, out of the riches of his kindness,
could be courteous and cordial to a poor plain girl. Bourhope could never overtake Chrissy
coming from Dr. Stark's again. He spied and peeped and threw out hints, and hurried or loitered
on the way to no purpose. Chrissy took care that people should not notice the fact of her being
escorted home in the early morning by Bourhope.

A chance conversation between Mrs. Spottiswoode and Corrie was overheard one day by Bourhope,
when they imagined him deep in "Blackwood;" for it was the days of the "Noctes." Mr. Hunter,
of Redcraigs, Corrie's father, had not been well one day, and a message had been sent to that
effect to her. But Corrie was philosophic, and not unduly alarmed. "Papa makes such a work
about himself," she said candidly to Mrs. Spottiswoode. "Very likely he has only taken lobster
at supper, or his Jamaica rum has not agreed with him, and he is bilious this morning. I think
I will send out a box of colocynth, and a bit of nice tender veal, to put him in good humour
again. You know, Agnes, if I were to drive out, I would not get back in time for the evening
walk in the meadows. Besides, I was to see Miss Aikin about the change in the running on of
my frills. It would overturn all my plans to go, and my head gets so hot, and I look so blowsy,
when my plans are disarranged," Corrie concluded, almost piteously.

"Yes, but Corrie," hesitated Mrs. Spottiswoode, "you know Dr. Stark is not easy about papa
just now. I think I had better go out myself. It is unlucky that Spottiswoode is to have several
other yeomen who do business at the Bank, at dinner to-day with Bourhope; but I dare say Mary
will manage that, as Chrissy will mix the pudding for her. So I will go myself to Redcraigs;
all things considered, it would be a pity for you not to be in your best looks----"

Bourhope at this point fell into a fit of coughing, and lost the rest of the dialogue; but
perhaps his occasional snort of disapprobation was called forth as much by this interlude as
by the audacious judgments of the Shepherd and Tickler.

The day unluckily turned out very rainy, and the drill was gone through in a dense white mist,
which caused every horse to loom large as an elephant, and every rider to look a Gog or Magog.
The young ladies, so fond of a change of costume at this time in Priorton, could do no shopping;
the walk in the meadows at sunset with the lounging yeomen had to be given up. The green meadows
were not inviting, the grass was dripping, the flowers closed and heavy, the river red and
drumly. All was disappointing; for the meadows were beautiful at this season with their summer
snow of daisies--not dead-white snow either, for it was broken by patches of yellow buttercups,
crow's-foot, lady's-finger, and vetch, and by the crimson clover flowers and the rusty red
of sorrel, and the black pert heads of the nib-wort plaintain, whose black upon the white of
ox-eye daisies has the rich tone of ermine.

Instead of walks, there were gatherings round shining tables; and bottles and glasses clinked
cheerily in many a parlour. But Mr. Spottiswoode was sober by inclination. The impressiveness
of office, which had quite the contrary effect on many provosts of his era, only added to his
characteristic caution. The yeomen, too, knew well where hilarity ended and excess began. So
there was little fear of excess in Mr. Spottiswoode's house. Mrs. Spottiswoode, a genius in
her own line, had a cheerful fire in her drawing-room, and sat by the hearth with her children
tumbling round her, while Corrie, fairer than ever in the blinking fire-light, and Chrissy,
brown and merry, sat on either side of her. She invited the farmer laird to enter that charmed
ring, which, of course, he could not help contrasting with the loneliness and comfortlessness
of Bourhope. But though Bourhope sat next Corrie, a certain coldness crept over the well-arranged
party. He caught himself glancing curiously at the book Chrissy Hunter had been almost burning
her face in reading by the fire-light before he came in. Mrs. Spottiswoode did not much care
for reading aloud, but she took the hint in good part, and called on Chrissy to tell what her
book was about, and so divert Bourhope without wholly monopolizing his attention.

Chrissy was rather shy at first. She never told stories freely away from home; but she was
now pressed to do it. After a little, however, she put her own sympathetic humour and pathos
into the wondrous narrative, till she literally held her listeners spell-bound. And no wonder.
Those were the days of Scott's early novels, when they were greatly run after, and the price
of a night's reading was high. Chrissy's cousin "Rob" was a bookseller's apprentice, and his
master, for the purpose of enabling Robbie to share his enthusiasm, would lend the apprentice
an uncut copy. Robbie brought it out to Blackfaulds, and then all would sit up, sick mother
among the rest, to hear them read aloud, till far into the small hours.

Who can tell what that cordial of pure, healthful intellectual diversion may have been, even
to the burdened father and sick mother at Blackfaulds! To Chrissy--the very speaking of it
made her clasp her hands over her knee, and her grey eyes to shine out like stars--as Bourhope
thought to himself.

How suggestively Chrissy discoursed of Glendearg, and the widow Elspeth Glendinning, her two
lads, and Martin and Tib Tacket, and the gentle lady and Mary Avenel. With what breadth, yet
precision, she reproduced pursy Abbot Boniface, devoted Prior Eustace, wild Christie of the
Clinthill, buxom Mysie Hopper, exquisite Sir Percy Shafton, and even tried her hand to some
purpose on the ethereal White Lady. Perhaps Chrissy enjoyed the reading as much as the great
enchanter did the writing. Like great actors, she had an instinctive consciousness of the effect
she produced. Bourhope shouted with laughter when the incorrigible Sir Percy, in the disguise
of the dairywoman, described his routing charge as "the milky mothers of the herd." Corrie
actually glanced in affright at the steaming windows and the door ajar, and pinched Chrissy's
arm when she repeated for the last time the words of the spell:--

    "Thrice to the holly brake--
      Thrice to the well;--
    Wake thee, O wake,
      White Maid of Avenel."

The assembly paid Chrissy the highest compliment an assembly can pay a speaker. They forgot
their schemes, their anxieties, themselves even, to fasten their eyes and hearts on the brown
girl--the book dropping from her hand, but the story written so graphically on her memory.
Corrie was the first to recover herself. "Oh dear!" she cried, "I have forgot I was to take
down my hair for Miss Lothian to point it at eight o'clock," and hurried out of the room.

Mrs. Spottiswoode roused herself next, and spoke a few words of acknowledgment to Chrissy.
"Upon my word, Chrissy, your recital has been quite as good as the play. We are much obliged
to you. I am afraid your throat must be sore; but stay, I have some of the theatre oranges
here. No, bairns, you are not to have any; it is far too late for you to be up. Dear me; I
believe you have been listening to Chrissy's story like the rest of us!" But Mrs. Spottiswoode
was not under any apprehension about the success of Chrissy's reading. Mrs. Spottiswoode proved
this by immediately leaving Chrissy tête-à-tête with Bourhope while she went to put the children
to bed, and see if Mr. Spottiswoode, who was doing a quiet turn of business in his office,
would have a game of cards before supper. She had really never heard of a girl being married
simply for her tongue's sake! She perhaps knew the line in the song too--

    "Very few marry for talking,"

and had found its truth in her own experience, for she was a shrewd, observant woman.

Bourhope, it should be understood, was longest subjected to the influence of Chrissy's story-telling
power. Indeed, when he did somewhat recover from it, his fancy created fine visions of what
it would be to have such a storyteller at Bourhope during the long, dark nights of winter and
the endless days of summer. Bourhope was no ignoramus. He had some acquaintance with "Winter's
Tales" and summer pastorals, but his reading was bald and tame to this inspiration. He thought
to himself it would really be as good as a company of players purely for his own behoof, without
any of the disadvantages. He stammered a little in expressing the debt he owed to Chrissy,
and she could only eagerly reply by saying, "Not to me, not to me the praise, Mr. Spottiswoode,
but to the great unknown. Oh! I would like to know him."

Bourhope was stimulated to do at once what he was sure to do ultimately: he presented his hospitable
entertainers with a box at the play. No doubt it was a great delight to Chrissy; for it was
in the days when actors were respectable artists and play-going was still universal. Chrissy
in her freshness enjoyed the provincials as well as if they had been first-rate--took the good
and left the bad, and sat quite entranced.

Bourhope, although he was decidedly intellectual for his calling, watched Chrissy rather than
the stage. He read the feeling of the moment reflected in her sagacious yet sensitive face.
Once he turned round and tried the same experiment with Corrie. He might as well have expected
to borrow a living soul from well-moulded stucco or marble. He now realized in a more lively
manner than ever, that geese may look fair and white and soft and shapely as swans till they
expose their waddling. He tried in church the process he had learned at the play, and, it must
be confessed, not without effect--Chrissy's expression giving a fair notion of the good Priorton
minister's earnestness and eloquence.

But at length Chrissy, aware of the liberty Bourhope took in thus making her his study, got
restless and troubled in her sound head and warm heart. She was no fool in her simplicity.
She knew that Bourhope did not in any sense belong to Mrs. Spottiswoode and Corrie, and she
had shrewdly suspected of late that their anticipated arrangements would not be carried out.
She could not help occasionally turning over in her mind the circumstance that Cecilia was
very plain, but that depressed Mortimer Delville nevertheless bestowed his heart on her, though
the gift, like her fortune, was disastrous to Cecilia for many a long day. Chrissy thought
that if Bourhope were independent and original enough to like her--to love her--he was his
own master; there was nothing between him and his inclination save her inclination and her
father and mother's will. And there was little doubt about father and mother's will with respect
to a man so worthy, so unexceptionable, and so well endowed as Bourhope.

Nor was there anything like duty to the Spottiswoodes to stand between Bourhope and Chrissy.
But still Chrissy's nice sense of honour was disturbed, for had she not a guess that a very
different result had been expected? Nay, she had even a half-comical notion that she herself
had been expressly selected as a companion to Corrie Hunter during the gaieties of the yeomanry
weeks, because she would also prove a sort of harmless foil.

A dream of love was a grand shock to Chrissy's quiet life, making wild yet plaintive music,
like all nature's true harmonies, within her, and filling her mind with tremulous light which
glorified every object, and was fain even to dazzle herself. It was not unnatural that Bourhope
should excite such a dream. But Chrissy was not completely dazzled. It was only a dream as
yet, and she would be the mistress of her dream; it should not be the mistress of her. So she
resolved, showing herself a reasonable, thoughtful, conscientious woman, as well as a loving,
fairly proportioned, and lovely human spirit.

Chrissy retained all her sober senses. She recollected what was due both to the hero and to
the others concerned. She was neither a weak victim, nor a headstrong, arrogant, malicious
conqueror. Like all genuine women, she struggled against yielding herself without her due--without
a certainty that there was no irreversible mistake in the matter. She was not a girl to get
love-sick at the first bout, nor one to run even at a worthy lover's beckoning, though she
would sacrifice much, and do it proudly, joyously, for true affection, when once it had confessed
itself. So she shrank from Bourhope, slipped away from, and managed to avoid him. He was puzzled
and vexed, and almost exasperated by doubts as to whether she cared for or wished to accept
his notice and regards. Little brown Chrissy taught the bold Yeoman a lesson in her own quiet
way. She slowly forced upon him the conviction that any gifts or attainments of his--the prosperous,
cultivated farmer laird--were as dross compared with the genius and acquirements of Chrissy
Hunter, whom many short-sighted men called insignificant and plain amid the poverty and cares
of Blackfaulds. Bourhope was not radically mercenary: he had no certainty that his superiority
in worldly estate would secure the strange good upon which he set his heart, and he was at
once stimulated and incensed by her indifference to his advances. So he had no communication
with Chrissy, apart from a demure interchange of words in general conversation, for three days
before the grand review and the ball, except in a single incident of the pipe-claying of his belts.

The gentlemen of the old yeomanry who had not servants to do it for them, did their own pipe-claying,
and might generally be seen doing it very indifferently to the accompaniment of private whistling
or social bawling to each other over adjacent walls in the back courts and greens of Priorton.
Bourhope was one day doing his rather gloomily in the back court, and succeeding very ill,
when Chrissy, who saw him from a window, could endure it no longer. Chrissy was not what most
intellectual women are described as being--an abstracted, scared being, with two left hands.
The exigency of her situation as eldest daughter at Blackfaulds had rendered her as handy as
other girls, and only unlike them in being a great deal more fertile in resource. How could
such a woman stand and see Bourhope destroying his accoutrements, and in danger of smearing
himself from head to foot with pipe-clay? Chrissy came tripping out, and addressed him with
some sharpness--"That is not right, Mr. Spottiswoode; you will never whiten your belt in that
way, you will only soil the rest of your clothes. I watched the old sergeant doing it next-door
for Major Christison. Look here:" and she took the article out of his hands, and proceeded
smartly to clean it. Poor Bourhope bowed to her empire, though he would much rather their positions
had been reversed: he would rather a thousand times have brushed Chrissy's shoes than that
she should clean his belt. She was gone again the moment she had directed him. A portion of
his belt was now as white as snow; but nothing would have induced her to stay.

Bourhope was new to the humiliations as well as the triumphs of love--that extreme ordeal through
which even tolerably wise and sincere spirits must pass before they can unite in a strictness
of union deserving the name. He was not exactly grateful for the good suggestion; indeed, he
had a little fight against Chrissy in his own breast just then. He told himself it was all
a whim, he did not really care for the girl--one of a large family in embarrassed circumstances.
No, it would be absurd to fall in love with a little coffee-coloured girl whose one shoulder
was a fraction of an inch further out than the other. He was not compelled to marry either
Corrie or Chrissy--not he! Poeh! he was not yet half through with his bachelor days. He would
look about a little longer, enjoy himself a little more. At the word enjoyment Bourhope stopped
short, as if he had caught himself tripping. If Chrissy Hunter was ugly, she was an ugly fairy.
She was his fate, indeed; he would never see her like again, and he would be a lost and wrecked
man without her.

IV.--THE BALL, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

The review and the ball were still in store. Bourhope would not be beaten with that double
shot in reserve. It would go hard with the brown, curly, independent laird if he were beaten,
for already he was shaken more in his pride and confidence than he ever thought to be.

The review, for which all the drilling had been undertaken, went off without serious effect
on the contesting parties. The only thing was, that Bourhope was so disturbed and so distracted
in his mind that he could not attend to orders, and lost his character as a yeoman, and all
chance of being future fugleman to his corps. And this, although the Major had said, when the
drills began, that there was not a finer man or more promising dragoon than Bourhope in the
regiment.

Chrissy's bright, tranquil satisfaction in contemplating, from the box of Mrs. Spottiswoode's
phaeton, the stand of county ladies, with their gorgeousness and grace, was decidedly impaired.
The review, with its tramping and halting, its squares and files, its shouting leaders, galloping
aides-de-camp, flashing swords and waving plumes, was certainly very fine. All the rest of
Priorton said so and proved so, for they stood or sat for a whole day witnessing it, under
a scorching sun, on foot, and in every description of vehicle from a corn-cart to a coroneted
carriage. Yes, the review was very fine to the mass; but it was only a confused, hollow, agitating
play to Chrissy as to Bourhope. Still she lost sight of the grand general rank and file, by
concentrating her regard on one little scarlet dot. It was to her a play with its heart a-wanting,
and yet the whirl and movement were welcome for a moment as substitutes for that heart.

The ball remained, and Bourhope was resolute it should settle the question for him. It was
the commendable fashion at Priorton that no young lady should refuse to dance with an acquaintance
without the excuse of a previous engagement, under the penalty of having to sit the rest of
the night. Bourhope would get Chrissy to himself that night (balls were of some use, after
all, he thought), and have an opportunity of hearing a terribly decisive word, and of getting
a reason for that word too, should it prove unfavourable. In short, he would storm the fortress,
and beat down its faltering guard then or never.

Others besides Bourhope had determined on making the ball a theatre of explanations. Mrs. Spottiswoode
was not pleased with the aspect of things as between Bourhope and Corrie. Their affair made
no advance, and the ball was the conclusion of the yeomanry weeks. The yeomen were already
to all intents and purposes disbanded, and about to return, like Cincinnatus, to their reaping-hooks.
Corrie was evidently not contented. She was listless and a little peevish, unless when in the
company of other yeomen than Bourhope--a rare thing with Corrie, who was really a very harmless
girl. But she looked elegant in her ball dress, and had always a train of admirers on such
occasions. And then, of course, many men needed the spur of jealousy to induce them to take
the bold leap of matrimony. Chrissy, too, had her own fears and doubts about this ball. Bourhope
hitherto had only pursued her, if he had pursued her, in rather a secret manner. She would
now see how he would treat her on a public occasion. His conduct would then be marked and conspicuous,
and even Mrs. Spottiswoode's and Corrie's eyes would be opened to it. Then, again, he would
have an opportunity of contrasting her personally with all the girls about Priorton. Chrissy
gazed wistfully into the glass as she fastened her yellow scrimp old white frock, and sighed.
But she did not look so much amiss as she supposed: she was young, slight, and full of subtle
character. And with her scarlet coral beads twisted among her dark little turret curls and
bows, there was piquancy and attraction in Chrissy. But her first purely disinterested and
unbounded pleasure in the gaiety was grievously chequered, and it was to be feared the account
she would carry home of her first ball to expectant Blackfaulds would be disappointing.

There were only two chaises in repair in Priorton, to convey the whole townspeople in rotation
to the ball. It was thus unavoidable that some should be very early, as well as some very late.
Mr. Spottiswoode, as Provost, was of course among the first after the Colonel and his lady,
old country people, who stood arm-in-arm, bluff and bland, under the evergreens over the door,
and shook hands with everybody, great and small--a family of pretty girls meanwhile laughing
behind them.

Mrs. Spottiswoode wore a splendid bunch of white feathers tipped with straw-colour in her blue
gauze turban. Even Chrissy's dazed eyes noticed that, as well as the white ribbon in Provost
Spottiswoode's bottle-green coat, which pointed him out an honorary steward. But how handsome
brown curly Bourhope looked in his red coat!

A strange thought came over Chrissy. She did not wish Corrie, in her white crape and French
ribbons, and so tall and straight and fair, to be blighted in her beauty--no, not for a moment.
But Chrissy was cruel enough to cherish a passing wish that, by some instantaneous transformation,
Bourhope might be pitted with smallpox, or scarred with gunpowder, or have premature age brought
upon him as with the wave of a wand--the soul within being left unchanged, however.

Mrs. Spottiswoode, unlike Chrissy, was quite alive to the practical. She remarked everything
with keen eyes, and determined now to be at the bottom of the business. She should either go
in and win triumphantly, or take a sudden tack and sail away with flying colours, as if she
had never entertained the most distant intention of coming to close quarters, and thus give
the impression that she never had any intention of promoting a match between Bourhope and Corrie.

Mrs. Spottiswoode thought Bourhope looked as if he were going to do something desperate. His
first blunder had been to hand, or rather lift, Chrissy into the chaise instead of Corrie,
at starting from their own door. He repeated the unaccountable blunder at the County Rooms,
which compelled him to take Chrissy into the ball-room; and while Chrissy was still gazing
in bewilderment and admiration at the evergreens and chalked floors, and talking, laughing
couples, Mrs. Spottiswoode could scarcely believe her ears when she distinctly heard Bourhope
ask Chrissy's hand for the first dance, saying that he would have engaged it before if he had
got the opportunity.

Now Mrs. Spottiswoode had no doubt that Bourhope would solicit her sister Corrie for this dance,
and therefore she had peremptorily forbidden Corrie to engage herself in any other quarter,
even when Corrie had demurred at the certainty of the arrangement. It was very odd of Bourhope,
unless he thought Chrissy would have no chance of any other partner, and wanted to spare a
plain little girl's mortification at the very commencement of the evening. "That must be it,"
Mrs. Spottiswoode said to herself, and was consoled by Corrie's hand being immediately requested
for the Colonel's nephew.

The Colonel's wife opened the ball with the most popular and oldest private for partner, and,
of course, Chrissy and Bourhope stood below Corrie and the Colonel's nephew. But Bourhope and
Chrissy did not mind Corrie's precedence, and were talking to each other quite intimately.
Bourhope was forgetting the figure and bending across to Chrissy, though he was saying nothing
particular, and speaking out quite loud. But he looked engrossed and excited. If it had been
any other girl but Chrissy, Mrs. Spottiswoode would have called it a flirtation, and more than
a flirtation. Chrissy looked well in her shabby dress, almost pretty indeed, in the new atmosphere.
Mrs. Spottiswoode was aggrieved, disgusted in the first instance, but she would not just yet
believe such an incredible contradiction to her well-laid scheme. Match-making involves so
many parties, there are such wheels within wheels of calculation and resource. She glanced
at Corrie, who was dancing very complacently with the Colonel's nephew, and exchanging passing
words with yeomen who tried to get speech with her. In her white crape, and teeth as white,
and her dimples, she was safe, heart-whole and prosperous--a beauty who might pick and choose
a suitable husband, even though Bourhope, infatuated, threw himself away.

Mrs. Spottiswoode gave a sigh of relief. Failure now would only be comparative.

The dance being over, Bourhope sat down beside Chrissy. No, she turned her head the other way,
and he rose up and strolled through the room. But he was soon back in his old place.

He wanted to dance with Chrissy again. She hesitated, grew nervous, and cast her eyes on Mrs.
Spottiswoode. He went straight to their hostess, and said, "Mrs. Spottiswoode, you have no
objection that I dance this dance again with Miss Chrissy Hunter?"

"None in the world, Bourhope," said Mrs. Spottiswoode, with a spasmodic smile, "why should I?"

"Why, indeed?" he returned, "or every dance? May I tell her so?"

"That is as she and you may agree. You are aware that would appear something serious," she
said, trying to laugh.

"I will take the consequences," he significantly assured her, and went back and told Chrissy
so, and then he drove her to her inmost citadel, and beat her there.

Other eyes than Mrs. Spottiswoode's were attracted to the pair. Half-a-dozen matrons' heads
went wagging significantly; girls whispered and tittered; gentlemen opened their eyes, shaped
their mouths as if about to whistle, strolled up and took their observations of the pre-occupied,
unconscious couple quite coolly, and then speculated and gossiped.

Mrs. Spottiswoode read these comments as well as what had gone before, and was ready with her
magnanimity. It was this which constituted her a truly able tactician. She shifted her tack
before the shout of malicious exultation and ridicule could have been raised at her discomfiture.
By a dexterous sleight of hand, she shuffled her cards and altered her suit. In a moment Mrs.
Spottiswoode was winking and nodding with the matrons interested in the news of the night.
She arrested a good-humoured yeoman, and crossed the room on his arm, to express and receive
congratulations. "You have found out the secret? Foolish fellow, Bourhope; he cannot conceal
his feelings, though their display is premature. I must scold him for exposing himself and
her. Poor dear! she is not accustomed to this sort of thing. But I am so delighted--so nice,
isn't it? Such an excellent marriage for my cousin Chrissy--a good girl, a very clever girl--such
a fortunate beginning for the Blackfaulds family. I often say the first marriage makes or mars
a family of girls. It is so lucky that I invited Chrissy for the yeomanry weeks this summer.
It is a great deal better than if it had been Corrie, because Corrie can wait," with a careless
wave of her hand in the direction in which Corrie moved, deliberately followed by her train.
"Corrie has too many admirers to make up her mind speedily, yet she takes it all very quietly.
But this is so appropriate--Mr. Spottiswoode's cousin and my cousin--nobody could have planned
it better."

She turned round, and heard a blunt booby of a farmer speaking out his mind. She at once took
him up--"You would not have thought it? You cannot comprehend what has come over Bourhope,
or what he sees in that thin, yellow mite, Miss Hunter of Blackfaulds, even though she were
as good as a saint, and as wise as the Queen of Sheba? Oh! come, Balquin, you do not allow
sufficient latitude to goodness and cleverness. I tell you, Bourhope has neither eyes nor ears
for anybody but that mite; he counts his colourless daisy far before the gayest painted face.
He knows that we are remarking on them now, and he is holding his head as high as if he had
sought and won a queen. He is right; she will prove a sensible, cheerful wife to him. Bourhope
will have the cleverest, best wife in the county, for all your swaggering. And that is something,
when a man comes to be old and has an old wife like me. Not old, Balquin? away with you. I
wish the Provost heard you. Do you think to flatter me because I am in spirits about my cousin's
match? No, it is not lost that a friend gets, Balquin."

The public of Priorton did not know whether most to admire Mrs. Spottiswoode's diplomacy, or
this rare instance of poetic justice.

DIANA.

I.--AN UNDERTAKING.

"He will not last ten years' time, Die; and then you will be rich and independent--the lady
of Ashpound."

"Don't mention it, sir, unless you mean to tempt me to commit murder next."

The speakers in the old drawing-room of Newton-le-Moor, in the south country, thirty years
ago, were Mr. Baring and his daughter Diana. He was a worn and dissipated-looking man, with
a half-arrogant, half-base air--implying a whole old man of the world of a bad day gone by.
He was flawless in his carving, his card-dealing, his frock-coat and tie: corrupt to the core
in almost everything else. She was a tall, full-formed woman, in her flower and prime, with
a fine carriage and gait, which rendered it a matter of indifference that she wore as plain
and simple a muslin gown as a lady could wear. Her hair was of the pale, delicate, neutral
tint which the French call blond-cendré, a little too ashen-hued for most complexions. It was
not wavy hair, but very soft and pure, as if no atmosphere of turmoil and taint had ruffled
or soiled it. It made Miss Baring's fresh, clear complexion a shade too bright in the carmine,
which took off the greyness of the flaxen hue and relieved the cold and steel-like gleam in
her grey-blue eyes. The features of the face were fine and regular, like Mr. Baring's; but
instead of the handsome, aristocratic, relentless aquiline nose, which was the most striking
feature in the gentleman's face, the lady's was a modified Greek nose, broad enough at the
base slightly to spoil its beauty but largely to increase its intellectual significance.

The "he" of the conversation, who was not to last ten years, was Gervase Norgate of Ashpound--a
poor, impulsive, weak-willed, fast-living young neighbouring squire. Unluckily for himself,
he had been early left his own master, and had ridden post-haste to the dogs ever since. Suddenly
he had taken it into his muddled head to pull up in his career, and, if need be, to chain and
padlock, hedge and barricade himself with a wife and family, before Ashpound should be swallowed
up by hungry creditors, and he had hurried himself into a forlorn grave.

Mr. Baring was willing to let him off as a pigeon to be plucked, and to use him instead as
an unconscious decoy-duck in getting rid of Die; not that Mr. Baring had an unnatural aversion
to his daughter, but that she was a drag upon him both for the present and the future. But
Die, after one night's reflection, accepted Gervase Norgate to escape worse evil, having neither
brother nor sister nor friend who would aid her. What Die did on that night; whether she merely
"slept on the proposal," like a wise, well-in-hand, self-controlled woman; whether she outwatched
the moon, plying herself with arguments, forcing herself to overcome her deadly sick loathing
at the leap, nobody knows. If Die had learned anything worth retaining, in the shifts and shams
of her life, it was perfect reticence. The result was that Gervase Norgate was coming to woo
as an accepted wooer at Newton-le-Moor on the evening of the summer day when Mr. Baring confidentially
assured the bride that the bridegroom would not last ten years.

Newton-le-Moor was what its name suggested, an estate won from the southern moors by other
and worthier adventurers than John Fitzwilliam Baring. In his hands the place was drifting
back to the original moorland. Everything, except the stables and kennels, had been suffered
to go to wreck. The house was of weather-streaked white stone, in part staring and pretentious,
in part prodigal and vagabondish. The drawing-room of Newton-le-Moor, like most drawing-rooms,
was a commentary--more or less complete--on the life and character of its owner. If it did
not represent all his practices and pursuits--his repudiation of just claims and obligations;
his sleeping till noon and waking till morning, and faring sumptuously at his neighbours' expense;
his fleecing of every victim who crossed his false door by borrowing, bill-discounting, horse-dealing,
betting, billiards, long and short whist, and brandy-drinking--at least it painted one little
peculiarity of John Fitzwilliam Baring very fairly. Not one accessory which could contribute
to his comfort and enjoyment was wanting, from the exceedingly easy chair for his back, to
the alabaster lamp for his eyes, and the silver pastile-burner for his nose. On the other hand,
there was scarcely an article that had no special reference to John Fitzwilliam Baring which
was not in the last stages of decay.

On this evening, before Gervase Norgate came up with her father from the dining-room, where
he might sit too long, considering who was waiting him, Diana had her tea-table arranged, and
sat down behind it as if to do its honours. She showed no symptoms of discomposure, unless
that her rose-colour flickered and flushed in a manner that was not natural to it; yet she
had so entrenched herself, that when Gervase Norgate entered, with an irregular, unsteady step,
although as nearly sober as he ever was, she could not be touched except at arm's length, and
by the tips of the fingers, over which he bowed.

Mr. Norgate was not in his flower and prime. He was not above a year or two Miss Baring's senior;
but his whole being had suffered eclipse before it reached maturity, though he still showed
some remains of what might have been worth preserving. His physique had been what no word interprets
so fitly as the Scotch word "braw,"--not huge and unwieldy in size and strength, but manly
and comely. His shoulders were still broad, though they slouched. His hand and arm were still
a model, somewhat wasted and shaken, of what in muscular power and lightness a hand and arm
should be. His dark brown hair, dry and scanty at five-and-twenty, still fell in waves. His
eyes, dulled and dimmed, were still the kindly, magnanimous, forgiving blue eyes. His mouth
had always been a heavy mouth (better at all events than a mean mouth); it was coarse now,
but with strange lines of gentleness breaking in upon its tendency to violence. But his carriage,
though he was pre-eminently a well-made man, was the attribute most spoilt about him. He had
the blustering yet shuffling bearing of a man who is fully convinced that he has gone to the
dogs, and it did not alter its expression that he was making an effort to quit his canine associates.
Perhaps the effort required to be confirmed before its effects could be seen; perhaps he was
not setting about the right way of redeeming himself, after all.

Mr. Baring was pompous in his high breeding--the first gentleman in Europe was pompous also.
Mr. Baring brought forward his intended son-in-law as his young friend, and alluded pointedly
to the summer evening and its event as an "auspicious occasion." But he was cut short by a
frosty glance from Die, and a brief remark that she was not sure that this evening and its
party were more auspicious than usual.

