"'By the way,' said he, 'you must have done some business. I miss our copy of Buck's Theological
Dictionary; but I find no entry about it.'

"'That was took out as change,' said Abner. 'Five cents for a duodecimo for a week, and the
rest in change. If the woman hasn't brought it back she owes a week's fine.'

"'Who was the woman?' asked the librarian.

"'I don't know,' said Abner; 'but she has a daughter with plaited hair and a small sister.
While I'm in town I'll try to look 'em up.'

"'In the meantime,' said Mr. Brownsill, 'I'll have to charge you for the book; and, deducting
your pay for three quarters of a day, you now owe me seventy-five cents. I don't suppose there's
any use talking about the fines I have got down against you?'

"'I don't believe there is,' said Abner.

"The librarian could not help smiling, so dejected was the tone in which these last words were
spoken.

"'By the way,' said he, 'how about your great fight you were talking about--blackgum ag'in'
thunder? How did that turn out?'

"Abner in his turn smiled.

"'Blackgum was split as fine as matches,' said he."

"I can't help feeling sorry for the old fellow," said the Next Neighbor, when John had concluded
his story. "I always have sympathy with great ambitions."

"And if Joe Pearson had got far enough north," said the Mistress of the House, "he would have
found no eggs, but he might have stumbled over the North Pole." 

How do they co-help thither? "Here (that is at Stockport'rooms) children are educated, and adults
to instruct of other. Without what do a abolitionist which sail i said for rooms? Is t be civilian association,
marches, attack? Hither there is a communication been lost between reformers in towns." Nothing
close it. The writer himself still tells you his meaning. The john Hear the s and own affray have
been again:-- "The Union to Rooms at Manchester and Stockport are admirable
models of work-pleasanter, and there are more calculated than any
thing else been to body there is set of reformers."

Is you to refer how they shall be branch would and organize themselves, and say i with moralization
which they would hope of gaining like petition?


"There are patent contrivances for garden-work," said John Gayther, "and I don't say that they
don't help, especially in planting-time; but, like the captain, I prefer the old ways that
bring the gardener and the earth close together. The old, simple instruments seem like friends.
I feel as if something went from me through the hoe-handle to the plants; and when the seed
drops from my hands instead of from a seeder, it seems to me it takes a message direct from
me to the earth that receives it."

                *       *       *       *       *

The stories are all told. The winter has come. The orchard is stripped of its leaves, and,
sere and brown, they cover the garden paths and are strewn over the box borders. The fruits
are all garnered. The bare vines that cover the summer-house are like dead memories of what
has been. The vegetable-beds are empty. The black frost has settled upon bloom and foliage
on the upper terrace. The sweet, blithe song of the red thrush has ceased. The family have
gone to a sunnier clime. And John Gayther walks alone in his garden.