As was pointed out in the chapter on definitions, each of these various groups has a customary
center for coming together. But owing to the fact that each interest has grown largely without
reference to the others, their centers of activity have been determined largely by conditions
of local convenience. Now, these centers may have been well adapted to the times when they
were established, but as time has passed shifts of population have come, road improvements
have been made, and new interests developed so that the traditional centers not only tend to
lessen community solidarity but also tend to prevent its accomplishment. One of the first tasks
of the community leader is to make a study of his proposed field of activity for the purpose
of determining what are the present centers of group interests, what changes have taken place
in rural life conditions which make reorganization and readjustment of centers desirable, and
then, in consultation with representatives of the community, to organize a community plan toward
ward which the entire community may work. City planning has long been an accepted principle
for service in the more progressive larger centers. The time has come when plans for the most
efficient organization of village and open country communities should be made. It is interesting
to note that already in many sections of the United States the movement toward community planning
has made considerable progress. It is now generally recognized that with rare exceptions the
village rather than an open country point is the normal basis for such a plan. In accordance
with this, movements are now under way to displace the traditional township boundaries created
as political limits for government and to replace them by boundaries conforming as closely
as possible with those limits that careful investigation indicates are now and probably will
continue to be the most representative of what the future limits of rural communities will
be. In like manner educational work is being reorganized to include the community territory
instead of the political areas inherited from the methods of survey adopted under the ordinance
of 1787. As this movement continues, doubtless farm bureaus, and even religious agencies, will
try to adapt themselves as far as possible to the program of other agencies.

The breakdown of social life in the open country and the very questionable forms it often takes
in the villages has long been the nightmare of the minister of the gospel who stands for a
high ethical plane of social life. The church, with its Ladies' Aid, its young people's societies,
its occasional men's clubs, fails to reach more than a very limited number of those living
in the open country or in the village. The lack of a definite, well-organized social program
results in all kinds of association often anti-social and lowering of the moral fiber of the
entire group. It is unnecessary to go into the sordid details of moral conditions existing
among both young and old in many village communities. The pastor with a program of absentee
service consisting of an occasional sermon and holding a Sunday school finds his efforts continually
nullified by more powerful social and recreational impulses expressing themselves in ways recognized
as morally deteriorating. When a plan for ultimate centralization of wholesome and legitimate
community interest has been made it is the minister's task to organize a plan for bringing
to the community an abundance of wholesome recreational life. The traditional plan has been
to preach against dancing and card playing. Such preaching has more often alienated the young
people from the church than it has attracted them to religious life. The modern plan is to
overcome evil with good; that is, to provide such a program of unquestioned recreation that
the evil will die of itself.

