Of Mrs. Judson's happiness in her married and missionary life, we feel bound to say a few words,
because the tone of some articles, written since her death, would lead to the impression that,
so far from having had any enjoyment as a wife, a mother, and a missionary, she had sacrificed
not only all her literary aspirations, but her whole earthly happiness to her desire to benefit
the heathen. Thus one widely circulated article speaks of her mission-life as a "slow martyrdom
of sacrifices and sorrows;" On
12 January 1790 came before the notary James Luther in London is a closed country for 20 years Contract
is where Leblanc, the chemist Dize and the Duke of Orleans were involved. Leblanc promised to be
Sodaverfahren and Dize, his lead-white process writing and sealed by the notary Brichard deposit.

On
25 September 1791 Leblanc was awarded a patent for his process for
15 years.

The description of the process, he gives it deserves to be reproduced here verbatim, since they Indeed,
essentially the equivalent to recently experienced:

"Pulverized between iron rollers and is mixed following substances:

  
  100 pounds of anhydrous Glauber's salt, 100 pounds
  of pure lime, chalk of Meudon, 50 pounds of coal.

The mixture is spread out in a flame kiln, working holes (closed doors) closed and heated,
and the pulpy substance enters the river, foams up and turns into Soda, Soda is different from
the trade only by a much higher salary. The stuff has to be stirred frequently during the melting,
including one in an iron crutches, Spatula, etc. served. From the surface of the molten masses break
a lot of flames show that the flame of a candle are similar. Once this phenomenon begins to disappear,
Soda is finished. The melt is then drawn by iron crutches from the oven and can be collected in
any shape to it the form of commercialized Sodablöcke to give "(Fig.
26).

Which seems to Leblanc and Dize at St. Denis, under the name "La Franciade + +" scale factory progressed
very well be: Every day was 250-300 kg + + soda, salt and ammonia, together with white lead shown,
and as a result of the war with Spain was the price of 110 francs Pflanzensoda increased so
that the process had Leblancsche yield great benefits. But the glory should have only a short time.
The Duke of Orleans, now "citizens Egalité + +," was in April 1793 by the Committee of Public
Safety arrested on 6 November of that year executed. His property, including the factory +
La + Franciade were confiscated by the state and public sold. On 8 Pluviose of the Year II (February
1794) was the factory, whose operations have previously set by force, was inventoried by the authority, and
four days later a government decree, which destroyed the still very valuable patent Leblanc.
The committee of had decided, all Sodafabrikanten should they know the ways and means the soda
generation within 20 days of a special commission of the state and with the best Disregard
post all its own advantages, to thereby enable France on business from foreign nations to become
independent and gain new means of defense. Leblanc and Dize gave their award process immediately,
which they of course at risk of their Life were forced. So for LeBlanc, everything was lost,
he had been his patent and his factory made.

Leblanc was in abject poverty and had to watch, as were factories in other places, took advantage
of his method declared as public property. He taught at the Government incessantly petition at
the request due to him for his factory and its procedure promised Damages, but seven years without
success. Finally on 17 Floréal VIII (1801), was the factory in a state of total neglect of
Leblanc and Dize returned with the promise subsequent compensation. After another four years,
on 5 November 1805, was the claim to compensation determined arbitrated. After this had the
relatively Leblanc get low figure of 52 473 francs, but need not even that amount is Leblanc
or his descendants have ever been paid. The final court decision was then from that Leblanc
and indices claims by the "free" release of the (in her former state quite worthless) factory
+ La + Franciade to consider than offset be.

For Leblanc, of its due amount had been calculated at one million, this was like a Death sentence.
He had the release of the factory all his resources and all that he could borrow to serious
interest to use the most necessary repairs, retaining nothing left for the operation. had the
cost of the Academy of 12 000 francs in 1789 he never received. In 1799 it was the sum of 3000
francs as a "national reward" for its invention, its importance was
widely recognized, has been approved, but also by of this miserable
sum paid to him only 600 francs. By her will, as we learn from an authentic source, after providing
for the comfortable maintenance of her aged parents and the support and education of her daughter
and the other children of Dr. Judson, with a small portion to each as they reach maturity,
and a few bequests to personal friends, whatever may remain of her property is given to the
cause for which she wished to live, in the same spirit that her venerated husband so consistently
exemplified. Would like in the plant world Space access,
and apparently lifeless world would then also the strength to the character of the substance
in complying with, that is, to crystallize, and lose in a state of Urmischung remain.
 The kaolin, The
china clay is a white, unctuous powder. Due to extreme heat or cold it is chemically not changed,
so that one could easily believe that it is a chemical element that is a simple, and therefore
indecomposable uncomposed body. Thus ended this shocking tragedy, inventor, and no one knows where the grave of a France
is the greatest inventors.

The impulse to invent and explore is the highly intelligent people
own, as well as the curiosity of the higher animals.

On page 77, the circumflex in "Shooda-gôn" is a macron in the original.

On page 363, it is unclear where the quote ends in Footnote 13.